		OF LUCIE AMES MEAD.

	Dear Friends: The year 1907 promises
to be, one of the most important in the
world’s history. The Hague Conference,
which will probably be held in a few
months, will present an opportunity to
lessen the misery and waste of the world
such as all the charities of the earth com-
bined could not accomplish. Few have
yet awakened to the stupendous signific-
ance and far-reaching possibilities of the
recommendations for the subjects to be
brought before the Hague Conference,
made by the Interparliamentary Union
in the summer of 1906, at its meeting in
London. This body of statesmen from
the parliaments of the world recommend-
ed (1) the establishment of a periodic Ad-
visory World Congress, (2) the proportio-
nate limitation of armaments, (3) a gene-
ral arbitration treaty, (4) the protection
of private property at sea from capture in
time of war, (5) investigation by an im-
partial committee of difficulties between
nations, not otherwise settled, before hos-
tilities can be declared.
	If these recommendations were acccent-
ed by the Hague Conference and ratified
by the majority of the forty nations re-
presented in it, the machinery for the
world’s international business would be
ready, and the beginning of the end of
international war would be achieved. In
a few years the scope of arbitration would


be enlarged, international law would be
codified, and billions of dollars would be
saved for constructive purposes.
	It is of the utmost consequence that
the 80,000,000 Americans whose business
and, perhaps, whose lives are to be affect-
ed by these matters should not be dumb,
but should bring public sentiment to bear
on the State department, which is to be
the mouthpiece of the nation in this mat-
ter. I therefore recommend that indivi-
dually, and collectively, in all our organ-
izations, we should send brief letters to
Hon. Elihu Root, Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C., expressing the strong
desire that our government approve the
recommendations of the Interparliamen-
tary Union.


