IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved sister.
		MARGARET PIERCE WHITESIDES YOUNG,
Widow of President Brigham Young, one of Utah’s
loved and respected Pioneers, and a member of the
first organization of the Relief Society, who de-
parted this life January 16, 1907.
	WHEREAS Sister Young has been closely con-
nected with the Emerson Ward Relief Society—
				Resolved that—
	We, the officers and members desire to express
our appreciation of her example, integrity and
worth as a faithful mother in Israel, and wish to
extend our sincere sympathy to the family in their
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased and be placed
on our records, and one sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication.
	“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life.
		Faithful as daughter, mother, woman and wife;
	Crowned with celestial glory thou shall shine
		’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
					BARBARA M. JONES,
					CICILY C. BARTON,
					SARAH T. SOUTH,
					PRUDENCE BROWN,
								Committee.


To the memory of Cyrena Dustin Merrill, who
departed this life February 3, 1907. Deceased was
born in New York, she went to Ohio when but a
child, and was converted to the gospel by hearing
an Elder sing the Hymn “An angel came down
from the mansions of glory,” Being naturally spir-
tual minded, and possessed by strong religious
convictions, she soon joined the church leaving
all, for the sake of the gospel and gathered with
the Saints at Far West.
	Sister Merrill was a member of the First Relief
Society organization in Nauvoo, and at the or-
ganization of the St. Joseph Stake, June 1883, she
was chosen first counselor to the President Sister
Willmirth East and labored in that position until
January 1898, when she was released on account
of her age, but her interest was still in the Relief
Society work. On January 6, 1907, it being her
90th birthday, members of the Relief Society Stake
Board with a few very intimate friends and rela-
tives assembled at her home, and held a testimony
meeting, she bore a faithful testimony to the truth-
fulness of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith with whom she was personally ac-
quainted. We appreciate her labors and example,
during our association with her. She was a devoted
wife and mother, and we recognize in her a faith-
ful friend whose memory will ever be cherished
by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake.
					ELIZABETH LAYTON.
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE KIMBALL.
							Committee.


Resolutions of Respect on the death of Sister
Delilah King Olsen, wife of Daniel Olsen, and
daughter of Judge King of Millard County, who
departed this life January 5th, 1907; at Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	WHEREAS; Our Father in Heaven, in his infinite
wisdom has called from our midst Sister Olsen,
who, for many years previous to her removal to
Salt Lake City, was a faithful worker in the as-
sociations here; following are the positions which
she has filled with honor, viz:
	President of Fillmore Ward Relief Society, of
Primary, of Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association, Secretary of Millard Stake Relief
Society, Stake President of Primary Association,
and a Teacher in Sunday School.
	She was ever energetic in the performance of
her duties, ever a faithful and true friend and lov-
ing mother, and one whose words were like pearls.
—In many years of close friendship we never
heard a word from her lips that one could censure
She recognized the best in every one, and where
she could not speak words of praise, she held her
peace. Her meekness of spirit won the respect
and love of all who associated with her. We feel
to express our love for her in these few lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister, associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things well,
and say, “Thy will Oh Lord not ours be done.”
	Resolved—that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us, that of being a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved—that we extend our heart felt sympa-
thy to the hereaved children and relatives—that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to them,
a copy be entered on the minute book of Millard
Stake Relief Society and that they be printed in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				ISABELLA E. ROBISON,
			in behalf of Relief Society.


Tribute to the memory of Sister Hannah Single-
ton Wild, who died February 1st, 1907. She was
born in England on the 6th day of April, 1840.
Her parents embraced the gospel in England and
crossed the great waters for America with their 9
months’ old babe. On arriving in America they
journeyed to St. Louis. During their sojourn in
St. Louis an epidemic of cholera broke out and
the mother and sister were taken from the family.
At the age of 14 she with the remainder of the fam-
ily emigrated to Salt Lake City. After spending
the first winter there they came to American Fork
where she has resided continuously. She was
married at the age of 16 to John Singleton by
whom she had 5 children. Her husband died Dec.
24th, 1865. In 1867 she was married to Joseph
Wild by whom 5 more children were added to
her family, 7 of whom survive her. In 1882 she
studied obstetrics under Dr. Romania B. Pratt
in Salt Lake City and from that time until her
death she labored diligently, patiently and faith-


fully among the sick never too weary to attend 
to the numerous calls, made upon her by night or
by day, but always ready to administer to the sick. 
She was the instrument in God’s hand of bringing 
seventeen hundred souls into this world. 
	The lovely white casket which held all that was 
mortal of our beloved sister was covered with 
flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.

