[Column 1]
		THE WOMEN OF ZION.
	The term women of Zion applies to the
sisters in the Church in the larger sense,
and is understood to mean all the women
of the Church, whether connected with
auxiliary organizations or not. It is the
opinion of the very best people in the
Church, that all the sisters should be
actively engaged so far as possible in one
or the other of the associations, that are
helpful in so many ways to women and
children, and we may truthfully say to
the family in all its relations to life. Par-
ticularly is the Relief Society helpful to
our women, as mothers in all their house-
hold duties. The work enters into every
field of usefulness, and we might add of
happiness.
	This society has been in the past very
lightly spoken of, and women who have
devoted their best energies to its estab-
lishment have been ridiculed and sneered
at, but that day is past among sensible
people, because the society and its work
is coming to be better comprehended.
The need of this organization is now very
widely known. It has become a power
for good not only in this land of liberty
and free institutions, but in other lands
afar off and it is growing in favor with
those good women who have received the
Gospel through the teachings of the
Elders, who proclaim it abroad, and
when these sisters are told that the
Prophet Joseph Smith established this
institution for women in his life time
through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,
they can indeed realize that it is some-
thing more than an ordinary association
of women for, benevolent purposes.
When one takes hold of the work in
earnest, then they begin to see more of
its actual benefits and educational ad-
vantages in and along many avenues of
activity, enterprise and development.
	Some of the people think it has been
slow in accomplishing the greater good
that might and ought to have been the
result of so much time and labor, during
all the sixty-five years since it was organ-
zed and that may be true in one sense,
but partly because only a few were really
converted to the idea of its being valu-
able, and again there were the years of
the exodus from Nauvoo, Illinois, (where
the Society was founded) and the jour-
neyings and the many hindrances of mak-
ing permanent homes herein these moun-
tain vales after the long and wearisome
travel over barren and desert lands, with

[Column 2]
all the incidental struggles of everyday
life, that pilgrims such as our people had
to pass through, however patient and
courageous and even ambitious the peo-
ple might be and were, as some of us can
truthfully testify. The wonder is not
that the sisters could not do more, but it
is, that they could do so much and en
dure.
	The Relief Society itself is already a
marvel to those who know what it has
done in its establishment permanently,
after the people had built up some homes,
and towns and settlements here and
there. With the difficulties to be en-
countered and overcome, the sisters, who
have been the promoters of this benevo-
lent work may well congratulate them-
selves on its progress, instead of being
discouraged, that more could not be done.
The officers of the Society and all its ac-
tive members may well be proud of the
success attained. Remember the sisters
are gathered from yarious countries, they
have had to adapt themselves to other
conditions than those they had been ac-
customed to in the lands from which they
came. There were many things to learn,
and looking over the matter carefully, we
must say the sisters have done remark-
ably well, and their labors are deserving
of commendation. There is never a call
made that they do not respond to it will-
ingly and gladly.
	Zion is growing rapidly and the Relief
Society must keep pace with its growth.
Therefore the need of being on the alert
to strengthen and uphold the hands of
those who carry the burden of the work,
whether in wards or stakes and encourage
all who will to come forward and assist
in making the Relief Society not only the
most genuinely useful organization, but
the most attractive. Let the sisters every-
where set forth in unmistakable terms
with eloquence and enthusiasm its bene-
fits and advantages, look upon the day of
meeting as a day of rejoicing and praise.
Sing the songs of Zion with the spirit and
understanding, and greet each other with
words of hope and cheer; make it a de-
lightful occasion, not one to tell of sor-
rows and hardships, but of the great bles-
sings vouchsafed to this people and the
glorious future of this goodly land, if the
people will keep the commandments of
our Father in heaven.
	There is certainly a magnificent future
for this Society all that the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith predicted in his teachings must
be fulfilled, and much more. The half
cannot be told of what it has already done
for the women of Zion in moral and spir-
tual uplifting, and with the more favor-
able conditions that continue to improve
daily, what may we not expect in the near
future from the superior advantages that
will certainly accrue as the natural se-
quence of events that must transpire in
the building up of temples of learning and
of the greatest institutions that must of
necessity be established in the day and
age, now at our very doors in order to
bring about the glory of Zion.
	These things must needs be accomplish-
ed and it will require energy and talent
of no common degree, and in all this even
the redemption of Zion, and the light and
glory of the many cities of the Saints,
woman will have her share of the mighty
work and the Relief Society will be one
of the preparatory stepping stones to the
ultimate triumph of the work of restora-

[Column 3]
tion. Let it not be considered of small
consequence, but make it so admirable
and excellent and withal so select, that all
the noble women of Zion will seek ad-
mittance thereto instead of having to be
urged to enter its ranks.


