[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STARE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine
Stake was held at Lehi, January 25th,
1907, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Notwithstanding the stormy weather
there was a very good attendance of of-
ficers and members.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring welcomed the sisters, and
wished all a happy and prosperous “New
Year.” Felt to thank the officers for their
diligence during the past year. There
have been many sick and you have at-
tended them; also much has been done in
building Tabernacle and Meeting Houses.
President Bathsheba W. Smith had recom-
mended that every sister contribute one
dollar for the erection of the “Woman’s
Building.”
	Six of the wards were reported by the
different presidents showing unity and
progression; the poor are looked after
and there is means to relieve them for
the people donate liberally.
	Duett: Sisters Whitman and Clark.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: “There
is no need to worry about the Relief
Society, it is all right,” and made other
excellent remarks upon sacred subjects.
“Trials are necessary for our advance-

[Column 2]
ment and for the increase of the work.
Let us do our part and be faithful to our
calling.
	Sister Laura Cutler was very pleased
to meet her old associates and fellow
workers, found that Relief Society work
is the same everywhere. Her Stake (Gra-
nite) had taken up the lives of our Presi-
dents and found it created an interest and
brought a good attendance to their meet-
ings. Was thankful that Sister Standring
was able to attend the meetings and give
counsel to the sisters.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Conference reassembled 2 o’clock, Pre-
sident Standring presiding. After the
opening exercises President Standring ex-
pressed her joy and satisfaction at seeing
such a good attendance this afternoon;
thought the sisters were in the line of
their duty. Referred to the remarks of
President Chipman in the forenoon.
	Six of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents.
	Song: “Savior let me walk with Thee.”
Sister Fitten.
	President A. J. Evans desired the moth-
ers to impress upon the minds of the boys
their duty and watch them and guard 
them against all sorts of evil doings and
influences.
	President James H. Clarke thought that
of late a spirit of irreverence was growing
up among our young people, close to the
line of infidelity, not all at once but gradu-
ally. Boys who are born of parents who
have received the holy priesthood cannot
be saved through the faithfulness of their
parents. Urged mothers to look after the
boys and the girls. Our children are no
better than others. You desire to save
yourselves and your children. There are
scoffers among us as there was in the days
of the Savior. Keep the boys under good
influences; send them to good Church
schools if you can. If mother comes up
to pay a little tithing and brings the chil-
dren and allows them to pay a little it will
encourage them that they will honor the
principle of tithing.
	Bishop Gardner (of Lehi) felt to con-
gratulate the Relief Society. These are
the select, they understand their business
and are working at it. It requires stamina
to keep up to our duties. We are visiting
the homes of the people. Let us live our
religion, we cannot live without it.
	Bishop Lewis (of Lehi) said a few words
of commendation for the labors of the
sisters.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock, one of the
Stake Board, made a few remarks on the
importance of the Relief Society work.
Desired to do her duty and magnify her
calling acceptable to the Lord.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt the
speaking and the singing had all been ap-
propriate. We have all the influences we
can combat. Our children are not perfect
because they are born of good parents.
We are blest and strengthened by being
here today. Desired to carry a good in-
fluence wherever she might go.

[Column 3]
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board.
A great responsibility rests upon us, we
must not lose our influence over our chil-
dren. Let us make this a year of im-
provement to all.
	Singing: “Great God attends while Zion
sings.” Prayer by President Rebecca
Standring. Conference adjourned for
three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Secretary.


