TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS.
	My dear blessed sisters of the Relief
Society, there is a subject that weighs
heavily on my mind, and as I think there
are not many of you who are not in some
way interested in the cause, I desire to
commune with you today. I say blessed
sisters, for are we not blest indeed to
have our names enrolled in this grand and
God-given institution, and although we
are scattered far and wide, we have a
medium, in the dear EXPONENT of com-
municating with each other. I do not
remember the organization of the Relief
Society and the first year of its course,
for we were in England at the time, but
from the commencement of their public
meetings the second year, I have watched
the progress until the present time. I
well remember the grand things that were
predicted, and the great work given this
society to perform, and the spirit of it has
remained with me ever since, and been a
great help to me in the duties of life.
And while marvelous things have already
been accomplished the future will eclipse
all. The mission of the Relief Society
will never be finished while there is a
want to relieve, spiritual as well as tem-
poral. I wondered in those early days if
would live to see those glorious times
that had been predicted, and I have re-
joiced greatly, and my eyes have been
filled with happy tears as I have read of
the spread of the Gospel, and the growth
of the Relief Society even unto the is-
lands of the sea. Then rejoice in your
hearts, dear sisters, for your standing in
this great organization, for has not the
Prophet said that it was for the pure in
heart, the virtuous, and none others?
And one of our good brethren has said
that if we were approved of our com-
panions, our family, and our associates,
we were very likely to be approved of our
God. This has been a great comfort to
me as a rule to go by, and I feel like be-
ing very careful not to offend any. And
we read that “another book was opened,”
and sisters when the Relief Society rec-
ords are opened and our names are found
there in good standing it will be a happy
time indeed for us, and I trust we will all
have “something in them to recommend
us.”
	The influence that a Latter-day Saint
can yield is very great, and the humblest
of us, sisters, can find much to do.
	If we look about us with a prayerful
heart and by the help of our Heavenly
Father wonders can be accomplished.
And O, let us ever be found among the
“faith promoting series,” and never by
word or look do anything to pull down.
	And now to my all-important subject,
the motherless children of Zion. My
soul is drawn out in anguish at their great
loss, and their numbers, and there is not
a week passes but more are added to the


list, and my heart asks the question why
is it so? and my soul answers: It is God’s
will, even so. But oh, what a responsi-
bility left to the inhabitants of Zion, to
comfort, to cheer, to counsel, to guide
and direct, to seek after and watch over,
to encourage well doing and protect from
the devouring wolves. And let me ask
you, dear sisters of the Relief Society, to
so simplify the work in your homes, that
you may have time for this vast work of
training the motherless ones and help
them to have faith in the Gospel—in fact
to do by them as you would have done by
yours under like circumstances.
	Many years ago I was raised up from,
as it were, the gates of death, my grati-
tude was very great that I was spared to
my little ones, and I promised my Heav-
enly Father that I would be a “counselor
and guide” to all the motherless within
my reach. And sisters in your ministra-
tions do not overlook the big boys, their
hearts are tender, but they lock their sor-
rows in their own breasts and would
hardly think it womanly to pour out their
grief in any ears. Draw them to you in
kindness and sympathy, let them feel
that they indeed have a motherly friend
in you. Encourage them in their pros-
perity, and where failures appear come
to the rescue with all the faith you can
command, and wisdom will be given you
for every need.
	President George Q. Cannon once told
us that a faithful mother could say any-
thing to her boys (as well as girls) that
would be for their well being, which I have
proven to be true. And are they not all
our boys, and we do not want one to
stray or be lost. When the time comes
for them to take companions enquire if
they are going to the Temple, if so, tell
them you have a suit they can use, and
help them all you can. But if there are
obstacles in the way, try and find out
what they are, and help to remove them
if possible. Go to the Fountain, say here
are the clothing, oh, Father provide Thou
the lamb I pray Thee, and you will mar-
vel at the results of your efforts and your
petitions. But the subject is too vast for
this article and I can only hope that the
spirit of the mission will rest upon you as
it does upon me; and is this work not in-
cluded in the mission of saviors upon
Mount Zion? The Doctrine and Cove-
nants tells us that it is a slothful servant
that waits to be called in all things, then
let us take up this mission in behalf of
the dear mothers that have passed be-
hind the veil, as well as for their posterity
that remain with us.
	Sincerely your sister in the covenant of
peace,
					M. A. WINTERS.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 21, 1906.


