[Column 1]
			ADDRESS.
	BY SISTER MARY BAXTER.
	Beloved brethren, sisters and friends—
I take pleasure in assembling with you
today to celebrate the sixty-fifth anniver-
sary of the Relief Society organization
by our beloved and martyred prophet,
Joseph Smith, inspired by divine direc-
tion; and now at the present time there
are more than six hundred organizations,
and wherever there is a mission estab-
lished, there is also a Relief Society or-
ganized.
	Dear sisters, in looking back over the
pages of time we perceive that almost all
of those who were present on that mem-
orable event in Nauvoo in 1842, and many
others who have taken part in the organ-
ization since that time, have passed be-
hind the vail. It becomes us, dear sis-
ters, to pay a passing tribute to their
memories; they rest from their labor and
their reward will follow; they are only
gone before us to the spirit land—“Peace
to their ashes.”
	And again turning our thoughts back-
ward to the first organization, sixty-five

[Column 2]
years ago, let us ask the question how
much has been accomplished by the ladies
of these associations in these decades of
time? Who can tell? Echo answers—
who? What mind can comprehend, what
tongue can tell of the heights and depths
of the labors of love and the self-abnega-
tion of these sisters of charity, ministering
angels of mercy, responding to every call,
in every hour, in every season, comforting
the sick, smoothing the pillows of the
dying and gently closing their eyes in
death, and with loving hearts and gentle
hands preparing them for their last rest-
ing place, weeping with those who weep,
drying the mourner’s tears. Many of my
sisters before me today have earned the
righteous plaudit, “well done, good and
faithful” handmaid, “inasmuch as ye
have done it unto these, you have done
it unto me.” Sisters, you are not forgot-
ten—the angels are silent notes taking,
your names are recorded in the archives
of heaven.

	There are watchful eyes around us,
	That slumber not nor sleep,
	Who are never moved by envy,
	They a faithful record keep.

	Sixty-five years have passed—the fu-
ture is before us. Let us renew our dili-
gence, seek out the poor and the needy,
comfort the downcast, and raise the fall-
en; pass not by on the other side.

		“We ge our ways in earth alone,
	We hold oursalves too far from all our kind,
	Too often we are deaf to sigh and moan.
	Too often to the weak and helpless blind,
	Too often where distress and want abide,
	We turn and pass upon the other side.”

	Above all, my sisters, let us have char-
ty. “Charity suffereth long and is kind,
thinks no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity,
but rejoiceth in the truth.” My sisters,
there are volumes in these few words,and
in the practice of these virtues lies the
key to your success as officers and as
members of the Relief Society. Without
this gift we are void, our professions are
hollow, we are as the sounding brass and
the tinkling cymbal.  Charity is the love
of God. the magnetic influence of the
Holy Spirit that surpasseth all under-
standing; it is the voice of the Good
Shepherd—the sheep hear that voice and
love to follow it, even unto death, if nec-
essary. They rule the most who rule by
love.
	Sisters, do we realize the great and no-
ble calling unto which we are called; do
we understand the honor and privileges
that are bestowed upon us through the
Holy Spirit and everlasting priesthood of
God, called with a holy calling to be
the daughters and handmaids to labor in
the vineyard of our Father, even the
Eternal God. To feed the hungry, to
clothe the naked, to be eyes to the blind,
and strength to the aged and infirm, to
wash and anoint in faith believing in the
promises of the Lord, living near unto
Him at all times, that we may have the
influence of His Spirit to guide us in all
our actions.
	I know this day that we are thankful
or the Gospel revealed through our be-
loved prophet, Joseph. We are thankful
that we have been called to help to bring
to pass the redemption of the world,
and also the redemption of the dead,
Glory to God in the highest be given.
Amen.
	Relief Society, Goshen, Utah.


