		MILLARD STAKE.

	Lecture 1—Marriage.
	Marriage ordained of God, Doc. and
Cov. 49: 15-17. Sacredness of the mar-
riage covenant, Doc. and Cov. 132 Key
to Theology, chap. 17.

	Lecture 2—The education required be-
fore entering the married state.
	Boys contemplating marriage should
learn the arts of agriculture and mechan-
ism. The intelligent farmer, the most in-

[Column 2]
dependent of mankind, and it is he who
can lead the ideal life, close to the heart
of nature, Girls should be instructed in
housekeeping in every department of the
home, also in the development of charac-
ter and ability. Introduce practical illus-
trations; more preparation should be
made to qualify girls for wives and moth-
ers than to enable them to become school
teachers and business women.

	Lecture 3—God’s first commandment
to multiply and replenish the earth. Gen.
1: 28.
	How to prepare for motherhood. The
gospel as essential to spiritual develop-
ment. The Word of Wisdom essential
to physical development. The joy and
love of a willing mother to rear an
honorable family the greatest work a wo-
man can do.

	Lecture 4—Building the home.
	As in the beginning an intelligent Cre-
ator prepared the earth to be the home
of mankind, so we should intelligently
prepare our homes—with firm founda-
ons—for comfort, convenience, economy
of time and strength, for health and
harmony, for peace and love. If a coun-
try home, convenient buildings for the
stock, poultry, etc.; improved orchards,
gardens, lawns and flower gardens, All
that tends to elevate and add refinement
to the home should be encouraged,cheer-
fulness of disposition should be cultivat-
ed in the family. The home should be
the ideal spot to all concerned.

	Lecture 5—Government of the home.
	The unity of parents in governing their
children—one parent should not interfere
with the other, whether he or she is re-
proving the child, unless cruel treatment
is exercised. Teach the child to be self-
governing by setting good examples—by
reasoning with and showing the results
of doing certain things. Never threaten
or intimidate children; show them gently
and kindly how to do things; do not call
your children names, such as dunces,
fools, blockheads, or little devils, remem-
ber they are “chips of the old block.”
Have confidence in your children and
place responsibility upon them—children
thus treated will justify the confidence
reposed in them. Government is guiding,
not controlling by force. Do not scold—
as far as possible, control by gentleness
and love.

	Lecture 6—Responsibility of parents.
	Blessing of chiidren, Doc. and Cov. sec.
20, y. 70 sec. 29, v.46, 47, 48 68: 25-31.
Faith, repentance and baptism.

	Lecture 7—What to teach our children.
	Cleanliness, industry, Doc. and Cov.
42: 41, 42. Not to take the name cf God
in vain, Doc. and Cov. 63: 60-64. To
keep the Sabbath day holy, Doc. and
Cov. 59. To love and respect their par-
ents. To respect grown people and the
rights of playmates. To be kind to all
dumb animals, and to reverence old age.
To honor father and mother by leading
pure lives. To be obedient to all right-
eous authority. That before they can
learn to govern or control others they
must first learn to obey. Teach them to
be patriotic, brave, gentle, true, modest;
not to listen to vulgar or profane conver-
sation; not to be loud or boisterous in
the streets or in public places; not to be

[Column 3]
vain of fine clothes or superior accom-
plishments, Doc. and Cov. 42:40. that it
is an honor to be careful of their clothes,
and to appreciate the care and love ex-
ercised that they might be well clothed
and fed and provided with comfortable
homes and education; that all honest
work is honorable. It is a false education
which does not prepare us to meet the
battles of life. Work wins and educates.
By doing we learn to do. Never ridicule
an unfortunate person, such conduct does
not enhance our intelligence, or increase
our importance. All persons have defects
—we are wise if we pay heed to our own
and let others alone. Last but not least,
in teaching our children, teach them to
imitate not a fool, but a wise man.

	Lecture 8—Care of the sick. Doc. and
Cov. sec. 42, v. 43-53-

	Lecture 9—Effects of alcohol and to-
bacco on muscle and brain.
	Cite examples that have come under
your own observation of those who have
suffered and died from effects of this evil
habit. Some business men Will not em-
ploy men or boys who use either liquor
or tobacco. State the reason why. For
useful reference see Doc. and Cov. sec. 89.
Word of Wisdom.
	Note: This lecture should be given as
impressive as possible, then the lecturer
should be sent as a missionary to the -
Mutual Improvement Association and to
the Primary, said lecture to be delivered
to each of these Associations.

	Lecture 10—The Tragedy of Broken
Family Ties contrasted with a happy,har-
monious, united and Loyal Family.
	Note: On the second Thursday in De-
cember a suitable program should be pre-
pared for Christmas and to celebrate Jos-
eph Smith’s birthday.
		ISABELLA ROBISON, Pres.
