THE STEVENS GENEALOGY.
BY DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.
	Books of genealogical records are of
special interest to the Latter-day Saints
and the spirit that has inspired our breth-
ren and sisters more particularly, and also
the people of the world, to hunt up rec-
ords of ancestry, is in fulfillment of an-
cient prophecy, the very last words with
which the Old Testament closes its sa-
cred pages are from the prophet Malachi
on this very subject:
	“Behold I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great
and dreadful day of the Lord.
	“And he shall turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children, and the hearts of
the children to the fathers, lest I come
and smite the earth with a curse.”
	How significant this seems to all our
people, who are familiar with what has
transpired since the revelation to Joseph
Smith, who received direct communica-
tion concerning these things. Elijah the
prophet came and delivered to the
Prophet Joseph the message that has
gone forth, and the spirit of that message
is looking after our kindred that have
lived in times past, without whom those
who live now could not be made per-
fect. This work has grown to immense
proportions, and Sister Elvira Stevens is
one of those who has been diligent in
studying and tracing her genealogy, and
has used the means accumulated through
years of industry and toil in gathering up
and arranging names and data of her
kindred, as far back as obtainable; and
at last has had this matter compiled in a
very complete book form, available for
those of her name and lineage to peruse,
and become familiar with if they so de-
sire. The real value of it to herself is to
have a work done for her relatives in the
house of the Lord, whereby the family
chain may be linked together into one
perfect circle.
	The book is printed on excellent paper,
and is handsomely bound, and contains
fifty-eight illustrations of the family, men
and women. Some of them have been
members of the Latter-day Saints’ Church
and known among our people.
	The Stevens family are of Puritan an-
cestry, the first one the author mentions
is William Stevens, who came to New
England before 1632. She says he was a
ship carpenter, and one of the first set-
tlers of Salem, Mass., though he probably
had his residence in Boston or vicinity.
He filled several honorable positions,
such as selectman, commissioner, and for
four years a representative; and because
of his public services and in promoting
the prosperity of the colony he secured
an extraordinary grant of land (500 acres)
lying between two rivers with Indian
names, and a grant of six acres on what
was known as “Meeting House Neck;”
his residence property on the beach con-
sisted of eight acres. He is spoken of as
Governor Winthrop’s ship carpenter.
	He built the “Royal Merchant” of 600


tons. There are several notices of him
as ship builder in other places. He was
a member of the General Court in 1665,
when the colonial government made re-
sistance to the commissioners sent over
by the king. Four of Mr. Stevens’ neigh-
bors testified in a quarterly court in Sa-
lem in 1667, “that he had said he would
bear no office where Charles Stuart had
anything to do, and he cared no more for
Charles Stuart as king than any other
man, and that he abhorred the name of
Charles Stuart.” For this offence he was
imprisoned for one month and fined
twenty pounds and costs of trial, and was
deprived of his privileges as a freeman.
	Like others who rebelled against the
king, he lost prestige and failed in pros-
perity. It is said there is no record of
his death or a settlement of his estate. It
appears, however, that he married and
had seven children. The book contains a
record of the births. One, James Stevens,
a deacon of the church at Gloucester,
married Susan Evelyth, also Samuel,
married Mary Elery.
	There are many interesting items such
as these contained in the book, but we
have given this as marking the advent of
the first of Sister Elvira’s progenitors in
America. Whether she is directly descend-
ed from this Mr. Stevens we are not sure,
but he is a good specimen of the Puritans
who came over about that time and from
whom the colonies were largely peopled.
	The author has shown great persever-
ance in making so creditable a showing of
her ancestry, and we were pleased to see
that she had made mention of some who
have made a good record in this Church.
	Dr. Barney has made her own way in
the world, being left an orphan about the
time of the exodus from Nauvoo, and by
her own exertions and economy has built
and furnished four houses of her own.
These resideuces were all built in Salt
Lake City, and are probably all still
standing. The photos of the places are
shown in the book. Few women living
have done as much by their own industry
and she is certainly deserving of honor-
able mention, not only for building per-
manent habitations, but for effective
work she has done in other directions for
women and children. One of her splendid
characteristics is her loyalty to the Gos-
pel, and to those to whom she has be-
come endeared in the bonds of sisterhood.
We recommend the book to those inter-
ested in genealogical work, and trust she
will enjoy the fruits of her labor and reap
a glorious reward hereafter.


