[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall presented the
plan of the Woman’s National Council for
a memorial to Miss Anthony in the form
of a bust.
	Mrs. Mary C. Gannett of Rochester
presented the plan for a memorial in the
form of a building for the women students
in the University of Rochester. She
moved the adoption of the following re-
solution:
	“That the N. A. W. S. A. welcomes
and approves the proposed memorial to
Susan B. Anthony, and hereby records
its endorsement of the plans of the An-
thony Memorial Association, and urges
the hearty co-operation of our members.”
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery and Mrs.
Florence Kelley seconded the motion.
Speeches against the resolution were
made by Miss Clay of Kentucky, Mrs.
Clark of Rochester and Mrs. Churchill of
California, speeches in favor by Mrs. Mc-
Lean of Ohio, Mrs. Avery, Mrs. Kelley,
Mrs. Monroe of Kansas, Mrs. Rainsford
of Rochester and Miss Sweeney of Pitts-
burgh, Pa. Miss Shaw called the vice-pre-
sident to the chair and explained the
friendly feeling that Miss Susan B. An-
thony had toward a memorial of this gen-
eral kind and the great interest that Miss
Mary S. Anthony took in this particular
plan. Miss Shaw recommended that the
last clause of the proposed resolution
should be changed before it was adopted,
as the N. A. W. S. A., while friendly to
the Rochester memorial, was going to
urge a special memorial of its own in the
form of a $100,000 fund for suffrage work.
Miss Clay urged that the last eight words
of the proposed resolution be left out.
Mrs. Gannett consented to leave them
out, and the resolution, thus amended,
was then carried unanimously. Mrs. Gan-
nett returned thanks in behalf of her as-
socation.						Ex.
	Miss Victorie de Maligny has recently
come from Paris to the United States to
lecture on French literature before the
Universities. She will be the first woman
that has had an engagement to lecture at
Yale.
	Congress, which appropriated millions
for battleships, cut down the appropria-
tion for playgrounds for the children of
Washington from $30,000 to $15,000, one-
half of what it was last year. If the moth-
ers and teachers of America had had a
vote for members of Congress, would not
Congressmen be likely to pay more regard
to the interests of the children?

[Column 2]
	The woman suffrage bill has again been
“talked out” in Parliament, and kept from
coming to a vote. The 21,000 women
who petitioned against it were few in
comparison with the 257,000 women who
had previously petitioned for it, but they
were enough to show that there are “An-
tis” in England as well as in America.
Their attitude recalls that of certain non-
conformist ministers who once petitioned
Parliament against abolishing the political
disabilities of dissenters. They preferred
to remain subject to their own political
disabilities rather than to see the Roman
Catholics relieved from theirs.
	The Maharani of Baroda was elected
president of the Ladies’ Conference which
lately met at Calcutta, a remarkable as-
sembly of 600 representative women from
all parts of India. The president, in her
address, remarked that the chief object of
the local ladies’ society in the Mahila
Samiti, was to unite Indian ladies of all
creeds, casts and races, just as the men
were drawing closer together in common
aims, aspirations and endeavors. She
said, “We shape the minds of our children
in infancy and boyhood. We can inspire
them with a legitimate pride in our past
history, and a love for our modern liter-
ture. The manhood and womanhood of
India are our handiwork; let us, mothers,
train them to the service of our country
wherever we may dwell, whatever be our
religious creed or our profession in life.”
It is encouraging to see that even in India
women are beginning to “get together”
and plan to serve their country.

