EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters and women generally
throughout the west have probably no-
ticed that the governors in the several
states are making appointments for the
great National American Arbitration and
Peace Conference to be held in New York
City the middle of April, of this year.
Some of us who have for eight years now
taken part in helping to sow the seeds of
peace and holding peace meetings in all
the wards throughout the entire Relief
Society in all its branches here and else-
where, feel great interest in this coming
conference and ardently hope that such a
powerful impression may be made upon
the great, the influential, the public-spir-
ited men of our nation, that its influence
may permeate the world. The Governor
of Utah has appointed several delegates
to attend this conference, and it is greatly
to be desired that they may return with
helpful suggestions for the peace meet-
ings to be held in May under the auspices
of the women’s organizations.
	REFERRING to entertainments and
parties given during the past winter that
are of special interest, we ought certainly
to mention in passing the Pioneer old-
fashioned ball given by the officers of
that Society, in the Lion House, January
31, 1907, and made specially significant
by the dances of long-ago in which many
old-timers, as well as younger people,
participated. The ladies were requested
to come in old-fashioned costumes, and the
greater number complied; many of them
were very quaint, and stylish as well, and
others were plain and simple, old-pioneer
style, some homespun, silk and woolen.
Some quite elaborate of “ye olden time,”
a very great variety. The ball opened with
a grand march led by President Joseph
F. Smith and wife, the enjoyment was 
very general and a spirit of good fellow-
ship was apparent throughout the even-


ing. The supper consisted of old-time
refreshments, in fact the idea of pioneer
life was quite successfully carried out, and
the committee must have been gratified
in having afforded so much genuine pleas-
ure to the guests who came by special
invitation. The Lion House was decidedly
popular as a place of entertainment in
former days, but had fallen into disuse of
late years, but seems uow to have re-
gained its former popularity.


