	I feel, good friends, that we could well
tarry here. This is a sacred place: it is a
holy hour; it is a time when friends have
assembled in sympathy to express by their
mute presence the love and tender regard
they hold for a friend that has gone be-
fore. And here, lulled by the melody of

[Column 2]
sweet sounds, suffused in the fragrance
of flowers—which are God’s tender ex-
pressions to us—within each heart a
flower of feeling still more delicate and
beautiful. I feel that in such an assembly
we might well afford to tarry, and let the
soul of each go out and commune with its
neighbor soul. How beautiful it is to
contemplate the resignation and fortitude
exhibited by men and women of the most
exquisite sympathy, confronting one of
the greatest trials of life, the loss of a
friend, of wife, of mother. Instead of
weeping and wailing aloud as was done in
olden time, friends come together and
sing songs of praise and tenderness, and
bring floral offerings to express in the
most beautiful way possible the truest
feelings of their hearts. Grief has not
power to distress nor distract under the
spell of resignation and fortitude, which
is shown on occasions such as this. I say
how sweet it is to contemplate the holi-
ness and the sacredness of such a gather-
ing. It was not always so. When the
earth was young, before man had learned
to fortify himself against his dark foe,
these pangs of sorrow and grief were not
to be so assuaged. In those days—the
morning time of man’s experience—the
“grief-stricken and prostrated husband,
father or friend, would clothe his emaci-
pated form with a coarse garb called sack-
cloth, throw himself on the ground and
strew ashes over his body, and in the most
pitiful silence and agony would lie for
days. When the oppressive cloud of
gloom had lifted somewhat, the mourn-
ers would appear weeping and wailing,
and sorrow uncontrolled would be allowed
to surge like billows of the sea. The
splendid advancement that has been
made in respect to trials and sorrow, from
that day to this, may be appreciated on
this occasion, so beautiful, so impressive
is it. It betokens a fortitude that is God-
like.
	Man’s capacity is exhibited in his ability
to meet adversity. The human soul has
grown larger and stronger and deeper,
and its mental expanse more vast. Man
can now meet Death, and in his very
presence be resigned and steadfast in
soul. Who wrought this great miracle,
this splendid victory over human sym-
pathy and weakness, over human despair
and hopelessness? Only One in all the
world’s history proclaimed a knowledge
of the mysteries of life and death, and
over both he claimed to have absolute
power. “I have power to lay down my
life, and I have power to take it up
again.” The Scientist, Saint, and Proph-
et, who understood these great mysteries
which shroud our beginning and our end,
to Him is due the honor and praise for
this victory which has been wrought in
the human race.
	The poor Indian, when once his tapee
has been overshadowed by death, can no
longer dwell there. Taking up his wig-
wam, he moves to another place where he
may dwell and not be haunted by the evil
spirit of death, nor be disturbed by those

[Column 3]
dark fears which brood over the spot
where Death has gained a single victory.
To us the resting place of the dead is
sacred, even their presence is holy,
Thank God for such a readjustment of
the human soul to this ever constant
foe, or friend, as we may choose to deem
him.
	It is beautiful to contemplate the life of
our dear friend who has gone to her re-
ward. I sometimes feel in the presence of
a woman who has filled the full measure
of her being as a mother, and has done so
acceptably to those to whom she owed
such sacred obligations, that I stand in
the presence of the most sacred life con-
ceivable. In this life we all struggle for
the expression of that which is best in us;
and no matter where our life’s work may
be, in the shop, or on the farm, in the
marts of trade, or on the highway, in the
studio producing sculpture and paintings,
or in the seclusion of the study compos-
ing poetry, or music, our life is being ex-
pressed in every act, great or small. He
who lives life the best expresses himself
most nobly. What a beautiful expression
to life is given the mother—sublime mat-
rix of the world”—the mother of all liv-
ing. And our departed sister was a moth-
er of sons and daughters—priceless gifts
bestowed upon the world. How sublimely
is her life expressed! Need we inscribe
epitaphs to her honor? Need we speak
her praise or erect a monument to her
memory? She has reared her own monu-
ment; she has spoken her own praises bet-
ter than we can. She has written in
eternal fire and life’s blood her own epi-
taph. Behold her sons and daughters,
her true and devoted husband. These
are her kingdom; they are her life. She
dwells in them and they in her. This is
her eternal glory. We speak of the
hereafter; we are already in eternity. The
foundations of the kingdom laid by this
good woman and her noble and true com-
panion are eternal; they are not to be
dissolved, nor is the compact that holds
them together to be annulled. They are
already immortal ties.
	Of her life we might speak further, but
time restrains us. She was, like many
other women, a sufferer. It seems to me
that the apotheosis of woman is through
her suffering, and in her destined sorrows
she nearest approaches the Son of Man,
the greatest of sufferers. His life was the
sweetest that was ever lived, yet it was
the saddest life the world ever saw.
Jesus, the man of sorrows the God-man.
And He is approached, I say, more near-
ly by woman in her sufferings for others,
than by any one else. Why is it so? We
might well ask why is it that suffering
should form so great a part of our exper-
ience in this earthly existence. The
longer I live the more I am driven to the
conclusion that life is a great school of
experience, and we are sent here to learn
certain lessons. It is a compulsory sys-
tem of education, too, which is in vogue
here; there is no playing truant; each
must learn the lessons for himself. When


