				RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS our Heavenly Father has seen fit to 
remove our beloved sister, from our midst one who 
has been to all an example of patience and cheer-
fulness and a loving mother. Therefore be it re-
solved by the sisters of the American Fork 4th 
Ward Relief Society that we tender our sympathy
unto the bereaved family and relatives. And while 
we feel deeply the loss, we know that she died as 
she had lived in the hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. 
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the re-
cord of this Society, and sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT for publication. 
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the 
Relief Society February 28th, 1907. 

	Why do we mourn that she has left us? 
	We should only say well done; 
	She was true to her probation 
	And a place in heaven has won. 
	'Tis true her parting has bereft us 
	But her virtues we recall; 
	She was candid, firm and valiant, 
	And a loving friend to all. 

	She has gathered with her kindred 
	But her work will never cease; 
	She will love the truth in heaven 
	And impart her works of peace, 
	While she mingles with the angels 
	Yet her choicest blessings fall 
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones, 
	Yes, she blesses one and all. 
					ALICE T. STEELE, 
					ALICE A. MOTT,
					SAEINA E. ALLEN, 
					ELLEN G. PROCTOR. 
								Committee.


On the 25th day of January, 1907, there passed
from earth one of the noble spirits of this dispensa-
tion, Sister Anna D. Johnson Kempe. In her
death, which occurred while on a visit to her
daughters, in Mesa, Arizona, St. Johns loses one
of her most loyal and progressive citizens, and our
Relief Society one of its most faithful workers.
She was born February 5th, 1837, in Fredrickstad
Norway. Her early life was one of toil, much of
her time being spent with her father and brothers
fishing for the market.
	For many years she worked out. She could not
go home when she felt inclined as girls do at the
present time but was engaged for a number of
years at a time.
	Her people were religious, but were satisfied
with what they had. She alone seemed to yearn
for some thing better. At the age of eighteen she
first heard the sound of the gospel, and she knew
it was true. She was away from home at the time
learning the dressmakers trade, and was not per-
mitted to return to her parents afterward. Hence-
forth her only kindred were those who cast their
lot with the Saints of God. For eleven years she
worked in Norway, assisting the elders and savingmeans to come to Zion. Very often she would give
the whole of her weeks earnings to the church, and
counted It a privilege to do so. In 1865 she emi-
grated to Utah crossing the plains with oxteams.
In 1866 she was married to Christopher J. Kempe.
They moved to Provo where they lived six years.
In 1872 moved to Richfield remained there long
enough, to get good homes started, for Sister
Kempe’s thrift, industry and economy made a
showing in any place where she lived. In 1880
the family were called to help to build up the
settlements in Arizona, arriving in St. Johns in
October of that year. Then commenced a heroic
struggle to maintain themselves and build homes,
amid many discouraging conditions, not the least
being the bitter persecutions of our enemies. But
Sister Kempe always looked on the bright side of
things and had an encouraging word and more
substantial aid for those worse off than herself.
In 1884 her husband with other brethren, was tried
on a charge of ‘unlawful cohabitation” and most
cruelly sentenced to three years in the Detroit
House of Correction. This trial she bore bravely,
as she did everything else in life, and from that
time took upon herself the duties of both parents
in the rearing, educating and providing for her
family. After Brother Kempe’s return from prison


he was called to preside in the Concho Ward,
where he lived up to the time of his death, some
years ago. Sister Kempe was the mother of six
daughters, five of whom survive her. They are
Mrs. Hannah Greer of Holbrook, Mrs. Amelia
Coleman Prest of Y L. M. I. A. of St. Johns Stake;
Mrs. Olena Lewis and Amanda Hastings of Mesa,
Arizona, and Miss Leila Kempe of St. Johns.
Sister Kempe was a most devoted and self sacrific-
ing mother. Her daughters were early taught and
encouraged not only in literary pursuits but in all
kinds of work, and they are today successful
teachers, seamstresses and homebuilders.
	Sister Kempe has been actively engaged in Re-
lief Society work since she came to Zion and for
many years a subscriber for the EXPONENT. She
acted as President of our Ward Relief Society for
several years and was an active teacher till the
time of her leaving for a visit in November 1906.
	Although her funeral and burial took place
at Mesa where she died, memorial services were
held for her in the St. Johns Stake Academy on
the first Sunday in February 1907 when the Stake
Presidency, the Bishop, and many of her old
friends and neighbors bore testimony to her sterl-
ing qualities. Her integrity to the truth, her loyal-
ty to the priesthood, her strict honesty in the pay-
ment of her tithes and offerings, her unbounded
hospitality, benevolence and loving neighborly
qualities were all dwelt upon, showing beyond a
doubt what the gospel will do for a person if they
live up to its requirements. Also at the first meet-
ing of the St. Johns Relief Society held after her
sudden death (which was caused from pneumonia
after a two-weeks illness) her sisters bore testimony
to her many years of faithful work in our Society.
Felt that one of their strong props had gone, and
she would be sadly missed. It was resolved that
we send a sketch of her life to the EXPONENT and
that resolutions of respect and condolence be sent
to her family and placed upon our records. With
dear Sister Kempe we feel that all is well. A
glorious resurrection awaits her, and may God
comfort her family is our prayer.
			SARAH R. BERRY, President.
			IDA H. UDALL, Secretary pro tem.


