Vol. I. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1873.	No. 24.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Mormon question—How many
wives has he?
	The Pope still lingers in feeble health,
not expected long to survive.
	A Rhode Island man is under arrest for
the horrible crime of kicking his wife to
death. Was this worse than brute worthy
to have a wife!
	Mark Twain declares he would go
hungry two days rather than eat an old
personal friend. Such friendship should
be appreciated!
	The Tower of Babel style, is the name we
propose fora kind of head-dress now in vogue.
It rises toward heaven, but its owners will
never climb there by it.
	Fears of a general Indian war over the
west are widely felt, and may possibly be
realized if the cry for the extermination of
the aborigines continues and is sustained by
the country.
	Where women have the right to vote in
school districts, schools increase and grog-
geries decrease. The moral is obvious. Let
there be more schools and fewer dens of in-
temperance.
	The motto of the Good Templar girls of
Salem, New Jersey, is worth recording in
golden letters, and being hung up for gen-
eral admiration and adoption. It is: “The
lips that touch wine shall never touch
mine.”
	Official dishonesty has come to be
looked upon, in this country, as a rather
commendable kind of “smartness,” and as a
consequence, the public have frequent op-
portunities of applauding and rewarding
public robbers.
	A bridge gave way at a baptism at Dix-
on, near the Illinois State line, and precipi-
tating a crowd of people into the river, over
fifty of whom were drowned or killed, is
one of the latest horrors reported; and “no-
body to blame,” as usual.
	Two police captains of New York have
been represented to Mayor Havemeyer as
having pecuniary interests in gambling estab-
lishments. They will probably be promoted
to judgeships or be sent as Governors to
some of the Territories.
	A Marriageable young lady in Iowa
was lately locked in her room by her
father, but her lover got her out by a writ
of habeas corpus, and married her. That’s
what comes of understanding “business.”
More young men should go to studying law.
	Historians and novelists of this country,
will find their stores of foundation matter
for the present period largely increased
from the incidents recorded of the fierce and
bloody “war” with the Modocs. But small,
indeed, are the gains in such instances,
compared with the losses.
	The late claims of the women of Massa-
chusetts, and their petition to the Senate
and House of Representatives of the com-
monwealth of that State, to have plurality
of wives recognized and legalized, in order
that the surplus women may be provided
with homes and husbands, as it is every
woman’s right to be, shows that in this as
well as other matters, the intelligent and
[new column]
thoughtful women of the day, are, without
violating any order or law, superceding
the sterner sex.
	Robert B. Rosevelt holds the ladies
responsible for a drag on legislation on great
days, when they crowd the galleries of
Congress and “certain members air their
rhetoric just to let the ladies see what they
can do;” and he thinks this should be
remedied by the ladies visiting the halls of
Congress more frequently; a remedy which
many ladies would consider a good one.
	Civil war is actually raging in Louisiana,
as a consequence of there being two govern-
ments in the State, one supported by the
United States government, the other by the
majority of the people of the State. Armed
bands of men, supplied with artillery, are
in the field, and bloody contests are of
almost daily occurrence. Is this the begin-
ing of another tribulation?
	A writer from Paris describes a meet-
ing of French women, where she says a mob
was at the entrance, and as a woman rose to
speak, a chair was hurled at her; and as
another woman rose, chairs were hurled
over the heads of the audience. We have
read of the extraordinary politeness of the
“Messieurs,” but was scarcely aware of its
consistency being so similar to that of Chris-
tian purity.”
	It has been proved, by scientific re-
searches, that the perfume of flowers over-
comes noxious vapors that are often in the
atmosphere, especially the exhalations from
marshy grounds or decomposing animal
matter. In other words, they are healthful,
and add to life as well as minister to the
enjoyment of the senses. Plant flowers,
then, for their beauty; and perfume flowers
for their fragrance; and you will increase
the general health as a result.
	Great men are dropping off suddenly.
Chief Justice Chase, a truly great man, a
“pillar in the State of solid form,” a just
judge, a wise statesman, and a firm upholder
of the Constitution of our country, died in
New York last week; and his funeral ser-
vices were performed in Washington on
Monday, 12th inst. He will long be re-
membered as one of the most conservative
men in the government, at a time when the
centralizing tendencies of the age were
rapidly stripping the American people of
their sovereign rights reserved by them in
the Constitution. John Stuart Mill, the
eminent English political economist and
advocate of woman’s rights, also died last
week at Avignon, France; having left be-
hind him, in his works, a memory that will
be enduring.
	It has been discovered that chalk can be
used as fuel, by placing it in a grate with
alternate layers of coal. If, as some people
imagine, the coal supply of the globe is
rapidly becoming exhausted, some substitute
must be found, but the quantity of chalk in
the world, so far as known, would not meet
the demand for a great length of time. In
burning coal the inhabitants of the earth
now are using up the “preserved sunbeams”
of past ages, the heat then poured upon
vegetation yielding warmth and becoming
useful now, as that vegetation, in the shape
of coal, is returned to the elements by being
[new column]
consumed by fire. But people need not
worry themselves over the prospect of the
world’s being thrown back into barbarism
because of the failure of the supply of fuel;
the same beneficent Hand that formed the
coal beds from the flora of prehistoric ages,
can furnish another supply should this be-
come exhausted.
	One of the saddest things we have seen
recorded for a long time was the case of a
boy fifteen years of age, arrested and impris-
oned in New York the other day, on the
charge of being drunk, yet who had not
taken liquor. On an investigation of the case
it was discovered that before the boy was
born his father had been a habitual but
secret drunkard, and when the fact was
made known to the wife it almost deprived
her of reason. Her child was born, and
grow up bearing all the outward appearances
of being a drunkard though rigidly temper-
ate. He has the air, the manners, the look,
and the reeling gait of one intoxicated, and
when excited stammers, and speaks in
broken words, like a drunken man. Thus
his life has been blasted and his earthly ex-
istence cursed by his father’s sin. It should
be added, however, that the father, when
he learned how terribly the news of his
degradation affected his wife, made and
kept a resolution of reform, became an
altered and temperate man, and is now the
father of a family of bright, intelligent
children—all but the fated first-born.


﻿FRUIT FOR CHILDREN.

	Fruits have been marked as the special
enemies of childhood—the things to he
avoided at that age above all the rest.
Farmers, unable to keep their children out
of their orchards, have been known to cut
down their fruit-trees so as to place the
pernicious things beyond their reach; and
nothing is more common than to hear men
and women predicting that “the season is
going to be sickly because there is so much
fruit.” It would be difficult to conceive of
any notion more absurd than this; and yet
it has had for many years the sanction of
the highest medical authority. One of the
precepts that have come down to us from
the mostancient school of medicine founded
in Christendom contains a warning against
the enjoyment of these rich gifts of Provi-
dence—“Autumni fructus caveas, no sint
tibi luctus”—and well and faithfully has the
precept been inculcated by the successors of
the faculty of Salernum.  Instinct and
reason, however, have begun at last to pre-
vail over the heresy, and now physicians
generally when asked an opinion, say, “Eat
all the fruit you want—the more the better.”
And, indeed, nothing could be more sensible
than this answer. I am not sure the sense
of languor and lassitude so generally felt in.
the Spring is not owing to the want of fruit,
from which probably results a state of the
system bordering on scurvy.  By sub-acid
fruits and the vegetables of Summer, that
scorbutic tendency is corrected, and in
Autumn, as a consequence, the acme of
health is attained. On this account I should
place foremost among the culinary inven-
tions of our times the art of preserving
fruits in their fresh state all the year round.
—“Home and School."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent.
			TO ERNEST.

My own, these laughter-loving days, whose feet
Should gaily trip to sunshine’s merry horn,
Whose golden eyes should wake with smiles so sweet,
Till raptured eve from rosy, dewy morn,
Are all obscured with clouds so dim and gray,
Whose dun and trailing robes and falling tears
So over-shadow all my lonely way.
That hours seem surely length’ning into years.

The silv’ry tinkle of rain-cymbals overhead
(So like the patter of fairy feet in dreams,
Which o’er their smooth, green circles lightly tread,
While on the revels Luna softly beams,)
Fills my rapt soul with thoughts of that sweet night
When hand in hand, we wandered forth afar,
When only stars smiled out to give us light,
But benedictions beamed from every star.

Where no eye saw save His who reigns above,
In the hush and silence of that holy hour,
Apart in soul from all else living, Love,
Where God in Nature reigned in peace and power,
We lowly bowed before th’ Eternal throne
(But one in spirit, though two hands were joined)
And purely, truely, you confessed your own
True love and humbly sought the gift of mine.

You plead for guidance for our troubled souls—
O’er our coming lives a Father’s kindly care.
And that, when dread temptation darkly rolls, 
Our steadfast faith might keep our purpose fair.
The pure petition fell like summer rain
Upon the thirsty fields when parched and gray;
And doubts and fears that on my soul had Iain
Like cliffs of terror, melted soft away.

The waves of dread and trouble in my breast
Fell gently, ’neath that holy trusting prayer
Like some tired infant to its evening rest, 
And Peace spread over me her pinions fair.
Our souls were mingled then for evermore,
Like twin rills meeting in the mighty sea;
And still as one we’ll seek the shining shore
Of that fair life we call Eternity.
								Lu Dalton.


R. S. REPORTS.
	Report from Provo: The sisters in the
4th Ward Relief Society are faithful in the
discharge of their duties, and many of them
impart of their substance until I almost
think the receiver fares better than the
giver. Our meetings are not so well
attended as I could wish but the “faithful
few” seem to possess a good spirit and enjoy
our communion together. I believe the
Relief Societies have had a great influence
in uniting the hearts of the sisters and of
doing away, in some degree, with that ex-
clusiveness which has been too much in the
midst of the Saints. We have invested in
Co-operative institutions where we have a
small but perpetual benefit in dividends;
but in consequence of the many poor in our
Ward we have not been able as yet to build
a house but hope to do so in time.
		Repectfully yours,
		  Ruia A. Holden, President.

	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of the 57th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation of Salt Lake City, held May 10th,
1873, at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
	After singing and prayer, minutes of the
previous meeting were read and accepted;
minutes of meetings held in the 9th, 10 and
11th Wards were also read. The spirit of
the meeting was to impress upon the minds
of the sisters the importance of each one
seeking diligently to carry out the com-
mandments of the Lord, as given in words
of counsel and instruction by President
Brigham Young. They were admonished
to take interest in saving their paper rags
and jointly assisting in commencing and
maturing the plan suggested by President
Young, of making their own books. The
Exponent was also spoken of, and the
sisters were urged to renew their subscrip-
tions—those who had taken the first volume
—and those who had never subscribed for
[new column]
it, were advised and solicited to do so.
The subject of writing was introduced, and
the fact illustrated that practice and cultiva-
tion in composition would prove that true
talent and genius existed with many of the
daughters of Zion.  Sympathy and appro-
bation were expressed in relation to the
course being pursued by the women of
Lowell, Massachussets.  Faith and prayer
were spoken of as safe guards against
temptation and sin, and requisite auxiliaries
in accomplishing whatever was undertaken.
The speakers were President Mrs. Mary I.
Horne, Mrs. W. East, Counselors Mrs. B.
W. Smith, E. Howard and S. M. Kimball,
Mrs. Nancy Kennedy, Mrs. Leaver and Mrs.
Eleanor J. Pratt.
	“Medicine” was chosen as a subject for
the next meeting. Meeting adjourned; dis-
missed by singing and prayer.
			Maggie M. Groo, Secretary.
				 
	From the 12th Ward, Salt Lake City,
May 8, 1873:
	The 12th Ward Relief Society was organ-
ized April 29th, 1868, with Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, President, Mrs. Amanda Smith and
Mrs. Ruth Sayers Counselors. On April 7th,
1870, Mrs. Sayers was obliged to resign, on
account of ill health, and Mrs. Emily P.
Young was chosen to fill her place. The
Society is in a flourishing condition, although
but few in comparison attend our meetings.
The teachers are faithful in visiting on
their various blocks, instructing the sisters
and gathering their offerings; and we are
happy to state that the people of the Ward
have responded liberally to whatever call
has been made.  In looking over the books
I see that the disbursements for the poor and
other charitable purposes were for 1868, in
merchandise, $184:98; for 1869, $354:45; for
1870, $232:82; for 1871, $370:05; and for
1872, $399:25; with a balance on hand of
$105:55; making in all of cash and merchan-
dise, $1,647:10.  At a meeting held in the
Ward school house, May 1st, 1873, Counselor Mrs.
Amanda Smith made a motion that we drop the
word “Female” from the name of our Society, in
accordance with the views of our beloved Sister,
Miss E. R. Snow. Also that a report of the finan-
cial state of our Society be made out and forwarded
to the Exponent for publication; both of which
were carried unanimously. Our meetings are held
the first Thursday of every month at 2. p. m.
		   Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Pres.
			" Amanda Smith, }	Counselors.
			" Emily P. Young, }
			" H. A. Hardy, Secretary.
			" Sophia L. Hardy, Treasurer.

	 We are favored with the following from Spring
City, Sanpete County: Our Society was organized
May 10th, 1868, with Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde,President;
Mrs. Elizabeth Allred, first Counselor, Mrs. Ann
Larson, second Counselor, Mrs. Philindia Benson,
Secretary and Mrs. Mary Ann Frantzen, Treasurer.
Having suffered by Indian depredations, as well as
by being sorely scourged by the ravages of grass-
hoppers, and being a small settlement, we have not
accomplished as much as some others under more
favorable circumstances. We have at present $125
in the co-operative store; in the treasury $70;
some grain and other articles; besides a goodly
portion of building material towards building a
house. We have donated to the poor at home,
emigration and other public calls, during the last
year, $182:27. This is not a full account of all
that has been done, for some accounts have been
lost in changing Secretaries.  The word “Female,”
has been withdrawn from the name of the Society
by unanimous vote.
	Our President, Mrs. Hyde, is a faithful Saint,
striving to her utmost to carry out all the duties
which devolve upon her.
	We have suffered severely from the spotted
[new column]
fever; quite a number have died from its effects,
some twenty within the last six months.
	Wishing success to the Exponent,
		Respectfully,
 				Mrs. P. Benson, Secretary.

	This comes from Bountiful, May 2d, 1873:
Having been rather dilatory in forwarding
a report of this Branch of the Relief Society,
we will now endeavor to be as brief as pos-
sible. The Society was organized in 1868,
by Bishop Stoker and his Counselors, as
follows: Elizabeth H. Barlow, President,
Lucinda Sessions and Mary Jane Crosby,
Counselors; Mary Carter Secretary and Cor-
delia Carter, Treasurer. During the five
years the Society has been organized we
have received in cash $564:19; in merchan-
dise, $1,318:09 1/2. Disbursed to the poor
in cash $322:90; in goods, $1,025:07 1/2; have
helped the P. E. Fund; have shares in the
Co-operative store and design building a
hall for the benefit of the Society, which we
have already commenced. We feel it a
satisfaction to know that we can be co-
workers together with and lighten the care
of our brethren, in helping to roll forth the
kingdom of God; and that it is woman’s por-
tion to be full of charity, seek out the
oppressed, the poor, the widow and the
orphan, imparting to them of her substance
—and binding up the broken heart. We
have a great interest in the Exponent—
		Through which we rejoice to hear,
		From our sisters far and near;
		Stimulating ev’ry heart.
		To press on and bear a part.	
	Elizabeth H. Barlow, President.
	Mary Carter, Secretary.

	From Marriottsville, near Ogden: The
Relief Society of Lynn and Marriottsville
was organized April 21st, 1870. Since that
time it has disbursed to the poor of the two
settlements, $103;30; to the Emigration
Fund, $100; has also assisted in building the
Ladies’ Store in Ogden City, donated to the
Marriottsville Sunday School, has at present
two shares (ten dollars) in the Ladies’ Store
and $30 in the Treasury. On the 21st and
22d ult., we celebrated the anniversary of
our organization; held meetings both days,
well attended and favored with the pres-
ence and kind, cheering instructions of
our brethren; after which, we concluded
the little season of social enjoyment with a
"party" at  which good order and harmony
prevailed. We had previously voted unan-
imously to adopt the change of name for the
Society, omitting the word "Female." We
admire and highly appreciate the “Woman’s
Exponent” and design doing all we can in
sustaining that and every good cause.
			Ann Bickington, President:
			Lydia Gates, } 
			Nancy Tracy } Counselors:
			C. Parry, Secretary;


Agnes Goulding, for a number of years
matron of the home for discharged female
prisoners at Dedham, has been appointed
matron of the Clark Institution for deaf
mutes, at Northampton, and enters upon her
duties in June.	
	Carrie N. Forsythe, of Chicago, daughter
of Charles S. Forsythe of Illinois, deceased,
has brought suit in the Circuit Court,
against the National Life Insurance Company
of Chicago, placing her damages at $6,000.
From the bill filed it appears that the
deceased was insured in the “Commercial
League” of the company, which guaranteed
an indemnity of $4,000 at least, but although
proof of death has been duly submitted and
the funds demanded, the company has
refused to pay over the same.


WOMAN'S. EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
WORKING MEN AND WORKING WO-
			   MEN.
			    ——
— "O! Oh!” says Madam Grundy, “the
idea of our girls setting themselves up to be
some great big “I’s,” and attempting to be-
come ‘business women!' It's perfectly
absurd—it is awful!”
	Why, auntie, has not a woman the same
right to be a business individual that a man
has? She was created like him to live upon
the earth; like him she must eat and drink
and be provided with a habitation wherein
to dwell, and material wherewith she may
be clothed. Is it less honorable in her
to take proper measures to obtain, fairly
and justly, the little essentials of life, or even
luxuries, if she desires them, than to be
dependent on man, or apparently so, for
whatever her fancy or reason may require?
“Ah, but,” says madam, “she amply pays
for all she gets,if she stays at home and
attends to her household affairs with pro-
priety. There is no necessity for a woman
ever to leave the house to find employment;
there is always abundance of work to be
done in every family.” There you are
quite right, Mrs. G., and further, no girl
should be brought up without a knowledge
of house-keeping and cookery. But all this
does not prove that no woman should learn
and practice any suitable trade, art or pro-
fession. In our common schools, girls as
well as boys are required to study mathe-
matics and other branches which are but
little benefit to them, if all they are to be
allowed to think of is preparing meals and
keeping the house in order. But it is their
lawful and just privilege to progress in
knowledge and worth in every form, prac-
tically as well as mentally; and, as men do,
make choice among whatever legitimate
courses present themselves, of the one most
acceptable for gaining—not alone a liveli-
hood—but influence and recognized utility
in society as well.
	“Yes,” argues the old lady, “but it is so
out of place, so improper, for women to be
associated with men in business transactions,
as they inevitably must be, in order to
become acquainted with and successfully
carry on any of the employments which
have been so long controlled by men; such
as clerking, working in printing establish-
ments, etc.” Is it, then, to be considered a
disparagement to either, for men and women
to be in the society of each other? Yet
men who are habitually associated with
women of refined natures, are themselves
superior to other men. They lose their
rude, declamatory and pedantic ways, and
become more chivalric, courtly and elegant
in mind and heart, as in manner and address.
The woman, too, who becomes accustomed
to the society of educated, honorable men,
so that she is at ease and enjoys freedom of
thought and speech in such associations,
becomes also superior to her sex in general,
and to her former self. Her better senses
are awakened; she finds, by continued
conversation with the enlightened of
the opposite sex, that she possesses high
and noble faculties which brighten into
richness and glowing worth under the
influence of intellectual competition; and
grace and dignity take the place of frivolity
and timidity, without changing in the
smallest degree the delicate, chaste, and
gentle peculiarities of her woman's nature.
Did not the Eternal and Allwise Creator,
say it was not good for man to be alone, and
therefore made for him a help mate in the
form of woman?   Wherefore, then, should
there be so great a distinction placed be-
[new column]
tween man. and woman, since they were
created for each other?
	The cause of working men .and working
women being embarrassed and awkward in
the society of the opposite sex, is simply
force of habit. The rich man’s sons and
daughters, who give much of their time
to pleasure and amusement, are continually
brought in contact with companions of both
sexes. Hence, their superior grace and
seeming intellectual powers. The children
of laborers are less-connected and gain less
self-confidence; and then it is thought that
they are less gifted and naturally more
sluggish in mind. But they must not seek
to break the barrier which restrains them—
O no! it is “absurd” for a working woman to
undertake to establish for herself any thing
but the “humdrum” drudge life Madam
Grundy has been, pleased to mark out for
her. If she attempts to advance in the
scale of practical education any higher than
to have an understanding of how to knit and
sew, or scrub and cook, she is growing
“strong minded,” and that is “awful,”
	But after all, work must be done; and in
reality, a woman who will and must work,
has as just a right to work by the side of a
man, as another who will not work and
is able to live without it, has to walk, ride,
dance or sit on the sofa beside one.  Men
and women were not made to dwell separate,
but in the society of each other.	G.


﻿PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.
	
	The following petition has been prepared
and signed by a large number of ladies in
Lowell, Massachusetts, to be presented to
the Legislature of that State. The petition
has already appeared in a number of lead-
ing Eastern journals, the first to give it
place being the New York Graphic, from
which it was clipped into the Chicago Times
and other papers:
				Lowell, April—,1873.
To the Honorable the Senate and House of
		Representatives of the Commonwealth
		of Massachusetts:
	The undersigned, citizens of the State,
respectfully set forth the grievances under
which they suffer as women who are not
permitted to vote, hold any and all offices,
and engage in the occupations opened to
men, and are otherwise restricted in the
opportunity of earning a living, and here-
with beg your permission to suggest a
remedy for these evils, upon which they
pray your honorable body to act.
	The law which now governs society says,
practically, that women should be married,
should engage in work at their own homes,
and should look to their husbands for sup-
port. On the other hand, the census shows
that it is impossible to carry out this un-
written but recognized law, for the reason
that there is a large excess of women in the
commonwealth, and many of the men of
lawful age are idle, vicious, incompetent, or
otherwise unfit to be heads of households.
Yet your petitioners hold that the matter
is not without remedy. Prejudice and cus-
tom has decided in favor of restricting the
husband to a single wife, yet without justice
and authority, as we believe. In the Book
which lies at the foundation of all law recog-
nized in this country, there is no injunction
against a plurality of wives, while there are
many examples therein recorded in its
favor. Men’s wives appear to have in-
creased in number in proportion with their
flocks and riches. Such a rule even now
holds in the land from which the Christian
nations received their religion.
	Your petitioners have no desire to inter-
fere with the regulations of any existing
[new column]
household, but simply to present their claims
to the marriage state for your respectful
consideration. They deem it their privilege
and their duty to suggest the marriage of a
man to more than one wife, in cases where
the first wife does not object, and where it
is made evident that the man is able to sup-
port the burden laid upon his resources.
They are aware that it takes years to remove
prejudices, and that those who take a second
or third place in the household may be looked
upon with disfavor; but confident that their
proposed action will ultimately do away
with much of the social evil which afflicts
and distresses all communities, they are
willing to be the first to engage in this work
of reform. Society which now insists that
woman shall be married and look to her
husband for support, will, after mature
reflection, counteract this effort to carry out
the law practically.
	It is far from the design of your peti-
tioners to ask legislation in behalf of free
love or any loosening of the marriage bond.
We ask that the marriage of the second wife
shall be made as permanent and binding
as that of the first, and that all the children
of the household shall have equal honor.
And in asking this, we believe we have
taken a long stop toward doing away with
foundling asylums, preventing ante-natal
murders, and lessening the vagabond child
population of our large cities.
	For the reasons enumerated your peti-
tioners respectfully ask the passage of a law
permitting plural marriages in the cases
above enumerated, and under such other
conditions as to your judgment may seem
wise and proper.
	And your petitioners will ever pray, etc.


[For the Exponent.
		IMPORTANCE OF DECISION.

	Is it better to spend half a life-time
contemplating what is best to do, than to make
up your mind to some laudable course of
conduct and make a bold attempt to reach
the mark you set out for, even though it be
not the highest on record, and, even though
you come short of gaining the exact point
you started for? I think not. True, “it is
better to move moderately than to move
wrong;" and it is well to “look before you
leap;” but indecision holds many a man from
achieving the most praiseworthy results of
high and noble ambition. A young man
realizes that he might become a first class
architect, or a superior workman of any
kind; he would like the trade, has the
abilities and, probably, there is nothing in
the way to interfere with his commencing
to learn at once. But it will require time
and patience and practice to acquire a
thorough knowledge of it, such as he would
need, if he undertook it, and possibly
something else may be presented that will
be a little easier and pay better just now—
the future stands away off and can be looked
after when it gets here. He will wait a year
or two, and look around. he does not
really know that the trade would suit him,
it might not be as much to his taste as he
imagines.  So the chance passes without
being improved, and the time slips away
and is lost. And thus people waste the
best and most useful days of their lives in
very many instances; and, nothing being
decided upon, nothing is accomplished.
	There is no necessity for taking what
seems to be a wrong step in order to move
in some direction. The way chosen may
not always prove the wisest; but we may
dally in uncertainty half our lives, for fear
of running a dangerous risk, and then make
the worst of mistakes when we are too old to
rise above and outlive them. 	Mignona.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE E. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten Copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	The Sunday liquor law is strictly en-
forced throughout Petersburg......A horse-
shoer in Worcester lately had both legs
broken by a horse which he was shoeing.......
Three young men were recently drowned at
Albany by the capsizing of a pleasure boat
in which they were sailing......Only two
buildings were left standing at San Salvador
after the recent terrible earthquake, the
Hotel del Parque and the Government
palace, both badly damaged, and the latter
has since fallen......A colored man has been
appointed to a $1,200 clerkship in the custom
house in New York......In Washington,
Pennsylvania, a short time ago, a wholesale
jail delivery occurred, a notorious murderer
being among the escaped prisoners.....A
Quincy man was lately found in the street
who had been robbed of $15 in money, and
his pants, all but one pocket which contained
$25 to which he had clung with desperation.
......Nearly 500 persons were killed and
wounded by the San Salvador earthquake.
......Senator Sumner, though still feeble,
his physicians think, with proper care,
may recover and yet be in the full enjoy-
ment of health......A woman in Troy, N. Y.,
was lately sent to jail for stealing $60 worth
of clothing from another woman........Of
15,193 teachers whom Iowa employs, 9,355
are women......A brother of England’s dis
tinguished statesman, John Bright, lately
died at Geneva, Switzerland.......Mr. A. T.
Stewart’s “Home for Working Women,” in
New York, is about completed......The
Flushing “Journal” of Flushing, Long
Island, has only begun to think that of all
points of the age, the most important point
for consideration is the children; we sup-
posed every “thinker” had thought of that
long ago.....In Kansas is a man loafing
around the streets, a drunken vagraut, who
during the war of the Rebellion, won for
his gallantry as a soldier, the commission
of Brevet Major General; intemperance and
the gambling table have wrought this ruin.
......The Legislature of Pennsylvania has
passed a bill appropriating for the Centen-
nial Exhibition $1,000,000....It is announced
that Edward S. Stokes is again doomed to
suffer, in expiation of the murder of James
Fisk, the full penalty of the law......Last
month’s storm appears to have made a gen-
eral sweep over nearly the whole of the
United States.....Iowa refuses to establish
capital punishment.......The national debt
of Japan is estimated at $140,000,000.....
The productions of a two weeks’ opera season
in Chicago amounted to $42,526.....Yellow
fever is raging at Rio do Janeiro.......The
Empress of Austria was mourned three
weeks by the Russian Court......It is con-
sidered that the annual products of the
honey bees of the United States reaches
$8,000,000......General Sheridan is going to
publish a military book......George Francis
Train believes himself an elephant on the
hands of the Government......Mr. Froude
says he did not meet a single vulgar person
in America......A Japanese has been made
a deacon in the Baltimore Methodist Con-
ference.......The King of Siam, the Mikado
of Japan and the Shah of Persia take interest
in the American forth-coming Exhibition.
......Rev. Newman Hall designs visiting
America......Mary Queen of Scotts, it is said,
is to be made a Saint......There is an “Alex-
ander Dumas” association in Boston.......
Finding Livingstone and fame has cost
Stanley $1,500.......A school for teaching
girls house-work is to be opened in Boston
by Jennie Collins......A Massachusetts man is
said to make $2,000,000 worth of chairs annually.
......The new Catholic Cathedral to be built at
[new column]
Hartford, Connecticut, will cost half a million dol-
lars......There are sixteen public parks in London.
...The Senate Chamber at Ottawa is to have a bust
of the Princess of Wales.......Ristori, it is rumored,
will soon visit America again.......Oakes Ames
died at Boston on the 8th inst......The wife of
Governor Safford of Arizona has got a bill of divorce
from him......Science has long been engaged in
seeking to discover and make known the principle
of life, wherefore, whence and how it originates; but
it still remains an unfathomed mystery.......The
Prince of Wales likes Ireland and contemplates
another visit to it......Senator Stockton’s wife has
the reputation of speaking seven different languages.
......William Cassidy, editor of the Albany “Ar-
gus,” recently died from a clot in the heart twelve
inches long......They find statuary marble in Ver-
mont which is said to be as fine as any in the world.
.......There are no less than forty-nine bridges in
Providence, R. I.......A railroad is being built
through the Notch at the White Mountains.........
There are, as reported, twenty thousand pauper
children in London, who go to school.........The
Hoosac Tunnel, not yet completed, will cost $20,-
000,000.....Fifteen million of bricks will be made
in Lewiston, this season....Miss Emma Hubbard
has received the degree of Bachelor of laws from
the Michigan University......The Easter sermon,
in the Methodist church at Belpre, Ohio, was
preached by Mrs. Tracy Cutler this year..........
During the last year or two of his life, Louis Napo-
leon was very devout.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The following brief note from the Secretary of
the Deseret Agricultural & Manufacturing So-
ciety calls for a response from the various
Relief Societies, which we hope will be promptly
forwarded.  It is desirable that the ladies’ de-
partment of the forthcoming Fair should be as
well represented as possible, and reports are
solicited from the Societies that design contri-
buting to it, that proper arrangments for them
may be made in due time. Here is Elder
Campbell’s note:
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	In your interesting paper of the 1st, ult., the
Agricultural and Manufacturing Society issued
a circular to the Relief Societies throughout
the Territory, requesting their aid in contri-
buting to make the Territorial fair of 1873 a
marked success. President Woodruff and the
Board of Directors desire a report from each
Society that has taken the circular into con-
sideration, and that intends to contribute.
	They are requested to address the under-
signed,
			Robert L. Campbell,	Box	A.
						Salt Lake City.
Salt Lake City, May 8, 1873.


﻿A COMMON VICE.

	Is wastefulness a sin? If so, how very guilty,
in this respect, are Americans as a people!
Living has been so easy in nearly all portions
of this country, food so plentiful and so readily
obtained, that little or no care has been mani-
fested by the great mass of people, as to how or
whence it came. People are lavish of fuel,
lights, material for clothing, and, indeed, what-


ever is employed in keeping house; throwing
away in preparation nearly as much as is made
use of, and using twice as much as is needed of
almost every thing. Servants and children
follow in the footsteps of their masters and pa-
rents, and learn to waste and destroy enough to
support large communities, in good style, if
what is thrown away could be judiciously put
to use. Miserly covetousness is worse than
despicable; but to save and make some use of
the least article, even the smallest bit of rag
that may be ground up and made into paper, is
in no wise mean, but would be honorable in the
wives and daughters of millionaires as well as
of mechanics or laborers. The great Creator has
placed around His children the numberless
varieties of beauty and use, to cheer and glad-
den their lives; but not that they should become
idle and indifferent over them, by being abun-
dantly blessed with the good things of the
earth.
	In the midst of luxury we should seek to cul-
tivate simple habits, which are the greatest
producers of genuine happiness, longevity and
usefulness.  Children should be taught to be
less self-indulgent and more industrious than
many are; and women should at least superin-
tend their own households, and see that nothing
is left to go to waste, which might be beneficial
to some one of our Father’s creatures, if not to
themselves. No bread tastes so sweet as that
which is fairly earned; and no poverty can be
so stinging and mortifying as that which comes
of carelessness and extravagance.  Live pru-
dently and within your means, is an excellent
rule to hold to.


﻿PETITION FOR POLYGAMY.

	In this issue of the Exponent will be found
a petition purporting to be got up in Lowell,
Massachusetts, asking the Legislature of that
State to enact a law authorizing and legalizing,
under certain conditions, plural marriages.
From other newspaper sources we gather that
many of the signers of this petition are married
women, who, like Emily Faithful, see the con-
dition in which women are placed, and are
prepared to brave public prejudice in their
behalf. But apart from the reasons advanced
therein why such a proposition should receive
legislative sanction, there are still others
which might be most strongly urged. Evil
courses are so common among young men, es-
pecially in large cities, that men of pure and
blameless lives are largely in the minority.
These young men are “sowing their wild oats”
—sowing a harvest that is to produce a crop of
evils, diseases, shattered constitutions, ruind
fortunes, blighted reputations. And when they
have lived lives of intemperance and ludness
for years, then they seek fair, young, pure, vir-
gin forms for their wives; they desire youth,
and purity to minister to their vitiated senses,
and propose to increase the number of diseased,
sickly inhabitants of the earth by their union
with chaste and guileless maidens. They do
not seek wives among those whom they have
dragged down to destruction; they could not
think of associating themselves permanently
with women whose lives have been at all like
their own; but having destroyed virtue, per-
haps at the outset, having rioted with vice and
become tired of ministering to gross sensuality,
they again seek spotless virtue to ally to their
licentious, depraved lives! Are such men fit
to become the husbands of pure women, the
fathers of children borne by pure women? Yet
society, as it exists in most places in Christen-
dom, gives millions of women no choice but
to marry such men or remain single. They
must crush out, or bury beyond human sight,


every holy aspiration, for wifehood and mater-
nity, or accept the hand and share the life of
men who have been steeped in vice until they
are saturated with it. We say must do so; for,
supposing the sexes to be equal at marriage-
able age, the minority of really pure men is
confessedly so great, that no alternative is left
to the majority of women but that we have
mentioned.
	Were the Legislature of Massachusets to act
upon, this petition no one would be compelled
to adopt plural marriage; but it would leave
those free to legally enter into such marital
bonds who desired to do so; and the result
would be an improvement in the morals of
society such as few imagine. It is not alone
that it would close many avenues by which the
“social evil” is now supplied; but when young
men would discover that purity in men was at
a premium among pure women, and that mascu-
line corruption and licentiousness were not con-
doned and overlooked, as at present, the very
instincts of their natures would prompt them
to cultivate a purity now as rare as it is com-
mendable when found.
	Has Massachusetts virtue enough to favorably
receive the proposition?


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS. 
	
	Two more interesting letters from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the Exponent.
	The latest heard from the Palestine party,
Mr. F. Little and Miss Little had reached Lon-
don, on their way home; While President
Smith and the rest were en route to Vienna,
where they expected to arrive in time for the
opening of the World’s Fair, on May 1st.
	The present number closes the first volume
and the first year of the Exponent. The sup-
port which it has received during the past year
has been very encouraging, and its friends hope
that, during the year which will be entered upon
with the next issue, that support will be con-
tinued and increased.
	The Semi-weekly and express line, which
has but a short time been established and in
running order, between St. Charles, Bear Lake
Valley and Evanston, on the U. P. R. R., is with-
out doubt, a source of much satisfaction to the
inhabitants of that portion of country, which
has been so often and so long, comparatively
isolated.
	Where are all the girls and women whose
business it is to go to service in families? Can
it be that they are all finding homes of their
own to keep, either by marrying or by becom-
ing possessed of fortunes which enable them to
live like the “gentle folks?”  There are more
calls for female help in families than people
who are not supposed to have an acquaintance
with everybody’s business might imagine.
	Several communications, have been re-
ceived, which we are obliged to hold over for
want of space to insert them.  It is gratifying
that so many of the intelligent women of Utah
find pleasure in contributing to the Exponent
and filling its columns with useful and agree-
able reading matter; but the paper is too dim-
inutive for their wants, and once more we
solicit all its friends to assist us in the increase
of its circulation that means may be obtained
sufficient for an enlargement to be made.
	Pleasure Excursions and “May walks”
have been given to the young folks of some of
the schools and different associations, during
sunny days,within the last fortnight; and gen-
eral satisfaction seems to be the result with
both the children and adult participants. The
present month is the most favorable season for
[new column]
such times of recreation and enjoyment, as the
excessive heat of the sun, when Summer is here,
will render outdoor exercise less delightful.
	The kind of small-pox which has raged to
some extent for a considerable length of time,
in this city, seems to have been of a fatal
nature in most instances where it has appeared.
It has been the occasion of much regret and
sympathy, among others, to the friends of the
family of Brother James Bourne, three mem-
bers of which—his wife and two children—were
carried off by it within two weeks. There are
no accounts of the disease being extended at
present, and the excitement which it caused
has subsided; but caution should still be re-
garded as necessary, for prevention is much
better than cure.
	The two days’ Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held in the
new Tabernacle on the 3rd and 4th inst., accord-
ing to adjournment at the close of the April
Conference, was another occasion of beneficial
enjoyment for those Saints who were enabled
to attend. Among other interesting matters,
on Saturday, the 3rd, were presented the bonds
of the trustee-in-trust and assistant trustees of
the Church in place of President Brigham
Young, resigned. The bonds, properly signed
and delivered, were read; first that of President
George A Smith, trustee-in-trust, for $25,000,
with W. H. Hooper and H. S. Eldredge as
sureties. Each of the bonds for the assistant
trustees-in-trust were for $10,000, the principals
and sureties being as follows: John Sharp,
principal; William Jennings and John Sharp,
junr., sureties. Joseph W. Young, principal;
Robert Gardner and Daniel D. McCarthy,
sureties. John L. Smith, principal; Jesse W.
Fox and Robert L. Campbell, sureties. Le
Grand Young, principal; Joseph Young, and
Joseph A. Young, sureties. Joseph F. Smith,
principal; L. W. Hardy and Angus M. Cannon,
sureties. John Van Cott, principal; A. C.
Pyper and David McKenzie, sureties. E. F.
Sheets, principal; W. H. Hooper and Edward
Hunter sureties. Moses Thatcher, principal;
B. Young, junr. and Thomas W. Ellerbeck,
sureties. Amos Milton Musser, principal; J.
C. Little and B. Young, junr., sureties. James
P. Freeze, principal; Horace S. Eldredge, and
Lewis S. Hills, sureties. F. A. Mitchell, prin-
cipal; Joseph Woodmansee and H. W. Naisbitt,
sureties. Thomas Taylor, principal; John R.
Winder and John C. Cutler, sureties.


The greatest natural bridge in the world
is the Natural Bridge over Cedar Creek, in
Virginia. It extends across a chasm eighty
feet in width and two hundred and fifty
feet in depth, at the bottom of which the
creek flows.
	In an Illinois coal mine, recently, while
the workmen were “running a fault,” they
came upon a tree, supposed to be black
walnut, imbedded in the bed of coal, five
hundred yards below the surface, and from
two hundred to two hundred and fifty feet
from the mouth of the drift.
	Boston keeps within the city limits 2,000
cows. Milk for the city also comes from
other parts of the State, and even from
Maine and New Hampshire. There are
about 600 wholesale and 4,000 retail
dealers. Nearly 13,000 cans of milk, con-
taining in all about 97,000 quarts, are de-
livered daily.
	The ladies of the Woman’s Foreign
Missionary Society of Philadelphia in June
last undertook to raise $10,000 to buy Wood-
stock—a home and school for missionaries’
children in North India.  They have
accomplished their task, having raised the
sum needed.


[For	the	Exponent.
			A HAPPY MEDIUM.

	It happened to be my fortune, a few, days
since, to listen to an animated conversation
between two young persons of opposite sex,
in which the natural advantages of man and
woman were contrasted.  The subject was
practically introduced by a couple of uncon-
cerned pedestrians, a man and a woman,
passing along, and pausing to rest; the man
very leisurly seating himself upon a low
fence, while etiquette forbade his com-
panion to do otherwise, than stand. The
young man remarked the advantages, in
such a case, which a gentleman possesses
over a lady. The young woman observed
that such advantages had been created
merely by foolish tradition; that nature and
common sense had had nothing to do with
it She considered that a woman appeared
quite as respectable in any position of ease
and comfort as a man did; it was an un-
generous and unjust age which had recog-
nized such inequality, and any action which
would be improper or ungraceful in a
woman was also improper and undignified
in a man. The gentleman politely remon-
strated, saying that woman was naturally
more refined and chaste, in manner as
in disposition, than man could be; it was,
therefore, less becoming in her to throw off
that desirable attribute of which she had
inherited a double portion; entitling her to
superior respect and consideration, than it
was in man not to cultivate more assiduously
a quality which he had received in less
abundance. Yet, the lady argued, admit-
ting that in a measure her companion’s views
were correct, if independence in thought
and action could be applauded as praise-
worthy in man, why should not woman
seek to assimilate, in, as, much as man
was the acknowledged superior? It was
the brave, proud spirit of self-reliance and
self-discipline which woman found in man
to reverence and bow to.  Why should she
not strive to obtain the same, that her
powers might be no longer inferior, but
equal with man’s? The gentleman allowed
that she should, so far as she might do so
without laying aside that matchless, primi-
tive grace so peculiar to herself—that
clinging, confiding trust and gentleness
which, of all her attractions, was most ad-
mirable in the eyes of man, and rendered
her most endearing and sacred to him in all
respects. But man, he said, should also
cultivate, as much as possible—without
divesting his nature of the smallest noble
and manly characteristic—that patient, lov-
ing tenderness so largely possessed by
woman, that he might be enabled the more
readily to sympathize with her feelings and
enter into her anticipations and desires.
With this the lady agreed, saying, that in
the Lord, and in nature, the man was not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man; and if, while woman seeks to
overcome her whimsical vanities and be
more wise but not less womanly, man would,
endeavor to dispense with his prejudices
and become more charitable, all would, by
and by, work together in blissful conformity,
having reached a happy medium.
	Here the conversation dropped, but the
subject might be treated upon much more
fully, and is a good one for some of the
fastidious young gentlemen, and also ladies
of the day to reflect upon.
								L. L.


﻿There are forty-two ladies in the literary
departmentof the University at Ann Arbor;
medical department, thirty-seven; law de-
partment, four; total, eighty-three.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent.
TO THE SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SO-
			  CIETY. 
			    ——
Sisters! let’s be up and doing, all our hands may
	   find to do,
Let us to the world be proving, to our trust we can
	   be true.
'Tis no light or trifling duty, 'tis no empty name we
	   bear,
The poor, the lame, the distant Saints, too, of our
	   time must have a share.

Let us not sit idly dreaming, while the precious
	   hours pass by,
Life with duties now is teeming let them not neglected
	   lie.
Let us seek the poor and needy, do them all the good
	   we can,
Knowing though each hour is needed, life at best is
	   but a span.

Let us seek to know each member, what they have,
	   and what they need,
Not alone their earthly comforts but to mental wants
	   give heed;
Some there are though having plenty,  yet are
	   stretched on beds of pain,
Wishing in their hours of anguish, some kind friend 
	   would “come again;"

And by words of love, and kindness, while the heavy
	  hours away,
Draw their thoughts from earth to heaven, till the
	  dove of peace holds sway.
It is thought a noble action, aiding sufferers in dis-
	  tress,
And to sooth the sick with kindness should be viewed
	  as nothing less.

Every good and worthy offering, always brings its
	  own reward,
“Every kind act to my brethren, is done to me,"
	  saith Christ the Lord.
Let us ever strive to walk in footstep of the pure
	  and true,
That the light of God’s good Spirit, may illume life’s
	  journey through.
						     MRS. A. RANDALL.
SPANISH FORK, April 22nd, 1873.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			    ——
	Damascus, Syria, March 17, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
 In my last I left you at Nazareth.  Our
encampment was near a Greek Church, and
the next day being Sunday, soon after sun-
rise, I strolled in the direction, and seeing
the people gathering, went in where a large
congregation appeared devoutly worshiping.
Unlike the Roman, the Greek Catholics
perform their services in the language un-
derstood by the people, in modern Greek,
and the difference in effect is strikingly
visible in the countenances of the congrega-
tion. After listening some time to services,
to me unintelligible—witnessing the usual
ceremonies of kissing the picture of Jesus
and his mother—sprinkling with “Holy
water” and kneeling and bowing before the
cross; and seeing no one but myself in
foreign costume, lest my presence should
be intrusive, I withdrew, feeling thankful
to God for the gifts and ordinances of the
Everlasting Gospel—particularly that of
baptism for the dead.
  In my preceding letter I mentioned the
dirty streets and dreary houses of this city;
and while in the church, I noticed, as I
have frequently done, what seems to be
general characteristic, i. e., the appearance
of personal cleanliness being in contrast
with the intolerably negligent and uncom-
fortable looking houses the people occupy;
this with both Turks and Arabs, but
particularly the latter. I have, in a great
many instances, seen men dressed in white
from the waist to the ancle; and women from
the top of the head to the feet (and it was
really white) come out of the most untidy
and forbidding appearing dwellings; huts
made of mud with a small opening for
entrance, and entirely without windows—
groups of women in white seat themselves
on the ground, which they do as readily as
[new column]
﻿we do on chairs and sofas, and yet look as
clean as though the soil of earth was not
adhesive.
  But a spectacle of a different kind was pre-
sented before me while at Nazareth.  A
short distance from our encampment, were
a large company of Armenians on pilgrim-
age to Jerusalem, some of them partially
tented—others grouped in squads under the
precarious shelter of projecting rocks at the
foot of a ledge that lined the mountain side.
  They were forty days from Armenia;
their appearance was deplorable. Prompted
both by sympathy and curiosity, I walked
into their midst and the closer view in-
creased my heart ache for poor degraded
humanity! Old, middle aged, and young,
down to the little infant, miserably clad,
and truly the personification of filth. The
sight was a sad picture, for the expression of
their faces corresponded with their outward
condition. Their cooking utensils were few
and simple, and what I saw of their food,
seemed less comfortable and sufficient than
their clothing. But, whatever might have
been the difference in circumstances and
motives, these poor Armenians held one
object in common with us—we were coming
from—they were going to Jerusalem.
  Monday morning, the 10th of March, we
left Nazareth, passing over the hills and
plains of Galilee; saw many of the wander-
ing Arabs, or Bedouins, who live in movable
habitations, and change from place to place,
as suits convenience, for grazing and agri-
cultural purposes. Many of them have large
herds of sheep, goats and cattle; cultivate
the ground to some extent; and raise wheat,
barley, beans, and sometimes other vege-
tables. Their houses, or rather tents, are
constructed of flags made into long plats,
similar to rush window blinds, but of a much
coarser and stronger texture, and sufficiently
wide for the height of the building. These
are set upright in a square form or other-
wise to suit the taste or convenience of the
occupants, and covered with a very coarse
kind of haircloth which is said to be imper-
vious to water. These tents can be taken
down at pleasure and rolled in packages for
transit. Sometimes large villages are built
in this manner; we passed through one,
quite extensive, with some of these build-
ings in course of erection. I noticed several
large ones that were connected together in
line, making a long row, in front of which
were several large soup kettles, and the
apartments seemed to be filled with occupants
—every appearance indicated a community
style of living. I was quite amused with a
churning operation. The cream or milk,
whichever it might be, was confined in a
goat skin which was placed on a rudely
constructed swing, out of doors, and a 
woman was keeping it in motion, back and
forth. These Arabs are apparently of a
lower grade, and are much less cleanly in
appearance than those who live in mud
huts. In going by rail from Alexandria to
Cairo, we found the country dotted with
mud towns and villages. We passed
through one of very small extent, said to
contain twenty thousand inhabitants. It is
very surprising to see how compactly these
people are stowed in their small houses, and
how closely the houses are huddled together.
  I now leave you on the beautiful Sea of
Galilee—a place of more than ordinary in-
terest in Bible history.
					    Eliza R. Snow.


BEYROUT, March 24, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:-
	Aside from the deep interest with which
sacred history clothes the Sea of Galilee, it
is beautiful.  We camped within the walls of
[new column]
﻿Tiberias, a small town, situated on the sea
shore, As I walked along the edge of the 
water, a young daughter of Judah came—
filled a large earthen jar with sea-water—
placed it on her head, according to the
usual custom, and started home. Prompted
by her gracious and friendly greeting, I
followed, and by signs (How much bother
that confounding at Babel has occasioned!)
made her understand that I wished to
accompany her home. She seemed pleased,
and on entering, set her jug down in the
front room, and leading the way into the
second and only remaining one—which was
parlor, sitting and sleeping room, as I under-
stood by being shown where the mats for
lodging were deposited—she introduced me
to an elderly woman who received me very
cordially. The room was very small and
neatly spread with rush or flag rugs over
the earth floor. The two Jewesses motioned
for me to follow them through a small open-
ing—the only one except the door—into a
little garden containing a few “potatoes,”
one or two low trees, a few shrubs, mint,
etc. I had some pretty wild flowers in my
hand, which the young lady threw down
very significantly, at the same time plucking
and presenting me green branches from the
most flourishing shrub in the yard—to this,
although destitute of fruit and flowers, they
seemed to attach a great deal of consequence.
The garden, or yard, had no egress but the
one through which we entered, consequently
we crawled back into the house, when the
young Jewess took me across the street into
another house where we found a neatly
dressed Jewess, with but one room, and I
think at least one-third of that was appro-
priated to donkeys, their portion being
defined by a narrow ditch, which served as
a trough, in which they were feeding. She
was tending an infant, and rising, saluted
me politely and urged me to occupy her
stool which was the only seat present. The
floor was hard, smooth ground, destitute of
carpet or rug—an iron tripod about five
inches high was standing over a fire in the
lady’s portion of the room, on which some-
thing was boiling; and, although whatever
smoke existed, must have circulated through
the room, it was not perceptible. Despite
all of the peculiarities, there was an order
and an air of neatness in this house that
really surprised me. I give these descrip-
tions as samples—these houses appearing to
be about the average type. The population
of Tiberias is mostly Jews, and it has the
distinguishing honor of being the cleanest
town in Palestine.
  The next day President Smith, Professor
Carrington, brother Jennings and two
American gentlemen traveling with us,
wishing to enjoy a boat-ride on the sea, were
rowed across to the mouth of the Jordan,
supposed to have been near the locality of
Chorazin and Bethsaida, while the rest of
the party preferred riding on horseback to
the place of destination, occupying two
hours along the sea side. We passed the
ruins of Magdala, said to be the place where
Mary Magdalene formerly lived, and pre-
ceded the boaters nearly four hours. In
the mean time, Miss Little and myself took
a sea-side walk in search of shells for our
friends at home; but after promenading the
shore and scrutinizing the water’s edge for a
long distance, pronounced it a failure—
selected a few pebbles and returned to camp,
tired, if not fatigued..
	Of the Sea of Galilee, I shall probably say
more hereafter. At this point the snow-
crowned Mount Hermon is in plain sight,
the spur of which we traveled over on the
14th after encamping at Banias, the ancient


﻿Caesarea Phillipi the preceding night.  We
ascended to the height of five thousand feet,
over the roughest passes and trails imagin-
able—sometimes over rocks, apparently as
smooth as glass, and the greatest wonder
was, that our animals kept in standing posi-
tion. But they are trained to rocky, difficult
passes—they know but little of roads; this I
learned after leaving Damascus, from which
place to Beyrout is a splendid macadamized
road, on which between these two points,
the “Diligence” for passengers, and a mail
coach run daily. Until on this road, I had
not discovered that my horse was skittish,
but here—feeling out of its latitude, it was
afraid of everything, and although I had to
be all the time on the watch, I was much
amused; the rest of the animals manifested
in a greater or less degree the same strange-
ness of feeling.
  Before we reached Damascus, for a long
distance the way was lined on each side
with fields of grape- vines, apparently well
cultivated.   We rode through the city and
camped on an open square washed by the
beautiful river Albano; and the next morn-
ing I expressed my willingness to admit the
statement that Damascus keeps forty thou-
sand dogs—their noise in proof.
  Here as has been customary with the
party whenever consistent we had the Sac-
rament administered on Sunday.   Monday
we accompanied President Smith on a visit
to the sub-American Consul, N. Meshaka, a
native Assyrian, who spoke English toler-
ably.  He received us with marked kind-
ness—asked President Smith many questions
concerning our people—politics, religion, etc.
—spent an hour or more in earnest conver-
sation, and expressed himself much gratified
with the call which he returned in the
evening.   Before we left, an attendant
served to each a tiny cup of coffee contain-
ing about half a gill, which, as a national
token of friendship, courtesy prompted us
to accept.
					Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			    ——
  Poultry Keeping for Women.—There
are many women who, especially within
the last half-dozen years, while the price of
eggs has been so high, make money much
faster by tending poultry than by sewing.
It is an occupation especially suited to
women, because it involves patience and
constant details rather than strength.  Then,
again, the hardest thing for many men to
learn, in handling either poultry or bees, is
gentleness. How many times we have seen
boys, and men with no more sense than boys,
jerk hens roughly from their nests, enter
the poultry houses abruptly and frighten
the occupants till they rush into the furthest
corner, and keep the poultry community in
constant agitation and distress.   But all
domestic animals appreciate the manners of
female attendants, when they are fortunate
enough to be cared for by them. Now there
are women gardeners and florists who, by
commendable industry and business quali-
ties, have risen to eminence in these callings,
and while one of the most successful bee-
keepers in the world is a woman, we hope
to see others give poultry more attention
than it has hitherto received.   Aside from
profit, the keeping of fine poultry for fancy,
is elegant pastime, very popular with Eng-
lish ladies, and we see no reason why the
fashion should not be adopted in this
country.—Ex.
  Lemon Cheesecakes.—Simmer together
In a sauce-pan a pound of loaf-sugar, four
eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the rind
[new column]
cut very small. When the materials have
become of the consistence of honey, pour
into a jar and preserve for use.
  Lemon and Suet Pudding.—Take some
suet and cut it small, currants, sugar, grated
lemon-peel, ground ginger, eggs, and bread-
crumbs; mix them into a paste, roll them
into balls, tie up in a buttered cloth, and boil
them for twenty minutes.
  Sugar Biscuits.—Mix two pounds of
flour and the same quantities of powdered
sugar and good butter with nutmeg, cloves,
and mace. Make them into paste with some
milk or cream.  Roll into a thin layer, cut
into squares, prick them with holes, and
bake them on tin plates.
  Vienna Cream.—The whites of two
eggs, two ounces of red currant jelly, two
ounces of raspberry jelly, one ounce of sifted
loaf-sugar; put all into a bowl, and beat
until it rises into a thin froth; serve in a
glass dish or custard cups. Though of quite
a dark shade of red when beginning to whip
it, it becomes paler and paler as the froth
rises, and when finished is a very pale
shade of pink.    Apricot jelly can be used
also.
  Head Cheese.—Boil in somewhat salted
water the ears, skin, feet and a proportion
of the sides of the hog, till the meat drops
off or the flesh is quite soft. - Take out and
chop, not so fine as for sausage; season with
pepper, salt, cloves and herbs; mix well to-
gether, and put in a pot or vessel with a
weight on it. When needed, it can be cut
in slices and eaten cold.
  Removal of Ink Spots.—When of long
standing, it is difficult to get them out,
since the iron has become thoroughly per-
oxidized, and must be reduced. The follow-
ing recipe will be found worthy of trial:
Water, one pint; hydrochloric acid, seven
pennyweights.  Moisten the spot with this
solution thoroughly until the color disap-
pears, and rinse with water.
  Felon on the Finger.—Many persons
are liable to extreme suffering from felons.
These afflictions not unfrequontly oc-
casion permanent crippling of the mem-
bers affected. The following simple pre-
scription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock
salt, such as is used for salting down beef or
pork; dry it in an oven; then pound it fine,
and mix it with spirits of turpentine in
equal parts; put it in a rag and wrap it
round the parts affected, and, as it gets dry,
put on more, and in twenty-four hours we
are cured—the felon will be dead. It will
do no harm to try it.
  Cancers are prevented from breaking
out and are scattered by the application of
Winter Green oil.
  To cleanse Closets, butteries, or other
rooms from foul smells, burn coffee, which
is also a disinfectant of contagious disease.
  A pretty window ornament is easily
made by placing in the interstices of a wet
sponge, grains of wheat, rye, peas or any
similar plant, and hanging it-up in the
window, where the plants will very soon
begin to spray out, and after a little
time you have a beautiful green, growing
ball suspended by a cord or ribband from
the top of your window frame.


﻿SEVERAL mercantile gentlemen of this
city, admiring the qualities of Miss Mary A.
Keyes as displayed in saving several of her
comrades at the late fire in Hanover Street,
have subscribed to give her a full mercan-
tile education.  This is equally creditable
to both parties.  “The tools to those who
can use them.”—“Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.


﻿WOMAN PRINTERS.
			 ——
The following from the New York Sun
of a late date, commends itself to all inter-
ested in woman’s work.  The point made
relative to women not being employed on
morning papers, shows the necessity for
women making work for themselves “at
case,” in which they would notbe compelled
to be out at unseasonable hours, nor be sub-
jected to a task which tests the strength of
the strongest men:
  “The subjoined communication not only
relates to a subject of abiding interest, but
it indicates that its author is in some dis-
tress:
  'To the Editor of the Sun.
  Sir: Will not the editor of the Sun give
employment to a few working women as
compositors, who desire to earn their daily
bread honestly, or some of the advocates of
working women who are continually preach-
ing but never practice what they preach?
Are we to starve because we have the mis-
fortune to be women?
  Please insert this, and possibly some one
of those publishing papers and advocating
the working women’s cause may give us
employment.
						Compositors.’
New York, April 26.
  We cheerfully make room for the fore-
going letter, and earnestly commend it to the
attention of all whom it concerns; but it is
impossible for us to give employment to its
authors.  The compositors of a morning
newspaper must of necessity be men.   All
the labor is performed in the night, and
extends to a late hour after midnight.
Women are not robust enough to bear this
sort of work; nor would it be convenint for
them to be going home so very early in
the morning.
  Our correspondent writes in an unjust
spirit. Those who advocate the cause of the
working women are under no obligation to
give them employment, unless it happens
to be profitable to do so.  The relations of
business and labor are not relations of senti-
ment or charity, and if a man thinks it
desirable that women should have a greater
variety of occupations he does not thereby
become bound to hire any number of women
as laborers when he has no labor for them-
to perform.  If there are any advocates of
women’s rights who contend for more than
justice toward women, those advocates are
mistaken.   All that society is bound to
afford any of its members is a fair and equal
chance in the battle of life; and. this is true 
of women as it is of men.”


There has lately died, at Florence, a lady
well known in the world of letters, though
more remarkable for the warmth of attach-
ment she inspired in men and women of
acknowledged genius, than for the fame of
her own intellectual gifts. Miss Isa Blagden,
the authoress of “Agnes Tremorne,” “The
Cost of a secret,” “The Crown of a Life;”
and many brilliant papers in “Fraser,” the
“Cornhill,” and “All the Year Round,” was
linked to Mr. Browning and his illustrious
wife by the ties of the closest friendship. She
nursed the poetess in her final illness, and
performed the same loving office for Theo-
dosia Trollope, to whose memory, as to that
of Mrs. Browning, grateful Florence has
erected a commemorative tablet. It may
be added that her charitable presence
gladdened the last moments of many obscure
sufferers, in the fair city where she lived
and died, and where she will long be
remembered as a conspicuous and honored
figure.


- WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOZART. 
  	 	     —— 
  BY MRS. S. M. C. PERKINS.
			   —
   Translated from the French.
One day as Mozart was seated in his study,
in a profound reverie he heard a carriage
stop at his door. A stranger was announced
who asked to speak with him. 
	He was an aged map, very well dressed,
of noble imposing manners.  He said to the
composer:
	“I am commissioned by a great man to
come and find you.” 
	“The name of this man, if you please?”
said Mozart.
	“He does not wish to be known.”
	“Very, well; what are his wishes?”.
	“He has lost a very dear friend, whose
memory will be forever precious to him.
He wishes to commemorate her death, every
year, by a solem service, and he wants you
to compose a requiem for the occasion.”
	Mozart was deeply impressed by these
words spoken so solemnly, and by the air of
mystery that seemed to pervade the inter-
view. He promised to compose the requiem.
The stranger continued:
	“Put to this work your entire genius, for
you compose it for a connoisseur in music.”
	“So much the better,” said Mozart
	“How much time, do you want for the
task?”	
	“Four weeks.”  	
	“Well, I will come for it in four weeks.
What will be your price?”
	“One hundred ducats.”
	The stranger counted out the money upon
the table and disappeared. Mozart remained
plunged in deep thought for a few moments,
then called for pen, ink and paper and
began to write the requiem.  Notwithstand-
ing the remonstrances of his wife, he wrought
upon it night and day.
	But his body, already feeble, could not
endure this continual strain, and he finally
fell fainting at his task.  Then he was
obliged to rest. Several days after, his wife
sought to divert his mind from its sadness
by some playful remark.  He replied earn-
estly:
	“One thing is certain;  I am composing
my own requiem, it will serve to perpetuate
my own-memory.”
	In proportion as he wrought, his strength
diminished from day to day, and the
requiem advanced very slowly. The four
weeks were finally gone and the stranger
returned.
	“It has been impossible for me to keep my
word;” said Mozart, sadly.
	“Never mind,”said the man, “how much
more time do you require?”
	“I want four weeks more. The work has
inspired me with deeper interest than I
supposed, and I have given to it more study
than I intended.”
	“In that case it is right that I increase
the price. Here are fifty ducats more for
your pay.”
	In astonishment Mozart asked, “Who are
you?”
	“That is nothing to the purpose. I will
return in four weeks.” 
	As the stranger left the house, Mozart
called a servant and requested him to .follow
this extraordinary man and find out who he
was; but the blundering man soon returned,
saying that he could .find no trace of him.
	Poor Mozart had conceived the idea that
this stranger was no ordinary mortal, but was
one of his friends in the immortal world,
sent to warn him of his approaching death.
He applied himself with redoubled ardor to
his requiem, which he regarded as the most
enduring monument of his genius. He
[new column]
fainted many times at his toil. Finally it
was accomplished before the expiration of
the four weeks.
	The stranger came for it at the given 
time; but Mozart was dead.


﻿REFORM IN DRESS.
			 ——
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
   As an advocate for every principle ad- 
vocated for the good of mankind (and woman
kind,) I wish to say a word upon the already
well worn subject of woman’s dress. While
watching the toilet making of a young lady,
whose dressing room I was invited into, not
long since, I could not withhold the excla-
mation, “How can our Father be so merci-
ful! Why are we allowed to live at all,
when we tamper and trifle with the laws of
nature as we do?”  Yet the young lady
asserted, as nearly all fashionable ladies
will, that the prodigious roll which she
fastened upon her head was not heavy, and
that her corsets were not at all tight; and
as we walked down the street, it was
not the high heels and close fit of her boots
that made it painful for her to walk, she
never was able to walk with any comfort in
her life!
	I have reflected, that the very plainest
and neatest costumes worn by American
ladies at the present day, might be much
improved in comfort and convenience with-
out detracting from their appearance. If
half the weight of clothing that is now
generally worn, suspended from the hips
instead of the shoulders as it should be,
could be dispensed with, that would cer-
tainly be a great relief.   And, again; I do
not know of a style of dress in which a
woman can appear respectable on the street
if the wind is blowing.  We nearly all wear
skirts which are so broad and long that they
flap and switch about if we happen out
in a storm, and are not half as becoming or
convenient as more closely fitting garments
would be.   And these common suits are
quite as great a hinderance in working as in
walking.   Around the kitchen stove or
grate, particularly in very busy seasons,
such as washing-day, fruit drying and pre-
serving time, making soap, etc., everything
is in the way, and a woman’s dress, if she
isn’t all the while on the look out for it, is.
catching up every particle of grease and
dirt.
	I wish that some of our sensible leading
ladies, and some of our dressmakers would
take it in hands, and appoint a committee, if
necessary, to establish some- more suitable
and pleasing costumes for the kitchen and
the street than we have at present.
					COUNTRY WOMAN.


﻿A Young girl left Lowell, Mass., two
years ago, with $500 in her pocket, and
went to Kansas and turned farmer. She
could sell out her property, this day, for
$60,000.
	A girl of thirteen recently brought to
market at Americus, Ga., a 500 pound bale
of cotton, the result of her own unaided
labor, from the plowing of the soil to the
picking and ginning.


A HOUSEHOLD   TREASURE.
			   ——
Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
   We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.
[new column]
TAYLOR & CUTLER, EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES' DRESS
﻿GOODS, which will arrive about the first of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler In New York expressly for
this trade.
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,	,	
Dealers in  Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Orders from the country solicited.
Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
General Agents for Woman's Exponent. 
H. WALLACE 
  Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
Z.  C.  M.  I.	
Retail Dry Goods Department

To meet the demand of an increasing business we
	
have added an essential addition to our

	RETAIL ROOM, 

wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.

It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants

and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics

regardless of purchase.		

	This department aims to suit the demands of all

whether in 

	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,

either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.

			NEW CLUB RATES. 

 Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication,- by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club -	-	-	-					$18	00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club  	-	-	-				 26	00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
Young, selling price, $2 50 	-	-				 34	00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club, and a superior first proof,
steel engraving of President Brigham
Young, handsomely framed, selling
price $4	-	-	-	-						48	00
Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief- Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.

