VOL. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1872	No. 8.﻿


NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Riots in Rhenish Prussia have followed
the expulsion of the Jesuits. More religion!
	The California State Fair commences
at Sacramento on the 19th and continues to
the 27th.
	The water supply of Albany is failing
and a milk famine threatens the city. A
steady flowing artesian well might avert
the danger.
	The Marquis of Lorne and other Eng-
lish noblemen take turns in preaching to
the London working classes; and they might
be much worse employed.
	With gold as the god of the world, aud
the “almighty dollar” so earnestly wor-
shipped, it is no wonder the question “Will
it pay?” is so often asked.
	A colored woman recently jerked her
arm out of joint in her religious fervor at a
camp meeting. Such exercises make
fashionable piety in some places.
	A new religious sect has sprung up in
Iowa, composed entirely of Germans, who
hold a community of property and live
under the prominent rules of the Paris Com-
munists.	
	Henry Wilson, Republican candidate
for Vice-President, admits he was a Know-
Nothing once, and, as a consequence, was
opposed to foreign born citizens holding
any office.
	The Geneva Board of Arbitration has
concluded-its labors, and the world may re-
pose in quietude for a season, the intermin-
able “Alabama” claims being at length
disposed of.
	Von Moltke sent to Thiers, with “his
compliments,” a copy of his history of the
Franco-German war. How the grim old
strategist must have chuckled at the sat-
urnine humor of such a present so for-
warded!
	Pere Hyacinth, the famous preacher
of Notre Dame, in Paris, has broken his
views of celibacy, as well as broken with
the Pope, and like Martin Luther has mar-
ried. Sensible Hyacinth! he may now
become a pere in reality.
	A Congress of the Internationalists sat
at the Hague early this month, and decided
that the general Council of the society
should be located in New York. The
struggle between capital and labor in this
country will ripen as a result.
	Maine election occurred on the 9th,
and the heaviest vote for years was polled.
The Republicans carried the State by a
largely reduced majority when compared
with the last vote given as heavy as the one
this year, and that was in 1868.
	The New York “Tribune” speaks of the
“Woman’s Journal” as being “conducted
by several very estimable ladies of both
sexes.” It has, therefore, the advantage
of a large number of other journals, that
are conducted by ancient grannies of the
masculine sex.
	Queen Victoria is a grandmother again.
The daughters of this august lady, like
their mother, have not learned the fashion-
able crime of murdering their unborn off-
spring. They pattern after a noble and
[next column]
virtuous mother, and make amiable and
matronly wives.
	Joseph Jefferson, so lately nearly blind
from the use of a powerful light which he
was accustomed to have play upon his face
in “Rip Van Winkle,” is again able to fol-
low his profession. A Iess brilliant light so
employed may save to the stage, for years,
one of its leading ornaments.
	An “Autobiography of Satan” has
been prepared for the press by Dr. Beard,
of England; but the learned doctor does
not claim that it is his own biography; he
only edits it. The inference may be drawn
that he was on good terms with the charac-
ter whose personal history is to be given to
the world.
	The re-election of Grant is advocated by
Wendell Phillips, who also admits that he
was in error when the mission of the Re-
publican party was said, by him, to he at
an end. The “national scold" may live to
acknowledge that he has committed other
blunders quite as serious as that one, or per-
haps more so.
	“Can Editors be manufactured?” is a
question now stirring certain journalistic
circles. Of course they can, if there is the
right material at hand to manufacture them
of. The difficulty now is that the average
material used is left in an unmanufactured
condition, and in working itself into shape
it often presents a strange mass of incon-
gruous development.
	In the potteries at Leeds, England, one
thousand women are employed, working
nine hours a day, at the rate of sixty cents
a week. Some of our charity-loving neigh-
bors, who wish to donate a portion of their
means for the relief of the “down-trodden
women of Utah,” might do good by making
up contributions for the aid and encourage-
ment of such female laborers, who are wear-
ing life away in semi-slavery, with, appar-
ently, no hope of brighter days.
	Berlin has been in a blaze of military
glory and frantic enthusiam over three Em-
perors meeting in cordial greeting and im-
perial pomp. How many of those whose
voices called forth echoes from the blue
vault above, in response to their thoughtless
and wild cheers, will find bloody graves as
a result of the crowned heads of Germany,
Russia and Austria thus meeting? Am-
bition continues its promptings, and what
diplomacy cannot reach in the way of con-
quest, the cannon and the bayonet will be
invoked to accomplish.
	“Agassiz thinks the jelly fish has an
Immortal soul” sneeringly says an exchange.
And why not? Will some sage tell where
immortality terminates in the animal crea-
tion? And why should man be supposed
to be the only being endowed with immor-
tality? What kind of a heaven would it
be where men and womon would be the
only living creatures that once inhabited
earth? And what about the horses and
other members of the brute creation seen
in vision by John the Divine as inhabiting
eternity? Modern theology is a strange
bundle of crudities.
	“The appointment by the Mormons of
missionaries to evangelize Europe and the
United States looks very much like as if
[next column]
the tail was trying to wag the dog,” says
“Hearth and Home.” Just so; and so it
was felt some eighteen hundred and odd
years ago, by the pharisaic Hebrews and
the philosophers of pagan Rome, concern-
ing a few ignorant fishermen of Galilee.
Yet now those same fishermen are canon-
ized by the most powerful nations of the
world. Time is a great revolutionizer, and
that which is most derided to-day may be-
come in a few years most popular and
sought after.
	A convention of extreme, or Bourbon,
Democrats has been held in Louisville, Ky.,
to nominate still other men as candidates to
“rule over us,” if the people would so will
it. They rejected Greeley and repudiated
the action of the Democracy at Baltimore;
and, after nominating Charles O’Conor, of
New York, and John Quincy Adams, of-
Massachusetts, for President and Vice
President, their candidates declined the
honor, while endorsing the movement; and
the convention dissolved determined to vote
for their chosen ones whether they accepted
or not. Politicians do many knavish things,
many dishonorable things, and from this
Louisville convention it is fair to infer they
are capable of many exceedingly silly
things.
	The “Golden Age” is authority for say-
ing that the Republican Executive Com-
mittee at Washington has issued a confiden-
tial circular to certain prominent members
of the Woman’s Rights party, to organize
Grant and Wilson clubs and thus work for
the re-election of General Grant. And
there are among them those who will snap
at the bait, although the party, with a large
working majority in Congress, could easily
have passed an Amendment to the Consti-
tution, any time in the last four years, to
make woman suffrage a part of the supreme
law of the land, and have sent it to the va-
rious States for ratification. Rut they did
not; and the quasi recognition of woman’s
worth, contained in the Philadelphia plat-
form, was no more than a shallow attempt
to secure the influence of the Woman’s
party in the Presidential campaign.
	The steamer “Metis” struck by a
schooner off Rhode Island,and sinking, with
a loss of life very great but its extent not
fully known; the burning of the “Bien-
ville” off Central America, between thirty
and forty more souls being hurried into
eternity; and the burning of the “Ameri-
ca” in Chinese waters, with a loss of over a
million dollars in property and eighteen
lives; are some of the marine disasters re-
corded within the past two weeks. We
boast of the advance made in science and
art, of how the elements can be controlled
or resisted, what wonderful appliances are
ready to prevent accidents, casualties and
disasters; yet the sum total of the loss of
life and property from such causes would
stagger belief if computed in the aggregate.
But mankind in their high-mindedness and
pride will not believe that the Eternal is
speaking to thorn in signs of the times, with
the elements as His agents, fulfilling the
prophecies and pointing to the near future
when He will make bare His arm in power
for the accomplishment of His fore-ordained
purposes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

Strange, we never prize the music
	Till the sweet-voiced birds are flown;
Strange that we should slight the violets,
	Till the lovely flowers are gone;
Strange that summer skies and sunshine
	Never seem one-half so fair,
As when winter’s snowy pinions,
	Shake the white down in the air.

Lips from which the seal of science,
	None but God can roll away,
Never blossomed of such beauty,
	As adorns the mouth to-day;
And sweet words that freight our memory,
	With their beautiful perfume,
Come to us in sweeter accents,
	Through the portals of the tomb.

Let us gather up the sunbeams,
	Lying all around our path;
Let us keep the wheat and roses,
	Casting out the thorns and chaff;
Let us find our sweetest comfort,
	In the blessings of the day,
With a patient hand removing
	All the briers from our way.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. Amy L.Bigler, Secretary of the F.R.
Society of Nephi, Juab county, sends us the
following, dated August 29th:
	It is now four years since the organiza-
tion of our Female Relief Society. Since
that time we have been trying to do all we
could to assist the poor, and to do our duty
in blessing those who have required a word
of counsel from us. We have one of the
best of Presidents, Mrs. Amelia Golds-
brough. We have not handled much means,
but have tried to do the best we could with
what we have had. We own one house and
lot in the north part of town, a building
spot on Main street, in the centre of town,
and a good portion of material for building
on the lot; have the foundation laid, and
expect to put up a good house this fall.
Have given $400.13 to the poor, and $30 to
the Emigration fund. Have received in all,
since the Society was organized, $836.63.

MINUTES OF A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE F. R. SOCI-
				ETIES OF PROVO.
			Meeting House, Sep. 5, 1872.
	Present, President A. O. Smoot, Bishops
Tanner, Scott, Follett and Johnson. Presi-
dent Smoot was chosen to preside.
	After the usual ceremonies of singing
and prayer, President Smoot said he met
Sister E. R. Snow in Salt Lake city, can-
vassing for students in view of opening a
school of medicine and surgery for the in-
struction of females; that those possessed
of nerve, energy and ambition for such a
laudable life, might have opportunities of
qualifying themselves. He had promised
his support by laying the matter before the
ladies of Provo, which he proposed to do
to-day. He suggested that suitable persons
be selected to attend that school. This
idea was already in practical operation in
the east, and why should not the women
of Utah take measures for gaining a knowl-
edge of the physical organization of the
human system, especially that of the fe-
males, that the ladies of our community
might receive, when necessary, medical or
surgical treatment from those of their own
sex? He said, furthermore, that the right
of franchise would prove a great blessing
in aiding the ladies to assert their right to
hold public office, and was anxious to see
them take an interest in all branches of co-
operation, that principle being one of the
stepping-stones to the Order of Enoch. It
was also their privilege to assist in emigrat-
ing the poor by enriching the P. E. Fund.
He alluded to the duties of the F. R. Socie-
ties in their administrations to the poor,
[next column]
and said theirs was a noble calling of love
and mercy, and in their appointments they
receive a portion of the priesthood of God.
He also touched on the responsibilities of
maternity in connection with the knowledge
of the gospel and its covenants. The
mother has the molding of the character of
her offspring; and mothers should realize
this in its keenest sense. The immorality
and waywardness of youth to a great ex-
tent are owing to a false sympathy or a
lack of the performance of their duty, by
parents. The Sunday school was one of the
great helps which should be encouraged as
a safe-guard by parents. The influence of
woman should be exerted for promoting the
happiness and good of the community in
which she lives. He continued his exor-
tation by urging the necessity of subscrib-
ing, “one and all,” for the EXPONENT, it
being a powerful advocate for the principles
of our religion. The “Juvenile Instructor”
was another medium through which our
youth would receive the principles of life
and salvation, and should be in every family.
He also solicited all to take an interest in
the coming Territorial Fair.
	Bishops Tanner, Johnson and Scott fol-
lowed in brief but pointed remarks on the
welfare of woman, her duties and responsi-
bities, and exhorted each of them to study
principles which would save and prepare
them for their true position, as help-mates
to man in the redemption of the human
race.
	It was moved by Mrs. R. A. Holden and
seconded by Mrs. M. J. Tanner, that Mrs.
L. W. Kimball forward a report of this
meeting to the Exponent for publication.
	Adjourned sine die.
					L. W. KIMBALL,
							Secretary.
	A meeting of the First Ward F. R. Soci-
ety was held on Thursday, September 5th;
sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and
others being present by invitation. After
singing and prayer, some excellent minutes
of a previous meeting were read. Mrs.
Z. D. Young first occupied a portion of time,
in encouraging the sisters of that ward, and
exhorting them to faithfulness and dili-
gence in learning and keeping the com-
mandments of God. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting, advancing and
dwelling upon many beautiful and useful
subjects in a highly instructive and im-
pressive manner. Appropriate and inter-
esting remarks were also made by Brother
Mitchell, Bishop Joseph Warburton, Mrs.
Wheeler and Miss L.  L. Greene. The
meeting was then adjourned by singing,
“For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
Our God, our fathers’ God;” and benedic-
tion by Elder Mitchell. 
	Mrs. Mary Chase is President, and Eliza-
beth Thayne, Secretary, of the First Ward
Society. There are quite a number of poor
families belonging to the ward, who are
blessed and solaced by the energies and
good feelings and acts of the Society.
	At the meeting of the F. R. Society of
the Second Ward, in this city, held Septem-
ber 6th, Mrs. Ann McGregor presided in
the absence of the President Mrs. Necolena
Olsen. Meeting opened with singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Sarah Wheeler.  Testimo-
nies were borne to the truth of the gospel,
and business was transacted in a spirited
manner. Donations were handed in for the
purpose of assisting in finishing off the
ward school house, which, added to the col-
lection made at the previous meeting,
amounted to $34, according to the report of
the Secretary, Mrs. Jane Rickard. The So-
[next column]
ciety is united, without exception, in the
work of the advancement of the cause of
truth, and they rejoice in administering to
the wants of the needy and in comforting
the bereaved.
				OGDEN, Sept. 4, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since my last, of July 20th, the Relief
Society of Ogden has held two very inter-
esting meetings. For some months past
our former President, Sister Harriet C.
Brown, has desired and requested to resign
her office, which was much regretted by
all, yet it was not that she desired to cease
her labors or her interest for the Society.
By invitation President Richards, Bishop
Herrick and Counsellor Thompson attended
and assisted to complete our reorganization,
as well as to teach us. Sister Jane S.
Richards was unanimously elected Presi-
dent, and she selected Sisters H. C. Brown
and Sarah Herrick for her counsellors, who
were accepted and sustained with the great-
est unanimity of feeling. We are not
troubled with division of sentiments, al-
though there are some who do not seem to
appreciate the value of our institution, as
the Prophet Joseph and other leading
Elders in the church must have done. Still,
we hope to see the growing interest increase
and extend until all the truly worthy are
engaged with us. On the occasion of the
setting apart of our sisters to their new
callings, we were favored with much very
interesting and profitable instruction from
the presiding brethren who met with us.
President Richards after telling us much
we ought to do, exhorted the Society to be
lively and energetic,and not to be so afraid of
doing wrong as to not dare to do right.
Bishop Herrick expressed himself much
pleased with the instructions given, and
said he was only sorry all the members of
the Societies in the county were not present
to hear them, and profit by them. He felt
to bless the Society and all God’s people.
	Sister Beckington and counsellors, from
Marriott settlement, contributed to the in-
terest of the meeting by cheering remarks.
	Sister Richards expressed herself anxious
to do good in her new position, and asked
the forbearance of the sisters towards any
apparent shortcomings on her part. Sister
Brown felt better than ever in the condition
of the Society, and the work that is before
us. Our meeting, adjourned for two weeks.
			AMELIA M. FRODSHAM,
						Secretary.


YATE, the present primate of the Church
of England, and Manning, the famous Ro-
man Catholic archbishop of Westminster,
were both pupils, forty years ago, to a cler-
gyman named Cheese, who still lives in
England. It must be gratifying to the
aged tutor to now see the fruits of his by-
gone labors. A young and gifted mission-
ary belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, last winter met, for
the first time in several years, the aged
elder who, he said, “taught him his letters.”
Tears came into the eyes of the gray-haired
man when he spoke of his former pupil,
that evening, in the family circle; partly
perhaps with the memory of what a little
“try patience” he once had to put up with.


THE telegraph which daily announces
enormous failures, seems to admonish com-
mercial men of an approaching crisis, which
gives apprehenshions of no very pleasing
results; for under the present maladmini-
stration of Government officials, a rather
calamitous financial storm is pending,
which threatens destruction to many.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE HAND OF GOD.

			TO A BEREAVED MOTHER. 
Dear sister, the evils which life’s pathway strew,
Are striving for ever the good to outdo;
They vex and torment us, afflict and bereave,
And in every manner bewilder and grieve;
They load us with burdens we scarce can sustain,
They tempt us with pleasures or torture with
	pain!
Whoever undaunted would patiently stand,
Must see and acknowledge the Great ruling Hand.

Ag’d friend, I can sympathize deeply with you :
Though young, I have had some experience too;
I have tasted, though lightly, of life’s bitter cup,
And can feel for my fellows when sadly they sup:
Your late, sudden loss is a sorrowful one—
Hereft in old age of a dutiful son;
Yet wounded and rack'd, bowing low to the sod,
'Tis good to acknowledge the kind Hand of God.

May you answer at last, “Though worn and dis-
	tressed,
With reliance unshaken still onward I’ve pressed;
Though tempted and tried, yet my heart hath not
	fail-d,
For good o’er the evil within me prevailed;
The thick c ouds of darkness were forced to de-
	part;
Warm, beautiful sunshine stole into my heart;
And there, with the balm and the chastening rod,
I saw the just Hand of a merciful God.”
									L. L.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	IT IS not so material what you say as how
you say it. And this rule works famously
in other respects, as well as in regard to
speaking. Particularly is it adapted to
cookery. As some people have the happy
art of saying almost anything and having
it sound well, while others, less gifted in
that direction, can hardly express any
thought in a pleasing manner; so some
cooks are extraordinarily fortunate in hav-
ing a way of fixing up good and tasty meals
out of a very little, while others cannot
make a palatable dish of any kind, though
they may have on hand every luxury that
could be desired for the purpose. The best
cooks are not those alone who can arrange
the greatest variety of dishes, but those
who can prepare their food, no matter what
it is, in the neatest, sweetest, and most
wholesome style. Good sweet bread and
butter alone make a far better repast than
many rich and dainty dishes improperly
prepared; and no woman, whatever her
other attainments may be, can be considered
really a good housewife, who cannot make
these two articles. Neatness and economy
should characterize all our domestic con-
cerns. Prudence does not show a lack of
generosity, but quite the reverse; but ex-
travagance and waste are next to dishonesty
and should, at all times, be carefully guarded
against. And for the sake of the children,
great pains should be taken by mothers, to
have such food on hand as is suited for their
age and physical development.
	A SENSIBLE mother makes the following
remarks upon the physical treatment of
children:
	“The physical treatment of children is
important, but simple, if one wishes to
make it so. The main points are, bathing,
regularity of eating and sleeping hours,
simplicity of food, and out-of-door exercise.
	The habit of daily bathing should not be
suspended when a child is a few months
old. It is very little trouble, and, done
handily, takes little time. My experience
has been that it is not best to bathe a child
in entirely cold water. When he is put for
the first time in a bath-tub, the water
should be of such a temperature that he
may not perceive the transition from the
air to the water. I have often heard mothers
say that their children could not be bathed;
that they screamed as soon as they touched
[new column]
the water. There are ordinarily, but two
causes for this: either that the child was
not introduced to the bath-tub early enough
in his existence, or that the temperature of
the water was such as to shock him. When
your baby is thoroughly accustomed to the
tub, you can gradually reduce the tempera-
ture of the water, until, after a few months,
you can wash him in almost cold water.
	A child should eat regularly and simply,
but should have some variety of food. I
have found that a child soon gets tired of
one article, if confined to it. Bread and
milk, bread and butter, different forms of
toasted bread, simple preparations of corn
flour, rice boiled in milk, and roasted pota-
toes make a sufficient variety. Give your
child plenty of exercise in the open air; if
you live in a city, all I can say is, do the
best you can; but if you live in the coun-
try, there is no excuse for the child not hav-
ing as much exercise as is needful. If you
have a garden, then, in summer, leave
him out all day, if he enjoys it; in winter,
wrap him up, and send him out in moder-
ate and pleasant weather.
	Never mind about his getting dirty at
play. His face will be kept pretty clean if
he spends enough time in the open air to
prevent his taking bad colds, and if you do
not allow him to eat between meals.
	It is somewhat trying to see your little
boy or girl reveling in the midst of a pile
of dirt, especially when you remember that
Mrs. Herbert or Mrs. Fortescue, whose chil-
dren always look as if they had just issued
from a bandbox retirement, may possibly
call, and gaze with virtuously reproving
eyes; but never mind that. You are living
for your child; you know what is best for
its health and happiness, and do not allow
yourself to be moved from the course which
you know to be right by any false fear or
pride.”


﻿BEAUTIFUL REMINISCENCE.
	The following sentiments were expressed
by a Scandinavian sister, in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Saturday afternoon,
August 31:
	“I cannot express my feelings as I would
like to do; but when I hear you talk of the
influence which mothers have over the
minds of their children, I can hardly repress
the tears that will come into my eyes, for I
remember my mother! And her wise coun-
sel is stamped upon my heart; and has ever
been, through all the trials and temptations
of my life, a source of comfort and of re-
straint. Although I was not more than
seven years old when I had to leave my
mother, I remember when she used to say
to me, ‘Don’t talk so much, my daugther;
the Angels don’t talk so much. Don’t
laugh loud; it is not good to laugh loud.’
And many other instructions which she
gave to her children are fastened on my
memory, and have seemed to be a safe-
guard to me in many circumstances through
which I have passed. I, therefore, know
that the words and examples of mothers
have a great weight with their children, in
forming their determinations and practices
through life. I know it is from those early
impressions, formed upon my mind, that I
was prepared to receive the light of the true
gospel; and I want to live to do something
for my mother. I am thankful that I know
the truth, and I shall never cease to praise
God and my mother!”


MISS Alice Bird has twice been invited
to a professorship in the Iowa Wesleyan
University.


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.

	ONE bad example may spoil many good
precepts.
	THE love of praise should ever be pre-
served under proper subordination to the
principle of duty.
	GLORY is well enough for a rich man, but
it is of very little consequence to a poor man
with a large family.
	TOO much asseveration gives a ground of
suspicion. Truth and honesty have no need
of loud protestations.
	THOUGH often blighted, true affection
never dies, but will glow brightly over the
graves of envy and rivalry.
	HE who treats men ingenuously, and con-
verses kindly with them, gains a good
esteem with very little expense.
	SOCRATES, though primarily attentive to
the culture of his great mind, was not neg-
ligent of his external appearance.
	OF ALL the unhappy deserters from the
path of science, none seem less able to re-
turn than the followers of indolence.
	TRUTH has force, reason authority, and
justice power; but they are without lustre if
the most graceful way and manner be want-
ing.
	WHEN we reflect upon the many dis-
tresses which abound in human life, where
so much is suffered in common, little room
is left for envy.
	EVERY day hath its pains and sorrows,
but if we look impartially around us, we
shall find that every day hath also its
pleasures and joys.
	THE greatest benefits we ever do our-
selves is in securing the greatest amount of
real happiness, which is only done by doing
good to our fellow creatures.
	IN judging of others we should always
think the best, employing the spirit of char-
ity and candor; but in judging of ourselves,
we ought to be exact and severe.
	THE hope of future happiness is a per-
petual source of consolation to the good;
under trouble it sooths their minds, amidst
temptations it supports their virtue.
	ART thou poor? Show thyself active and
industrious, peaceable and contented. Art
thou wealthy? Show thyself beneficent
and charitable, condescending and humane.
	WITH all the troubles and cares which
mortals have to encounter here, if we look
for good instead of ill, we shall find, in
nearly all conditions in life, there is more
cause for gratitude than for regret.
	THE pursuits of sensual pleasures are not
those which afford in remembrance the
most rational satisfaction; we recollect with
most pleasure the innocent, virtuous, and
honorable parts of our past lives.
	WHERE good is to be administered, it is
better to give than to receive; but where
wrong comes in, it is better to receive than
to inflict an injury; and if the perpetrator
has a conscience he is sure to suffer most.
	THE palace of virtue has, in all ages, been
represented as placed on the summit of a
hill, the ascent of which can only be per-
formed by labor, where difficulties are to be
surmounted, and a conductor is needed to
direct and aid our steps.
	THE cost of a change from heavy to light
clothing, made by a brilliant young lady,
when attending a ball, on a damp, cloudy
evening, was first a sore throat and head-
ache, followed by torturing rheumatism,and
in less than a week, amounting to a burial
outfit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1872.


SPLINTERS.

	Engine makers at Berlin are on a strike...
Ex-empress Carlotta is fast sinking at Vi-
enna, with no hopes entertained of her re-
covery......Women blacksmiths abound in
Staffordshire......A young woman in New
Orleans is hopelessly blind, from drinking
water that passed through leaden pipes......
The Spanish war schooner “Condor,” was
burned at sea on her way to Hanover; crew
and passengers were saved......A daughter
of Senator Brownlow, of Tennessee, has
been placed in a convent for attempting to
elope with a stone cutter......Horace Gree-
ley’s brother, Barnes Greeley, is said, not to
be a Greeley man......Miss Emily Faithful,
editor of the “Victoria Magazine,” Eng-
land, is coming over to America, by invita-
tion, to see and lecture us.....The Sultan has
sent to the ex-Empress Eugenie a magnifi-
cent sapphire surrounded by large brilliants,
valued at $15,000......The French Prince
Imperial has obtained permission of Queen
Victoria to become a student of the Royal
Military Academy at Woolwich......Chicago
has a Scandinavian population of 43,000......
An eccentric South Bend beauty carries her
husband’s hod when sickness disables him...
The Arch Duke Charles, brother of the Em-
peror of Austria, is soon to be married to
the Princess Maria, youngest daughter of
King Ferdinand II, who is seventeen years
old......Spurgeon is coming to America......
Hugh Stowell Brown, England’s most cele-
brated Baptist pulpit orator, is lecturing in
the east.....Two thousand one hundred and
fifty-three California subscribers to the At-
lantic and Pacific railroad stock have made
the subscription aggregate $1,528,300......
Secretary Fish is delighted at the progress
of the Geneva arbitration......Greeley ac-
cuses the administration of playing strategy
to defeat his election......Yellow fever pre-
vails as an epidemic in Carthagenia, South
America......At Albany one bushel of pota-
toes is worth as much as two of wheat......
Two Fort Stevens girls paddled a small boat
from the Fort to Astoria, a few days ago......
Cholera is raging in Laeore and other places
in British India......General bankruptcy
threatens the planters of Alabama, owing
to the ruin of their cotton crops by the boll
worm......The Illinois “Straights,” in their
Springfield convention, adopted resolutions
and uttered bitter speeches against the sale
of the party at Baltimore to Greeley......
One thousand revolutionists are reported
still in arms in Sinaloa, Mexico......At Lin-
coln, the capital of Nebraska, the Democrats
coalesced in convention and nominated a
mixed State ticket, with Lett (Dem.) for
Governor......Proofs have been laid before
the United States Commission at Browns-
ville, Texas, of the complicity of officers of
the Mexican government in murders and
robberies on the Texan border......One of
the most opulent as well as agreeable ladies
at Saratoga, this season, is the widow of
General John H. Morgan, the famous
raider......The President of the California
State University receives a salary of $10,000
in gold, a year, a house and other things
for comfort......Roasted coffee is said to be
one of the most powerful of deodorizers,
actually destroying noxious animal and
vegetable effluvia......The lumbermen of
Maine predict that the forests in that State
will not last more than five years longer.
This year, the lumber is estimated at 700,-
000,000 feet......Iron springs have been dis-
covered at Long Branch and promise to add
to the popularity of that, already, popular
summer resort......The Emperor of Abys-
sinia has presented the Jardin d’ Acclimata-
tion, Paris, with six magnificent zebras,
[new column]
valued at L120 each......Baltimore has a
water famine and is about to spend $3,000,-
000 to remedy it......The electric current
passes through the Atlantic cable at a velo-
city of from seven thousand to eight thou-
sand nine hundred miles per second......Cal-
ifornia is making her first export of leather.
......Mark Twain will travel through Eng-
land, Ireland and Scotland......U. S. Grant,
junior, has gone to study in Hanover......
Tne mayor of Yeddo is in this country......
A Jewish temple, costing $60,000, is nearly
completed in Milwaukie, Wisconsin.......
Erie, Pa., was nearly destroyed by fire re-
cently......A part of the cathedral of Canter-
bury has been burned......Arthur Helps, the
author, is to be knighted......Baron Roths-
child, of Frankfort, is going to the Holy
Land......French soldiers are to be instruct-
ed in singing......The Countess de Blau-
cherry fought as a common soldier at a
battle near Orleans, during the late French
war, and has received the cross of the Le-
gion of Honor......Americans are crowding
to Baden-Baden this season. Gambling will
be prohibited there after the close of this
year......Powers, the sculptor, has been
made a Knight of the Brazilian Order of
the Rose......The Grand Duke of Hesse
Darmstadt is to marry an opera dancer......
The Crown-Princess Victoria, of Prussia,
daughter of Queen Victoria, offers a prize
of $8,000 for the best essay on advancing
the material prosperity of workingwomen....
Carlist troubles have again broken out in
Spain......Cluseret is preparing a history of
the Paris Commune......A new process of
preserving meat and vegetables has been
communicated to the French Academy of
Sciences.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The Board of Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are busily
engaged preparing for the approaching Fair.
Hon. A.P. Rockwood has been placed in charge
of the Fair grounds; Messrs. Henry Dinwoodey
and George Naylor are superintending the erec-
tion of stalls; and the work of preparation is
being actively pushed forward. The place in
which the exhibition will be held is the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms, a large and commodi-
ous building, and the same in which the last
Fair, that of 1869, was held. In the rear,
ground has been secured for the display of
stock, which is expected to be very large; and
altogether the prospects are that the exhibition
will be, in every sense, a credit to the Terri-
tory.
	People see here and there a specimen of su-
perior work in some branch of industry; ele-
gant Utah-made furniture, an excellent fabric
of cloth, a piece of embroidery that would
compare with the best specimens from Scot-
land or Ireland, straw-work outvieing any im-
ported; or some other article showing the
artistic skill and cultivated taste which many
Utah workmen and workwomen possess; yet
the fact is soon forgotten; add even if it were
remembered it would give but a faint idea of


what is done or can be done in the Territory.
But when we have an exhibition of the work
of skilled hands from many parts of the Terri-
tory, the eye can take in at a glance an amount,
of knowledge that a volume of descriptive
writing would scarcely convey, in regard to
the growth and development of the country,
that in less than a quarter of a century has
been wrested from a barren wilderness.
	We need not urge upon the ladies of the Ter-
ritory to exert themselves that the Fair may
be a great success so far as their special depart-
ments are concerned, satisfied that the circular
of the Board of Directors, addressed to the Fe
male Relief Societies, which was published in
the last number of the EXPONENT, will meet a
gratifying response. Yet it would have been
better if the circular could have been given to
the public a month earlier, so that ladies could
have had more time and opportunities for the
selection of materials and arrangement of dif-
ferent specimens of home manufacture. The
length of time allowed is hardly sufficient for
the production of many articles of taste and
skill, especially for women with families to
look to, which must occupy a large portion of
their time.


﻿OUR FAITH.

	It is customary for many people to speak
slightingly and contemptuously of the faith held
by the Latter-day Saints. Some are pleased
to call it absurd, others declare it is monstrous.
Are they acquainted with it? We think not.
But they seem to think it sufficient that it is a
different faith from that which they believe.
How modest mankind are, generally speaking!
They are willing to concede that every person
who thinks or believes in the same theories,
and holds the same opinions that they do, is a
sensible, intelligent individual. And, as  a
matter of course, they must be very sensible,
intelligent people; right, indeed, in all matters
of belief or opinion, and everybody that differs
with them must be wrong. This is humanity
as we generally find it. Believers in Christi-
anity, as it has been modernized, are willing
to concede intelligence and the possession of
sensible religious views to other believed in
Christianity, so long as opinions are expressed
in general terms and may, by liberal construc-
tion, harmonize broadly with their own; but
let them narrow down to details, and the be-
liever in saving election will manifest positive
hate against one that has faith in the free will
doctrine; the unitarian and trinitarian will de-
nounce each other's pet opinions in the strong-
est terms; and the Protestant and Roman
Catholic will show a detestation each of the
faith held by the other, that has in the past
made myriads of victims for the rack, the
fagot, and the fiendish instruments of torture
with which one set of “Christians” endeavored
to send other “Christians” to a hell of endless
torments, because they would not travel
heavenward in a road marked out by mortals
as ignorant as themselves.
	This is religious intolerance. Every person's
religious opinions appear sensible, rational and
intelligent to that person; but to others they
may appear absurd. We have no hesitation
in saying that the beliefs of many of those who
sneer contemptuously at our faith, appear to
us absurd, contrary to the revelations of God,
and exhibiting a woeful lack of that knowledge
which gives its possessor power with the
Heavens and over the imperfections that flesh
is heir to. Yet we do not sneer at them; why
should we? It would be better to teach such
persons correct principles if they would hearken;
though too many are lifted up in their own


imaginations, and, full of the vanity which
springs from ignorance, will not be taught.
	Our faith is dear to us. It is no blind belief,
no ignorant fanaticism. It has been intelligently
embraced as satisfactory, to our reasoning pow-
ers. It has brought with it conviction of its
truth that no barren theory could bring; and
testimonies of its divine origin that no causu-
istry nor sophistry can overturn. It has buoyed
up the Latter-day Saints to the accomplish-
ments of works that have made their name
famous in every civilized country; and the
Lord of Hosts has stamped it with the impress
of His divine seal, that those who examine it
with clear gaze, In the light of eternal intelli-
gence, can see the sign manual under which it
has been sent forth for the salvation of a world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE HOME  Missionaries continue their labors
throughout the Territory with excellent re-
sults.
	ONE THOUSAND tickets of admission to the
Territorial Fair have been printed by order of
the Board of Directors of the D. A. & M. Society.
	WILL OUR friends exert themselves to bring
in increased subscription lists for the EXPO-
NENT during the approaching Fair and Semi-
Annual Conference?
	THE EXPONENT is a woman’s paper, and we
would be pleased to have still more contribu-
tions from ladies who sympathize with its ob-
jects and desire its success. We hope this
general invitation will be accepted in the place
of private and personal ones.
	ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG, junior, of the
Twelve Apostles, has been presented to the
people, of Cache county, in conference assem-
bled, as president of Cache and Rich counties,
and the appointment has been sustained by
their unanimous vote and united prayers.
	HONS. GEORGE A. SMITH, Wilford Woodruff
and George Q. Cannon and A. M. Musser, Esq.,
have gone to California to attend the State
Fair, as a delegation from the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society. Their visit
will be of value to the industries of Utah.
	THE VOTE of this Territory at the last gen-
eral election, held August 5th of the present
year, was 22,913; and yet Utah is refused a
State government! Probably the fact that Mr.
Cannon, the People’s candidate, received 20,969
against 1,942 for his opponent, may account in
part for its continued condition of tutelage.
	THE PRIMARY and intermediate department
of the University of Deseret opened on Septem-
ber 2nd, with Miss Mary E. Cook as principal.
It gives us much pleasure to speak in the
warmest commendation of this lady’s abilities
as a practical instructor and teacher of large
experience. The department has about two
hundred pupils, with room for more, in the
Social Hall in this city, where the classes
meet.
	A FEW days ago the ground was dedicated
and broken for the water-works of this city,
Alderman Groo, of the City Council, offering
the dedicatory prayer, and Mayor Wells turn-
ing the first shovelful of earth, followed by
President Young also moving part of the soil.
We chronicle the fact for several reasons.
First, these are the first city water-works com-
menced in the Territory; second, they mark the
growth, of the city and the large increase of
population; and, third, that at the inception
of all public improvements, those for what are
termed secular uses as well as those for ecclesi-
astical purposes, the Latter-day Saints always
invoke the Divine blessing upon their labors,
[new column]
and dedicate their work, and the ground that
is to be devoted to such purposes, to the Al-
mighty under whose providential care they en-
joy all the blessings which they possess.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city on
September 3rd. One young man named Wil-
ford Tibbits, sought and met two others named
B. Whiting and W. Wilson, accused the for-
mer of traducing him, struck them both with
a heavy club, and was shot and killed by Wil-
son, who was subsequently arrested, examined
and discharged, on the ground that the homi-
cide was justifiable, being committed in self-
defense. The deed of blood was the result of
evil passions, revenge, and, it is said, intemper-
ance. How carefully mothers should guard
and guide their children in early years, to the
repression of outbursts of vindictive passions;
how wisely should the steps of the young be
directed, that their older years may be marked
by a course honorable in itself and winning
the esteem of the good, instead of one that
might bring shame and disgrace, for evil deeds!


﻿KITES AHOY!
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	You will confer a favor on the Telegraph
Companies by asking boys not to fly kites
in proximity to telegraph wires, as they
very often “foul” the lines and give serious
trouble, especially during wet weather. If
parents will urge their sons to keep away
from the wires with kites, and not to throw
rocks at the insulators, superintendents will
feel under obligations.
		Respectfully,
			A. M. MUSSER, Superintendent.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 7, 1872.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Had I been more literarily inclined, when
my parents and teachers used to urge upon
me the necessity of studying my books, I
should now be able to write a more interest-
ing letter to your paper than, I fear, I shall
do this time. But, however, as so few of
our efficient writers seem disposed to enun-
ciate the principles of truth in their more
elaborate and refined manner, now that
there is a chance for it, I trust that I may
not be thought out of place in offering a few
simple statements in my humble way. Es-
pecially as you have extended a general in-
vitation to all the broken-hearted, (!) down-
trodden (!!) to speak for themselves and tell
their own grievances. I have a story to
tell, I have a testimony to bear, and may
the Spirit of the Lord direct me that it
may be done in meekness and sincerity, and
be productive of good.
	It is a very extraordinary thing for an
English factory girl to mingle much in
young and gay society, and preserve her
dignity, chastity and reputation; as, doubt-
less, many of my readers can testify. Yet
such was my experience for some years,
and, thank Heaven, I escaped without a
blemish; owing perhaps to my falling des-
perately in love, at an early age, with a
young man who was the soul of honor, but
who was engaged to another lady and, con-
sequently, although he was very fond of
me, could not marry me. When he left
our place, all the young people began to
wonder on whom I would next fasten my
affections; for they did not know, and
neither did I then, that I never should care
for any one else. Two years afterwards,
the Mormon Elders came and preached the
gospel to us. My widowed mother joined


the church, and it was to please her, five
years after, that I consented to emigrate to
America, and come to the valleys of the
Saints. My associates of the factory tried
by dissuading me, to prevent my coming.
They talked of the “poor, miserable Mor-
mons,” and their horrid practices. But
when they found I was determined to fulfil
my agreements with my mother, they made
me promise to write them the truth
when I got to Utah.
	I have done so. I have told them how I
attended meetings for a long time before I
became convinced that it was the truth of
Heaven which the elders taught. How six
months after I had been baptized, I hap-
pened to meet, at a general conference,
with my old love, of whom I had not heard
a word for more than seven years, and his
wife whom I had never met before. And
that they both still declare they are happier
for having found me, and can realize and
acknowledge that the hand of God has been
over us all for good. The factory girls still
ridicule and laugh at me, but I do not mind
that, since I know that but for their pride
and ignorance they would any of them own
that they envy me my dear, honored hus-
band and my baby.
							K.G.


﻿MOTHER-IN-LAW.

	It is really lamentable to see the little
feeling which is evinced by married people
in general, and gentlemen in particular, for
the mothers of their consorts. Derisive
songs are sung, light speeches are made and
laughter provoked in connection with the
name of mother-in-law, which should be
one of the most sacred. Gentlemen do not
seem to realize, while basking in the sun-
light of youth, beauty and wit, which give
the fascinating charms to girlhood, how
much those fair young creatures are indebt-
ed to the care-worn matrons, whose wishes
are so often met with  ridicule and consid-
ered whimsical, for all that makes them
gentle and lovely and their companionship
desirable. Or, that young girls, if they
live, are bound to become aged women in
their time, and most of them, doubtless,
even such despicable creatures as—mothers-
in-law!
	Because a mother is more solicitous for
the happiness and welfare of her daughter
than any other being knows how to be, even
the daughter herself; because she realizes
more fully the fearful dangers which sur-
round, in many different forms, the state of
beautiful maidenhood, her anxiety and con-
cern are frequently misconstrued into what
unthinking and injudicious people consider
undue restriction, and even a lack of sym-
pathy on the part of the mother for her
child. Some foolhardy young men think
that when they marry their sweethearts,
the mothers have no farther claim on them,
that they have relinquished all right to direct
or advise, if they ever had any; and they
take it as an undisguised affront for their
mother-in-law to make an occasional sug-
gestion in regard to the management of the
household affairs or the care of the babies.
	Well, young men must live and learn,
like other folks; but I wish some of them
would learn a little more readily about such
things, and not take lessons, so much at the
expense of the feelings of their wives and
their wives’ mothers. Young men, please
consider that if your mothers-in-law are
women, they have lived longer in the world
than you have, and may have gained some
little information that you have never
thought of, with all your wisdom.
							FRANK.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE NURSERY ELF.

Dear little feet, how you wander and wander,
	Little twin truants, so fleet;
Dear little head, how you ponder and ponder
	Over the things that you meet.

Dear little tongue, how you chatter and chatter
	Over your innocent joys.
Oh! but the house is alive with your clatter—
	Shaking, indeed, with your noise.

Can't you be quiet a moment, sweet rover ?
	Is there no end to your fun ?
Soon the “old sand man” will sprinkle you over
	Then the day’s frolic is done.

Come to my arms, for the daylight is dying,
	Closer the dark shadows creep;
Come, like a bird that is weary of flying,
	Come, let me sing you to sleep.


﻿TO MAKE HOME HAPPY.

	A smile, a gentle word of kindness, a
tidy room and baby with a face clean enough
to be kissed, should always be in readiness
for the reception of the head of a family
when he comes in fatigued and careworn,
from the pressure of the busy, daily routine
of the outside world. Let him feel that if
sympathy cannot be found elsewhere, it al-
ways exists for him at home. Let him see
that his goodness in planning and laboring
for the support and comfort of his dear ones,
is appreciated and gratefully acknowledged
by the performance of every little action of
love that can be thought of for his enjoy-
ment at home. Never let him meet with a
fretful and fault-finding spirit, under the
shades of that roof which should be the
covering of his heaven on earth. If there
are losses and crosses to be met, let the dif- 
ferent members of families help to meet
them bravely, instead of trying to discour-
age. If a husband and father does not, at
all times, pay just that attention to his
family that they think he should do, let it
be remembered that he has many things to
think of, many duties to perform, that they
are not acquainted with, and could, prob-
ably, render him no assistance in, were he
to take the time to explain to them, in-
stead of making a little show of negligence,
by not endeavoring to make his family un-
derstand all his business affairs. Let heads
of families realize that to such testimonials
they owe a reciprocity, and should spend as
much time as possible at home, and always
be possessed of the same good influence
they love to meet with.
								G.


﻿USE AND ABUSE OF DRESS.
			    _____
	It was Lavater who said that women
habitually attentive to dress display the
same regularity in their domestic affairs, 
while another writer, alluding to the care-
lessness of some wives concerning their at-
tire, emphatically affirms, "It is one of the
moral duties of every married woman to
appear well-dressed in the presence of her
husband." But to effect this, expensive or
elaborate attire is by no means essential. 
The simplest robe may evince the wearer's
taste as truly as the most costly gown of
"moire antique"—in fact, the simplest
dresses are often the most graceful. Gar-
ments should follow, as far as possible, the
shape of the body as devised and found
good by the great Artificer. All that follows
those beautiful lines must be itself beauti-
ful. All that changes, deforms, or exagger-
ates those lines must be senseless, ugly, 
ludicrous and untrue. Whether a gown
swell out into the hoops of the great tun of
Heidelberg, or project backward like the re-
verse side of the Hottentot Venus, it is
alike hideous. A gown may be of many
folds, of many thicknesses, but it should
[new column]
not turn a woman into a caricature of the
form God made, and made last of all. All
women will admit the truth of this, even
while they persist in disfiguring themselves
in the very manner condemned, for, in jus-
tice to the mass of elaborately-dressed ladies
who daily walk our streets, we must admit
that were they to follow inclination alone,
their costumes would be much simpler.
There breathes not the woman who does
not secretly detest her narrow-soled boots,
with their pointed heels; the heating, brain-
depressing “chignon;” the uncomfortable
corset and unwieldy “panier.” Yet she
lacks courage to discard these instruments
of torture because fashion sanctions their
use. O fashion, fashion! Dare you number
your victims? This mania for costly “dress”
is devastating our American society, and
demoralizing American women to an alarm-
ing extent. The wives and daughters of
the rich men who lead society in this fear-
ful race of extravagance are responsible for
a great share of the prostitution which
curses the nation as-well as for thousands of
business failures, scattered families, and the
long train of miseries among us under the
cover of “keeping up appearances.” An
English tourist recently traveling through
America, complained that owing to the
prevalent custom of elaborate dressing fol-
lowed by American women, it was impos-
sible to distinguish the “shop-girl” from
the “lady of means.” And that brings us
to another part of this subject. Poor girls
dress as expensively as possible, because
they well know that if they do not, society
will punish them bitterly. To be unable to
“dress” is to be treated by men and women
both with almost disrespect in the car, the
boat, at the public gathering, the street and
the shop; to be ignored; to feel the shrug
of contempt, the sneer of levity and the
smile of scorn; to be thrust aside; to be
laughed at; to be unceremoniously dis-
placed; to be cruelly driven out of good so-
ciety; to have heart, intelligence, thought,
virtue, character, held as nothing against
silk; to be stung; to be outraged; to
be proscribed; to be insulted: all this
and much more. It matters not
whether this state of things is right or
wrong; it exists, as every woman who can-
uot follow fashion’s whims knows to her 
cost. It is time for a reform to commence
somewhere; but what woman will head it?
And “what man” will approve and help
her?—“Waverly Magazine.”


TEACH THE WOMEN TO SAVE.—There’s
the secret! A saving woman at the head of
the family is the very best saving bank es-
tablished—one receiving deposits daily and
hourly, with no costly machinery to manage
it. The idea of saving is a pleasant one,
and if the women would imbibe it at once,
they would cultivate and adhere to it, and
thus when they were not aware of it, would
be laying the foundation of a competent se-
curity in a stormy time, and shelter in a
rainy day. The woman who sees to her
own house has a large field to save in. The
best way to make her comprehend it is to
keep an account of all current expenses.
Probably not one woman in ten has an idea
how much are the expenditures of herself
and family. Where from one to two thou-
sand dollars are expended annually, there
is a chance to save something if the effort
is made. Let the housewife take the idea,
act upon it, and she will save many dollars
—perhaps hundreds—where before she had
thought it impossible. This is a duty, yet
not a prompting of avarice, but a moral
obligation, that rests upon the woman as
well as the man.—"Elko Independent.”


﻿THE SEX.

	NO WOMEN have applied for admission to
Amherst College this year.
	THE WIFE of the late General Robert An-
derson will reside in Florence hereafter.
	SIX ladies will be admitted to the
Wesleyan University, at Middletown, at
the next term.
	MISS Rye is on her way from Liverpool
with another lot of model servant girls for
the Canadians.
	IT IS an error to imagine that women talk
more than men. They’re listened to more
—that’s all.
	MRS. Barnard, a lady of some journal-
istic experience, has become managing edi-
tor of the Washington “Chronicle.”
	THREE ladies act as notaries public in
Iowa. They are Miss Zoe Taylor, Miss E.
C. Stebbins and Miss Laura A. Berry.
	“THE charming Lotta” is abroad, dili-
gently pursuing the study of French and
music in the boading school of a French
convent.
	YOUNG ladies will hereafter be admitted
to the collegiate department of Griswold
College, Iowa, on the same terms as the
young men.
	THE Academy of Sciences at Philadel-
phia has elected a woman to full fellowship,
and there is also a lady on one of its active
committees.
	AFTER a competitive examination, Miss
Carrie S. Sheads has been promoted from a
second to a first class clerkship in the Bu-
reau of Statistics.
	“THE only remarkable thing,” says Han-
nah More, “which belonged to me as an
authoress was, that I had written eleven
books after the age of 60.”
	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage As-
sociation has again appointed a committee
to bring the quesion of woman suffrage be-
fore the respective political parties at their
approaching State conventions.
	SIGNORA Aurelia Cinimo Falliero De
Luna, a well-known Italian authoress, has
established in Florence a semi-monthly
newspaper, entitled the "Cornelia," devoted
to the advocacy of Woman's Rights and the
promotion of the education of Italian
women.
   TENNIE Claflin and Victoria Woodhull
announce that they will sue the Springfield
(Mass.) "Republican" for libel for allowing
a correspondent to say that they had at-
tempted to blackmail Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Elizabeth S. Phelps, and others.
They also propose to sue these ladies for
making the charge originally.
	THE expectation that Miss Nellie Grant
is to "come out" this season, fills the hearts
of the fashionable young ladies of Washing-
ton with unwonted hope. It was under-
stood before she left on the European trip
that this winter her appearance "in society"
would be the key-note of many others bud-
ding in their latest teens to enter the arena
of social fashion.
	MADEMOISELLE Celeste, the tight-rope
artist, had her leg broken by the rope giv-
ing way during one of her performances at
Shawneetown, Ky. The physician who set
the limb evidently did not know his busi-
ness, and instead of joining the bones to-
gether he lapped one over the other,
consequently the broken limb is about three
inches shorter than the other. She is now
on her way home, in Rome, N. Y., to have
the family physician break that limb again,
and reset it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	SEVENTY thousand dollars worth of silks,
supposed to have been smuggled, have been
seized in New York.
	A YOUNG lady who had many admirers
among the limbs of the law, on being
asked how she escaped heart-whole, sup-
posed it was owing to the fact that “in a
multitude of ‘counselors’ there is safety.”
	GOD looks not at the oratory of our pray-
ers, how eloquent they are; nor at their
geometry, how long they are; nor at their
arithmetic, how many they are; nor at their
logic, how methodical they are; but he looks
at their sincerity, how spiritual they are.
	A WOMAN lately looking at a printing-
press at work, looked up in the face of her
companion, and in a most earnest manner
inquired:
	“Well, Tim, an’ them’s the things as
writes the papers. Be’s them what they
call editors?”
	A NAUGHTY little boy blubbering because
his mother wouldn’t let him go down to
the river on the Sabbath, upon being ad-
monished, said: “I didn’t want to go a
swimmin’ with ’em ma. I only wanted to
go down and see the bad little boys drown
for going a swimmin’ on Sunday.”
	WISDOM is the associate of Justice. It
assists her to form equal laws, to pursue
right measures, to correct power, to protect
weakness, and to unite individuals in a
common interest and general welfare. He-
roes may kill tyrants, but it is wisdom and
laws that prevent tyranny and oppression.
	IT IS a sign of Christian manhood, where
one, though all the selfish instincts of his
nature impel him to do otherwise, thinks
mercifully, and waits to be gracious, and,
if he cannot form an opinion without sever-
ity, withholds his judgment till he can form
one that shall have more mercy in it. Take
care of the secret thoughts, of the inward
judgments which you form of men.
	THE character of the young men of any
community depends much on that of the
young women. If the latter are cultivated,
intelligent, accomplished, the young men
will feel the requirement that they them-
selves should be upright, and gentlemanly
and refined; but if their female friends are
frivolous and silly, the young men will be
found to be dissipated and worthless.
	DR. HOLMES says; “A woman, notwith-
standing she is the best of listeners, knows
her business, and it is a woman’s business
to please. I don’t say it is not her business
to vote, but I do say that the woman who
does not please, is a false note in the harmo-
nies of nature. She may not have youth
nor beauty, nor even manners; but she must
have something in her voice or expression,
or both, which makes you feel better dis-
posed toward your race to look at or listen
to.”
	A YOUNG mother was in the habit of air-
ing the baby’s clothes at the window. Her
husband did not like it, and believed if she
saw her practice as others saw it she would
desist. He so directed their afternoon
walk as to bring the nursery window into
full view from the central part of the town.
Stopping abruptly, he pointed to the offend-
ing linen flopping unconsciously in the
breeze, and asked sarcastically, “My dear,
what is that display in our window?”
“Why,” she replied, “that is the flag of our
union.” Conquered by this pungent retort,
he saluted the flag by a swing of his hat,
and pressing his wife’s arm closer within
his own, said, as they walked homeward,
“And long may it wave!”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES. 
				
	OXFORD Univerity celebrates its 1000th
anniversary this year.
	THE new Freshman class of Harvard
already number 191.
	THE Free Traders of England propose an
international conference.
	THE Boston Gas Co. has a well 1,100 feet
deep without striking water.
	MARYLAND cotton factories consume
30,000 bales of cotton per week.
	THE population of Paris is said to have
decreased 500,000 in the past six years.
	THE colored voters of the country are
said to number 900,000, and the politicians
are after them.	
	MORE people have been killed by light-
ning in England this summer than has ever
been known before.
	FALL RIVER, Mass., has now in opera-
tion thirty mills, containing 1,100,000
spindles, representing $25,000,000 capital,
and employing 15,000 operatives.
	THE year 1816 was the coldest ever
known in New England. There was no
summer, and ice formed in June, July and
August.	
	THE New Haven undertaker had recently
twenty-seven dead children to care for in
one day, the deaths being caused mainly
by cholera infantum.
	THE new Catholic cathedral at Boston is
approaching completion, and, when finished,
its tower will rival the State, House as a
prominent landmark for people approach-
ing Boston.
	THE new armory, or city prison of Chi-
cago, will cost about $40,000, and will be
80x100 feet in size, two stories high. The
lockup department will contain twenty-four
cells, each 7x12.
	A MAN in Jamaica, Vt., within the last
six years has had born to him by his first
wife a pair of twin daughters, she dying,
and by a second wife one pair of twin boys
and another pair of twin daughters—being
three pair of twins by two mothers.
	THE cost of living in the larger cities in
this country is yearly increasing, but this
is also true of the cities of the Old World.
One thousand dollars in London at the pres-
ent time will purchase no more than seven
hundred dollars ten years ago.
	IT HAS been proved by repeated experi-
ments that it is possible to rule lines with a
diamond point on glass so close together
that upwards of 60,000 of them are com-
prised in the space of one inch. The appar-
ent limit of vision in the best microscope
does not, however, reach beyond lines sep-
arated one eighty-thousandth of an inch.
	CAPT. Hervey’s experiment with Chinese
workmen in his laundry at Belleville, N. J.,
is so far successful that another troop has
been sent for, and a new building for their
accommodation is in process of construction.
All animosity between the Irish girls in the
laundry and the “haythens” appears to have
subsided, and they get along very amicably
together.
	NARROW-GAUGE railroads, according to a
paper recently read before the New York
society of engineers, have an advantage
over broad-gauge roads of 25.48 per cent, in
road bed and road construction. It was also
asserted that there is a saving of 5 per cent.
in the cost of stations, of 28 per cent. in
the cost of car shops, and 21.07 per cent. on
the cost of rolling stock. The average sav-
ing on all items, it was stated, would be
24.03 per cent.


﻿HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty
of sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel.
The saying that man is a bundle of habits
is true of babies as it is of grown children.
If an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o’clock at night till daylight,
the habit of early sleep will be formed, and
the mother may have all of her evenings to
herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a long
morning nap will naturally come about din-
ner time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake till
six o’clock. Perseverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both child and parent. Some mothers
have a long season every morning and every
night in getting their babies asleep. They
rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is
entirely unnecessary. An infant can be ac-
customed by a few days’ training to go to
sleep itself for a morning nap as well as for
the longer rest at night. A mother has du-
ties to herself as well as to her offspring.
While she should exercise a most constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort,
she should secure restand recreation for her-
self. In no other way can she keep fresh
in feeling and buoyant in spirit. Nothing
is so wearing as the unceasing tending of a
fretful baby. Every means should be em-
ployed to aid the child in taking care of it-
self and giving as little trouble as possible.
It may learn in babyhood to amuse itself
with toys or by watching movements going
on around it. Fashion as well as good sense
requires infants’ dresses to be made with
long sleeves and high in the neck. Fashion
requires children of all ages to be warmly
clad. Flannel should incase the whole body,
with the exception of the head and the
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in in-
fants is the nakedness of their necks and
arms. Regularity in feeding is as import-
ant as either of the other requisites. Ba-
bies cry as often from being over-fed or fed
too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense
in this matter, and not force food into a ba-
by’s stomach for every little complaint it
makes. Children of three and four years
old need much more sleep than they usu-
ally have. For irritable and nervous chil-
dren sleep is a specific, and it can be secured
to them only by force of habit. Many light
forms of disease may be cured by keeping
a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read
this column experiment on these few sug-
gestions, and we are sure they will have
many an hour in the nursery for reading
and thought.—Ex.


MISS SMYTHE, the comic singer and bal-
let dancer of London, who still follows that
calling, is Viscountess Hinton, having mar-
ried the noble “Cosman” in 1869, who per-
formed as a pantomimist in several theatres
in 1869-71; and who has lately been discov-
ered to be none other than Viscount Hinton,
heir to Earl Poulett. The couple have a
son and heir, born to them in 1870. It is
difficult to tell who persons are after they
conceive a mania for the stage. In becom-
ing so many and such varied characters, is
it a wonder they should fail sometimes to
keep track of themselves?


A MAN named William George, 103 years
of age, living at Rochester, Ill., committed
suicide by hanging himself a few days
ago.


LIVINGSTONE'S DISCOVERER is now called
Stanley- Africanus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POLICY VERSUS LOVE.

	The Princess Marguerite, cousin-wife of
Prince Humbert, of Italy, does not believe
in Iove for persons of her condition. She
is said to have remarked, not sentimentally
but with the common sense air of a woman
of her century, “There is no such emotion
for us.” The match between her and her
cousin-consort was merely one of State poli-
cy, and although the Prince is not an agree-
able husband, but sullen, and very often
reproachful, and the Princess sometimes re-
sents his rude snubs, she yet seems to con-
sider that it is nothing out of place. She
endeavors to be a patient, kind wife to her
arrogant liege lord, and to further the public
interest even at the cost of her own health.
But the Prince is fond of his boy, becoming
placid and amiable at his presence, no mat-
ter how inconsiderate and sullen he has
been during the day. It is a fine thing for
women so situated to believe as does Mar-
guerite of Savoy.


THE DUTIES OF A MOTHER.—By the
quiet fireside of home, the true mother, in
the midst of her children, is sowing, as in
vases of earth, the seeds of plants that some-
times give to heaven the fragrance of their
blossoms, and whose fruit shall be as a
rosary of angelic deeds, through the ever
ascending and expanding souls of her chil-
dren, to her Maker. Every word that she
utters goes from heart to heart with a power
of which she little dreams. Philosophers
tell us, in their speculations, that we cannot
lift our finger without moving the distant
spheres. Solemn is the thought, but not
more solemn to the mother than the thought
that every word that falls from her lips,
every expression of her countenance, even
in the sheltered walk and retirement of
home, may leave an indelible impression on
young souls around her, and form, as it
were, an underlying strain of that education
which peoples heaven.


LADIES WHO READ THE EXPONENT:
	I will receive, in time for the Territorial Fair
and General Conference, one of the largest assort-
ments of Books, Stationary, etc., ever brought to the
Territory, including Ladies' books on Physiology,
the Training of Girs, Cookery books, Educational
works in great variety; Albums; all the late Maga-
zines, papers and periodicals; Stationery, Toys,
Presents, Sunday School rewards, etc., etc.
							JAMES DWYER.

Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT
	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
			SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
  of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Comestics,
  Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
  est possible figure.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

H. Wallace
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						  St. George, Utah.


			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
	
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves?  "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others !"	

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting arid valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published, semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.	’

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	$2.00	1 Copy six months	$1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
