
Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1872.	NO. 1.


NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Women are now admitted to fifty Ameri-
can colleges.
	Rev. De Witt Talmage is pronounced a
success as a sensation preacher.
	Theodore Tilton says the best brains in
northern New York are wearing white hats.
They might wear chapeaux of a more objec-
tionable color.
	Daniel W. Voorhees in one day destroyed
the political record of a life-time, and that
was when he became henchman to a judge
with an eclesiastical mission.
	An Alabama editor writes “United State,”
and refuses to write “United States”—a
straw to show how Southern sentiment runs.
What a state he must be in?
	The season of scattering intellectual filth
has set in over the country. It occurs quad-
rennially in the United States, commencing
a few months before the Presidential elec-
tion.
	Dr. Newman failed to become a Bishop at
the Methodist General Conference, and Dr.
Newman mourns this second great defeat,
He has remembrances of Salt Lake in con-
nection with the previous one.
	Great outcry is raised against the much
marrying of the Latter-day Saints. The
tendency of the age is to disregard marriage
altogether, but there seems no indication of
a desire to have the race die out.
	The “Alabama” muddle like “confusion
worse confounded" becomes worse mixed
the more it is stirred. It stretches itself
over the path of time, and “like a wounded
snake drags its slow length along.” The
country has become heartily sick of it.
	Some Eastern journals head their Utah
news with “Deseret.” With keen appreci-
ation of the coming and inevitable, they ac-
cept the mellifluous name chosen for the
region wrested by that industry which
“the honey bee” represents, from the barren
wilds of nature.
	George Francis Train sends us a bundle of
Train Ligues. The compliment is appre-
ciated, but the act is like sweetness wasted.
We can vote, but not for “the next Presi-
dent of America.” Utah has not become
Deseret yet, nor can it participate in Presi-
dent making.
	The last week of May, 1872, will be me-
morable in American annals as the first time
since the first ordinance of secession was
passed in the South, that both houses of
Congress had their full list of members.
Statesmanship can retain a complete Federal
legislature, but the article has grown some-
what scarce.
	To pardon the worst class of criminals on
condition that they emigrate to the United
States, is growing in favor with European
monarchies. Germany and Greece so far
have done the largest business in this line,
the latest batch of villains thus disposed of
being the Marathon murderers from Greece.
Orders have been forwarded by President
Grant to New Orleans, to which port it is
understood they have been sent, to prevent
their landing. They should be captured,
ironed, returned to Athens with Uncle Sam-
uel’s compliments, and a bill for direct and
“consequential” damages presented.
	News comes from France that trailing
dresses for street wear are going out of fash-
ion. So many absurd and ridiculous fashions
come from Paris that the wonder is thinking
American women do not, with honest repub-
lican spirit, reject them entirely. This lat-
ter one, however, is so sensible that its im-
mediate adoption will be an evidence of good
sense wisely directed.
	The anti-Mormon bill of Judge Bingham
seems to have fared no better in the judi-
ciary committee of the House of Represent-
atives than the one to which Mr. Voorhees
stood sponsor. It is gratifying to think that
a majority of that committee yet respect the
antiquated and once revered instrument
still occasionally referred to as the Constitu-
tion.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark claims “that if
it is an advantage to vote, women ought to
have it; if a disadvantage men ought not to be
obliged to bear it alone.” Speaking from ex-
perience we feel safe in affirming that the Rev.
gentleman is right, and we hope for a time
when this immunity may be universally enjoy-
ed by our pure-minded and light-loving sisters.
We don’t presume that those belonging to the
opposite class care anything about it.
	Mrs. Carrie F. Young, editor of the “Pa-
cific Journal of Health,” has been lecturing
in Idaho on Temperance and Woman Suf-
frage. The editor of the “Idaho World”
was not present, but did not regret his ab-
sence. He says, “We feel a most decided
repugnance to the exhibition of a woman
upon the rostrum, advocating such degrad-
ing theories as ‘woman suffrage’ and other
cognate subjects.” He omits to state
whether “Temperance” is one of the “de-
grading theories” to which he refers.
	Force is ever the argument of a bad
cause. The principles which cannot be over-
come except by the exercise of physical
power, present a front that arrests the atten-
tion of thinking minds. Where argument
fails and force is employed to overcome an
opponent, the power of the principles to
which opposition is made is admitted. Will
those who urge repressive legislation against
the people of Utah think of it? Witness
the Voorhees bill as an illustration.
	A notable event, as a result of the late
terrible Franco-German war, is the opening
of the German University in Strasbourg,
which takes place June 1st—to-day. That
famous city on the Rhine, after a siege me-
morable in the annals of warfare, passed
into the hands of the Germans, and now
they take the surest means to permanently
consolidate their power, by establishing
there one of those seats of learning for which
Germany has become enviably famous.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, it is said, de-
clared before the Cincinnati Convention met,
that if it gave her cause “the cold shoul-
der,” she would go to Philadelphia and
pledge the ballots of the women of America
to U. S. Grant. As the women of America
are yet without ballots, and as it is very
questionable, if they had them, whether they
would authorize any single individual to
pledge them for any candidate, the supposi-
tion is fair that Miss Anthony possesses too
much good sense to have made any such
declaration.
	Rev. Mr. Peirce, a Methodist clergyman
who has made Salt Lake his headquarters
for some time, in lecturing east proposed
the extinction of polygamy by the introduc-
tion here of vast quantities of expensive
millinery goods, and by inducing “Gentile”
women to dress in gorgeous style that “Mor-
mon” women might imitate them and run
up such heavy dry goods bills that it would
be impossible for a man to support more
than one wife, if even one. Mr. Peirce, no
doubt, preaches modesty and humility occa-
sionally, by way of variety; now he recom-
mends the encouragement of pride, vanity
and extravagance to accomplish his “Chris-
tian” designs. The course he advises has
been largely followed in many places, has
tenanted brothels, aided to fill prisons, bro-
ken up families, hurled women of reputa-
tion and position down to degradation and
infamy, and has met heavy denunciations
from inspired men whom Mr. Peirce profes-
ses to revere. He would steal the livery of
evil to serve religion in. There is not much
of this reverend gentleman, and what little
there is must be either very silly or very
wicked.
	The editor of “The Present Age” has
been to a church and heard an orthodox ser-
mon, in which the preacher took occasion to
say that all religious “isms,” including Mo-
hammedanism, Mormonism and Spiritual-
ism, rested their claims for being true “upon
miracles.” The “Age” is a Spiritualist and 
denies that his “ism” basis its claims to be 
true upon miracles. Latter-day Saints deny
that Mormonism basis any claim for cre-
dence in it on miracles; the reverse is the
truth. The “Age” defines a miracle to be
"the setting aside for the time being of a
natural law to meet an unexpected emer-
gency.” Had he said a miracle was the
bringing into operation of certain natural
laws not generally understood or compre-
hended, he would have been nearer correct.
When somebody can tell how a natural law
may be or can be set aside, except by the
operation of some other natural law, his defi-
nition, which is the generally received one,
may be entitled to more consideration. We
imagine the working of the overland tele- 
graph is as great a miracle to the Cheyenne
Indians as any recorded miracle that the 
“Age” or the orthodox minister can quote.
	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon attended the
Cincinnati Convention and claimed a seat as
a delegate from California. Her claim was
treated with hisses and laughter. She took
a position in front of the stand and endeav-
ored to speak, but her voice was drowned
by a tumultuous discord. Her persistence
in seeking to address an assemblage that
treated her claim in such a manner was un-
dignified; while the action of the Conven-
tion in receiving her with hisses and uproar-
ious laughter, was disgraceful. The Liberal
Republicans assembled in Cincinnati for a
general work of purification and reform, evi-
dently stood greatly in need of general re-
form themselves, in the matter of manners
as well as in politics. Mrs. Gordon was as
much entitled to a seat in that Convention
as Carl Schurz himself, for we have yet to
learn that the call for it specified that
“male” Republicans only were admissable.
	A new periodical in London is called
“The Ladies.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF ITS ORGANIZATION AND WORK-
INGS IN THE CITY OF NAUVOO, HANCOCK CO., ILL.

			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

	According to authentic testimony, an organi-
zation, of which the present Female Relief
Society is a fac-simile, has always existed when
the Church of Jesus Church has been fully
organized. “Elect lady,” as it occurs in the
New Testament, has direct reference to the
same—alluding to one who presided over this
Institution. See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in the
present dispensation, was effected on the 17th of
March, 1842, by Joseph Smith, President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
assisted by other prominent Elders. His
apology for deferring the organization till that
period, was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities, which devolved upon him.
By his suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the "Minutes of
the Organization," would be interesting,—they
being too lengthy for insertion in full:
			"NAUVOO LODGE ROOM,
						March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed secre-
tary.
	Meeting commenced by singing 'The spirit of
God like a fire is burning,' etc. Prayer by
Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowledge
them in full fellowship and admit them to the
privileges of the Institution about to be formed.
Vote unanimous.
	Prest. Smith addressed the meeting to illus-
trate the objects of the Society; that the Society
of sisters might provoke the brethren to good
works, in looking to the wants of the poor,
searching after objects of charity, etc., to assist,
by correcting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the female community, and save the
Elders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro-
posed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them, and let them preside over the Society,
just as the Presidency preside over the Church;
and if they need his instruction—ask him—he
will give it from time to time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitution.
If any officers are wanted to carry out the de-
signs of the Institution, let them be appointed
and set apart, as Deacons, Teachers, &c., are
among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be prece-
dents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of electing a
Presidency to continue in office during good be-
havior, or so long as they shall fill the office
with dignity, &c.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded by
Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith be
chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah M.
Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
for Counselors.”	
	After which the ceremony of ordination was
performed: “When Prest. Smith resumed his re-
marks, giving instruction how to govern them-
selves in their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, &c., &c., and con-
cluded by saying, ‘Do not injure the character
of any one; if members of the Society shall con-
duct improperly, deal with them, and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and her
counselors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest. J.
Smith, that we go into an investigation respect-
ing what this Society shall be called; which
was carried unanimously."
	(The discussion which was lengthy and inter-
esting, is wholly omitted.)
	"By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secretary,
and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs. Holmes)
Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this So-
ciety organized with President and Counselors,
&c., according to Parliamentary usages, and all
who shall hereafter be admitted into this So-
ciety must be free from censure, and received
by vote.'
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by say-
ing that he is much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart rejoices
when he sees the most distinguished characters
stepping forth in a cause which is calculated to
bring into exercise every virtue, and give scope
to the benevolent feelings of the female heart;
he rejoices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer is,
that the blessings of God and the peace of
Heaven may rest on this Institution, hence-
forth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ &c., the
meeting adjourned for one week. Dissmissed
by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present gave
a liberal donation to commence the funds of the
Institution.
	The following lines were found written on a
scrap and lying on an open Bible in the room
where, and at the time when, the Society was
organized; which have been carefully preserv-
ed and transcribed as an appropriate frontis-
piece to the F. R. S. Book of Records.
	"O Lord, help our widows and father-
less children! So mote it be. Amen.
With the SWORD and the WORD of
TRUTH, defend Thou them. So mote it
be. Amen.”
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. A M. Frodsham, Secretary of the F. R.
Society of Ogden, favors us with a report of a
meeting held at that place April 25, 1872, in
which she states that the general spirit of the
Society is to do all they can for the good of the
poor, and whatever may be required at their
hands; and as the meeting was largely attend-
ed there seems to be no lack of interest taken
for the promotion of good by the Society of sis-
ters in that city.
	We acknowledge a handsome subscription
list to the EXPONENT through Mrs. Frodsham.
	A LENGTHY and interesting report of a
meeting of the Fourth Ward Female Relief
Society of Provo, held May 20th, has reached
us. The occasion was the fourth anniver-
sary of the organization of the Society, and
the report shows that the ladies there are
awake to the duties and privileges pertain-
ing to such organizations. President A. O.
Smoot and Bishop Follett were present, and
participated in the proceedings, which were
opened by prayer, and singing by Mrs. War-
ner and daughters. A suitable repast was
prepared for the occasion, of which the aged
and indigent were especially invited to par-
take, and goodly portions were conveyed by
the committee to families belonging to the


Ward who were in destitute circumstances;
their motto being, “The poor to be filled
first, the treasury next.”
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
sung, toasts and sentiments given, and an
excellent time was passed by all present.
	Particular reference is made to the sing-
ing of a little Indian girl, seven years old,
whose father had threatened her life and
whose mother, by stratagem, got her away
and gave her to Mrs. I. Snow; her song be-
ing “I am nobody’s darling,” sung in so
touching a manner as to bring tears to many
a mother’s eyes.
	The Treasurer’s report showed that since
the organization of the Society, $881.46 had
been received by donation, of which $486.60
had been given to the poor, leaving in the
treasury $389.75.
	Very good for the Society, of which sister
R. A. Holden is President, and sister L. W.
Kimball Secretary


﻿	PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT.
“THERE, IS NO EXCELLENCE WITHOUT LA-
				BOR.”
(Read before the Retrenchment Society, Salt Lake City.)
	The development of the moral and intel-
lectual faculties of every person depends,
chiefly, on his or her energies and industry
in study. By continually seeking and ac-
quiring knowledge our intellects expand,
and we thirst for more intelligence and grow
eager for further advancement: labor and
perseverance attain to eminence!
	Having a knowledge that God is our Fa-
ther, and that He holds us accountable
for the use we make of the talents He
has given us, how necessary it is that we
should cultivate and improve those God-
given germs and apply them to usefulness in
his kingdom. We are living in the day
when the Priesthood of God is on the earth,
and through the great mercy of God man
partakes of its blessings; we are not left in
darkness and ignorance like those who have
not received the fulness of the Gospel. We
have many advantages which others do not
possess; we have means for acquiring a
higher development of mind and of obtain-
ing knowledge which is of the greatest
worth.
	We make ourselves what we are to a great
extent. Faithfulness in improving the
mind is always crowned with success; dilli-
gent searching for that knowledge which
pertains to righteousness never loses its re-
ward. Realizing this, we have everything
to encourage us to renewed dilligence and
perseverance; true to the maxim, “There
is no excellence without labor.” Then, my
young friends, let us not waste precious
time in decorating our bodies after the vain
and unbecoming fashions and frivolities
which surround us, but devote our energies
to the adorning and beautifying of our men-
tal and physical faculties, that we may be
prepared for future usefulness in the King-
dom of God.					M. A. F. J.


THE DINNER HORN.
	Josh Billings discourses thus on the “ Din-
ner Horn:" This is the oldest and most sa-
kred horn thare iz. It iz set to musik, and
plays “Home, Sweet Home,” about noon.
It has bin listened tew with more rapturous
delight than ever Graffula’s band has. You
ken hear it further than you ken one of Mr.
Rodman’s guns. It will arrest a man and
bring him quicker than a Sheriff’s warrant.
It ken outfoot any other noise. It kauses the
deaf to hear and the dumb to shout for joy.
Glorious old instrument!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REMEMBER THY MOTHER.
Lead thy mother tenderly
	Down life’s steep decline;
Once her arm was thy support,
	Now she leans on thine.
See upon her loving face
	Those deep lines of care;
Think—it was her toil for thee
	Left that record there.

Ne’er forget her tireless watch
	Kept by day or night,
Taking from her step the grace,
	From her eye the light
Cherish well her faithful heart,
	Which, through weary years,
Echoed with its sympathy
	All thy smiles and tears.

Thank God for thy mother’s love,
	Guard the priceless boon;
For the bitter parting hour
	Cometh all too soon.
When thy grateful tenderness
	Loses power to save,
Earth will hold no dearer spot
	Than thy mother’s grave.


REARING OF CHILDREN.
Ah! what would the world be to us
	If the children were no more?
We should dread the desert behind us
	Worse than the dark before.

What the leaves are to the forest,
	With light and air for food,
Ere their sweet and tender juices
	Have been hardened into wood;

That to the world are children;
	Through them it feels the glow
Of a brighter and sunnier climate
	Than reaches the trunks below

Come to me, O ye children!
	And whisper in my ear
What the birds and winds are saying
	In your sunny atmosphere.

For, what are all man's contrivings.
	And the wisdom of his books,
When compared with your caresses,
	And the gladness of your looks?

Ye are better than all the ballads
	That ever were sung or said;
For ye are living poems,
	And all the rest are dead.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS
	THERE is a true dignity in labor which 
the very indolent or those who are so nar-
row-minded as to think it disgraceful to
work cannot comprehend.
	Lady Montague sensibly remarks, "The
most minute details of household economy
become elegant and refined when they are
ennobled by sentiment; and they are truly 
ennobled when we do them either from a 
sense of duty to a parent, or love for a hus-
band." And another careful authoress has 
written, "The most beautiful domestic ar-
rangements are those which most resemble 
the fair face of a watch, while all the wheels
and springs are entirely out of sight, and
only known to exist by the regularity and
order with which their results are brought
about. This is the perfection of the art and
can only be attained by knowledge and 
adroitness, with a strong desire to promote
the peace and happiness of the domestic cir-
cle. The training of unskilled hands, the
planning, providing, presiding, directing,
shaping and adorning must all be done, and
much more, but a calm, quiet home should
ever be secured."
	A very important item in the programme 
of domestic affairs is "the training of un-
skilled hands." How often do mothers re-
mark to their little daughters, "you are so 
slow and awkward, I would rather do it
myself than wait for you to do it." This is
poor encouragement for a new scholar, and
will soon engender in the feelings of the
child the disposition to think "mother can
do it so much quicker and better than I
﻿that I would rather not try to do it.”
When Is the child to learn how to do her
work quickly and neatly where such a course
is pursued? A little girl’s unpracticed
hands never appear so awkward in learning
to work as do those of a woman; and the
love of industry cannot be inculcated in the
mind too early.
	MRS. N. W., writing to the “American
Agriculturist,” says, “Housekeepers will
find it a great convenience to have two wash
boilers on washing day, one to reheat the
suds in, and the other and larger one to con-
tain the boiled clothes. It is as handy as
plenty of flat-irons on ironing day.” Every
one who has tried it knows this to be the
case.
	THE SAME writer adds, “Never make
buckwheat cakes of buckwheat alone; make
one part of corn meal, two of wheat flour and
three parts of buckwheat. They are then
spongy instead of being flabby. And in ma-
king bread, always use potatoes or nice
corn meal. Scald the meal first before ad-
ding the flour, and then set in the usual
manner. Besides the improvement in the
bread, the flour barrel holds out much longer
and health Is promoted. Put about one part
of corn to three parts of flour when setting
the sponge.”
	TO REMOVE AN OFFENSIVE BREATH.—
From six to ten drops of the concentrated
solution of chloride of soda in a wine glass
full of pure spring water, taken immediately
after the ablutions of the morning are com-
pleted, will sweeten the breath by disinfect-
ing the stomach, which, far from being in-
jured, will be benefitted by the medicine.
If necessary this may be repeated at noon.
In some cases the odor from carious teeth is
combined with that of the stomach. If the
mouth is well rinsed with a teaspoonful of
the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of
water, the bad odor of the teeth will be re-
moved.
	CURE FOR ASTHMA.—E. D. Baker, for-
merly editor of the Snow Hill “Herald,”
published the statement that he was perma-
nently cured of asthma of many years’ stand-
ing by the use of equal parts pulverized salt-
petre and sugar burned in the room. A
friend of his, so badly afflicted that she was
obliged to rest in her chair at nights for
months at a time, was also permanently
cured by this simple remedy. As it will
cost but a trifle and can do no injury, he re-
commends those afflicted with the distres-
sing disease to try this remedy.
	TO CLEANSE THE HAIR.—Barbers use car-
bonate of potash, known as salts of tartar, in
water, to shampoo with. It is better to use
a tablespoonful or two of common spirits of
hartshorn, in a basin of water; then thor-
oughly wash the scalp and hair until they
are clean; then wash with clean water, wipe
clean and apply a little oil or pomade.
	SILVER CAKE.—One cup of sugar, half
cup of butter, one-fourth teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in half teacupful milk, whites of
five eggs, three-fourths teaspoonful cream
tartar mixed in two cups of flour. Yolks of
the eggs and the same ingredients make
gold cake. Season the silver cake with
peach and the gold with lemon.
	JAPANESE CEMENT OR RICE GLUE.—In-
timately mix the best powdered rice with a
little cold water; then gradually add boiling
water until a proper consistence is obtained,
being particularly careful to keep it well
stirred all the while; lastly, it must be
boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan or
earthen pipkin. This glue is beautifully
white and almost transparent, for which
reason it is well adapted for fancy paper
work; which requires a strong and colorless
cement.


HINTS TO CARELESS WIVES.	
	How utterly is the peace of mind and	
comfort of many husbands ruined by the
carelessness and untidiness of their wives!
Let the wife reflect that upon her conduct
and disposition depend the happiness of a
man's home-life. Despair and recklessness
have often been planted in a man's heart by
the slovenly dress and cheerless hearth, the
sour looks and chilling discontent, which
await him where he ought to find the light
of love and the glow of domestic enjoyment.	
In all her trials the wife should earnestly
endeavor to make for her husband and house-
hold a happy and comfortable home; and
she will find at all times that a kindly wel-
come, and the "soft answer that turneth
away wrath," combined with a cheerful
smile, will go a long way toward securing
for herself and others that domestic felicity
which should be the aim and ambition of
her life.
	By pursuing such a course, a wife will
soften almost the hardest and most selfish
heart, and she will find that she can be a
source of peace and sunshine to all around 
her. 						A. W.
	Franklin


﻿THE PRESS.
			
	The following is from a speech delivered
by Dr. Chapin : "I love to hear the rum-
bling of the steam power press better than
the rattle and roar of artillery. It is silently
attacking and vanquishing the Malakoffs of
vice and the Redans of evil; and its parallels
and approaches cannot be resisted. I like
the click of the type in the composing stick
of the compositor better than the click of the
musket in the hands of a soldier. It bears a
leaden message of deadly power, of sublime
force, and of surer aim, which will hit its
mark, though it is a thousand miles ahead.”


﻿LIKES AND DISLIKES.
			—	
	It is so easy to form an opinion of a per-
son at first sight that we often do so, almost 
without knowing it. Even a theatrical per-
former will impress the audience with ei-
ther a favorable or an unfavorable sentiment
upon first appearance. Very frequent chan-
ges occur in our minds in relation to these 
things.  We may first see an actor represent
a mean, low, drunken character, which so
disgusts us that we can scarcely help feeling
an absolute dislike for the man who can so
well and naturally personify so degraded a
creature. But when he plays "Claude Mel-
notte," or “Matthew Bates,” and does it
well, we are apt to think he must possess
some nobleness of soul or he could not so
well display it, even on the stage. Yet in
either case the impression created may be
erroneous.
  The likes and dislikes which we form of
individuals passing to and fro on the great
stage of life, are just as liable to be wrong
as are those formed of the different casts in
a play.  We may be fairly dazzled at times
with a smooth-tongued, fine-looking hum-
bug, and ruthlessly slight a real, genuine,
noble man.


"Col. Horace Scott, Superintendent of the
Jeffersonville road, owns a dog that sits
upon a piano-stool, touches the keys with
the finest precision, rattles off ‘Shoo Fly’
and other pieces scientifically with his feet
upon the keys, and imitates a song with a
howl that undergoes all the musical inflic-
tions."  We decline to believe that while
there are anp sea-serpent stories to resurrect
and tackle to.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. L. GREENE, Editor.
   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
  Address all business communications to
			Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			—
Miss Mary P. Townsend has given $60,-
000 to the Home for aged and indigent fe-
males, the income of which is to be expen-
ded in the support of single women......
Mrs. Mary C. Rea is the first woman who
has made a pre-emption purchase of 160
acres of the public land in Montana......The
Pope has declined money tendered him by
the Italian Government.....It is reported that
Jay Gould has sold his interest in the Grand
opera house to Mrs. Fisk, who is now the
sole owner of the building......The Fall River
“News” states that four appointments of
ladies to important postoffices with $4,000
salaries, have been made during the present
administration......Mrs. Augusta A. Miller
is a compositor at South Bend, Indiana. She
learned to set type in her father’s office in
Angola, when only thirteen years old, and a
proof taken the other day of 9,000 cms,
shows but two typographical errors......Mrs.
M. A. Fay, of Boston, resigned her position
as one of the advisory board to the trustees
of the Industrial school for girls at Lancas-
ter, and the wife of ex-Gov. Claflin was ap-
pointed in her place......The Portland “Daily
Advertiser” says that Mrs. Jane P. Thurs-
ton has entered into correspondence with
Earl Granville, probably in reference to the
Alabama claims......The strikes of the vari-
ous trades in New York have every appear-
ance of being successful......A Democratic
State convention is called to meet at Ban-
gor, Me., June 18.......After a shooting af-
fray in New York, a few evenings ago, Paul
Lowe, son of ex-Gov. Lowe, of Maryland,
was arrested, charged with shooting three
men......The Coreans, fearing another visit
from the U. S. navy have intimated their
consent to treat with our Government
through the intermediacy of the Chinese
Prime Minister, Prince Kung, at Pekin......
The Wheeler and Wilson Sewing Machine
company have withdrawn their application
before Congress for an extension of the Wil-
son patent......Rev. Dr. Huston is on trial at
Baltimore, for alleged improper conduct
with some young ladies of his congregation
......In Des Moines, Iowa, and Hancock and
Adams counties, Ill., a late violent wind
and rain storm did much damage to or-
chards, fences, houses, etc......An unmarried
Chicago woman recently deliberately mur-
dered her illegitimate child, a boy six years
old......A short time since a laboring man of
Michigan tried to kill his wife, and suc-
ceeded in killing himself with a butcher-
knife and hatchet......Miss M. Miller is on
the reportorial staff of the “Salem Mer-
cury.”....“Dolly Varden” sausages are ad-
vertised for sale at one of the Salem, Oregon,
butcher shops......The Virgina and Gold
Hill water company are taking measures to
supply Virginia with water from the Sierra
Nevada Mountains.......The “Present Age”
and the “Golden Age” have been consoli-
dated.....The “Elko Independent” has been
enlarged......It is reported that Grant will
sign the bill for the admission of Utah,
should it pass Congress next session......The
Oregon State prison boasts of ninety unwil-
ling boarders......Brooklyn has been swin-
dled out of something like $200,000 on late
contracts......Voorhees is reported to have
abandoned his Utah bill, admitting that he
had been misled and deceived; and Butler,
Potter and Eldridge are opposed to any
further interference with Utah affairs......A
narrow-gauge railroad is projected from Salt
Lake to central Nevada......Reports from
Spain say Dr. Houard is to be released and
have his property restored to him......The
San Francisco “Pioneer” has changed its
form to quarto shape and appears in an ele-
[new column]
gant new dress....The Rock Island jail is
now without an occupant, for the first time
......There is no whisky shop in Salem, N.
C., and there has been but one fire there in
ninety years......Irene Zackler, of Keokuk,
Iowa, has been awarded a two thousand dol-
lar verdict against George Musgrove for
breach of promise......Perier, Boon and Bau-
din, the three who were convicted of parti-
cipation in some of the most outrageous acts
of the Commune, were executed at Sartory
......Mrs. Josephine McCarthy, who killed a
man last Fall, in Utica, has been liberated.
......In Persia, tens of thousands of people are
reported to have perished from hunger in
little more than a year......The strikes of the
factory girls in Britain have proved success-
ful in nearly all cases......Jane Johnson, a
colored woman of Cincinnati, came to her
death a few days ago from the effects of in-
temperance......James Gordon Bennett, the
great newspaper man, died this evening at
7.25 oclock, in the 71st year of his age......
Edith O’Gormon, the “Escaped Nun,” is in
this city and proposes to lecture here on
“Life in a Convent.”


﻿SALUTATORY.
			—
	In commencing the publication of a woman's
journal we realize, in some degree, the respon-
sibility of the undertaking. The task is a heavy
one, and we can only bring to its performance
earnestness, honesty and such limited ability
as has been vouchsafed to us. Though the first
number is issued to-day, the thought which
has fructified in its publication was not born
of yesterday. The projectors of WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, believing for some time that such a
a journal was needed, and seeing no others step-
ping forward to meet the want, took measures
to give shape and form to their ideas and hopes,
and the EXPONENT is the result.
  The large list of names already upon our sub-
scription book is an evidence that such a jour-
nal was demanded by the circumstances and
the times; and is encouragement for us to labor
dilligently to present for the consideration of
the public a paper that will meet approval, and
be a means of accomplishing good.
  In consequence of the failure of an eastern
firm, from whom the type and other material
for the EXPONENT was ordered, to ship at the
time desired, after waiting some weeks the or-
der had to be sent to California, and the conse-
quence has been a postponement of the date of
publication for a full month after that origin-
ally decided upon. The next number will bear
date June 15, and thereafter we hope to issue
regularly on the 1st and 15th of each month.
   So much by way of introduction and explan-
ation; and we hope before the expiration of the
first six months, our readers and ourself will be
better acquainted.


﻿OUR POSITION.
		            —
	A woman’s journal has come to be viewed as
exclusively a medium through which woman’s
rights and woman’s privileges must be discus-


sed and strenuously advocated, in contradis-
tinction to the rights and privileges of men.
That is not our mission. We have no special
need to advocate woman suffrage in Utah, for
it is enjoyed by the women of this Territory.
We have no particular wrongs to contend
against, inflicted upon us by our husbands, fa-
thers, brothers, or the male portion of the com-
munity ; and no special claims to champion,
throwing down the gauntlet against all comers.
Yet there is ample work for us to do. There is
truth to be disseminated, errors to be combat-
ted, intelligence to be communicated, the right
to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be
corrected. We do not propose to speak for a
few of the women of Utah who with disap-
pointed hopes or perverted minds may be dis-
posed to rail in bitterness against principles
honestly entertained by a whole community,
and against a people to whom all must accord
purity of intent and sincerity of purpose. We
aim to speak for the women of Utah at large,
numbered by the thousand, who in a spirit of
noble self-sacrifice have assisted to build up
this prosperous community, many of them hav-
ing borne severe privation and hardships in so
doing; and who, while thus engaged laying the
foundation of greatness for a growing common-
wealth, have been slandered in the most mal-
evolent manner. We are of the people of Utah,
and for them; we are of the women of Utah,
and proud to be so recognized; and our object
is to sustain truth, spread a knowledge of cor-
rect principles and labor to do good.
   We have no rivalry with any, no war to
wage, no contest to provoke; yet we will en-
deavor, at all times, to speak freely on every
topic of current interest, and on every subject
as it arises in which the women of Utah, and
the great sisterhood the world over, are spe-
cially interested.
		---
	STATEHOOD.
		-
     A peaceable, orderly, industrious community
for nearly a quarter of a century; prosperous
cities, towns and settlements built up over an
extent of country reaching some five hundred
miles north and south; education fostered and
manufactures encouraged; a basis of perma-
nent prosperity in a well developed agricultural
system, and vast mineral wealth being daily
unearthed; a Territory free from debt, and a
population of over a hundred thousand souls
able to take care of themselves: These are
some of the claims Utah presents when asking
State sovereignty. The women of Utah, who
have helped to develop this region, and to make
of it what it has been made from an arid waste,
believe that Utah should cease to exist and that
Deseret should be received into the family of
States. And though it is not probable that
anything in this direction will be done during
the brief remainder of the present session of
Congress, it is to be hoped that next session
tardy justice will be done to the hardy pioneers
of the Great Basin.


PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S seventy-sec-
ond birthday finds him enjoying excellent
health and spirits, just as nearly all other days
find him. He dines to-day with his youngest
brother, L. D. Young; a limited portion of his
own family, and Judge Lorenzo Sawyer and
lady, from California, being participants. A
friend pronounced him seventy-one years old,
but still, “Young, as ever.”


﻿A Yankee doctor has contrived to extract
from sausages a powerful tonic, which, he
says, contains the whole strength of the ori-
ginal bark. He calls it sulphate of canine.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				5


﻿	HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	IF YOU like the EXPONENT, get up a club for it.
For terms, see last page.
	CONTRIBUTIONS are respectfully invited on topics
of interest suited to our columns; but as our space is
limited, to insure early publication they should be
brief.
	IT IS reported that our next Grand Jury is to be
summoned and empanneled in accordance with the
Territorial statutes for the regulation of such mat-
ters.  At last!
	SECRETARIES of Female Relief Societies are
courteously invited to forward to the EXPONENT,
for publication, reports of the meetings and doings
of the various Societies.
	RAILROADS north and south, street cars for Salt
Lake and Ogden, gas works in the metropolis of the
Territory in a close future, buildings going up
everywhere; these are the evidences of our growth
and prosperity.
	WILL THE ladies in the different parts of the
Territory use their influence in getting up clubs for
the EXPONENT?  Several have laid us under obli-
gations in this direction already, and their efforts
are much appreciated.
	LAST WEDNESDAY Dr. H. J. Richards was
called to attend to a boy named Walker, of the
Twentieth Ward, whose face had been bitten by a
dog belonging to Mr. C. Napper. Teach dogs
better manners or chain them up.
	“THE REIGN of the Judges” in Utah has been,
if not glorious, at least notorious. It affords ano-
ther illustration of the proverb; “Man proposes,
but God disposes.”  Beaver, the latest scene of
judicial exploits, has our sympathy.
	A LETTER has been received by us from Mona,
containing money, with a request to forward the
EXPONENT, no name is appended.  We send the
paper addressed to the President of the Female
Relief Society at that place, hoping it will reach
the sender of the subscription.
	THE PEOPLE living in the extreme eastern and
in the north-eastern and south-eastern part of town
will doubtless be much gratified with the new meat
market in the Twelfth Ward, opposite the residence
of Bishop John Sharp, as it will enable them to
procure meat for their tables without being obliged
to go so great a distance as heretofore.
	SCHOOL FESTIVALS in different parts of the
Territory, got up on a large scale, have character-
ized the month of May just closed.  Such seasons
of enjoyment and innocent recreation have an ex-
cellent effect upon the young and impressionable
mind. The earth is not an abode of gloom and
misery, as some ascetics would fain make it appear;
nor is it altogether a mass of corruption lightly cov-
ered with floral beauties.  The bright sun shines
and the lovely flowers bloom for all; and children
carry through the journey of life fond memories of
such seasons of pleasure.


﻿A Missouri farmer attempted to smoke
out a rabbit, and burned up half a mile of
fence and over a hundred apple trees. But
he was successful; he caught the rabbit.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND WRONGS.
			
  The agitation of the woman’s rights ques-
tion aims at obtaining a broader recognition
for the rights of women, as a moiety of the
social structure, now deprived of many priv-
ileges it is contended they should enjoy, and
refused rights which it is claimed they
should possess equally with men. It is a
natural outgrowth of the restless spirit of
the age, which seeks to accomplish “re-
forms,” real and fancied, in numerous direc-
tions. There are many rights which woman
should possess yet of which she is denied by
custom and by statute law, but more espe-
cially by the former.  She should have the
right to live, and to live purely, and not be
compelled by the force of custom and fortui-
tous circumstances to seek a living death
that the physical body may be sustained.
And to secure her this right, she should
have access to every avenue of employment
for which she has physical and mental capa-
city.  As it is, large towns are overcrowded
with women workers, thousands of whom
struggle along on a miserable pittance, until
sheer starvation drives them to the worst
fate that can be imagined that life may be
sustained. Custom has said that woman
must only earn a living by a few circum-
scribed modes of employment; and although
there is a reaction against this worse than
absurd Idea, the custom still obtains too
largely, and the needle and midnight
candle are yet considered, by too many, the
proper appliances of woman’s sphere. Cus-
tom also says that if a woman does as much
work as a man, and does it as well, she must
not receive equal pay for it, and herein a
wrong is inflicted upon her by the depriva-
tion of a right to which she is justly enti-
tled.
	She should not be held more responsible
than man—if as much—for sexual crime.
As the world goes if she sins and falls the
ban of society is placed upon her, she is os-
tracised and driven deeper into a course of
wickedness, while her partner in guilt, her
tempter and destroyer, walks erect and una-
bashed, received, encouraged and it may be
petted by those of her own sex who would
spurn her as an unclean and loathsome thing.
He should be held equally degraded—more
so, as more culpable, and deserving the se-
verer penalty.
  It is held that by women possessing the
right to vote, they could exert a powerful
influence in the halls of legislation to rem-
edy many of the wrongs to which they are
subjected, and it is rightly so held ; yet
much depends upon women themselves, in-
dependent of the elective franchise, in
changing the tone of society and in mould-
ing custom, that all of the sex may receive
justice from each other as well as from men.
Wrongs are not confined to one sex, nor are
women the only ones who are deprived of
rights.  Class tyrannizes over class, and
thousands of both sexes have to mourn the
deprivation of rights which they should pos-
sess. And while men have mothers, sisters
and wives, while the sexes are bound to-
gether by ties of affinity and relationship,
the good that is accomplished for the one
sex will be felt and participated in by the
other. The rich man’s daughter or sister is
not exposed to the same peril from want as
the poor man’s often is. To her it may be a
matter of -indifference whether her sex can
become clerks, saleswomen, telegraphers,
phonographers, compositors, doctors and a
score of other things for which they have
capacity; or whether they receive half pay
or no pay at all; but to the masses of both
sexes, who know what each has to endure,
it should be a matter of paramount import-

ance that just rights should be enjoyed by
all.
	In the application of manhood suffrage a
wrong is inflicted upon the women of these
United States, as States—one which the wo-
men of Utah do not have to bear. While
the elective franchise is enjoyed by many
foreign born citizens who may be but poorly
informed on the exercise of that privilege,
and by the lately emancipated colored popu-
lation, millions of intelligent native-born
women are deprived of it, simply because
nature qualified them to become mothers
and not fathers of men. They may own
property, pay taxes, assist in supporting the
government, rend their heart-strings in giv-
ing for its aid the children of their affec-
tions, but they are denied all right to say
who shall disburse those taxes, how that
government shall be conducted, or who shall
decide on a question of peace or war which
may involve the lives of their sons, brothers,
fathers and hus ands.
	But when women seek to essay the role of
revolutionists instead of reformers, when
they set up one sex as of necessity antago-
nistic to the other, when they claim for wo-
men not liberty but license to set at defiance
wholesome social regulations and nature’s
laws, then they are endeavoring to compass
a wrong beside which the ordinary wrongs
of the sex sink into comparative insignifib
cance.
	The subject is too important for any other
than a brief introductory article at present,
but with the EXPONENT'S permission I will
take it up again.							E.


﻿ PEN AND SCIZZORS.
		      —
  Wood carpets are finding favor in New
York.
  A Wisconsin editor speaks of a wind which
“just sat on its hind legs and howled.”
	The raspberry and blackberry crop in Con-
necticut has been destroyed by the contin-
ued cold weather of March.
	An old lady says she hears every day of
civil engineers, and wonders if there is no
one to say a civil word for conductors.
	Why is a horse the most curious feeder in
the world? Because he eats best when he
has not a bit in his mouth.
	A farmer, to get rid of sewing-machine
“drummers,” whispers “small-pox” when
they appear. It works like a charm.
	The base-ball player was last heard of at
Keokuk, Iowa, where he knocked out a home
run, a girl’s eye and a newspaper item at
one fell swoop.
	Boston requires one million of tons of coal
per annum, or four thousand cargoes, an av-
erage of twenty cargoes per day, from April
to October.
	The Japanese have paper which is water-
proof, and of which garments, handkerchiefs,
hats, umbrellas and purses are made, and
of sufficient strength and pliability for any
use.
	Old lady to her niece—“Good gracious,
Matilda, but it’s cold. My teeth are actually
chattering.” Loving niece—“Well, don’t
let them chatter too much, or they may tell
where you bought them.”
	A negro preacher at a Georgia camp-meet-
ing told his hearers that they never could
enter heaven with whisky bottles in their
pockets, and urged them to “bring ’em
right up to the pulpit, and he would offer
'em a sacrifice to de Lord.” The conse-
quence was that the "shepherd” had "an
overflow of the sperrit” which took the stiff-
ness out of his joints, tied up his tongue and
rendered him incapable of holding forth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
		      —	  
  OF THE sixteen Hartford women who
wished to be made voters, two had never
been naturalized, two signed their “pet”
names instead of their real ones, and two
signed the given names of their husbands
instead of their own. Even if the applica-
tions were admissible, these six would be
ineligible.
	IT MAY not be known to many, that the
most expert telegraphers and phonographers
are to be found among women.  They read-
ily learn to be first-class type-setter; indeed
wherever there is indoor work to be well
done, where sobriety and integrity are es-
sential, there women ought to be employed;
and for the number engaged, we firmly be-
lieve they will prove to be more reliable for
the faithful performance of the duties in-
cumbent, than men.
	SPRINGFIELD, Mass., has elected Miss
Sarah J. Williams to be City Physician;
Twelve Doctors of Medicine in pantaloons
contended for the honor and emolument of
bleeding the Springfield paupers; and, wise
as they were, they were all beaten out of
the field by a woman; the Board of Health
considering, we are told, that “the majority
of patients coming under a city physcian’s
care are women and children, and their
cases such as a woman can best attend.”
	SOCIETY will not tolerate a woman who
objects to live with a drunken, brutal hus-
band. She married for better or for worse,
and though the man becomes worse, she
must pay the penalty.   Mrs. Nelson, wife
of Joseph Nelson, a blacksmith, living near
Sedalia, Mo., unable to live with her lawful
husband, tried to live away from him. So-
ciety said nay. Joseph said no, and made
her return. On Sunday, the 17th ult., after
she had returned home, he killed her. En-
lightened society!  Exalted husband—or
ought to be! Happy wife—in a better
world!
	A GENTLEMAN being in conversation with
a lady of this city, upon the “ insoluble ques-
tion,” remarked that the men of Utah pre-
tend to consider that women should hold
equal rights with men so far as they are ca-
pable; but that he saw no fairness in the
matrimonial proceedings here; for while
the woman has but one choice, the man may
have a chance to suit himself even should
he be disappointed in his first, second, or
other choice. The lady maintained that the
woman held an advantage to equal that, and
upon being interrogated as to what it was,
said, in vindication of her argument, that a
man, married or single, has no business to
fall in love with another man’s wife, but an
unmarried woman may fall in love with and
marry whom she pleases, whether he has a-
wife or not.  That was styled even weights.
	THE HOROSCOPE for March Is thus cast by
Josh Billings: “The man born this month
will be inclined tew blow a little.  He will
be a domestik man, and will know how tew
rok the kradle and pare potatoze.  He will
marry the only daughter of a widow, and
will be a good judge of mother-in-law.  He
will die about the usual time of life, and
leave a house and lot with a small mortgage
onto it. He will never run for offiss but
once and then will get beat. The woman
who appears this month will be an old maid
until she is twenty years old, and then will
suddenly put a stop tew this kind of bizz-
ness by investing in a yung man.  She will
be a good housekeeper, and know how to
make a plum pudding with the plums left
out.  She will hang on to her buty till she is
about forty-five; after that she will have to
take her chances.”
	THE HOUSE OF COMMONS has before it an
admirable measure for the better protection
of infant life, destined to strike a fatal blow
at the horribly outrageous system of baby
farming.  The bill provides that it is unlaw-
ful to retain or to receive for hire or reward,
two or more infants under the age of one
year, to maintain them apart from their pa-
rents for a longer time than twenty-four
hours, without first obtaining a license from
a justice of the peace. This license is only
to be granted on the certificate of a clergy-
man or other responsible parties.  Six
months’ imprisonment or a heavy fine is the
punishment for the infringement of this
rule; and the license may be instantly re-
voked if the justice of the peace is satisfied
that the child is in an unsatisfactory state of
health. The death of an infant who is un-
der the care of a licensed person must be
reported to the coroner, under heavy penal-
ties for non-compliance with the legal regu-
lations.
	AS A RULE, money paid to women for
work, goes for better purposes than that paid
to men. We need only to think a moment
over the instances that come under our own
observation, and we call to mind women
who go to their daily vocations, some to the
sewing machine, some to the counter as
saleswomen, some to the manufactories
where their exquisite handiwork may be
seen in quantities of beautifully wrought
articles which delight the eyes and open the
purses of the more favored of their sex;
others to the art galleries, to the cashier’s
desk, and to many more places which
they are quite as competent to fill as
men; and whose hard-earned dollar goes to
support, perhaps an invalid mother and
younger sisters and brothers at home. That
home devotion never forsakes her—the
strength of her womanly nature endures the
more, the more it is tried, and so she toils
on, her chief compensation coming from the
knowledge that she is using the faculties
given to her for a noble purpose. Can the
brothers of a dependent household, as a rule,
say as much?
	IT WILL BE, says the Pall Mall “Gazette,”
two hundred years in June since Peter the
Great was born, and it is proposed to cele-
brate with due solemnity the memorable
day—the eleventh of the month—which gave
to Russia its greatest Emperor. As usual,
in this highly cultivated age the commem-
oration will assume a prominently educa-
tional character, the foundation of two six-
class elementary schools being contemplated
for the building of which government has
set apart a sum of 2,000 roubles, and for the
maintenance of which an endowment of 7,900
roubles a year is appropriated. A statisti-
cal, topographical, and historical, account of
the city of St. Petersburg is likewise to be
published, in honor of the day. Czar Peter’s
maritime merits, too, are not forgotten.  An
imposing stone monument, to be erected at
Lachten, is to commemorate his gallant sav-
ing of shipwrecked mariners at that place,
and collections will be set on foot for the en-
largement of the mercantile fleet in the
Baltic. A full length portrait, to be painted
by one of the first artists of Russia, and a
solemn procession with it through the streets
of St. Petersburg, will conclude the festive
programme by which the grateful capital
proposes to record its thanks to its founder.

	“Arbor day,” in Iowa and Nebraska, means
one day set apart for planting young forest
trees.  There is beauty for the eye, mois-
ture for the earth and wealth for the com-
monwealth in such planting; and the ex-
ample of those two States should be emula-
ted by other communities of the west.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
		       —
TEXAS pastured 3,651,316 cattle in 1871.
THEY only use thirty-two books in the St. 
Louis High School.	
  LAWRENCE, Mass., employs 14,000 opera-
tives in her manufactories.		
  ENGLAND'S annual expenditure for alco-
holic drinks is $540,000,000. Estimate the	
“consequential damages” on that.		
IT is said that 40,000,000 pounds of tea 
are consumed yearly in the United States.
What tea parties—and nervousness !
  IOWA is awaiting a population of 9,000,-
000, which she claims to have capacity for
on her 55,000 square miles of surface.
  DELAWARE will yield 1,250,000 peach
baskets this year, the product of 5,000,000
peach trees.   Utah will do better, tree for 
tree.
OF lunatics sent to Taunton, Mass., dur-
ing the past eighteen years, the madness of
703 was caused by intemperance and six by
tobacco.
  LADIES, one of your inalienable rights is
to tell us where the 2,000,000 packs of pins
annually manufactured go to, especially as
each pack contains 3,660 pins.
 THE taxable property of Texas is $54,079,-
488 less than in 1858. Not that the State is
not prospering ; but the $85,000,000 worth
of slaves are not counted.
THERE are 343,102 Indians pastured on
87 reservations in the United States, at a
cost of $5,000,000 annually; including offi-
cial plunderings by agents and others.
  IT IS estimated that 2,000 persons anually
find peaceful graves as a result of the mur-
derous illuminating compounds now in use.
“Death in the lamp!” would be a legiti-
mate cry.	
  THE largest cities in the German Empire, 
according to the census of December 1,1871,
are Berlin, 828,012 inhabitants; Hamburg,
235,365 ; Breslau, 208,025 ; Dresden, 177',-
025 ; Munich, 169,612 ; Cologne, 129,251;
and Leipzig, 107,575.
  MICHIGAN has declared that any school
district having over 300 children can borrow
$15,000 to erect a Union school-house, arid
the cry is “Union Forever!” with slight
Mormon tendencies. Erection will be the
order of the day.—“ Pomeroy’s Democrat.”
  THERE is one mile of railroad to every
379 inhabitants in Iowa; to every 411 in Il-
linois ; to 467 in Indiana; to 699 in Penn-
sylvania; to 686 in Missouri; to 975 in
Massachusetts; and to 1,022 in New York.
And the life insurance rates are in propor-
tion.		
   A MAN incarcerated in the Tombs has
been figuring in chalk on the walls of his
cell.  It reads: “In New York City the 
spires of 342 churches, worth $41,130,000,
point heavenward. I’m here for stealing a
loaf of bread for my starving child.” Chris-
tian civilization !
 EUROPE, it is said, has nearly ten millions
of men trained to arms and kept from pro-
ductive industry, to feed ambition, gratify
revenge, and meet the demands of all the
baser passions of human nature. What a
commentary on existing governments and
the degradation of man’s noble powers !
 LONDON is the largest city in the world,
far surpassing all those of antiquity. Ac-
cording to Gibbon, the population of ancient
Rome, in the hight of its magnificence, was
1,200,000; the population of Pekin is sup-
posed to be about 2,000,000; that of London
is about 3,500,000, over one-twelfth of the
population of the United States.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			7


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
	A Buffalo girl—who must be very much
engaged—has had 2,000 of her photographs
printed.
	George Sand’s seventy-five novels have
brought her $10,000 each, exclusive of $80,-
000 received by her for her plays.
	Miss Collamer, of Vermont, owns twenty
thousand dollars’ worth of railroad stock,
and votes at the meetings.
	A Minnesota woman has invented a fan to
be attached to a sewing machine, and put in
motion by the same power.
	Woman has equal rights in Mechlenburg-
Schwerin. Last year 94 men and 33 women
were flogged, receiving 2,004 Lashes.
	The “Saturday Review” calls the fashion-
able “chignon” a lie, and reproaches the la-
dies with systematic deception in wearing
false hair.
	The London “Spectator” is strongly in
favor of a woman’s university in England,
on the ground that the judgment of educa-
ted women is needed on many of the most
important questions of the day.
	From Leipsic we hear of a new pianist
of the higher order. The new virtuoso is a
young Swedish lady of rare beauty and ac-
complishments.  Her name is Erika Lie,
and the most eminent musical critics com-
pare her to Clara Schumann.
	A woman at Danville, N. H., having been
notified by the highway surveyor to appear
and work out her tax of four cents, made
her appearance at the appointed time, armed
with a hoe, and toiled vigorously till her
tax was cancelled—about fifteen minutes.
	While their Brazilian majesties, when at
Naples, were paying a visit to the Azure
grotto, a man fell overboard and would have
perished had not the empress dived after
him, and at the peril of her own august life,
held him by the hair of the head until as-
sistance arrived.
	Mrs. Thomas Gurr, of Northville, Wayne
Co., Mich., forty years old, with a daughter
of fourteen years, and the occasional help of
two other members of the family, husked
over 1,500 bushels of corn during the past
Fall. Mrs. G., by actual count, husked for-
ty-one bushels in eight hours, and her daugh-
ter twenty-five bushels in the same time.
Worth noting! Had this occurred in Utah
what a fearful thing it would have been.
Fortunately it was in Michigan!
	About eighteen months since, the wife of
a rather prominent citizen of Wayne county,
named Voss, died and was buried without a
funeral sermon having been preached over
her remains. Voss married again, and last
week his second wife died, and on Sunday
she was buried from the Methodist church
of Centerville.  The pastor, whether by in-
struction or otherwise, seized the opportu-
nity to preach the funeral services of both
wives, and, with the dead body of the sec-
ond one lying before him, he spoke of the
first wife before referring to the other.
	A New York paper tells about a California
lady who may yet prove a successful rival
to Harriet Hosmer and Vinnie Ream—a
Mrs. Cosby, residing in Butte county.  Her
first venture in sculpturing was in playing
with her children, who were making mud
pies. Taking a lump of adobe she began to
model a head, and was surprised at her suc-
cess.  Then she took a piece of chalk aud
carved another figure with no chisel but a
pair of scissors.  She then bought a block of
marble from which she chiseled an ideal
figure and a portrait of a bust which are
pronounced wonderful figures.


﻿TRULY BRAVE WOMEN.
	The woman who by patient care and con-
stant application, is storing her mind with
the rich gems of knowledge, which lie scat-
tered all over the universe, for some one to
pick up, polish and put to use; and who, hav-
ing gathered a few, generously casts a re-
flection of them, either from lip or pen, upon
her sisters that they may also realize some-
thing of the value of having a perception of
facts as they exist, such a woman is not
the only brave, true-souled help-meet for
man. There are thousands of noble, faith-
ful wives and mothers, who are doing really
more good to-day than so many thousand
lecturers or writers could do with all their
reflecting gems of wisdom and eloquent ap-
peals for reform.
	The mother who voluntarily takes upon
herself the training of her children, the care
of their health and the cultivation of their
minds, and dilligently and firmly applies
her time and talents to the arduous, unre-
mitting tasks of nursery life, and well and
wisely fills the mission she has chosen, re-
quires more fortitude and strength of char-
acter than a woman in any other position in
life, who, if she is blessed with children,
places them under the care of nurse or gov-
erness, paying some one else for doing the
greatest and worthiest work the Lord has
committed to her care, while she does only
the simple and easier part, no matter what
profession she may follow; and at the last
is liable to regret having shirked that no-
blest work for woman to perform, when she
finds it has been poorly done.		L.


﻿CULTIVATE THE BEAUTIFUL.
			—
  Be not over anxious to get rich; for, al-
though the wealth of this world can add
much enjoyment 'to a naturally happy and
sweet disposition, it cannot purchase happi-
ness or contentment for one who does not
earnestly endeavor to have implanted and
carefully cultivated, in the mind and heart,
the beautiful plants of true wisdom, faith
and chastity.
  The Beautiful in nature—trees, plants,
fruits and flowers, and all that is calculated
to please the eye and gladden the heart—is
ever emblematical of the beautiful in the
human mind; friendship and sympathy,
trust and love, and all those endearing, heav-
en-born principles which serve to make life
desirable and its cares and porplexities en-
durable.
   How delightful it is to listen to nature’s
own gifted minstrels warbling out their
songs of joy and praise ! Teach the children
to cultivate, as nearly as possible, the same
happy strains, and let them learn to sing
with heartfelt gratitude, the songs of over-
flowing, innocent pleasure.
  Gather around you the beautiful and lovely
objects of nature and of art, for their pres-
ence will aid the culture of beautiful
thoughts and sentiments, which are the pre-
ludes and prompters of beautiful words and
works, and much more enhancing to true
happiness than mere worldly wealth.


﻿CO-OPERATION IN BRITAIN.
			—
  Here is what is being done in co-operation
in England, as appears from the reports of
the late co-operative congress held in Bol-
ton, Lancashire, and presided over by
Thomas Hughes, M. P.  The figures are en-
couraging to advocates of the principle eve-
rywhere. From the minutes of the assem-
bly it appears that 400,000 workmen in the
United Kingdom own 1,500 stores, whose
supplies are bought by their own agents in


the islands and on the continent, and whose
immense profits are suflicient to settle the
question of the feasibility of co-operation.
One association in the north of England sup-
plies 399 societies with goods; has 235 soci-
eties associated with it, and divided a profit
last year of $40,000, its sales amounting to
$3,793,820. One society in Scotland has 97
retail stores and an annual trade of $1,000,-
000.	The capital invested in these societies
is upward of $10,000,000, nine-tenths of it
being in small shares. They do $50,000,000
of trade and make their own profit on them-
selves.
		————<o>————


﻿HOME.
		   —
A very old and commonplace word, is it
not? But like Utah and the “Mormon
Problem,” it is a subject that may be reflec-
ted upon, talked of and written about, every
day and by everybody, and still be never
lacking in general interest.
  There is, perhaps, no other name pertain-
ing to earthly things—“ mother” excepted
—which contains so much “kind feelings”
as that little word “ home” ; and none which
conveys a more lonely sensation to the sen-
sitive and sympathetic heart than it does
when “less” or “sick” is affixed to it.
  Too much pains cannot be taken by any
member of a household to make home bright
and comfortable, to engender and inculcate
the spirit of harmony and affection that
peace and joy and satisfaction may reign,
and there be no mockery in saying “ sweet
home.”
  A habitation and its surroundings may be
elegant and luxurious, containing all that
could be desired to please and gratify even
the most fastidious, and yet, if taste and or-
der be not carefully cultivated and observed,
there will be no appearance of ease or com-
fort, and no enjoyment to be realized. Moth-
ers and sisters who think more of being
fashionably attired, and making and receiv-
ing calls, than they do of keeping their
houses in order and creating sunshine and
gladness therein, will sometime be likely to
see they have had a wrong idea of things,
and say with the “ Traveler at the source of
the Nile,”
	"O, Happiness ! how far we flee
	Thine own sweet paths in search of thee.”
  Heads of families who know how to ap-
preciate evenings at home, can often fur- 
nish useful entertainment for their little
ones by pronouncing words to be spelled,
giving mathematical problems to be solved,
grammatical errors or rhetorical blemishes
to be corrected or improved, etc. And by
this means children may obtain more genu-
ine practical knowledge in a couple of hours
—even while their hands may be busied
with some light task, preparing an article
for use, convenience, or to assist in beautify-
ing home—than is likely to be acquired in
three or four days at school. Besides, they
are under the benign influence and partici-
pating in the genial atmosphere of home,
where, also, should be taught and ever kept
in view those religious and moral lessons
which contribute so much to the force and
weight of character in after life.
  Make home attractive and pleasant and
children will not desire to wander off to find
enjoyment elsewhere.			G.


﻿“A Chinese newspaper has entered upon
its two thousandth volume. It has lost
nearly all of its original subscribers.” A
copy of this paper, the “Pekin Gazette,”
can be seen in the Museum in this city.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT,


﻿WHY LACE IS COSTLY. '  .
			—
  The finest specimen of Brussels lace is  so,
complicated as to require the labor of seven
persons on one piece, and each operative is
employed at distinct features of the work.
The thread used is of exquisite fineness,
which is spun in dark, underground rooms,
where it is sufficiently moist to prevent the
thread from separating. It is so delicate as
scarcely to be seen, and the room is so ar-
ranged that all the light shall fall upon the
work. It is such material that renders the
genuine Brussels ground so costly. On a
piece of Valenciennes not two inches wide,
from 200 to 300 bobbins are sometimes used ;
and for a larger width, as many as 800 on the
same pillow.


﻿Nebraska is making strenuous efforts to
secure European immigrants, and Nebraska
will be a great State in ten years if it perse-
veres in that policy, with honest officials to
manage the business. Utah, with less than
the usual attractions to draw the ordinary
speculator towards it, by an admirable im-
migration system in twenty years laid a
foundation of permanent prosperity which
will be better appreciated a few years hence
than it is to-day.


THE WASHINGTON “Chronicle” says:
“The Judges of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, in revising the .new
code prepared by the commission to codify
the laws of the District, have ordered the
word ‘male,’ in connection with admission
to the bar, to be stricken out, thus opening
the way to women to practice in the courts
here.”


THE bees of Mr. Greer, of Iowa, secreted
$1,400 worth of honey last year; he found
it, though.


WEED SEWING MACHINES.
		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
				In the World;
    Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking a part to Oil or Clean it.
   Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City. 			IRA PFOUTZ, Ag’t.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

	H. DINWOODEY,
  At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

DR. W.H. GROVES, 
				DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

BAZAR OF FASHION.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
  Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.


	JOHNSON'S
	
HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!


Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
  ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.



BONESET -PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.



  EYE BALSAM.  For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN-SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.


  ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.


These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at



ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,



Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory. 	


  If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them. ' 

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.  

   AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of,

From the Laboratory of
					J. E. JOHNSON,
					    St. George, Utah.


	WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 
	 A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.	
	
  They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

  Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others !”

  For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica- 
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

   The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

   It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

  Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due .attention.

   Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

  WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
  The following low rates will place It within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be inside so
valuable that it will he found in every family in
Utah.	

  TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 copy six months. $1.00
10 Copies one year, 	18.00	10 Copies six month,  9.00

 No subscription received for less than six months.
It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

 Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.﻿		


