Vol. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1872.  No. 15.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     ——
	Heavy floods in Cambridge and vicinity,
England.
	Lady notaries public are the latest
novelty in official life. Terre Haute, Indi-
ana, has got one.
	Murderers and convicts, who have
escaped the penalty of offended laws, con-
tinue to court notoriety, now, as lecturers.
	A singular death occurred in Vernon,
Iowa, a few days ago. A child fell and hurt
its gums, when bleeding commenced at the
place injured, and the child died of it.
	A religion without bigotry, which in-
culcates love, truth and mercy, and whose
believers practice these virtues, is sadly
needed throughout the Eastern States.
	People find it frequently more conve-
nient to see and act wrong than right,
because, while there are numerous wrong
ways there is but one right way to look at
or perform anything.
	A first class mathematician might find
considerable of a problem, and spend some
time in recconing the number and cost of
the disasterous fires which have occurred
within the United States, since the Boston
conflagration.
	A hint to young ladies who design enter-
ing into the house-keeping business might
be gleaned from the example of a wedding
which lately took place, at whcih each guest
paid 25 cents admittance, which was handed
over to the bride as a little start in the
way of “setting up shop.”
	Among the last sayings of Horace
Greeley was “The country is gone; the
Tribune is gone; and I am gone!” While
his last words were: “I know that my Re-
deemer liveth!” These will do to remember
and jot down when making memoranda of
the dying words of eminent men.
	The British Embassador at St. Peters-
burg is reported to have warned Prince
Gortchakoff that if Russian-troops enter the
countries between Khiva and Afghanistan,
England will intervene in support of Afghan-
istan. If this statement be true, a quarrel
between England and Russia, may next be
apprehended.
	ONE OF the questions agitating the country
just now is, whether the people of Louisiana
will control the affairs of that State; or
whether they will be governed by a set of
“carpet-baggers” who have no special inter-
est in the State except to rob it.  The
question is important enough for considera-
tion.
	In the new public school building, No. 5,
Jersey City, New York, which was partially
destroyed by fire on the morning of the 23
of December, were about one hundred and
fifty young ladies, all of whom escaped un-
harmed; and likewise members of the Board
of Education which was in session at the
time. With such good fortune, the loss of
$60,000 need not be complained of.
	A little over a week ago two compositors
skated down the Missouri river from Sioux
City to Omaha, over two hunnred miles;
being some two days making the trip;
[new colum]
which was more fool-hardy than sensible.
Frozen ears for both, with a frozen cheek and
heel for one of them, were the result. If
there is any daring, but foolish thing to be
done, American boys are ready to undertake
it.
	A great curiosity in the form of a stone
has been found by Mr. A. M. Stewart, a
locator of the gravel deposits on the summit
of the Sierra Nevada mountains, in Califor-
nia. This stone is said to be in shape like a
magnifying, glass thick in the centre, and so
hard that the hardest of files tried upon it
produces not even a scratch. Viewed through
a powerful magnifying glass, it shows the
most wonderful rays of light. The owner
believes it to be a rare gem, unknown to
the lapidaries.
	Some time ago, “Woodhull & Claflin’s
Weekly” charged Mrs, Theodore Tilton
with marital infidelity, and Rev. Henry
Ward Beecher as the other guilty party in
the alleged criminality. Mr. Beecher paid
no attention to the charge, nor did Mr. Tilton
up to the present. Now, it is said, he will
publish a denial, although it comes at a
very late hour. Evidently New York
“Society" must have some very hideous-
looking “skeletons” in its cupboards, if they
were exposed to view.
	Among the most terrible disasters of late
occurrence, is recorded the railroad accident
near Carry, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon
of December 24th by which the train, con-
sisting of one passenger car and one baggage
car, the engine and tender, was thrown off
the track; falling a distance of over twenty
feet; the cars were turned directly bottomside
upward, caught fire, and through the fearful
crushing and burning, some twenty souls
were immediately ushered into eternity and
about as many more were dreadfully injured.
But one person out of forty-six who were
on the train, is known to have escaped un-
harmed.
	About three hundred men, women
and children were assembled in the recep-
tion room, up stairs, of the Newberry Baptist
Church, Pennsylvania, on Christmas day,
having a Sunday School Christmas Celebra-
tion; when the floor gave way and the mass
of human beings were precipitated to the
floor beneath. Fourteen were killed out-
right and a large number, more or less
injured. This is one of the most heartrend-
ing occurrences reported of the late holiday;
and should give a text to the bigoted of
other denominations, who forget what the
Savior said concerning the falling of the
tower of Siloam.	
	Train, whose given name is George
Francis, has not reached the White House,
but he has the inside of a New York prison,
charged with publishing an obscene periodi-
cal. But it was not the obscenity in Train’s
publication that roused virtuous New York,
where the most degradingly disgraceful
publications of the age are circulated by
wholesale and are on the stand of almost
every newsvender. It was because he pub-
lished statements concerning prominent
New Yorkers which were hard to meet and
yet could not be passed over in silence. If
New York will rid itself of obscene publica-
[new column]
tions, professional murderers who kill life
ere it has passed from its embryotic condi-
tion, and of its public destroyers of chastity
and innocence, it will be in a better condition
to pronounce judgment upon Train and his
publications than it is at present.
	The Christmas season just passed was
prolific of horrors in the United States.
Destructive fires occurred in many parts of
the country; the upper floor of a Pennsylvania
Baptist church fell in, killing fourteen
persons and injuring nearly fifty more, a
number of them severely; a number of rail-
road accidents occurred, by one of which
some twenty persons were literally roasted
alive through the burning of an overturned
car on which they were, and in addition to
these and other horrors, one of the most
violent snow-storms, accompanied with in-
tense cold, swept over the Eastern, Middle
and Southern States, that has been known
for seventeen years. These are but signs of
the times on which the wise will ponder;
while the unbelieving and the foolish will
not heed the warnings given of an approach-
ing consummation in fulfillment of prophecy.
	The Credit Mobilier is exciting consider-
able interest at present. Speaker Blaine
demanded an investigation into the
charges made against a number of
the members and ex-members of Congress—
Senators and Representatives; the principal
charge being that certain members, Blaine
among the number, were bribed in 1864 by
the Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Credit
Mobilier, to support the measure of that
corporation and vote for the amendments of
1862, to increase the land grant and ex-
change the Government’s first mortgage
on the road for a second one, the first being
allowed to the company. The Chicago
“Evening Post” has the following hit con-
cerning the affair: “Enough has been devel-
oped in the Credit Mobilier examination
to make it desirable to develop more. We
trust the full-sized cat will be let out of the
bag, no matter what Senator she bites, or
what member she scratches, or what editor
she spits upon. So interesting an animal
cannot get her back up too soon.”
	Some time ago Professor Tyndall pro-
posed to test the efficacy of prayer as a
healing medium, by having prayer offered
up in certain wards of an hospital, while
other wards were to be left prayerless; and
if the patients in the wards where prayer
was offered would be restored to health more
quickly than those in the other wards, then
prayer was to be accepted as efficacious in
the healing of dseases. It is needless to
say that Professor Tyndall is an infidel. A
conference of Methodist preachers consid-
ered his proposition, and after some discus-
sion decided that it was blasphemous. Now,
as the Methodist preachers in question,
with the entire denomination, and the
Christian sects generally, repudiate the gift
of healing, or the scriptural mode of healing
the sick by faith and prayer, the question
is an open one, wherein they differ from or
are better than Professor Tyndall? And
whether is the infidelity of the Professor or
the preachers worse, seeing the former
avows his unbelief in the Bible and the
latter profess belief in it?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CROSSING THE ATLANTIC.

Written at sea by Miss Eliza R. Snow, Dedicated to the
				Ladies of Utah.

We’re on the ‘'Minnesota."
	A ship of “Guion Line,"
Which boasts her Captain Morgan,
	The gen’rous staunch and kind.

Amid the heaving waters
	That form the liquid plain;
"With four and twenty draft feet
	The steamer ploughs the main.

I'm gazing on the ocean.
	As on the deck I stand,
And feel the cooling breezes,
	With which the sails are fanned.

By sunlight, star and moonlight,
	And tranquil evening shade,
The ever varying featu es
	Of ocean I’ve surveyed-

At times with restless motion,
	As if her spirit grieves—
As tho' her breast were paining,
	Her mighty bosom heaves.

And then vast undulations,
	Like rolling prairies spread;
With wave on wave dissolving,
	With tumbling, dashing tread.

Upon the deep, dark billows,
	Broad, foaming white caps rise;
And sprays in dazzling beauty,
	Shoot upward to the skies.

'Tis now a plain, smooth surface,
	As tho’ in cozy sleep,
Were wrapped each wave and billow
	Upon the briny deep.

But hark! The Captain orders 
	The furling every sail;
Storm-clouds and headwinds rising
	Portend a coming gale,

Anon all Neptune’s furies
	Are on the Steamer’s path;
We mount the deck to witness 
	The ocean in its wrath.

The scene! What pen can write it?
	What pencil’s art could show
The wild, terrific grandeur
	Which reigns around us now?

The waving, surging waters,
	Like battle armor clash;
Tumultuous waves upheaving
	With foaming fury dash.

The steamer mounts the billows,
	Then dips the space below:
And bravely presses onward
	Tho’ reeling to and fro.

We’re sailing on the ocean
	With wind and sail and steam;
Where views of “terra firma”
	Are like the poet’s dream.

The God who made the waters—
	Who made the solid lands,
Is ours—our Great Protector;
	Our life is in His hands.

Subservient to His counsel—
	Confiding in His care—
Directed by His wisdom.
	There’s safety everywhere.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	EPHRAIM CITY, Dec. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our last monthly meeting, by common
consent, in compliance with Sister Snow’s
suggestion, the word “Female” was dropped
from the name of our Society. We had an
excellent meeting, which indeed we always
do have; our President, Sister S. A. Peter-
son urged the subject of education very
strongly upon the minds of the sisters. She
also gave much good instruction upon the
Word of Wisdom. The Ladies’ Hall, a very
nice two story rock building, is ready for
the shingles; the lower story will be used
for a Co-operative Store.
	AGNESS S. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
[new column]
	Wanship, Summit co.,
			December 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We are a little band of sisters here, but
though among the least, we do not wish to
be the last in any good word or work.
Although but few in number we feel united
and earnest in our endeavors to do all the
good we can, both by precept and example,
as well as in relieving the needy and com-
forting the distressed. At our last meeting
five new members were voted in. At a re-
cent meeting it was voted unanimously to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
the Society, in accordance with the expressed
wishes of Sister E. R. Snow.
	We value your paper highly and hope it
will continue to vindicate the cause of
“Woman’s Rights” in the truest sense of
the word, and we wish you prosperity and
happiness in your enterprise.
	MRS. MARY REYNOLDS President.
	SARAH S. RICHARDS
	ANN BRIZZEE, Counselors
	SUSAN S. RICHARDS, Secretary.
			   —
	LOGAN, Dec. 6th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:--
	At our monthly meeting, held in the hall,
November 4th, the word “Female” was
dropped from the name of our Society by a
unanimous vote, according to the suggestion
made by Sister E. R. Snow. President
Mrs. Maughan imparted to us many good
instructions which she had received from
Sister Snow, making our meeting interest-
ing as well as beneficial. Our meetings are
not largely attended but there are always
some from each ward, so that reports are
made of the condition of the poor and none
are allowed to suffer for the necessaries of
life. Some of the wards hold their sewing
meetings regularly. We have not much
means on hand as we always manage to dis-
tribute our quilts and other articles as fast
as we get them made. We have one hun-
dred dollars in the Co-operative, Store the
interest of which helps us a little. At our
last monthly meeting, (the 2nd inst.) the
sisters expressed their determination to
renew their diligence.
	Accept my good wishes for the success of
your interesting paper, which I think is
highly prized by many of our Society.
				L. B. Benson, Secretary.
	
	CEDAR CITY, Iron Co., U. T.
	December 12 th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was organized the 4th of
June 1868, and since that time has disbursed
nearly $400 for the benefit of the poor, be-
sides donating liberally for the building of a
Temple in St. George and other laudable
undertakings. We have $50 in the Wash-
ington Woolen Factory; $50 in our Co-op.
Store and $50 in the Co-op. sheep herd.
	The sisters with their President—Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker, and her Counselors Mrs.
Annabella Haight and Mrs. Jane Birkbeck
all feel well and willing to assist in every-
thing that is required of them to do good.
At a late meeting, it was moved and unani-
mously carried that the word “Female” be
dropped from the name of the Society.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.

				MENDON, Cache Co.,
					December 8th, 1872
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief report to you of our last
meeting, held on the 5th inst. at which
a vote was taken to omit the word “Female”
from the name of the Society, as suggested,
which, was unanimous. Our Society is in a
[new column]
prosperous condition; we have given to the
poor $44; donated to the meeting house $38;
for public expenses $16; have a $20 share in
the Co-operative Store and $70 in the
treasury.
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		JANE BAKER Secretary.

		HEBER CITY, Wasatch Co.,
			     December 15th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized on the 7th day of June, 1869, under the
supervision of Bishop Abraham Hatch. The
following named ladies were chosen as
officers: Mrs. Margaret Muir President;
Mrs. Ann Murdock and Mrs. Mary McMil-
len Counselors; Mrs. Ann Harvey Secretary
and Mrs. Emily Harvey Treasurer.
	At a meeting held the 7th of November
1872, presided over by President Mrs. Mar-
garet Muir, a unanimous vote was taken to
omit, hereafter, the inappropriate word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. The sisters bore testimony to
the truth of the principles of the Gospel
with which we are associated, and Father
Thomson, being present, gave us some im-
pressive remarks relative to tithing. Meet-
ing adjourned for one month and closed with
singing and prayer.
				    ELLEN LEE,
				    MELISSA REYNOLDS.
				   —
			RIVERDALE Weber Co.,
				December 16, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	President F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J.
Herrick held a meeting at this place on the 5th
inst. The school house was well filled and,
among other instructions, President Richards
recommended the organization of a Relief
Society at Riverdale. And calling for an
expression of the feelings of the congrega-
tion upon the subject, a unanimous vote was
cast in favor of a branch Society being
organized. The following named sisters
were then chosen and ordained to fill the
first offices belonging to the Society; Mrs.
Martha Bingham. President; Mrs. Ednah
Stimpson and Mrs. Nancy Bybee Counselors.
As the day was far spent it was decided
that the sisters meet on the following
Wednesday, to complete the organization.
Accordingly, a meeting was held on
Wednesday December 11th, 1872, at which,
President Mrs. M. Bingham presided. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following named
sisters were chosen and unanimously sus-
tained to fill the under-named offices: Mrs.
Hannah A. Child Secretary; Mrs. Dye,
Treasurer; and sisters Jennette Mitchell,
Martha A. Fife, Mary M. Child, Catharine
Henchliff, Mary Stimpson and Dell Straton
for Visiting Committee.
	Meeting adjourned, prayer by Mrs. Stimp-
son.
				H. L. Child Secretary.

	The subject of Physiology was continued
at the General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the 14 Ward, on Saturday, December 21st
1872. President Mrs. L. Horn being unvoid-
ably absent, the meeting was presided over
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young, who, after
the usual ceremonies, made a few very appro-
priate remarks, followed by Mrs. Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Mrs. Woodruff and others:
Mrs. W. East, believed that, in, as, much
as the wives and daughters of the Saints
had not hitherto been permitted to learn
the nature of the human system and to study
the laws that govern the same, on account
of the labors and duties which they have
been obliged to perform, in connection with
the brethren, for the sustenance of their


families, that if they humble themselves be-
fore the Lord and ask for wisdom concerning
these things that light will be given them.
The Lord is able to quicken our understand-
ings and to teach us those things which we
ought to comprehend for the benefit of our-
selves and our descendants.
	Counselor Mrs. Sararh M. Kimball dwelt
beautifully upon the structure of the spiritual
and physical faculties of human nature. In
childhood and extreme youth, she said, we
enjoy most that which we best comprehend;
the faculties of taste and smelling are, per-
haps, as finely developed in a young child
as in an adult, while other faculties of per-
ception yet remain quite dormant. As we
grow older, the physical form develops, and
so, also, the mental powers expand, ever
reaching forth for something yet beyond
the present. And the most delightful faculty
pertaining to mortality, or immortality, is
faith, that faith which gives us foretaste
and foresight of future and eternal intelli-
gence. Intelligence is happiness—we cannot
enjoy aught, of which we have no under-
standing. Mrs. Watmough made some
very useful explanations upon the formation
of the body, the position of the bones, their
proper treatment and the wisdom exhibited
throughout the entire arrangement of the
same. Remarks suitable to the occasion
were made by sisters Ann Neal, M. A.
Leaver and Eleanor Pratt.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Pheobe Woodruff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Persons in pinched or moderate circum-
stances have, often, as lively a love for the
beautiful as those who are better off. There-
fore, nothing is more becoming to a sensible,
woman of limited means, than the firmest
endeavor to keep on hand, through some
legitimate course, such articles of food and
clothing for herself and family, as will
secure health. For it is a well known fact,
that health and beauty go hand in hand, and
that deprived of health, true beauty never
did, never can exist. Ladies may go to all
the expense they please to purchase artificial
beauty, but what is it after all but a simple
fraud which exposes a weakness of character?
While real beauty can be procured and long
preserved at less than half the cost, by using
sound judgment in the promotion and mainte-
nance of health.
	The following from the pen of Faith
Rochester is worthy of being contemplated
and acted upon by mothers:

	“Under-Clothing for Cold Weather.
—I have written on this subject before, but
there seems to be need of precept upon pre-
cept. Of late I have been learning better
ways than I knew before.
	For children of three years and over there
is nothing better, perhaps, than an under-
garment, clothing the body from the neck
and wrists to the heels, much like the night-
drawers children wear. They may be made
with a plain, easy, high-necked waist, with
long, straight sleeves, and with open drawers
sewed to the waist, The drawers should be
rather full at the top, but small enough at
the lower part of the leg to go inside the
stocking, reaching to the heel, or leaving no
gap above the shoe. 'Doctors disagree'
about the material of this under-garment,
some recommending woolen and some cot-
ton. Taking into account the difficulty of
washing woolen without shrinking it, and
the disagreeable sensation many skins ex-
perience in wearing it, probably the best
way in most cases is to have this under-
garment made either of cotton-flannel or of
hin cotton-cloth, with a similar garment of
warm woolen material over it. Buttons at
the waist support the other under-clothing.
	There are many sensible ladies in these
United States now wearing under-garments
similar to those just described. Among
them the preference is usually given to thin
cotton material for the suit next the body,
with a suit made of woolen (white flannel,
gray ladies’-cloth, or red fireman’s-flannel)
in the same fashion worn over the cotton
suit in winter weather. With two such
suits for frequent changes, to give oppor-
tunity for thorough airing and sunning of
the woolens, they require very little wash-
ing. The cotton next the body takes up the
perspiration, etc., and this gets the good
weekly washing. The woolen suit when
taken off weekly for a change need only be
exposed to pure air and sunlight for a day
or two to purify it properly, washing it
only when it visibly requires it.
	“If men wear cotton under their woolen
shirts, the woolen may be treated in the
same way, and men who are not engaged
in dirty work, can wear their woolen shirts
all winter with very little washing, purify-
ing them by air and sunshine each week
when changes are made. Ladies’ cloth shirts
shrink less than common flannel.”
	Preserving stuffed animals with-
out Arsenic.—Rub the flesh side of the skin
with a composition of 1 lb of tobacco ashes,
half a pound of alum, two pounds of dry
slaked lime.
	Cleaning Oil Paint.—Whiting is bet-
ter than soap. Use warm water and a soft
flannel. Afterwards wash clean and rub
dry with chamois.
	To render Corks or stoppers air-
tight.—This can be accomplished by
covering with a cement composed of red
lead or finely powdered litharge mixed with
undiluted glycerine.
	Mucilage.—Glue, water and 3 per cent
of nitric acid adheres well to metalic sur-
faces.
	Linseed is recommended as a cure for
consumptive cough. The linseed should
be boiled to the consistency of a jelly, and
sweetened with honey or sugar. Two large
tablespoonfuls should be taken when the
cough is about to attack the sufferer.
	To Wash Straw Matting.—Take a
pail half-full of hot water, a perfectly clean
long-handled mop, and a dish of dry, sifted
meal. Sweep all dust off the matting, then
scatter the dry meal evenly over the room.
Wring the mop so dry that it will not drip
at all, and rub hard, one breadth at a time,
always lengthwise of the straw, and use
clean water for each breadth. When the
matting is dry, the meal can be swept off
easily; it should always be done on a dry
day.


﻿Written for the Exponent.	
			MARRY A TRADESMAN.
	Young ladies, never speak unfavorably of
the idea of becoming the wife of an honest
tradesman, for they are in reality the
most honorable and worthy gentlemen of
any community, taken as a whole. Obscure
labor often does much more for the cause of
humanity than do deeds of world-wide fame.
The head may work itself gray, inventing
plans for industry to enter upon, but unless
the hands are fouud, the sturdy, willing
hands, to bring the designs which genius
has devised, into practical use by practical,
diligent labor, what could the schemes and
revelations of distinguished mental power
ever accomplish?


﻿Many a girl foolishly declines the hono
of being the wife of a true son of toil,
because of what her fashionable friends say
about it.
	“O! I wouldn’t marry such a man for
the world” says one. And another re-
marks, “It is so beneath your position in
society! To think of your settling down to
such a fate as washing dishes, and doubt-
less, mopping floors! I wouldn’t marry him
if I never married at all!” Why not? I
would marry him, provided I knew him to
be honest and temperate and industrious—
and that he loved me, and I him.
	If he is a genius and a scholar, so much
the better; but if not, these qualities can be
cultivated to a very great extent, and an
educated, refined and loving woman, can
do more to assist that cultivation than the
whole world could do without her.
	If he has earned, or even inherited a for-
tune, so that he is rich in worldly goods as
well as in heart, so much the better; but if
not, go to work with him, you will never
find wiser or better employment than assist-
ing the man you love to rise in the world
and become as rich and great as your proud-
est ambition would prompt within you a
desire to see him. There is much satisfac-
tion in earning what we possess, much more
than in receiving blessings in any other
way. There is true dignity and honor in
labor, labor of hands as well as of brains, to
which those who consider themselves above
work will never attain, until they have risen
above that degrading superstition.
								Aunt Trudie.


﻿RELICS OF A PAST RACE.
				  ——
	On the farm of Mr. Harrison Whaley, near
Moorfield, in this county, is a skirt of woods
which possesses characteristics of deep in-
terest. About three inches beneath the
surface of the entire tract may be found
innumerable bones, evidently the remains
of an extinct species of the human race.
Several mounds are also in the woods, and
in one which has been partially explored
were found skulls and bones, which from
their size, must have belonged to a race of
beings far more gigantic than the race which
now inhabits the earth. In this mound
were also found many clay utensils; also
arrow-heads cut out of the solid rock, and
pipes of the same material. Such a mem- 
orial of the past starts many inquiries.
Was the place a battle-ground, where abo-
rigines fought to maintain the glory of their
respective tribes? Or was it a common
burial-ground? The first seems the most
plausible theory, in as much as the whole
tract, covering at least fifteen acres, has
multitudes of human bones but a few inches
beneath the surfaee. It is evident they
were never buried, but originally lay exposed
to view, until the accumulated deposits of
time formed the black, rich soil which
covers them. But whatever theory may
be adopted, it is certain that these bony
memorials ante-date history, and furnish
another proof of how little is known of the
races and tribes who flourished, it may be,
centuries ago.—“Carlisle (Ky.) Mercury.”


﻿One of the most able and honored of
French writers has justly said, in speaking
of the pleasure he derived from literature,
“I read all that antiquity has written except
the poets, with whom we had been surfeited
at school, and in whose verses our wearied
eyes saw but the cæsnra, and the long or
short syllable. Sad effect of premature
satiety, which withers in the mind of a
child the most perfumed flowers of human
thought.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.	
				—
	An agent has been sent to Germany in
the hope of securing 1,000 new hands to
work in the Lake Superior mines......For
the third time within nine years, the Jack-
sonville, Illinois, female college was lately 
burned......A Mrs. Kendall, wife of an officer
at Fort Davis, Texas, shot and killed a negro
corporal in the act of entering her sleeping
room, through the window in the absence
of her husband, and was justly applauded
......Black small pox has been widely spread
through Toledo, by the theft by some
students, of a body from the grave-yard
which had been taken off by that disease.
......Upon the first reading in the Spanish
Cortes, of the bill to abolish slavery in Porto
Rica, the vote was given in favor of the
ministerial measure, 180 to 6......Lotta, the
actress, lately reported dead, denies the 
report by a published card......Eight board-
ing house masters have been arrested by the
United States authorities in San Francisco,
for shipping seamen and demanding pay 
of the United States Commissioner......The
heavy frosts of this season in San Francisco,
have burst quite a number of lead water
pipes......The English Court of Queen's
Bench, awards an actress $8,000 damages
for a scar inflicted upon the face by a rail-
way accident......The way in which Irish 
school masters receive the school inspectors
is to meet them outside the door and give
them a sound drubbing; at least one was so
received not long since......There are fifty 
or fifty one counties in the State of Califor-
nia......In the suburbs of Paris, near the 
river Seine, houses are standing in vast lakes
of water from the overflow of that river......
A distinguished member of the French In-
stitute has been struck from the jury list for
declaring his unbelief in the existence of a 
God......A boy in Georgia is reported to
have refused $30,000 for a patent watch......
A recent ball given to the patients in the
lunatic asylum at Blackwell's Island, by
their physicians, is said to have resulted in
much good......A prize of one thousand 
dollars, for the best history of the United
States since the Civil War, is offered by the
King of Denmark......Mrs. M. J. Lamb, of
New York, is preparing a history of the 
Empire City......An old farmer states that
he has cured his daughter of the Grecian
bend, by pouring water on her and holding
her in the sun till she warped back again......
Streams in the neighborhood of Ghent, 
Belgium, have overflowed their embank-
ments and the country is inundated three
feet deep with water......Washington street,
Boston, had a $75,000 fire on the 23rd of
December which caused considerable con-
sternation......George Colton, a celebrated
American Indian painter and traveler, died
at Jersey City, New York, two days before
Christmas, 78 years old......A young lady in
Owensberg, while handling a pistol the
other day. accidentally shot herself through
the heart......All portions of the country
northwest, give accounts of almost unpre-
cedented cold weather......Three passenger
cars were recently precipitated from the
track, near Tonah, Wisconsin, by the break-
ing of a rail on the Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railroad, killing one man and injuring
several......Stokes second trial opened on
December 23, result like the first—nothing
definite concluded......A diamond was re-
cently found in the African diamond fields,
of 288 carats......The Pope severely de-
nounces the conduct of the Italian and
German Governments, and declares that
church property sold by order of the Italian
Parliament conveys no title to the purchaser
......A fire at Portland, Oregon, a few days
[new column]
since, destroyed $350,000 worth of property.
......Thirty persons were washed away and
drowned, from the packet Germania, which
went ashore on a sand bank at the mouth of
the Gironde, during a violent storm on the
night of the 21st of December......The horse
disease has been very prevalent at Toronto,
preventing the running of stages......Rail-
road trains on some of the northern routes
have been delayed by snow......Among the
specimens of the Army Medical Museum,
which number about 15,000, are 897 human
skulls and 34 skeletons......On the 23rd of
December Jersey City, New York, had a
$60,000 fire; Helena, Arkansas, a $30,000 fire,
and East Canaan, New Hampshire, a fire
worth $50,000, on the 22nd of December.


﻿ANOTHER YEAR.

	A new year commences to-day. Eighteen
hundred and seventy-two is with the past. Its
acts are history. Some of them have been im-
portant ones for the Latter-day Saints. A year
ago to-day dark clouds seemed to hang Iower-
ingly over the people who settled these Moun-
tain Valleys. The gravest charges were made
against the leading men of the Territory, by
bad men, and sworn to by even worse ones; and
in a few days after, President Young was held
a prisoner in his own house, while other prom-
inent men were similarly charged. It looked
to those not sustained by an undying faith that
no power could rescue these servants of God
from the hands of their enemies. But those
who sought their destruction were discomfited,
for that Power which has so long and so often
preserved the Saints, made bare His arm for
their deliverance, yet the unbelieving would
not realize the hand of God in the overthrowing
of those who sought the lives of His servants.
	During that trying period thousands of the
women of Utah longed for a medium through
which they could give utterance to their feel-
ings, thair faith, their devotion to the cause of
truth, and their unwavering hope in the future.
It was during that period that the project of the
Exponent was first thought of, and its publica-
tion talked of by a few interested in the matter;
although it was not until June that the way
seemed clear to fairly usher it into existence.
Now, we commence another year, with the
mutterings of the enemies of truth, and their 
expressed determinations to do all the wicked-
ness that is in their hearts. But the same
Power that has always controlled will control,
and they will be able to accomplish nothing
more than they are permitted to do for working
out the purposes of the Almighty.
	But the women of Utah are deeply interested
in all these movements. Ostensibly any blow
that may be aimed at the Church will be
directed against the men; but can our husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons be made the objects
of calumnious attacks, or even worse, and we
not be participators? And while much that
may be attempted will be done in the alleged
behalf of the “down-trodden women of Utah,”
shall we not fling back the slander to those who
utter it.” And as we honor manhood, andhold


virtue and chastity sacred as life, and love 
liberty as we love existence, shall we not repu- 
diate the wolves in sheeps’ clothimg, that would 
fawn around our young and guileless maidens
that they might destroy them!	
	With the opening of the New Year we ask
the patrons of the Exponent to continue their
labors in its behalf, that its instrumentalty for 
good may be widened and extended; and we
shall endeavor to labor faithfully, with the aid
of our sisters in the same noble object, to make
it what its name imports, An honest exponent
of the views of the women of Utah.


﻿MIXED PARTIES.

	This is the season when parties are many
and numerously attended. Social enjoyment
is sought by all classes and by all races of
people, and the people of this Territory have,
since its earliest settlement, encouraged,
especially in the winter season when out-door
work was often almost impossible, innocent and
recreative amusements and social gatherings.
When in each town and settlement everybody
knew everybody else, and was sure of meeting
only friends or acquaintances in whom he or
she had confidence, there existed no necessity
for strictness of inquiry as to who would be
present at a party. But things have changed,
and strangers are often now admitted to parties
in this Territory who are not proper associates
for innocent and pure-minded young people,
especially young ladies. We refer to what has
been called “mixed parties," where the price
of admission is placed at a certain figure, and
where every person is welcome who will pay
the money at the door. To such places every
character, no matter how vile, can claim
admission; and, there, simple and guileless
young girls may be thrown into the society of
men practiced in all the wiles and arts by which
maidens are lured to destruction. No wise
father or mother will allow their children to
attend such parties if they are aware of their
character; and as some of this kind have been
already gotten up, with the invitations headed
“select,” and as it is presumable that others will
be so gotten up, we earnestly recommend
parents to make the strictest inquiries where
the slightest doubt rests upon their minds, that
they may be satisfied beforehand their children
are not exposed to blighting evil, nor thrown in
the way of insidious and dangerous temptation.


﻿REAL ETIQUETTE.

	In those homes where parents observe all the
little courtesies belonging to refinement of social
intercourse, in daily life, are reared and edu-
cated the true ladies and gentlemen of society.
The charms of beauty, of gracefulness and of
manners, are born of the inward soul, and are
qualities of the mind, not of the outward person.
Books on manners and etiquette are unnecessary
for children whose parents possess the simple
yet important tact of making themselves agree-
able and courteous in the family circle. For
young people will unconsciously imitate those
ways, tones and expressions with which they
are familiar, and that influence becomes a part 
of their natures. A woman who bears about
her a continuous care and thoughtfulness for
the happiness of others, gives her offspring
truer and more lasting lessons in etiquette, by
her daily example, than years of study and
countless lectures upon the subject would en- 
able them to acquire. A cordial and pleasant
manner bears a force of sunny magnetism, the
influence of which is felt by all who approach
the agent of such power; and true civility often
does good when most unconscious of its ability.
If we notice carefully that which is unpleasant


and disagreeable to us in the conduct of others,
and avoid making use of anything similar,
and observe closely those obliging, modest
merits in the characters of those whose com-
panionship is ever fascinating and desirable,
and cultivate like principles, we need waste
little thought besides on etiquette.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT B. YOUNG and party arrived
safely at St. George, in the early part of last
week, in excellent health, having held meetings
at the principle settlements by the way down,
much to the edification of the Saints.
	AS CHRISTMAS has passed and the merry
New year is again with us, we wish our friends
and patrons a very happy day of it, and many
returns of the season. Damp and disagreeable
as the weather has been during the holiday
week, we are pleased to admit that no one, so
far as we have learned, has allowed this incon-
venience to interfere with their enjoyment.
	ON THE 22nd ult., we received a brief note
from sister Amelia M. Frodsham, of Ogden—
one of the firmest and most faithful and
energetic friends of the EXPONENT—bearing the
melancholy iutelligence that her husband,
brother Frodsham, departed this life on the
morning of the 21st at a quarter past nine. Our
sympathies for the bereaved lady are, if pos-
sible, increased, from the fact that at the time
of the death of her worthy husband, and for
several days previous, she had also a little
daughter lying very seriously ill. That the
child has recovered, and that the family may
be well sustained and comforted, under the
heavy loss which has deprived them of so dear
and true a friend, we sincerely hope.
	JUST NOW we learn, or rather are reminded,
that at the Territorial Fair, held in this city
last October, the first prize on quilts was
awarded to the quilt belonging to the Eighth
Ward Relief Society. That Society received
the prize money offered for the same, but
through some mistake of the reporters, the
honor was given, through the papers, to the
Twentieth Ward Relief Society, which drew
only the second prize on quilts. The Eighth
Ward Society should also have been credited
with the third prize on ottoman covers, which
the papers all omitted, or published wrong. At
fairs nothing unfair should be countenanced;
we therefore take pleasure in rectifying the
mistakes made by the EXPONENT, in common
with other papers, as soon as apprized of them.
A month or two earlier would have been all the
better.
	A TERRIBLE snow-slide occurred in Little
Cottonwood canyon, on Thursday evening last,
December 26th, by which ten teams were car-
ried away from the road and clear over to the
other side of the creek, smashing sleighs and
wagons, killing and maiming animals, and
worst of all, destroying the lives of some eleven
men. It was a fearful catastrophe, and shows
the terrible power of a mass of snow, light and
feathery is it appears when it falls, as it is
hurled from the mountain sides into the
yawning canyon below, This is the greatest loss
of life yet entailed by one of these avalanches
in Utah, and was caused by a large number of
ore-hauling teams being in the path of the
avalanche. But two bodies were recovered up
till Saturday night; one, of a man from Camp
Douglas, named Peter Rahn; the other of Leroy
Dibble, from Erie County, New York. It is ex-
pected that some of the bodies will not be
recovered until Spring, though a large force has
been searching for them


﻿“ACROSS THE WATERS.”

	CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

			Liverpool, Nov. 19th, 1872.
MY DEAR LULA:—		
	l am now on “terra firma” but so highly
elevated that I almost claim to be filling an
aerial position, being located on the fourth
floor in the “North-Western Hotel,” a
spacious building. The room I occupy, in
company with Mrs. Thompson and Miss
Little, fronts St. George’s Hall, said to be
the largest edifice in the city.
	In my last, I left you with the Falls of
Niagara. I do not recollect anything of
special interest occurring between there and
New York, unless the presence of Hon. Ben
Butler should be so considered. Not having
seen him, I felt considerable interest when
it was announced that he was on the train,
and to my entire satisfaction, he entered
the car in which I was riding, and seated
himself where I had a good view of his
ample phiz. As we arrived at towns by the
way, the citizens no doubt having been ap-
prised of his coming, were out in masses, to
whom he delivered electioneering speeches,
which were listened to with the usual en-
thusiasm of such occasions. For my part, I
feel to respect any man who possesses suffi-
cient independenc of character, in this age
of political bribery, to speak as he thinks—
which I believe Ben Butler does.
	We arrived in New York on Sunday
morning—it was raining, but luckily for us,
the beautiful depot afforded us shelter,
while, after considerable delay, a carriage
(probably the property of some unpopular
infidel) was procured to carry ourselves and
our baggage to St. Nicholas’ Hotel. The
fact of our arrival on the Sabbath was the
cause of delay, this very religious people
have plenty of cabs and hacks to receive
strangers, on other days of the week, which
strongly reminds me of a class of religionists
referred to in New Testament history. I am
now speaking in general terms—there are
very excellent people living in New York,
I know of several although my knowledge
is very limited.
	St. Nicholas’ Hotel is a splendid establish-
ment—it contains 600 rooms and accommo-
dates from ten to eleven hundred occupants.
It is freely ventilated and so warmed with
pipes running in various directions as to
keep an equilibrium of temperature. Water
is conveyed to and from the rooms in pipes,
so that you are not stinted—you can wash
yourself and rinse too, if you choose. The
whole establishment is lighted with gas,
and you can have as much light as you
please; yet I think there is an extra charge
if you keep it burning all night. What I
consider an enormity is the charge of one
dollar per day for fire, however small it may
be; and then the porter graciously expects a
small fee for his condescension in making it
for you. But that is all very well—he is so
obliging and does it so much better than
any one else.
	I stayed three nights in New York—spent
two days in the city and one in visiting
Willard Young at West Point. In company
of President George A. Smith, my brother
and brother Dunford; I went to the office of
the Notary Public, the kind and affable Mr.
None, before whom I solemnly subscribed
to my allegiance to the United States Gov-
ernment, etc., according to due form of law,
and he made out my application which he
promised to send to Washington for my
passport, which I expect to meet in London
on my arrival. In conversation with Mr.
None, brother Smith spoke of his rejection
from the Philadelphia Convention, on
account of his religion, when Mr. N. ex-
claimed emphatically, “How ridiculous!”
he expressed much pleasure on meeting
President Smith, saying he was the first
official of our people with whom he had met.
We then called on the “Consul General of
the German Empire,” Mr. Kosing, where we
met the very gentlemanly Mr. Schleiden,
member of the German Parliament. Both
these gentlemen had visited Salt Lake,
where they made Br. Smith’s acquaintance.
They spoke of their visit in the highest
terms.
	Through the kindness of Br. J. W. Young,
I enjoyed a pleasant turn around Central
Park; and here, amid its shades, fountains,
equestrian statues, etc. etc., I leave you for
the present.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.
				——
		FRANKLIN, Oneida Co., Idaho, 
				   December 10, 1872. 	
MISS L. L. GREENE:—
	I left Salt Lake City, November 2nd,
and arrived at Box Elder station in safety,
had a very pleasant trip. There I took
passage on the Utah Northern. When I got to 
Hampton’s Station, the terminus, in compny
with some friends I stepped on to the
engine and ran on to the end of the track,
about four miles; when passing some very
deep fills, sitting as I did where I could see
all the danger, on hearing the man at the
Engine say he had never run over that road
before, all at once my blood seemed to stop
in its course, I felt my heart stop its beat-
ing; I hardly knew where I was. But in a
few minutes I saw we were all safe on level
ground, which made all right again. There
we saw men laying ties and rails; as I stood
looking at those willing hands at that great
work, I said in my heart, “what could this
people do if they could be let alone!”
	We stepped on to our swift beast, and ran
back to the station, found the coach in wait-
ing, were soon seated and off for Logan,
where we arrived in safety. When I saw how
far I had come in, in so short a time, I
felt to thank the Lord for his kindness in
helping this people to build the Rail-
road. And when I arrived in this far off
northern clime and found all my children
and friends well and prospering I felt more
than thankful. I am stopping at present at
my son-in-law’s, A. Stolker, who is now, in
company with Bishop Lorenzo Hatch, at
Boise City, the Capital of this Territory,
attending the legislature, of which they are
members. .I have seen letters from them;
they speak well of the people of that place,
but say they had a hard time in getting
there. Were way laied by robbers and
commanded to stop, but the driver on the
coach put whip to his horses and was soon
out of their reach. Besides, the coach was
upset in going down a very steep hill, but
happily there were none severely hurt.
	Well, I find good Saints in this land. The
men are alive to the calls of the Bishops to
work on the Railroad, the sisters to looking
after the poor.
	I am well and feel first rate in spirits.
I expect to spend the winter in this north-
ern country. We have had some very cold
weather, but it is fine now. I have not for-
gotten you nor your labors; may the Lord
bless you in the same.
					AMANDA SMITH.


A GERMAN beggar girl in Boston, who
has no hands, is reported to be the owner of
a fine residence in that city, besides other
property, all purchased with money gathered
from foolish but charitable people in the
streets.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿			  For the Exponent.
		KATIE'S BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
				     ——
	Yesterday Katie was eleven years old.
As father was leaving the breakfast table to
go to his office he said to her, “Put on your
hat and cloak, Katie, and walk up town with
me, and we’ll see if we can’t find a bird and
cage that will do for you to bring home as a
'Birthday Present’.” Pleased beyond
measure, Katie did as directed, and half an
hour afterward, came home with a lovely
Goldfinch in a perfect palace of a cage.
	“Isn’t Papa good?” said the young lady,
as she proceeded to hang her new pet in
the parlor window.
	But all the remainder of the morning
Katie seemed troubled. She supplied her
bird plentifully with food and water, and
every few minutes she would go to it, as it
hopped about from one side to the other of
its magnificent prison, and putting her lips
close to the bars, say somthing in a half
whisper, which sounded like a tender, pity-
ing mother soothing a fretful child.
	When father came home to dinner, he
asked for Katie, and was surprised, he said,
that she was not at hand to meet him with
her merry prattle, as usual. “How is the
'Birthday Present,’ my little girl?” asked
he as she came silently and thoughtfully to-
ward him. The child’s face crimsoned, as
she put up her mouth for the accustomed
kiss, without speaking.	
	“What is it Katie, doesn’t the Goldfinch
suit you? Would you have preferred a
Canary?” father continued. “Well, no,
dear Papa, I realy am not satisfied with my
'Birthday Present,’ though I ought to be
ashamed to acknowledge it, I know,"
answered Kate demurely. “Not if you
mean it, my frank darling,” answered our
indulgent parent, “let Mat have the Gold-
finch and I will bring you home a Canary
this evening.” “But I don’t want a Canary
Papa! and had rather the Goldfinch were
taken back; for although it is very beauti-
ful, and its singing delightful, I cannot look
at it or listen to its music without feeling as
though I must cry. I don’t want a bird,
Papa; I cannot think it is fair or just or
right, according to the laws of nature and
the statutes of creation, to keep the little
creatures housed up thus, when the broad
firmament and free, wild woods are their
native elements. I should never feel com-
fortable to have one of the little captives in
the house.”
	Thus philosophized our sensitiev hero-
ine, and who shall argue that ! those
girlish reasonings were not correct? Father
did not, but yielding to her childish persua-
sions, he carried the bird and cage back to
the store, and sent his sympathetic daughter
a splendid volume on ornithology instead,
with which she is highly delighted. Papa
thinks Katie will make a fine “Woman’s
Rights” woman, one of these days, and that
she ought to belong to the “Society for the
Prevention of cruelty to Animals.”
						LITTLE SISTER.
S. L. CITY, December 1872.,


A FARMER of Alvarado, Alameda county,
some months since, put in fifty acres of seed
for an experiment in chicory culture. He
went on a visit to the East.		On his return
recently he found that instead of fifty acres
of chicory, he had fifty acres of German
salad, the result of a trifling mistake in
seed.


RECTOR'S daughter (to Sunday scholar)—
"Oh, you have an elder brother; well, how
old is he?"	School-boy—"Dunno, miss, but
he just started o' swearin."


MISCELLANEOUS. 
			   ——
	A MISSING minister of the gospel is
wanted in Howwood, Scotland. He left his
charge about two months ago, for a holiday
trip to America, and has not returned. A
young lady disappeared at the same time,
but of course this fact has no connection
with his “lighting out.”
	A DOLLY VARDEN PIE:—Take about four
yards of light dough, gather it up in light
flounces, crimp the edges, and fill up with
fruit; then lay on the overskirt, fasten it;
with buttons of dough connected with frills
of the same, and you will have a tasteful
and elegant pie, only you must eat it, not
wear it.
	THE willow that bends to the tempest
often escapes better than the oak which re-
sists it; and so, in great calamities, it some-
times happens that light and frivolous spirits
recover their elasticity and presence of mind
sooner than those of a loftier character.—
“Sir Walter Scott.”
	LIKE flakes of snow that fall unperceived
upon the earth, seemingly unimportant
events of life succeed each other. As the
snow gathers together so are our habits
formed. No single action creates, however
it exhibits man’s character; but as the
tempest hurls the avalanche down the
mountain, so passion may overthrow the
edifice of truth and virtue.
	Dr. Franklin recommends a young man,
in the choice of a wife, to select from a bunch, 
giving as a reason, that when there are many
daughters they improve each other, and
from emulation acquire more accomplish
ments, and know more, and do more, than
a single child spoiled by parental fondness.
This is a comfort to people with large
families.	
	CHISELED FEATURES.—The features may
be common and characterless, but if they are
soft and uncertain, and the spaces around
them ample, they are safe.		But of the
defined forms and scanty quantities let us
beware though, fond mothers call them
“chiseled features” and “regular profiles.”
What is admired as delicate and precise
now, may be too likly to turn out sharp and
mean by-and-by.
	SELF-EXAMINATION. — Few sufficiently
practice the habit of self-examination.
Through life man is liable to error and
requires check, rebuke and counsel. He
should personify hisi own conscience. He
should be his own good spirit, hovering
over himself in moments of passion, temp-
tation and danger, and reminding himself
that he owes a duty to his Maker with which
the opinions and consequences of the world
have nothing to do.
	WOMAN'S DRUDGERY.—The hygienic
system is pre-eminently the cause of woman,
both as respects the preservation of health
and the treatmeut of disease. A simpler
and more wholesome plan would relieve her
of one-half of her present hard toil and
drudgery, while it would promote the health
of her household. At least four-fifths of all
the money expended for medicines and
medical advice, are paid because of the
diseases of women and children. And nine-
tenths of all the care, nursing, night watch-
ing and privation of sleep and rest because
of sick children, are performed and suffered
by women. The Medical Society in New
York, which, on one of its festive occasions,
toasted women in the following words, had
truth, if not poetry, as the basis of the
sentiment:
	“Woman”—God’s best gift to man, and
the chief support of all the doctors.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	ENGLAND allows its paupers two shillings
and sixpence (62c.) a week to live on.
	THE Bishop of Philadelphia proposes to
cure the horse disease with prayer.
	THE Knights of St. Patrick of St. Louis
talk of a $25,000 monument to the memory
of Daniel O’Connell.
	TWO hundred thousand gallons of wine
were made at Yountville this season and
100,000 gallons of brandy.	
	THE statute of Chief Justice Taney was
upon the pedestal at Annapolis, Md., on the 
21st of November. It represents Taney in 
a sitting posture.
	THE "Papal Index,” contains the names
of nineteen books which the Holy Father
prohibits. Among them is Dr. Buchner’s 
“Force and Matter.”
	THE Boston “Pilot,” twice burnt out,
says: “We are just about tired of this 
phoenix business. We don’t want to rise
nobly from our ashes any more.”
	EX-President Hopkins, of Williams Col-
lege, has been invited by the graduates of
that institution resident in Troy, N. Y., to
lecture in that city on Professor Tyndall’s 
“Prayer Gauge.”
	THE working girls in the Arlington woolen 
mills have sent to Jennie Collins eighty-one
dollars for the sewing girls of Boston, who
have lost their work by the fire.
	INDIANAPOLIS boasts of a contractor who
can neither read, write, nor figure, and yet
can accurately estimate the number of bricks
for a wall of given dimensions, and the cost
of construction.
	CARDWELL, the British War Minister, 
has sanctioned the introduction of playing
cards into the soldiers’ recreation room as
an experiment in the way of weaning soldiers
from the public houses.
	COLONEL Thomas A. Scott has completed
contracts for transporting supplies, provi-
sions and laborers, and 25,000 tons of iron to
be used in building the transcontinental
railroad, which begins at the end of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad.
	A MAN’S total outward work, his whole
effect opon the world in twenty-four hours,
has been reckoned about 350 foot-tons. That
may be taken as a good “hard day’s work.”
During the same the heart has been working
at the rate of 120 foot-tons. That is to say,
if all the pulses of a day and night could be
concentrated and welded into one great
throb, it would be enough to throw a ton of
iron 120 feet into the air.
	IF the following is not a “Fact,” it ought
to be. We are personally positive of many
facts not half so good; and the figuring is
certainly excellent, showing that Ohio,
with all its intemperance has still some true
husbands, and it is to be hoped they are
justly appreciated:  “The epizootic has de-
veloped in Cleveland, Ohio, among other
things a vast deal of marital devotion. The
wife of one gentleman desired to attend the
Patti concert, but was in feeble health and
unable to walk. The husband put her into
a stout baby carriage, and proceeded straight-
way to the hall where Patti was to sing; and
at the close of the entertainment he trundled 
his wife home in the same style.  Another
wife desired to attend the wedding of a
friend, some distance away from her resi-
dence; but the horses were all sick and a
carriage could not be had for love or money.
Carefully wrapping her up and placing her
on the seat of a high buggy, the husband
took his place between the thills, and for
the nonce ‘played horse’ most successfully.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Written for the EXPONENT.
	IMPORTANT EVENTS OF ONE YEAR.
				    ——
		A HOLIDAY SKETCH BY L. L. 
				      —
	It was New Year’s Eve, 1863, and we were
having a regular nice time.  There had
been a shooting match, father was on the
winning side, and was to take supper with
Mr. W., who was to pay for both tickets to
the ball that evening as well. We were all
going to the ball, all but mother and the
little folks, and with those exceptions my
“all,” includes my father, three sisters, a
brother-in-law and myself.
	How clear and bright the hall was, and
how happy every one appeared! It seemed
to me, my sisters had never looked so well
as upon that New Year’s Eve, and they
enjoyed themselves so much and were so
unconscious of self, that I delighted in
watching them. It was not strange, either,
that I should very much admire the taste of
an intelligent lady, who remarked to me,
that the figure of my sister Maud was really
the finest in the room. I wonder if Mr. A.
remembers how I danced a reel with him
that evening? He was so awkward and un-
managable that, beginning at the head of
the set, when “down the centre” came for
us, I marched him to the foot and there
remained, and he still imagines, for ought I
know, that we went through the whole change
as did the others. My sister Eva, who was
dancing in the same set, laughed so much
that I almost became plagued over it. The
only unpleasantness that occurred, was that I
had to go home before I wanted to—I was
only fourteen,
	Three hundred and sixty-five days sped
by us, one after another, bringing each its
varying scenes. During that little period
one sister gave to earth a tiny, new inhabit-
ant; Eva was wooed, wen and wedded, and
another sister left us to return no more. In
less than six months time, birth, marriage
and death were all visitants of our family
circle.
	Yet there was no gloom around our fire-
side, as we sat and listened to father’s grave,
or humorous stories; and Maud and I 
repeated dialogues and sung songs and
hymns, on New Year's Eve, 1864.


ABUNDANTLY PROTECTED.—It was one
evening last Summer when a lady who be-
longs on the editorial staff of one of the
leading dailies of New York, had been
detained by office duties until rather a late
hour. Living on the Heights in Brooklyn,
but a short distance from Fulton Ferry, it
was not much of a venture to go home with-
out an escort, and so she started. On the
boat, standing outside enjoying the breeze
after the day’s toil, she perceived a gentle-
man (?) in rather close proximity to where
she was, but said nothing.
	“Are you alone?” said he, as the boat
neared the shore.
	“No, sir,” said the lady; and without
further interruption, when the boat touched,
she stepped off.
	"I thought you were not alone,” said the
fellow, stepping to her side again.
	“I am not,” replied the lady.
	“I don’t see any one. Who is with you?”
	“God Almighty and the angels; I’m never
alone.”	
	“You keep too good company for me,
madame; good night!” and he shot for a
Fulton Avenue car, then nearly a block
away. The heroic woman was permitted
to keep to “the right as the law directs,”
and enjoy that full measure of quiet satisfac-
tion one always feels from keeping good
company.


﻿THE SEX.
			    ——
	THE Grecian ladies counted their age
from their marriage, not their birth.
	FOUR hundred Brooklyn teachers, women,
have petitioned for an increase of salaries.
	JENNY Lind has been singing in the choir
of the American Episcopal Church in Flor-
ence.
	GRACE Greenwood has met with success
in her reading in Colorado.	
	THE story goes that the Empress Carlotta
will recover her health of body, but never
strength of mind.
	MISS Dixon, a Southern lady of admired
skill in penmanship, writes with both hands
simultaneously.
	THE young ladies of the Jackson Presby-
terian Female College have resolved them-
selves into a “Cozy Club.”
	A WOMAN named Mary Tabor has acted
as mate on a Missouri steamboat for two
years, earning forty-five dollars per month.
	FULLER states that Henry VIII, of Eng-
land, gave a woman the whole revenue of a
convent as a reward for making a pudding
which happened to gratify his taste.
	THE wife of Marshal Guebriant acted as
representative for France, and was acknowl-
edge as such, at the court of Ladislas IV.,
King of Poland, in 1646.
	HARRIET Martineau is a confirmed inva-
lid, and sees no visitors at her cottage,
"The Knoll,” at Ambleside, near Lake
Windermere, in England.
	A THOUSAND American girls, for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
considered good enough, are receiving their
education in France and Italy.
	THE funeral of Fanny Fern took place in
New York, and in accordance with the
wishes of the deseased, was private. The
remains were taken to Boston.
	A REMARKABLE incident is related of a
young girl in Dundee, whose hands and
feet were all amputated in consequence of
embolic gangrene and for whom artificial
hands and feet were specially devised,
which she uses with very little difficulty
and much satisfaction.
	THE Princess Louise of Hesse—Alice of
England--has been chosen first Prsident of the
International Association for the Protection
of the Rights of Women; and the Congress
of Darmstadt, which made this election, has
chosen several English women as corres-
ponding members.
	MADAME Von Goethe, widow of the great
German poet’s only son, recently died at
Weimar, Saxony, very old. During the
lifetime of her father-in-law, she did the
honors of the house, and presided at many a
social gathering marked by the presence of
the most eminent authors and politicians of
the age. Goethe loved her as a daughter,
and admired her writings, and at the time
she edited the Mitternacht “Zeitung,” used
to speak of her as one of the ablest critics of
the age
	THE girls employed by Macullar, Wil-
liams & Parker in their tailoring establish-
ment, Boston, declined to accept their wages
for one week’s work, thinking that the sum
in the aggregate might be acceptable in
consideration of the heavy losses of the firm.
On the other hand, the members of the firm,
solicitous for the welfare of those whose
losses might be small but sufferings great,
told Jennie Collins to send to them any
work girls, and particularly their own, who
might be in need and they would provide
for them.


﻿FLOWERS.
			      ——
	WHO lives to fancy, rarely can be rich, 
who lives to nature never can be poor.
	WALK worthy of your vocation! You have
a noble escutcheon, disgrace it not by folly.
	WHEN you write, or get a friend to write
on your own business or for your own 
advantages, be careful to pay the postage
yourself.
	THE best property a man can be possessed
of, since happiness is the boon for which all
wish to bargain, is a clear conscience and 
a contented mind.	
	A HIGH sense of honor in all things, an 
adherence to truth, delicacy and politeness
are the essential and	distinguished charac-
teristics of a gentleman.
	TRUTH dreads no scrutiny; shields herself 
behind no breastwork of established custom
or of respectable authority, but proudly
stands on her own merits.
	TO an active and an ingenious mind there
is no pursuit more fascinating than the
pursuit of knowledge, no pleasure more ex-
quisite than the discovery of truth.
	LABOR allied with virtue may look up to
heaven and not blush, while all worldly 
dignities, prostituted to vice, will leave 
their owner without a corner of the universe
in which to hide his shame.
	DON'T laugh in company without ex-
plaining why you laugh. There are always
some sensitive ones who will believe them-
selves ridiculed without the slightest occa- 
sion.
	VIRTUE and truth constitute true nobility, 
these can be your’s as well as another’s, you
have only to maintain them. The poorest	
and lowliest can be as truly noble as the
rich and great.
	THERE is more than one reason why "Ye
cannot serve God and mammon;” there is
not time to do both even if both could be
kept in remembrance; who ever heard of a
rich person (“one who trusted in his riches,”)
who could find time to keep holy the Sab-
bath?
	A GOOD action however small should
never be omitted, a kind word, no matter
how simple should never be suppressed. 
One little deed or word, often saves one
from dishonor, sometimes from destruction,
and the actors or speakers are never the
poorer for having given what cost them
nothing.
	IF darkness obscures your way, think of
those whose lives are darker still, and be
comforted; If sunshine and gladness is your
portion, try to infuse golden drops of the
same, into hearts less fortunate and thus
increase your store; for like a spring of
water is the human heart; the more you
draw out of it, the more it is capable of re-
ceiving.


﻿NECESSARY EVILS.
					—
	The other evening, being out in company,
I heard a gentlemen (?) declare that women
were necessary evils. Now was not that
brilliant? Quite original. In down East
phraseology, let me exclaim “due tell.”
Being only a woman, I was covered with a
due sense of my degraded position. A
necessary evil!
	Will anybody define man’s position on
this sublunary sphere?
	Let me whisper in your ear—this gentle-
man has had three wives—think he is
rather fond of said evils, but don’t know.
	Wonder if his sons with such training
won’t become unmitigated causes of regret to
some poor necessary evils.
						ONE OF THEM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CHILDREN’S VOICES.
			       —--
	On the 15th of December, 1872, there was
a sort of Sabbath School exhibition in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Music, sing-
ing and recitations were offered by children
of all sizes, from the “we wean” that gave
its little story in a perpect baby tone, to
adult manhood. There is something so
winsome, so benignly sweet in the voice of
innocence, that the same words spoken or
sung by persons of more mature years seem
to convey a different impression, and to have
a less desirable effect upon the heart. And
on this particular Sabbath it might have
been a fancy, but if so it was a very happy
one—it seemed as though the very voices of
the children had really become like those of
the angels, especially in their singing.
“Children may come to the Savior” and
“Hearts and Homes,” were rendered with
so much pathos that tears, grateful, pleasant
tears might have done honor to the eyes of
a soldier who had been a listener; but
“Music”—
	“There’s music by the fireside,
	“There’s music in the hall;
	“There’s music in the school-room,
	“There’s music for us all;
	"There’s music in the fountain;
	“There’s music in the air;
	“There's music in the true heart,
	“There’s music everywhere:”
How shall the rendering of this immortal
eulogy on the divine art be described !
The very touch of the tiny, child fingers,
upon the keys of the organ sounded as if
softened by the influence of sweet souled
messengers from choirs above!
	The neately arranged little dialogue and
song “What was witnessed in the Heavens?”
was also very chastely and sweetly executed.
	The singing was all delighful, the recita-
tions splendid.	Where order is so well ob-
served, who could ever tire of “children’s
voices?” Let us have more music.


THE seal can be readily tamed, and be-
comes very affectionate. It may be taught
many things, such as shaking hands, bowing
and kissing. The cry of the seal is soft and
flute-like, and resembles certain sounds
common to all languages, “pa pa” or “ma
ma.”


A PRIZE !
				     ——
	Should be in every house!
		The SINGER SEWING MACHINE!
Will do the most delicate and elegant, as well as
the strongest or plainest, sewing, in a style un-
equalled by any other Machine. Received the first
diploma at the Territorial Fair, in October last. Its 
Embroidery attachment is an object of general ad-
miration.
	More of the Singer are sold than of any other
Machine. Call and see them at the Singer Sewing
Machine Department, two doors south of Eagle
Emporium, Salt Lake City. 
				Z. C. M. I. General Agents. 
_______________________________________________

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES. 
			  

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
						DUNFORD & SONS, 
							SALT LAKE CITY.
[new column]
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
			    ——
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah,
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
________________________________________________
			JOHNSON’S
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !
Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
BONESET PILLS.  Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
		ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of	
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.   Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

Z. C. M. I. 
	
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

 We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable, 
		
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
	
riety of our Patrons. 

	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated

		SALT LAKE GLOVES.	

Children's Hosiery, Shoos, and Gloves, a specialty. 
	
   While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics

of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,

Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-

est possible figure. 
				  H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't. 
[new column]

		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				 —
	     A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.
				 —
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral 
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani- 
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet- 
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented 
by others !"
	For these reasons, and that wemen may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica- 
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by, 
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been 
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their matings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and secretarics of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each  number containing eight pages, quarte. 
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah. 
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance :
  1 Copy one year,       $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year,    18.00     10 Copies six months,    9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months. 
	It is earnestly desired that the bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, 
Utah. 

Dr. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST, 
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City. 
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
			   ——
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy [-]ing
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.
