VOL. I	SALT LAKE CITY, ﻿UTAH, MAY 1, 1873. 	No. 23.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
		     —
	"ANOTHER WIFE murder” might be
almost the terrible daily cry now. Edgewoods,
near Boston, furnished one of the latest
victims.
	THERE ARE indications of wide-spread
troubles with the savage Indians, and the
savage white man howls madly for exter-
mination.
	MORE OFFICIAL defalcations, and an
occasional pardon for a criminal against the
government, continue to stir the stagnant
flow of public life.
	UTAH AFFAIRS continue to occupy public
attention throughout the country, and dis-
cussion on them shows a plentiful lack of
information on the subject.
	JAPAN WANTS Christianity for state
reasons, though. Many people pretend
they have it, when it is only policy that
dictates the pretense.
	A VIGOROUS political editor inquired, when
informed that Governor Kellogg had lately
been hanged in effigy in New Orleans, why
the people didn’t hang him in earnest in-
stead of in effigy.
	ANOTHER HORRIBLE railroad accident
has occurred, this time in Connecticut,
with “nobody to blame” as usual. Unlike
the steamer Atlantic horror, which was a
prolific topic for over a week, this occupied
public attention for only a day or two!
	AMERICAN COMMISSIONERS to the Vienna
Exposition are charged with the gravest
corruption and venality, and the scandal is
the talk of two continents. Honesty in
public officers would seem to be only “a
relic of barbarism,” like purity and earnest
piety.
	INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY is a late
discovery of importance. The fast horse
“Occident,” owned by ex-Governor Stan-
ford, of California, was photographed while
running at a speed of thirty-two feet a
second. The value of this discovery will
be better understood in the future.
	THE LAVA Bed, where the Modoc In-
dians have their hiding place, is said by
geologists, to be an outflow of volcanic
matter, forming a sea of melted rock which
has hardened and again become like rock,
covering probably a hundred square miles,
and honeycombed with caverns, where it is
impossible to get at them by those unac-
quainted with the nature of the locality.
	HERE IS how “Gath”—or George Alfred
Townsend—in the Chicago Tribune, alludes
to the travels of Dr. Newman and his clerk
—Mrs. Newman. “Gath” has a nice way of
putting it:  “The days of the itinerant
ministry have returned, and the Rev. Dr.
Newman will go on circuit—to Japan. He
travels, like Lorenzo and Peggy Dow, with
his wife, M. F.—,on a free steamship pass.
I refer to the M. F. because under these
modest initials the lady was concealed in
the appointment.”
	A COLORED student of a law-school in the
District of Columbia, was, the other day,
admitted to practice before the Supreme
Court of that Territory. The Supreme
Court of Illinois refuses Myra Bradwell the
right to practice law, because she is a
[new column]
woman, and the Supreme Court of the
United States affirms the decision, because
it is a matter in which the State is supreme;
but in Utah both the colored law-student
and white woman could have been admitted
to the bar on terms of equality. Will some
one tell us what peculiar kind of slavery this
then is, which so manifests itself in Utah?
	THE SUPREME Court of the United States
having decided in the case of Myra Brad-
well against the State of Illinois, that a
woman is not a citizen under the 14th
Amendment to the Constitution, and there-
fore cannot vote, it becomes the duty of all
women, and of all who desire they should
possess their just rights, to earnestly and
persistently agitate for the passage of the
16th Amendment, to secure a recognition of
woman’s right to earn honestly and honor-
ably the means to live, and have a voice as
the political equal of man, in saying how
the taxes, of which she pays her share, shall
be disposed of.
	LOUISIANA IS still terribly unsettled; and
less than a couple of weeks ago a battle
occurred between the whites and blacks, in
which over a hundred of the latter were
shot down. This is veritably a war of races,
and is the result of forcing, by law, the
freedmen into positions of social equality
with and political superiority over their
former owners. It is affirmed that the votes
of the last election have been ignored, and
the Kelogg government, or that sustained
by the colored citizens, is upheld by the
Federal government. Such a condition of
affairs ill accords with the claim of prosper-
ous peace all over the country; and indicates
a condition of feeling which may work much
evil and misery before it is removed.
	ONE OF the Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of this Territory, T. J. Drake,
sold out his position to O. F. Strickland,
who held the office of Judge here for nearly
four years; and now the whole matter has
been exposed by the commencement of a
suit for tbe recovery of the price of the judi-
cial position. Yet such men have not a
sense of shame sufficient to even try and
cover up their disgrace! No wonder poli-
ticians talk of the incorruptibility of public
men, when here was a Federal Judge, an
officer supposed to be immaculateness per-
sonified, who valued his honor, his official
position and his reputation at $2,800; and
he found a buyer who is charged with be-
coming rich in four years on $3,000 a year,
but who was never wealthy enough to pay
the bill he contracted in buying his office.
And these are the men whose voices have
been so potent against the people of Utah.
	“CAPTAIN JACK,” chief of the Modoc
Indians, on the borders of California and
Oregon, after having failed to receive ac-
ceptable terms from the Peace Commis-
sioners treacherously invited another “peace
talk,” and at the council thus held he and
the Indians with him shot and killed Gen-
eral Canby and Dr. Thomas, one of the
Commissioners, and seriously injured Mr.
Meacham, another Commissioner. Then a cry
rang through the land for the utter exter-
mination of the Modocs, men, women and
children; a cry so barbarously savage, as if
the vengeful Indian spirit had swept over
the country with the utmost fierceness. A
[new column]
noble people, a Christian people, a truly
civilized people, seek justice, not revenge, but
this wild and implacable thirst for revenge,
leveling death against a whole people, youth
and age, manhood and infancy, male and
female, because their leaders, driven to
desperation and goaded by repeated wrongs,
planned and brutally perpetrated a foul
murder, is neither noble, Christian nor civi- 
lized.	
	WE CLIP from the Washington Star, of
April 16th, the following, which settles
negatively woman’s claim to equal rights
even with the colored masculines, under the
14th Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States: “The case of Myra Brad-
well, plaintiff in error vs. the State of Illi-
nois, has been decided in favor of defendant
by the United States Supreme Court, the
Chief Justice alone dissenting. Mrs. Brad-
well, who is the editor of a Chicago law
journal, applied for permission to practice
law in the Supreme Court of Illinois; sub-
mitting the requisite certificate as to charac-
ter and qualification. The application was
denied on the ground that a woman is not
entitled to admission. The applicant
appealed to the Supreme Court of the United
States, claiming that she is a citizen of the
United States, and, therefore, is entitled to
the privilege of practising law in the
State of Illinois, under the provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The United States
Supreme Court affirm the judgment of the
Illinois Supreme Court. Mr. Justice Miller
delivered the opinion of the court. Justices
Bradley, Swayne, and Field concurred in
the judgment, but not in the opinion.”
	AS AN illustration of the quickness of
the eye and delicacy of touch which woman
undoubtedly possesses in a superior degree
to man, we take the following from a
Washington paper; merely adding, that as 
a result of numerous experiments woman
experts are exclusively employed in this
department of the government offices: “Miss
Patterson, of the United States Treasurer’s
office, with two female assistants, has been
at work every bright day for two weeks 
past in overhauling, for the purpose of
identification, the packages of bank notes
and securities which were so badly burned
by Anderson, the insane cashier of Lamber-
ton’s bank, at Franklin, Pennsylvania, about
a month since. Many of these papers were
almost wholly destroyed, in fact, in some
instances bills and other papers were com-
pletely consumed, nothing remaing but
small portions of the ashy fabric, which a
breath of air would have broken into minute
particles. Notwithstanding this, so deli-
cately and carefully have these vague
vestiges of what was once money been
manipulated by the experts that almost all
the notes and securities have been identified,
and those issued by the government will be
redeemed by Uncle Sam. The railroad and
other corporation bonds will doubtless be
redeemed by the companies issuing them.
Ex-Representative Gillfillan, son-in-law of 
Mr. Lamberton, the president of the bank,
and who has been in Washington for several
weeks watching the process of identification,
is greatly pleased with the result, and
speaks in high terms of the skill of General
Spinners’s experts.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.
				   —
	The following sweetly expressive lines, full of the
simplicity of nature, were written by the second wife
of an Elder in Israel, addressed to the first wife of
her husband.	

	In the old log cabin in the hills, Mary,
		We have spent many happy hours;
	Our children p'aying about the door,
		As bright as the summer flowers.
	And though we have sighed for social life,
		And the joy which friendship brings,
	We have found there are pleasures in duty’s path,
		Pleasures which leave no stings.

	Sometimes we have felt we were banished, Mary,
		And as days and weeks rolled by,
	We looked to the Eastern mountains,
		With longing, wishful eye.
	We sometimes feel as if shut out
		From friends and kindred dear;
	Yet this is but a moment’s thought—
		For duty calls us here.

	To teach and instruct our boys, Mary,
		To guide their footsteps aright;
	Will do much for us to accomplish,
		If we do it with all our might:
	How, then, can we ever be lonely,
		With this great mission to fill?
	By the Spirit of Truth directed,
		Teach them Jehovah’s will.

	How we may spend our future,
		Or where our lot be cast.
	We know not, may we ne’er regret
		The unforgotten past;
	And may memory turn with pleasure, Mary,
		To the lonely days we spent,
	In the old log cabin away in the hills, 
		On "every-day duties” intent.
										E. A. B.
April 16th, 1866.


R﻿ELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			    —
	By especial invitation, sisters Precendia
L. Kimball, Sarah M. Kimball and Zina D.
Young attended the Annual meeting of the
Relief Society of West Jordan, held in the
school-house on the 14th of March. There
was a full attendance of the sisters and
a goodly number of the brethren present.
The singing by a juvenile choir, trained and
led by the President, Sister Pixton, was ex-
cellent. It was a delight to see the officiat-
ing of Sister Pixton, in her presidency
—acting, as she herself expressed it, as a
“Shepherdess” over the flock entrusted to
her care. As such she trains the choir,
watches, over the young, and comforts the
poor, the aged, and afllicted all around her.
Indeed, her example is worthy of commen--
dation to all. The Society numbers forty-
eight members. The sisters had donated
and prepared a number of articles for a Fair
which certainly was most creditable to
them. These articles were disposed of to the
amount of $43:65, to be appropriated to the
building of a house for the Society. Besides
this, there was considerable donated by the
brethren, with the promise of liberal assist-
ance in future. Much valuable instruction
was given by the sisters from the city as
well as the brethren and sisters of the
Ward. Sister S. M. Kimball suggested and
advocated the formation of a Physiological
class, for the benefit of the community in
general in that locality. This suggestion
met with general approval and a resolution
to form a class was adopted. By the re-
quest of the President and Secretary of the
Society I have prepared, and forward this
report.
			PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, March 20th, 1873.

	Meeting of the Relief Society, 16th Ward,
held in the new school house on the 6th of
March, 1873. Bishop Kesler and Counselor
Riser were present and addressed the sisters,
commending them for their faithfulness,
and tendering to them the use of a room
[new column]
in the new house for their meetings, which
was most gratefully received by the Society.
	PRECENDIA L. KIMBALL, Secretary.

	Sister Melissa Reynolds writes from Heber
City, Wasatch County:—“There is a unity
of feeling among the faithful sisters here,
and improvement in grace and the know-
ledg of the truth is the general aim. And
our sincere desires are that we may be
instrumental in achieving much good in
our day.”
	Accompanying this pleasant report, comes
a list of subscriptions, which is a positive
proof that the EXPONENT is acceptable in
the Society, and corroborative of the senti-
ments expressed.

	From Paris, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory
comes the following, written April 10th,
1873: The annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Paris, was held in the Second
Ward School House, last Thursday at 2
o’clock p. m., and as our sisters in Utah,
have not heard much from those who live In
this northern country, I take pleasure in
writing to the EXPONENT concerning our
condition and feelings. Our meeting was
not so well attended by members, the roads
being very bad, as it otherwise would have
been; but we had the company of President
C. C. Rich, and Bishops Budge and Horne.
The meeting being called to order by our
respected President, sister Julia Lindsay,
Bishop Budge engaged in prayer, after
which the Secretary read a financial state-
ment of last year’s business, which showed
that the Society had collected two hundred
and eighty-three dollars and forty-four
cents and spent in assisting the poor, one
hundred and fifty dollars and seventy-nine
cents, leaving a balance in the Treasury of
one hundred and forty-two dollars and sixty-
five cents. This was considered very satis-
factory, and the sisters felt thankful, that
they had been able to help the needy so
much. President Rich, being invited, occu-
pied some time in giving instructions in
his usual kind and fatherly manner, impart-
ing much encouragement to the sisters.
He expressed great confidence in the
perpetual success of the Society, if the
members would continue to cultivate the
spirit of union. Bishop Budge followed
with suitable remarks, and advised care and
instruction by mothers to the children, thus
laying the foundation for improved lives.
President Rich asked the members if they
were still willing to sustain their President,
Mrs. J. Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs.
Caroline Kimball and Mrs. Elizabeth Col-
lins in their callings, and received a hearty
response in the affirmative, Sister Nancy
Rich was appointed Treasurer in place of
sister Stucki, whom circumstances prevented
from continuing in that office, which she
had faithfully filled. During the meeting
an excellent spirit prevailed, and the
Teachers reported a very good feeling in
the settlement towards the Society. It was
arranged to have a Society Social Party,
which came off last night, and was a com-
plete success,—only, so great was the general
confidence that it would be a good one, that
the hall was rather crowded. The best of
feelings prevailed, however, and the Com-
mittee, sisters Mary Oakey and Emeline
Rich were highly complimented for the
neatness and convenience of every thing.
I must not forget to say that we were
advised to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT which we intend doing.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					    ALICE MARGETTS.

	Extracts from minutes of the 55th meet-
[new column]
ing of the Senior and Junior Co-operative
Retrenchment Association of Salt Lake
City, held April 12th 1873, in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms. Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young, presiding in the absence of
President Mrs. Mary L Horne, suggested
that as there was no particular subject to be
that day considered, the meeting be one for
testimony, and that each one speak as she
might be led by the Holy Spirit.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball did not
wish to feel, on such an occasion that she
had nothing to say; it was very important
that all weigh themselves occasionally
And see if they really had faith in God
and were worthy of a place in His Kingdom.
Women and girls should be instructed in
branches of learning appropriate for them to
put to use, that they might assist in sus-
taining themselves. There was nothing
improper, unlady like or undignified in a
woman’s taking charge of a post office, or
any such light business; but it was right
and proper for women to qualify themselves
for such occupations which were more suit-
able for them than the heavy washing and
other kinds of work which some of them do
now, and which should be performed by
men.
	Mrs. Harriet C. Young and several other
sisters bore impressive testimonies to the
truth and validity of the Latter-day work.
Counselor Mrs. Elizabeth Howard said it
was a great comfort to her to have the con-
fidence of her sisters; that they should be
careful and not do anything to shake the
confidence of those they loved; exhorted
her sisters to keep the word of wisdom;
their daughters should be taught to make
themselves useful and to be self sustaining.
	Counselors Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff and B.
W. Smith, and sisters Hampton, P. L. Kim-
ball and others made suitable remarks,
giving much valuable instruction and ask-
ing blessings to rest upon Israel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks to meet
at the same place at 2 o’clock, p. m. Sing-
ing—benediction by Mrs. Eleanor Pratt.
	M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

	Farmington, Davis County, under date of
April 17th, sends the following:
	In reading the EXPONENT I see reports
from Relief Societies in other settlements,
and feel that I have been neglectful in not
reporting how we prosper as a Society in
Farmington  I think I can safely say that
we are improving; for although our regular
meetings, which we hold monthly, are not
so well attended as they should be, yet from
the reports given by the Teachers, after
visiting their districts, the sisters generally
feel well in their religion, and are willing,
when called upon, to donate what they can
for charitable purposes. It is only very
lately, that, by the suggestion of our Presi-
dent, Mrs. S. J. Holmes, the Society donated
seventy-five dollars for the Temple, and
received a receipt for that amount, besides
helping our Bishop in other public matters.
But we think it a duty as well as a pleasure
to assist him when we can. We meet to
work every two weeks; and, from what I
can learn, are about like other Societies in
general. We have a faithful President and
Counselors to take the lead. I have
lived in Farmington twenty-two years and
do not think there is a community where
the ladies are more willing to assist the sick,
and administer to their wants than in this
place; which I think is something in our
favor; for where and when is the true friend
needed more than in times of sickness and
distress? I prize your paper very much
and hope your subscribers will increase and


all who have a desire to, may be, able to
purchase it. 
			Yours Respectfully,
				A. S. Rogers, Secretary. 

	This comes from Wallsburg, Wasatch
County:
	Wallsburg is a small place containing
only about forty-five families; consequently
our means are limited; but the Relief
Society has always been able to meet the
call for charity and have a surplus on hand.
We hold meeting once a month, and all feel
well towards the cause engaged in.
			Sarah Glenn, Secretary.

	We receive the following from Meadow
Creek, Millard County: At a meeting held
by our Relief Society, March 8th, 1873, the
word “Female” was dispensed with, accord-
ing to suggestion. We are not a wealthy
Society, but with the help of the Lord we
intend to improve in all good as the time
advances. The Society has been organ-
ized three years. We have not many poor
among us; are thankful that we have a
kind and faithful President, and feel to
sustain her with our faith and prayers, and
with our hands also.
				Martha Adams, President. 
	Selina Adams Secretary.

		Salt Lake City, April 23rd, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	President B. Young, in some of his re-
marks during Conference advocated the
cause of woman most kindly and wisely, for
which the young ladies of the 8th Ward
Retrenchment Association return him a vote
of thanks, and wish him to live long to see
them prosper under his judicious guidance.
	Louisa C. Spencer, President.
	Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Counselor.
	Anne Loss, Secretary pro. tem.

	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Harrisville, Weber County, is reported as
follows: Our annual meeting, which, to
agree with former dates, should have been
held some weeks before, but was postponed
on account of the prevalence of the measels
in the settlement, we held on the 20th of
April.. It was well attended by the sisters
and a goodly number of the brethren who
gave much good instruction. The financial
report, presented by the Treasurer, Mrs.
Louisa Harris, showed that in the past year
there had been given into the Society $61:60,
$18:10 having been disbursed, there was
remaining in the treasury, in goods $19:20,
and in cash $24:30.
		Mrs. Melissa Shirtliff, President.
	Mrs. Mary Taylor, Secretary.

	The sisters write from Gunnison, April
23rd, 1873: We have had a Relief Society
in this place since September 7th, 1867.
On the 17th of May, 1868, we were reorgan-
ized as a Society, according to the pattern
set by sister E. R. Snow. Although our
“mites” put together, may not amount to
more than “a drop in the bucket,” compara-
tively, yet, we feel that we are doing our
best. Our Treasury has disbursed, to the
Emigration Fund, the Temple, the poor at
home, and other investments, about $500.
	Knowing, that with our means, our power
to do good will increase, and that “He that
giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,” we
cheerfully join, heart and hand with our
sister Societies, in the grand object for
which we were organized. The Exponent
is a valuable companion in our Semi-monthly
sewing meetings. In our last meeting we
agreed to omit the word “Female” from the
[new column]
name of ouir Society.   We feel there is an
important work before us, destined to make
a link in the chain of the great reformatory,
plan in these Latter-days.
			  Lydia Horne, President.
	Helena Madsen, Secretary.

	On Saturday, the 26th of April, another
interesting testimony meeting was held by
the Co-operative Retrenchment Association
of this city, at their usual place of meeting.
Among the speakers were Counselors Airs.
Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff; and sisters Willmarth
East, Pixton from South Cottonwood, Mag-
jgie C. Shipp, and Sarah Wheeler from the
Sugar House Ward.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
			       —
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Having read the beautiful testimonies of
many of my sisters in the Gospel, that have
appeared from time to time in your paper,
I feel that I, too, should not neglect to add
my own to the list. It is more than twenty-
six years since I first became associated
with the Saints of God.   I crossed the Plains
in the first company of “Hand-carts; I
realized the blessings promised to those who
would start relying onl Israel’s God for
strength and protection, and I can truly say,
that in all, the varied and trying scenes I
have had to pass through, I have never been
forsaken by my Heavenly Father; but
through all I have enjoyed that peace of
mind which none but the Saints of God can
know. I feel very glad that there is a
channel through which woman can speak her
true feelings, for I consider that however
much the women of Utah may be pitied or
ridiculed by their sisters in the outside
world, there are thousands who would be
glad to occupy the position we hold, for are
we not the respected, and honored wives of 
heaven’s true nobility? Do not our chil-
dren have the privilege of acknowledging
their fathers, and fathers their children,
honorably sustaining them? I feel thankful
that God in his mercy has revealed a princple
by which our sons and daughters can be
reared in virtue, and free from the contam-
inating evils of celibacy. “Better, far
better,” our position to-day, as the wives of
polygamists, than that of millions of women
in the world, who are daily the victims of
men who have a “holy horror” of polygamy,
but yet hesitate not to ruin the fair charac-
ter of women, and then with scorn, trample
her under their feet—simply because she
trusted in their boasted honor! How long
shall the strong triumph over the weak?
Surely, we have cause to pray that the time
will soon come when righteousness shall
cover the earth as the waters cover the
mighty deep, and the voice of the oppressed
be no more heard in sorrow and lamenta-
tions.
	praying God to hasten the time of their
redemption.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant of
peace,					Mrs.	 A. Randal.
	Spanish Fork, April 22nd, 1873.


﻿The fact of one Federal Judge in Utah
selling out his position and getting the
purchaser appointed in his place, while the
latter refused to pay the purchase money,
is creating considerable comment throughout
the country. Evidently the character of
the men who have often been appointed to
such important positions in the Territories,
and notably in Utah, is not yet knonw to
the country. If it were, there would be less
sympathy with many of their lawless and
tyrannous acts.


﻿WHAT-NOT. 
				—
	Nothing is so reasonable and cheap as 
good manners.
	A LOUISIANA operator makes soap out of 
cotton seed. 
	LOUISVILLE policemen are provided with
wheelbarrows.	
	TUNEFUL lyre—a music teacher who does
not keep his engagements.
	A CONNECTICUT horse has acquired the
habit of chewing tobacco. Poor horse!
	A DETROIT youth has no forehead, the
hair growing down close to the eyes. Poor 
boy!	
	A CROSS-eyed man in Newberg has
gathered around him seven cross-eyed
servants.
	THE stocking manufacturers of Newark
N. J., say that the largest sizes are shipped
to Chicago.
	A YOUNG lawyer in North Carolina was 
recently paid a pound of butter for legal 
services.
	THACKERY says that a critic is a Solo-
mon that sits in judgment before us and
chops up our children.		
	A LOUISVILLE man is so opposed to	
capital punishment that he can’t even
tolerate paper hanging. 
	If you should be asked when a cat is like a
teapot, you might reply, “When you’re
teasin’ it.”
	A MAN out West says he moved so many 
times during one year that when ever a 
covered wagon stopped at the gate his 
chickens would fall on their backs and hold 
up their feet, in order to be tied and thrown
in.
	A GENTLEMAN was complimenting a pretty	
young lady in the presence of his wife. "It 
is lucky I did not meet Miss Hopkins before 
I married you my dear.” “Well, yes, it is
extremely lucky—for her,” was the dry
rejoinder.
	WHAT a glorious world this would be, if 
all its inhabitants could say, with Shake-
speare’s shepherd: “Sir, I am a true laborer!  
I earn what I wear; I owe no man hate,
envy no man’s happiness, glad of other
men’s good: content with my farm.” 
	MRS. Moore, an industrious woman of
Topeka, Kansas, earned money enough to
support a good-for-nothing husband and
bring a niece to live with them. The
husband eloped with the niece and she is
now nicely rid of both.
	“Mother,” said a little girl, who was
making her doll an apron, “I believe I will
be a dutchess when I grow up.” How do
you expect to be a Dutchess, my daughter?” 
“Why, by marrying a Duthman, to be
sure,” replied the girl.
	SINCE their only schoolma’am eloped
from Green Bay, Wis., the school directors
advertise for a teacher that is over forty
years of age, has had the small-pox, with
poor teeth, and a glass eye, and wooden leg,
if possible. Any girl answering these re-
commendations can secure a permanent
job by applying early.
	A LITTLE boy was playing with a couple
of five cent pieces, the other evening, which
a friend had given him, and putting his
finger on one of them, said, “This one I am
going to give to the heathen.” He kept on
playing till at last one of the pieces rolled
away, and he could not find it.   “Which
one have you lost?” asked the friend.
“The one I was going to give to the hea-
then,” replied the cherub.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	LOUISE L. GREENE, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City. Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
linos of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					  Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt	Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1873.


﻿ 	SPLINTERS.
				     —	
	George Francis Train protested against
the attempt to place him in better quarters
than those he previously occupied in the
Tombs......It is estimated by eminent phy-
sicians that nearly one-third of the luxuries,
under the name of “ice cream,” manufac-
tured in France, is composed of poisonous
substances......“Elm Orlou” thinks it un-
generous for “the fellow” to be blamed with
every silly thing said that every one else is
ashamed of, by every bodys saying “as the
fellow said.”......Edward Eggleston, once
“Reverend Divine,” writes novels now......
Church singing in Santo Domingo, a writer
pronounces good in no way but the zest
with which it is participated in......Eighty-
five young doctors lately graduated at Ann
Arbor, Michigan; and twelve of them were
women......Maria Hawley, of the “Balance,”
Chicago, thinks though it is more unlawful
it is not more unrighteous for robbers to
take wealth at midnight, than for wealthy
people to take the labor of others at unfair
prices, which is a good and just thought......
Two lady deacons officiate in the Clinton
Avenue Congressional Church, Brooklyn......
A machine for making French lace, contain-
ing one hundred bobbins, has been invented
by a lady at Cedar Falls, Iowa......Ladies are
to be admitted to the Boston University
upon the same condition as gentlemen......
Grace Greenwood lectures on “In-doors.”....
A Boston mother complains of a lecturer
who talks only to the boys, while her poor
children, being girls, are not addressed......
Charlotte A. Barber soon begins a lecture
tour in Michigan......A lady writer says
“sin is so convenient, man wants to keep it;”
it is a great pity that once in a while, woman
interferes with his wants......The Board of
Education in Yorkshire, England, has as
coadjutors, a Lady’s Honorary Council, to
aid, by practical work and suggestion, the
better education of women.......General J.
W. S. Browne, one of the founders of the
Cincinnati “Commercial,” lately died at
Memphis......A petition for the repeal of
the social evil-law of St Louis, has been
presented to the Legislature of Missouri, and
is reported to have been signed by over
7,000 women......The Arkansas House of
Representatives has passed a bill, fixing the
pay of teachers at the same amount, without
regard to sex......Columbia, Maine, has F. C. &
C. H. Nash, husband and wife, for a law firm.....
The Bloomfield, Missouri “Republican,”
is to be managed hereafter by a woman,
Mrs. Sarah E. White......It is announced
that Joaquin Miller is writing “By the Sun-
down Seas.”......There is to be a “Woman’s
Journal,” published in Washington......Miss
Smiley, the preacher, is said to be a small
woman with wonderfully beautiful, expres-
sive eyes......The Emperor William of Ger-
many has conferred the Cross of Honor upon
Mary Von Olnhousen, of Lexington, as a
recognition of her services as nurse in the
German hospitals during the war with
France......April storms, this year, in Ne-
braska, were the most severe ever witnessed
there at any season of the year......Woman
Suffragists are rapidly increasing; many
who cared nothing about it a year ago begin
to clamor loudly.....Liquor laws are exten-
sively talked of; may the right ones be
rigidly enforced......Billerica, Massachusetts,
was honored the other Sunday by having
the minister's daughter to conduct the
church services, her father being unable to
attend......Beecher says it should not only
be the privilege of every woman to vote
but her duty as well......Royalston, Massa-
chusetts, Superintendent of Common Schools
[new column]
is a woman......The Pope praises the pro-
tection that Catholics enjoy in the Burmese
Empire......A young lady in Ohio recently
fell dead while on her way to be baptised.
......A half dozen new papers have lately been
started in Paraguay......The Duchess of In-
verness, wife of the late Duke of Sussex and
aunt to Queen Victoria, is pronounced in a
serious state......A rascal in Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, knocked a gentleman in the head
with a bludgeon the other night, and rob-
bed him of thirty-five dollars; the gentle-
man proved to be his father......Miss Ann
Wallace, a lineal descendant of Sir William
Wallace, recently died at Glasgow, at the
age of one hundred and three years......
It is again reported that Maria Alexand-
rovna, only daughter of the Czar, is to
marry the Duke of Edinburg......Turkish
Journals state that Halim Pacha, uncle of
the Egyptian Khedive, has been appointed
Ambassador at St. Petersburg......A Mrs.
Hutchins, in Maine, is eighty-seven years
old, has forty-seven grand-children and has
never yet seen a steamboat or a railroad car.
......A Boston bakery is said to have been
set on fire by some piping-hot Graham
crackers......A gentleman in the same city
keeps the small-pox hospital plentifully
supplied with flowers; this should be the
work of a gentle woman......The people in
a Florida town don’t like the arrangements
of keeping pigs in the cellar beneath the
church, because they sqeal during service.
......A young lady in Minneapolis lately
fell so desperately in love that, her affec-
tions being unrequited, it dethroned her
reason and drove her to the insane asylum.
......A woman in Fairfield County, Conn.,
only thirty-two years of age, has three
grand-children.


﻿WOMAN ON WOMAN’S NEEDS.
				—
	Miss Emily Faithful, before her departure
from New York on her return voyage to Eng-
land, delivered a farewell lecture in Steinway
Hall, of that city, which treated largely on the
Woman Question, and contained many pointed
truths and touching facts. The following ex-
tract we take from a report of her lecture in
the New York Tribune, of April 4th, which will
convey the drift of her position:
	In England there are now nearly three
million women dependent on their own exer-
tions. To tell such as these that woman’s
proper sphere is home is mockery, for they are
forced from their homes to get bread. Though
many a barrier to woman's livelihood has been
broken down, there are still terrible difficulties
in finding employment for women. Specially
onerous is the effort in the case of those of
fallen fortunes, members of genteel classes.
To relieve such Miss Faithful had founded a
“Fund for Destitute Gentlewomen,” to which
she would devote the proceeds of the lecture.
True it is that young men now find it hard
to get suitable work; they often have to go
West. But thereis no an alogy among them to
the wholesale yearly destruction of consciences,
bodies and souls among women—destruction
too often brought about by destitution. How
can tender-hearted people fold their hands
[new column]
while so many of their sisters are driven to the
gates of hell by want of bread? Statements
are published that capable women, willing to
work, can get employment at good wages.
Good, steady, skilled labor is wanted in just
those departments where women have gained
position. The unremitting, earnest applica-
tion required to acquire skill in these depart
ments, is hard for women to go through. In
them love of work for its own sake is no more
inherent than in men. Moreover, women are
always looking for the possible emancipator.
Men have nothing but their work to look to for
dependence. The greatest evil of all is the
lack of the right early training, and for this,
the family, the parents, society in general,
must be impeached. Society casts a stigma on
women who earn their own livelihood, and
parents pray that their daughters may never
be brought so low. As to education; a girl’s
training stops just where the main part of a
boy’s begins. Men are allowed full opportunity
to devote themselves to their chosen work,
and are not diverted by social demands. Wo-
men are at the beck and call of everybody, as it
were, and have so many society duties, so many
distracting little trifles to attend to, that the
wonder is not that there has not been a female
Shakespeare, Raphael, Newton, but that women
have done so much.
	The problem, what we shall do with our
redundent women in England, is answered by
some philosophers by proposing emigration
and marriage. But emigration has already
been tried, and Scotch, English, and Irish
have been sent to Australia and America in large
numbers without much diminishing the gravity
of the problem; while as for marriage there
is yet to be found the woman to say “No” when
the right man appears. As long as the num-
ber of women in Great Britain exceeds that of
the number of men by six per cent., marriage
will not wholly do away with the difficulty
unless Mormonism is tried. True marriage is
the crown and glory of a woman's life; but it
must be founded on love, and not on the desire
of a home or of support, while nothing can be
more deplorable, debasing, and corrupting than
the loveless marriages brought about in our
upper society by a craving ambition and a long-
ing for a good settlement. Loveless marriages
and a different standard of morality for men
and women are the curses of modern society.
The dignity of labor is not properly appreciated.
We agree that work is honorable in a man,
but are not yet convinced that idleness is dis-
honorable in a woman. A contempt for work
is at the bottom of the mind of a fashionable
young lady. Frivolity is so general that it is
surprising that so much good survives in spite
of neglect. So long as we frown down aud
sneer at the efforts to enlarge woman’s sphere,
we are encouraging frivolity and idleness in
women. We hear the interests and rights of
women spoken of as if these could be separated
from those of man, as if men and women were
creatures of a different kind. A most common
and mischievous error is that which would
make woman the mere shadow and attendant
of her lord, as if a shadow could be a true
helpmeet, We have long heard the man’s
sphere is the world; woman’s is home. But
women have a part in the world, while men
are not ciphers in the home circle.
	This is the language of a true woman; of one
who comprehends that woman has a nature of
her own, distinct of itself, but one which is
never wholly satisfied unless she is fulfilling
her designed mission on earth, by becoming a
loved and honored wife and occupying that
position wherein the responsibilities of mater-
nity are hers. She should have the right to
work, and receive fair pay for it; she should
enjoy representation with taxation; she should
be allowed to fill every honorable position in
society for which she has capacity; but she
should not have her womanly feelings crushed
out, nor her woman's heart deadened; for above
all she should enjoy the right to a home and a
husband, to have a voice in the choiceof the man
with whom she unites her destinies, and fill
the noblest, holiest and most exalted position
occupied by humanity on the earth—that of
moulding pliant, tender beings for lofty pur-
poses in time and an exalted immortality here-
after. 
	In England, Miss Faithful says, are three


millions of women dependent on their own ex-
ertions. They have no husbands, or perhaps
worse than none—men who degrade their
manhood, cease to be beings whom woman
can love or respect; and instead of being
woman’s protectors, guides and supporters,
become burthens upon the weaker sex and a
disgrace to humanity. Even suppose these
three millions had work, and suppose all the
women in this and every other country who
are dependent upon their own exertions were
also supplied with work and the means to live,
how are the holy upwellings of woman’s wifely
and motherly nature to be met, by any
recognized means palatable to the world of
Christendom? We put the query in all sin-
cerity, as forming a part of a whole as known
as the “Woman Question;” and add, after
years of acquaintance with that system—
“Mormonism,”—to which Miss Faithful refers,
that there will be found more in her remark
regarding it, thus apparently dropped at ran-
dom, than society outside of Utah is to-day
willing to recognize.
	The subject is worth recurring to again.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAILY BATHING.
				  —
	With many intelligent women, among the
Latter-day Saints, the thought seems to pre-
vail that if the drinking of tea and coffee, and
the extravagant use of meats are dispensed
with, the Word of Wisdom is faithfully kept
in every particular.
	Yet, it is plainly apparent to all who will
take time to reflect upon the subject, that these
little matters, though it is very essential that
they be carefully observed, constitute but a
small portion of what may be justly considered
words of wisdom; living according to which,
cannot fail to produce longevity, health, and
consequent happiness and usefulness.
	Not the least or the last consideration which
should be entertained, pertains to timely, and
proper bathing. If mothers wish their children
to be healthy, active and intellectual, this duty
must not be neglected, either for themselves
or their little ones. It is often the case that
women feel they have not time to take the
morning bath, so necessary to produce for them
lively, energetic thoughts and feelings, and so
generative of clear judgment, upon which all
the systematic arrangements of the household
depend. But they will find it so great an ad-
vantage, if they but adopt the habit, that, very
soon it will be realized that time is gained
rather than lost by the operation.
	Another hindrance with many, is, that small
houses and large families are apt to afford no
suitable place for bathing; and although this
cannot always be avoided, It should not alto-
gether prohibit any woman, especially if she
be delicate in health, from bathing, or at least,
sponging the body every day. A screen may
be prepared in one corner of any room, for the
purpose; and compared with the benefits, to be
derived, the trouble will be nothing. From,
the effects of this treatment, very delicate
women have become comparatively robust and
healthy.


HOME AFFAIRS. 
				   —
	A Special Conference will convene in the
New Tabernacle, in this city, on Saturday 3rd
inst.
	ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in the present
number of the EXPONENT.
	THE NEXT issue of the EXPONENT closes its
first year. Need we again request an early
sending of clubs for the second volume?
[new column]
	A LADY who has been in attendance at the
Third District Court held in this city, for some
weeks past, pronounces it a “first-rate medical
school,”' A  medical case has been on trial.
	WE ARE requested to say that the name of
the President of the First Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork, is Catharine A. Wilkins, instead
of Williams as it appears in a report of our last
issue.
	A CONDUCTOR on one of the street cars in this
city made himself notable and notorious in the
estimation of some ladies, a short time since,
by severely kicking and cuffing an urchin
who, he said, was trying to steal a ride. The
ladies ask if a man should reprove a child for a
wrong action by himself committing one of
greater magnitude?
	PARENTS WHO are desirous of seeing their
children grow in wisdom, and grace as they ad-
vance in years, cannot be too particular now-a-
days in relation to the associations which they
keep, and the influences under which they are
liable to be placed; as has been repeatedly
evinced of late, by shameful proceedings which
have occurred in the streets of this city.
	IMPROVEMENTS IN various forms are being
rapidly carried on in different parts of this city,
which, from present indications, will soon be
extensively lighted by gas. Gardening and a
general trimming up of things out of doors, has
been going on for some time, and Salt Lake
City seems to be prepared, with the rest of the
world, to welcome once more the, fresh, sweet
face of May.
	NOTWITHSTANDING ALL the admonitions
given to teamsters to secure their horses before
leaving them standing in the streets, daily
papers are continually chronicling accidents
occasioned by teams being left carelessly, and
taking fright and running away; which,
though not generally of a serious nature, should
be sufficient warning to prevent so much heed-
lessness on the part of those having them in
charge.
	EVEN HERE, in our once quiet Utah, it
is difficult now-a-days to distinguish the
rogue from the gentleman. A lady of this
city rode in the cars to Ogden, a short
time since, opposite a respectable appearing
individual, not having the slightest suspicion
that he was other than he seemed. The next
day, however, while returning home, the same
man was seated directly in front of her, being
brought to the city in charge of an officer by
whom he had been arrested in Ogden, as a gov-
ernment defaulter from Idaho.
	LITTLE BOYS being urged into a fight, by
those who consider themselves men; and big
boys running over little ones with wheelbar-
rows, and rolling them into ditches, for the fun
of hearing them cry, and seeing them scramble
out; and other similar practices, are not such 
grand entertainments for persons who care
anything about morality or good behavior,
either in children or adults, as they seem to be
for some of the rude, ill-bred persons who now
constitute a portion of the community in dif-
ferent parts of the Territory.
	THE MANY terrible calamities occurring from
railroad accidents, occasioned frequently by
recklessness, of which, news comes from all parts
of the country, should make the people of Utah
appreciative of the careful and judicious man-
ner in which the management of the railroads
belonging to them is carried on by the gentle-
manly, polite and obliging Superintendents,
Agents and Condutors of these roads. Although
some few inconveniences are now to be met
with in going from this city to Logan in the cars,
even these are, comparatively, very slight, tak-
ing into consideration the short time the Utah
[new column]
Northern cars have been running. Any lady
who has a proper idea of taking care of herself,
may feel perfectly at home and at ease while
traveling by rail on either the Utah Southern,
Utah Central or Utah Northern railway.


THE SEX.
				—
	Mrs. Merriman Loyson, in addition to
her $75,000 and accomplishments, is a
painter and sculptor.
	Queen Isabella weighs about two hun-
dred pounds, and is the jolliest old ex-Queen
who ever saved her head.
	A Young Irish girl in Jacksonville, Ill.,
has refused $100 for her hair. It reaches
the floor when she stands erect.
	Mrs. Anna A. Pomeroy, former wife of
“Brick” Pomeroy, of La Crosse, has married
James H. Reed, of Fulton, Illinois.
	Miss Julia Seeley, daughter of the old
postmaster, has been nominated by the
President for postmaster, at Great Barring-
ton.
	The widow of the late Secretary Stanton
is residing at German town, near Philadel-
phia and is said to be in rapidly declining
health.
	Lady Otway, widow of the late colonel of
the Eighty-fourth British regiment, who
died recently, was a lineal descendant of
Edward III.
	A BRILLIANT belle may make a loving
wife, but you will be far more apt to find
the virtues of a perfect woman in retiring
modesty.
	Report of a Kentucky wedding—“The
bride wasn’t remarkably handsome, but her
father threw in seven mules, and the hus-
band was satisfied.”
	Many old women in New Hampshire
wear strings of beans around their necks
to keep off the rheumatism, and the charm
is said to work splendidly.
	Mary Warren, of Madison, Wisconsin,
has eight fingers on each hand. May the
Lord pity her husband when she has one,
when she begins to gridiron his face. 
	The ocean cable announces the death of
Countess Guiccioli, an Italian woman of
world-wide notoriety as the mistress of
Byron. She died at Rome.
	Miss Emily L. Wyman has returned from
her Art pilgrimage in Europe bringing,
among her treasures, exquisite copies of
several of Turner’s masterpieces executed
by herself.
	Mrs. Alice C. Clymor, the favorite niece
and principal, legatee of the Carey sisters;
died, recently at Jacksonville, Florida. She
was one of the last surviving members of
the family.
	A La Crosse, Wis., girl has been turned
out of house and home for rubbing her
cheeks against her sister’s husband’s beard
when she wished to get up a healthful glow
for a ball.
	A woman in destitute circumstances in
Indiana, cut off her hair, the other day,
and sold it to a charitable lady, who gave
her seventy-seven cents for it to buy food
for her children.
	The lady teachers of the Detroit public
school have issued an admirably written
address to the tax-payers of that city, ask-
ing for an increase of their salaries, which
are now shamefully inadequate. 
	The Art Schools of the National Acad-
emy admit pupils without regard to sex or
color, granting every student access to all
its advantages. The excellence of these
schools is of a very high order.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WORLD IS PROGRESSING.
					      ——
	This poem, which was written for, and appeared
in the twenty-first number of, the EXPONENT, April
1st, contained there several typographical errors,
which so completely changed the sense that we
deem it due to the talented author to republish it,	corrected.
The world is progressing! the sunlight of science
	With new luster sparkles to-day,
And keen, searching intellect wins an alliance
	With secrets long hidden away;
Bright genius unfolds new and great combinations
	Of power to bless and serve man;
While muses and graces forsake not their stations
	Adorning the structure so grand.

The world is progressing! O manhood arouse thee!
	Nor in the swift race be outrun;
The great wheels of progress will never turn back-
		ward,
	So roll them right bravely, each one—
In the proud halls of state, at the hearthstone so
	lowly,
	Let your voice for improvement be heard,
Strengthen virtue and honor, disdain things unholy
	And bid thought soar as free as a bird.

The world is progressing! O womanhood, waken
	And join in the jubilant strain!
The fetters which bound thee now surely are break-
	  ing.
	And never shall gall thee again.
No more in the dust shall thy meek head be trodden;
	No more shall injustice o’erwhelm;
Thou shall rise above ignorance, fashion and folly
	And reign as a queen in thy realm.

  The world is progressing! old fabrics of error
	Fall, moldr'ed and crumbling to earth;
While structures, far statelier, nobler and fairer,
	Rise pillared with power and worth.
Old Prejudice writhes 'neath the blows that are
	dealt her,
And for power, wild strugg'ling she keeps;
But her terrible sway shall forever be broken—
	Humanity no longer sleeps.

The world is progressing! yet all is not stainless,
	Grim evils yet flourish abroad—
False teaching, false swearing, and falsehearted states-
		men.
	Black intrigue, and the blackest of fraud.
But the world is progressing! thank God, we’re pro-
		gressing!
	The day of dull torpor is past;
Brave hearts and strong hands are their ardor ex-
	  pressing;	
	The millions are waking at last!
								LU DALTON.
   BEAVER.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	What to do in case of accident.—
Prof. Wilder of Cornell University, gives
the following short rules for acting in case
of accident, which it will be found useful to
preserve or remember:—If choked, get
upon all fours and cough.—If in water, float
on the back, with the nose projecting.—For
apoplexy, raise the head and body; for faint-
ing, lay the person flat.—If any artery is
cut, compress above the wound; if a vein is
cut, compress below.—For slight burns, dip
the part instantly in cold water; if the skin
is destroyed, cover with varnish.—Remove
wax from the ear by tepid water; never
put a hard instrument into the ear.—In
case of poisoning, excite vomiting by tick-
ling the throat or by warm water and
mustard.—For dust in the eyes, avoid rub-
bing; dash water into them; remove cinders,
etc., with the round point of a lead pencil.—
For acid poisons, give alkalis, for alkaline
poisons, give acids—white of egg is good in
most cases; in case of opium poisoning give
strong coffee and keep moving.—Smother
a fire with carpets, etc water will often
spread burning oil, and increase danger.
Before passing through smoke, take a full
breath and then stoop low; but if carbonic
acid gas is suspected, walk erect,—Suck
poisoned wounds, unless your mouth is sore;
enlarge the wound, or, better, cut out the
part without delay; hold the wounded part
as long as can be borne to a hot coal or end
of a cigar
	The Pomegranate.—It is perhaps not
generally known that this beautiful, rich
and wholesome fruit will keep well through
the winter. Let it be wrapped and packed
away in a box or laid among clothes in a
chest and it will keep sound until spring—
try it.
	Farmer’s Fruit Cake.—One cup of sour
dried apples, soaked over night and chop-
ped fine; simmer two hours in a cup of
sugar; one-third of a cup of butter; one-half
cup of sour milk; one teaspoonful soda; one
of cloves and nutmeg; two eggs; beat well
together; add the apples stirred up in a cup
of flour; add flour till quite stiff.
	Scent Powder.—A charming recipe for
scent powder, to be used for wardrobes,
boxes, etc., far finer than any mixture sold
at the shops, is the following:—Clove gilla,
sweet peas, mignonette, orris root, rose
leaves, and aromatic calamus each one
ounce, lavender-flowers, two ounces; rho-
dium wood, one-fourth of a dram. These
are to be mixed and reduced to a coarse
powder. This scent on clothes is as if all
fragrant flowers had been pressed in their
folds.
	Pudding.—One quart of milk. While
boiling stir in one pint of flour, after it is
sifted, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of white
sugar, one spoonful of butter, the grated
peel and juice of two lemons. All the in-
gredients must be well beaten together
before they are stirred into the milk. Stir
one way without stopping for a minute or
two, take it off and turn into your pudding
dish. It is to be eaten cold, with sugar and
cream if you like.
	Make Strawberry Wine.—Nothing can
be more delicious; nothing can be more
healthful. In all cases of dyspepsia, or of
slow, nervous fevers, or of impure blood, or
of ill-regulated bilious apparatus, it will be
found a great palliative, and a powerful aid
to other remedies of a more decided charac-
ter. Three quarts of strawberries make
one quart of juice. Add three quarts of
water and three pounds of the best sugar.
Use a clean, sweet cask, leave the bung
out for fermentation. When the fermenta-
tion subsides close the cask tightly and the
wine is ready for use. Tightly stopped it
will keep ten years, if necessary, but in my
experience it has always been found too
attractive to be kept quite so long a time.—
“Shakespearian Almanac.”
	Cold Water Drinking.—Cold baths of
the skin are good, but it is doubtful if flood-
ing the stomach on going to bed and on
rising is not, on the whole, the most profit-
able form of cold bathing. Costiveness,
piles and indigestion are uniformly relieved
by this morning and evening stomach
douche. The quantity must be determined
by each one for himself. Two or three
swallow's will generally do to begin with,
but the quantity will soon grow to a tum-
blerful, and I have known persons to use
much larger quantities with marked benefit.
If wisely managed, every dyspeptic will
be greatly improved by this cold stomach
bath.—Ex.
	A Cheap and Delicious Soup.—Save
the liquor in which the nice leg of mutton
was boiled to-day. It would be wicked
to throw it away, for a large fraction of the
succulence and nutriveness of the meat is
in it. Remove the fat to-morrow, and then
put it over the fire. Add onions if desired,
carrots and turnips, sliced thin, and some
lime beans, sweet corn and slised potatoes,
with bits of celery; add in either case rice
or barley, a tablespoonful of them dry, to a
quart of liquor is a good rule.  Do this and
at a trifling expense you may have a tureen
of soup fit to set before a King.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				Jerusalem, March 4, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	I wrote you last in Cairo, Egypt, from
whence we went to Suez, where we paid our
respects to the Red Sea of antique celebrity.
I walked up and down its low bank, admired
its beautiful, calm surface, as it lay in sweet
repose with wave unstirred; and reflected
deeply on the past of its interesting history.
	From Suez we went by rail back to Is-
maila, which we passed on our way from
Cairo to Suex. From Ismaila we went by
steamer on the great Suez Canal, one of the
modern “wonders of the world,” to Port
Said, a town built on artificial ground,
made of material taken from the bed of the
canal. On the evening of the 22nd of Febru-
ary, by the aid of boats we went on board
the Vesta, of the Austrian Lloyd line of
steamers, and early the next morning an-
chored off the coast of Jaffa, which we
reached in boats in safety, although this is
considered the most dangerous of seaports.
The Mediterranean washes the foundations
of the buildings.  We ascended a few steps
and entering a narrow, muddy street, were
met by a host of natives, clamoring for our
satchels in anticipation of a fee of “Back-
sheeh” for relieving us from carrying them.
Presently a smiling corpulent biped in tur-
ban and gown demanded our passports, at
the same time giving us a hint that he
would compromise his demand, for a fee; to
which our cashier readily assented, and
thereby also protected our baggage from
being overhauled at the Custom House.
	We walked directly to our encampment;
found our tents in readiness to receive us;
and were delighted with the many conve-
niences provided by Mr. Howard, agent of
Mr. Cook of London, under whose arrange-
ments we are traveling.
	Thus, under as clear a sunshine as had over
shone on Jaffa, and in as bright a morning
as ever dawned on the land of Palestine,
we commenced tent life, and, to render it
more impressive, it was Sunday morning.
	There is nothing attractive in the appear-
ance of the interior of this ancient town.
It is said to contain about five thousand
inhabitants. As we saw them in crowds
in the narrow, crooked streets, they are the
representatives of low life and degradation.
We walked a long, roundabout distance to
visit the “house of Simon the tanner,”
situated by the sea side, and were glad to
return to our tents in the suburbs, where we
breathed the pure fresh air. The surround-
ings of the city are pleasant and richly
decorated with groves of the lemon and
orange. With me, the reflection that we
really were in Palestine, the land rendered
dear to the Saints of God by some of the
most interesting associations of mortal life
—the history of the past in connection with
the anticipations of the future, which no
other people than Latter-day Saints can so
fully appreciate—was the all absorbing
thought.
	Early on Monday morning our camp
equipage, which consists of every thing
necessary for genteel boarding houses, was
packed and in monstrous bundles lashed to
the sides of donkeys, mules and horses; our
tents struck and packed; the laden animals
and their drivers started off; when we
mounted our horses and following our drag-
oman, went in the same direction leading to
Jerusalem.
	For a considerable distance after leaving
the city, the street on both sides, is lined
with the most luxuriant orange groves we
have seen, the limbs bending with the


weight of large clusters of the golden fruit,
and protected by hedges of cactus of an
enormous size.  We traveled till noon over
the beautiful plain of Sharon, and stopped
to lunch in the vicinity of Ramleh; where
the attendants who had our mid-day refresh-
ments in charge, consisting of light bread,
cold boiled mutton, chicken, a boiled egg
for each, an orange each, and bottles of
water, had preceded us, and opened our
lunch on mattresses provided for the purpose.
The majority of the attendants proceeded
ahead in time to pitch tents, put up for each
an iron bedstead, (which by the way is
rather a small pattern for President Smith,
but very comfortable for the rest) tables,
seats, etc., and get the camp stove and cook-
ing apparatus all into working order
preparatory to evening dinner served with
soups, meats, vegetables and pastries.
	The country through which our afternoon
ride led, is very uneven; some portions
rocky and barren.  We encamped for the
night on a lovely green, called the entrance
to the valley of Ajalon, conspicuous in the
history of Joshua.  Next day we rode
through the valley of Ajalon; up mountain
ridges, where we had delightful views of
the plains of Sharon and the Mediterranean
—the country is very picturesque, the road
zigzag, winding around and on the sides of
mountains—pass Kirjath Jearim, famous in
the history of David, lunch in the valley of
Elah and in the afternoon in view of the
Mount of Olives, which we leave at our left,
and arriving at the memorable city of the
ancient Jewish nation, the once favored of
the Most High, the site of the Jerusalem
from which the “Word of the Lord” shall yet
go forth, we found our tents in readiness
and entered them with hearts of thankful-
ness to God for His protecting care and
blessings in bringing us to this destination
in safety.
	But I must hasten to a close. The next
day, the 26th, we spent in and about Jerusa-
lem, visited the “Church of the Holy
Sepulchre;” had a fine view of the Garden
of Gethsemane; the next morning struck
tents, and spent three days in visiting the
Pools of Siloam, the Tomb of Ratchel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan river, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc.,—have not time for
description.  On the evening of the 1st of
March returned to this city, visited the
Mount of Olives and the Mosque of Omar.
To-morrow we leave for Syria.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MORAL TRAINING IN SCHOOLS.
		OPENING ADDRESS
By Superintendent R.L. Campbell, before the Utah
	Territorial Teachers’ Association, in the Deseret
	University, April 3, 1873.
	I take pleasure in congratulating the
Teachers and friends of education in Utah
on having the happy privilege of meeting
together, under such favorable auspices.
Can we contemplate a meeting the objects
of which are more important to the rising
generation? Shall good grow out of our
thus assembling? I answer, assuredly, if
we have met with single hearts, devoid of
every selfish or otherwise wrong feeling
and devoted to the cause we represent.
	Do we understand how much depends on
the course we pursue—upon how faithfully,
how wisely, how unitedly we act? If we
can answer affirmatively, and our actions
are in accordance therewith, success will
crown our efforts. Perhaps there is no asso-
ciation the meeting of which is more needed,
more timely or more important than this.
To be sure, we do not claim to be laboring at
the top of the tree, but amongst the roots.
[new column]
We are helping to lay the foundations of
society; and that our work be well done is
a primary matter.
	There is one object that has been impres-
sed on my mind lately, and to which I
respectfully call your attention, and that is
the subject of religious and moral training
in our schools. I would ask, can any system
of education be acceptable to this people,
that ignores religion or morality, or that
dwarfs these essential elements? Our
schools should be opened by prayer to God.
We were all born in lands favored with the
Bible, we have been taught from our infancy
that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning
of wisdom,” and shall our common schools
be the first to ignore this sentiment?
	To reverence the Supreme Being should
be one of the first lessons imparted by the
parent to the child. The precept of the
parent should be perpetuated and indorsed
by the teacher, that the educational founda-
tion may be laid aright. Man’s nature is
complex. That man has a religious nature
is illustrated by the fact that where the
true religion does not exist humanity will
be found bowing to idols. Man has an in-
tellectual, a physical and a moral nature.
	Are we not apt to narrow in our educa-
tional ideas, and to give undue weight to
intellectual culture? Cultivate the intellect
and neglect the heart and you may usher
into the world an intellectual monster. As
has been frequently observed, some of the
greatest scourges of our race have been men
of powerful and cultivated intellects. That
“knowledge is power” none will gainsay, and
that it is equally potent for evil as for good
all will readily admit. Where the intellectual
qualities have been cultivated but to enable a
mortal to inflict misery upon his fellows,
ignorance would Indeed have been bliss.
Any educational system that fails to give
due prominence to religious and moral
training is defective. Education has been
defined to proper training of the “whole
man.” If he were endowed with a physical
nature only, all he would need would be
physical training. On the other hand if he
were a purely intellectual being, Intellectual
culture would comprehend all that could be
included in a perfect education.
	It has been truthfully said that “the ex-
altation of talent, as it is called, above virtue
and religion, is the curse of the age.
Education is now chiefly a stimulus to learn-
ing, and thus men acquire power without
the principles which alone make it good.
Talent is worshiped; but if divorced from
rectitude, it will prove more of a demon
[-]han a god.”
	Education essays to elevate the child to
an honorable position in society, to assist in
making him a competent, intelligent and
virtuous citizen, a good patriot. If this be
the aim, it is palpable that too little stress
is often laid upon the moral and religious
training of our youth. It is patent to us all
that man is susceptible of fervent and per-
manent religious feelings. The child is in-
fluenced by hope and fear and early can be
made to judge of that which leads to do evil
and that which leads to do good. That he
has a conscience—a heart susceptible of
cultivation, is soon apparent. This leads us to
the conclusion that religious training should
be a part of his education. “Train up a
child in the way he should go and when he
is old he will not depart from it.” This is
the counsel of the Almighty. Can webet-
ter it?
	Dr. Humphrey has well said:—“A more
Utopian dream never visited the brain of a
sensible man than that which promises to
usher in a now golden age by the diffusion
and thoroughness of what is commonly
[new column]
understood by popular education. With all
its funds, and improved school-houses, and
able teachers, and grammars, and maps,
and black-boards, such an education is
essentially defective. Without moral prin-
ciple at bottom to guide and control its
energies, education is a sharp sword in the
hands of a practiced and reckless fencer. I
have no hesitation in saying, that if we
could have but one, moral and religious
culture is even more important than a
knowledge of letters; and that the former
can not be excluded from any system of
popular education without infinite hazard.
Happily, the two are so far from being
hostile powers in the common domain,
that they are natural allies, moving on
harmoniously in the same right line, and
mutually strengthening each other. The
more virtue you can infuse into the hearts
of your pupils, the better they will improve
their time, and the more rapid will be their
proficiency in their common studies. The
most successful teachers have found the
half hour devoted to moral and religious
instruction more profitable to the scholar
than any other half hour in the day, and
there are no teachers who govern their
schools with so much ease as this class.
Though punishment is sometimes necessary
where moral influence has done its utmost,
the conscience is, in all ordinary cases, an
infinitely better disciplinarian than the
rod. When you can get a scholar to obey
and to study because it is right, and from a
conviction of accountability to God, you
have gained a victory which is worth more
than all the penal statutes in the world, but
can never gain such a victory without lay-
ing great stress upon religious principle in
your daily instructions.”
		PEN AND SCISSORS. 
	A, flush of hope renders toil and trial
beautiful, as the sunbeams give a sparkle to
the winter’s frost.
	Sickly people, it is said, live longer
single than they would if married, and
healthy people live longer in pairs.
	Because a man does not see as you do is
not a proof that he is blind or near sighted;
and because he does not think with you on
all subjects Is no sign that he is a fool. The
eyes of the pigeon answer its purposes per-
fectly, but would not do for the hawk; and
why should a cow eat raw meat in prefer-
ence to corn or cabbage because a tiger
considers it a better diet?
	It is the wealthy and independent who
scoff at poverty; never the learned and wise
who mock at crude simplicity; never the
pure and good who evince no charity for
frail, erring humanity. And none but the
exceedingly ignorant are guilty of these
things.
	A Nautical School, presided over and con-
ducted by a lady, who has herself, within
the last ten years, educated in Navigation
and Astronomy, and fitted for active service
at sea, more than two thousand young men
—the most of whom were officers in the U.
S. Navy during the rebellion—is now in ac-
tive operation in the Rooms of the New York
Port Society, on the corner of Madison and
Catharine Streets, under the supervision of
Mrs. Capt. Brownlow—late Principal of the
N. Y. Nautical School, established by her
father, Capt. William Thomas, more than
twenty years ago.


﻿Six simultaneous applications for divorce
emanate from one family in Maysville,
Kentucky.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For	the Exponent.	
	“AND MURDERS INCREASE IN THE
				LAND.” 

	Almost every passing day brings to our ears
some fresh recital of blood and crime, which
fills us with sickening horror. Every year
adds hundreds to the list of Cains, accursed
of God and abhorred of men.
	No man can say he is safe from the ball
and steel of the assassin, and neither matron
nor maid can divine how soon she may fall a
victim to redhanded violence. Even the
infant in its cradle is not exempt from this
terrible doom.
	Our criminal cells are full of felons; the
sword of justice hurries hundreds uncalled
into eternity; and still the awful cry ascends
that earth is reeking with the blood of her
children, which blood cries out for redress.
	Whence comes this demon of ferocity and
disregard of the sacred rights of human
life? Why is the fair page in the history
of human life thus foully blotted? Who are
responsible for the fierce and sanguinary
impulses which prompt one frail mortal to
take the life of another?
	Oh, woman! Oh mothers! when you see
a darkbrowed, bloodstained criminal led
forth to answer the question addressed to
Cain—“Where is thy brother?” does relent-
less conscience accuse you of attempting
to take that man’s life before he saw the
light of day? Did you meditate release
from the restraint of his presence by raising
your hand against the life of the helpless
being whose only safeguard against your
cruelty, was the care of Him who forgets
not the least of His creatures?
	If so, then, mother, hide your face in
shame and wring your hands in despair; for
at your door, that responsibility lies. You
have deliberately given your child over to
perdition. You have steeped his soul in
crime and violence, and planted in him the
deadly seeds of rashness. Your dark and
criminal meditations, even if they never
assumed the magnitude of actual attempts,
have been impressed upon his plastic mind
and have given form to the motive powers
which govern his walk in life; and tears of
efface shed by you in after years, could not
blood, their blighting influence.
	When the man is born into the world,
you have no more power to shape his origi-
inal disposition; you may, indeed, with
much watchfulness and care, cultivate and
modify his character, but the leading traits
will ever remain to bless or curse the world
and himself.
	Oh, woman! though so frail in body
and seeming, how mighty! how lasting! is
your influence! Peeress, almost of God
Himself in shaping the destinies of this
world, through the dispositions you implant
in the children of men, think not your
sphere is narrow nor your influence unfelt.
	You may through prayer and watchful-
ness and strong determination, give your
child a soul and system unmarred by one
motive to crime, firm in integrity, upright
in every thought and deed, a blessing to his
kindred, his country and even the age which
gave him birth; or you may indulge in dark
thoughts and evil motives, fully assured
that, since from a child which is yet part of
yourself you can keep no secrets, every dark
design and crooked purpose will be mirrored
in thesensitive organization of the little
one, to bear bitter fruit in the years to come,
when your influence will be utterly unfelt,
or the grave separates you from him, leav-
ing him entirely at the mercy of his own
hateful passions.
	Then, mothers, pause and consider, for
one moment, the magnitude of the power
[new column]
and responsibility resting upon you. Re-
member, each one, you are arbitress of the
destiny of an immortal being; and try by
every means in your power to plant germs of
integrity and purity, instead of death and
destruction. Cultivate your own mind and
heart in the knowledge and admiration of
all things lovely and of good report, that
the blessing may descend to those you leave
behind you.
	Never even contemplate the possibility of
yielding your consent to a wrong, no matter
how small, if you would have your child
lead a blameless life; but above all things,
never, NEVER think of freeing yourself from
the incumbrance of an expected child; for
if you succeed your hands are stained with
innocent blood; and if you fail, your child
may grow up with dwarfed soul and
deformed principles, to be a source of an-
guish and despair to all who love him, and,
in a moment of madness, he may lift his
hand against the life of a fellow-creature;
thus adding one more horror to the blood-
curdling cry of “Murder!!”
							L. L. D.
Beaver, April 4th, 1873.


FACTS AND FIGURES.   
 			——
 CHICAGO now has a population of 380,000.
 FORTY-nine operas failed in Italy last
year.
 THE Shah of Persia is building a new ten-
acre palace.
 TWENTY-one editors have recently been
elected Mayors in Illinois.     
 BROADWAY, N. Y., is to be widened at a
cost of $3,800,000.
 SENATOR Pomroy owns 120,000 acres of
land. 	
 DES MOINES is to have a $50,000 opera
house. 	
 No fewer than 175 almanacs for 1874 have
been published in Paris.
 THE new United States Hotel at Saratoga,
will have a mile of piazzas.
 MICHIGAN has 148 legislators, not one of
whom was born in the State. 
 OHIO GIRL students play base ball, and
the newspapers talk of it. Well? 
 TEXAS is improving rapidly.   She has
944 convicts in her penitentiary now,
against 21 in 1862.
 SIX members of the German royal family
make up an aggregate stature of thirty-six
feet and two inches.
 LADY Burdett Coutts supports a sewing
school of two hundred pupils in Spitalfields,
and a night school in Shoreditch.


A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE  
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
and there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, “P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

TAYLOR & CUTLER EAST TEMPLE
Street, have a Splendid Line of LADIES' DRESS
GOODS, which will arrive about the First of April,
selected by Mr. Cutler in New York expressly for
this trade.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
		H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

Z. C. M. I.
    RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
  To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
 This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	   -	      -	        -         -	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav- 
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	 	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


Woman's Exponent.
