Vol. I. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 31, 1873.	 No. 17.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMAN papers are divided in their
allegiance to the dominant party of the
country.
	THE DEATHS of nine eminent editors were
chronicled last year; seven in the United
States and two in France.
	ANOTHER EMINENT man gone! Lord
Bulwer Lytton, poet, novelist and dramatist,
reposes in Westminster Abbey.
	HUNGARY SHOWS its respect to the name
of the Emperor Francis Joseph, by im-
prisoning James L. Watson, an American,
traveler, for speaking derogatory of him.
	AN ALAMEDA California, mother, it is
said, has named her infant Laura D. Fair.
Tastes differ. Would she like the little
one to earn as much unenviable notoriety as
the one it is named after?
	WHAT IS the price of a seat in the United
States Senate? and, do honorable Senators
expect to steal enough during their terms to
repay the outlay and interest upon it? are
questions pertinent to the hour.
	THERE IS one officer in the United States,
who has served in the same calling thirty-
two years, and has not been found guilty of
defalcation or forgery; it is Charles S. Clark,
veteran fireman of Boston, now aged sixty-
three years.
	NAPOLEON IS said to have died of a large
clot of blood in one of the blood vessels near
the heart, and the learned call it "embo-
lism.” It was sufficient to kill him, even if
the heavy word is derived direct from the
Greek “embolus.”
	MILAN IS subscribing money for the erec-
tion of a monument to the memory of the
Emperor Napoleon III. Italy gratefully
remembers the efforts of the late French
Emperor to solidify the country, if not to
secure Italian unity.	
	THE STATE Temperance Convention of
Connecticut adopted a straight temperance
platform, with a full ticket of State officers.
No subject calls more loudly for attention,
or more necessarily demands it at present,
than that of temperance, and its friends have
need to be stirring themselves.
	SEVENTY-FIVE thousand men and many
millions of dollars are said to have been
sacrificed by Spain during the last four
years, to surpress the insurrection in Cuba,
which looks as formidable now as at
almost any other time. So much for forcing
on a people an unpopular government.
	THE VOORHEES anti-Mormon bill, of the
last session of Congress, it is said, has been
resurrected with a slightly changed form,
and presented in the Senate by Senator
Logan. Its object is to vest in the hands of
three persons—a U. S. judge, a district at-
torney and a U. S. Marshal—all power in
Utah; when the game of plunder can begin.
	MRS. GREELEY, whose ambitions are
reported to have been more intense than
those of her husband, is said to have made
the assertion that if she possessed the health,
the youth and the advantages of her
daughters she would shake the world!
With such a mother and the inimitable
Horace for a father, what may not be ex-
pected of the daughters? 
	THE HEADS of the Orleanist and Legiti-
mist aspirants to the French crown are 
reported to have come to an understanding,
and Chambord, chief of the Legitimists, is
quibbling over the question of the royal
standard. This is not waiting for dead
men’s shoes, but quarreling over who shall
wear them, and what kind of a shoe-string
they shall be tied with, before possession of
them is obtained. Napoleon is dead, but
the Bourbons do not yet rule France.
	LOUISIANA HAS two governors, each claim-
ing to be the lawful one; and two legislatures
with similar claims, that have elected two 
men to the United States Senate to fill the
seat of one. A great curse of the world 
is being over much governed, and Louisiana
seems to be in a fair way to have more than
her share of it; for there is danger, that in
addition to her double-headed monster at
home, federal authority may step in and set
both aside, or recognize one to the rejection
of the other, regardless of the will of the
majority of the citizens.
	ANOTHER MONARCH is about setting out
on his travels. The Shah of Persia pro-
poses to leave Teheran, the capital of Persia,
in April, with the intention of visiting
Constantinople, St. Petersburg, Berlin,
Vienna, London and Paris. He might add 
to the interest and attractiveness of his
journey by lecturing on what he knows
about famines, and telling how many of the
two millions of his subjects who died of
starvation might have been saved by the
use of the money which his European tour
will cost.
	IT IS reported that the Pope says the
bodies of the Apostles Philip and James
were discovered on Wednesday, January
5th, last, in the Church of the Apostles at
Rome. Were they embalmed? And if so
how did the poor followers of the despised
Savior secure such expensive treatment for
their bodies eighteen centuries ago? And
if they were not embalmed, how were they
preserved? Miraculously? And how were
they identified when found? It sounds
like a nice little religious romance, or what
in olden times used to be called “a pious
fraud;” which even Popes were supposed to
occasionally participate in.
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE is winning its way,
notwithstanding the ridicule with which it
is met, and which has to do duty for argu-
ment. A few days ago, on a debate in
Congress on the admission of Colorada as a
State, Mr. Sargent, of California, offered an
amendment that in the admission of new
States the right of suffrage should not be
abridged because of sex. Nothing may
come of this during the present Congress,
which expires on the 4th of next March;
but when the Forty-third Congress meets
there is good reason to believe that the
question of woman suffrage will receive
more attention than it has yet done. The
Republican party has given a semi-pledge
in favor of it, and Republicans in the next
Congress will be strong enough to carry any
measure they may choose. It is probable,
therefore, that during the present year this
question will advance so far that its agita-
tion will be not only more popular, but may
reach a successful consumation.
	FOR SOME weeks past the country has
been ringing with what is called the "Credit
Mobilier Scandal." Prominent members 
of Congress have been charged with having
received stock of the Credit Mobilier 
and the Union Pacific railroad to induce
them to vote for certain measures which
were expected to benefit the companies
named. Emphatic denials have been given
in public addresses, and have been sworn to
before the Congressional Committies inves-
tigating the affair; and yet the charges have
been just as emphatically sworn to, with the
details given in a manner that looks very
like convincing truth. But whether the
charges be true or false, one thing is plain;
members of Congress and prominent poli-
titions, on some side, are guilty of the
grossest perjury as they distinctly contradict
each other on oath, and that where there is
scarcely room to doubt that they know
exactly whether they are swearing truly or
falsely. This is a painful showing for the
legislators of a great country like this, and
is a strong argument in favor of the proposi-
tion that a few truthful, honorable women
in Congress wouldn't hurt but would help it.


﻿SCIENCE AND RELIGION.
			  —
	Truth is science, and science in its legiti-
mate form embraces all truth; and as “true
science and true religion walk hand in
hand,” nothing that is unscientific can be-
long to true religion, nor can anything that
is irreligious be classed with true science.
There are people whose ideas of religion 
lead them to pray a very great deal, and do
but little else, for fear of doing wrong, and
who dare not read other than spiritual
works; while many scientists, who demon-
strate great truths, being “unbelievers,”
take all the glory to themselves instead of
rendering it to God, the great Originator of
all intelligence. It may be unnecessary to
state here the obvious fact that these two
extremes are both wrong. In whatever form
the principle of divine truth is illustrated it
is sacred, and also scientifiic, and is an
established, fundamenal rule or portion of a
rule pertaining to the one true religion—the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	There are simple yet essential truths 
which appertain to daily, domestic life, as
lofty in their natures and more necessary to
be understood, than those of a grander and
more imposing character, which often startle
the world with their singular yet manifestly 
natural delineations. There are scientific 
and beautiful truths in the “Cookery Book” 
as well as in the Bible; and they all belong
to the true religion. It is quite as impor-
tant for present welfare and happiness to be 
considered, wherever it may be done in 
honor and wisdom, as that future blessed-
ness be sought for, regardless of the priva-
tions and inconveniences which may be
unnecessarily borne to-day, in consequence
of a lack of genuine faith and knowledge. 
Salvation is as good to-day as it will be in
days to come, if correctly viewed; and there
is no part of true science or true religion in
looking ever for future blessedness and
passing recklessly by those which should be
appreciated and enjoyed to-day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
					LONDON.	
					     ——
	Written while President G. A. Smith and party, consisting 
of L. Snow his sister E.R. Snow, F. Little, his daughter Clara, 
P. A. Sc ettler, G Dunford and T. Jennings were in London
“en route” for Palestine, 
			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
				 —
	Far. far away from our dear native land,
	In England’s great Metropolis we stand;
	Where art a' d skill—labor and wealth combine
	With time’s co-operation in design
	Of superstructure’s bold and beauteous form,
	With all varieties of strength and charm.

	Here massive columns—stately towers, arise.
	And lift their spires in greetings to the skies; 
	Fine parks and gardens, palaces and halls.
	With scu ptured [niches,—frescue-painted walls; 
	Where no expense is spared to beautify,
	Nor time, nor toil, to captivate the eye,
	We saw, and viewing, continuously admired 
	The master strokes by Genius’ hand inspired.

	To “New Westminster Palace” we resort,
	Where the Chief Justice holds his august court;
	Twas then in session, and the Exchequer too—
	In wig and gown—a grand, imposing view!
	The House of Lords and Commons, too we saw,
	But not those grave expounders of the law.

	With deferential thought we fixed our gaze,
	There, in “The Prince’s Hall.” where face to face,
	On either side, on caved projections stood,
	With features varied as in life’s warm blood,
	White marble statues, from the sculptor’s hand,
	Of British Statesmen, men who could command
	The power of eloquence—the force of mind,
	A mighty nation’s destinies to bind—
	Chatham, Pitt, Granville. Walpole, Fox, beside
	Others who’re justly England's boast and pride.

	We visited the "Abbey" where repose in state,
	The effigies of many good and great,
	With some whose d eds are well deserving hate.
	Group’d in “ The Poet’s Corner,” here, we found,
	With rich, artistic sculpture trophies crown’d,
	The mem’ries of the muse’s world renown’d.

	In some compartments where old, massive stones
	Comprize the flooring, lie their mouldering bones,
	And we with reverential footsteps tread
	Above the ashes of the illustrious dead.

	  Great London City, mart of wealth and power,
	home for the wealthy—charnel for the poor!
	And here amid its boasted pomp and pride,
	Some faithful Soldiers of the Cross reside—
	A few choice spirits whom the watchman’s care,
	By humble search, found scatter’d here and there,
	“Like angels visit, few and far between,”
	As patient gardeners sep’rate clusters glean,
	  They barter earth’s allurements and device
	To gain the Pearl  of great and matchless price,
	And what to them the honors, pride and show
	That perish with their using, here below?
 	Their hopes are high—their noble aims extend
	Where life and peace and progress never end; 
	Where God’s own Kingdom, Time’s last-knell
		survives,
	Crowned with the gifts and powers of endless lives


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

			Harrisville, Weber Co.,
					January 5th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We forward a brief report of our Society,
which is in a prosperous condition. We
have a good organization, and good attend-
ance at our meetings. On account of our
scattered condition we only meet once
a month during the winter season; but the
sisters of the Society are willing to do all
the good they can. At a meeting in Decem-
ber last, a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society,
which was unanimous. With our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
paper which we peruse with pleasure and
from which we gain a great amount of in-
struction, and with much respect, we remain
yours, etc.,
	MRS. E. SHIRTLIFF, President,
MRS. E. TAYLOR, Secretary.

	Wellsville, Cache Co.,
		January.	7th,	1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief synopsis to you of the
[new column]
minutes of our last meeting, held on the 2d
inst, at which a vote was taken to omit the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society as suggested, which was unanimous.
Several brethren were present and gave us
good counsel; a good spirit prevailed. We
hold meeting regularly once a month, which
is pretty well attended. Our Society is
prosperous, all being desirous to assist in
doing good. Accept our best wishes for the
success of the “EXPONENT,” which we read
with great pleasure.
		MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary.

			     HYRUM, Cache Co.,
					January, 13, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Relief Society held
on Thursday November 6th, 1872, a motion
to have the word “Female” dropped from
the name, according to Sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carried by a unani-
mous vote.
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	          KAYSVILLE, Jan. 20th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At a meeting of the Female Relief Society,
held in this place on the 9th of December
last, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was carried unanimously.
	The Society in this place numbers about
150, through whose labors much good has
been accomplished. The poor have been
looked after and their wants in a measure
supplied. Fifty dollars have been given to
the P. E. Fund, and one hundred dollars for
other laudable purposes. We have two
hundred and twenty-five dollars in the Kays-
ville Co-operative store, and at present,
over one hundred dollars in the Treasury.
We are now making an effort to build a
house for the use of the Society. The cellar
and foundation walls are already completed.
Most of the material for the building is on
hand and paid for, and we expect to see
the walls go up early in the spring.
	Your valuable paper is much esteemed by
those who patronize it here.
			MARY A. HYDE, President.
HELLEN E. HYDE, Secretary.

	14 WARD ASSEMBLY ROOMS,
			          Salt Lake City.
	General Retrenchment Meeting, held
January 18th, 1873, presided over by Mrs.
Mary I Horne.
	After singing, and prayer by Counselor
Mrs. Zina D. Young, the minutes of the
preceding meeting were read by assistant
Secretary, Miss Maggie Mair, and approved.
The minutes of meetings of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Associations, of the
9th and 11th wards, were also read. Presi-
dent Mrs. Horne spoke a short time. She
felt well in spirits, but on account of a bad
cold, contracted the evening before, was not
able to speak long; thought the sisters
should strive to be awake to their duties,
and be energetic in performing the same;
they should not trust to the Lord to do for
them what He had endowed them with
faculties to do for themselves.
	Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke con-
cerning sympathy, true and false: When
she was in the midst of afflictions, she did
not want her friends to tell her how sorry
they felt for her, or to utter words of a nature
calculated to draw forth the emotions of
grief which she was striving to overcome;
she considered such, mistaken sympathy,
and preferred, when she paw a friend weighed,
down with sorrow, to offer something that
might serve to strengthen and build up
[new column]
faith and trust, rather than to incite and
prolong suffering, by speaking words, meant
for consolation, but only wringing more
effectually the heart already tried.
	Counselor Mrs. Elizabgth Howard read
the letter from Sister E. R. Snow, which
appears in this number of the Exponent,
addressed to President Mrs. Horne and her-
self. After which, remarks were made by
several members of the Association, and
meeting adjourned for two weeks, “Faith”
being chosen for the subject to be treated
upon at the next meeting.

				SUGAR HOUSE WARD,
				       	January 15th, 1873
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our monthly meeting, held in the
School House, November 3rd, 1872, Mrs.
Sarah Gibson presiding, a unanimous vote
was taken to omit the word “Female” from
the name of the Society as suggested by
Sister E. R. Snow.
	Our Ward is widely scattered, nevertheless
we do the best we can with our surroundings,
administering to and blessing the poor.
There are always a few good, faithful sisters
on hand who are ready and willing to do all
that is required of them. Our President,
Mrs. S. Gibson, gives us good and valuable
instructions. May she long live to fill the
position she now occupies
	I have been a member of this Church for
18 years, and I still desire to do right and be
faithful to the end.
	With kind wishes for the success of your
paper, I am yours affectionately,
			SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.

			RICHMOND, Jan. 12th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our regular monthly meeting, held the
first Thursday in November, we unanimously
agreed to drop the word “Female” from the
name of the Society, according to Sister
Eliza R. Snow’s suggestion. This report
has been sent before, but as it has not
appeared in the Exponent, I suppose it has
not reached you, and I accordingly send
another.
	As a society we are doing our best to bless
those in trouble, sickness and poverty; of
the latter class, thank God, but few have
need of our assistance.
	Your excellent paper is a most welcome
visitor in my home, and it is highly appre-
ciated—as it seems—by many of our sisters.
God bless and prosper you in your noble un-
dertaking.
		SARAH A. MERRILL, President..
			OGDEN, Jan. 20th, 1873.

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Since my last account of our Society’s
doings, we have passed its third Anniver-
sary; on which occasion the report showed
the amount received since January 1st, 1872,
$636:24, and the amount disbursed,$599:15.
Our Treasurer, Sister R. Canfield, finding
her duties too laborious in the Institution,
desired to be released, and tendered her
resignation; whereupon Sister H. M. Ballan-
tyne was elected to that office. Sister Josie
Richards was also chosen assistant Secretary.
	On the 19th of December the Society held
its first meeting in the New City Hall. It
was a time of unusual interest to all who
were present. Elders Richards, Herrick,
Farr, Penrose and Ballantyne met with us
and each addressed the meeting, giving
much excellent instruction and encourage-
ment, a report of which you have, no doubt,
read in the columns of the “Junction.” On
the evening of the same day the Society had


a party which, as far as I have heard, all
agree was one of the best in Ogden this
winter. Our meetings are held regularly
on each alternate Thursday afternoon, in
the New City Hall. President Richards,
Bishop Herrick and the brethren generally
seem to take pleasure in advising and assist-
ing us to get along so as to make our labors
pleasant to us as well as beneficial to our-
selves and others. We think there is a
gradually increasing interest in the affairs,
of the Society in this place, and we hope to
continue to have that feeling and influence
until all the worthy of our sex are happily
engaged with us.
				Amelia M. Frodsham.

	From a report of a meeting held by the
Society of the 1st Ward of this city, on
November 7th, last, which is now too old to
be published at length, we learn that a vote
was taken by those present to drop the word
“Female” from the name of the Society.
Mrs. M. Chase is president, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Thayne secretary. The Society is in a
healthy condition.	

	Sister Hannah Carter, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Springville, forwards a
cheering report of that Society, which has
also taken the necessary vote to dispense
with the word “Female” in connection with
the name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	
	A Poor, patient man, of my personal
acquaintance, is a bachelor, wandering from
place to place, without one gentle, loving
word of sympathy ever being uttered for
him by cherished lips; without a hand to
clasp as dearer than any other in the world
to him, or a trusting heart to beat in unison
with his own. I am also acquainted with a
lady who is moving rapidly on towards
thirty; pale and rather pensive, who stands
behind a counter instead of taking charge of
a household, as she should do at her present
age, leaving the shop for some one younger
or older to mind. And all this because she
did not understand cooking. She would not
learn to cook, and the gentleman, now a
bachelor, would not "pop the question." To
this some of our "strong minded women,"
would say, "Serves him right, silly 'brute'—
let him learn to do his own cooking!" But I
believe in "woman's rights." And did not 
our dear, old great-grandmother, Eve, set
us a worthy example in looking after what
she and Adam were to eat? And did not
Adam partake of what she had prepared for
him, without interfering with her domestic
arrangements? thus proving that a woman
naturally understands better what is good
for herself and her household than a man
does. Gentlemen wish, when they marry,
to get wives who know enough to manage
the affairs of the kitchen without their over-
sight and opinion about everything. Only
intermeddlers think they know enough for
themselves and the rest of the family too,
and so trusting, marry indolent, ignorant
girls, who are only fit for parlor ornaments,
and never know or care to know whether
the food they eat is calculated to promote or
injure health. Now, if you want to marry a
gentleman, young lady, be wise and make
yourself worthy of being a gentleman's wife
—learn to cook.

						Aunt Trudie.
	Making Bread.—Milk is always prefer-
able to water for mixing. Accurately
measure or weigh everything used in mak-
ing bread. Experience has shown that
baking pans should be about seven inches
long, four inches deep, and four inches wide
on the bottom, flaring and fitted with covers.
This fact is worthy of attention. Every
cook should consult the taste in the use of
salt. A quart of sifted flour, loosely put in,
will weigh a pound.
	When Storing away dried fruit, put in
small twigs and leaves of the China tree.
A large quantity is not required, and the
leaves, etc., can easily be taken out when
the fruit is to be used. This is said to be a
certain preventative against worms in all
kinds of dried fruit. 
	A Cement said to stop cracks in glass
vessels to resist moisture and heat:    Disolve
caseine in cold saturated solution of borax
and with this solution paste strips of hog's 
or bullock's bladder (softened in water) on
the glass and dry at a gentle heat; if the 
vessel is to be heated, coat the bladder on
the outside before it has become quite dry, 
with a paste of a rather concentrated solu-
tion of silicate of soda and quick lime or 
plaster of Paris. 
	Plain Apple Pie.- For the crust boil
white, mealy potatoes, mash smooth with
milk as for the table, and let it cool. Knead 
in graham or unbolted flour to mix well, and
roll out.    Put in a good quantity of apples
prepared as for sauce.    Put, in place of an
upper crust, bars of crust across. 
	Cooking Raisins.-It is well to cook
raisins before putting them into pies, cakes
or puddings. Soaking them is not sufficient.
Steaming them, by pouring a small quantity
of boiling water amongst them in a tightly 
closed dish, and allowing them plenty of 
time to cook before opening, is a good plan.
When rasins are rightly cooked before using
they are plumper and more palatable, and
can be eaten without injury by most dyspep-
tics.


﻿[For theExponent.
		EXERCISE FOR GIRLS. 
			     ——
	Since the body is not only the “temple of
the soul,” but also its servant and friend,
the means by which it is able to make im-
pressions on tangible things, it has claims to
care and culture, education and development,
only secondary, to those of the soul itself.
If it be true that a cramped body can only
give imperfect impressions to the desires
and capabilities of the soul, how manifestly
important that no pains should be spared to
unfold every latent power, and train to the
utmost extent of useful action, every bone,
muscle, organ and nerve which the body
contains!
	This article is written especially in the in-
terest of girls, for custom has long demanded
for boys vigorous and healthy exercise,
which is the legitimate means of giving
harmonious vigor to the body. But custom
has also forbidden for girls such exercise,
because forsooth, it is ungenteel to wrestle,
run and row; and scarcely dare the slaves of
sex and fashion indulge in equestrian exer-
cise; certainly not without various trappings
and restrictions which fetter free movement.
It is time that more common-sense views
were entertained on this subject, expecially
by the people of Utah, whose aim is the
renewal of the primeval strength and
longevity of the human race. There can be
no valid reason why we may not break
through the trammels of foolish and ground-
less customs, such, for instance, as the deep
prejudice against whistling. If it is proper
for a boy to whistle, why be shocked so 
deeply when under similar circumstances a
girl indulges in the harmless pastime! Not
that to be debarred from whistling would be
a great privation, but little things exemplify
[new column]
great ones; as the Bostonians argued respect-
ing three cents a pound on tea.
	It is not enough that one sex be trained to
bodily strength and symmetry; that is doing
the work by halves. Let the girls also have
due attention on this point. And do not 
let all their exerciese be drudgery, either.
Washing, sweeping and churning are all
very well in their place; but if "all work and
no play make Jack a dull boy," I contend
that it will also make Jill a dull girl. She
should learn to skate, to swim, to play ball,
and—yes, to shoot! Self protection demands
this last in these wild, western countries,
and to my mind it would be far more pleas-
ing to see our girl going out on shooting ex-
cursions with her brothers and sturdily
bearing home at night the game she has
captured, than laced up in corsets, with 
smelling bottle at nose, giving little plain-
tive screams if she should spy a mouse, or a 
frog, or any of God's harmless creatures
which should awaken admiration for His
boundless wisdom, instead of fear or even
disgust. It is high time that such nervous
timidity, not to say such affectation, should 
pass into disfavor. And the very best way
to accomplish this desirable end, would be 
to give the girl such confidence in her phy-
sical prowess that she would feel herself
equal to any small contingencies.
	It would be a pleasant sight to see com-
modious play-grounds attached to every
schoolroom in the land; where both boys 
and girls should be encouraged tp engage on
active games suitable to their age and 
strength. And more; well ordered and well
conducted calistheniums should be estab-
lished where girls might hoard strength of
nerve and spine, which shall enable them to
defy the ailments which to-day afflict
their mothers and almost make their lives a
burden. Like all good things, exercise
must be used with due moderation; but so
long as it does not pass that boundary, it is 
the great tonic which will give lithe limbs,
bright eyes, and straight spines to the next
generation. No better physicians can be
found than pure air, regular habtis, cheer-
fulness and —judicious exercise. Give these
to the girls as well as the boys, and see how
soon feeble, incapable, wornlooking mothers
will be replaced by rosy, smiling matrons,
whose well-ordered households and beauti-
ful, sweet-tempered children, bear witness 
to their great capabilities.
							L.L.D.


A LETTER FROM ELIZA COOK.—The
“Western Mail” states that a gentleman
residing in South Wales, having written to
Miss Eliza Cook expressing the sympathy 
felt by him and other local bards for the
poetess, in respect of the rumors circulated
as to her death, has received the following
acknowledgement:—“Beech-house, Thorn-
ton-hill, Wimbledon, S. W., near London,
Nov. 30, 1872.—I am too worried to write
much, my dear friend, for such I feel you to
be—but I must acknowledge your kind and
manly letter. The ‘people’ are, indeed, most
sympathizing with me, and their generous
support goes far to soften the bitterness of
the cruel and unfounded reports lately
issued about me. You may be glad to learn
that I have lived during the last ten years
with a nephew and his family; occasionally
visiting my brother. The last three years
we have resided here, and a most happy
home I have, where I hope to really die,
when it pleases the Great Father to call me
to my eternal rest. I am a sufferer, but my
brain has never lost its perfect power, and I
hope it never will.—With warm thanks to
yourself and your circle, I am, my dear Sir,
yours truly ever,—ELIZA COOK.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 31, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

    Laura D. Fair is reported to be before the
San Francisco court again, bringing suit this
time......English papers congratulate New
York on the final condemnation of Stokes......
King Victor Emanual has had a severe
attack of rheumatic fever......Nilsson will
return to America this year......The Grand
Duke Alexis will take a turn in Siberia........
New York has one hundred lady physicians.
......Lafayette, Indiana, has the spotted
fever and eighty-two licensed saloons......
Foreign Ministers at Hong Kong, report
says, are no longer required to kneel and
bow their heads to the floor on entering the
presence of his “Celestial” Highness......Con-
cord, New Hampshire, and Springfield, Illi-
nois, had destructive fires at the same time,
recently......Kentucky has filled two asy-
lums and wants another......Western people
have had but little sleighing, though there
has been considerable slaying carried on
so far this season......A new system of send-
ing telegrams in opposite directions on the
same wire simultaneously, is in use on the
Western Union lines......Vallejo, California,
claims possession of the embalmed body of
an emperor who ruled China three thousand
years ago......A lady’s hat with all its trim-
mings and a band box was lately sent from
California to Maine, for eleven cents postage.
......Turin, Italy, has produced a thirty-three
ton cannon......Yale college students have
spent over $10,000 within the last two
months for pictures of themselves......A
hymenial paper, called the “Matrimonial
News” was started in Chicago on the first of
January......The “Bethel Fair,” lately held
in Cincinnati, for charitable purposes, realized
$21,405:99......There is likely to be an enor-
mous emigration to this country early in
the spring......Ex-Senator Ross has com-
menced the publication of a small evening
paper in Lawrence, Kansas......Iowa sold
226,680 acres of swamp land last year.......
Prince Charles of Prussia, has been ap-
pointed to the honorary command of a
brigade of Russian artillery, by the Czar.......
Street railways are under way in Calcutta
......Ic-icles, forty feet long, indicate the
weather in Hartford, Connecticut.......Two
lashes a pound is the rate paid by dusky
Georgians for stolen turkeys......Sixty-three
Georgia gin-houses have been burned up
within the last four months......During a
recent hurricane, waves forty feet high
dashed over the quays at Naples......The
number of Italians rendered homeless by
the late floods will exceed 80,000......The
gold mines of Peru are more comepletely
exhausted than those of California......The
chances are that 1816, the coldest year ever
known in the Eastern States, will yet find
its match in 1873......According to accounts,
New York had, on an average last year, two
fatal accidents a day and three suicides and
one murder weekly......A man accused of
bigamy declared he could see no fault in
having an appetite for spare ribs......A dissi-
pated youth in Virginia was shot by Mrs.
Price while in the act of eloping with her
daughter......Two old misers in Jacksonville,
Illinois, froze to death, lately, with an
abundance of fuel in the house......Failures
of large houses tn London are rappidly suc-
ceeding each other; that of Anselmo,
Vivante & Co., merchants, failed lately,
liabilities $3,500,000......Newburyport has a
school-house which is said to be haunted by
the ghost of a beautiful little boy, with pale
face, mild blue eyes and flaxen hair......The
Empress Eugenie will issue a proclamation
to the people of France, that she assumes
the regency during the minority of her son
......During the year of 1871, New York had
26,976 deaths and in 1872, 32,647 deaths......
It is urged that the present prices paid for
telegraphing are too high, and that if the
lines were under control of the Govern-
ment the rates would be lowered......Mark
Twain’s “New Cock Robin,” published in
the Hartford “Evening Post,” furnishes
five editors for the New York “Tribune”
—himself included—and all these failing,
offers George Francis Train as a positive
success......The oldest governor in the
United States is General Dix......The Patri-
arch of Jerusalem, recently died in that
city......Miss Susan M. Johnson lectures in
St. Louis on the Gospel of Spiritualism......
White furs are used in Paris for trimming
evening dresses......Spurgeon, whose life
was lately despaired of, has entirely re-
gained his health......Fred Douglas is going
to Europe......A gentleman remarks that the
richest thing he has seen during the season
of mud, was a purple silk velvet morn ing
dress which swept the streets, worn by the
wife of a man who works for his daily wages.


SUFFRAGE IN THE TERRITORIES.
	By the acts of Congress creating the several
Territorial governments, which are in reality
the Constitutions provided for those Terri-
tories, the several legislatures can exercise
their law-making powers “upon all rightful
subjects of legislation.” This clearly gives
them the authority to regulate the question of
suffrage within their respective limits, and to
prescribe the qualifications of voters. They
have the right to say that it is not necessary
for an American citizen to be a male to possess
the requisite quaifications, and that a woman
has an equal right with a man to cast a ballot
for any elective officer. And it is a question
with the best jurists of the country whether
Congress has the power to take away any of
those Territorial Constitutions, by repealing
the acts, after having once granted them, unless
to admit the Territory as a Sovereign State.
Certainly Congress cannot, by any legitimate,
exercise of its power, prohibit the exercise of
the authority conferred in an Organic act upon,
a Territorial legislature, without repealing that
Organic act.	
	Two Territories have granted the right of
suffrage to women—Wyoming and Utah. The
legislature of the latter Territory at its last
session, passed a bill repealing the woman
suffrage act, but Governor Campbell vetoed it,
and women continue to enjoy the right of suf-
frage there. No proposition has yet been made
in the Utah legislature to repeal the woman
suffrage act of this Territory, but a proposition
has been made several times, by the anti-Mor-
mon press and speakers, to ask Congress to pass
an act prohibiting woman suffrage in Utah;
and this, simply because the “Mormon’ 
women have voted as their intelligence, pro-
clivities, or desires dictated. This is a novel
illustratipn of the “liberalism” so loudly,
vaunted by anti-Mormon speakers; that be-
cause a majority of the ladies of this Territory,
wlio are American citizens, will not vote as
[new column]
they desire, therefore those ladies should be
deprived of the right to vote! On the same
theory, the Republicans in States where they
are in a minority, should call upon Congress to
pass an act disfranchising Democrats and all
others that refused to vote the Republican
ticket; and Democrats in such States as Maine,
Vermont, Massachusetts and Iowa should de-
mand that their more numerous opponents of
the Republican faith should be deprived of the
right of suffrage for refusing to vote for the
Democratic candidates.
	The statement that the women of Utah—and
particularly the "Mormon"—women—are co-
erced, terrorized or in any manner compelled to
vote contrary to their inclination or conviction,
is a gross calumny; and as a woman speaking
for the women of the Territory, we so denounce
it. Possibly there may be here and there a
poor, spiritless creature, like the Michigan hus-
band whose wife said when a candidate came
around to canvas his vote; "No, sir! I wouldn't
let my husband vote for you on any consider-
ation! You clear out of here, and if he votes
for anybody wiihout my permission, let him
look out; that's all!" We say possibly there
may be found in Utah, as in every community,
one or two such creatures; but the ladies of
Utah, as a class, exercise the suffrage on their
own honest convictions, vote for the candidates
whom they favor, and do so intelligently, with
as sound reasons for their action, and with as
high an appreciation of the ballot, as can be
shown by the male voters of any part of this
Republic.


A STEP TOWARDS REFORM.

	Men may say that women have less charity 
for the “fallen” of their own sex, than for the
corrupt and licentious among men. Admitting 
this to be too true, as evinced in practice if
not in sentiment, are not men the graver trans-
gressors even here? More than one gentleman
has, in our presence, lately drawn attention to
the shameful fact that the meanest libertines
among men, so they have wealth, have also in-
fluence, and are not only admitted to the best
circles in society, but are looked up to, fawned
upon and their company sought for by ladies,
as well as gentlemen, of the best society.
While a woman who has fled the paths of
virtue, no matter what the fatal cause may
have been or how pure-minded and innocent
she was known to be before she “fell,” has lost
her reputation, is shunned and looked down
upon by ladies in position, in many instances
the very ones who smile upon and flatter and
admire those who compassed her ruin. But
who first bring these popular scoundrels into
the presence of ladies in good society? Is it not
often the husband, father or brother who intro-
duces such a creature of humanity to the family
circle, and as a friend of such, are not the
members of the family bound to receive him
with courtesy? If the father invites him to
dinner should not the daughter accept his in-
vitation to attend the lecture? And if the
brother considers him a worthy companion to
walk and ride with, could the sister, in common
civility refuse to dance with him? Yet men in
good standing in society who have any regard
for their name, would not be seen in company
with a “fallen” woman, or allow their wives or
daughters to associate with her.
	A good story comes to us through private
sources, from one of the Eastern cities, in
reference to the injustice and inconsistency of
men on these points; which we give, as it
reaches us, while with-holding names:	
	A well-to-do gentleman, half merchant and
half farmer, with a family of five, including


himself, his wife, a clever lady of Irish descent,
while he is, himself an American, a son of
fine intellect and good education and two bril-
liant and witty daughters who are all grown to
maturity, gave a ball and supper on Christmas
evening. In the afternoon, before the guets
began to arrive, the younger gentleman of the
house came in with an intimate friend of his
with whom his sisters had met before, and of
whom they had heard “hard” stories. The
brother informed his mother and sisters that
said "friend” would be one of their guests that
evening. Of course they were “pleased”—
etiquette would not admit of their being other-
wise. As soon as the gentlemen left, a private
consultation of a serious nature took place
among the ladies, which ended in the elder Miss
—putting on cloak and hood and taking a walk
down around the corner. When she returned,
after some little delay, she was not alone. She
and a companion were met at the side gate by
her sister—father and brother were in the front
parlor. The two sisters and their guest, for
such was the third person, proceeded through
the back kitchen up stairs. The guests were
beginning to arrive. In half an hour the young
ladies were ready to join their mother in the
reception room. Choosing a moment when her
son was beside her, the two sisters approached
their mother, leading their shrinking yet
beautiful guest. With a kind maternal smile
the matron extended her hand while the young
man turned away with a horrified expression
exclaiming, “Powers of mercy!” As soon as
he could find a chance, he questioned his mother
and sisters as to what in the world had induced
them to have that creature present. They told
him she was there on purpose to meet his
“friend;” whereupon, the young gentleman
declared he should show her not the slightest
respect. To this his sisters affirmed that “that
knavish scamp of a friend” of his should share
the same at their hands. The appearance of
the “lady” guest in the ballroom, created quite
a sensation, but the ladies of the house paid her
such attention that their other guests could
not slight her. And several “respected” gentle-
men who were well known to be dissolute in
their habits, were severely “cut” by the brave
mother and daughters when they observed in
the father or son any signs of insurrection. The
circumstance has been a lesson to the whole
neighborhood, but most and best of all, to the
“fallen” girl who was the guest of the sisters,
and who, our informant states, is entirely re-
claimed.
	The experiment was a serious if not a danger-
ous one and would not do for many people to
repeat, but it illustrates the gross injustice of
society in the treatment of men and women who
may have fallen into evil ways; and shows
clearly the necessity for reform beginning with
the male members of families, who should shun
the male sinners with equal horror to that with
which they expect their wives, sisters and
daughters to shun the female sinners.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
   ANOTHER INTERESTING letter from Miss
Eliza R. Snow will be found in this number of
the EXPONENT.
	ATTENTION is directed to the list of club-
rates on the last page of the present number of
the EXPONENT.
	SHOULD SUBSCRIBERS, especially in the
southern portions of the Territory, not receive
the present number by mail in proper time,
they will please remember that the irregularity
of mail service, owing to the horse distemper,
is the reason.


SUNDAY SCHOOL entertainments, of a very
interesting character, have been given in several
of the wards of this city, so far this winter, and
others are in preparation; the proceeds arising
from a small admission fee, being used for the
benefit of the schools. Singing, recitations,
dialogues, music and select reading are the
principal features of these exhibitions; which
seem to be generally agreed upon as being
superior to dancing, even among the littte folks.
	MONDAY, THE 27th ult., in spite of the “epi-
zootic,” being present, disabling many of the
fine horses, when the snowing and blowing of
the morning was over, witnessed for the first
time this winter, a neat little sleigh—perhaps
more than one of them, but one at least—speed-
ing swiftly along the streets of Salt Lake City
with a load of happy, smiling ladies. There has
been little sleighing in this city for sevreal
winters past.
	AN ARTICLE in the present issue of the E	XPO-
NENT, with the title “Exercise for Girls,” is
commended to the careful consideration of all.
Its author has already favored the columns of
the EXPONENT with a number of choice com-
munications, which elucidate principles of
importance and should secure the attention of
women everywhere, for their value becomes
more apparent the more reflection is bestowed
upon them. We are always pleased to receive
a letter in the now well-known handwriting,
satisfied that a perusal of its contents will well
repay the time so occupied.
	THERE ARE all the indications that another
crusade against the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is about to be commenced,
having its origin in this city. Those who en-
gage in it will fail in accomplishing their
object, as they have done before; but it is none
the less incumbent upon all who desire peace
and the power of truth to be with them, to be
diligent in doing good, and seek earnestly for
that light and intelligence and that strength
which will enable them to overcome evil. In-
deed this is one great means by which those
who desire to bring destruction upon the people
will be frustrated in their purposes..


﻿A GENTLEMAN who had left his wife alone
in the theatre while he went out to get
a whiff of fresh air “apologized” on his re-
turn.   “Dear me” said she “I thought you
went to give me a chance to flirt with that
man with the lovely black mustache.”  She
has had no cause to complain of any want of
attention from her husband since.
	FROM home we are to procure the happi-
ness of a whole life, while from the world
only a few moments of pleasure; it is,
therefore, becoming, and in keeping with
good sense, to be as polite and amiable at
home as in other society.
	SOME one has said that a young mother is
the most beautiful thing in nature. Why
qualify it? Why young? are not all
mothers beautiful? The sentimental outside
beholder may prefer youth in the pretty
picture, but I am inclined to think that sons
and daughters, who are most intimately
concerned in this matter, love and admire
their mothers most when they are old. How
suggestive of something holy and venerable
it is when a person talks of his “dear
mother.” Away with your mincing “ma-
mas,” suggestive only of a fine lady, who
deputes her duty to nurse, a drawing-room
maternal parent, who is afraid to handle
her offspring for fear of spoiling her new
gown. Give me the homely mother, the
arms of whose love all-embracing, who is
always beautiful, whether old or young,
whether arayed in satin, or modestly habited
in bombazine.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	DISTURBANCES are threatened in Wales
by the striking miners.
	FIFTY-nine fishermen were drowned at
Yarmouth, England, in the recent gales.
	AUSTIN, Texas, talks of bridging the Col-
orado at a cost of $500,000.
	A COLORED sportsman in Florida bagged
nine full grown alligators in one day.
	IT is estimated that the annual production
of gold throughout the world is now about
$200,000,000. 
	THE largest deposits of anthracite coal in
the world are in Pennsylvania, the mines of
which supply the market with millions of
tons annually.
	THE annual cost of maintenance of the gal-
vanic batteries used by the Western Union
Telegraph Company is over $125,000.
	BRIGHTON, England, has just opened to
visitors with appropriate ceremony, a mag-
nificent aquarium, probably the largest in
the world.
	FOR the first time in the court annals of
Maryland a man has sued a woman for
refusing to marry him. He lays his damages
at $3,000.
	THE poor Indian is represented in Oregon
by Howlish Wampoo, who has 600 head of
cattle, 2,000 horses and a bank account of
$5,000.	
	EZRA Cornell has lately invested $1,000
in a bust of President Lincoln, copied from
Vinnie Ream’s statue of him, and he will
give it to Cornell University.
	A RUSSIAN lady, who desires to be anony-
mous, but is rumored to be “still very young
and a native of Siberia,” has offered 50,000
roubles for a medical course for ladies, to be
given at the Imperial College of Physicians 
	UPON the sudden death of Mr. George P.
Putnam, three eminent publishers gener-
ously assumed the charge of his business
during the holiday season, for the benefit of
his family, until the surviving members of
the firm can return from abroad and assume
control.
	MADAME Ocker-Boulacre, who died re-
cently at Geneva, and who was famed for 
her beneficence, has left bequests to the
amount of 155,000 francs. Among others,
one of 40,000 to the bureau des Families,
one of 10,000 francs to the National Hospital,
and one of 25,000 francs to the Cantonal
Hospital.
	IT is estimated that in England, more
than 3,000 infants are every year suffocated
by their mothers, who have them with them
in bed. In Bavaria there is a law which
prohibits parents having children under two
years in bed with them, the result being
that instances of suffocation of infants are
very rare there.
	THE Charleston “Republican” has the fol-
lowing:	An exchange paper says that
“Leland Stanford came to California twenty
years ago with only one shirt to his back:
since then, by close attention to business,
he has accumulated 10,000,000.” The “Re-
publican” wants to know what a man wants
of 10,000,000 shirts.


BENEVOLENCE is literally well-willing.
Beneficence is literally well doing. The
former consists of intention the latter of
action. The former is the cause, the latter
the result. Benevolence may exist without
beneficence, but beneficence always supposes
benevolence; a man is not said to be benefi-
cent who does good from sinister views.
The benevolent man enjoys but half his
happiness if he cannot be beneficent.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[Written for the EXPONENT.
		THE "WOMAN’S EXPONENT.”
					—
			We’re no longer contented
			To be misrepresented,
		    In all matters by an opponent;
			 So with common consenting,
			 We are now representing
		    Ourselves, in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			'Tis a small publication,
			Full of choice information,
		    Which the Saints in all places should favor
			For, our faith in explaining
			And our rights in sustaining,
		    There’s none that is truer or braver.

			'Tis a journal for ladies,
			Ev’ry one that a maid is,
		    As well as the wife and the mother;
			 ’Tis a champion of virtue,
			And it never will hurt you.
		    But help you to love one another.

			If you like this description,
			Prove it by your subscription—
		    Excuse me for thus gently hinting;
			And let those who are able
			Keep the Editor’s table
		    Well furnished with items worth printing.
									A MUSER.


A WORD OF CAUTION 	
				—
   The many terrible accidents recorded of
late, occasioned by fires in all parts of the
country, will, perhaps, justify me in the
sight of mothers and those who may become
mothers, in offering to them a word of
caution. Permit me, sisters, to entreat you
to take great care of your little ones and
never leave a match, or any other article
with which they may do harm, within their
reach. I have ever been a great lover of
little children, and they share largely in my
sympathies; for, although I was never a
mother I am an orphan child, only 88 years
old the 8th of August last.
   It is well to remember that when acci-
dents do occur, as they will sometimes with
all our precautions, that presence of mind
should always be preserved, for it is needed.
Four years since I had a little experience
with fire which showed me the necessity of
being calm in a moment of danger. I had
been at work with a large kettle placed over
a fire out door, and not having completed
what I had to do one day, the next morning
I thought to finish my task. I had placed
the fuel under the kettle; it had not yet
blazed; and I reached over to get something
that I wanted to use, when instantly the
fire roared and the blaze coming out half a
yard caught my dress, taking two breadths
nearly to the waist ere I could extinguish it by
wrapping the remainder of the skirt about
and smothering the flames. I ran into my
room, the burning dress was quickly thrown
into water, and I had another on and went
and finished my work, while no one but my-
self was the wiser or knew anything of what
had happened. Had I waited to cry “fire”
when the flames caught my clothes, all
would, doubtless, have been over with me;
but I was no more excited at the moment
than I am now while writing of it.
					RHODA RICHARDS.


THE spirit of true religion breathes gentle
ness and affability; it is social, kind, and
cheerful; far removed from that gloomy,
illiberal superstition and bigotry which
cloud the brow, sour the temper, deject the
spirit, and impress morosity on the man-
ners.
	REFORM, to be of any permanent value,
must be based on personal virtue, not force;
and the millennium will not be far off when
each individual shall set about reforming
himself, rather than society, and conforming
his life to the great law of loving God and
his fellow-men.


THE SEX.
			      —
	MISS Hunt, of Emporia, Kansas, is the
clerk of the lower branch of the Legisla-
ture.
	THERE are six ordained women pastors
in the Universalist Church in the United
States.
	A YOUNG lady of Los Angeles, California,
owns 600 acres of land, and 4,000 head of
cattle, and is still unengaged.
	A NIECE of Daniel Webster is keeping
a Boston lodging house, and her husband
sells fish. She once married for money.
	THE Marchioness of Lorne has been
elected President of the British National
Union for improving the education of
Women.
	THE woman who never watched her
neighbors is said to be a cousin to the
woman who did not know how many dresses
her sister-in-law had.
	MISS Julia Griffin, a young sculptress of
Brooklyn, succeeds Miss Ream at the Indus-
trial Fair. She is at present modeling a
bust of General James Jourdan.
	A WOMAN lately died at Newburyport
who was one of the choir of girls who
greeted General Washington with a song, on
his entrance to Newburyport.
	MRS. Partington says that she did not
marry her second husband because she loved
the male sex, but just because he was the
size of her first husband, and could wear his
old clothes.
	MISS Elizabeth C. Frink, who was teacher
in the Quincy School for about thirty-one
years—from April 30th, 1838, to January
1st, 1869, died very suddenly a few days
ago at her residence, 218 Northampton street.
	IDA Wilson, “nee” Lewis, the GRACE
DARLING of America, still makes Newport
her home, and can often be seen in the
harbor managing her boat. Notwithstand-
ing her marriage she prefers to be callad Ida
Lewis.
	MISS Smiley is converting the Chicagoans
at least to the belief that a woman can
preach, and in such a sweet, womanly way
as to make men ashamed of their sins, and
fill some of the ministers with a pardonable
envy. Even the Presbyterian pulpits are
open to her, and without a ripple of dissent.
	A MONUMENT to the intrepid Hannah
Austin, who killed nine Indians and thus
effected her escape from savage captivity,
is to be erected at the scene of her exploits,
at the juncton of the Contoocook and Pemi-
gewassett rivers, in New Hampshire.
	A YOUNG lady writes to an exchange
giving a receipt for having fun. She says:
Invite half a dozen boys and girls to your
house when pa and ma are away; put a half-
dollar silver piece in a dish with molasses
an inch deep in it, and offer it to the boy
who gets it out with his mouth. The more
the boys try to get it the more fun there will
be.
	ONE day during the hard winter of 1803,
a Miss Arnold applied to General Milroy for
a permit to forage her cow, the milk of which
was the chief support of the family. “Are
you loyal?” asked the General. “Yes,” she
replied. He began to write the permit
—“To the United States or Confederate
States?” “To the Confederacy, of course,”
she replied. “Then I shall give you no
permit,” said the General: “This infamous
rebellion must be crushed.” “Well,” said
she, “if you can crush it by starving John
Arnold’s cow, go it.”


WOMAN'S VOICE. 
			      ——
			OGDEN CITY, Jan. 13, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
   I am not accustomed to write to Editors,
but as we now have one of our own sex,
I desire to communicate to her with free-,
dom. It was for the Gospel that I came to
these valleys in 1848. I know it is the work
of the Lord, the plan of salvation unto all
those who will hearken unto and obey its
precepts. I am a firm believer in all its
principles, as revealed to us through Joseph
Smith; and that if any man thinks to put
down “Mormonism" or plural marriage, it is
between him and the Lord; for the Lord has
commanded; we but obey. I am a free
woman in “polygamy;” and never had
more liberty anywhere in the world
than I have now. The Lord has set up His
Kingdom for the last time, and all the
powers of evil cannot put it down. I think
much of the “EXPONENT” and anxiously
await its coming; it is highly prized by the
brethren of this place, as well as the sisters.
Our Society is prospering well under the
care of our beloved President, Sister Jane
Richards, who, I think, is an example among
women and a pattern for us all.
							   M. H. B.
DEAR EXPONENT:
    While reading your columns, I thought I
would add a few words in my own, simple
way, if acceptable. In the first place, I am
glad that we have such a paper, and think
that it, and also the “Juvenile Instructor”
should be taken and read in every family
in the Territory, for the benefit of young
and old.
    I feel in my heart to glorify the name of
God for His goodness in sending His servants
who brought the glad tidings of the Gospel
to the land of my nativity. When I was
young, beside my mother’s knee, she taught
me good things which I did not forget as I
grew to womanhood. She used to tell me
that unless I should be born of water and
of the Spirit I could not enter into the King-
dom of God. And I would ponder in my
mind, and wonder how it could be, and ask
God in my ignorance to enlighten my un-
derstanding that I might know what to do
to be saved in His Kingdom. He heard and
answered my prayers in His own due time
and way, directing my steps to the place
where His servants first brought the Gospel
into our country. The first time I heard
them, Br. Erastus Snow said that all who
believed in Jesus Christ, and repented of
their sins, forsaking the same, and went
down into the waters and were baptized for
the remission of sins, and had hands laid
upon them by those having authority from
God, for the reception of the Holy Spirit,
should be saved. Then the vail which had
clouded my understanding was rent, and
I could clearly comprehend what the teach-
ings of my mother had reference to, and
what was the first step to be taken that I
might obtain salvation in the Kingdom
of God. I soon got permission of my hus-
band, and was baptized two weeks after I
first heard the Gospel.
    Mothers should always teach their children
such principles as will be for their benefit
both here and here-after. And that the
mothers in Zion may have wisdom to do this
is the prayer of yours truly,	
				A. C. HEDVIG HANSEN.
PLAIN CITY, Jan. 23, 1863.


THE man who does the most has the least
time to talk about what he does.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
			Brussels, Belgium,
				December 9th, 1872.
	Six weeks and two days have elapsed
since I left the “City of the Saints.” In that
time I have journeyed to New York—crossed
the Atlantic—spent two days in Liverpool—
thence to London—stopped nine days in that
mammoth, city of world wide interest, and
withal, so unsystematically planned, that
when asked how I liked London, I invariably
replied that, were I to shape it to my liking,
I should, in the first place take it to pieces
and straighten out its streets. It is impos-
sible to describe them—in curves, semicirles,
diagonals, and a few in straight lines, but
most of these are so abruptly intersected,
that when you turn your eyes to look in the
distance, the focus of sight is brought to a
sudden standstill. But with all these dis-
crepancies--its fogs and darkness, London is a
grand metropolis, where, after you have
seen very much, you realize that, compara-
tively, you have seen but little. So I felt
when leaving on the evening of November
30th, we—President Smith and party—
took cabs at our hotel, “Cook’s Boarding
House,” opposite the British Meseum,—
then the railroad train to Harwich where we
took steamer and crossed the German ocean
—arrived in Rotterdam in the afternoon of
December 1st—after dining on board and
having our effects very politely examined
by the Custom House officer in the service
of King William, while anchored in the
Maes.
	Rotterdam is a beautiful city—one of
many and large industries. It is alive with
business—full of canals, the smaller ones
used for individual purposes, instead of
teams and wagons, the larger ones for ex-
tensive commerce. In every part of the
city, ships are either anchored or afloat giv-
ing the whole town the appearance of a navy
yard. I was very much interested here by
the way of “sight seeing”—was shown the
house once the dwelling of the celebrated
Erasmus, also a bronze statue of him, in
standing position, on an elevated pedestal,
in a much frequented portion of the city.
	On the evening of the 3rd we went to the
Hague—visited the Queen’s palace, entitled
the “House of the Woods,” situated one and
a half miles from the town, in a beautiful
park—the drive to it is through ranges of
stately forest trees. We were shown through
the lovely dwellings, and invited to inscribe
our names in the Queen’s Register. Much
to our regret, her Majesty happened to be in
town at the time. From the Hague we went
to Amsterdam, stopping by the way at Haar-
lem—saw and heard the world renowned
organ in the “Old Church of Bavon,” con-
taining five thousand metal and two thou-
sand wooden pipes. I much admired its
tones, especially when it most magnificently
imitated a thunder-storm. In its tower, I
penciled my name on an elevation of one
hundred and fifty steps; where I obtained a
fine view of the town and its surroundings.
In Amsterdam we quartered at the “Old
Bible Hotel,'‘ where a large Bible is sta-
tioned in an open position directly above the
public entrance. This city, though much
larger, exhibits, in some respects, the same
characteristics as those of Rotterdam and the
Hague, only more so, that is, so far as ship-
ping is concerned. Ships are made here.
In company with President G. A. Smith and
party I went all through a monstrously large
establishment of this kind in the “Dutch
Marine” or Navy Yard of Amsterdam;
where a new iron monitor was just launched,
and where we saw the ponderous machinery
at work with which the muanufacture is
[next column]
accomplished. It was surprising to see
sheets of solid iron, several inches in thick-
ness, cut like cheese. We visited the
King’s Palace which has a ball-room said to
be the best in Europe—it is one hundred
feet high, one hundred and twenty long and
sixty in breadth. The cemetery is very neat
—instead of raised or erect stones, the
graves are covered with beautifully polished
granite slabs laid prostrate—some of them
very expensively and elaborately orna-
mented.
	From Amsterdam we went to Antwerp,
where we submitted our trunks and valises
to the respectful examination of King
Leopold’s officers of customs: Visited the
great Cathedral of Antwerp—examined
some of Rubens’ celebrated paintings—one
in particular which is considered his master-
piece, entitled “The Descent from The
Cross.” We also visited the “Church of
St. Jaques,” which contains the tomb of
Rubens, over which is a painting by himself,
into which he has introduced a representa-
tion of himself, his two wives, his father and
his son. From Antwerp we came to Brus-
sels, where we arrived on the 7th. To-
morrow we anticipate an omnibus ride to
the field of the “battle of Waterloo,” and
the next day we go to Paris.
	With the exception of a little sea sickness
and a cold, taken on emerging from my
steam-boat recess across the ocean, my
health has been excellent, and, thus far, I
have enjoyed the tour much beyond my
expectations. Whatever I enjoy as a tourist,
and whatever good I may accomplish, is
attributable to the financiering and philan-
throphy of my beloved sisters, the noble
ladies of Utah. This, wherever I am, is
present with me. I wish to be remembered
to them all in love, with a double portion to
those dear young ladies who are honoring
that most important position, “Young Ladies’
Retrenchment Organization.” They are
often in my thoughts, with my heart’s earnest
response—God bless them! Clara Little is
a good, companionable girl and I am very
much at home with our party.
						Eliza R. Snow.


BEGINNINGS.
				—
Dear Exponent:—
	In addressing you to-day, I wish to illus-
trate as clearly as possible, my own position
in connection with the heading I have chosen
for this little article. It is well known that
whatever be the object of our study, the
nature of the mind is such that progress in
the acquisition of knowledge is ever gradual;
and that there must be a beginning. Ele-
mentary subjects and explanations are first
wanted in the pursuit of knowledge of any
kind; for we first take a general view of the
subject to be studied, without entering into
the details and minutiæ of its extent and
formation. We must first comprehend what
a subject is before we can learn to analyze
it; and then in any of the laws and sciences
of human or divine nature, where analysis
is thoroughly understood, a knowledge of
synthesis may be readily attained. It is
but a short time since I first began to
“think.” This may seem a curious state-
ment, but it is true; I have always talked
considerably, but there has been no genuine
“thought” in all I have said. To really
“think,” as I now understand the term, re-
quires exertion, is indeed, a task of which
the young, in many instances, have no realiz-
ing sense. I never read a good article in my
life without feeling at the time, that to have
achieved the author’s success, not thinking
of his or her labor, would be delightful. I
never saw a beautiful picture, or other work


of art, in which the powers of genius and im-
agination were enshrined, without being
inspired with an inclination to imitate the
artist’s skill. And I never listened to the
harmonious sounds of music, either vocal or
instrumental, without being impressed with
a desire to try, and a feeling that I might
myself make like melody. But I have lost
time in that I did not begin at an earlier
ago to improve in these things. As I before
stated, I did not “think” until lately. Now
I know that it is never too late to undertake
the study of any art which one may be in-
clined to learn. What if we have let time
and chances slip by us, does not time still
exist holding out to us brilliant opportunities
for acquiring wisdom? This I know: with
many people much is lost and nothing gained
by brooding in vain regrets over “what
might have been had I known then what I
know now!” If we have learned by experi-
ence that some courses are unwise, we may
begin at once to do better; and if opportuni-
ties for self improvement have fled without 
being employed, we can, if we will, create
others, if not as good, at least the best we
can; and live in the present and for the 
future, never allowing ourselves to become
weary and sorrowful over sad reflections of
the past. It is want of thought that keeps
us from gaining many grand achievements
which might otherwise bring most happy
results. When we begin to “think” there
is little danger of our stopping there. We
may fancy some things which are of little
moment and never amount to anything; but
if we really and rationally begin to “think,”
it will not be long ere we commence to
make some sort of beginnings which will
amount to something more than merely to
have it said, we have lived and died.
	Allow me to say that I think the “Ex-
ponent,” at its beginning made a very fair
“debut,” that it has improved extraordin-
arily since its first appearance, and has 
gained my heartfelt interest, and hopes for 
it a long, bright and useful career.
					Country Woman.


[For the Exponent]
		HOME MISSIONARIES.
				——
	Not long since, being in company with	 
several ladies and gentlemen, where the
subject of home missionaries was introduced,
I was led to admire and rfleect somewhat
upon a remark which was made by an 
elderly lady—“a mother in Israel.” She
said, “I have been a home missionary for
nearly forty years, and I think every mother
in Israel is a home missionary who properly
fills her calling.” I considered the sentence
a just one, and worthy of being recorded;
more especially when we contemplate the
saying of the Lord, Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, page 191, section 43, latter part 
of paragraph 4, and fore part of paragraph
5:	“And if it so be that you labor
all your days in crying repentence unto 
this people, and bring save it be one soul
unto me, how great shall be your joy with
him in the Kingdom of my Father! And
now, if your joy will be great with one soul 
that you have brought unto me, into the
King dom of my Father, how great will be
yourjoy if you shall bring many souls unto
me!” Now, if the joy of an Elder will be so
great over those who have through his in-
fluence been brought into the Kingdom of	
our Father, shall not a mother’s joy far 
exceed, when she enters into the Kingdom
of our Father at the head of her posterity,
whom she has brought forth, and led by
precept and example along with her! More
anon
								E. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S AGENCY.
				——
	That, to go to God the Father and ask of Him
a testimony of the truth, and for gifts and
blessings contained in the Gospel, is a divine
right belonging to woman as well as to man,
is clearly evinced in many instances related
in the sacred Scriptures.	In the case
of Hannah, the mother of the prophet
Samuel, when she prayed to the Lord to
give her a son, Eli, the priest, seeing that
her lips moved and that her voice was not
heard, said to her, “Woman how long wilt
thou be drunken with wine?” And Hannah
replied that she was not drunken, but that
she was a woman of a sorrowful heart. And
he said, “The Lord grant thee thy petition.”
And the Lord did hear and answer her
prayer.
	There are many other instances which
might be mentioned. The Shunaemite
woman who sent for the Prophet Elisha to
restore her son to life; and it was done
according to her faith. Also the mother of
Samson of whom it is said, an angel of the
Lord appeared to her and told her she should
have a son that should deliver Israel out of
the hands of the Philistines; telling her
what to do to obtain this great blessing.
She must drink no wine nor strong drink,
neither eat any unclean thing. Men in
our day would think it rather strange for an
angel to appear to their wives without first
appearing to them, but nevertheless, it is
written that women in ancient days received
their dead to life through faith, and enjoyed
the visitation of angels. I would be willing
to be classed with the superstitious and
ignorant to obtain like blessings.
								W. E.


A person’s pride should only dwell in
the principles and not in the manner,
placing nature above everything unworthy,
or that shall lessen dignity or impair honor.
	When St. Paul tells women they must be
obedient to their husbands, he does not re-
lieve husbands of the obligation to make
wives sensible why it is they ought to obey.
There is a corelative duty; and obedience,
when the one part is duly performed, is en-
tire devotion to the instructor, guardian,
and guide.	
	A Brave Wife.—One of the severest
and saddest personal misfortunes created by
our late direful calamity that we have had
to record is the following: On one of the
streets at the south end of our city there
resides a middle-aged man with a wife and
children, who, previous to the fire, were
living happily and faring sumptuously evey
day upon an income arising mainly from
some $300,000 invested in good paying in-
surance stocks. With the calamity all of
this property and source of income were
swept away, leaving him a poor man. It
was a terrible blow. But his loving wife,
though reared in the lap of luxury and un-
used to the perplexities of life, quietly rose
above the wreck and ruin of their worldly
store, disposed of her jewels, and, with such
means as she was able to command, makes
her “debut” as a landlady of a south end
boarding house. The pluck of such a wife
is credit enough for any man to build upon,
and capital enough to float him over the
very tidal wave of misfortune.—“Boston
Herald.”


﻿CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman's Exponent.
[new column]
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10  copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 00	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $1 		-	-	-	-	-	-	  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
Z. C. M. I. 
	Retail Dry Goods Department.
We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure. 
			H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies', Misses' and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make. 
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price. 
				DUNFORD & SONS,
					Salt Lake City. 
[next column]
		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.
	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman's Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the Journal
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	Woman's Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 		$2.00	1 Copy six months,		$1.0[-]
10 Copies one year, 	18.00	10 Copies six months	  2.0[-]
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Pesidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.
	Address all communications and subscriptions
Publishers Woman's Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DENWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1873.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES. 

    BRIBERY INVESTIGATING committees are
the prevailing fashion in political circles.
    THE NEW YORK “Herald” writes it “Dis-
creditable Mobilier” instead of Credit Mo-
bilier, and the “Herald” is correct.
    BOSTON REJOICED in thirty days of un-
interrupted sleigh-riding lately as an evi-
dence of the equability and severity of its
winter climate.
    FORTY-ONE newspapers had their birth
in one week, in the United States, this
present year; and thirteen journalistic ven-
tures came to an untimely end in the same
space of time.
    ONE OF the most horrible things lately
related, in an age of horrors, is that on a
trial for murder in St. Louis, the heart of
the woman murdered was taken to the
jury room and shown to the jury.
    JULIAN HAWTHORNE, son of Nathaniel
Hawthorne, the American novelist, shows
hereditary talent, and is the author of a
novel for which, it is said, the Appletons
have paid him $3,000 in manuscript.
    THE DECADING delegates from Montana
and Idaho, Clagett and Merritt, who failed
to be re-elected to Congress, signalized their
last hours in Congress by emulating each
other in the bitterness of their attacks on
Utah.	
    THE MOST severe weather ever experi-
enced in the United States occurred in
Minnesota on the 13th, 14th and 15th of
January last. Dr. Kane on his Polar expe-
dition, it is said, only once met with such
an awful storm.
    NEW YORK continues agitated over the
question of hanging some of. its murderers.
There are over twenty of them in the
Tombs prison, but “a life for a life” appears
to be a law which New York sentimentality
cannot well stomach.
    IT IS now proposed in Boston to have
young women instructed in washing, iron-
ing, cooking, and other practical parts of
housekeeping; but there is a possibility
that so sensible an idea will be strangled
by some strong-minded attempt to change
its character into something of a political
nature.
    SOUTH CAROLINA, by law, allows a hus-
band to strike his wife “three licks with a
switch,” as a Judge of that State styles it,
without being liable to punishment. If Utah
had a law so barbarous on its statute book,
what a howl would be raised concerning it,
and rightly too; but why so silent concerning
South Carolina?
    MR. JACOB BRIGHT has introduced into
the British House of Commons “a bill to
remove the electoral disabilities of women.”
Progressive as the American people are,
there is every prospect that woman suffrage
will be reached in England before it becomes
general in the United States. Even now
women, who are property owners, can vote
at vestry meetings, and in some of the lead-
ing towns in municipal elections.
    THE SOLEMNITY of ancient Palestine is to
be awakened by the shrill scream of railroad
whistles; and “two hours and a half from
Jaffa to Jerusalem” will take the place of
the slow-moving quadrupeds of earlier
[new column]
times. Thus changes come, and the vision
of the prophet who saw the rushing of
“swift beasts of burden” will be verified.
    THE FRANKING privilege has been
abolished, to take effect on July 1st, 1873;
and the post office estimates have been
reduced a million and a half of dollars
already. This is all very well, as far as it
goes, but in view of some other existing
facts, it is like stopping the waste at the
spigot, while the bung-hole is open.
    MR. CLAGETT, the Montana candidate in
Congress, said a short time ago that the
Mormons paraded the Nauvoo Legion in the
streets of Salt Lake City, last general election
in this Territory, and prevented people
voting. Mr. Hooper, delegate from Utah,
very properly denounced the statement as
false, and every resident of Salt Lake City
will sustain the Utah delegate. This is the
sort of “information concerning Utah” which
men like Mr. Clagett furnish to Congress.
    WHILE THE case of the United States
Senator Caldwell, of Kansas, was under in-
vestigation, he being charged with buying
his way to the Senate by bribing the mem-
bers of the Kansas legislature; United States
Senator Pomeroy, of the same State, sought
to secure his re-election by similar corrupt
means, was exposed, arrested, and placed
under heavy bonds to stand his trial for the
crime. And these men fill the place
of mighty patriots of the past!
    WHAT WITH Credit Mobilier investiga-
tions, probing other charges of bribery,
inquiring into the purchase of seats in the
United States Senate, and similar proceed-
ings in Washington, Congress, for some
weeks past, has had to air considerable
political soiled linen, the stench from which
is very offensive to the public nostril at
home, and its appearance is not calculated
to increase respect for our moral purity
abroad.
    ONE OF the most terrible aspects of the
Credit Mobilier bribery investigation, prose-
cuted by two Congressional committees, is
the amount of willful perjury which must have
been already committed. Prominent men
and prominent members of Congress, give
each other the lie, under oath, with a
degree of recklesssness that should  shock
the moral sense of the country. One painful
fact is clear, not only does the Congress of
the United States contain men susceptible
of bribery, but it also contains members who
must have knowingly committed the crime
of perjury, for which, could it be brought
home to the guilty parties, they should not
only be expelled front Congress and from
respectable society, but their term of service
should be transferred from the halls of legis-
lation to the cells of the penitentiary.
    HARVARD HAS taken another step for-
ward. It is proposed to establish, under
the supervision of the college, a series of
examinations for ladies, in which success
will entitle the competitors to certificates
equal to university degrees. Those who
succeed will not be able to write A. B. or A.
M. after their names, but they will be able
to say they have won as high collegiate dis-
tinction. Very good, so far; but if ladies
cannot secure the degree of Bachelor of
Arts, or Master of Arts, why can they not
be dubbed Spinster of Arts and Mistress of
[new column]
Arts? We have no desire to perpetrate a
pun over the latter, although numbers of 
them are mistresses of quite a number of
arts; but it does seem small business for
learned and ponderous bodies, like Harvard,
to concede the plain and simple rights of all
God’s creatures—to cultivate the intellect
and equally to share honors justly won—
in such piece-meal fashion.
    ONE THE 14th and 15th of the present
month the advocates of woman suffrage, in
Oregon and Washington Territory, are to
meet in convention, for the purpose of effect-
ing a permanent organization, encouraging
the formation of auxiliary couuty organiza-
tions, and generally adopting such measures
as may be deemed best for the purpose of
aiding the agitation looking to securing the
suffrage for women. The movement has
made much progress in Oregon, through the
efforts of Mrs. Duniway, editor of the “New
North West,” published at Portland. In-
deed, in this matter, the West is far in
advance of the East, and of New England 
supposed to be the cradle of reforms. 
Wyoming, a western Territory, was the
first place where woman-suffrage was au-
thorized by law; Utah, another western
Territory, came next; and they are yet the
only portions of the Republic where women
enjoy the right of the ballot. Then, too, the
West has three women’s papers, the “New
North West,” of Portland, Oregon; the
“Pioneer,” of San Francisco, California; and
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, of Salt Lake City,
Utah, all flourishing; which is more than
the East can boast of. New England is
evidently falling in the rear, and should
look to it.
    LEGISLATIVE JOKING sometimes becomes 
important. The Nevada legislature, it is 
said, just now, has under consideration a bill 
prohibiting what are called “Peter Funk
lectures,” or lectures by “dead beats,” as
the western phrase expressively has it, and 
proposing to punish newspaper reporters for
“puffing” them. This is a legislative joke;
and it reminds us of another legislative
joke, as we have heard it from a very reliable
source. When the proposition to extend the
elective franchise to women was broached
first in Wyoming legislature, it was consid-
ered a rich joke, and as such passed through 
both branches of the legislature, each con- 
cluding to let the joke pass them, and both
believing the governor of the Territory
would veto it, being satisfied that so huge a
joke would never do to become a law. But the
governor did not veto it, and the women of
that Territory first enjoyed the elective
franchise by statute law. The last Wyom-
ing legislature concluded it would try and .
nullify that joke, and so passed a bill
repealing the act which granted the suffrage 
to women, but governor Campbell interposed
the veto there, and for the good of the
Territory women can still control its elections
when they choose. The legislature of Utah
did not confer the suffrage upon women as a
joke; in fact it was discussed with much
seriousness, several leading ladies of this
city being present as attentive and inter-
ested spectators; but the bill passed, and was
approved by acting governor Mann; and we
enjoy the ballot just as much as if the
measure had passed in the midst of the most
hilarious bursts of laughter.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO PARIS.

[FROM THE PARIS AMERICAN REGISTER]

	Farewell great Paris, soon I go	
	   Upon the morning train;
	I go where softer breezes blow
	   On land and wat’ry main.

	I’m going now, and as I leave,
	   I take a parting view,
	And see the web of distance weave,
	   That separates from you.

	Your spires that glitter in the sun
	   Above "The Arch of Time,”
	Are disappearing one by one:
	   I hear no church bell chime.
	
	Gay	Paris, beautiful e’en now
	   Bereft of much you boast;
	Tho’ Prus-ia aim’d your pride to bow
	   'Twas Paris hurt you most.

	War demons ’roused in foreign lands
	   Can never wield the power
	As when, by suicidal hands,
 	   Commis ioned to devour—

	Of all the ills of human life
	   That mighty nations cursed;		
	The warfare of internal strife
	   And carnage is the worst.	

	Your ruined Palaces and Halls,
	   Scathed by fraternal hate,
	Are sad mementos—each recalls
	   Your folly and your fate.

	M. Thiers, with wise sagacity,
	   The dire result foresaw
	 lf France, with blind temerity,
	   The battle-ax should draw.

	He with the French Assembly plead,
	   And with Napoleon,
	To change their purpos’d aim to tread
	   The pride of Prussia down.

	He now presides. Will France sustain
	   His policy of peace, 
	Or in a vortex plunge again
	   Where waste and crime increase? 

	Fair, lovely Paris! What shall be
	   Your future, who can tell?
	Your lofty spires, no more l see— 
	   Again I say, Farewell!	
							ELIZA R. SNOW.


F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					——
			4th Ward Assembly Rooms,
					Salt Lake City, Feb. 1st, 1873.
	Faith being the subject to be considered
at the General Retrenchment meeting, after
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the reading and acceptance of the minutes
of the last meeting, and also the reading of
the minutes of meetings held in the 11
and 8th Wards, by the “Young Ladies’
Co-operative Retrenchment Associations,”
sister Emeline B. Wells read from the Book
of Doctrine and Covenants, the first lecture
on faith.
	Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball then
said if she did not understand something
about the subject of the chapter which had
just been read, she had been a very dull
student. Faith was an attribute of the Deity.
It was also an attribute of man, the highest
attribute, by which, earthly things were
linked with those above; it was indeed, the
most elevated attribute mortals could
possess. It should be cultivated; and the
way to cultivate it, was to think, to read, to
reason and to pray. It was possible to abuse
any attribute and to cause it to become
diseased by too constant and fervent use
being made of it. To be strong in body and
strong in mind it was requisite to keep all
the faculties correctly exercised. The dif-
ference between faith and excitement was
manifested by the workings of the true
spirit of the Lord and that of magnetism,
as shown by the power a strong Methodist
revivalist, could have over a congregation.
[new column]
Counselor Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith said
that in a prayer meeting in  Nauvoo, Presi-
dent Joseph Smith once told the people,
they did not yet know how to pray. She
wanted much to have him instruct them,
that she might learn the proper way. It
was not long until he did teach them to
pray in prayer circles, uniting their faith,
and thus increasing the strength and efficacy
of prayer.
	Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff said it
was needful for us to seek knowledge out
of the best books and by talking to each
other. It had been read that by faith the
world was framed. She understood from
that that the Lord and His co-laborers had
gone to work, believing that if such and
such quantities of the different substances
were systematically arranged together,
the world and its inhabitants would be
—and exist; just as an adobie maker has
faith that by putting such and such materials
together and properly working the same, he
can make an adobie.
	Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young said that
they were all in school. When associated thus
together the best thoughts were brought
forth. As sister Kimball had said, it was
true that the mind might become diseased
by being too much exercised, even by pray-
ing too much and too anxiously. A bow if
always strung would soon lose its elasticity;
so also the mind would become weakened
by being too continually employed.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant said faith was a
gift of God, but that “Faith without works
was dead,” and should be carefully coupled
with good works at all times. It was a
matter of great importance that the young
be taught the principle of faith in its correct
form.
	Mrs. Mary E. Whitt said that it was often
seen that little children would have more
faith than those of more mature years. She
related an incident in which she was healed
by the administration of her little son,
whose perfect and pure faith in the power
and mercies of God had claimed for her the
blessings which he asked in childish sim-
plicity and trust.
	Remarks were made by other sisters,
and meeting adjourned for two weeks; the
subject of  "Faith” to be continued.
			        ——
			HEBRON, Jan. 22nd, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was reorganized the 19th of
October, 1872, with Mrs. Esther Pulsipher,
President; and Mrs. Sarah H. Crosby and
Mrs. Salinda Huntsman, Counselors. Our
Society is small, consisting of nineteen
members, and we live somewhat isolated,
being the most south-western settlement in
Utah. Notwithstanding, we desire to be
one with our sisters in our labors of love,
that thereby we may lighten the burdens of
our brethren in helping to roll forth the Lat-
ter-day work. Our means are limited as
yet, but with the blessing of our Heavenly
Father, we intend to increase them by ad-
ding our mites together, to assist the poor
and aid in gathering those who are in
bondage in distant lands, that they with us
may be made free; or to help in any other
wise purpose. At a meeting held last
October, a vote was taken to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society,
which was unanimously sustained. Your
very valuable paper is highly esteemed by
us, and is read with interest. We feel that
it will do much good in vindicating the
cause of the so-styled “Down-trodden wo-
men of Utah.” May Heaven bless the
Editor and all others who help to promote
the cause of truth,
		MRS. ANN PULSIPHER, Secretary.
[new column]
				LEHI, Utah County,
				  January 25th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONANT:—
	The Lehi Relief Society was organized
in October of 1868, with Mrs. Sarah C.
Evans, President; Martha P. Thomas and
Barbary A. Evans, Counselors; Rebecca
Standring, Secretary; and Mary Ann Davis,
Treasurer.
	During the four years, from October, 1868,
to October 1872, we received in donations
six hundred and twenty dollarsand seventy-
five cents; and disbursed to the poor four
hundred and thirty dollars. We own one
share—one hundred dollars—in the Provo
woolen factory; two shares—fifty dollars—
in the Co-operative store; have donated to
the P. E. Fund twenty-five dollars; to mis-
sionaries seventy-five dollars, and have a
balance on hand, in stock and other property,
of one hundred and twenty-three dollars.
We are still prospering, and still feel to
thank God that we are enabled to assist
somewhat in blessing His poor, and causing
them to rejoice.
	At a meeting held December 12th, 1872,
a unanimous vote was taken to drop the
word “Female” from the name of the
Society.		
	Wishing you much success in your noble
efforts to sustain the truth and increase
intelligence,
	  	   I am respectfully yours, 
		     REBECCA STANDRING Sec’y.
				—
	Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs Elizabeth How-
ard and Miss Louise L. Greene by special
invitation, were present at the monthly
meeting of the Relief Society of sugar House
Ward, held Wednesday, the 5th inst., at
the residence of President Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
The liberal donations brought in, the excel-
lent reports given by the Teachers, and the
devout sentiments expressed at that meet-
ing, as well as in the minutes of a former
one, forcibly evinced the satisfactory truth,
that the spirit of oneness and integrity
prevail to a very great extent among the
sisters of that Ward.	
				  —
	The Relief Society of Ogden held a
meeting and sewing circle, Jan. 30th, 1873.
A large number of the sisters met, and a
good spirit was manifested by all present;
with a great desire to do all they can to
alleviate the sufferings of those that are
needy. We have been making exertions to
provide those that came in last fall with
bedding suitable to the inclemency of the
season, so that none need suffer  I feel that
as sisters and helpers in the Kingdom of
God we have a great duty to perform, and if
we fail in that duty, we shall fail to receive
that great reward which awaits the dutiful
in the future. The sisters all seem anxious
to assist our President, J. S. Richards, who
sets an example worthy for all to follow, by
her words of kindness and deeds of charity.
					  A. M. FRODSHAM.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
			HOME DRESS.
				——
	WELL-managing housewives are already
considering their Spring sewing. Among
the first things necessary are the home
dresses. For home wear, calico retains its
supremacy. The most desirable is the Eng-
lish, which is a yard wide and can be bought
for 20 cents. It is firm and close in texture
and of patterns which commend themselves
both in color and beauty. Unlike our
American prints, they do not ape the French,
but have a character quite their own. The
prevailing tint is generally brown or purple,


in slender sprigs or geometrical patterns.
That in black and white is extremely pretty,
and washes admirably. French calico is
always desirable. It comes in beautiful de-
signs—stripes in colors harmoniously min- 
gled or in dark grounds, black, brown or 
wood tints, interspersed with bright bou-
quets and festooned with vines. They are
dressy, and, coquettishly made, make a very
becoming morning toilette. They cost from
25 to 50 cents a yard and are a yard wide.
American calicos we find now at ante-war
prices. They are constantly improving in
designs, but not in texture. They are so
cheap, however, that they can be often
I changed, if one does not take the making
into consideration.
	It is not in good taste to ornament calico
dresses elaborately. The most popular style
is the loose Gabrielle. The sleeves are
made coat—tapering closely to the wrist.
Oxydized buttons are very suitable, or bril-
liant pearl, medium size. We doubt
whether any style of calico dress can ever
rival the blouse, fitting easily and loosely,
and full skirt with gored front. This is
becoming to most figures.—Moore’s “Rural
New Yorker.”

WATERPROOFING.—A writer in the Lon-
don “Illustrated News” says: By the way,
touching waterproofs, I think I can give
travelers a valuable hint or two. For many
years I have worn India-rubber waterproofs;
but I will buy no more, for I have learned
that good Scottish tweed can be made per-
fectly impervious to rain, and, moreover, I
have learned how to make it so; and for the
benefit of my readers, I will here give the
recipe: In a bucket of soft water, put a half
a pound of sugar of lead and half a pound of
powdered alum; stir this at intervals until
it becomes clear; then pour it off into another
bucket, and put the garment therein, and
let it be in for twenty-four hours; then hang
it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party (a lady and gentleman) have worn
garments thus treated in the wildest storm
of wind and rain, without getting wet. The
rain hangs upon the cloth in globules. In
short, they are really waterproof. The
gentleman walked, a fortnight ago, nine
miles in a storm of rain and wind such as
you purely see in the South, and when he
slipped off his overcoat, his underclothes
were as dry as when he put them on. This
is, I think, a secret worth knowing; for
cloth, if it can be made to keep out wet, is
in every way better than what we know as
waterproofs.

	Blanc Mange.—Four tablespoonfulls,
or three ounces, of corn-starch to one quart
of milk. Disolve the corn in some of the
milk. Put into the remainder of the miik,
four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of
lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to
near boiling. Then add the mixed corn,
and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes:
take out the rind, and pour into a mould or
cup, and let it stand until cold. When cold
and turned out, pour round it any kind of
stewed or preserved fruit, or a sauce of milk
and sugar.

	Rennet.—A more tender and delicate
curd than is produced by the common rennet
is said to be made with the rough coats
which line the gizzards of turkeys and
fowls. Take a number of them, clean from
them the pebbles they contain, rub well with
salt and hang them to dry. When to be
used, break off some bits of the skin and
pour on it some boiling water; in a few
hours the liquor is ready for use, and is to
be used the same as other rennet.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.
				—
			Genoa, Italy, Dec. 29, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula:
	I attended the London Conference of the
Saints, with much satisfaction. ln company
with Mrs. Thompson, Miss Clara Little and
Elder Junius F. Wells, who kindly proffered
to escort us, I spent one day in making calls
among the Saints. I told brother Wells
that I wished to see the poorest Saints in
London. He said he would take us
to those in lowest circumstances of any
in the city and then to those who possessed
the most of this world’s goods; although, he
said, outside the city are some much more
destitute than those within onr reach.
	All whom we visited seemed cheerful
and happy. We found one family, in particu-
lar, destitute enough, in an upper room,
reached by a dark, narrow, winding stair-
way, who apparently had to “work their
lives out, to keep life in.” In a small room
that I could nearly reach across, the mother
and two daughters were busy at their “an-
nual” employment, with scissors, paste,
guilt trimmings, pastboard, wire, and rib-
bons, making boxes of all fanciful forms and
sizes, for a wealthy merchant who furnished
the materials, and paid them at  very low
figure for their work. We spent the even-
ing at brother Rowe’s where we were
genteelly entertained and had not only the
pleasure of the society of our Palestine
tourists, but of a goodly number of mission-
aries from Utah.
	At Rotterdam we put, up at the “Bath
Hotel,” a commodious building—evey thing
in excellent order, and scrupulously clean.
Cleanliness seems to be a characteristic
with hotels in Holland; and, admitting
industry to be promotive of neatness, it
must also be a national characteristic. No
sensible, candid person can visit this
country without according to the people
the credit of industry, and indomitable per-
severance. Most people think they do "well
to cultivate the ground after it is made, but
the Hollanders make much of the ground
they cultivate, and when made and culti-
vated, it requires constant labor and expense
to protect it from inundation. They must,
as a matter of course, be honest, they have
not time to be otherwise.
	The wise policy of the Dutch, brings
wealth: they import raw material of every
kind—manufacture it, and export it when
manufactured. For instance, they purchase
American lard, and then, after multiplying
its value, in their factories, sell it to Amer-
icans, in the form of candles. I noticed
women wearing ornaments of gold on their
heads which were very conspicuous—some
of the size of a silver dollar and, some much
larger—and was informed that those ladies
were wives of wealthy farmers, and that
they wore those ornaments to represent
their wealth.
	I could not pass over this very interesting,
small portion of the world, in silence; but in
writing to the “Deseret News,” my brother
has said so much about Holland, its inhabit-
ants, shipping, canals, etc, I shall not
attempt description. Suffice it to say, I
enjoyed my visit in that kingdom, immensly
—Rotterdam, the Hague Haarlem and
Amsterdam, from which we returned to
Rotterdam en route to Antwerp in Belgium
—thence to Brussels, celebrated for its
carpets and lace, which we saw and admired,
from which place we visited the battle-field
of Waterloo, and the next day left Belgium
en route for Paris, where, including one day’s
visit to Versailles, we spent five days very
pleasantly.
[new column]
	Rain in unusual quantities has been the
order of the day overhead, and under foot
from the time we landed in Liverpool until
now, with few exceptions. Large tracts of
cultivated land, with fencing nearly covered,
and in many instances, houses entirely sur-
rounded with water, sometimes on one side
of the railroad, at other times on both, have
presented ocean scenes rather than those of
“terra firma.” But with all the rains and
floods, we have experienced but little incon-
venience—the most was in coming from
Nice to this place—overflow of water had
made breaches in the track, and instead of
one day we were two days on the way,
distance one hundred and twenty-six miles.
We have met with no other detention.
Some of our party estimated the length of
all the tunnels in the above distance, to be
at least, twenty miles. Whoever projected
a railroad in this Alpine country is worthy of
a gold statue, for his courage and intrepidity.
It is astonishing to think of the amount of
labor and expense requisite for the accom-
plishment of this Herculean project. Most
of these tunnels are cut through solid rock,
and permanently arched, a protection against
mountain torrents flowing into the Mediter-
ranean, the shores of which, the railroad
follows from Marseilles to Genoa, except
when tunneled, or cut through the many
spurs of the Alps projecting into the sea.
	Compared with those of England, America
may boast the long stretch of her roads, but,
so far as work and means are concerned,
Americans should doff hats in presence of
this Herculean enterprize, of suthern
France and northern Italy.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Turin.
						Eliza R. Snow.


[Written for the Exponent.
			BACHELORS.
				——
	“Gentlemen” (?) say they can’t afford to
marry, for fear the extravagances of women
would work their financial ruin. All bosh!
The meanest kind of humbuggery! Watch
the man that makes this excuse, and you
will find him intensly selfish, wrapped up
in self, lavishing every cent he possesses on
self, hugging himself and caring for no one
in the world but himself. Follow the
history of his career, from youth to middle
age; see if he ever did one noble action.
The record of his life will be self. In youth
he will whine over the extravagance of the
girls, or their follies, or whatever the
fashionable outcry happens to be against
women. In middle age he makes it his
business to sneer at women, but begins to
think he had better marry, that he may
have somebody to nurse him in sickness,
who must bear with his ill humor and in-
consistencies. In old age—pity any one
who has the trouble of him! In his secret
soul he wishes he had married when young,
would give all he is worth if he had a wife
to torment. The envy and bitterness of his
poor old soul finally takes him out of this
state of existence, and eveybody who has
had to put up with his selfish whims is
thankful that he has gone. Such individuals
are looked upon with astonishment, by
happy husbands and fathers, who wonder
why they never marry and think the poor
old bachelor a great fool to live so long with-
out wife and children. Those who have
had anything to do with old bachelors, will
know this is no fanciful sketch.
				A Married Woman.


﻿Missouri has taken a step in advance,
by the introduction of a bill in its legislature
making seduction a crime. 	will the bill
become law? It should.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt	Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15,1873.


SPLINTERS.
	Two of the pension agencies of this
country are managed by women...........Iowa
laws now make no distinction between hus-
band and wife in their control over their
own property.......An old man in Caldwell,
who was not strong minded himself, took
with him his better half, when he went to
vote, to see that he was not coaxed into
voting the Democratic ticket.......Milan is
cheered by the singing of Brignoli.......The
“Pall Mall Gazette” is reported to have paid
Hepworth Dixon one farthing on his suit
for libel......The Irish orator, Father Burke,
is sick......A school at Geneva, R. I., was
lately broken up by a lively bull-dog......An
old lady, nearly eighty years of age, recently
hanged herself in Kentucky. It was a pity,
having lived so long to leave such an exam-
ple on record......Lexington, Ky., claims
the largest conservatory in this country......
It is suggested that babies taken to theatres
should be checked at the door and hung up
like umbrellas; would poorly dressed ones
be liable to get exchanged for those of better
appearance, as umbrellas frequently do?......
Stanley has been given a brilliant banquet
at Washington......Senator Sumner is still
feeble, though now able to sit up......Jenny
Lind lately sang in the American chapel at
Florence......Ben Wade’s daughter-- if he
has one—is about to marry a carpenter......
The Kansas Legislature has four women
clerks......Emerson, with his daughter Ellen,
has left Rome for Egypt......A Methodist
minister in Massachusetts being absent on
Sunday, his wife performed the pulpit
services satisfactorily to the people and,
doubtless, to herself......More than 25,000
persons viewed the remains of Napoleon
lying in state, though none, it was stated,
but particular friends of the family and dis-
tinguished representatives......A hurricane
from the north, recently vistied Minnesota,
lasting more than two days, freezing nearly
one hundred persons to death, and block-
ading all the railroads and common roads
with huge banks of snow.......Boston is said
to claim in May or Pierce its first bachelor
chief magistrate.....Lord Edward Lytton
Bulwer, whose death occurred on the 18th
of January, was sixty-seven years old......
Perteet, a colored wife murderer of Chicago,
is sentenced to be hanged.....It was a girl
of the period who said, when going to be
married, she took a “spoony” who had no
mind of his own that she might always have
her own way; and it was the Bible he threw
at and struck her with the other evening,
because his supper wasn’t ready when he
came home.......A lady writer pronounces
fashion at a standstill, and says everything
seems to be a modification of last year’s
style. If fashion has really run the full
length of her chain she can do no better
perhaps, than to retrace her steps back as
she first trod them.......The fact of Mrs. N.
B, Gardiner being recognized as a voter in
the 9th Ward of Detroit, Michigan, is said
to have caused considerable excitement
thereabouts......In some of the Eastern
schools and seminaries, much just indigna-
tion has been aroused by the discovery that
opium venders are in the habit of sending
opium surreptitiously prepared iu candy and
lozenges into the schools.......Mrs. Bloomer,
who has been accused of having pledged
allegiance to the Woodhull, denies the charge
openly.......The first organized county dairy
market in the United States, was commenced
at Little Falls, New York......Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick are to be connected by
a canal....A letter carrier in Cleveland,
Ohio, received, on New Year’s day, $627:75.
......Mrs. Livermore says that five-sixths of
[new column]
the applications for divorce come from
couples who have not been married over
five or six years; if they tide over that
period they generally keep on to the end.
......George Francis Train has been a
prisoner in thirteen jails......A lady at
Council Bluffs who lighted her fire with
kerosene, leaves a husband and one child.
......There are seven woolen mills in Oregon
which used 4,191,000 pounds of wool last
year......Parson Brownlow has written the
inscription for bis tombstone......In 1848,
Rev. Miles Grant, the adventist, gave away
a fine property in Connecticut, thinking the
final day was at hand, and has lately been
preaching in the same place......Ffty years
ago, blue eyes for ladies were the rage in
America; then black and dark brown ones
were considered the most attractive, and
since, gray ones have taken the place for
beauty; but now it matters little what the
color of the eyes are so the hair is flaxen
and the face has its proper amount of paint
......Illinois is nearly free from debt.


EXCITEMENT CONCERNING UTAH.
			  —
	﻿The periodical excitement in regard to Utah
is being worked up in the East. Scarcely a lead-
ing journal is now received from that part of the
United States that does not contain something
sensational from Washington, relative to what
is going to be done with Utah. At one time
ten thousand troops are to be sent here imme-
diatly; another time, petitions are stated to
have been received from the “Gentiles” of this
Territory, asking assistance; next, it is averred
Congress will pass some sweeping measure to
solve the “Mormon problem;” and then it is
announced that President Grant has deter-
mined to have the law enforced in Utah if it
requires the entire force of troops in the United
States to do it.
	While reading all this we involuntary ask
what place is the subject of so much comment?
And can scarcely realize that our moderately
quiet home, where, there seems nothing to
attract such attention, can be the object of all
the excitement we read of. But the fact forces
itself upon us, that there are a few men—bad
men, we may say; unscrupulous men, who aim
at carrying out the destructive policy of “rule
or ruin” who are the authors or circulators of
nearly all the falsehoods published concerning
Utah. They assert that the “Gentiles” are re-
stricted in their constitutional rights in this
Territory, but they fail to point to a single illus-
tration; they allege that all elective offices in
the Territory are tilled by candidates of the
“Mormons,” conveying the impression that
the elections are not fairly conducted, but sup-
pressing the fact that the Mormons, being in
the majority of eight to one, will naturally do
as people do elsewhere, elect their candidates
peacefully and lawfully; they demand that the
elective franchise be taken from the women of
Utah, because those women, understanding
them and their purposes, refuse to be led by
them or be their dupes; and they publicly
charge immorality upon the people of Utah,
while privately acknowledging that the Mor-
[new column]
mons are the most moral people they have
ever lived among.
	The astonishing part of the matter is, that
the people of the Eastern States, having had
such calumnies refuted so often, can be
deceived by them again. Why, it is only a
couple of days since we read a telegram from
Washington, in the “Ogden Junction,” which
reminded us of the sensational stories which
used to be sent broadcast over the world, of
President Young opening all the letters sent
from Utah, to see that no person told the truth
concerning it; and of the hairbreadth escapes
which some people had in fleeing from “the
horrors of Mormondom.” Few could be found
now to believe such trash, but a leading paper
published in Washington, largely owned by
Senator Harlan—who is a special favorite of
Dr. Newman—actually says that the “Mor-
mons” have “sought to exclude from their midst
all who fail to conform to the Mormon faith,
and practice; a system of persecution that
ought to have been rebuked long since!” It is
not supposed that this friend of Dr. Newman,
who personally had the privilege of denouncing
"Mormonism” in the large Tabernacle in this
city, did not know any better than this, for
such ignorance would be inexcusable; but he
does not hesitate to violate truth and trample
honesty in the mire, that he may deceive those
who are no better informed than to believe
him, that bitter feelings may be excited against
a community whose industry, temperance,
probity, sincerity and virtue are a standing
reproach against the hypocrisy and prominent
vices of the age. But while the old adage may
be correct, that a falsehood will travel twice
round the earth while truth is putting on its
boots, this should also be remembered, that
“Truth crushed to earth will rise again,”
for it is sustained by an inherent power which
cannot alway be overcome.


LEGAL INCONSISTENCY. 
	
	Some of the lawyers of this city—twenty-six,
indeed—have signed a document, published last
week in the “Salt Lake Herald,” which is at
once an accusation against the Territory and a
memorial to Congress, setting forth some of the
usual charges against the people of Utah which
ought to be too stale now to be rewarmed and
served up again for the thousandth time, by
these gentlemen. The “Herald” has been
handling the document without gloves, and
showing in plain terms its unfairness, weak- 
ness, unjust statements and bitter partisanship;
but one portion of it demands notice by the
EXPONENT. It covertly attacks the right of the
women of Utah to the elective franchise, by
attacking the law conferring the franchise upon
them:  We say covertly, and might add that
the entire document is gotten up in such style,
is not straightforward, nor honorable, but reads
more like the plea of a pettifogger in one of the
lower courts than a composition such as would
be expected from twenty-six individuals who
are entitled by law and usage to be styled
“learned gentlemen.” The document submits
“that the act of February 12th, 1870, prostitutes
the right of suffrage by conferring it upon an
alien woman without even qualification of time
of residence.” The simplest and most complete
way of refuting this is by quoting the act itself,
which being short, we here append in full:
				AN ACT.
Conferring upon women the elective franchise.
	(Approved February 12, 1870.)
	Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah:
That every woman of the age of twenty-one
years who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceding any general election,


born; or naturalized in the United States, or
who is the wife, widow, or daughter of a native-
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting
with this Act are hereby repealed.
	The act is so plain that it seems impos-
sible any one would attempt to dispute the fact
that it convicts these gentlemen of willful and
deliberate misstatements, with intent to de-
ceive.
	In looking over the names we note some who
were at one time very anxious that the women
of Utah should possess the elective franchise.
They were then, as they are now, aspirants for
notoriety and power; and they imagined that
women were weak, pliable beings, who could
not withstand their wonderfully eloquent
sophistries, but would rush to the polls enthusi-
astically determined to give these wordy
champions the desired elevation to office and
emoluments. But when the women of Utah
received the elective franchise, it was speedily
apparent that they could think and act for
themselves, and that they would vote for the
candidates whom they believed most suitable;
and they actually did vote for the men who had
conferred upon them the legal right to vote.
Then came a change with these before-time
self-proclaimed champion of the  "down-trod-
den women of Utah.” They found they had
made a mistake, and reckoned without suffi-
cient acquaintance with independent woman-
nature; and they have since been more loudly
urgent that Congress should step forward and
annul the Territorial statute than they ever
were that the women of Utah should receive
the elective franchise.
	As it is always well to know our friends, and
as some of our readers or their husbands, fathers,
or sons, may, unfortunately, have occasion to
require the services of a lawyer, we append the
names of the twenty-six who urge upon Con-
gress legislation inimical, to Utah, and the
taking from the women of Utah the right of
suffrage.
	J. B. Bosborough,		R. H. Robertson
	D. Cooper,			C. W. Bennett,
	Wm. Haydon,		C. K.Gilchrist,
	Frank Tilford,			C. H. Morgan
	D. J. Toohy,			Sol. P. McCurdy,
	E. P. Johnson,		J. N. H. Patcick,
	Wm. Hyndman,		Wm. P. Appleby,
	James M. Carter,		M. Kirkpatrick,
	Thomas Marshall,		Jno. R. McBride,
	Jonathan C. Royle,	Warren Earll,
	Wm. C. Hall,			George E. Whitney,
	Jas. G. Spratt,			Wells Spicer,
	W.W. Gee,			R. N. Baskin.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				141


HOME	AFFAIRS.
 				      — 
	There is some excitement in the East con-
cerning Utah, but the people here seem un-
affected by the contagion.	
	A Correspondent in Alta, Little Cotton-
wood, informs us that for several weeks her
bedroom has been perfectly dark, from the win-
dows being under an enormous snow drift.
	Attention is again respectfully called to
the terms of clubs on the last page; with a hope
that the friends of the Exponent will continue
to use their endeavors in behalf of the paper.
	Mrs. Willmarth East, as local Agent
for the EXPONENT, is on hand to receive sub-
scriptions for the same, wherever it may be
more convenient for subscribers to see her
than the Editor or general Agent.
	The latest news from President Smith and
the Palestine party, among whom is Sister
Snow, reports them in Italy enjoying good


health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is the, less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.
----
﻿health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is the, less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.
----
﻿health. President Albert Carrington, of the
European Mission, was about to join them.
	Encouragement is offered to the Exponent
in many instances from friends whose judge-
ment and candor, as well as their open hearted-
ness we esteem very highly, and we are happy
in acknowledging our obligations and in tender-
ing our thanks for the same.
	A large number of patrons of the Expo-
nent, who subscribed for six months, have not
renewed their subscriptions, which expired
some time ago. Will they please renew im-
mediately, or we shall be compelled to stop
forwarding their papers?
	The number of restless and bad men, that
are now on the streets of Salt Lake city at
night, render it necessary that ladies should be
careful how they travel the streets after dark,
unless accompanied by a male protector. Time
was it was not so, but changes have occurred.
	That terrible disease, smallpox, has lately
visited a few of the wards of this city and some
of the settlements of the Territory, especially
in Morgan County. In regard to this as to
other diseases which spread infection easily, a
few facts should be more widely known than
they are. Woolen clothes will carry contagion
more readily than cotton, and cotton even
more readily than linen. The harder the
thread of which any fabric is woven and the
closer the texture, it is then less likely to carry
infection. Cleanliness should characterize
every dwelling at all times, but double care
should be taken where there is danger from
contagious diseases. In such cases disinfect-
ants, such as chloride of lime, should be kept
in the house to be used as occasion might require;
while a little vinegar sprinkled around in the
room where a patient is suffering, will be found
valuable. To these precautions should be added
the avoidance of undue fear or excitement, and
the use of every precautionary measure to
prevent the spread of infection.


﻿A TEACHER’S STORY.

	“When I was on a mission in Scotland,”
said he, “I one day picked up a piece of a
newspaper, which contained a story of a
great king, of olden times, when the kings
of the earth used to keep ‘fools’ to make
sport for them. This king once gave his
staff to his fool saying to him as he did so,
'Take this staff and keep it until you find a
greater fool than yourself, then give it to
him.’ The fool took the staff and went
his way, and in the course of time the king
was taken very sick. He was, indeed 'sick
unto death and when he knew that he
must die, he sent for his fool to come to him
that he might bid him a final farewell.
When the fool appeared before him, the
king told him he was going a long journey
into an unknown land, from whence he
should never return. The fool then asked
his master how he was going. The king
said he did not know. The fool inquired
how the king would be supported in the
new home he was going to, where he should
remain forever, what provisions had been
made for his journey and his stay. The
king answered, none, and that he knew not
anything concerning the way or the place.
'Then,’ said the fool, ‘take this staff—for in
all my life, I have not been guilty of things
as foolish as these.’ ”
	“Now,” continued the teacher, “let us
not be worse than the fool; but let us day by
day make some wise preparations for that
long journey, which all must take, and that
now home which all must enter.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			—
	THE new directory of Des Moines indicates
a population of 15,000.
	THE Omaha, Neb. “Dispatch" is dead. It
run the race with dispatch.
	A SOLDIER'S monument is to be erected at
Dubuque, and the war graves then fenced.
	THE HUDSON river ice crop is estimated at
a million and a half tons, and was all to be
gathered by the 1st of February.
	McPherson, the county seat of McPher-
son, contains six houses and a newspaper—
the “Messenger.”
	A LIVE dog arrived in Lansing in a
United States mail bag on the 24th ult., as a
Christmas present for the postmaster.
	FOR the Centennial of American Indepen-
dence, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.
	THE greatest mass of solid iron in the world
is the great Iron Mountain in Missouri. It
is three hundred and fifty feet high, and
two miles in circuit.
	THE statistical tables of England show that
less than one-third of the marriageable
women of that country were living in mar-
riage at the time of the last census.
	THE New York “Herald” says, the crime
of outraging female chastity in the South
appears to be especially the province of the
liberated negro.
	CORNELIUS Miles of Appanoose county,
took up his ashes, set them against the
house, and with his family went a visiting.
When he returned his home was gone.
	SERVANT girls are scarce in Topeka, Kan-
sas, and will continue to be so, says the
“Commonwealth,” as long as wives main-
tain prejudice against good-looking help.
	CEDAR Rapids gets the State Presbyterian
college for $100,000. Two men give be-
sides $25,000 each for endowment. It will
open next September.
	THE greatest cave in the world is the
Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky, where one
can make a voyage on the waters of a
subterrannean river, and catch fish without
eyes.
	THE Rev. John Tecumseh Jones, an in-
dustrious, economical Indian, of the Ottawa
tribe, died lately, and left his whole estate,
$60,000, to the Baptists in the State of Kan-
sas, for the education of ministers.
	AT a Georgia revival meeting, they search
all applicants for admission to the “mour-
ner’s bench,” and the proceeds, in the shape
of bowie knives and revolvers, are raffled off
at the close of the services, for the benefit of
the missionary fund. 
	A WICHITA man was found carrying
concealed about his person two navy revol-
vers, three pocket pistols, two billies, some
brass knuckles, an air gun and a sword cane.
He said he was going on the plains to fight
Indians, but the Cadi sent him to fight the
vivacious flea and enterprising bed bug in
the calaboose.
	Brain work costs more food than hand
work. According to careful estimates and
analyses of excretions, three hours of hard
study wear out the body more than a whole
day of severe physical labor. Another evi-
dence of brain work is obtained from the
fact that though the brain is only one for-
tieth the weight of the body it receives
about one-fifth of all the blood sent by the
heart into the system.


﻿If the whole world should agree to speak
nothing but the truth, what an abridgement
it would make of speech.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHAPTER IN THE LIFE OF NAOMA.

	Naoma was the daughter of———of Ro-
chester, New York, where some of her
family still reside. She married. Her
husband was a moral man, a skillful me-
chanic, and a good financier; she an indus-
trious, frugal, and loving wife. A few short
years of labor and love, crowned with the
blessing of home, with all its endearing sur-
roundings and appertunances, caused her
heart to swell with uncontrollable joy as she
contemplated the haven of domestic bliss
in which she might now repose.
	But a missionary came. He said, “My
friends, I come to you in the name of my
Master, to offer you a commission to labor in
a the vineyard of the Lord. But know that
the Alter of sacrifice accompanies it—that
you will be required to sacrifice all that you
now hold dear. The conditions imply that
you, of your own free will, give yourselves,
your affections, your time, your all to Him
to whom all persons and all things rightfully
belong."
	They accepted the commision with its
conditions, laid their friends and their pos-
sessions on the alter, and journeyed to Kirt-
land, Ohio, where a few who had accepted
the same commission, had preceded them.
Freely they had received, freely they must
give. God was no respecter of persons; this
commission must be offered to all people,
The harvest was great and the laborers few.
Naoma’s husband must take a mission to
Europe. She must do the best she could in
a little rented house, with three little
mouths to fill, six little feet to shoe, and all
the etceteras thereunto belonging. No
matter. She had a light heart and a ready
hand; her husband was on duty, he would
honor his commission, and God would bless
his labors. Her duties would be made light;
they would be happy. And they were
happy, as their letters filled with affection,
confidence, and good cheer constantly testi-
tied.
	Years sped swiftly by, and sacrifice was
almost forgotten in the joys of the return.
But once enlisted, the armor must not be
laid off; sin must be combatted at home and
abroad. A mission to the New England
States came. Their neighbors did not like
their commission.
	Missouri would not be told that, if she
sinned, the hand of an avenging God would
be stretched out over her. These commis-
sioners were driven into Illinois.
	With an increased family, increased
poverty, and decreased bodily health, our
heroine was here. Her wifely confidence,
motherly devotion, and Christian resignation,
were subjects of remark and admiration for
her acquaintances. The light which they
had received, must not be hid. The com-
mission must be held up here. The world
must be reproved for sin, and warned of a
judgment to come.
	Naoma’s husband must fill another mission
among the European nations. The peaceful
trust that pervaded her bosom, made the
little log-cabin with its shake floor, in
which she and her sick children were left,
a kind of paradise to her; she could make the
rough places smooth for his sake, and the
cause they had espoused.
	Again the husband returned. He erected
a commodious dwelling, which they soon
filled with home comforts. The blessed
reunion had almost removed the traces of
anxious care that were becoming visible on
Naoma’s countenance. She thanked God
that he had enabled her, if not joyfully,
uncomplainingly, to take the spoiling of her 
goods, to endure the scoffs of friends, and
breast the storms of adversity.
	She felt that she had passed through the
furnace of affliction, and no more could be
required of woman.
	Poor Naoma, she knew not all. The
dregs of her cup were not yet drained. Her
husband—he to whom she could ever trust-
ingly confide any thoughts, and who had
ever thus trustingly confided in her, became
suddenly silent and thoughtful. His steps
became heavier and his head more bowed. If
she surprised a look of tender compassion
bent upon her, it was instantly averted. Her
heart was pained with the weight that she
could see and feel, resting upon her hus-
band’s mind; but she could not discern its
nature. She sought his confidence, he
evaded her inquiries. She sought again, he
said, “I cannot reveal to you the burden of
my thoughts to make you unhappy!”
Months rolled by. She sought his confi-
dence the third time. He repulsed her.
She tried to reason; her husband was a good
man, and therewith she ought to be content.
She would not be an exacting wife; she
would try to discipline her mind to rest
satisfied. Such a victory was easier sought
than achieved. Her unconquerable heart
would rebel; it would yearn for that recip-
rocal trust, which she felt was essential
to preserve the oneness that constituted
connubial bliss.
	Was the equilibrium of her mind, which
had been so long disturbed, never to be
restored?
	One morning in early spring, her hus-
band went to a Southern settlement to
preach. Susan Dean called; Naoma received
her kindly, even cordially, but the sadness
that pervaded the atmosphere of her person,
was sensibly felt by Susan. She said, “my
dear friend, you are not well to-day, let me
do something for you.” Naoma tried to
smile, said her ailment was only a fearful
foreboding of an undefinable something that
made her “so miserable” that she sometimes
feared the Evil One had put his finger in
her pie. But she could not eat in the
morning; they would have a cup of tea, and
then she would feel better. The water in
the polished tea kettle was soon boiled, and a
snow white napkin spread on the teaboard,
on which was placed some temptingly nice
bread, butter and plum preserves. Susan
pronounced the tea just the right flavor,
but Naoma could not eat. Susan marveled,
and bade her friend good bye. 
	Naoma opened a book, it seemed mockery;
no writer had ever felt as she felt—she
hoped not—and if not, they could have no
sympathy with her. What could she do?
she folded her arms and gave her mind a
few moments to a new train of thought.
Why had she not brought the burden of her
soul to the feet of Jesus? There she could
be understood; there she had ever found
succor, comfort, strength, as her circum-
stances had required. There she would
bring this, her great sorrow.
	She retired to a silent recess. Tears of
contrition filled her eyes, while with low
and tremulous voice, she pleaded with the
Father in the name of the Son to show her
wherein she was unworthy, that she might
repent, make a just restitution, and be
enabled to discharge the duties she owed to
herself, to her husband, family and to the
world, in a manner acceptable to God.
	A sweet voice from the Celestial Court
notified her that her petition was heard,
that the offering of her contrite heart was
accepted, and that the channel of communi-
cation was now open. On the holy commu-
nion I draw the curtain for half an hour.
	Naoma appeared in the midst of her
household with a new peace in her soul,
which spoke its own language through her
countenance. Her husband returned from
the neighboring settlement where he had
been to preach, and she met him with
smiles and tears. He took her hand carefully
in his, and asked, “what has happened to
you during my absence.” And she an-
swered, “Only that the Lord has deigned to
reveal to me the secret you sought to keep.”
They both wept. At length he said, “Naoma,
could you bear it?” she replied, “The
subject is so sacred, so solemn, that I cannot
converse upon it now!” he said, “I will
leave you for an hour, during which time
we will pray for ourselves and each other,
then peradventure, we may talk together.”
	There came an end to even “that” hour.
Her husband entered her apartment and
said, “How do you feel by this time,
Naoma?” She replied, “I cannot define my
feelings, farther than this; I know you to
be a servant of the Most High; I know that
the God of Abraham is your God; I know
He is a wise dictator; and wherein His ways
are not as my ways, I wish you to heed His
dictations, regardless of me. In spite of
all my good resolutions I formed before the
Lord, I find myself weak before you. Bear
with me, dear husband, a few months, and
I trust you will find me stronger.”
	Three months later, Naoma caressed her
fifth child. And her husband said, “can
you now kneel with me at the sacred Alter
and there, in the presence of God, Angels,
and witnesses, of your own free will and
choice give to me wives?” Naoma breathed
a little shorter, but answered unhesitatingly,
“yes, sir, and bless you, and bless them, and
thank God that I have the privilege.”
	Did Naoma still love her husband? Her
own words were that she “reverenced" him
now. 
									B.


﻿THE THREE last elected United States
Senators are accused of having bought their
seats: Bogg, of Missouri; Ingalls, of Kansas;
and Jones, of Nevada.
	“NO CAKE—no cards—no divorce,” was
appended to a Vermont marriage notice
lately. It is to be hoped the last condition
will be valid during life.
	LOCKMAN, the philosopher, was once
asked who had given him his first lesson in
wisdom. “The blind,” he replied, “who
do not move a step in advance until they
make sure of the ground with their stick.’
	CHARACTER is higher than intellect.
Thinking is the functionary. The stream
retreats to its source. A great soul will be
strong to live as well as strong to think.
Living is a total act. Thinking is a partial
act. Let the grandeur of justice shine in
his affairs. Let the beauty of affection
cheer his lowly roof. The scholar loses no
hour that the man lives.
	EYES.—The eyes of men converse as
much as their tongues, with the advantage
that the ocular dialect needs no dictionary,
but is understood the world over. When
the eyes say one thing and the tongue an-
other, a practised man relies on the language
of the first. If a man be off his centre, his
eyes show it. You can read in the eyes of
your companion whether your argument
hits him, though his tongue will not confess
it. There is a look by which a man shows
he is going to say a good thing, and a look
when he has said it. Vain and forgotten
are all the fine offers and offices of hospitality
if there be no holiday in the eye. How
many furtive inclinations are avowed by the
eye though dissembled by the lips!
							EMERSON.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿A LESSON LEARNED IN SLEEP.

Last night when wild winds shook my window pane,
And my sad heart as wildly beat within,
My dear, dead love, whom I had called in vain,
My ’raptured eyes beheld, through tear-mists dim.

He laid my tired head upon his breast
And gazed with far-off eyes beyond my ken;
“And does my darling weep when she should rest,
And long for me,” he said, “to come again?”

He clasped my willing fingers in his own,
And pressed upon my brow a holy kiss;
Then whispered low. with soft, indulgent tone
“Thou know’st not, love, what is real bliss.

"In mercy I am come to thee to-night.
To ope thine eyes, and ease thy breaking heart;
That sorrow nevermore may dim thy sight—
I tell thee why ’twas best that we should part.

“Dids’t never dream that I might turn away,
And from the paths of honor widely roam?
That thou might’st rue our happy bridal day,
And dread the hour that brought thy husband home?

“Temptation’s chains are strong and doubly tried;
The wine-cup was my master from my birth;
The fearful curse was born with me!” he cried,
“Look at that picture of our might-be hearth.”

And far into deep rolling mists and haze
The shadowy fingers pointed as he spoke;
And, as the dim clouds rifted for my gaze,
A sad, sad sc ne upon my vision broke,

A wan-faced woman sat beside a bed
Whereon a wasted infant form was laid;
I heard an eager, feeble cry for bread,
And knew for food that wretched mother prayed.

The scanty fagots which comprized the hoard,
Seemed but to mock her cry for warmth and light;
The meager furniture and empty board,
With fearful meaning dawned upon my sight.

A noble form, revealed by fire-light pale,
Lay prone, in heavy slumber near the hearth;
A crushed decanter told the fearful tale
Of fallen manhood and degraded worth.

“Could that have been thy fate and mine?” I said,
And from the fearful sight turned with a groan—
I started, for my visitant had fled;
I sat beside my window all alone.

The drear winds moaning at my window pane
Had lulled my tired senses into sleep;
I know my woeful vision was a dream
But from that moment I have ceased to weep.
										Emma.


[For the EXPONENT.
				PRAYER.
				    ___
	The person who has never tested the
power and efficacy of prayer is poor, indeed!
Where misfortune and suffering crowd upon
the stricken soul, when no human eye can
see and no human hand assuage its heavy
grief, how great the consolation and the
renewal of courage derived from prayer!
How divine the privilege of kneeling low
in solitude and pouring our griefs into an
ear which is not turned coldly away, and of
asking assistance where we have the blessed
assurance that we shall surely receive!
	The wayward may scoff, the wise and
strong in their own conceit may sneer, those
who cheat themselves into a disbelief in
God’s ability to stretch out His merciful
hand over His children on particular occa-
sions, may smile at the humility and faith
which prompt the act; but let the most
scornful of them be placed in sudden and
deathly peril, where no human power can
aid them, and faith and prayer are immedi-
atly vindicated; for the sufferer almost
unconsciously calls imploringly on the name
of God, and looks to Him for the assistance
which he knows can nowhere else be ob-
tained.
	And many come from such trials with
softened and humbled hearts; but some,
attributing their deliverance to whatever
means was made God’s instrument, still
refuse to believe because the universe was
not shaken to its centre and Nature’s har-
mony broken. But let them know that
God works always “with” and "through”
the laws which Himself has laid down, and
not “against” them.
	If the chief ruler of a nation finds himself
beset with intrigue, danger and difficulty,
the cultivation of a meek and prayerful
spirit is his best safe, gaurd. His bearing
will not be haughty and confident like that
of him who believes his own wisdom suffi-
cient for every emergency; but he will wear
a mild and quiet air as of one who leans upon
a superior strength; his hands will grasp
the difficulty just in the right place, and his
words, though few, will be as golden bands
to bind all sundered parts together.
	And yet, where is the miracle? No man
can acceptably present himself before the
Eternal until his heart is cleansed of all dark
and crooked purposes, his haughty spirit
humbled, his whole desires centered upon
what he deems his purest duty. Thus he
prepares himself to receive the blessings of
keen foresight, sound judgment and the
support and confidence of all pure minded
compeers. That very frame of mind which
is necessary to produce true prayer, is in
many cases the answer to prayer—the start-
ing point from which we may accomplish
the good we desire. In His wisdom God so
ordained it that many prayers should thus
answer themselves.
	And many a time when we lament that
our prayers are not answered, only our
shortsightedness prevents us from knowing
that they are answered even more fully and
completely than we could have imagined,
and much more for our good. Or, if actually
refused, ’tis only as a tender parent refuses
the glittering keen edged-blade for which
an inexperienced child holds up its hand
To cultivate this prayerful resigned state of
mind is the very best preparation agains
adversity, for we can believe our seeming
misfortunes to be blessings in disguise, and
generally prove them such. And prayer is
an armor fitted to all wearers.
	The child which desires the approbation
and confidence of its friends, may, through
this simple means bring itself into a state of
mind and manner which is sure to please.
	The busy mother, whose duties follow
upon each other as unintermittingly as the
changing seasons, may envelop herself in
this garb and surround her dear ones with
this atmosphere, until she will find the
wearing cares of the day reduced to less
than half their former dimensions. The
calm, peaceful, yet ardent spirit flows out
from her soul, as light diverges from the
sun, and permeates every object within the
circle of its benign influence. Not only will
her strength be renewed and her fainting 
heart revived, but her holy guiding influence
will be more widespread and enduring
than it could otherwise be.
	The maiden just planting the first elastic
steps upon the field of life, which, though
wreathed with roses, is also pierced with
thorns, may cling to this friendly hand, and
enveloped with prayer as with shadowing
wings, walk unharmed a midst the num-
berless dangers which enviorn the path of
youth and innocence.
	The youth upon the threshold of life, may
interpose it as a shield between him and all
his foes, and bear it in his breast as a faith-
ful monitor to guide him away from all evil.
	Oh, ye scoffers! try it “with pure mind
and feeling” and find yourselves nearer the
gates of heaven than you ever were before.
BEAVER
								L. L. D.


﻿THE SEX.
					-
	ONE hundred women are said, to be study- 
in law in American colleges.
	AGNES Ethel is to marry a wealthy New 
Yorker.
	THE Principal of Vassar College is Miss 
Perry; and Maria Mitchel is Professor of 
Astronomy in the same institution.
	THE piano sent to the future Empress of 
China is of gold and laquer, keys of mother- 
of-pearl, and plays itself like a music-box.
	TWO daughters of the Earl of Portsmouth 
have taken certificates at the London uni- 
versity, in connection with the Cambridge
local examinations.
	MISS Mary Nolan, of the St. Louis “Cen-
tral Magazine,” has applied for a patent for
a portable reservoir, of her invention, which
is to be used in preventing large fires.
	Marie Antoinette’s work-table has been
placed in the Louvre. The Empress Eugenie
bought it at a sale some years ago for $8,600,
and it was fortunately saved from the Tuil-
Ieries before the fire.
	MISS Eliza Lyman has Contracted to fur-
nish the lumber for all the water-tanks and
depot buildings of a new railroad to be built
in Vermont, and is going to superintend the
work herself.
	THE little coquettish curls or frizzes, now	
so commonly employed to adorn the brows 
of ladies were much worn by the belles of
the last century, and were called heart-	
breakers.
	IT is a singular fact that many ladies who
know how to preserve everything else, can’t 
preserve their tempers. Yet it may easily 
be done on the self-sealing principle. It is 
only to “keep the mouth of the vessel tightly	
closed.”
	MISS Ransom of Cleveland, Ohio, an artist 
of merit, who painted the first picture over 
bought by the government of a woman, has
fiuished a full-length portrait of General	
Thomas, which is spoken of as a work of 
great merit.
	EMILY Faithfull’s face, as described by a 
friend; “A pair of dark and very piercing
eyes over hung by a massive forehead and
brow, nose somewhat masculine, and mouth
large, firm, and backed by a set of good
teeth, make a face in which manly intellect
is intimately blended with manly firmness.”
	IN Strasburg, wearing the French tri- 
color having been forbidden by the Germans, 
the French ladies walk the streets by threes,
one dressed in red, the next in white, and
a third in blue. Engravings of these groups 
of fair promenaders, passing puzzled and
angry Prussians, are conspicuous in the
windows of the French print shops.	
	MRS. Virginia T. Minor has brought suit
in St. Louis, against the registration officer,
for refusing to place her name on the voting
lists. Mrs. Minor is the wife of Francis
Minor, Clerk of the supreme Court of
Missouri, who is determined to carry the
case to the United States Supreme Court,
claiming that women are entitled to the right
of suffrage under the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.
	It is related that in Gaylordsville, in Fair-
field county, Connecticut, there resides an
old lady who is so deaf that a large bell
rung immediately by her ear, cannot be
heard by her. Despite this absolute deaf-
ness, she will go to church, listen to a
lengthy sermon and then return home and
be able to repeat the discourse word for
word. Her entire knowledge of the sermon
being gained from the motion of the speaker’s	
lips.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.
	To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,either by the yard or piece.
					H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
									DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

				JOHNSON'S

		HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!
	Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.
	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.
	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.
	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.
	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea, 
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents. 
	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at
	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,
Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them. 
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills  expense o
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.
From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
							St. George, Utah.

				NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price,  $2 50		-	-  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $1		-	-	-	-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies' 
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES. 

	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children's FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	An ounce of practice is better than a pound
of theory.
	HE who sows courtesy reaps friendship,
and he who plants kindness gathers love.
	HE who never sacrificed a present to a future
good, or a personal to a general one, can
speak of happiness only as the blind do of
color.
	TRUE bravery is sedate and inoffensive;
if it refuses to submit to insults, it offers
none; it begins no disputes; enters no need-
less quarrels; it is above the little trouble-
some ambition to be distinguished every
moment; it bears in silence and replies with
modesty, fearing no enemy and making
none; and it is as much ashamed of insolence
as cowardice.
	TO live long—eat and drink and be com-
fortable. Never go to excess, and always be
hopeful. Let the world wag as it will, be hap-
py. If it goes well, laugh; if it goes ill, never
cry, for that makes it no better. Be cheerful,
contented, simple in habits, active in pur-
suits, wish well to man and have faith in
God. Then shall your years stretch out like
a summer’s day, and your youth shall be
perpetual.

		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	     A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.
	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? “It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"
	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.
	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dross, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound 
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.
	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.
	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.
	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year,      $2.00	  1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months,   9.00
	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine. 

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah. 

FURNISH YOUR HOMES. 

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,

	At No 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.


Woman's Exponent.

