VOL. I. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1872.		NO. 3.


﻿NEWS AND VIEWS.
		    
  DIED at Geneva—Indirect Damages.
  SENSATIONAL preaching continues fashion-
able and attractive.
  THE Hyers sisters led the colored chorus
in the Boston Jubilee.
  MORAL Massachusetts has an average of
11,000 prisoners always on hand.
  LONDON is said to have 2,000 “Christian
Jews.” They keep store open on Sundays.
  THE “Big Jamboree” is the Washington
style of speaking of the Boston Jubilee. Is
Washington jealous?
  CONVICTS in Detroit write dime novels,
which is little better business than they
were engaged in before.
  POLITICAL corruption is being exposed to
the scorching light of critical exposure, which
reveals a large amount of previously con-
cealed rotteness.
  GEORGE SAND is now at work upon a
“Life of Christ.” Novel readers and lovers
of romance will probably learn something
new of the Scriptures now.
  THE BAND of the British Grenadier
Guards warmly welcomed to Boston on the
anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, is
one of the events of the times too notable to
be overlooked.
  IN LONDON alone, since last August, there
has been nearly 10,000 deaths by small-pox.
Nor has that dreadful disease been confined
to England and the United States, but has
ravaged Europe as well. Job’s complaint is
becoming widely known.
  A CHANGE in-the Utah Federal officials,
it is intimated, is likely to be made after
the November elections. Blessings of such
magnitude should be carefully announced
in advance to prepare the public for receiv-
ing them with a moderate degree of enthu-
siasm.
  A FEW prominent Free Traders reject Dr.
Greeley, because of his protection views,
and having hammered together a platform
of the old materials have set up candidates
thereon, the principal difficulty about the
matter being that the candidates decline to
accept.
  ONE HALF of the servant girls in the city of
Philadelphia are said to be drunkards. If
true, give them a chance to become honest
wives and keepers of their own houses, in-
stead of having to keep irregular hours wait-
ing on fashionable mistresses, and that evil,
like many others, may disappear.
  ON THE 9th inst. the National Democratic
Convention will meet in Baltimore, and the
indications are strong that it will make no
nominations, but endorse those made at
Cincinnati. In this matter the Democratic
leaders have been led by the rank and file of
the party which is evidently tired of follow-
ing the same men to defeat through years
coming on years.
  WHAT a terrible commentary is that on
the manner in which justice is administered
in New York, conveyed in the following
from a paper published in that city? “Three
hundred and fifty murders last year, and but
one man suffering the extreme penalty of

the law. He, poor Jack Reynolds, half-
witted, without money or friends, was hung
as an awful example!”
  A NEW fire-arm of terribly destructive
power, and called the “Magazine rifle,” is
announced as the latest addition to life-
destroying inventions. Invented by Captain
Meigs, of Lowell, Massachusetts, weighing
only half a pound more than the regular
Springfield rifle, it is capable of discharging
fifty bullets in fifty seconds; and promises to
be as effective in reducing the population as
railroad accidents or steamboat explosions.
  ANOTHER PRESIDENTIAL ticket, and no-
body injured! Groesbeck, of Ohio, and
Olmsted, of New York, were nominated by
a small band of Free-Traders on the 21st ult.
The latter declined the honor immediately;
the former, with an evident hankering after
the post of standard-bearer, intimated that
the Democratic convention at Baltimore
must speak before he would listen. The
nominating body was. respectable but not
strong enough.	
  TWO TERRIBLE disasters have occurred on
this continent since the last issue of the
EXPONENT. A steamboat explosion on the
Mississippi river hurled thirty-five human
beings into eternity; and a railroad accident
in Canada bruised, battered and butchered
sixty-five more, of whom over thirty died,
most of them in horrible agony. A weak
boiler, or a defective rail, and nobody to
blame, is the usual verdict; while death in
horrid form mocks at the advances of science
as recklessness disregards or defies them.
  PUBLISHED dispatches last week accused
Mrs. Emily Pitts Stevens of drawing a pistol
on a gentleman at an anti-Woman’s Suffrage
meeting in San Francisco; and subsequently
stated that she had published a card deny-
ing the allegation. While regretting that
the agitation and discussion of so important
a subject is not conducted with less acrimo-
ny and more courteous good feeling on both
sides, we await a more lengthened statement
of the affair in the next number of the
“Pioneer,” of which Mrs. Stevens is editor,
before accepting as correct that which has
been telegraphed concerning it.
  TO TEMPT a woman to evil and then seek
a divorce because she has fallen before the
temptation, has been the cowardly and
criminal course pursued by more husbands
than court records have shown. But a late
decision on the matter will mar its future
efficacy. A suit for divorce was recently
tried in London before Lord Penzance, when
the woman showed that she had been led
into evil through the plots of an agent of
her husband. Lord Penzance ruled that the
husband was responsible for the acts of his
agent, and refused the divorce. A wise and
upright Judge!
  TENNIE C. CLAFLIN has gained the
coveted position, and is now a full-blown
Colonel. She was elected to that position by
a colored regiment of New York. There
have been women wno have led armed men
to conflict and victory, as did Boadicea the
ancient Britons and Joan of Arc the dis-
pirited French; but they were moved to ac-
tion by other impulses than a morbid passion
for notoriety. Tennie C. Claflin is a sad
spectacle of a talented woman setting mod-

esty, purity of feeling, and womanly grace
at defiance, that she may secure the ap-
plause of the reckless and the indorsement
of those who set proper restrictions at defi-
ance.
  THE practical character of the present ago
is fatal to many ancient and venerable theo-
ries. Rev. James R. Dunne, of Boston, who
has been traveling in Palestine announces
that the Dead Sea is not the sad, sluggish
sheet of water it has been represented. Its
waters though heavy and bitter are clear
and rippling, its wavelets sparkle on the
beach, and its “shores are green with shrub-
bery and bright with flowers.” So too the
idea that Great Salt Lake is untenanted with
life is proved a fallacious illusion. A mem-
ber of Professor Hayden’s scientific explor-
ing expedition announces that it teems with
animal life.  The Dead Sea of the cast, and
its counterpart in the west, it appears, have
both been misrepresented.
  THE JESUITS have been deprived of all
rights of citizenship in Prussia by recent
statutory enactment. There is a bitter strag-
gle going on in Germany between church
and state, the government proving itself the
stronger by the passage of this statute.
Bismarck is determined that no ecclesiasti-
cal authority shall successfully lift itself
against the secular government, and in this
he is sustained by the “Old Catholic” party
which does not accept the dogma of infalli-
bility. He sees that the Jesuits are insinu-
ating and aggressive, yet he gives them
strength by the very act which deprives
them of citizenship; for when men are thus
punished for simply belonging to a religious
order, sympathy is evoked in their behalf
and their logic becomes irresistable when
their opponents thus admit their inability
to meet it by counter-argument.
  THE following communication was re-
ceived and read at the National Republican
Convention on June 6th, as appears by the
minutes of that day’s proceedings: No. 333
Walnut street, 6th month, 5th, 1872.—Dear
Friend: I am assured that over sixty of the
ablest women of the land are ready to take
the field for the Republican party If the Con-
vention now in session will adopt some plank
that will even allow them this opportunity
as honest, serious workers for human rights.
Below you will find a copy of the plank,
which, if adopted; will be the occasion of an
enthusiasm only equalled by that of 1856 for
Fremont.		Very respectfully,
					E. M. DAVIS.
To Robert Purvis, Delegate to the Republi-
  can Convention.
  Headquarters Woman’s Suffrage Dele-
gates, No. 333 Walnut street, Philadelphia,
June 5th, 1872.—To the National Republi-
can Convention—Gentlemen: In behalf of
the women of this nation, one-half the entire
people, I ask you to put a plank in your
platform that shall assert the duty of the
National Government to protect women citi-
zens in the exercise of their right to vote,
and thereby make it possible for women
possessed of true self-respect to advocate the
claims of the Republican party to the suf-
frages of the people.
  Respectfully,   	SUSAN B. ANTOHNY.
President National Woman’s Suffrage Asso-'
clation.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				
			WHAT IS IT?
				
	It is an institution formed to bless
	The poor, the widow, and the fatherless;
	To clothe the naked and the hungry feed,
	And, in the holy paths of virtue, lead;

	To seek where anguish, grief and sorrow are,
	And light the torch of hope eternal, there;
	To prove the strength of consolation’s art.
	By breathing comfort to the mourning heart;

	To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where
	Had mis’ry dwells, and wake up pleasure there;
	With open heart t’ extend the friendly hand;
	To hail the stranger from a distant land;

	To stamp a with’ring impress on each move
	That virtue’s noble self would disapprove;
	To put the tattler’s coinage, scandal, down,
	And make corruption feel its scathing frown;

	To give instruction where instruction’s voice
	Will guide the feet and make the soul rejoice;
	To turn the wayward from their recklessness,
	And aid them in the path of happiness.

	- It is an order fitted and designed
	To cultivate and elevate the mind;
	To seek the needy in their lone abode,
	Supply their wants, and lead them up to God.
										E.R.S.


F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			
  THE Female Relief Society of the Six-
teenth Ward of this city, held its annual
meeting on June 15th, in the Ward school
house; and the following summary of the
minutes will be found interesting:
  After singing the second hymn, Mrs. Z.
D.  YOUNG made remarks: “Obedience is
better than sacrifice, and to hearken than
the fat of rams.” I feel my inability to in-
struct; yet, we are all dependant on one
Father. Although, according to the flesh,
we have different parents, brothers and
sisters, kindred ties and associations, by
which we are linked together here; yet, in
the grand chain of the Eternities we all be-
long to one family, and all look to the same
great God for aid and comfort. If there ever
was a time when we should be faithful,
watchful, and careful, it is now. Mothers,
look after your daughters; teach them to be
modest, industrious, and virtuous; to honor,
with all the other principles pertaining to
the Priesthood of God, the law of celestial
marriage, which is for the redemption and
salvation of many. I pray God to bless you,
my sisters, both young and aged; and help
us all to keep the faith.
   ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, being present
by invitation, was requested to address the
meeting. A very brief synopsis of his re-
marks is contained in the following: I may
say,  my sisters, I hardly expected to be
here I look upon these Societies and their
work as things of great importance; and some-
times wonder why so long a time elapsed after
the break-up at Nauvoo, before a reorganiza-
tion was made. I look at it as being just as
essential as any other organization of the
Priesthood. Upon mothers in Israel devolve
great responsibilities. To them belongs the
care of their children; to nourish, feed, dress
and instruct; and in a great measure to edu-
cate. Upon you, mothers, depend the train-
ing of the future generation. You form their
minds, thoughts, aspirations. I know by
experience you can destroy or make. You
can tell what a mother is when you see her
children at play. In Cache valley, there was
a number of little girls playing keeping-
house and making mud-butter. One was
playing mother and dictating. When there
was a nice, large, roll of butter made, she
laid it on one side, and said, “Now, that is
to go to the Tithing Office, it is better than
the rest.” That told a great story for the
little girl's mother. The child showed her
teaching. If children treat each other kindly

and courteously, it is the spirit that is in-
stilled into their hearts by their mothers at
home. We often hear children speak in a
cross, commanding way. What does that
argue? That it is the way the mother does.
The father is away, the mother at home,
where she may teach her children to be
mild and loving, honest, gentle and good.
Mothers have a better chance to lead their
children in the proper way than the fathers.
They have opportunities afforded for cutiva-
ting the blessings of faith. I love to hear a
woman pray. They can approach nearer to
the Lord than men can, as a general thing;
or my mother did. I could not do as my
mother could. These societies are not only
calculated for a means of relieving the wants
of the poor, comforting the afflicted etc., but
to correct and improve yourselves and each
other.
  Much more valuable instruction was given
by Elder Smith and others, followed by sing-
ing and prayer after which the meeting ad-
journed.
  The Society financially is in a sound con-
dition, as we note by the financial report
presented by the Secretary, Presendia L.
Kimball. It shows that during the four
years $727.65 was received in cash, mer-
chandise and produce, of which $201.86 was
disbursed, leaving $527.79 in the treasury
at date of report. Among the disbursements
for the fiscal year ending June 15th, 1872,
was one item of $50 donated to assist the
poor to immigrate; and other items for
clothing bestowed upon those who needed
it.
  We are indebted to Mrs. Mary A. Maughan,
of Logan, Cache county, for the following
interesting report:
  “The anniversary meeting of the Female
Relief Society was held in the Logan Hall
May 18th, Mrs. M. A. Maughan, President
of the Society, presiding. There was a good
attendance of the members, but in conse-
quence of sickness in the family of the Secre-
tary, the financial report was not read.
  Spirited and interesting remarks were
made by Bishop W. B. Preston, and Elder
Moses Thatcher on the duties of mothers in
rearing and educating their sons to become
good and wise men in the Kingdom of God;
and the daughters to acquire the accomplish-
ments necessary to enable them to become
useful as helpers in the great work which is
before us; and instructing them how to be-
come ornaments in society. They also spoke
in commendation of the great good that laid
been accomplished by the F. R. Society of
this place; and felt to encourage and bless
us in our efforts to relieve the needy.
  The meeting was then adjourned until
the monthly meeting of the Society, which
was held on the first Monday in June, when
the financial report was presented, showing
that since the organization of the Society
$1,453.02 had been gathered by donations,
profits on labor, etc., of which a great
amount had been disbursed to the poor; and
for other charitable purposes, in helping to
sustain the Kingdom; leaving a balance in
the Treasury. It is the purpose of the So-
ciety as fast as possible to make the adorn-
ment of their persons the workmanship of
their own hands.
   I heartily congratulate you on the able
manner in which your little paper is
gotten up, wish you great success, and can
assure you that your paper, will be warmly
welcomed and highly appreciated by the
ladies of Logan.”
  Accompanying the report nnsa handsome
subscription list.
				
MRS. M. A. BOICE and Mrs. Emily Hep-

worth, President and Secretary of the F. R.
Society at Oxford, Cache county, kindly
forward a report of their little Society,
which shows that although few in numbers,
they take an active interest in the promo-
tion of good, relieving the wants of the des-
titute among them; helping to immigrate
the poor from other countries, to send mis-
sionaries abroad to preach the gospel, to
build railroads, etc. A meeting was held
on June 16th, at which Bishop Lake and
others made appropriate and interesting, re-
marks.
   They also send congratulations on the
favorable debut of the EXPONENT.


﻿A SENSIBLE WOMAN.
			
  A New England girl twenty-seven years
of age, who was disappointed in a love affair
in early life, and had afterwards steadily re-
fused the least attention from any man, sur-
prised her friends a short time ago by get-
ting married.
  Being an only child at the death of her
parents, which took place some five years
ago, she was left sole inheritor and manager
of a handsome fortune. She asked no aid
from anyone, but with two old and trusty
servants, a gardener and housekeeper, she
lived on quietly in her own home, and in a
highly creditable manner conducted her own
affairs. Soon after entering upon this new
stage of life, she loaned quite a large sum of
money to a young merchant, then almost in-
solvent.  He struggled bravely to redeem
his pledges, and very much care-worn, he
at last became almost discouraged and would
have yielded to bankruptcy, he says, had it
not been for his frequent visits to his fair
creditor and the cheering advice she always
gave him. At last, after having vainly
striven for more than four years to rise
above his misfortunes, he relinquished all
hope. The first one he called upon, to make
this anounccment, was his lady creditor.
Old Sharkey, the gardener, witnessed their
interview; for she never allowed both her
servants to withdraw when a gentleman
was present.
   She still tried to encourage the merchant
as before, but could not succeed this time;
he was too far gone. She offered him more
money, which he refused to take; also . to
forgive the debt and the interest then due on
it, which was likewise manfully declined, in
part, with promises for some future .time
when all would be refunded.
  After he had taken his leave of the lady,
she said to the gardener, “Call him back,’
Sharkey, I’ve concluded to .become his
wife.”
  “His wife!” repeated Sharkey, “why, he
has never said anything of the kind . to
you!”‘		-	’
   “I know it,” replied the lady, “and-that's
the reason I like him. He looks love at me
all the time, but never ventures to speak;
and he has proved himself honest, grateful
and noble. Call him back, Sharkey, and
then go and ask the parson to step over here
a few minutes.”
  Sharkey obeyed, the parson came, and
the wedding took place. The merchant’s
debts are all paid up, and he and his heroic
bride live very happily in their peaceful
and beautiful home.
   Women are not all fools, are they?


﻿A San Francisco journal, states that more
than half that city is given up to demoraliz-
ing practices, more ruinous to the souls and
bodies of the unfortunate than is any system
of savagery among the wild men of the
desert.  We do not dispute the sad state-
ment.  But what an atmosphere to live in!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LET ME THINK THUS.
				
Let me not think that the world is all selfishness,
  Care’ess and grim and of dark, sombre hue;
Let me believe there are hearts still affectionate,
  Still undeceiving, unsordid and true.
Though often death’s undisputed authority,
  Claims the most gifted, the freest from guile,
Yet their dear spirits still make earth their dwelling
	place:
  Let me think thus, and he happy the while.
Let me not think that our God, unremittingly,
  Leads us poor mortals in ignorance here,
Thirsting for knowledge, expecting and wondering:
  One day with light He'll envelope our sphere.
No more dark shadows of doubt and disparagement;
   All will be sunshine, Jehovah’s glad smile;
Freely we’ll drink at the Fount of Intelligence:
  Let me think thus, and be happy the while
									L L


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
			
  TO COLOR SLATE COLOR.—Boil yellow
oak bark in an iron kettle till the strength is
extracted. Take out the bark, then add a
very little copperas, and you have a pretty
color with no expense.
  SCALLOPED CHICKEN. — Mince chicken
with lean ham and a little pepper mixed, in
scallop shells or a flat dish, add two large
spoonfuls of cream, cover with crumbs, set
before the fire to brown, with a little butter
on top.
   APPLE FLOAT. —One pint of stewed ap-
ples ;  when cold, sweeten and flavor to
taste. Just as you want to send to table,
add the beaten whites of four eggs, lightly
stirred into it.  With cream this makes a
nice dessert.
   BATH, CAKES.—Mix well together a quar-
ter of a pound of butter, half a pound of flour,
two large eggs, and a tablespoonful of yeast;
set the mixture before the fire to rise, and
when this has been effected, add two ounces
of finely powdered sugar, and half an ounce
of carraways. Roll the paste out into little
cakes; bake them on tins.
   DOLPETTES OF COLD MEAT.—Prepare the
meat as for a hash—or some hashed meat
that has become cold will answer the pur-
pose—add to it some bread-crumbs, enough
to stiffen the consistency, mix it together
with the yolk of eggs, shape it into small
balls, dip them into egg, roll them in bread-
crumbs and grated cheese, and fry them
brown. Glaze them, or serve them with
tomato sauce.
   THE FOLLOWING dressing for salad is very
much liked by some, but does not suit the
taste of others. It is also said to be excel-
lent over sliced tomatoes in the Summer.
Take the yolk of one fresh egg and mix with
it two tablespoonfuls of olive oil very slowly;
add one and one-half spoonfuls of mustard,
three spoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and
last of all two spoonfuls of vinegar. Beat
the white of the egg to a stiff froth and
lightly stir in.
   DUCHESSES.—-Take half a dozen potatoes,
boil them, pass them through a sieve, and
work into them in a bowl one gill of cream
and the yolks of three eggs; add pepper, salt,
and nutmeg to taste, and some parsley chop-
ped fine. When they are well mixed and
smooth, take them up by tablespoonfuls, roll
each in a ball, flatten it, and flour it slightly;
lay them all in a sauce pan with plenty of
butter melted, and cook them slowly ; turn
them over when one side is done, and serve
hot as soon as both sides are colored.
  OYSTER PIE.—Cover a.well-buttered deep
plate or tin—a soup plate answers perfectly
—with puff paste ; lay an extra layer around
the edge of the plate, and bake it very
nearly enough. That done, fill the pie with
oysters, seasoning with nutmeg, pepper, salt
[next column]
and butter; dust in a little flour amongst
them, and cover all with a thin puff paste.
Bake quickly ; when the top crust is done
the oysters will be done also. If to be  eaten
cold, let it cool untouched, in the plate or
pan. It is quite as good in this way as hot,
and is excellent for picnics or for traveling.
  MISS BEECHER has remarked that there
is nothing which so distinctly marks the
difference between weak and strong minds
as whether they control circumstances or
circumstances control them. And Mrs.
Abell says that with many well meaning
women, eating, drinking, clothing, cleanli-
ness and order of a household constitute the
sum total of all life ; while the moral, the
social and intellectual interests are wholly
neglected. But, with assistance suitable to
the labor, a proper improvement of time
and wise arrangement of plans, these best
and most exalted duties need not be slight-
ed, and will not unless an undue importance
is attached to the grosser and lower pleas-
ures of the appetite and personal adornment.
There are some so rigid in their adherence
to a system that they never allow anything
to interfere with it. Even the sacred claims
of friendship and hospitality must be sacri-
ficed to "washing on Monday ;" and a cold
and frigid reception is often given to a friend
whose visit might interfere with the iron-
ing on the succeeding day.
  But a true, right-hearted woman will not
take upon her one or two virtues only, but
will in kindness embrace them all, reflecting
always that “ it is not all of life to live.”


﻿WHY I DO NOT CALL.
			
Dear “Exponent:”
   Having a little explanation to make to a
couple of my friends, and thinking it might
prove rather a good hint to some others, I
would like to offer the same through your
columns, if not objectionable ; and will en-
deavor to be very brief and explicit.
  A short time ago, Miss Alice---(a friend
who was and is very dear to me) and myself
were walking along the street together and
chatting in a lively manner, when suddenly
Alice stopped short and said in a low tone,
“Hush, let’s walk more slowly!”
  “ Why ?” I asked, and she answered,
“ Because there’s Mrs. K. crossing the street
and I do not wish to meet her, for I don’t
like her, and she always makes so much of
me.”
   We walked slowly, but Mrs. K. saw Alice
and waited at the corner to speak to her. I
was a little surprised at Alice’s remark, for
I had got it into my head that she was so
good and charitable that she never allowed
herself to dislike anyone. I was still more
surprised presently.  As we came up Mrs.
K. held out her hand with a smile ; Alice
smiled back again, warmly clasped the prof-
fered hand, and said, as if delighted at the
meeting, “ How do you do ? I haven’t seen
you for such a long time !”
    “ I know it,” said Mrs. K. “ Why don’t
you come over and see me?”
   Alice replied, “Simply because I can’t
find time to go anywhere; but you must
come and see me, won’t you ? Do come !”
   Mrs. K. said she would, and we passed on.
  “That’s the way she talks to folks she
don’t like !” I said to myself, “That’s just
the way she talks to me!”
  Yes, when she left me, it was with an af-
fectionate and persuasive injucntion that I
should come very soon to see her. She al-
ways did so.
   The more I reflected on it the more it
seemed to me that if. my dear, loving little 
[end of column]
friend could speak as she did about Mrs. K.,
and then meet her so cordially, and say such
pleasant things to her, she might do the
same by me. I don’t know but she means
it all when she says “come and see me ! now
do !” in such emphatic tones; but I’m afraid
she does not; so I have not been to see her
lately.  She has been anxious to know why.
I have kept it to myself till now, not telling
even my mother; but if Alice reads this she
will be in doubt no longer as to why I did’nt
call.
  The other part.of my explanation is for 
the benefit of Mrs. R. (an elderly lady) in
particular; and to all who may need a like
hint in general. Mrs. R. is such a good-na-
tured, affable, kind-hearted woman, that it
always did me good to call on her. All for-
mality was laid aside, and I could be so much
at home in her house, and always felt that I
was welcome there ; for her words were kind
and motherly, just such as put one at ease,
because they carry with them the assurance
that the speaker means what she says.
  I went there one day, not many minutes
before dinner time, feeling very weary and
faint, having taken a long walk, and having
still a longer one to take. Mrs. R. was par-
ticularly glad to see me and wanted to know
why I had delayed calling so long. I sat
down, threw my hat on to the center table,
and took up the album.
   “O ! ma, here comes mother N.,” called
out Mrs. R.’s little daughter.
  “Well I won’t have any mother N. here
to-day ! I’ve had enough of her lately, and
can’t put up with her any more !” said Mrs.
R. with much earnestness, and I could see
she meant what she said, or thought I could,
though I had never before seen her so
moved.
  Mother N. appeared at the door. “How
do you do, mother N. ? Sit down, dinner
will soon be ready ; how tired you look !”
   How surprised I was ! Mrs. R. had re-
gained her usual cordial manner and pleas-
ant tone, and greeted mother N. the same as
she had greeted me.	
   I turned the leaves of the album over in a
hurry, and arose with hat in hand just as
dinner was announced.
  “You’re not going?”
  “ Yes, I must !”
  “ Oh, not before dinner; it’s all ready.”
  “ But I must hurry; mother will won-
der—”
  “You ! O, now!”
  “ Good bye.” And I haven’t called on
Mrs. R. since, though I often meet her and
she professes to feel real bad because I do
not come and see her. Of course as  can-
not tell whether she means it or not, I do
not like to be suspicious, yet have no wish
to be so credulous as to be silly.
							FRANK.
   The explanation seems to be plain enough
Miss Alice and Mrs. R. will doubtless under-
stand it.—[ED. EXPONENT.


It has been found that the clothes fitted
to  new recruits in the English army soon
become too small across the chest, owing, it
is stated, to the increased development given
by gymnastic and military exercises. It is
very probable that the same result is pro-
duced upon fashionable .ladies’ brains, by
the wonderful exercises they undergo upon
desultory subjects. Many of their hats are
unbecomingly small.


﻿Professor Goltz, of Konigsberg, in his ex-
periments upon the nervous centre of frogs,
finds that if you take out the brain, the
creature will croak as if pleased. Frogs
must be as easily pleased as some men.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
___________________________________________
	               	L. L. GREENE, Editor.
___________________________________________

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman's Exponent, 
									Salt Lake City, Utah. 
________________________________________________________________

			SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	It is reported that Russia contemplates
raising a new loan of £10,000,000......A two
story hotel, with a French roof, to accommo-
date two hundred guests, is projected at the
summit of Mount Washington......Ole Bull
thinks that by proper culture, Leaven-
worth will produce a violinist second to none,
in the person of Miss Ella Frew....A stone
was recently quarried on Lake Superior that
is 110 feet long and 8 1/2 feet thick......Fields
of corn, potatoes and other farm produce,
and the buds on fruit trees, were completely
destroyed in Los Angeles and neighboring
vicinity, by April frosts......Many of the
prizes in the Boston high school are taken
by girls...The Marble Hill (Mo.) “True
Democrat,” has for its motto, “A Red-hot
Democratic Family Newspaper.”.....The num-
ber of Republicans in the country is esti-
mated in round figures at 3,300,000; of Dem-
ocrats 3,000,000......In the iron furnace of
York, Pennsylvania, a short time since, the
flywheel, while in motion, burst asunder and
flew in all directions, killing three men and
leaving the mill in ruins......Alphonzo Ad-
hemer predicts another deluge, A. D. 7253.
......The Nevada county, (Cal.) Angora goat
company now have over 500 goats of that
breed......The Prussian Minister of War has
issued a decree for the organization of a
military corps of aeronauts......The commer-
cial writers say that 1872 will be distin-
guished for its immense trade......Eddy-'
ville, Ky., with a population of eight hun-
dred, had, lately, one hundred cases of
measels......A grandson of Daniel O’Connell,
is lecturing in Pennsylvania on the “War-
riors and Bards of Ireland”......The eight
hour movement in San Francisco is said to
be assuming business-like and solid propor-
tions......A tower, 100 feet high, is to be
erected and surmounted with a statue of
Miles Standish, at Duxbury, Mass......In
Alabama the circulation of the New York
“Tribune” is said to have increased fifty
per cent. since the nomination of Greeley.
......The San Francisco “Pioneer,” of June
13th, contains the platform of the Equal
Rights party......The Scandinavian colony,
another Union Pacific achievement which
was started last year, is said to be already a
success......There are ten female superin-
tendents in Kansas......One of the women
in the house of the Good Shepherd, St.
Louis, is a carpenter and shoemaker......
Clark, the balloonist, who fell from a balloon
at Memphis, died from the effects, less than
a week afterward......Prince Bismcrck is go-
ing to the Isle of Wight......The Emperor
William, of Germany, is said to be gradually
sinking into the grave.....The Bairds, who
stand at the head of the iron masters in
Scotland, make as clear profit annually $2,-
500,000......Nilsson sketches landscapes
nicely......Over ten million pairs of shoes
were manufactured in Lynn, Massachusetts,
last year......Myriads of locusts are appear-
ing in the western portion of North Caro-
lina......Pope Pius IX is eighty years old......
The Gould and Curry shaft, in Nevada, has
attained a depth of 1,821 feet, the deepest
on this coast......It is estimated that the sur-
plus wheat crop for exportation, in Califor-
nia, this year, will reach 600,000 tons......
Thiers was a printer’s “devil” in 1825, and
is still bothering the editors......Hon. Chas.
Buckalew, nominated by the Democrats for
Governor of Pennsylvania, is said to be op-
posed to the nomination of Greeley at Balti-
more......Iowa farmers this year, have to
contend with wire worms, cut worms, grub
worms, army worms, chintz bugs and Hes-
sian flies......The Czar of Russia, it is re-
ported, was cool in his demeanor toward
[end of column; start of new column]
Lieut. Fred. Grant, on the occasion of the
latter’s recent visit to Moscow......The vicini-
ty of Prague, in Bohemia, has been visited
by a great flood, involving an appalling de-
struction of life and property........ A London
telegram announces that so far from the Per-
sian famine being over, it is even now worse
than ever......Kaiser William is ready to
deliver his decision on the San Juan bound-
ary question as soon as requested......Cana-
da has abolished the duty on tea and coffee,
except when imported from the United
States......Under the treaty giving Germany
control of the Luxembourg railway, that
power stipulates that it will never use the
roads for the transportation of war munitions,
except in time of peace......The boat with
which the Cambridge crew so badly beat the
Atlantas has been carefully laid away in the
Crystal Palace.....Thiers’ demeanor during
the debate on the French Army bill, greatly
irritated members of all parties in the As-
sembly. Some of the deputies charge him
openly with all the arrogance of the first
Napoleon....Religious out-door services are
to be held in Franklin Square, New York,
Sabbath afternoons. Rev. Stephen H. Tyng,
Jr., has volunteered his services......The
population of Great Britain is placed at 31,-
000,000; that of France at 37,000,000; and
that of Russia as high as 70,000,000......Prof.
Wise proposes to start from Boston, on the
Fourth of July, for a trans-Atlantic balloon
voyage......A file of the London “Times” is
said to be worth not less than £3,000......
Half the depositors in the Massachusetts sav-
ings banks are women......Red Cloud stated
his theory for the settlement of the Indian
question in a very few words, in Cooper In-
stitute. He said, “I can protect the western
country myself!” (Applause, and war-
whoops!)


THE "ENSLAVED" WOMEN OF UTAH.
				______

	Much lachrymose and silly sentimentality
has been uttered and published relative to the
"enslaved" condition of the women of Utah. It
dates back to before the time that Buchanan
sent an army and a Governor here to inflict
punishment for the distruction of court records
that are still intact, and to free the "oppressed
women" who were held in "servile bondage"
by their "male-tyrants." That Governor came
and found the records untouched. Issued
his proclamation offering protection to the
"enslaved women" of the Territory, yet they
neglected to avail themselves of his aid, though
it had a strong military force to give it effect.-
Years passed, and still the cry was raised that
these poor women were trammeled and held in
bonds; and the necessity of extending the elec-
tive franchise to them above all the sisterhood
of the United States was loudly urged. Pos-
sessed of that weapon with which to fight their
oppressors at the polls, it was held that a won-
derful revolution would be speedily manifested
in Utah; for were not the women disgusted with
their condition, desirous of fleeing from their
husbands, fathers and brothers, and eager to 
adopt the fashionable follies, vices, and wicked-
bess wich "adorn" the civilization of the 
century!
	The right of suffrage because theirs, not 
through the efforts of these purely philanthropic
souls who were so eager for their emancipation,
but by the act of the representatives of the "ty-
rants," in legislative body assembled; and still
the ardent natures of those zealous individuals
who were so anxious to "befriend" the women
of Utah were not satisfied. They became as
anxious to have deprived of the elective
franchise as they previously had been that it 
might be bestowed upon us. As the gubernatorial
proclamation referred to had been neglected by
the women to whom it was addressed, so their
votes were cast with and for the men whom in
long years of trial they had proved and found
worthy. And when in February 1870, they
met in mass conventions all over the Territory, 
before the right to vote had been conferred upon
them, the voice of nearly twenty thousand wo-
men-wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of
these "tyrants"-was a united protest against
the calumnies of years heaped upon the men of
Utah, whom they honored and in whom they
had confidence. 
	Now the manner of attack has changed, but
the object is the same; the sentimentality is not
so lachrymose, yet the venom accompanying it
is as malignant as ever. The women of Utah
having destroyed the force of the previous
charges made, are themselves attacked, their
veracity impugned, and their honesty of purpose 
questioned. A few busy-bodies, by means dis-
reputable because dishonorable, have brought
themselves before the attention of the country
as representing the women of this Territory, 
and have published statements which will not 
bear the scrutiny of investigation. Their prin-
ciples are repudiated by nineteen-twentieths of
the women of Utah, while their alleged facts
are exaggerations, misconceptions, and direct
mistatements. Yet when the evidence of their
disingenuousness are published, they seek to
shelter themselves veracity, and claim that they, only,
of all the women of Utah, are to be believed.
	We have lived in Utah a number of years,
have had ample opportunity of understanding 
the situation here, have participated in this 
"slavery," have exercised the franchise being
legally authorized to do so, and are better in-
formed on the views, feelings and sentiments of
our sisterhood in this Territory than those who
eagerly parade their sentimentality before the 
country. With the knowledge thus obtained
through years of experience, we denounce the 
incorrect and vindictive statements still made
concerning men, women and matters in Utah;
and regret that any woman should be engaged
in such work. If the women of Utah are "slaves"
their bonds are loving ones and dearly prized.
They are to-day in the free and unrestricted ex-
ercise of more political and social rights than
are the women of any other part of these Uni-
ted States. But they do not choose, as a body
to court folly, pander to senseless passions, en-
courage vice because it may come with smiling
visage and polished exterior; which make mankind
happy in any condition of existence, for the
tinselled covering of hollow sentimentality, and
the guidance of unstable theorists, or creatures
of romance and slaves of passion.
	Life is a solid reality, drawing its existence
from the past, having its influence on the future. 
As such we view it, and labor to exert that in-
fluence for the elevation of human-kind, ment-
ally, morally and physically.-


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿   	HOME AFFAIRS.
				______
	A GRATIFYING novelty in judicial proceed-
ings in Salt Lake County, just now, is the ses-
sion of a grand jury summoned according to law
by the Probate Court.
	WILL COUNTY School Superintendents be
kind enough to furnish for the EXPONENT re-
ports of the condition of education in their
several counties?
	THE HIGH waters have fallen throughout the
Territory, leaving abundance for irrigation; and
the prospects for the coming harvest are ex-
ceedingly cheering.   
	A COMMUNICATION from Goshen Valley was
received too late for notice in the present issue.
The same explanation applies to the report of
the Third Ward, F. R. Society of Provo, which
will appear in the next number.
	THE BERGER Family of bell-ringers, with
Sol Smith Russell, are to appear again at the
theatre this week, and will without question be
largely patronized. They are chaste and artistic
performers, and one attractive feature of their
programmes is the appearance of a highly ac-
complished cornet band of ladies.
	IN THE general Retrenchment meeting held in
this city, June 22nd, the President, Miss E. R.
Snow, recommended each Society to have a
Secretary and assistant Secretary, so that in
case of indisposition or other hinderances occur-
ring to prevent either one from attending a
meeting, the other might be there and the min-
utes be regularly kept. This rule is a good one
for Societies outside this city to adopt, as well
as for the different Ward Societies in the city.
	BY A judicial blunder, or for ulterior reasons
not given to the public, the term of the Third
District Court of Utah has been permitted to
lapse. The ad interim Judge, Strickland, ad-
journed it by telegraph, from Provo, until to-
day, instead of attending personally as the stat-
uto requires. Not a few imgaine that the Judge
could not be ignorant of a law so well known,
and that personal chagrin and malice and not
the public interest, were only consulted In the
matter.
	“INDEPENDENCE DAY” is close at hand, and
yet little is said of it. The people of Utah are
warm in their feelings of loyalty to the Consti-
tution and the country, and reverence for the
founders of this great Republic lies shrined in
their heart of hearts; but they desire to cele-
brate the anniversary of freedom as a free peo-
ple, or would prefer not to celebrate at all. By
proclamation they where prohibited from doing
so a year ago, and that proclamation, illegal
and insulting as it was, has never been an-
nulled. We presume they can observe the
day in a quiet fashion, with less outward show
yet as much genuine honor for the occasion, as
their fellow citizens in any part of the country.
	ILLUSTRATIONS of the astounding liberality
of thought evinced by many people, where
“Mormonism” is concerned, now and then crop
out. A man a few days ago stepped into the
store of Messrs. Campbell & Patterson, general
agents for the EXPONENT, and seeing copies of
this periodical on the counter lifted one and in-
quired: “Is this in favor of the Mormons or
against them?” “Rather in their favor,” was
the response; on which he threw it indignantly
down, remarking, “Then, I don’t want it.” In
justice to the stranger—for he was one—the rest
must be told. A sharp remark from one of the
firm called him to a sense of his want of polite-
ness, when he purchased a copy of the first
number, took it away with him; and soon after
returned to secure a copy of the second number,
It improved to his taste, evidently, with the
reading.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city
during the past week, lengthy accounts of
which appeared in the daily papers. Charles
L. Dolson, a married man, sought a divorce
from his wife, and endeavored to have Mary
Obey obtain a divorce from her husband, who
was his partner, that he might marry her.
Whatever relations existed between Dolson and
the woman have not yet been made public, hut
she had left her husband and was residing in
St. Louis, where Dolson corresponded with her.
She refused to accede to his desires, upon which
he became as abusive as he had been beforetime
endearing. Oliver C. Obey, the husband, ob-
tained a knowledge of the facts, and feelings of
violent anger between the men, who were both
gamblers, was the result. Dolson circulated a
printed card, reflecting in gross terms on Obey
and his wife. On Tuesday night last the men
met in the post office in this city, near the de-
livery windows, when Obey killed Dolson,
shooting him with five bullets from a pistol.
He was arrested, stood an examination before
Judge Clinton, and was held to bail in $2,000 to
appear for trial. It was a case of ungoverned
passion, unbridled lust, and sanguinary revenge
from begining to end; and on the part of one a
fearful termination to an unenviable life.
		 ___________________________
﻿


﻿WOMEN INVENTORS.
				____
	Why women do not invent, is a problem
an anonymous English writer has solved, to
his own satisfaction at the least. He thinks
that the cause of feminine uninventiveness 
is to be found in hereditary laws.  Women
have always been drudges.  Men have been
the explorers, the inventors, the actors of
the world from the first, while women have
simply looked on, followed and obeyed. Con-
sequently they inherit an uninventive con-
stisution, and the inertia of a thousand gen-
erations has descended in entail upon the
women of to-day. All of which is exceed-
ingly plausable, provided the fact corres-
ponds with the assumption. But is it a fact
that woman is naturally less inventive than
man?  We have no proof that she is not.
True she makes few inventions. But she
has few occasions and still fewer opportuni-
ties for making them. She does not get that
practical knowledge of machinery that comes
only from long and constant usage, which is
necessary as the first condition of making
improvements.  As she is not an artisan she
fails to get the requisite mastery of tools to
enable her to see how to put them to yet un-
known uses.  And still further, the stress
of necessity and the spur of mechanical am-
bition are not laid upon her. Scarcely one
mechanic in a hundred ever invents any-
thing. Until a hundred women are thor-
oughly trained to mechanical arts and spend
years in actual mechanical labor it is unfair
to expect one woman to invent anything.
Yet in our Patent Office there are some fifty
models of inventions made by women. In
her own familiar work of making dresses
and ordering the household, woman shows
inventiveness of a high order, which if it
had had the requisite training and field for
its exercises might have achieved brilliant
results. The hereditary theory failing
to account for the fact, the theory and as-
sumption drop together.  We have known
not a few women who have invented noble
traits and amiable qualities for men who
were intolerably stupid and vulgar, and had
their inventions return to plague them ever
after.—“Golden Age.”


A correspondent of the New York
“Tribune” predicts that central Illinois will
become the garden spot of the world. One
of them most likely.


﻿CARELESSNESS AND ITS RESULTS.
	Accounts of accidents by fire, drowning,
children being run over by teams, etc., are
becoming more and more frequent, notwith-
standing the constant efforts that are made,
and the new inventions that are being
continually brought to light, for the preven-
tion of such painful incidents.
	Now and then there seems to be an
almost supernatural force at work against
some individual, or company of individuals,
who have no chance or power to resist, and
are consequently obliged to submit to disap-
pointments, disasters and, frequently, death.
	Bnt much more common is it, that mis-
haps occur as a result of recklessness, or in-
judicious calculations, than otherwise. Nu-
merous instances are recorded of loving and
faithful mothers stepping out of their rooms
for a few minutes only, leaving their precious
little darling, or darlings, where a kettle of
scalding-hot water might be reached, or a
consuming fire be kindled, and returning to
find their little ones writhing in the agonies
of death, or already dead; or perhaps doomed
to wear out a wretched existence on earth,
rendered an object of pity to all beholders.
The sympathies of a community, the tears
of a world could be no compensation for the
loss sustained in that moment of affliction;
yet a little prudence and forethought might
have prevented the cause for sorrow.
	Broken limbs, crushed heads, and distress-
ing deaths, are too often the effects offathers
leaving their teams improperly secured,
with children in the vehicles to be run away
with.
	Children are sent generally, or permitted
to go out, to play that the house may be rid
of their noise; and not being duly cautioned
against running dangerous risks, or being
themselves forgetful and heedless, it fre-
quently occurs that they are run over in the
street, drowned, or made the victims of ac-
cidents in some other way.
	The loss of proqerty might be averted
many times were discretion observed as it
should be.
	With all the hazardous recklessness that
now abounds, is it any woner that so many
accidents are constantly occurring?


SLEEP.
	If no other reward could be anticipated,
for a good, substantial day’s work, and the
careful keeping of a clear conscience, a night
of calm, refreshing sleep is a compensation
not to be ignored by the most ambitious and
energetic.
	How is it that laborers in literature, and
in fact in nearly all the pursuits of life aside
from the farm and housework, have so for
converted their days into nights as to per-
form the greater part of their work by arti-
ficial light, and take their rest and sleep
while the sun shines?
	When Frederic the Great and one of his
literary friends conceived the idea of so far
overcoming and remodeling nature in them-
selves as to live and labor without sleep, the
absurdity of such an undertaking was clearly
illustrated by the attempt and failure they
made.  And it has been alleged by careful
demonstrators that a person in good health
will not take more sleep than nature re-
quires, and that from six to eight hours in
every twenty-four should be given to sleep
to aid the continuance of health and to pro-
mote longevity.
	Is it not very probable that one great
cause of the immature deaths in the present
age, may be attributed to a lack of indulg-
ence in this exhilarating restorative at the
proper time?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			22


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
	Young ladies have now the necktie
mania.
	“Pooh ! who cares for Beecher,” says
Fanny Fern, “I used to go to school to his
sister.”
	A Burlington, Iowa, girl got show-
struck while a circus was exhibiting there,
and went off with it.
	A “woman’s rights” man, rather bashful,
and a little religious, asks his wife to “ say
grace” when they have company.
	Twenty thousand women keep body and
soul together in Switzerland by their skill
at the finer work of watch-making.
	Ida Lewis having married or otherwise
sacrificed her claims to public attention, a
Mrs. Clifford appears as her successor in the
capacity of an aquatic heroine.
	Mrs. Woodhull speaks freely of the abuse
and misrepresentations of which she had
been and is yet the victim, but says these
persecutions have but purified her.
	Mrs. Drummond, the Quaker preacher,
was asked whether the spirit ever inspired
her with the thought of getting married.
“No, my friend,” said she, “but the flesh
has.”
	Miss Kellogg is said to have a larger
repertoire than any living prima donna.
She is letter and note perfect in twenty-
five operas, in most of which she has sung
with success.
	A German woman, living in Goodhue
Co., Minnesota, yoked herself along side of a
cow this spring, and the two together hauled
a drag during the day after a seeder, which
was run by her husband with a span of
horses. 
	Mrs. Charles Kean, of London, was so de-
lighted with Kate Field’s elocution that she
besought the fair lecturer to adopt the stage.
But she does not propose to forsake the lec-
ture Field for the uncertain triumph of the
Boards quite yet.
	A medical college for the education of
women has been chartered by the New York
legislature, and two or three women of
wealth have agreed to furnish the college
with buildings, and secure its future useful-
ness by liberal funds.
	Somebody has said that life is an epigram
of which death is the point. Kate Sanborn
thinks it would be well if many of our novel-
ists would consent to starve the public for a
few years, and devote their diluted energies
to composing epigrams.
	The whole story of man’s regard for wo-
man, in countries where she is uneducated,
is told in the simple language of the-Modean
of Siberia, who, at the marriage ceremony,
places the bride on a mat, saying to the
bridegroom there, “Wolf, take thy lamb!”
	A servant girl at Pittsfield, Mass., it is
related, was so much impressed the other
night by dreaming that some one was robbing
the clothes line, that she got up and looked
out of the window, when she saw a man car-
rying off some clothes.  She was so over-
come by the singularity of the affair that she
let him go and did not tell the story till the
next day.
	Mrs. Olive Logan Sykes has come back
from the south-west, bringing with her, it
is said, the MS. of a volume which will ut-
terly demolish Stephen Pearl Andrews’ so-
cial pantarchy and Mrs. Woodhull’s conjugal
theories.  Those who have hesitated to
marry for fear that the institution would
collapse just as they had fairly invested in
it, may now take courage and apply for a
certificate.


﻿OBJECTS OF DRESS.
			      ______
	
	If women had but one object in selecting
and arranging their costumes—to make a
pleasing display, how far short of meeting
that object the fashionable ladies of to-day
would come, with their puffs and panniers,
their bends and bawbles,false hair,disfigured
forms, cramped feet, paint-spoiled complex-
ions and general bogus apppearance !
	But there are, really, two other objects in
dress, which should be held paramount to
this one, yet they are not generally so looked
upon.  The first object should be health, and
next to that convenience.   Yet these two
features are now so entirely overlooked in
ladies’ toilets, as to be trampled on and mar-
tyred without mercy ; merely for the sake
of adopting fashions that are absurd and
only serve to make their foolish votaries ap- 
pear ridiculous ; so that not one object, nei-
ther health, comfort nor true adornment, is
obtained.
	What time and means are spent for no
purpose except to make of ourselves exactly
what we do not wish to be ; poor, wretched,
unsightly invalids! If we had in view no
future, and lived only in and for the present
moment, would there not be more sanity in
our spending the little time alloted us here
in doing as much good in the world as we
can, taking measures to promote health and
happiness while we stay and to preserve life
as long as possible, than in taking the oppo-
site course as many are now doing ? And
if we look forward to another and higher
state of being than we now live in, how
shall we be prepared for it if we fritter away
our present existence in experimenting on
how the person may be arranged to carry
the most gewgaws and look the most
distorted ; working ourselves to death to
obtain all this fashionable nonsense, or
drawing the money for it from the pockets
of our fathers, brothers, or husbands, who
are sufficiently yielding to honor our whims,
while they may mourn over, our mania for
dress while being driven into bankruptcy
and despair!
	Daughters and sisters, where are your
hearts ! Wives and mothers, where are
your brains !
	Can not a consistency be arrived at and
held to in these matters, which will aid
greatly in bringing about a general reform ?
Or has the majority of womankind become
too selfish, sordid and heartless to conceive
of any higher aim than that of bringing dis-
grace upon herself, her lineage and her sex
by committing suicide by means of a slow
and miserable process!


THOUGHTS.
			       ____
FOR A BRANCH OF THE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION.
			       ____
	Do we realize and  keep in mind, that
most of us, if not all, have formed many
good resolutions and covenanted before the
Lord to try and carry them out? What is
it to try to do a thing that the Lord has cer-
tainly commanded, and which our sense of
morality and our knowledge—though limited
—of the ways of God, teach us is pleasing in
His sight?
	To really try, trusting in the Lord for
power to accomplish His purposes concern-
ing us, is virtually to consumate the thing
designed. We may think we try—we may
say we have tried—to put away some idle
habit, some vain fancy, unwise passions, un-
due and perhaps causless jealousies, while
in reality we have merely been wishing,
and that not very strongly, that such and
such imperfections existing in our present
organizations, were overcome, or that we
had never possessed them. If a very quick-
tempered person realizing the folly of being 
easily provoked, says that she would give 
anything if she only could control her tem- 
per, and in a moment afterward flies into a
passion, on little or no provocation; and when 
cautioned against giving way to anger and 
saying unreasonable things, is silenced there- 
by, or expresses penitence; she thus shows 
her sincerity in desiring to overcome this 
natural failing. And you may be sure, if
she will not allow herself to become discour- 
aged, but continues to try, she will by and 
by reap the reward of a happy conquerer.
	But if, on the other hand, when reminded
that she must first use all her exertions to 
govern herself if she wishes to become able 
to do so with ease, she proves ungrateful for 
the interest taken in her welfare, and disre-
gards the kindly advice given, then you 
may justly suppose that the declaration con- 
cerning her temper was inconsiderately 
uttered, and that she does not really care to
overcome it or she would anxiously endea-
vor to do so.	
	These and similar rules for self-govern- 
ment are applicable to all proclivities of hu- 
man nature, as well as to the temper; and 
any propensity that flesh is heir to, may 
prove either a curse or a blessing to its pos- 
sessor, as it is governed or allowed to govern.
	To each of us is granted the inestimable 
privilege of working for and obtaining all
the blessings and rejecting the curses. But, 
in order to enjoy this privilege to the fullest
extent, we must never cease striving to
overcome, while there remains within our
beings one perceptible fault. Neither should
we take offense at kindly-offered criticisms,
which, if properly received, may prove of
much value to us, and for which we should
be grateful.
	We wish to attain to that perfection which
will fit us to dwell in the presence of our
Heavenly Parents, and to be associated
“with the noblesse of all Eternities.” It is a 
great object to achieve; and none of us will
be able to bear more than our own infirmi-
ties. We cannot overcome the least imper- 
fection for a neighbor, nor can we trust a
neighbor to do anything of the kind for us.
Yet, we can often greatly assist each other,
by gently and wisely criticising at the right
time and in the proper manner. Except in
some rare cases it is always unnecessary, and
unwise to speak of faults to any except those 
who possess them, and who alone can and 
should overcome them. And in doing this
we should be careful to, if possible, never
wound the feelings of the person we desire
to benefit.	
	When criticised, instead of seeking to ex-
culpate ourselves, let us look more closely 
to our thoughts and ways, and see if the 
hint is not really applicable; ever bearing in
mind that “it is easier to mend a fault than
to hide it.”			F.S.


In a paper read before the British Associ-
ation, Dr. Wilson argues that habitual crim-
inals do not possess such an amount of in-
tellect as to enable them to discriminate
between right and wrong, and that the
majority of them are devoid of common
sense; they are of a low type of intellectual
development, and some of them are unable
to surmount even the rudimentary difficul-
ties of education. Dr. W. states that he has
made several hundred separate measure-
ments, and all showed a cranial deficiency,
especially in the anterior lobe of the brain.
It is easy and charitable to believe the
Doctor’s logic correct.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
			    _____
	THE four principle smelting works for
the treatment of gold and silver ores in the
United States, and outside of Colorado, are
at San Francisco, California, Reno, Nevada,
Omaha, Nebraska, and Newark, N. J.
	THE yearly revenue of the Order of Odd
Fellows in the United States is now about
$3,500,000, and the average annual outlay
for purposes of relief is $1,000,000. The re-
mainder is reserved as a fund to be called
into use whenever required. The latest of-
ficial statistics of the Order are as follows:
Number of members, 757,941; number buried,
49,019; total relief paid, $16,542,256; total
receipts, $40,234,417; amount invested and
funds on hand, $23,690,170.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE is said to be a
plain, simple woman, quite destitute of ro-
mance, poetry, or sentiment—no “Evangel-
ical” in belief or habit, no “professor,” least
of all a devotee—yet when she is thinking
how she can help the sick and wounded,
how she can improve the administration of
hospitals, her face takes on an expression of
pure, spiritual beauty, her eyes kindle with
enthusiasm, she is transported out of her-
self. The soldiers in the hospitals at Scutari
adored her as an angel, were happy if they
could but touch the hem of her garment,
and sent imploring looks after her shadow.
	HENRY WARD BEECHER says : “ Work.
There is some tendency among the laboring
classes to reduce the hours of work to eight.
I like it, and I abhor it. I like it, because
it is a sign of the growing intelligence of
the working classes; and I abhor it, because
it would seem that work was hateful. I
don’t believe that common people are going
to work out their fortunes by collusion, ex-
cept by hard knocks. I don’t believe that
the majority of them will be able, at eight
hours’ work, to educate their children and
to leave their families in a better condition.
I do not wish to say anything against the
working man—I who have the blood of
blacksmiths in my veins; but I want to
praise work.”
	LARGE TELESCOPE.—There is in process
of manufacture at Cambridgeport, Massachu-
setts, for the use of the United States Naval
Observatory at Washington, the largest re-
fracting telescope in the world. The object
glass is twenty-six inches in diameter, and
the telescope when completed will cost $46,-
000. McCormick, of McCormick reaper
fame, has ordered an instrument of the same
size, to be presented by him to the Lee and
Washington University of Virginia, his
native State. The next refracting telescope
in point of size is owned by Newhall, of
Gateshead, England. The telescope so
much prized by Harvard University has an
object glass of about fifteen inches diameter,
and the one connected with the Chicago
University has a diameter of eighteen and a
half inches.
	WILL MOTHERS heed the following:	A
very distinguished Paris physician says: “I
believe that, during the twenty years I have
practiced my profession, 20,000 children
have been carried to the cemeteries, a sacri-
fice to the absurd custom of exposing their
arms. Put the bulb of a thermometer into
a baby’s mouth, and the mercury rises to
ninety degrees. Now, carry the same to its
little hand; if the arm be bare and even
cool, the mercury will sink to fifty degrees.
Of course, all the blood that flows through
these arms must fall from ten to forty de-
grees below the temperature of the heart.
Need I say, when these currents of the
blood flow back to the chest, the child’s vi-
tality must be more or less compromised?
And need I add that we ought not to be
surprised at the frequently recurring affec-
tions of the tongue, throat, or stomach?”
	HERE is how Theodore Tilton talks in
the “Golden Age” of the woman recogni-
tion plank in the Philadelphia platform :
“It is something that the women got a rec-
ognition at the Philadelphia Convention.
Of course everybody knows that the woman
plank is the thinnest bit of pasteboard imag-
inable, and means about as much as “ Very
truly Yours,” at the end of a letter; and we
never heard of a woman’s basing a suit for
breach of promise on this complimentary
appendage to an ordinary epistle. The wo-
men who see the dawn of the millennium in
the nebulous generalities of the Philadelphia
platform, must be in a desperate plight, and
like the ancient maiden we hear of, and al-
ways regarded as apocryphal, who exclaimed
out of her impatience, ‘Anything in the
shape of a husband, good Lord !’ If Mrs.
Livermore and Lucy Stone and Miss Gordon
can wax eloquent over Grant, their enthusi-
asm must be irrepressible.”
	"THERE ARE so many of us. We are
like ‘the blades of grass,' as Red Cloud says.
We cannot all be supported, depend and
cling as we may. We must look out and do
for ourselves.
	“It is now pretty generally admitted that
a woman may know something of business
—of bookkeeping, banking, and even law—
without loosing the peculiar charm and
beauty of her womanhood ; that such stud-
ies as are pursued here do not necessarily
rub the bloom from the peach of maidenly
innocence, the frost from the plum of mod-
est reserve, the gold-dust from the wing of
the feminine soul. True womanhood is not
to be essentially changed by changed pur-
suits and conditions. There is a tough vi-
tality about tender womanhood. It is a
tree, whose roots take hold on eternal life.”
	[Extract from Grace Greenwood’s address
in behalf of the Lady Graduates of the
Washington Business College, June 17,
1870.]
	THE "GOLDEN AGE" says: When the
Englishman wants money for a charitable or
religious purpose he collects together a large
number of wealthy old gentlemen, and after
getting them into a good humor by good
feeding and warming their hearts to a glow
of generosity by plenty of wine, depletes
their purses to an important extent. The
public dinner is really a gentle kind of gar-
roting. At these dinners, which are for the
most part insufferably dull, no woman is under
any circumstances admitted, though of late
years, by a daring innovation, ladies have
been admitted to the galleries to look down
and see their male friends eat, themselves
being regaled by a little wine and sand-
witches handed around. It was into one of
these solid and stupid dinner parties that
our brilliant countrywoman, Miss Kate Field,
was smuggled the other day, without being
scarcely noticed by any one present, until
after the usual heavy toasts and heavier re-
sponses about the Queen and Royal Family
and Army and Navy; then the usual senti-
ment to women was proposed and our fair
revolutionist rose with easy grace, and with
sparkling wit, with winning voice, and
twinkling eyes, won them from their first
stupor of fright; then one and another began
to snicker at her sallies; then followed one
or two hearty laughs, and finally the whole
table was in a roar. The effect of her speech
was electrical, and already some of the solid
Englishers who attend those dinners confess
that they would be more attractive were
ladies invited to partake of them, and then
to open their lips afterward.

﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
The four principle smelting works for
the treatment of gold and silver ores in the
United States, and outside of Colorado, arc
at San Francisco, California, Reno, Nevada,
Omaha, Nebraska, and Newark, N. J.
The yearly revenue of the Order of Odd
Fellows in the United States is now about
$3,500,000, and the average annual outlay
for purposes of relief is $1,000,000. The re-
mainder is reserved as a fund to be called
into use whenever required. The latest of-
ficial statistics of the Order are as follows:
Number of members, 737,9-11; number buried,
9,010; total relief paid, $10,542,236; total
receipts, $10,234,417; amount invested and
funds on hand, $23,690,170.
Florence Nightingale is said to be a
plain, simple woman, quite destitute of ro-
mance, poetry, or sentiment—no “Evangel-
ical” in belief or habit, no “professor,” least
of all a devotee—yet when she is thinking
how she can help the sick and wounded,
how she can improve the administration of
hospitals, her face takes on an expression of
pyre, spiritual, beauty, her eyes kindle with
enthusiasm, she is transported out of her-
self. The soldiers in the hospitals at Scutari
adored her as an angel, were happy if they
could but touch the hem of her garment,
and sent imploring looks after her shadow.
Henry "Ward Beecher says : “ Work.
There is some tendency among the laboring
classes to reduce the hours of work to eight.
I like it, and I abhor it. I like it, because
it is a sign of the growing intelligence of
the working classes; and I abhor it, because
it would seem that work was hateful. I
don’t believe that common people are going
to work out their fortunes by collusion, ex-
cept by hard knocks. I don’t believe that
the majority of them will be able, at eight
hours’ work, to educate their children and
to leave their families in a better condition.
I do not wish to say anything against the
working man—I who have the blood of;
blacksmiths in my veins but I want to
praise work.”
Large Telescope.—There is in process
of manufacture at Cambridgeport, Massachu-
setts, for the use of the United States Naval
Observatory at Washington, the largest re-
fracting telescope in the world. The object
glass is twenty-six inches in diameter, and
the telescope when completed will cost $46,-
000. McCormick, of McCormick reaper
fame, has ordered an instrument of the same
size, to be presented by him to the Lee and
Washington University of Virginia, his
native State. The next refracting telescope
in point of size is owned by Newhall, of
Gateshead, England. The telescope so
much prized by Harvard University has an
object glass of about fifteen inches diameter,
and the one connected with the Chicago
University has a diameter of eighteen and a
half inches.
Wile mothers heed the following: A
very distinguished Paris physician says: “I
believe that, during the twenty years I have
practiced my profession, 20,000 children
have been carried to the cemeteries, a sacri-
fice to the absurd custom of exposing their
arms. Put the bulb of a thermometer into
a baby’s mouth, and the mercury rises to
ninety degrees. Now, carry the same to its
little hand; if the arm he bare and even
cool, the mercury will sink to fifty degrees.
Of course, all the blood that flows through
these arms must fall from ten to forty de-
grees below the temperature of the heart.
Need I say, when these currents of the
blood flow back to the chest, the child’s vi-
tality must be more or less compromised?
And need I add that we  ought not to be
surprised at the frequently recurring affec-
tions of the tongue, throat, or stomach?”
Here is how Theodore Tilton talks in
the “Golden Age” of the woman recogni-
tion plank in the Philadelphia platform :
“It is something that the women got a rec-
ognition at the Philadelphia Convention.
Of course everybody knows that the woman
plank is the thinnest bit of pasteboard imag-
inable, and means about as much as “ Very
truly Yours,” at the end of a letter; and we
never heard of a woman’s basing a suit for
breach of promise on this complimentary
appendage to an ordinary epistle. The wo-
men who see the dawn of the millennium in
the nebulous generalities of the Philadelphia
platform, must be in a desperate plight, and
like the ancient maiden we hear of, and al-
ways regarded as apocryphal, who exclaimed
out of her impatience, ‘Anything in the
shape of a husband, good Lord !’ If Mrs.
Livermore and Lucy Stone and Miss Gordon
can wax eloquent over Grant, their enthusi-
asm must be irrepressible.”
“There are so many of us. We are
like the blades of grass, as Rod Cloud says.
We cannot all be supported, depend and
cling as we may. We must look out and do
for ourselves.
“ It is now pretty generally admitted that
a woman may know something of business
—of bookkeeping, banking, and even law—
without loosing the peculiar charm and
beauty of her womanhood ; that such stud-
ies as are pursued here do not necessarily
rub the bloom from the peach of maidenly
innocence, the frost from the plum of mod-
est reserve, the gold-dust from the wing of
the feminine soul. True womanhood is not
to be essentially changed by changed pur-
suits and conditions. There is a tough vi-
tality about tender womanhood. It is a
tree, whose roots take hold on eternal life.”
Extinct from Grace Greenwood’s address
in behalf of the Lady Graduates of the
Washington Business College, June 17,
l870.
The “Golden Age” says: When the
Englishman wants money for a charitable or
religious purpose lie collects together a large
number of wealthy old gentlemen, and after
getting them into a good humor by good
feeding and warming their hearts to a glow
of generosity by plenty of wine, depletes
their purses to an important extent. The
public dinner is really a gentle kind of gar-
roting. At these dinners, which are for the
most part insufferably dull, no woman is under
any circumstances admitted, though of late
years, by a daring innovation, ladies have
been admitted to the galleries to look down
aud see their male friends eat, themselves
being regaled by a little wine and sand-
witches handed around. It was into one of
these solid and stupid dinner parties that
our brilliant countrywoman, Miss Kate Field,
was smuggled the other day, without being
scarcely noticed by any one present, until
after the usual heavy toasts and heavier re-
sponses about the Queen and Royal Family
and Army and Navy; then the usual senti-
ment to women was proposed and our fair
revolutionist rose with easy grace, and with
sparkling wit, with winning voice, and
twinkling eyes, won them from their first
stupor of fright; then one and another began
to snicker at her sallies; then followed one
or two hearty laughs, and finally the whole
table was in a roar. The effect of her speech
was electrical, and already some of the solid
Englishers who attend those dinners confess
that they would be more attractive were
ladies Invited to partake of them, and then
to open their lips afterward.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			—
  THE Wisconsin tobacco crop for 1872 is
estimated at 10,000,000 pounds.
  THE Odd Fellows of Indiana, in even
numbers, are 20,000 strong.
  THE biggest sale of real estate ever made
in Minnesota was that of 31,500 acres in
Todd and Otter Tail counties sold the other
day to a London firm for $80,000.
   KOOPMANSCHAP has gone to wreck at
last, on the Mongolian wave, with liabilities
of $260,000 and any quantity of assets in
Chinamen’s notes, quotable at a cent a pound
for old paper.
  IN 1871 the iron mills of Illinois rolled
40,026 tons of rails, iucluding 2,800 of sheet
rails, and rounded 51,152 tons, making a to-
tal production of 91,178 tons of railroad bars,
which places Illinois next to Pennsylvania
in the manufacture of rails.
   FRANZ ABT works a whole year in Ger-
many for about $1,500, while in this coun-
try twice that sum is lavished in his enter-
tainment almost nightly.  America must be
to him the Eldorado of his dream days.
  THE total membership of the Orthodox
Quakers at present in the United States is
57,105, being an increase of 715 in 20 years.
   AT THE Methodist General Conference it
was stated the other day that the church
has $70,000,000 of property, and that before
long it will amount to $100,000,000.
  THERE are 215 cadets at the Naval Acad-
emy, 39 of whom were appointed by the
President, four are naval apprentices, three
Japanese students, one is from the District
of Columbia, and 169 from the various
States.
  THE American Printworks at Fall River,
Mass., are arranging to suspend operations
for a season on account of the price of goods.
The amount of business done at the works,
requires $2,100 a day to carry it on, and
nearly $3,000,000 worth of cloth is in process
of printing from the time it goes into the
mill before it is finished.
   THERE are over 650,000 scholars in atten-
dance at the public schools in Illinois.
Teachers number over 20,000. School
houses, log, frame, brick and stone, 10,773.
Expenditures for school purposes for the
past year, $7,000,000.
   LEXINGTON, Ky., has nine hemp facto-
ries, employing an average of about sixty
hands each. The average amount of hemp
consumed per day the year round by these
firms, is from twenty to thirty tons, necessi-
tating the planting by the farmers to supply
this demand of about 30,000 acres of the
best land.
   THE following are the dimensions of the
great bridge now being erected between
New York and Brooklyn: Total length,
5,682 feet; length of central span, 1,600 ;
elevation above high water, 130 ; Width of
bridge floor, 80 feet; height of towers above
high water, 268 feet; base of towers at wa-
ter line, 121 by 56 feet.
  THE Vulcan Iron Works, Carondolet, Mo.,
employs 800 men in relays of five hours
each. The furnaces are turning out from
seventy to eighty tons of pig iron daily.
One of them is making pig iron directly
from pure. Iron Mountain (Mo.) ore, to fill a
contract with the Bessemer Steel Works at
Chicago. The rail mill is making forty tons
per day. The largest vertical, direct-acting,
blowing engine west of Pittsburg is here ;
its steam cylinder has a diameter of five feet
and stroke of nine feet; the blowing cylin-
der, a diameter of ten feet and stroke of nine
feet. Its capacity is 20,000 cubic feet of air
per minute.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿The ladies of the Congregational Society
of San Mateo, realized from their “Mother
Goose party” over $300.


﻿Ohio has enacted by law that eighty-
eight cubic inches of bituminous coal shall
weigh just sixty pounds avoirdupois.


A Connecticut company is putting up a
factory for the building of carriages made
entirely of India rubber, excepting the axles
and tires. A decided superiority is claimed
for the material over wood.


﻿In 1787 the Emperor of China issued the
following decree: “All persons of the female
sex are forbidden, upon any pretext what-
ever, to enter a temple or quit their houses,
except in cases of absolute necessity.
Fathers, husbands, sons or relatives are
commanded to keep them at home on pain
of being themselves severely punished.”
What a believer in equal rights! The men,
most likely, had as hard a time of it as the
women.


The Massachusetts Labor Union Conven-
tion met in Boston on the 28th ult. Wendell
Phillips offered a series of resolutions, which
were adopted after a long debate, approving
all labor associations, announcing the belief,
expediency and necessity of strikes, but
denouncing violence; advocating congres-
sional establishment of labor unions; declar-
ing that all dividend paying companies
should be obliged to divide half of the net
profits among employes, and that imported
pauper contract work should be dutyable.


Z. C. M. I.
	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
				H.B. CLAWSON, Sup't

LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler's for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.
			  
		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
		SHUTTLE MACHINE
						In the World.
  Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking apart to Oil or Clean it.
  Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City.							IRA PFOUTZ, Ag't.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
			     
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
  At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
					DENTIST,
  Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER
   Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
  Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited ; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S
	
	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES !

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-
	
	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. 	Price 25 cents.

  EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

  CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. 	Price 25 cents.

  ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills.	Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J.E. JOHNSON,
						 St. George, Utah.
[next column]
		   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them ; and 
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

  Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings; 
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.

	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

   TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, 	  $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a 
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
									

