Vol. I.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1872.	No. 6.﻿


NEWS AND VIEWS.

 THE usual deluge of summer “poetry” is
being poured out..
  EX-EMPRESS EUGENIE finds warm sym-
pathy in cold Scotland.
  A FAILURE.—PlautamouFs comet to put
in an appearance on the 12th, insf.
  PRESIDENT GRANT and would-be President
Greeley are “swinging around the circle,”
and their admirers are feting" them.
  POLITICAL parties charge political .corrup-
tion on each other, and the facts reveaL ah
alarming amount of truth in the charges,
 MR. JEFFERSON, the actor, is.recovering
his eyesight, and Rip Van Winkle,.as.per-
sonated by him, may again delight thou-
sands,
  SUSAN B. ANTHONY has announced-her-
self strongly in favor of President Grant’s
re-election. Miss Anthony has done wiser
things.
  THE Presidential campaign has given
Utah, a breathing spell from her persecutors.
Every blessing should be thankfully ac-
knowledged.
  POLITICIANS changing parties and tiie
people pressing on to the accomplishment of
a settled political purpose, arc among the
signs of the times.
  A RECENT magazine says: “ Fifteen dol-
lar will buy a lovely homestead of eighty.
acres in Florida.” But is it worth the money?
And how much of a fortune does it take to
make the homestead profitable.
  GARIBALDI, it is said, has quit soldiering
I and turned novelist, and is preparing for the
press a novel the scenes of which nrc'laid in
France during the late war. “ Take away
the sword, states may be saved without it.”
  LADY Wentworth, of England, has left
the roof of her husband, and Lord Went-
worth advertises her as if they were “vulgar
plebians.” The leveling tendencies of the
age have struck oven the haughty English
aristocracy.
  THE rejection of the side-saddle for ladies’
riding is warmly agitated just now, without
making much headway, A revolution in
dress will precede the change, and then
sensible women will cry halt, and consider
the matter.
  "LET us have peace" was the cry on
which General Grant was elected to the
Presidency in 1868; and still the Republic
cries and yearns for good peace and has not
yet found it. Election watchwords are as
hollow as worthless reeds.
  BALDNESS, it is said, is becoming fearfully
prevalent among the ladies as a result of 
wearing chignons. Where nature's orna-
ment of hair is cultivated in place of mon-
strosities of fashion, this deformity is
avoided. But fashion makes fools of mil-
lions.
  RUSSIA stands no newspaper nonsense. A
report was circulated in the United States
that the Grand Duke Alexis was secretly
married; and two Russian editors have been
fined and imprisoned for alluding to the mat-
ter. It is a reflection on the profession, but
sad to say a truth, to add that if all the edi-
tors in this country that publish false reports

were imprisoned, the penitentiaries would
have to be enlarged.
   BOSTON shipped 489,500 gallons of Med-
ford rum to heathen Africa in the last six
months. With a sufficient stock of mission-
ary tracts and red flannel jackets Africa
should be in a fair way to be "Christianized"
and "civilized." Bnt that Boston thus ex-
porst the gospel of rum to the heathen is a 
stain on the "Hub" which it should cover
with the mantle of charity for the short-
comings of other place less pretentions in
regard to piety, literature, and the higher
virtues.
  FIVE young ladies of New York announced
through a leading newspaper the other day
that they would ride in a public part of the
city, on horseback, in the style men use—
without side-saddles.  Whether the exploit
was an illustration of moral courage, or a
speciman of "fast" life, the public can deter-
mine ; but the act of itself shows that the
modesty which our great-grandfathers ad-
mired in our great-grandmothers is not so
popular as it might be to the benefit of well-
ordered society.
  HON. John A. Bingham, who was so anx-
ious last session of Congress to have some
harsh, prescriptive, anti-Mormon bill passed,
has been kindly permitted by his constitu-
ents to retire after the 4th of March next.
They declined to nominate him, and he can
now pass to the living tomb of politicans
with Cullom, Colfax and others, who sought
to make political capital by pressing a cru-
sade against the people of Utah, and became
bankrupt by the operation.
  AN English astronomer once said that a
comet striking an ex-
press train going forty miles an hour would
have on the train. M. Plantamour, the Swiss
astronomer, evidently did not think so when
he predicted fearful results to this planet by
its coming into collision with a comet on the 
12th instant. If the comet encountered the
earth at the date specified, the blow must
have been a light one, as nobody appears to
have felt it.
  DID Stanley, the New York "Herald"
correspondent, find Dr. Livingstone, or did
 he not? Did he write the letters attributed
to him, or were they written in the "Herald"
office in New York? Is there anything
genuine about Stanley's account of finding
Livingstone, or is the whole, a "bohemian's"
fabrication, bred in a vivid imagination and
designed to secure cheap notoriety for
wonderful journalistic enterprise? These
are questions of the hour. And the news-
paper that can so thrill the pulse of the
civilized world with a fabrication—if it be
one—has won a triumph of notoriety that
respectable journals will not envy.
  THE Emperors of Germany, Russia, and
Austria, are soon to meet in Berlin, and the 
ex-Emperor Napolean is going to drink the
waters of Carlsbad. Emperors do not con-
gregate in this manner to exchange courtes-
ies. There is danger to the peace of Europe
in their gathering together, and millions of
homes may be filled with mourning because
of the meeting of Willhelm, Alexander and
Francis Joseph. Such are the fruits of
imperial ambition; and such will be the

fruits of a lust for power while men are the
slaves of passions which prompt them to
work woe in the world that they may be
great and raised far above their fellows.
  "THE Sleeping Beauty of Tennessee" is
the title given to a woman in that State who
presents one of those physical phenomena
which baffle science and apparently set all
ordinary laws of nature at defiance. She
is described as white as marble, thirty-
one years ago, and having slept for
twenty-three years, awaking thirteen times
every twenty-four hours and remaining
awake exactly seven minutes each time,
during which she eats, drinks and talks. It
is said no earthly power can make her keep
awake a second longer than seven minutes
at a time; and that she breathes only at in-
tervals of five minutes. The circumstances
connected with the peculiar case are related
at length in the Louisville "Courier Jour-
nal" and bear marks of genuineness. Where
is the pundit or savant that can give a satis-
factory explanation of the phenomenon?
  IT is reliably stated that "trichina spira-
lis" has been found in a ham imported to
California from Chicago. The action of these
parasites upon the human system is fatal,
and death is preceeded by tortures of the most
horrible character. They breed in the in-
testines, in the flesh, and through the entire
body of their victim, making it a nursery for
death-dealing insects. In seeing how widely
hog's flesh is used, and thinking on the un-
clean nature of the animal and the serious
consequences that often follow eating it, we 
sometimes think of Dr. Adam Clark's
"grace," when asked to "return thanks"
over a meal where a young roast pig was on
the table. He had an aversion to swine,
but a politeness prevented his declining to
ask a blessing, and in the course of it he
said: "Lord, if Thou canst bless under the
Christian dispensation, what Thou didst
curse under the Jewish dispensation, bless
that pig!" Avoid the use of hog's flesh as
much as possible; but when it must be used
endeavor to learn how the animal was fed,
and be sure to have the flesh thoroughly
cooked. 
	THE first gun of the Presidential cam-
paign was fired at North Carolina, and no-
body seem to be aware whether anyone was
hurt by the discharge. First it was alleged
the State had gone Republican; then Demo-
cratic; then again 'Republican; and both
parties have rejoiced hugely over it in turn.
Seemingly, the Republicans, by a lavish ex-
penditure of money and the use of all the
means at the command of the administra-
tion have elected their candidates for the
Governorship and the several State offices;
while the Democrats have elected a majority
of members of Congress and of the State
Legislature. This virtually makes it a victory
for neither side, so that each can count honors
and rejoice in having won something. The
next elections of interest are those of Cali-
fornia and Maine, the former on September
2, the latter on September 9; with Vermont
coming off on September 3, but as it is cer-
tain to go for Grant less interest attaches to
it. In a month from the present date
politicians will begin to figure with a greater
degree of certainty on the chances of Grant
and Greeley in the November struggle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿ASKING A BLESSING.
			—
"Ay; but wait, good wife, a minute;
	I have first a word to say:
Do you know what day to-day is?
	Mother, ’tis our wedding-day!

"Just as now, we sat at supper
	When the guests had gone away;
You sat that side, I sat this side,
	Forty years ago to-day!.

"Then what plans we laid together:
	What brave things I meant to do!
Could we dream to-day would find us
	At this table—me and you? 

"Better so, no doubt—and yet I
	Sometimes think—I cannot tell—
Had our boys—ah, yes! I know dear;
	Yes, He doeth all things well.

"Well, we’ve had our joys and sorrows;
	Shared our smiles as well as tears;
And—the best of all—I've had your
	Faithful love for forty years!

"Poor we’ve been, but not forsaken;
	Grief we’ve known but never shame—
Father, for Thy endless mercies
	Still	we bless Thy Holy Name!"


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	SMITHFIELD, Cache County, July 31, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I congratulate you on the success of your
paper. I am very much pleased with it,
and am always anxious to see each coming
number. I wish you prosperity in every
good work.					J.S.C.
	We herewith send you a financial report
of our Society, since its organization. We
held our annual meeting on the 13th of
May; had a good attendance, and all felt
well. Our Society is in a prosperous condi-
tion. Since our organization we have re-
ceived in donations and increase of value on
property $858.50; which we have disposed
of as follows: Given to the poor, $319,06;
paid for the educating of dependent children,
$183.15; to assist in gathering the poor,
$77.00; for public expenses, $50.00, and
have a balance now in the Treasury of$229.-
29. A share in the railroad, and shares in
the Co-operative store are included in our
property on hand.
		MRS. E. T. MOREHEAD, President,
		MRS. JANE S. COLEMAN, Secretary,
		MRS. MARGARET STORY; Treasurer.
				   ——
	The following report is from the 17th ward,
Salt Lake City:
	The semi-annual meeting of the fifth year
of the F. R. Society of the 17th ward, was
held in the Union Hall, Thursday, August 6.
	The semi-annual report, which was read
by the Secretary, showed the society to be
in good order. The sum of $158.44 had been
disbursed to the needy during the past six
months.
	We have a large class of Scandinavian sis-
ters who devote some hours a week to the
study of the English language, and are
taught by Sister Julia Howe, who realized
the amount of good that would accrue to
them through a knowledge of the English
language.
	During the meeting the sum of $50.00 was
donated to the Perpetual Emigration Fund.
President Mrs. M. A. Hyde suggested that
a synopsis of the proceedings of the meeting
be sent to the EXPONENT which, being put
to vote, passed unanimously.
	A good feeling prevailed and all felt to do
all they could to aid the poor and suffering.
	Since the organization of the Society, four
years and a half ago, we have raised in dona-
tions, $2,667.42 1/2; disbursed t othe poor,
$1,797.15; and have at present in the treas-
ury, in cash, upwards of $300.00.
			MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.
-


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	INSTABILITY AND a love of change,
among domestics is an evil in our country,
which might be remedied in a great
measure, if employers, especially the mis-
tresses of families, would take more pains
to make their residences agreeable and to
attach domestics to their families by feelings
of gratitude and affection. It is not merely
by giving them good food, comfortable
rooms, presents and privileges that the at-
tachments of domestics are secured. These
things are necessary, but not all that is re-
quired. A kindly interest should be mani-
fested for the hapiness and welfare of the
domestic. Make her feel that you are really
her friend, and can afford, occasionally, to
make little sacrifices to accommodate her
feelings, which may be as sensitive and as
susceptible of enjoyment as your own.
	IT DOES not speak well for womankind,
that washer-women, and those who go out
to day’s work, prefer to work for gentlemen.
Yet they positively aver that gentlemen
find less fault with their work and are much
more liberal in their prices for work than
ladies. The Golden Rule should be kept
in view—ladies should once in a while wash
and get up their own collars and ruffles that
they may be able to consider the real esti-
mate of the labor, and not underrate it when
settling with the poor creatures, who are
thus obliged to work to gain a livelihood.
	PUDDING.—Take a pound of stoned raisins,
six eggs, a wine-glass of rum or brandy,
some beef marrow, a pound of corn flower
or maizena, some sugar, two tumblers of
milk, citron or lemon peel, and nutmeg to
taste; mix perfectly; and add in bread-
crumbs until you get sufficient consistence. 
Tie tightly in a cloth and boil four hours.
	POTATO SOUP.—Boil two or three pounds
of potatoes, mash them well, add slowly
good broth, sufficent for your tureen; let
this well boil, and then add some spinach,
sorrel, a little parsley, lemon, thyme, mint
and sage, all chopped fine; boil all five min-
utes; pepper and salt to taste; just before
taking off the fire, add two well-beaten eggs.
	RENDERING FABRICS INCOMBUSTIBLE.—
Dissolve borax in hot water, soak the cloth-
ing in the liquid, and afterward let it dry.
If will not be impossible to inflame it, al-
though it will burn away with a slow com-
bustion. Alum has been recommended for
the same purpose, but it is injurious to the
clothing; the carbonate of potash may also


be used, but it is apt to contract moisture
from the air, and thus render the clothes
damp.
	STEWED CALF'S FEET.—Divide the feet
at the joints, and split the claws, put them
into a stewpan, and pour in cold water to
cover them completely. If a thick slice of
the lean of an unboiled ham or knuckle of
bacon be laid at the bottom of the pan it
will greatly improve the whole preparation.
When the boiling takes place, throw in a
little salt, and after the scum has been re-
moved, add some parsley, celery, onion,
cloves, mace, and pepper. Stew softly until
the flesh parts entirely from the bones, take
it from them, strain part of the gravy, skim
off the fat, flavor with catsup, and thicken,
when it boils, with flour and butter; put in
the flesh of the feet, and serve immediately.


MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	CHEERFULNESS.—What a world of sun-
shine, beauty and sweetness is concentrated
in this one attribute. Innocence and chas-
tity are its constant companions, for it can-
not in its refined state, exist where there is
impurity, or vulgarity. When it brightens
the countenance and wreathes the lips with
smiles, even a plain, commonplace face ap-
pears to good advantage; while without its
warm and genial expressions, the most fault-
less features are unlovely. Whether mani-
fested in looks, words or actions, it is the
outpourings of a frank and generous heart;
and is actuated by virtuous and unselfish
principles. No intelligence, however su-
perior, can make a person an agreeable com-
panion without the maintenance of some de-
gree of pleasantry. But with a reasonable
share of it, some people render themselves
fascinating, and their company very desira-
ble though their intellectual developments
may be meagre and their education limited.
Rude and boisterous gaiety, that which is
calculated to excite, weary and create after
dissatisfaction, is no part of genuine cheer-
fulness. But happy tears as well as quiet
laughter may be the overflowings of inno-
cent joyousness.
	THE GREAT BELL IN RUSSIA.—The
largest bell is in Russia, in the city of Mos-
cow. The Russians call it “the king of
bells.” It is nearly twenty feet high, sixty
feet around at the bottom, two feet thick,
and weighs four hundred thousand pounds.
Just think of a round room the shape of a
bell, twenty feet across, with walls two feet
thick, and you can have some idea of how
big the bell is. Would you like to ring it?
It takes twelve men to ring it. They tug
and pull, and it booms and tolls so as to al-
most deafen one. Its tongue or clapper is
fourteen feet long. When they were making
this big bell, some of the nobles and rich
people were so proud of it, that they put
gold and silver rings in with the metal.
	A VIGOROUS old agriculturist, living near
Abilene, Kansas, while hoeing corn the other
day, chopped his toe off with his hoe, but
never stopped to pick it up until he had
finished the row. He then went back and
found the amputated appendage, brushed
the dirt off and carried it to the house,
where with the help of his wife and some
fruit jar wax, he replaced it and then went
to work again. He is a self-made man, be-
longs to a Greeley Club, is a deacon in a
church, never imbibes in the the ardent,
neither swears nor chews gum.
	A GLANCE, a twinkle, or an earnest look
often expresses volumes when there is no
time for words. Eyes are not only given for
sight but for the expression of ideas.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
				      —
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Somehow, it seems to me that if all those
“strong minded” women would but allow
themselves to consider, they could hardly
help seeing that, at present, there cannot
be devised any better system for the con-
traction of the social evil, than the Mormon
principle of plurality of wives.
	They believe the majority of women to be
superior to the majority of men. How then
can they hope to procure a suitable husband
for every good and pure woman, save by
letting men who are worthy take more than
one worthy woman each, or many of them,
since there are a great many more women
than men in different parts of the world?
	They believe in equal rights for all.
What equality is there to be found in a
society where only one woman out of a
great number is to be favored with a moral,
temperate husband? While the rest must
remain in “single blessedness,” and die
without having fulfilled their mission to the
earth. Or else, marry poor, worthless,
drunken vagabonds who will desert them
and perhaps their helpless children, when-
ever they tire of them.
	How is it that they cannot see that it
would be better to have a husband that can
be trusted, and a father for the children,
that they need not be ashamed to own?
With all my weakness and selfish feelings,
I can see that women in the world have
much more cause for anxiety and trouble
than we have in Utah.
	Our F. R. Society is not doing much now.
We haven’t had a meeting for ever so long.
I feel sorry to have things so neglected, for
I think we should be awake and at work
for the general good of mankind, ourselves
included; but it is not my place to make any
move unless so directed. So I wait patiently,
saying good words and encouraging where
ever I can, and feeling assured that all will
be well.							F. S.
	Dear sisters, who have so nobly stepped
forward to stem the tide of arrogance, ignor-
ance, and assumption; seeing in your paper
an invitation to come and do likewise I offer
a few of my scattered ideas for your columns.
My feelings have been aroused, or, in other
words, I have “been set to thinking” by
some remarks I saw in a late paper relative
to “Mormon women awakening up to a full
realization of our grave situation.” Have
we ever been asleep? I trust not. There is
no thinking woman among us but what will
say our situation is grave; has ever been
grave. My mind wanders back in retrospect
to the days when I was “one of Christ’s
little ones, too” and I could give many
things from memory to show that our situa-
tion was grave. The days of anxiety and
nights of fear in Nauvoo; the days of sick-
ness and destitution in the scorching sun,
as we traveled through Illinois, Iowa or
Missouri. When at Council Bluffs the flower
of our little band was taken from us to fight
on the plains of Mexico for the land we now
inhabit—fathers, husbands, and brothers;
and their bones were strewn by the wayside
a sacrifice of loyalty to their country; leav-
ing only the old and infirm, and boys too
young to stand the fatigues of camp life, to
support and protect the women and children.
Our situation then was truly grave. Beneath
burning suns on the sandy plains of the
“great desert,” and amid the chilling cold
and eternal snows of the Rocky Mountains,
it was still grave. We may have tried to
slumber and bury our wrongs in forgetful-
ness, but it was like sleeping in a nest of
mosquitoes; there were too many bills pre-
[new column]
sented (not excepting Cullom’s) to permit us
a peaceful repose.
	But why renew this subject, or repeat
these things? Many are tired of hearing
them, because we are not afraid to open our
mouths and testify to the wrongs we suffered.
How have our affections and hopes been
blighted? I will tell you. When amid all
this privation and sorrow we have reared
our little daughters, according to the best of
our circumstances and ability, they have
been snatched from us by the hands of liber-
tines and villains. When the onward course
of “civilization” has washed its waves on
our rock-bound shores and brought for our
sons the billiard table, the gambling saloons
and the dens of infamy; when the people
would make laws to take from us our hus-
bands and protectors, leaving us a prey to
officers and politicians, the base and- un-
principled, to fill houses of wretchedness
and ill-fame; our children illegitamized, our
names a by-word, then, sisters of Zion, our
hearts may bleed, for that is the system
that strikes at the root of womanhood and
blights our affections and hopes. See our
sons, bright and noble, not disgracing
the image of their Creator! See our daughters,
fair and gentle, types of noble womanhood,
fit to become the mothers of a noble race,
exalted in health, in dignity, in purity and
virtue!  We have obeyed the command-
ments of God and the dictates of our own
conciences, and this is our reward. We are
tender mothers and honored wives. Have
we fainted or faltered by the wayside?
Perhaps we have. How many of our
Christian sisters, fearing pain or dreading
the cares of maternity, have done the same
and committed their names in cowardice
and shame to the grave of oblivion? But to
those who have nobly contended against the
tide of ignorance, error and public opinion—
who have fought the good fight and won
the victory, how great must be their satis-
faction, as they receive the blessings of God
and the approbation of their own hearts!
	PROVO. 						M. J. T.


﻿BROTHERS.
				—
	Girls, are not your brothers generous and
loving to you? It is, unqestionably, very
much your own fault if they are not.
	If brothers are not what they should be,
the influence of good-natured, sweet-tem-
pered, pure-minded sisters has much power
as an incitement to reflection and reform.
Few men are naturally so very vile that
the gentle, persuasive voice and affection-
ate ways of a true woman, have no weight
with them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are
mean, cross, and altogether worthless; and
it is not in the reach of mothers or sisters to
reclaim them. And even such ones some-
times get wives with tender hearts to break.
	I have frequently heard elderly ladies say
to young ones, “Never marry a man who is
not kind, and thoughtful of the welfare and
comfort of his mother or sister.” This is
excellent advice, to which sensible girls
mostly give head. Yet, even such men
are sometimes won over to a beautiful con-
sistency by a prudent, cheerful wife whose
affectionate words and ways are the only
disapprovals he gets for his cross ones. A
man should be as careful in selecting a
wife, if he would enjoy life under the influ-
ence of hymen’s power, not to get one who
is ungrateful, and regardless of her father or
brother’s happiness.
If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who were unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for atten-
tion, he will naturally have acquired the


habit of making refusals, and look to be
found fault with for doing so; and anything
else will seem out of place to him. It is as
unfair for sisters and wives to want to be
petted and indulged all the time to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
and never deign to gratify the wishes of
those who depend so much upon them.
		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, it you must love.
		Love one another.’'
	These words are said to have been found
in a lady’s scrap-book at a hotel. I don’t
like them—they are too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	What should we do without broth-
ers? Those who will confide in us to the
very last; and even ask our advice in
matters that other people might think us
too frivolous and childish to have ever
thought of.
	There is belief in man; and until some
one is found who will take still greater re-
sponsibilities upon himself for your sake,
young lady, cling closely to your brother
and be thankful for him. And if you know
he is not the sort to make a good, noble
husband for some chaste creature, either coy
or dignified, (for all good men cannot be
suitable companions to all good women,
there is so great a variety of tastes and
sentiments,) help him to become so, for
that is what God designed him to be.
								FRANK.


﻿TRUTH WITH CHILDREN.
				—
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not; for of such is the King-
dom of Heaven.”
	These beautiful words of our beloved Re-
deemer, are worthy the contemplation of
every intelligent mind. After living twenty
or thirty years upon the earth, how far have
we receded from the innocence of infancy,
and how carefully and faithfully must we
watch ourselves, to recall its charitable, un-
suspicious and confiding trust!
	How thoughtless are parents ever to take
a course to change and embitter that pure,
heavenly trust in their children! Yet it is
often done, and in various ways. For in-
stance: A mother promises to dress her little
girl’s doll, presently. How often hour after
hour slips away, and still the promise is not
fulfilled. Still the child’s perfect trust in her
mother’s words, keeps her hopeful; and the
little task is postponed, laid aside for some-
thing of more importance, until the entire
day passes, or perhaps two or three days;
and although the promise may be often re-
peated, it is still unfulfilled.
	From such unwise examples children learn,
not only to be distrustful of others, but also
to make promises themselves that they do i
not even intend to perform. In many cases,
older people make a practice of telling chil-
dren what they may consider “white lies,”
to persuade or frighten them into being obo-
dient. But every falsehood that is calcula-
ted to implant within the bosom of a child
seeds of deception and distrust, is a black
one and should be studiously avoided. It is
better to enforce discipline among children
by the firm exercise of parental authority
than to inculcate the poison of deceit into
their young, guileless minds. But to control
them by the gentle powers of firm, cheerful,
yet earnest and truthful persuasion, is better
still.									LUNIE.


WE should guard against small vices as  
well as great errors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LOUISE L GREENE, Editor.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine.  Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
						Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1872.


﻿SPLINTERS.	
				—
	One of the chief objects of attention and
sensational conversation in London, now, is
Gladstone and his great triumph........Miss
Amy Sedgwick, the popular London actress,
will visit this country next season......A
new comedy, in five acts, from George Sand,
is among the recent additions to stage litera-
ture....Elinski, a Polish exile, is lecturing
in Oregon and gives a history of the late
revolution in his own land.......A turkey in
Scipio, New York, has laid one hundred
eggs in one hundred days, never missing a
day......Ochre is used in making bricks and
pottery ware in Kansas.....Senator Brown-
low says if Greeley and Brown are elected
we are placed back where we were in 1861,
when the traitors fired upon Fort Sumpter.
......Boston gave a grand banquet to the
Japanese Embassy, August 2nd......At To-
peka, on the 27th of July, Mrs. Thomas
Mattingley drowned herself and a three
year old child, on account of domestic un-
happiness......The wedding presents of Miss
Nilsson, married in London to M. Boussand
amount, in value, to $60,000....Since the
death of President Juarez, the French think
of renewing diplomatic relations with
Mexico......General Sherman attended th
funeral of the son of the Duke of Aumale at
Paris......Senator Schurz charges Grant with
using Federal arms to influence the States
and overawe them......Heavy mining strikes
are reported in Pioche Dictrict.....About
1,000 acres of cotton was planted in Califor-
nia this season......Disraeli’s wife, Lady Bea-
consfield is ill beyond hope of recovery.....
In a competitive examination at New York,
the nomination for a cadetship at the Na-
val Academy was won by a ragged news-boy.
......A Missouri paper makes calculations
that Grant will receive a majority of
10,000 in that State......The value of the
gold now extant is estimated at upwards of
$5,000,000,000.....All record of the late de-
vastation in Paris is reported to be disap-
pearing......The “American Settler” is the
name of a paper lately started in London....
Among the peasantry in France, it is said,
not one in a hundred can read or write......
A California inventor has produced a rail-
road tie of vegetable fibre, held in asphal-
tum......The contract for building a seminary
to cost one thousand eight hundred and
forty dollars, has been let at Napa, Califor-
nia......Thiers will send one hundred thou-
sand men to suppress the mining riots on
the northern frontier of France,if necessary.
......George E. Pugh, an eminent Ohio Cop-
perhead, tenders his services as a stumper for
Greeley and Brown......One hundred thou-
sand dollars of diamonds are said to have
been lately received in San Francisco, from
New Mexico, discovered years ago by Kit
Carson......A tailor in California, named
Ledig, shot his wife twice the other day.
The wounds are supposed to be mortal; he
then shot himself and expired......A San
Francisco youth, named Harley, has been
committed to trial for burning the faces of
small boys with nitrate of silver......Ex-
tremely hot weather is reported, all through
the 'Western States...... Rumor says the
“colored folks” are nearly all for Greeley....
In company with his family, Greeley will
visit his old home in New Hampshire and
probably remain a month or more.....
A sarcastic paper says the West Point
cadets are pleading to let their moustaches
grow......Independence Hall, in Philadel-
phia, is being restored as nearly as possible
to its condition in 1776......Two men in St.
Charles, Michigan, have become maniacs by
exposure to a hot sun while buggy-riding.
[new column]
......The “diamond fields” of Arizona are the
latest attraction to excited hunters after pre-
cious stones......A Kansas woman has been
paralyzed by the sting of a wasp.......Du-
buque has a religious society for children.
called “The Seeds of Mercy”......A female
horse-thief in male attire has been caught In
Michigan......Bret Hart is said to be engaged
to write one article a month for the “Atlan-
tic” at $10,000 a year......The youngest bride
of the season, at Niagara, is a young lady of
Stonington, Connecticut, aged fourteen. She
left her skipping-rope at home......Nicholas
C. Sennat, a once prosperous merchant who
was ruined by the Chicago fire, committed
suicide in St. Louis recently because of his
reverses......A farmer named Williams was
thrown in front of a mowing machine a few
days ago in Suffolk county, New York, and
was cut to pieces...."Who carried North
Carolina in the late election is still an open
question......A Fon-du-Lac, Wis., woman
has sent a bill of $200 to the saloon keepers
of the town, being the amount legally due
her for a beating inflicted by a drunken
husband......General Banks, of Massachu-
setts, and General Farnsworth, of Illinois,
are among the latest prominent Republicans
that have come out for Greeley.


IGNORANCE AND BIGOTRY.
				——
	The San Francisco “Pioneer,” edited by Mrs.
Emily Pitts Stevens, is devoting some space to
Utah affairs and developing an inordinate
quantity of meaningless sentimentality in
treating of them. The last effort in this direc-
tion, in the issue of the 8th inst., starts out by
asserting that “tyranny and fanatacism go hand
in hand in Utah” which might justly be sup-
plemented by the assertion that ignorance and
bigotry go hand In hand everywhere, and nota-
bly so in the “Pioneer” office. The article in-
dulges in such sweet and loving phrases as
"simple devotee," "unscrupulous tyrant," "the
doctrine of polygamy savoring of every foul at-
tribute of slavery," "this canker upon the body
of Christendom," "humiliations which these
Mormon women bear," "spreading leprosy,"
and so on. The article is one of those tirades
in which strong adjectives are compelled to do
duty for sound reasons. Narrowed down to its
actual value, it is simply half a column of un-
reasoning abuse, for there is not an argument,
nor the shadow of one, in it from the opening
word to the closing sentence. It assumes that
"polygamy" is "a canker upon the body of
Christendom," and like scores of such efforts
rests satisfied with the assumption. The fetid,
festering, gangrene spots upon "the body of
Christendom" are sufficiently numerous to call
for the surgical aid of these would-be doctors of
morality without troubling themselves serious-
ly relative to the marital relations of Utah; but
evidently the "Pioneer" and others of the
same class, are more anxious to hold up their
hands in affected horror against an imaginary
evil and point to an assumedly sickly condition
of society at a distance, than to look upon the
[new column]
pestilence of corruption which surrounds them
at home, striking down the fairest and the
loveliest, victims of man's lust and woman's fol-
ly. The "Pioneer" is terribly exercised because of
the "humiliations these Mormon women bear,
mingled with an inward sense of shame and
outrage;" but as the "humiliations" only exist
in the imagination of the "Pioneer" and others
of like stripe, she can spare her sympathy until
it is solicited. And when she uses the language
"mingled with an inward sense of shame and 
outrage," she is impertinent, and would be in-
sulting if her bigotry were not the result of
ignorance, which few sounding sentences can-
not hide.
	We have closely watched the practical work-
ings of plural marriage for years, having been
brought into daily contact with it; and have
formed very decided opinions on the subject.
And when some of these people who are so fond
of indulging in abuse concerning "the cruelty
of Brigham Young," as this writer phrases it,
and the "downtrodden women of Utah," as
they are pleased to call us, will advance some
solid reasons based on scripture, morality,
physiology, or social science against plural 
marriage, we shall be pleased to weigh them
and give them due consideration. But neither
impertinence, abuse, nor slander will commend
them to our judgment. And when the editor
of the "Pioneer" can point us to as pure, as
happy, and as temperate a community in all
things, where she resides, as can be found in
Utah; to men in whom women can so confide
without having their confidence abused, and to
women as chaste, take them as a whole; then
we may possibly begin to have some faith in
the excellence of theories which the experience
of centuries has proven hollow and worthless.
And, further, when the editor of the "Pioneer"
can point to such a condition of society as a re-
sult of her efforts aiding those "honest preach-
ers" of whom she speaks, we will be prepared
to accord her and them more credit than that of
which the present condition of society indicates
they are worthy.


A RIGHT RECOGNIZED.
				—
Before the women of Utah enjoyed the elec-	
tive franchise those who clamored loudest for 
its being extended to them were parties who
had political "axes to grind," and who were
filled with the bitterest feelings of animosity
against the people of Utah. They foolishly
imagined that if our sex in this Territory had the	
legal right to vote, they could lead us by the arts
which politicians are accustomed to use, to turn	
against men whom we had tested through long
years of trouble and sorrow, and follow their 
lead. Upon no other hypothesis can their urg-
ent demands on Congress to bestow the right of 
suffrage upon us be explained. For when the 
Territorial legislature did enact such a measure,
and it became law by the signature of acting- 
governor Mann and the approval of Congress; 
and when they found that we could think, and
that thinking we intelligently supported the 
candidates of our choice, they were even more
clamorous that Congress should pass a law de-
claring illegal that which they had beforetime
sought to have legalized. They contended that
the exercise of the franchise byus would not stand
the test of the courts, and endeavored to have our
votes declared a nullity. But the decision of the
Supreme Court of the United States in the
Engelbrecht case declared, in plainness, what
power was vested ih a Territorial Legislature.
Then, finding that the highest tribunal of the
country had declared that the acts of the Legis-
lature, when not disapproved by Congress, were
of binding force; and as the elective franchise


was so conferred upon the women of Utah and
was consequently valid, their next move was to
practically recognize that which they had so
violently denied and disputed.  At the general
election, on the 5th inst., the candidate put for-
ward by these same individuals was voted for
by the ladies who would not support the Peo-
ple’s ticket; and thus quietly but pointedly they
acknowledged a right they could no longer gain-
say. But what shall be thought of men who,
knowingly, refuse to recognize every right to
others which they claim to exercise themselves,
and yet talk of their respect for republican gov-
ernment and the glorious principles enunciated
In the Declaration of Independence! Their
political honesty of to-day is on a par with
the “philanthropy” of a few years ago that
urged an extension of the right of suffrage to
the women of Utah; and both are arrant hypoc-
risy!


﻿	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS
			    —
	THE ELECTION has come and gone, and the
majority of votes polled for the People's Ticket
shows that the people were alive to the import-
ance of the occasion.
	THE THEATRE in this city has been re-opened
and is now lighted with gas, which works a
wonderful change in enhancing the appearance
of the interior, and rendering the performances
more pleasant and agreeable.
	INDIAN DIFFICULTIES in the Sanpete region
are threatened; and yet the Indians say they
only want a little food and some blankets. Has
Government suddenly grown poor? Or does it
tie the hands of the Indian agent so that he is un-
able to do anything for these "red wards" of the
"great father?"
	AN ABUNDANT harvest has blessed the agri-
culturists of Utah this year, as a general thing;
and though grasshoppers have caused destruc-
tion in some parts of Summit and Morgan
counties, there is much cause for thankfulness
that the scourge has been limited when com-
pared with the past few years.
	MATTERS ARE progressing for the erection of
water works in this city, and the work of sur-
veying for laying the piping has commenced.
The water will be carried from City creek to the
principal parts of the city, in sufficient volume
to meet any demand for extinguishing fires,
and for household uses, being purified and
filtered in its passage from the creek for the
latter purpose. It is an important improve-
ment.
	PREPARATIONS ARE being made for a Terri-
torial Fair, to be held in this city on the 3rd,
4th, and 5th of October next. We hope the
ladies will do as they have done at previous
Fairs; let it be seen how much their handiwork
aids in home development, It will be an excel-
lent opportunity for the Relief Societies to show
speciments of work which willing hands, in-
spired by warm hearts, do in the cause of benev-
olence.
	A FEARFUL crime is reported from Weber 
county. Two little boys seized a young girl
who was out hunting a cow on horseback, drag-
ged her from the horse, violated her person after
she had violently struggled against them, and
then pushed her into a slough where she was
drowned, because she said she said would tell
her mother. The heart sickens while thinking of
the deed, and every feeling of humanity and
justice asks, what punishment should the crim-
inals receive. They are in prison.
	AN IMPRESSION prevails in some places that
subscriptions for the EXPONENT can only com-
mence with the beginning of a volume. This
[2nd column]
﻿is a mistake which we wish to correct. There
are no continued articles in the EXPONENT, and
subscriptions can begin at any time. Those
who subscribe will receive the paper for the
term for which they pay, whether six months
or a year, commencing with the number which
they first receive. The only continued article
yet published was the history of the first organ-
ization of the Female Relief society in Nauvoo,
by Sister Eliza R. Snow, which appeared in
the first and second numbers; and this, as we
we have before stated, it is the intention to re-
publish at an early day, that those who did not
receive the numbers in which it appeared may
be enabled to obtain it. The rapid increase in
circulation of the EXPONENT is most gratify-
ing, and if the friends of the little journal will
continue to assist us as they have done, we
hope by the close of the present volume to make
such improvements in it as will render it in
every way more efficient in accomplishing the
objects for which it was started. While thank-
ing all who have aided in extending its circula-
tion for their efforts in its behalf, we would still
request a continuance of those efforts, until the
EXPONENT is found in every family in Utah.


﻿FROM ST GEORGE.
			—
	ST. GEORGE, July 25th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I, for one appreciate and admire the EX-
PONENT, and with pleasure note your energy,
progress and success, in this enterprise—
the voice of the “downtrodden;”' I being
one of them, speak whereof I know.
	St. George though not a great, populous,
nor yet an extensively commercial city, is
one of the handsomest and most quiet and
pleasant of all the cities of Utah. Our build-
ings, enclosures and other improvements,
generally and specially, show taste in de-
sign, and skill in workmanship, and may we
not generally reckon the intellectual status
of a place by its taste and industry? I think
so, and so I like St. George. Yesterday was
celebrated here by all citizens and many
visitors with much energy and zeal, our
sex having taken a prominent part. I send
you a copy of the programme which was
fully carried out, and I herewith enclose
copy of address, read by Miss Woodbury on
the occasion, composed by Miss Cottam and
Miss Woodbury. Its reading, elicited rounds
of applause, and congratulations for the au-
thors. The coronation ceremonies were
quite formal and imposing and one of the
finest features of the celebration.
				—
			ADDRESS
ON BEHAlF OF THE TWENTY-FOUR YOUNG LADIES.
				—
	“Having descended from a glorious ances-
try whose historic annals embrace the re-
gal power of David and his successors, the
princely Integrity of Joseph, and the beauti-
ful and devout Queen Esther who plead for
exiled Israel; as heirs of the same royal line
we have been brought to this goodly land.
	We have chosen and crowned our Queen,
and gladly celebrate the day that, through
our fathers, we enjoy the freedom of these
mountains and valleys. As daughters of
Zion we wish to demonstrate the apprecia-
tion of our rights and privileges. Removed
from the contaminating vices of the world,
in the peaceful vales of Deseret, surrounded
by our fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters,
and those who are near and dear to us, we
can live in the peaceful enjoyment of the
blessings which have been so bountifully
bestowed upon us. We are looked upon by
the women of the world, as not enjoying
the rights and privileges that they enjoy,
and as being degraded and downtrodden.
[2nd column]
What they consider a curse we consider a
blessing; and what they consider as de-
grading, we count as elevating. They pre-
fer to live in luxury and elegance, scarce
considering the degrading means adopted
to bring these; while we prefer becoming
honorable wives and mothers in Israel. Can
we be considered as degraded while enjoy-
ing the respect and esteem of honorable
men and women, and the confidence and
love of all we hold most dear? Let
disinterested persons answer and judge,
whether it is the women of Utah or those of
the world that need pity and condolence.
What greater blessings can woman wish for,
than we enjoy? True, we do not possess the
useless fineries and elegancies of the fashion-
able world; yet we have that which is of far
greater value to us—the enjoyment of our
religion, and the society and confidence of
the truly good—the saints of God; which is
more to us than all the pleasures that wealth
can afford. We live in innocence and sim-
plicity, and with industry and frugality, en-
joy with a clear conscience the comforts re-
sulting from industry, by the kindness of
our great Father.
	The world may have its own ideas of com-
fort; we have ours, and wish to enjoy them
unmolested. As for their sympathy, it has
oftener been shown in murdering our
Prophets and best men, and driving us and
dispoiling us of our property, than other-
wise.
	All we now ask, in the name of our
Queen, is liberty of thought, liberty of ac-
tion and the privilege of serving God accord-
ing to the dictates of our own consciences,
and our holy religion, which by the help of
the great King of Israel, we are determined
to sustain.”
	Weather is very warm and dry, mercury
going up to over 100° daily and sometimes
105°. We have very fine ripe peaches,
plums, pears and apples; and grapes of earli-
est kinds begin to ripen. All these are de-
licious at the cool evening hour, when fra-
grance from the rose and lily and a thousand
other flowers is wafted by the breeze that
gently stirs the foliage overhead, of our
“vine and fig tree,” the almond, prune,
acacia and the elm; after the fierce solar
heat has departed. Although some of the
“downtrodden women of Utah” might wish
to escape for a day with their “masters” to
the shady mountain glen, hear the sighing
of the pines, and take draughts from the pure
nectar springs, we know of none who wish
to make a wider escape from their “tyrant
husbands,” nor to leave far behind the fine
fruits, beautiful flowers and delicious even-
ings of our “Dixie;” and I may be pardoned
for here observing that although the “pecu-
liar institution” of our people is here widely
practiced (as any one might surmise by the
great number of childres of all ages exhibited
in the procession yesterday), we never
knew a more quiet, orderly cormmunity, or
one where less domestic troubles were ex-
perienced.						FLORA.
	The programme of the days proceedings
sent us, is highly interesting but too
lengthy for publication in our columns.—ED.


“I HEV allurs observed that a whining
dog is sure to get lickt in a fight. No cur
of well reggerlated morals kan resist the
temptation to bite a cowardly purp that tries
to sneak off with his tale between his legs.
The whinin’ business man is just so. A
good ringing bark is wuth more to put green-
bax in a man’s pocket than forty-two years
of whinin’ ”.—“Josh Billings.”


﻿SENSE shines, with a double lustre, when
it is set in humanity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ABOUT WOMEN.
			_____
	THE ladies of Albany are about to organ-
ize a Grant and Wilson Club.
	MRS. Greeley is said to be unable to walk,
and is in such poor health as to give Gree-
ley great anxiety about her.
	MRS. Stowe is announced for public read-
ings at New Haven in the Fall. She is
spending the Summer at Hampton Beach.
	THERE are six ordained female pastors in
the Universalist Church in the United
States. This is the only church where wo-
men are admitted to ordination.
	BY a new law, married women in Penn-
sylvania may purchase sewing-machines
without the consent of their husbands, and
the contract will be binding.
	MRS. Lincoln, the widow of the President,
has presented to the State of Illinois a very
valuable oil portrait of the late Colonel E.
D. Baker, a favorite son of Illinois.
	LAURA De Force Gordon is making her-
self famous in the East as an earnest and
eloquent pleader for the cause of Human
Rights.
	SOME Detroit women, of the practical
missionary stamp, lately visited a sick and
widowed neighbor, shingled her house,
planked her side-walk, picketed her fence,
painted one room and papered two, and split
and piled a load of slab wood.
	“HENRIETTA,” said a landlady to her
new girl, “when there’s bad news, particu-
larly private afflictions, always let the board-
ers know it before dinner. It may seem
strange to you, Henrietta, but such things
make a great difference in the eating in the
course of a year.”
	A MARRIED woman of the Shawnee
Indians made this beautiful reply to a man
whom she met in the woods, and who im-
plored her to love and look on him: “Old
man, my husband, who is forever before my
eyes, hinders me from seeing you, or any
other person.
	AN unhappy citizen of Cleveland, was re-
cently entrusted by his wife with the fol-
lowing message to her dressmaker: “Tell
her, dear, that if she thinks it would look
better with ten bias flounces without puff-
ing, and box plaited below the equator,
which should be hem-stitched gudgeons up
and down the seams, with a gusset stitch
between, she can make it up in that way in-
stead of fluting the bobinette insertion, and
piecing out with point applique as I sug-
gested yesterday.”
	A YOUNG HEROINE.—The Royal Humane
Society has awarded its medal, with suita-
ble testimonials, to a young woman, named
Annie Lord, the daughter of a bathing at-
tendant at Lynmouth, Devonshire, who, at
the imminent risk of her  life, saved a
young lady, named Fremlin from drowning.
The circumstances, as elicited by the Com-
mittee of the Society, were briefly as follows:
	Miss Fremlin, accompanied by another
lady, her sister-in-law, went into the sea to
bathe. The sea was very rough at the time,
as it was just after the turn of the tide, and
Miss Fremlin’s companion was struck by a
wave and carried out of her depth. Miss
Fremlin immediately hastened to her assist-
ance, but was herself swept out to sea, and
was in imminent danger of drowning, as no
one was near who was able to swim. Their
perilous position was witnessed by the bath-
ing attendant, who shouted for assistance,
when Annie Lord, who was in a cottage
near, hearing her mother’s cries for help,
ran to the rescue of the two ladies. She
undressed herself as she ran, divesting her-
[2nd column]
self of everything but her chemise, and
bravely plunged into the water. In the
meantime a crowd of people gathered on 
the beach with ropes, etc., but none were
bold enough to swim out. This, however,
Annie Lord did, and soon reached Miss 
Fremlin, who by this time had been carried
some distance out, and was perfectly help-
less, although her companion, whom she
had endeavored to save, had by this time
struggled to shallow water. Grasping Miss
Fremlin by her hair, Annie Lord supported
her, and swam, pushing the drowning lady
before her towards the shore; but Miss
Fremlin was quite insensible, and but for
the heroic perseverance of the young wo-
man, Annie Lord, must have inevitably
been drowned. The other lady, too, was
happily saved.


﻿SIMILARITIES.
				____
	When quite young, I remember reading a
story of some physicians, who experimented
on a young man, to ascertain if it were pos-
sible to frighten a person into a disease, of
which no symptoms were manifest, by mak-
ing him believe that he had taken the dis-
ease and was likely to die in consequence.
They made a joke of the experiment, car-
ried it a good way, and the poor boy was
actually scared into a fit of sickness, while
in a state, physically, of perfect health.
	To-day, while reading some articles, this
little anecdote was brought to my mind, and
I mentally compared our would-be physi-
cians, the moral, highminded (!) people of
the day, to those experimentists. We are,
in a word, all right, but these quacks would
like to frighten us into hysterics over our
situation,and make us believe we are crushd,
trampled on, benighted, and about to die.
One of them, (a lady editor,) says in an art-
icle headed “The wolf in sheep’s clothing,”
“Mormon women are powerless to help them-
selves out of their Church ; it is sad to say
that some of them are so blinded by ignor-
ance and bigotry as to consider that they are
serving God by suffering daily in this state
of polygamy; but even those who are en-
dowed with a higher order of intelligence,
and who would hail freedom from polygamy,
as did the Southern slave the emancipation
proclamation, dare not lift up their voices
against this incubus which is weighing
them down to servitude and degradation.
  	*	*	*	*	*	*
Let every reformer north, south, east and
west, come to the rescue of these Mormon
women, and hurl this Goliah to the earth.”
	Now, if we could only be brought to con-
sider that we are laboring under a terrible
“incubus, which is weighing, us down to
servitude and degradation;” as the strong,
heathy boy was made to see that his face
was spotted and swollen, his eyes red and
dilated with spotted fever, what a grand
terminus for the experiments of our would-
be physicians! “Ye Doctors, heal yonr-
selves!”								G.


﻿WHY WOMEN ARE WEAK.
				—
	When we consider what an intricate system
of defiance to all known physiological laws
a woman’s dress has become; the tender age
at which this defiance begins, and the re-
lentless pressure of it upon the formative
and the recuperative energies of the consti-
tution; the murderous thinness and scanti-
ness of her underdress; the effect of the ab-
sence of flannels, and the custom of baring
the neck and arms, upon the sensitive tis-
sues of the lungs and heart; the check to all
even circulation of the blood and healthy
condition of the skin inflicted by the imper-


feet and compressed covering of her feet
and hands; the unhealthy heat of the head,
consequent on the manner in which custom
requires her to collect her hair into a wad
of padding at the base of the brain; the
clasp of a rack of steel and whalebone about
all the vital organs of the body; the straight- 
jacket snap with which the seams of her
dress meet about her shoulders, arms and
chest; the results inevitable upon making
the hips the pivot upon which her heavy
clothing is hung, and the fulcrum upon
which all the motion of her body must
swing when walking—if, indeed, we apply
that term to the infantile toddle to which wo-
men are driven to get about the world;
above all, the unreasonable and cruel custom
which compels her to drop heavy skirts
about her lower limbs and feet, thus en-
dangering  her life on all occasions, her
health on any but a dry summer day, and 
her self-reliance forever; when we consider
the extent to which the common occupa-
tions of a woman deprive her of the open
air, of exercise, of change of scene, of ac-
quaintance with the world; of the extent to
which they are adapted to produce all the
varieties of sedentary disease; when we con- 
sider the unlimited influence of the mind
upon the body, of happiness upon health, and
the brooding morbidness and acute suffering
which the lives of women so largely induce
in them—shall we find it a matter of sur-
prise that women as a race are diseased and
feeble, and are bestowing upon the world 
a future legacy of diseased and feeble chil-
dren? Shall we wrap this ruined creature 
away in a shawl to die, and say, with sor-
rowful assurance: “Behold woman as God
made her?”
	Woman as God made her! As man and
the devil and her own cowardice have made
her! God never made such women as are
cradling the next generation in this land to- 
day. Side by side with “female illiteracy”
female feebleness is running a race among
us. Neglected brains and tortured bodies
are working their own way upon our actual
and possible mothers. Thoughtful physicians
are perplexed and alarmed. We are a
beautiful, useful and elevated order of ani- 
mals; the world has done the right thing by
us; it stalled and fed us; it has petted and
praised us; who can complain?—Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps.


﻿THE GARDEN FOR WOMEN.
	There is nothing better, says the Ohio 
“Farmer,” for wives and daughters phys-
ically than to have the care of a garden; a
flower-pot if nothing more. What is more
pleasant than to spend a portion of every day
in working among plants and watching the
growth of shrubs and trees and herbage, and
to observe the opening of flowers, from
week to week, as the season advances?
Then how much it adds to the enjoyment to
know that your own hands have planted and
tilled them and have pruned and trained
them. This is a pleasure that requires
neither great riches nor profound know-
ledge. The wife or daughter, who loves
home, and would seek ever to make it the
best place for husband or brother, is willing
to forego some gossiping morning calls for
the sake of having leisure for the cultiva-
tion of plants, shrubs and flowers. The ad-
vantages which women personally derive
from stirring the soil and snuffing the morn-
ing air are freshness and beauty of cheek
and brightness of eye, cheerfulness of
temper, vigor of mind, and purity of heart.
Consequently she is more cheerful and
lovely as a daughter, more dignified and
womanly as a sister, and more attractive and
confiding as a wife.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DON’T ALWAYS FLIRT.
					—
Don't always flirt; dearest Bessie, believe me,
	You will repent it some day if you do;
Come, now, as some sage old mentor receive me,
	Take my advice, lest your conduct you rue.
Perhaps it’s good fun young men’s feelings to hurt.
Don’t always flirt, though, Bess—don’t always flirt.

True, you can count your fond slaves, dear, by
		dozens—
	All the young men you have got at your feet;
True, you are worshiped by all your male cousins,
	True, all the “belles” of the season you’ve beatl
Granted all this, Bess! you may be too curt,
Too great a flirt, Bessie—too great a flirt!

Time is going on, darling, seasons are hastening;
	Pardon me, but even you must grow old;
Think, now; if you are not good chances wasting;
	Don’t, now, I pray you, imagine me bold.
Really, though, I must my words assert,
Don’t always flirt, Bessie—don’t always flirt!

Young men who now gladly bear your caprices,
	Slaves who’re too happy to suffer your slights,
Perhaps as their knowledge of women increases,
	May not so willingly give up their rights!
Men may be ready to rudely out blurt,
You are a flirt, Bessie—you are a flirt!

Come, then, at present you have half society
	Only too glad to find grace in your eyes;
Have you not, then, had enough of variety?
	Cannot you settle to one, and be wise?
Don’t treat us always as though we were dirt.
Don’t always flirt, Bessie—don’t always flirt!

If I might venture—I know it’s audacious—
   To push my own claims, why, then, Bessie, ma
	chere,
I should be charmed, indeed, if you’d be gracious,
	And trust your dear self from henceforth to my
		care;
Promising only, all rows to avert,
That you wont flirt, Bessie—that you won’t flirt.


﻿A THUNDER STORM ON THE MISSIS-
				SIPPI.
				  —
		[FROM A LADY’S SCRAP BOOK.]
	I shall never forget that night of terror!
How the thunders crashed and the waters 
roared! How the forked lightning flashed
and gleamed, and the boat rolled and tossed
on the river, and how intensely dark the
night was! There were no empty berths
for us to lie down in, and had there been,
what sleep or rest could have been taken!
I had never before witnessed a storm in
America, and, possibly, for that reason it all
seemed more dreadful to me than it might
have done had I been accustomed to such
terrific thunderings and lightnings.
	During the storm—O, it is so horrify-
ing to think of the awful calamity which
befell my poor sister Helen! Her little
daughter followed her father on deck, but
not noticing, he returned without her. We
never saw her again. It was supposed she
walked over board into that angry river.
No trace of her could be found. Though
she could not have existed more than a
minute in the dashing waters we imagined
the little arms which could not have been
seen in the darkness, reaching out for help,
and the childish voice which could not have
been heard in the midst of the roar of the
storm and the waters, calling on us for aid,
long, long after the storm abated and the
day dawned upon us.
	The little one’s sufferings could not have
been much—but the parents—O, how heart-
rending to witness their distress!


﻿THE noblest deeds of many great men’s
lives are private benefactions performed for
humble, undistinguished individuals, of
which the world keeps no account.


IT is said that the Millerites, at Foxboro,
Massachusetts, expected the world to come
to an end July 3rd, and they put on their
robes and waited. But they soon discovered
as the world went on as usual, that they had
made a mistake in their ciphering.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
			____
	THE French Assembly adjourned on the
4th.
	Gris, the “Fat Contributor,” has started
a weekly paper in Cincinnati.
	There are seventeen newspapers in Jap-
an, the youngest one having been started
in April.
	A skull twenty-six inches in circumfer-
ence above the ears has been dug up at Du-
buque, Iowa.
	The Irish band has split, some sailing for
home with the leader, and the others re-
maining in this country.
	General Berdan, of sharpshooting fame,
is trying to induce the Czar of Russia to buy
more of his guns.
	In Australia spring begins August 20th;
summer, November 20th; autumn, February,
20, and winter, May 20th.
	The magnificent railway station at Metz
was burned, making the fourth large fire in
that city within twelve months.
	Governor Brown still sticks to the opin-
ion that Grant will only carry three States,
all the Radical press to the contrary not-
withstanding.
	Rock Island has tested her new Holly
water works and is delighted over the re-
sults. The capacity of the works is 2,000,-
000 gallons in twenty-four hours.
	John T. Wood, Assistant Postmaster of
Indianapolis, Ind., has been discovered to
be a defaulter to the amount of $4,000 or
$5,000. He has been arrested and bailed.
	The veteran financial editor in the Uni-
ted States is Sailer, of the Philadelphia
“Ledger.” He has written the money
articles of that journal for a period of thirty-
two years and over.
	The brother of Miss Vinnie Ream, the
sculptress and pet of Congress, has been
sentenced by the United States Court at Fort
Smith, Arkansas, to serve six months in the
penitentiary at Little Rock and pay a fine of
$1,000 for selling liquor in the Indian
Nation.
	Six of the members of the New York 
Republican Commitiee have resigned and
declared for Greeley and Brown. The last
of the six is Mr. Wallace Tappan, of Syra-
cuse, who is well known to prominent Re-
publicans.
	Major General Mott, formerly of the
United States army, but now Major General
of the Egyptian army, and aid-de-camp to
the Viceroy, is on a visit to this country,
and was presented to Secretary Belknap by
Acting Secretary Richardson.
	In Gold Hill District, eight miles north-
west of Bowlder, Colorado, what is termed
a mica mine has been discovered. The vein
commences near the surface, extends down-
ward and appears to be about three feet in
thickness. Sheets of it are obtained near
half a foot square, thin as tissue and as
transparent as glass.
	Ashtabula County, the old home of Mr.
Giddings, in Ohio, is the strongest Republi-
can County in that State, but its Republican
newspaper of largest circulation supports
Greeley and Brown, and at least 20 per cent.
of the Republicans are already counted as
sure for the ticket.
	The girls of the St. Louis Normal School,
it is stated, all wear calico dresses; and if
they continue the same sensible practice
through life they will make all the better
wives, and mothers setting an excellent ex-
ample before their daughters.


﻿	PEN AND SCISSORS.
				—
	MANY errors which we see in others we
convert into virtues in ourselves.
	HATS with thermometers in the roof are
the latest invention. If the mercury gets
too high you stand on your head until your
equilibrium is restored.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester, a
former student of Vassar College, and Miss
Sophia B. Fleming, of Ithaca, N. Y., are the
first lady students at Cornell.
	AN intelligent writer, closes a letter to his
employer thus, “I remain very sincerely,
your friend and mule puncher, J. I.”
	“HAVE you had an invitation to the
ball?” asked a bashful gentleman of a young
lady. “Yes sir,” said the lady, to which
he replied hastily, “O! well, I did not come
to invite you, I only thought I’d like to
know if you were going to be there.”
	MR. J. J. Adams and the late Surveyor
General, and now Senator, Mr. Phineas Post
Office Hitchcock, had an interview on the
streets of Omaha.
	P. W. H.—“Did I ever pay you five cents
for a vote, Mr. Adams?”
	A.—“You never did, but I sold you two
votes for the Senate, and the bargain was
made in the presence of United States Dis-
trict Judge E. S. Dundy and Hon. John I.
Redick. Do you dare to deny it? If you
do, you and I for it.”
	The redoubtable Senator did not deny the
assertions of Adams, who makes good his
statements to Dr. Child and Judge Hyde,
and crams them down the throat of Hitch-
cock himself.—“Omaha Herald.”
	M. D. CONWAY says that Miss Kate Field’s
successful after-dinner venture in London
will probably have the effect of breaking
down prejudices against female post-pran-
dial privileges.
	MR. Proctor thinks that the great explo-
sion on the sun, witnessed by Prof. Young
in September last, indicated a force sufficient
to project matter beyond the sphere of solar
attraction. His opinion strengthens the
hypothesis that many of our meteors were
ejected by the sun.
	SAYS the “Golden Age,” The courtesies
of the White House, during the next Ad-
ministration, will be administered by Miss
Ida Greeley, the Presindnt’s handsome
daughter, a sweet little woman of the most
winsome kind.
	OF the sixty-four chemical elements
which compose our globe, nineteen have
been found in meteorites, and as no single
element has been discovered in them which
was not previously known on earth, it is
supposed that the most distant parts of the
universe are similar in composition to our
sphere.
	THE Sacramento “Daily Union” says:
“The Gentile sisters at Salt Lake City wear
silks at church-goings and flash their
diamonds in the eyes of their Mormon sis-
ters. The female adherents of the prophet
don’t like the contrast very much.”
	Dont they, indeed! If any one has
noticed an expression of sadness on the face
of a humble, plainly attired Mormon lady
while coming in contact with her gaudily
dressed “Gentile sister,” it has been elicited
by feelings of sympathy for the poor, unin-
telligent creature who can so inconsiderately
waste time and money.
	MRS. MARY F. SNOW, of the Pacific Slope
Woman Suffrage Convention, says that a
great many more men than women, propor-
tionately, seem to realize the necessity and
favor the enfranchisement of women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN a little village in Vermont there lived
a farmer named Ransom. They were not
pious people—father of the reprobate order;
in fact, they never went to church. Once,
however, the family were prevailed upon to
attend preaching. When they made their
reluctant and tardy appearance the services
had begun, and they had hardly taken their
seats when the preacher gave out the first
hymn, reading it somewhat thus: “Return,
ye ransom sinners home.” “All right,” cried
the head of the Ransoms, getting in a rage
and clapping his hat on his head. “Come
along, ole woman and gals, we’ll go home
fast enough, and everybody in this ole church
knows we didn’t want to come.”
	MEDICAL societies are warned not to ask
a certain Western minister to preach for 
them. He has this text ready: “In his
disease Asa sought not to the Lord, but to
the physicians. And Asa slept with his
fathers.”
	THE ENGLISH papers have ceased deriding
the Tichborne claimant, and admit that his
his case is “rising almost to its former dig-
nity and interest.”
	“A WOMAN lives for love alone,” but love
must come in a variety of forms, such as ma-
terial for clothing, and bread and butter, &c.
Praises and kisses “alone” will not suffice.


Z. C. M. I.

	RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

	We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
			
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated 
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
	Children's Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
	While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.
					—
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup't.

LADIES :
			—
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town.  Call and see.

WEED SEWING MACHINES.

		Stitch Alike on Both Sides.
The Lightest Running
			SHUTTLE MACHINE
									In the World.
	Sews Fine and Coarse. No Springs nor Cogs. No
taking, apart to. Oil or Clean it.
	Send for Circular to 97 Kimball Block, Salt Lake
City								IRA	PFOUTZ,	Ag’t.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
[new column]
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street. Three doors west of 
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant 
Store, Salt Lake City.
			Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LADIES' BAZAR.
		MRS. WILKINSON,
FASHIONABLE MILLINER AND DRESSMAKER.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Millinery, Straw
Goods, and all kinds of fancy and Staple Dry Goods.
	Sole agent for the Territory for M'me Demorest's
reliable paper patterns. Orders from the country so-
licited; patterns sent by mail. Removed to the new 
Establishment, 1st South St., next door west of Z. C.
M. I. Wholesale Dry Goods Department.

			JOHNSON'S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES!

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe by removing 
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or 
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in 
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF  LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

	These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at

	ZION'S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.
	
	If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to 
send for them.
	
	Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.	
	
	AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						   St. George, Utah.
	
[new column]


	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing, labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.	
	
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.	
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance: 		
  1Copy one year,     $2.00	1 Copy six months,    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents.
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and  subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent . 		

VOL. I. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1872.


NEWS AND VIEWS.

	IT IS now generally conceded that the
colored vote of the country will be cast
almost solid for Grant.
	PARIS HAS nearly six thousand less of
population now than in 1866. War is a ter-
rible enemy to population.
	MAINE HOLDS its election on the 9th inst.
Both the Grant and Greeley parties are
making strenuous efforts to secure a victory.
 	THE CLERGYMEN of Wilmington, Dela-
ware, are on a "strike," demanding new
terms for attending funerals. What next!
	CAMP MEETINGS are in full blast through 
the country, yet the ranks of the uncon-
verted are but little thinned, while religious
insanity increases.
	THE GENEVA board of arbitrators, to set-
tle the difficulties between England and
America, are reported nearly through their
work. At last!
	CARLYLE SAYS he has no faith in any
man now controlling public affairs. This is
hard on Blanton Duncan of the "straight
out" Democrats.
	J. P. NEWMAN and Henry Ward Beecher
favor croquet. There is one other thing,
besides Grant, on which they are in accord.
Is this the foreshadowing of the millen-
nium?
	THE DIAMOND mania has reached Salt 
Lake, and "gem-hunting expeditions" are
moving towards the borders of New Mexico
and Arizona. Expeditions to hunt the dia-
monds of truth are still scarce.
	THE ELEMENTAL war raged furiously in
many parts of the east during last month,
and numerous deaths from lightning were
reported. Are the elements preparing to
"melt with fervent heat?"
	THEODORE TILTON says U. S. Grant and
Horace Greeley drink more whiskey than 
any other two men in the United States,
and that Greeley doesn't drink a drop. The-
odore is more pointed than polite.
	FIFTY thousand dollars, Mr. Stanley says,
his Livingstone expedition cost the New 
York "Herald," and now the question is
being asked, what is to be the paying result
of the discovery? Mercenary age!
	THE ITALIAN Republicans are split into
two factions, the Mazzinians and Interna-
tionalists, each hostile to the other, and
both hostile to the Government; and thus
the democracy of Europe emulate that of 
the United States.
	THE San Francisco "Pioneer," woman's
rights paper, repudiates Grant and Greeley,
and strongly advocates George Francis
Train for President. Unfortunately women, 
in States, are yet powerless at the polls, and
the sisterhood can do but little for the "next
President of America."
	IT IS reported that two millions of people
have already perished by the famine in Per-
sia, of whom one hundred thousand have
died in the city of Teheran alone. And yet
how little do we hear of its horrors? And 
what is being done to relieve the suffering 
and dying? Is the charity of Christian na-
tions asleep?
	THE TEMPERANCE party is troubled
whether to support General Grant, who it
is admitted uses alcoholic liquors, or Horace
Greeley, who is a total abstainer; and re-
gret that neither the Philadelphia nor Balti-
more conventions put a temperance plank 
in their platforms. To be consistent they 
should support the cold water candidate.
	A COLORED prayer meeting was "arrest-
ed" in Richmond, Virginia, on August 19;
and "parson, deacons, converts, penitents,
brethren and sisters" were rudely conveyed
to the police station on a charge of disor-
derly conduct, where the Judge discharged
them with the injunction to "go and sin no
more!" Probably they were practicing 
camp meeting religion.
	LOVE and patriotism are made to play 
severely against each other in Alsace and 
Lorraine, the departments wrested from
France during the late war. The German 
government has informed the ladies of
those departments, that the brothers and 
lovers of such of them as are most violent
in their demonstrations of hostility to Ger-
many, will be selected to serve in the Ger-
man army after the 1st of October. This is
the refinement of tyranny.
	SECRETARY Boutwell made a speech dur-
ing the North Carolina canvass, which is
likely to work serious consequences. He
endeavored to rekindle the bitter feelings of 
the war, and urged upon the negroes that
the success of the Conservative party would
result in their being placed back in slavery. 
The feelings of animosity caused by such
political speeches, are strong enough to pro-
voke, at no very distant day, a war of races
which might become even more terrible
than the war of secession.
	MR. CLAGGETT, Delegate in Congress
from Montana, who manifested such bitter-
ness during the last session against the Mor-
mons, sought re-election at the hands of his
constituents last month, and was respect-
ably shelved, Mr. Maginnis, his opponent,
being elected by a handsome majority.
After the 4th of next March Mr. Claggett
may air his anti-Mormon views anywhere
he pleases—except in Congress. He has 
been retired with Colfax, Cullom, Bingham
and others. "The mills of the Gods grind
slowly."
	IT IS reliably stated that at Niles, Michi-
gan, recently, a white girl desiring to marry
a negro, and being unable to take the oath 
that she had negro blood in her, tapped the 
arm of her sable lover with a penknife,
sopped a piece of bread in his blood, swal-
lowed it, hurried to the magistrate’s office,
swore that she had negro blood in her, and 
was married. Whatever may be thought
of her determination, her taste was ex-
ecrable; but she was bent on legal miscege-
nation, and cheated the law by an evasion 
which amounted to perjury.
	MR. GREELEY made a political speech at
Portland, Maine, on the 14th of August,
 the first he made since his dual nomination;
and of it the New York "Herald," which
has until lately been a strong administra-
tion paper, says, it "will disappoint those
who seem to believe that it is impossible
for a man of genius and talent to talk in a
practical sensible manner." And, again,
"the speech is a neat, shrewd, little affair,
and will not harm the liberal candidate."
It was a candid, manly, honest statement of
facts, and a denial of several political calum-
nies uttered against him.
	THE savants of Zurich, Switzerland, are
somewhat narrow-minded. The professors
of the University in that city, being unani-
mously opposed to the admission of further
female students, intend to apply to the fed-
eral government of the republic for a bill
restricting the rights of studentship to
males. Why do they not go a little further, 
and restrict the number of males? These
antiquated specimens of book-worms do not
seem to be aware that the world moves, and
that woman is asserting her right to the 
possession of knowledge; a right which all
progressive minds are now freely conceding.
	STRANGE, is it not, that Charles Sumner,
so long the favored son of Massachusetts,
should be berated by the press of the State
in the most bitter manner! But such is
popular favor. The idol of to-day is to-
morrow flung in the dust and trampled un-
der foot. Even the negroes, in whose behalf
the better part of Sumner's sixty-two years
has been spent, turn against him and repu-
diate him. And all this because he will
not play demagogue, but looking at the
present and future of the country as a states-
man, he sees danger in the policy of the
administration, and declares his hostility
to it.
	THE METHODIST Book Concern, of New
York, the rascality connected with which 
raised such a stench through the country a
short time ago, objects to a Greeley and
Brown banner in front of the building, and
asks for its removal. Dr. J. P. Newman,
who was so anxious to make political capi-
tal out of the discussion with Professor Or-
son Pratt in this city, and so signally failed,
is doubtless among those who are at the
bottom of this bit of spleen, as he is endeav-
oring to manipulate the Methodist church
for the re-election of President Grant. "No
union of politics and religion" has been a
favorite cry with many of the enemies of 
the "Mormon" people; yet such union is 
very distinct, and being used for personal
purposes with considerable effect, during
the present Presidential campaign.
	FEARFUL RIOTS have occurred in Belfast,
the chief city of the north of Ireland. Com-
mencing on the 15th of August they con-
tinued for a week, during which a
number of lives were lost and a vast amount 
of property was destroyed. The rioters
were Protestant and Roman Catholic mobs.
that in their zeal to prove the superiority
of their respective creeds, shed blood, pil-
laged and destroyed. And each party pro-
fesses to believe in the Prince of Peace; in
a gospel of love and salvation! And to
show that they do so, they act like fiends,
trampling every God-like principle under-
foot, and practicing a faith of hate, revenge
and murder! No wonder infidelity grows
among intelligent men and women who are
unacquainted with the gospel of truth; for
who could intelligently consider such acts,
and reflect that the teachings of priests and 
clergymen have caused them, without being
satisfied that there was something radically
wrong in the systems which produce such
results.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TO MY PEN.
				—
And shall I take thee up again, old friend,
And in the cause of truth my weak voice blend; 
Remove from off thy point the gathering rust
And to the weary whisper hope and trust ?
I know the value of a word of cheer,
For strongest hearts grow faint; but God is near,
Guiding our frail barks through the darkest storm,
And while we trust to him we’ro safe from harm.

Methinks I hear thee say again to-day—
“Better to work than rust; this life away;
Better to plant, although it seem in vain;
The seed may reach good soil and grow again.”

The field is broad and long, the workers few
Whose hands are willing and whose hearts are
	true;
And none but such the harvest Master calls
His grain to garner ere the tempest falls—

His storm of wrath, upon the sin-stained world:
Where wrong has gained the power and truth been
	hurled
From her high throne, and crushed and trampled
	down—
Come, all ye brave and help regain her crown.

Long has the cry been sounding in my ear,
Long have I seen the pain, the bitter tear,
Wrung from the suff'ring ones on life’s hard road,
Who onward struggle ’neath sin’s heavy load.

We're weak, my pen, but then Truth's Leader’s
	strong.
And unto her must yield all powers of wrong;
If her defenders be but true and brave,
Truth will not always be a fettered slave.
										H.


﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				  —
	The following, under date of August
18th, is from Mrs. Julia Lindsey, President
of the F. R. Society of Paris, Rich county,
Bear Lake valley:
	Money is very scarce in this part of the
country, owing to our crops having been de-
stroyed repeatedly, by frost and that terrible
scourge the grasshoppers, which has kept
the people in rather poor circumstances.
But we trust in God, and hope for better
days. We had quite severe frosts the latter
part of July, and it was at first supposed
our wheat crop was all killed; but time has
proved that it is not injured as badly as was
at first feared, which we are very thankful
for. Our society donated quite a sum to
the emigration fund, though small, I pre-
sume, in comparison with some other socie-
ties; but the fault was not in the heart but
in the purse. Our society is still alive, but
for the reasons stated above, we have not
accomplished as much as we should have
done, under more favorable circumstances.
We have our regular meetings once a fort-
night, which are not always very numer-
ously attended. But there are a number of
good, faithful sisters, who would be a bless-
ing to any society, who are determined,
with the help of God, to hold the society
together in spite of the slackness of the
few, and accomplish all the good they can.


A GOOD EXAMPLE.—A little girl, seven
years old, earned by her own labor two dol-
lars, which she has donated to the fund for
the emigration of the poor. She is the
daughter of Mrs. Cowley of the 14th ward,
of this city. This speaks well for mother
and child. Who will follow the example?
Boys and girls, remember the poor, and
God will remember you.		W. E.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				——
	MRS. ABELL says: “A woman who has
the habit of observing closely, knows so
well what belongs to social and domestic
comfort, that she never enters a room of her
own dwelling without seeing in an instant
every trifle upon which comfort so much de-


pends. If the fire is too low or the hearth
unswept, if the chairs are not standing in
their places, or books and papers disar-
ranged, her quick and well-trained eye de-
tects in an instant what is wanting to com-
plete the pleasant air of comfort and order
which belongs to her to diffuse over her
whole household.  While, on the other
hand, if her attention has never been directed
to these matters, she may sit down without
once perceiving that the chairs are in dis-
order, drawers left open, the hearth-rug
turned up, the fire smoking, the room too
dark, or the sun pouring in its fiercest rays
to the damage of carpets. A woman want-
ing in this habit of observation, though
actuated by kindly feelings, will be guilty
of much neglect and be likely to have the
reputation of unkindness or ill-breeding.”
	LEMON DUMPLINGS.—With ten ounces of
fine bread-crumbs mix one large tablespoon-
ful of flour, half a pound of finely chopped
beef suet, the grated rinds of two small
lemons, four ounces of pounded sugar, three
large eggs, beaten and strained, and last of
all, the juice of the two lemons, also strained.
Divide the mixture into four dumplings, tie
them in well-floured cloths, and let them
boil an hour.
	LEMON TART.—Take half a pound of
lump sugar, slice three lemons, and lay them
in the sugar for the night; cover the bot-
tom of the dish with a pound of biscuits,
lay over them slices of candied orange and
lemon-peel, four ounces of pounded almonds,
and one of butter; put in the sugar and
lemons, and cross-bar the top.
	SCALLOPED MEAT.—Take any kind of
cold roast meat, cut it into exceedingly thin
slices of about an inch across, season it well,
pour over it enough wine, gravy, and melted
butter to moisten, place it in buttered scal-
lop shells, sprinkle bread-crumbs pretty
thickly on the top, and place them in a hot
oven till well browned; cold rabbit, sweet-
breads, poultry, veal, and different kinds of
fish, are specially adapted for coquilles.
Serve in the shells.
	HOUSEKEEPERS should heed the following:
When a carpet is taken up to be cleaned, the
floor beneath is generally covered with dust.
This dust is fine and dry, and poisonous to
the lungs; before removing it, sprinkle the
floor with diluted carbolic acid, to kill any
poisonous germs that may be present, and
to thoroughly disinfect the floor and make
it sweet.
	WALNUT CATSUP.—Beat about a hundred
green walnuts in a marble mortar till they
are completely broken, and then put them
into a stone jar, with half a pound of es-
chalots cut in slices, one head of garlic, half
a pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar;
allow them to stand for ten or twelve days,
stirring them night and morning; strain off
the liquor, and boil it for half an hour, add-
ing two ounces of anchovies, two of whole
pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a quar-
ter of an ounce of mace; skim it well, strain,
and when perfectly cold, pour it gently from
the sediment into small bottles; secure from
the air by sound corking, and store it in a
dry place. The sediment is usually reserved
for flavoring sauces.


﻿“WELL, I did not think, when I married
you, that you would grow to be such a goose!”
said a young married man to his bride, who
was pouting because she could not go to a
party in the evening. “Neither did I,”
she replied, “but your mother was telling
me, only yesterday, how much I was grow-
ing into your ways.” Both laughed, and
they concluded to make up and be good-na-
tured.


CLOUDS.
			     —
	How much the face of nature, in its vari-
ous aspects, resembles the hearts and lives
of human beings! Sometimes the sky ap-
pears so clear and beautiful one could almost
imagine that never again would storm clouds
gather to mar the loveliness and regularity
of its soft blue features; and the lives of in-
dividuals often seem the same. There is
nothing to distress or to disturb; all is sun-
shine, peace and tranquillity. But, as over
the summer sky, shadows creep, almost im-
perceptible at first, the tiny white clouds
that dot the brilliant azure in varied forms
growing larger and darker, until the rain
drops begin to descend, and thickening and
blackening into terrible tempestuous war-
riors arrayed against the humbler elements;
so also is the serenity of the soul often over-
cast with clouds of sorrow and regret; clouds
that appear too small and trifling at first to
shade the glorious sunlight of mental peace,
or tend to make earth’s garden less a para-
dise to the inexperienced and innocent;
yet, clouds that will sometimes expand and
gather blackness till they shut out all the
light, and then, triumphant, shower down
their wrath upon the poor, unsheltered hu-
man heart. But every cloud must have
spent all its fury and poured out all its sor-
rowing tears in some great hearts, that
seem to have been tried to the core, and to
have overcome temptations, until the adver-
sary has no further power with them to
tempt or to annoy. I have known a few in-
dividuals whom I believed to possess such
hearts, and to me they are the happiest and
most loveable of all earth’s inhabitants. If
a gloom would settle over those around
them, they seem to have the power to
chase it off. They are those who have
learned to acknowledge the hand of God in
all things; who have overcome selfishness.
For this one demon—selfishness—is the
foundation of evil and unhappiness. And
till the heart has overcome this fiend, clouds
of remorse and gloom will never cease to
throw their shadows o’er its otherwise
cheerful and blissful course.
								L.


CHILDREN.—“I like children," he said
to me one day at the table. “I like ’em,
and respect ’em. Pretty much all the honest
truth-telling there is in the world is done
by them. Do you know they play the part
in the household which the king’s jester,
who very often had a mighty long head under
his cap and bells, used to play for a
monarch? There’s no radical club like a
nest of little folks in a nursery. Did you
ever watch a baby's fingers? I have, often
enough, though I never knew what it was
to own one.” The master paused for half a
minute or so, sighed—perhaps at thinking
what he had missed in life—looked up at
me a little vacantly. I saw what was the
matter; he had lost the thread of his talk.
	“Baby’s fingers,” I intercalated.
	“Yes, yes. Did you ever see how they
will poke those wonderful little fingers of
theirs into every fold and crack and crevice
they can get at? That is their first educa-
tion—feeling their way into the solid facts
of the material world. When they begin
to talk, it is the same thing over again in
another shape. If there is a crack or a flaw
in your answer to the shoulder-hitting ques-
tions, they will poke and poke until they have
got it gaping just as the baby’s fingers have
made a rent out of the atom of a hole in
his pinafore that your old eyes never took
notice of. Then they make such fools of
us by copying on a small scale what we do
in a grand manner.”—“Dr. O. W. Holmes."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				
﻿


﻿FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			      —
	To acquire a capacity for happiness, first
rectify inward disorder.
	HE who enlists in any worthy enterprise,
should not consider an ultimate failure pos-
sible.
	Algona, Iowa, which was twenty years
ago a naked prairie, is now finishing off its
second court house.
	SOME people talk with their eyes more
eloquently than others, can with their na-
tural organ or speech.
	THE favorite method of disposing of
mysterious disappearances in Cincinnati is
to head them up in a salt barrel.
	NO position however great, no possessions
however desirable, can make us blest unless
we feel ourselves deserving of them.
	PLEASURE is perfect only when it harmo-
nizes with our permanent interests; no de-
light can be enduring which interferes with
duty.
	MORAL and religious instruction derives
its efficacy, not so much from what men are
taught to know, as from what they are made
to feel.
	OF WHAT character is your conversation?
Whatever it may be, be assured it is an un-
erring index to your heart. The tree is
known by its fruit.
	TO BE truly great, or sincerely happy, use-
fulness and beneficence, not ostentation and
vanity, must direct the train of thought and
influence words and actions.
	TEMPERANCE, by fortifying the mind and
body, leads to happiness; intemperance, by
enervating them, endangers the health and
peace of both, and ends in misery.
	A LUNATIC has turned up in Chicago in
the role of Diogenes, hunting for an honest
man with a lantern. The poor fellow might
as well make up his mind to die there.
	WHEN we observe a tendency to treat re-
ligion or morals with disrespect and levity,
we may hold it as a sure indication of a per-
verted understanding or a depraved heart.
	TRUE beauty is a soul refined, true wealth
the riches of the mind; let woman give but
little thought to loveliness of face, nor sigh
for power that in the purse alone hath dwel-
ling-place.
	EVERY degree of guilt incurred by yield-
ing to temptation, tends to debase the mind,
weaken the generous and benevolent prin-
ciples of human nature, and make cowards
of its victims.
	THERE is a reverend gentleman in Min-
nesota who spends his Sundays in prophesy-
ing that the world will not outlast the
present summer, and yet he has sown 100
acres of wheat.
	MANY people imagine themselves pat-
terns or at least as good as the average of
husbands and wives, who daily crucify the
spirit of their companion, making life al-
most loathsome.
	LUXURY, pride and vanity, have frequent-
ly as much influence in corrupting the sen-
timents of the great, as ignorance, bigotry
and prejudice have in misleading the opin-
ions of the multitude.
	IF WE desire to make others happy, we
must haste to give while our gifts can be
enjoyed, and remember that every moment
of delay takes away something from the
value of a benefaction.
	IT IS useless to endeavor to satisfy the
constant demands of the selfish and ungrate-
ful, for the more you give the more un-
grateful do they become, and the harder
will they speak against you.


﻿HEREDITARY INFLUENCES.—It is dis-
tinctly asserted by professor Lucas, and
agreed to by others, that predisposition to
any form of disease or any malformation
may become an inheritance. Thus disease
of the heart is hereditary; so are tubercles
in the lungs; so also are diseases of the
brain, of the liver, and of the kidney; so
are diseases of the eye and of the ear. Gen-
eral maladies are equally inheritable, as
gout and madness. Longevity on the one
hand and premature deaths on the other
go by descent. If we consider a class of
peculiarities more recondite in their origin
than these, we shall still find the law of in-
heritance to hold good. A morbid suscepti-
bility to contagious disease, or to the poison-
ous effects of opium or of calomel, and an
aversion to the taste of meat, are all found
to be inherited. So is craving for strong
drink or gambling, strong sexual passion, a
proclivity to pauperism, to crimes of vio-
lence, and to crimes of fraud. There are
certain marked types of character justly as-
sociated with marked types of feature and
of temperament. We hold, axiomatically,
that the latter are inherited (the case being
too notorious, and too consistent with the
analogy afforded by brute animals, to render
argument necessary), and we therefore infer
the same of the former. For instance, the
face of the combatant is square, coarse, and
heavily jawed. It differs from that of the
ascetic, the voluptuary, the dreamer and
the charlatan. Still more strongly marked
than these, are the typical features and
characters of different races of men. The
Mongolians, Jews, negroes, Gipsies, and
American Indians, severally propagate their
kinds; and each kind differs in character
and intellect, as well as in color or shape,
from the other four. They, and a vast
number of other races, form a class of in-
stances worthy of close investigation, in
which peculiarities of character are invari-
ably transmitted from the parents to the off-
spring.—“Francis Galten.”


﻿A GENTLEMAN in the cars the other day,
so far forgot himself as to place his foot,
boot and all, rather hastily upon the
shoulder of a lady who sat front of him;
and when apologizing for the overt and
somewhat ludicrous action, said he thought
he must have been partially asleep, could
hardly believe he would have done such a
thing had he been fairly awake. Gentle-
men would do well to guard against snooz-
ing in the cars, when there are ladies near,
who, unquestionably would prefer being en-
tertained colloquially, to being somnolently
kicked at. Of course the infractor was one
of our “Mormon tyrants.” But let us have
the best coloring on the outside—it was his
neighbor’s wife and not his own that he
booted.


﻿A SOMEWHAT notable tribute has just been
paid to an American artist by the lord
mayor of London. His honor having vis-
ited Munich lately, there entered the studio
of David Neal. He found him just finish-
ing a picture of Watt as a boy, studying the
power of steam. The boy is seated in the
chimney corner, watching the tea-kettle.
His mother has opened the door, and scolds
him pleasantly, as her face indicates, for ab-
senting himself from the family eating
meal, which is seen going on in another
room through the half-opened door. The
mayor invited Neal to name his own price
for the picture, and it will henceforth grace
the Mansion House in London.


A VETERAN lady, whose sons are all
grown to be big boys, either reverentially
or ironically calls her new dog “Grant.”


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A SPRING bed—a bed of radishes.

	THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life use-
fully and virtuously employed, and to trace
our own progress in existence by such
tokens as excite neither shame nor sorrow.
	WHAT is the ultimate scope of our present
pursuits? Are they, as they should be, such
that we can justify them to ourselves, and
likely to produce anything that will survive
the moment and bring forth some fruit for
futurity?
	LITTLE Robbie went to a show, and saw
an elephant for the first time in his life.
When he came home, his mother asked him
what he had seen. Robbie replied, “An
elephant, mama, that gobbled hay with his
front tail.”
	IT was a happy thought for Dr. Doremus
to say that if he were challenged to fight a
duel, he would suggest to his opponent that
both should take poison, and then sit down
and play poker for the exclusive use of the
stomach pump.
	A COUNSEL mimicking a witness, who as
a north countryman pronounced the word
“water” as if it had been “watter,” in-
quired of him whether in his part of the
country they spell “water with two t’s?”
“No,” said the witness, “but they spell
manners with two n’s.”
	TILL we have reflected on it, we are
scarcely aware how much the sum of hu-
man happiness in the world is indebted to
this one feeling—sympathy. We get cheer-
fulness and vigor, we scarcely know how or
when, from mere association with our fel-
low men, and from the looks reflected on us
of gladness and keen enjoyment.
	IT IS not what people eat, but what they
digest, that makes them strong. It is not
what they gain, but what they save, that
makes them rich. It is not what they read,
but what they remember, that makes them
learned. It is not what they profess, but
what they practice, that makes them right-
eous.
	THE weeping willow has a romantic his-
tory. The first scion was sent from Smyrna
in a box of figs, to Alexander Pope. Gen-
eral Clinton brought a shoot from Pope's
tree to America, in the time of the revolu-
tion, which, passing into the hands of John
Parker Curtis, was planted on his estate in
Viriginia, thus becoming the progenitor of
the weeping willow in this country.
	A CURIOUS portrait of General Washing-
ton, on earthenware, is displayed in a New
York jeweler's window. It is stated that
soon after Washington's death an American
traveling in England discovered some sets
of earthenware with these portraits en-
ameled upon them. He purchased the
whole lot, had the portraits cut out and
framed, and distributed them among his
friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		
		LOUISE L. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	 							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1872.


SPLINTERS.

	One hundred and eighty young and hardy
Scotchmen have lately landed at Quebec......
A new ocean cable has recently been laid
from the Suffolk coast in England to Hano-
ver......Gold medals have been sent to Stan-
ley, the explorer, from the St. Petersburg
and Florence geographical societies......Some
one now states that Horace Greeley, instead
of Wilkes Booth, was or should have been
Lincoln’s assassin......One hundred people
were lately thrown out of employment, at
Portland, by the burning of a rope factory...
About fifty delegates, from different parts
of the United States and Canada, were pres-
ent at the session of the Caledonia society
of North America......The Indians at Por-
tage la Prairie, Canada, refuse their annui-
ties, as last year provided by treaty, and
declare that unless better terms are granted
they will stop surveys......In the past two
years, twenty-three thousand miles of elec-
tric cables have been laid in the waters of
England, France, Spain, Holland, Turkey,
China, South America and Australia......A
late fire in the press room of the “Christian
Union,” Henry Ward Beecher’s paper, de-
stroyed about $10,000 worth of property......
Twenty-three cases of sunstroke in New
York, and seven in Brooklyn, occurred on
the 15th of August......John G. Saxe takes
the stump for Greeley and Brown......Half
the slate pencils used in the world are
claimed by Vermont to be made in the
Green Mountain State.....An English stock
purchaser has paid $13,000 for two short-
horned heifers in Kentucky......Carl Schurz
delivered his speech in Chicago in German...
It is believed that Charles Sumner and N.P.
Banks will take the stump in Maine......Gar-
rison tries to prove that Greeley was never
an abolitionist......Ludgate Hill, London’s
great thoroughfare, is to be paved with
American wood at a cost of $25,000......Kate
Field is engaged to write for the “Ameri-
can Register”......A New Hampshire paper
reports that twenty persons and a negro
were baptised on a Sunday, in its neighbor-
hood......Report says the prettiest girl about
Saratoga, is an Indian maiden, who sells
bead-work at the springs......Rev. Miss
Babcock has entered pastoral possession of the
pulpit of Warren street church, in Boston......
Last year, England bought from the United
States, $184,000,000 worth of cotton; and
manufactured from it L382,000,000 worth of
goods......Turin, Italy, boasts eighty women
over a century old, the youngest being 102
and the eldest 117......The Grant men think
to carry Maine, September 9th, by 49,000
majority; but Greeley men say they wont.
GREELEY is said to wear his trousers in-
side his boots to show he does not buy mili-
tary boots......“Colonel” Tennie C. Claflin
will take command of her regiment, she
says, as soon as it is recruited up to a thou-
sand strong.....Fanny Lewald, the German
authoress, intends to lecture in the United
States next autumn.......Mr. Boutwell is
now speaking for Grant in Maine......One
hundred and eighteen printers in Albany
have formed a Greeley and Brown club......
Chicago laid over a mile of sidewalk in
July......The female students who claimed
admission to the Scotch Universities, have
gained their point.....A Boston belle wears
the honors at Cape May......Bret Harte is
writing a melodrama......Two boats, one
containing two men, and the other a little
boy and girl, drifted over the Niagara Falls
on the 26th of July......The Emperors of
Germany and Austria met at Ischl on the
28th of August......The tomb of Abelard
and Heloise, at Pere la Chaise, is being
renovated at the expense of a noble and
[new column]
aged French lady......The Stadt Theatre,
New York, was lately sold at auction for
$12,200......The Grand Lodge of Odd Fel-
lows, of New York, reject the constitutional
amendment for admission of members ex-
pelled more than ten years......“Mark
Twain” has sailed in the “Scotia” for Eu-
rope......America is to be visited by a son of the
Khedive of Egypt......Juarez,the late Presi-
dent of Mexico, was a full-blooded Indian...
A cat was recently sold in London for
$255......The population of Russia is 81,-
500,000......Professor Agassiz is on his way
homeward......The father of the late James
Fisk, jr., has been horse-whipping general
J. W. Phelps, at Brattleboro, Vt......The
well-known and popular journalist of New
Orleans, Paul E. Roman, is dead......A pro-
ject for a tax upon domestic servants, was
recently brought forward in the French as-
sembly......A literary revolution is in pro-
gress in Poland......M. D. Conway says the
Prince of Wales possesses one good quality;
he is free from cant and hypocrisy......A
brother of Dr. Livingstone, residing at Lis-
well, Canada, has received letters from the
doctor, sent by Stanley......Miss Dickinson
is now said to be quietly pursuing her lec-
ture studies at home.


WHO IS TO BLAME?

	It has become so popular among the fashion-
able women of society, to be weak and sickly,
and under the care of a physician, that a woman
who is blest with good health and has sense
enough to appreciate it, is likely to be consid-
ered coarse, masculine and non-sensitive in her
mental as well as physical organization. If a
girl can enjoy exuberantly a bowl of hominy
and milk, and not be ready to die with dyspep-
sia in an hour afterward; if she can make her
own bed and sweep the room, or indulge in a
genuine, hearty laugh, and not complain of a
fearful pain in the side for the next forty-eight
hours; she is thought to be vulgar and unculti-
vated, and no matter how chaste and finished
her educational developments, she is an unfit
associate for those gentler, more delicate and
refined (!) creatures to whom the sight of “mo-
lasses preserves” serves as an emetic, and who
can faint away at the smell of “soap-suds.”
The reason of this is, that such a young lady
can not possess that prevalent, yet senseless
and inhuman taste, which delights in suffering
the pangs engendered by tight lacing, wearing
high heeled boots; and, in short, the whole
toilet of the fashionable lady of the day, which
makes a sacrifice of health and all real happi-
ness, and cannot fail to inflict premature death.
More than half the fault, for this fashionable
folly, may justly be charged to men, though
women are so severely blamed for it all. For
no true wife, of a kind and faithful husband, is
going to far over-reach the line in any respect,
by which he would see her guided. Were there
more true husbands, there would be more true
wives. For nearly all women can be influenced
and led by just and intelligent men, and are
always ready to unite their efforts with those


of man for the promotion of good. And if hus-
bands and wives would co-operate as they
should do upon those points, not many of their
daughters would run wild after the silly vani-
ties of the world, but would live and work for
nobler and higher aims. But men of the world
do not wish their wives and daughters to be
prudent and temperate, or they would set bet-
ter examples before them than they do. If
women were anything better than the extrava-
gant, sickly, silly, vain things that they are,
men, taking them generally, in their present
degenerate state, would sink to nothingness be-
side them.


﻿THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	At the meeting of the Board of Directors of
the Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society, held in the Historian’s office on Sat-
urday evening, August 24, Hon. Wilford Wood-
ruff presiding, it was decided to publish a
circular addressed to the Female Relief Socie-
ties throughout the Territory, relative to the
approaching Territorial Fair. We take great
pleasure in printing the circular, as requested
by the Board, which reads as follows:
	SALT LAKE CITY, August 17, 1872.
TO THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETIES
   THROUGHOUT UTAH TERRITORY:
    LADIES:—The Deseret Agricultural and Man-
ufacturing society, at a meeting of its board of
directors on the 10th day of August inst., recog-
nizing the fact that heretofore the ladies have
contributed in a liberal manner to their de-
partment, until it has become one of the lead-
ing features of our exhibitions, ordered that a
circular be written calling upon all the Relief 
Societies to unite and by a concentration of ef-
fort accomplish that which will be highly
creditable and be parallel with Utah’s advanced
growth.
	Exhibitions of domestic products and manu-
factures are considered of such utility and im-
portance that they form a prominent part of
the civil polity of the nations; and the people
who foster and excel in their products and in-
dustries lay the foundation of commercial inde-
pendence.
	A people situated as we are, so remote from
other manufacturing districts, aided by the
heavy tariffs of transportation, have every
stimulus to encourage them in this direction.
The adoption of this policy is pregnant with
benefits on every hand. While attaining the
desirable status of having “the beauty of our
apparel the workmanship of our own hands,”
the laudable condition is also reached of fur-
nishing employment for the heavy tide of im-
migrants coming westward and for the legion
of youth growing up in our midst.
	A word to the wise is sufficient: Ladies, you
are respectfully invited to contribute and to
take an active part in rendering this exhibi- 
tion a step in advance of its predecessors.
	The Fair will be held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, in this city, on the 3d, 4th and
5th of October, so as to close before the com-
mencement of the Semi-Annual Conference. 
At this Fair the ladies of the Relief Societies
can do much to add to its interest; they can 
show how well cultivated is the taste, how skill-
ful are the hands, and how competent in work
of many kinds are those who devote a portion
of their time, intelligence, and the ability with
which they have been endowed, to alleviate
the sufferings or privations of those who need
their assistance.
For the benefit of the ladies we give the two
classes of articles in which they are more di-
rectly interested, for which prizes will be
awarded, taken from the list of premiums for
the Tenth exhibition of the Society, printed 
by order of the Board:
		CLASS T.—LADIES' WORK. 
	Supervisory Committee.—E. F. Sheets.
Awarding Committee.—ELIZA R. SNOW, MRS.
M. T. SMOOT, MRS. PHEBE WOODRUFF, MRS.
B. W. SMITH, MRS. LUCY KIMBALL, Provo,
MRS. ELIZABETH BARLOW, Bountiful.


Best collection of useful and ornamental
	articles produced by any Female Relief
	Society....................................Silver Medal
	"   specimen ornamental needle work....$2 00
	“   specimen Ayrshire needle work...........	 2 00
	“   ottoman cover........................................ 2 00
	“   worked lace collar..................................	 2 00
	“   worked cushions....................................	 2 00
	“   lace cap.................................................... 2 00
	“   colored artificial flowers........................	 2 00
	“   ornamental basket................................. 2 00
	“   woolen socks..........................................  2 00
	“   cotton socks.....................................   Diploma
	“   embroidered shawl................................$3 00
	“   crochet work........................................... 2 00
	"   worked quilt............................................  2 00
	"   patchworked quilt..................................	  2 00
	“   knit work.................................................. 2 00
	“   three specimens of straw work............. 5 00
	“   ladies’ straw hat....................................... 2 00
	“   rents’ straw hat.........................................2 00
	"   ladies’ straw bonnet.................................2 00
	“   assorted straw braids...............................2 00
	The awards for the second best in this
						class are $1 00.
			CLASS U.—PRODUCE.
	Supervisory Committee.—JOHN READING.
	Awarding Committee.—E. D. WOOLEY, MY-
	RON TANNER, DANIEL R. ALLEN, DANIEL
	GRENIG, ROBERT CAMPBELL.

Best specimen one hundred lbs flour....Diploma
	“ specimen fifty lbs corn meal......           “
	“	“	ten lbs butter..................           “
	“	"	ten lbs butter made pre-
			 vious to July 1st........		      “
	“	“	cheese made in 1871.........     $3 00
	“	“	cheese made in 1872..........      5 00
	The awards for the second best in
				this class are $2 00.
	Applicants for premiums on butter must
accompany their samples with a written state-
ment of the time when made, number of cows
made from, quantity of salt per pound used,
how manufactured, washed or otherwise, and
how packed to entitle them to awards by the
judges.
	Applicants for premiums on cheese must ac-
company their samples with a written answer
to the following questions:
	How many cows in your dairy? Do you feed
grain or roots? If so, what kind, and when?
	What is your usual average yield per cow?
	Into what do you set your night’s milk?
	Do you take off cream in the morning?
	Do you return cream? if so, when and how?
	In what manner do you warm milk for the
reception of rennet?
	Do you use a thermometer?
	To what temperature do you heat milk for
the reception of rennet?
	How do you preserve your rennet?
	In what do you set your milk?
	How do you separate whey from curd?
	What time consumed in scalding process?
	How do you scald curd?	
	What quantity of salt do you use to ten
pounds of curd?
	Do you color your curd? if so, with what and
at what stage?	
	Do you put curd to press cold or hot?
	What amount of pressure do you apply?
	How long do you press?
	What is the average weight of your cheeses?
	Do you bandage your cheese? if so, when?
	Where are they kept?
	What do you apply to the surface in curing?
	How often do you turn them?
	What kind of a press do you use?
	What disposition do you make of your whey?
	Do you keep a dairy account?
	What was your average income per cow last
year?
		CLASS U.—CONTINUED. 
Best ten pounds sugar...............Silver Medal
2nd best ten pounds sugar..............Diploma
Best one gallon from one hundred
	gallons molasses..............................	 "
	“ one quart from ten quarts wine...	 "
	“ preserved fruit................................	 "
	“ canned fruit.................................... 	 "
	“ preserved corn...............................	 "
	“ preserved vegetables....................	 "
	“ preserved meats............................	 "
	“ assorted pickles..............................	 "
	The awards for the second best in
		this class are.................		$2 00


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VERMONT ELECTION occurs on the 3rd 
inst.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE EXPONENT continues to increase in cir-
culation, for which we thank the friends whose
exertions are directed for its success.
	THE FIRST load of granite brought by steam,
from Cottonwood, was landed at Temple Block,
in this city, on the morning of the 28th ult.
A track has been laid from the U. S. and U. C.
depot to the Temple Block, along which a loco-
motive can pass with loaded cars of rock to the
foundation of the Temple.
	A BIBLE society for Utah has been organized
in this city. While we are anxious to see the
truths contained in the sacred volume still
more widely disseminated, would it not be ad-
visable, for consistency’s sake, for the gentle-
men who have moved in the matter, either to
recognize more widely the principles taught
in it, or advocate an altered version that would
better agree with their opinions?
	TWO DAYS’ meetings were held at Logan,
Cache county, on the 17th and 18th ult., and at
Farmington, Davis county, on the 24th and
25th ult,; attended by the Presidency, some of
the Twelve and other Elders. At each place a
great deal of valuable instruction was given,
and the large numbers that attended were
much edified and strengthened in faith by the
teachings and exhortations of the speakers.
	A WOMAN ran the danger of being burned to
death in this city last Saturday night, by
placing a coal oil lamp on a hot stove. The
lamp exploded, scattering the burning fluid
over her apparel, and she was only saved by
having the blazing dress torn off her. The
recklessness with which many persons handle
inflammable fluids is surprising considering
the vast number of accidents that are continu-
ally occurring.
	ONE of the most notable events that has oc-
curred in the Territory since our last issue, was
the holding of the Indian council at Spring-
ville, Utah county. A few straight-forward
promises satisfied the Indians assembled, who
expressed themselves warmly in favor of con-
tinued peace, but believed they had not been
justly treated. If the promises again made to
them are performed, there need be little fear of
trouble from them; but if they are broken and
if the assurances given prove empty words,
more trouble may be looked for. In a long
course of experience with the Indians, Presi-
dent Young has ever retained their confidence,
simply because he always performed all that
he promised, and they never had reason to
doubt his word. It is said that much of the
late cause for uneasiness relative to the Uintah
Indians might have been avoided, had the In-
dian agent not been over anxious to show that
he swayed high authority, and, disregarding
the advice of men having experience with the
Indian character, he took a course calculated
to irritate instead of conciliate them. There
are hostile Indians still supposed to be in the
neighborhood of Sanpete and the Sevier, and
against these troops have been dispatched.


﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having finished my washing, got supper
over, and the children to bed, I sit down to
write to you. I notice that you seem to
avoid personalities in your publication as
much as possible. But what I have to say
is chiefly concerning myself and my private
affairs, and yet is illustrative of a principle.
Once, I considered it scandalous and out-
rageous for our family concerns to be bandied
about and ridiculed or groaned over by all
the blockheads in the Christian communi-
ties around us; but now I have become so
[new column]
used to such things that I wish to say some-
thing about it myself. I desire to tell some-
thing of what celestial marriage has done
for me, and I hope you will publish it.
	When a girl, at home with my parents
and brothers and sisters, I had a most
wretched disposition. Not that I willfully
did wrong, nor yet that I was so simple as
not to know better than to talk and do as I
often did; but somehow I seemed to be im-
pelled to make myself a miserable, ungrate-
ful, disagreeable creature.
	After marriage I kept it up. My hus-
band was always kind and affectionate, but
I would be annoyed and unhappy all the
while. When children were given me, and
the cares and duties of life were multiplied,
I grew more and more fretful and disagree-
able. I have wondered how my generous,
peace-loving husband ever stood my con-
stant irritableness, and endured to live with
me; but I suppose his love for me, ungrate-
ful as I was, and his firm faith and trust in
God, helped him to bear it all. When my
second child was two years old, and six
months before my third one was born, my
husband gently, yet earnestly, laid before
me his desire and determination to take an-
other wife. Notwithstanding the principle
was an old one to me, that my husband
should think of adopting it was new and 
surprising. I knew he believed that I would
oppose him; yet I also felt from the first
that his course was right, and that in justice
I could not raise a single objection. I de-
termined to astonish him as much as he
had done me. I therefore put my arms
about his neck and kissed him, a thing I
had rarely if ever done before, and whis-
pered, “All right; I am going to be a good
girl; see if I don’t!” This was after a little
reflection. I then asked my husband to
leave me to myself, which he did. I spent
the afternoon in prayer and contemplation,
not with tears and head and heartache, as I
am aware some of my less-reflecting sisters
do, and have done. I knew the woman
who was to become a second wife to my
husband was a true, whole-souled woman;
sweeter-tempered, more affectionate, oblig-
ing and unselfish than myself. Gossip
would soon say either that I wronged and
trampled on the poor girl, or else that she 
had fairly won my husband’s heart from
me. And I was aware that gossip could
speak truly concerning these things, unless
I altered the course I had been pursuing.
I made up my mind that if slander ever
spoke of me as she had done of others, she
should bear false witness. I would do right.
I would live nearer the Lord than I had
ever done, would seek His Spirit more dili-
gently than I had ever known how to do
before; I would try to be so good and just
and self-sacrificing that no one, however
worthy, should supercede me in any of my
lawful claims. I promised this to myself
and to the Lord. I have kept that promise
so far, and the Lord has rewarded me every
day. I have become pleasant and cheerful
in my thoughts and in my ways; a truer
and more consistent helpmate; a more de-
voted and faithful mother; a stronger, purer
and better woman; and happier in life than
I ever was before being brought into the
practice of the law of celestial or plural
marriage. Whoever may allow “polyg-
amy,” as practiced by the real Latter-day
Saints, to make them weak and miserable,
I know that it can and will bless and exalt
those who enter into and live in it wisely,
for this is what it has done for me; thanks
and glory be given to the Founder and 
Creator of the eternal law!
						COUNTRY WOMAN.
Monday Evening, Aug. 20, 1872.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A ﻿SONG FOR THE TWENTY-FOURTH.

	All hail the glorious Twenty-Fourth !
		The birthday of the true and free; 
	The breaking light that ushers in
		Th’ eventful dawn of liberty,

	Hail to the ragged Pioneers !
		Weary and dusty though they be
	'Tis the tread of empire at its birth
		The herald footsteps of the free.

	Oh, Father rain thy blessings down!
		Thus prayeth every heart and tongue,
	On the chosen of the people’s hearts,
		Truth's noblest champion, Brigham Young.
							AGNESS S. ARMSTRONG


﻿SOMETHING NEW.—HOW IS IT?

	A writer to the “Woman’s Journal”, and
a believer in the superiority of woman over
man says:
	“It would seem that this wonderful body
of our sex, more delicate, more beautiful,
more highly organized, more sensitive, yet
with more vitality, and endowed with the
wonderful power, the divine power of giv-
ing life to other human beings, should be
treated with profound reverence at all
times.”
	When I read this sentence the question
voluntarily arose in my mind, “How has
woman been endowed with that wenderful,
that divine power!” True, it is not em-
phatically stated that she possesses this pow-
er independently; but if the expression is
not intended to converge to such a doctrine,
it does not explain itself. If such a theory
can be sustained, what a strange, new and
delightful period is dawning for woman!
She has, indeed, gained a superior and su-
perhuman basis, and need not trouble her-
self any further about good husbands, bad
husbands, or husbands of any kind. If the
time has come when she can obtain her
chief glory—“giving life to other human
beings”—independent of her inferior (!) as-
sociate—man—the world’s troubles must be
approaching a glorious “finis,” and every
one should be apprised of it. But how is
it?   Women out our way don’t understand
it.   We have not got so far along.  Would
“Shawanebeke,” who prays daily, “Thy
kingdom come,” and means “Woman Suf-
frage,” please explain? And as a compen-
-sation, I would politely and in sincerity
offer a few suggestions for her consideration, in
connection with the following true and very
sound sentiments from her own pen:
	“My daughter of fifteen asked me-to-day
why the good and sensible girls had so few
beaux, while the silly, over-dressed ones
could marry whom they pleased?  ‘Because
there are so few sensible men, my child,’
I answered. ‘Almost every superior woman
feels that in marrying she must accept her
inferior, ‘as men go’ now. Were it custom-
ary for her to select whom she would favor
with her love, she would choose more wisely;
and brainless men would not be so eligible
to matrimony as are now brainless girls.
When women assume this duty and privi-
lege, and when men are educated up to it,
there will be more and happier marriages.’
No one found it unfeminine in Victoria to
choose her own husband.”
	While it is an undeniable fact, that in
nearly every society in the known world,
“almost every superior woman feels that in
marrying she must accept her inferior 'as
men go’ now,” it is also a pleasing truth
that the great and good Creator hath pre-
pared a plan by which His intelligent and
pure and humble daughters may be more
fairly and equally provided for. A law by
which every true and noble woman may
claim the right of a virtuous and godly pro-
tector and companion for herself, and father
[new column]
for her children; making her own choice,
abiding by her own decision. That this or-
der should be misunderstood, ridiculed and
despised by the brainless and bigotted “fast
men” of the day, is not to be wondered at,
as it is calculated to deprive them of the
selfish and hateful abominations they de-
light to revel in. But that woman, with
her more chaste and elevated conceptions
of honor, sanctity and intelligence, should
proclaim against it is more surprising;
although I believe this to be merely the re-
sult of a lack of comprehension. And no
wonder women are blinded to their own in-
terests in this respect; they have been so
completely hoodwinked by the falsehoods
of corrupt and senseless braggarts.
							   NAIVETE.


﻿AMUSEMENTS FOR THE YOUNG.

	The importance of surrounding the young
with cheerful objects is seldom sufficiently
recognized. How often is the nursery the
dullest room in the house! It should be the
most cheerful, and have, both literally and
figuratively, a sunny aspect. All its con-
tents should have a lively air. The walls
should be painted of a bright color, and the
carpets be of a pattern noticeable by the dis-
tinctness of its figures or the warmth of its
tint. Colored pictures of a bright, objective
character large representations of animals—
dogs, horses and farm-yard, and groups of
ruddy boys and girls, elephants—cheerful
scenes of the field and playing and merry-
making, should be so hung on all sides as
to attract the sight and animate the spirits
of the little inhabitants of the nursery.
Their eyes and ears should be, as far as
possible, kept closed to all scenes and rela-
tions of horror and cruelty. The excite-
ment of the natural terror of the child at
darkness and solitude must be carefully
avoided, and no threats of summoning
ghosts, bogies, old witches or other mon-
sters, so fearful to the childish imagination,
should ever be permitted.
	With increasing age youth finds in the
companionship of its fellows the society
which is essential to its happiness and ac-
quires that knowledge of the traditionary
games of boyhood and girlhood which is an
endless source of gaiety and pleasure. The
top, ball, marbles, tag, leap-frog, hare and
hounds, prisoner’s base, and many other
amusements of the young, with their varied
inducements to active exercise of the body
and enlivening influences upon the animal
spirits, have a value to the child proved by
the experience of all time and all countries.
We regret, however, to learn that as they
involve a certain roughening and dirtying
of the hands, reddening of the face, and
disheveling of the hair, and unquestionable
wear and tear of the clothes, many parents
discountenance them. They are denounced
by the over-refined as the games of the rude
children of a rude age, and as not genteel
enough for the nicer offspring of modern
civilization! They undoubtedly afford the
young just that combination of mental ex-
citement and physical action in which they
delight, and from which both mind and
body receive so much benefit. We there-
fore decide, without much hesitation, in
the case of fine clothes vs. healthy and
happy children, leaving the fine clothes, as
the lawyers say, we believe, “to be cost for
damages.”
	Parents should not only encourage their
children to play these famous old games out
of doors, but make abundant provision for
the children’s amusement at home.—“Har-
per’s Bazar.”


﻿SENSIBLE RETRENCHMENT.

   Among the many rich points, finely dwelt
upon by Presidents B. Young and G. A.
Smith, in connection with the testimonies
borne by several of our prominent elders,
at the late two days’ conference held at Lo-
gan city, the importance of retrenchment
in cooking and in dress, was forcibly pre-
sented for the consideration of the sisters.
The use of unnecessary and injurious
beverages and tobacco was earnestly dis-
countenanced. Immorality in every form
was spoken against; and truth, virtue, be-
nevolence, and every attribute of a redeem-
ing and exalting nature, were strongly
vindicated. President Smith advised la-
dies, when cooking and arranging a dinner
of which friends were invited to partake,
not for each one to think she must excel
everybody else, and for this, “work herself
to death and have more dishes dirtied than
she could wash in a week.” Two or three
hours should be time enough in which to
prepare a good, respectable meal, and if her
company came filled with the Spirit of the
Lord, as they should do, it would be much
more satisfactory to them than if she
worked three days and went to unreason-
able expense to provide a sumptuous repast.
This is sound, wholesome advice, which
every woman in Utah should gratefully re-
ceive and profit by. When Abraham and
Sarah entertained Angels, instead of pud-
dings, pies, tarts and sauces, with tea or
coffee, they had bread and butter and milk,
and some veal for dinner. And when Jesus,
the Son of God, prepared a meal and invited
His disciples to dine with Him it is not re-
corded that He spread before them any
greater variety of dainties than broiled fish
and bread. Much wisdom is manifested by
a few of the Latter-day Saints in seeking
to adopt some of these simple and healthful
rules, and spending time, means and
strength, to better advantage than in, get-
ting up costly suppers. And it is to be
hoped that many more will follow the same
wise example. Much labor is performed by
the women of to-day to great disadvantage
and to no real purpose. Retrenchment in
almost every branch of industry could be
aptly applied without the least injury to art
or convenience and comfort. And thus
woman might secure much valuable time,
for gaining information herself, and impart-
ing it to her children, which now seems to
be unavoidably wasted in hard work.


﻿BOYS AT HOME.—An intelligent and
thrifty farmer says:	“But for the co-opera-
tion of boys I should have failed. The
eldest is near twenty-one, and the other
boys in the neighborhood have left their
parents—mine have stuck to me when I
most needed their services. I attribute this
result to the fact that I have tried to make
home pleasant for them. I furnished them
with attractive and useful reading; and
when night comes and the day’s work is
ended, instead of running with other boys 
to railroad stations and adjoining towns, 
they gather around the great lamp, and be-
come interested in their books and pa- 
pers.”


﻿IT IS the duty of every true woman to
look as beautiful as she can. It is her duty
to brighten and gladden the world with her
loveliness just as the flowers and trees, the
skies and waters gladden it. Her sense of
the beautiful should always and everywhere
be cultivated, for thus will her thoughts be
made pure, and her mind the home of sweet
and lovely things. Refinement comes of a
love of all things beautiful.—Ex.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
			   —
	TO TALK well and just enough is an ac-
complishment and wisdom possessed by
very few.
	EXTENSIVE beds of peat of the best qual-
ity have been discovered near Los Angeles,
on the line of the San Pedro railroad.
	A CONNECTICUT man rolls in wealth ac-
cumulated in the business of manufacturing
“genuine relics from the Holy Land.”
	YOU may fail to shine in the opinion of
others, both in your conversation and ac-
tions, from being superior as well as inferior
to them.
	THE London society for the prevention of
vice, has caused the suspension of the “Day’s
Doings.” A like society here could find
some, work to do.
	GRATITUDE is the great incentive to all
happiness. Without it, the wealthiest can-
not procure real enjoyment; with it, the
poorest cannot be miserable.
	WHAT we truly and earnestly aspire to
be, that in some sense we are. The mere
aspiration, by changing the frame of mind,
for the moment realizes itself.
	DURING the session of the Oregon legis-
lature two years ago, a minister preached
from the text “Thou shalt not steal.” Sev-
eral legislators, considering it a personal
insult, got up and left in high dudgeon.
	FASTIDIOUSNESS, az a general thing, iz a
holyday virtew, and i hav frequently notis-
sed that thoze individuals who are alwus
afrade they shall cum akrost sumthing hily
improper, are generally looking for it.—
 “Billings.”
	LOVE is said to be blind, but it is better
to believe that it voluntarily overlooks the
failings of its object, and, with more than
common sight, sees also the finer and more
obscure virtues which a casual observer
would never find out.
	WILLIAM LAWSON BARRY, of Nashville,
Tennessee, is the oldest printer in the Uni-
ted States, having just entered his ninety-
third year. He commenced learning his
trade in 1797, and set up Washington’s
obituary in 1799. Barry was born in Vir-
ginia, but has spent most all his life in Ten-
nessee and Kentucky, and has had a
considerable acquaintance with all of the
eminent men of those States. He is still
vigorous, and works at his trade occasion-
ally.
	KINDERHOOK, Illinois, possesses the
champion preacher. A few Sundays since
he had preached an eloquent sermon, and
at the conclusion exhorted his hearers to
embrace the opportunity presented. None
came forward, and after waiting some time,
the minister, raising his voice to the high-
est pitch, exclaimed: “Well, sit there, and
be .damned.” On the same Sunday he called
out to the janitor: “Open that window; I
don’t like to preach in a barrel with the
bung drove in.”
	AS MME. LUCCA is expected to visit us
during the coming year, the following esti-
mate of her powers and style, from an Eng-
lish journal,is of interest: “Madame Lucca’s
action is warmer and more tragic than that
of Nilsson. Her vocalization has more color,
passion and enthusiasm; is less a cold, con-
structive body of- beauty; fuller of pulse,
vividness and vitality; more sensuous and
living; less like a splendid statue of ice,
brilliant, scintillating, reflecting every
passion of lyrical drama, but possessed of
none. As a consequence, her style is more
sympathetic and exacts an equal sympathy
from the audience.”


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	STOKES is said to have spent $7,500 on his
trial.
	A seventeen-year-old rooster died lately
at Mobile, Ala.
	THE dog census of the United States is
set down at 21,000,000,000.
	THE value of the fruit product of Califor-
nia is estimated at $3,000,000.
	THE Isabel, a species of stone color, is
now the fashionable tint in London.
	A $3,000,000 hotel is to be erected in
London and run on the American plan.
	ENGLAND has 1,000,000 paupers, not one
in twenty of whom ever attended school.
	A FULL glass of water at bed time and
another just after rising, will often relieve
dyspepsia.
	A TEXAN cattle dealer is considered a
poor man if his drove does not number a
thousand head.
	AT THE old Mission of San Diego are 300
olive trees that are from eighty to one hun-
dred years old.
	SOME artesian wells 150 feet deep in Los
Angeles county are discharging live trout
two inches long.
	TWO twin boys in Warren county, Indi-
ana, aged 72 years, are tenderly cared for
by a mother of 96.
	ONE of the results of the civilization of
Japan is to leave 10,000 Buddhist priests
penniless and without employment.
	RECENT careful and scientific observa-
tions are said to show beyond a doubt that
the Colorado desert was once the bed of a
sea.
	THE dying gift of Bennett, of the New
York “Herald,” was $250,000 toward com-
pleting the Catholic cathedral in New York 
city.
	SIX thousand one hundred and seven
persons drank at the Cincinnati ice water
fountain during twenty-four hours last
week.
	THE tules or reed vegetation of the Cali-
fornia swamp land has been found to yield
fifty or sixty per cent, of paper pulp, equal
to that obtained from cotton.
	THE largest emigration to southern Min-
nesota ever known is now settling in the
frontier counties. It far exceeds the im-
mense immigration of 1866.
	DR. R. J. DODD, of the United States
navy, has given $4,000 to the Woman’s
Medical college of Pennsylvania, for the
establishment of the Hannah Matilda Dodd
Scholarship, in memory of his wife.
	CHICORY raising promises to become quite
an item in the valleys of the San Joaquin
and Calaveras rivers, Cal. The yield is said
to be fifteen to twenty tons per acre, and
the price $5 per ton. Chicory is used in
enormous quantities in adulterating coffee.
	THE Mikado of Japan can trace his pedi-
gree back for two thousand years. Queen
Victoria’s genealogy is traced back to the
foundation of the Saxon Heptarchy, A. D.
827, only a little more than one thousand
years, and the kings of France are reckoned
back about four hundred years earlier.
	AN insane man, who left his home in
Michigan about a year ago, has since been
traveling about under the impression that
he was somebody else, but retaining at the
same time a peculiar interest in his real self.
He would write home to his wife occasion-
ally, inquiring after her husband, being es-
pecially anxious to learn whether he had
“got over his crazy spell or not.”


﻿HOW IT IS DONE.
			     —
	Scene in library—gentleman busy writing
	—child enters :
	“Father, give me a penny.”
	“Haven’t got any—don’t bother me.”
	“But, father, I want it—something par-
ticular.”
	“I tell you I haven’t got one about me.”
	“I must have it! you promised me
one.”
	“I did no such thing! I won’t give you
any more pennies—you spend too many.
It’s all wrong. I won’t give it to you; so go
away!”
	Child begins to whimper.
	“I think you might give me one—it’s
real mean!”.
	“No! Go away—I won’t do it! So there’s
an end of it.”
	Child cries, teases, coaxes. Father gets
out of patience, puts his hand in his pocket,
takes out a penny and throws it at the child.
	“There! take it, and don’t come back
again to-day.”
	Child smiles, looks shy, and goes out con-
queror, determined to continue the struggle
in the afternoon, with the certainty of like
results.
	Scene in the street—two boys playing—
mother opens the door and trails one of
them, her own son.
	“Joe, come into the house right away.”
	Joe pays no attention.
	“Joe, do you hear me? If you don’t
come in right away, I’ll give you a whip-
ping!”
	Joe smiles and continues his play. His
companion is alarmed for him, and advises
him to obey.
	“You’ll catch it if you don’t go, Joe.”
“Oh! no—I won’t. She always says so—but
never does. I ain’t afraid!”
	Mother goes into the house greatly put
out, and thinks herself a martyr to bad chil-
dren.
	That’s the way, parents. Show your chil-
dren by example that you are weak, unde-
cided, and untruthful, and they learn aptly
enough to despise your authority and regard
your word as nothing. They graduate liars
and mockers, and the reaping of your sow-
ing will not fail.—Ex.


﻿IT IS not enough for a man to furnish his
family with comfortable food, clothing and
shelter. They have a claim on him above
those of physical necessities. If is not noble
in him to say, “I work hard to give you a
home, and I want you to stay there. Seek
your pleasures at home. I will not have
my family straggling here and there in the
world. Stay at home. I can see enough of
the world for all of us.” This kind of
tyranny makes a prison of home, which in-
stantly ceases to be the habitation of peace
or happiness. It would be so easy and. re-
spectable for such a man to take his family
out for a little variety and recreation, now
and then. Young people droop without a
sense of freedom within the bounds of pro-
priety and filial obedience. There are beau-
tiful influences and opportunities for improv-
ing the mind in the world, which are lost
by those who are forbidden ever to seek
them.


IT IS easy to say what ought not to be
thought of or mentioned, but when the
heart is full of long pent-up, bitter memo-
ries of abuse, neglect or tyranny, the seal
will sometimes drop from the lips : when a
sympathetic heart is near to offer a kind
word of comfort.


A “time-server”—a watch.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEA DRUNKARDS.
				   —
	Dr. Arlidge, one of the pottery inspectors
in Staffordshire, has put forth a very sen-
sible protest, says the “Lancet,” against a
very pernicious custom which rarely re-
ceives sufficient attention, either from the
medical profession or the public. He says
that the women of the working classes make
tea a principal article of diet instead of an
occasional beverage; they drink it several
times a day, and the result is a lamentable
amount of sickness. This is no doubt the
case, and, as Dr. Arlidge remarks, a portion
of the reforming zeal which keeps up such
a fierce and bitter agitation against intoxi-
cating drinks might advantageously be di-
verted to the repression of this very serious
evil of tea tippling among the poorer
classes. Tea, in anything beyond moderate
quantities, is as distinctly a narcotic poison
as is opium or alcohol. It is capable of ruin-
ing the digestion, of enfeebling and disor-
dering the heart’s action, and of generally
shattering the nerves. And it must be re-
membered that not merely is it a question
of narcotic excess, but the enormous quan-
tity of hot water which tea bibbers neces-
sarily take is exceedingly prejudicial both
to digestion and nutrition.—Ex.


THE authenticity of Stanley’s letters
concerning the finding of Dr. Livingstone,
is now generally conceded. Mr. Stanley is
a young man, not much over thirty, who is
well known in Colorado Territory and in
Omaha. There is a little romance connected
with his history, as it is alleged that he
fixed his affections on a young lady whose
name is not unfamiliar to the people of Salt
Lake, she having appeared on the boards of
the theatre here for a season; and that she
did not reciprocate his warmth of feeling.
It is said that as a result he became some-
what misanthropic and sought literary em-
ployment that weuld take him away from
familiar scenes and faces. He became cor-
respondent for the New York “Herald” in
Abyssinia during the British war against
the Emperor Theodore, and through his
correspondence the British government first
learned of the success of their arms and the
fall of Magdala. He was subsequently se-
lected to lead the “Herald” expedition to
search for Dr. Livingstone, and succeeded
in finding the great explorer at Ujiji in the
interior of Africa.


Z.  C. M. I.

 RETAIL DRY GOODS DEPARTMENT.

 We are constantly in the receipt of all Seasonable,
Fashionable, Dress Goods, Suitable for the great va-
riety of our Patrons.
	We continue to manufacture the Celebrated
		SALT LAKE GLOVES.
Children’s Hosiery, Shoes, and Gloves, a specialty.
While we carry a fine stock of the elegant fabrics
of the day, yet the grand staples, such as Domestics,
Checks, Stripes, Denims, etc., are offered at the low-
est possible figure.

				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
LADIES !
	Go to Taylor & Cutler’s for Dress Goods, No-
tions, etc. Also the Cheapest Store for Family Gro-
ceries in town. Call and see.
[new column]
H.  WALLACE 
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place, for ladies
to purchase.
CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
DR. W. H. GROVES,
						DENTIST,
   Office Second South Street. Three doors west of
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City.
		Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

				JOHNSON’S

	HOMEMADE FAMILY MEDICINES

Warranted to be Better than the Best Im-

	ported, and Give Ample Satisfaction.

	BONESET PILLS. Purely vegetable. They
cleanse and purify the blood, stomach and bowels.
Act powerfully upon the liver, kidneys and urinary
organs. Break up fevers, strengthen digestion and
bring the rosy hue of health to faces emaciated. Are
tonic, cathartic, stimulant, and soothe, by removing
the cause of disease. Are safe and harmless in all
cases where cathartics are required, for either sex, for
young or old. Try them fairly, and you will never
use any more imported pills. Price 25 cents.

	EYE BALSAM. For dimness of vision, weak or
drooping eyelids, inflamed eyes, old ulcers, sores,
ringworm, tetters, cracked or sore lips, hands, etc.
Price 25 cents.

	CONKLIN SALVE. For pains or weakness in
the side, back, breast, or other parts of the system,
cuts, wounds, sores, etc. Price 25 cents.

	ESSENCE OF LIFE cures cholera, diarrhea,
summer complaints, coughs, cholics, toothache, and
many other ills. Price 50 cents.

   These medicines are for sale, wholesale and retail, at 

	ZION’S CO-OPERATIVE DRUG STORE,

Salt Lake City, and at most of the co-operative stores
throughout the Territory.

  If not kept in your stores, ask your merchants to
send for them.

  Co-operative stores throughout the Territory fur-
nished on commission, or sold at rates advantageous
to purchasers.

  AGENTS are authorized to refund the money,
where the medicines do not give satisfaction, and
distribute to the poor needing the pills at expense of
the proprietor one-twelfth of amount disposed of.

From the Laboratory of
						J. E. JOHNSON,
						 -St. George, Utah.
[new column]
		WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 


		A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL. 

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.
	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!”

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on health and dress, correspondence,
editorials on leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading.
	
	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In WOMAN'S EXPONENT a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	WOMAN'S EXPONENT will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarte.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1  Copy one year,	     $2.00	  1 Copy six months.    $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

  Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


Woman's Exponent.
