[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | February | Issue: 12 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN suffrage has begun to make
progress even in France. On Jan. 20, the
French Senate, by a vote of 132 to 84, ex-
tended to women engaged in business the
right to vote for judges of the tribunals of
commerce.
	MISS PIER a fascinating lawyer of Mil-
waukee, and a graduate of the University
of Wisconsin Law School, was, on motion
of Col. Vilas, admitted to the Supreme
Court of the United States, Wednesday of
this week.
	“GIRLS are teachers in all our public
schools, their salaries and position are
largely decided by the political favor of
those who have votes. Those who have a
voice in the appointment of school superin-
tendents, commissioners of education and
trustees and the salaries of teachers, would
be more likely to receive favors than those
who have no political influence whatever.”
	“GIRLS have the same interest in good
government that their brothers have and
they have equally responsible duties to ful-
fil in the State, the church and the home,
hence their influence, and their opinions
should have equal weight in the framing of
laws, and the choice of law makers. It is
the right and duty of every girl to vote
when she attains the legal age of twenty -
one.”
	A SCHOOL suffrage bill has been introduced
in the Ohio House of Representatives by
Mr. Wood to extend the right of snffrage to
women, and to make them eligible for
school officers. Another bill introduced
provides that married women shall be
eligible to perform the duties of executrix
or administratrix whether married before or
after their appointment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY	FEBRUARY 1, AND 15, 1894.


