[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | February | Issue: 12 | Title: A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO. | Author: Unknown]

		A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO.

	ONE of the very important resources of
the Territory which attracted marked at-
tention at the Columbian Exposition was
the Utah Silk Exhibit at the Woman’s
Building; and we fully realize that the op-
portunity given us to exhibit our silk to the
world is due to Mrs. Potter Palmer, Presi-
dent of the Board of Lady Managers, whose
intelligent sympathy and keen appreciation
of the needs of industrial women rendered
her the constant champion of this worthy
enterprise.
	Today the annual importation of un-
prepared silk alone into the United States
amounts to over $35,000,000; and the
quality of silk which they procure is such
that our manufacturers cannot discover the
art of putting a luster on it which will last,
or give us a fabric which will in any way
compete with the foreign manufactured silk.
Apparently there is very grave misunder-
standing of silk in our country. The
beauty and luster of the oriental silk is
supposed to be due to some unknown art in
manufacturing and dyeing, and that all
silk is silk of very nearly the same quality.
This is a mistake. There are as many
grades of silk as you may expect to find of
fruit in an orchard. By thoroughly under-
standing the nature of the worms, provid-
ing them with proper food, this may be con-
trolled by the producer. Yet it is as im-
practicable to attempt to raise only the best
grade of silk as of any other agricultural
product.
	The great Fair just over has given us an
opportunity to learn something of what
has been done in this industry. We find
that silk has been raised to a considerable
extent in Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kansas,
California, Georgia and Florida; in fact in
almost every state in the Union, and in
most cases by women. No doubt in many
parts of our country where the mulberry
will grow a much better quality of silk can
be raised than is now being imported; but
as the climate has much to do with the
quality and luster of the silk we feel confi-
dent that in America, Utah will be the
home of the silk worm, for our silk con-
tains the same luster, elasticity and dura-
bility as that which can be produced in any
country in the world.
	This industry in Utah began in the year
1855 or 1856. In the past it has been
carried on mostly in the homes of the
people, yet we find much has been done in
a public way. Brigham Young when
Governor of Utah procured a supply of
mulberry seed from France and in a few
years fifty acres of mulberry trees were
planted out in orchards or groves in Salt
Lake and Utah counties. From that time
they have been grown in all parts of the
Territory,—in nearly every town and
village—and they have flourished luxuriant-


[Column 1]
ly; it is estimated that there are at least
two hundred and fifty acres of mulberry
trees in Utah at present.
	The services of some experienced seri-
culturists from France and Italy have been
secured to give instructions to the people in 
raising the worms. Uuder the direction of
Mrs. Dunyon there were raised in six
weeks 700 pounds of cocoons, which at that
time were worth $2.00 per pound in 
France.
	In 1876 a Territorial organization was
effected, called the Deseret Silk Association,
(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, President.) for
the purpose of promoting the industry by
means of united efforts. Auxiliary as-
sociations were formed in several counties
in which women were active directors and
practical workers. Cocoons were raised in
large quantities, but for lack of means
manufacturies were not permanently es-
tablished. During one year this association
paid to operators $1,500. and the quantity
of silk prepared was 400 pounds. There
have been raised in Utah over twenty eight
thousand pounds of cocoons.
	Utah silk was exhibited at the Centennial
Celebration in Philadelphia, and examined
by experts who attested to its excellence,
and awarded a diploma. Utah cocoons
have been placed on the market in San
Francisco and Philadelphia and pronounced
a very superior quality. During the
failure of silk worms in France a large
quantity of eggs were sent there, which
were considered by them to be very good, 
and for which we received a very high
price. This for a time found a market for
large quantities of cocoons also.
	In the manufacturies of the East little
has been done in reeling silk, and as there
is no duty on the unprepared silk (while all
manufactured silk is imported under a
heavy duty) they seem to prefer importing
silk in bales, our people not having had
sufficient experience to make them perfect
reelers, and our silk in that condition could
not pass the examination to which it was
subjected, therefore could not be disposed
of. At one time the manufacturing of silk
thread was quite extensively and success-
fully carried on by Judge Alexander Pyper
in Salt Lake City, and for some time Z. C.
M. I. Shoe Factory was supplied with thread,
which it is said was very much better than
any they have ever been able to import. It
was also much desired by saddle and har-
ness makers because of its superior strength.
This enterprising industry was brought to
a sudden end by the death of its promoter.
Thus when we were brought in close com-
munion with the East by the railroads, and
having a country so very rich in its resour-
ces and it being no longer necessary for the
mother to make the cloth with which she
clothed her family, the culture of silk was
becoming a thing of the past. But we are
now being made aware of the fact that with
our rapidly increasing population every
resource of the country must be fully de-
veloped, and we hope in the near future to
establish manufacturies and put up with a
little inconvenience in the silks we wear
until we learn to do the work perfectly.
	When the Board of Lady Managers sent
an invitation to the women of Utah, desir-
ing them to contribute something to the
decoration of the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, it was decided that nothing
would be more representative of the thrift
and industry of the Territory and so entire-
ly woman’s work as a pair of home raised

[Column 2]
silk portiers, the design to be the Sego Lily
(the floral emblem of Utah) designed and
embroidered by our own ladies. The
portiers as a proof of our wise selection
were received with profound surprise, it
not having been known that such a quality
of silk could be raised in America.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury, National
Commissioner from Utah, was asked if
Utah could make an exhibit of silk, which
might lead to the encouragement of seri-
culture in the United States, if an ap-
propriation could be obtained from Con-
gress. The money being procured the
offer was accepted, although the Fair was
then open. As no silk had been raised for
four years this was no easy task at home,
yet we succeeded in collecting a number of
silk dresses, silk shawls, scarfs, fringes,
hosiery, knitting and sewing silk and twists,
a quantity of reeled silk and cocoons,
these, with the portiers, made our cases
both artistic and interesting. We also en-
gaged a young lady born and raised in
Utah to reel, and a woman to weave and
procured a primitive loom, reel and twist-
ing wheel, with all attachments, which
had been used here in the early days.
	This exhibit attracted a great deal of at-
tention and in the last catalogue issued it
was prominently mentioned as one of the
most interesting exhibits in the Woman’s
Building, and of especial interest to in-
dustrial women. Among those who
visited it were many foreigners who were
experienced in seri culture, who were very
much interested. One Frenchman who is
engaged in selling French silks in America
said of one piece of silk which he was
looking at “That if we could raise silk of
that quality we had an unknown source of
wealth which would be more to us than
any amount of gold if properly
manipulated.’’ Many kindergarten work-
ers took notes of every detail, and think it
will be a wonderful thing to introduce into
their work. Women interested in industrial
homes were just as anxious to know all
they could and felt confident, that if taken
up in a simple way, would furnish interest-
ing employment for their girls, which
might in time bring a very profitable re-
muneration. We sincerely trust the
exhibit will do a great deal of good in the
direction for which it was intended, and
that we will fully appreciate the benefits
which it has brought to us at home.
	Our silk was examined by a committee of
Japanese under the Department of Manufac-
ture, and awarded a medal and a diploma,
and under the department of agriculture by
American experts, who also awarded it a
medal and a diploma. Besides this a vast
amount of valuable information was ob-
tained by the exhibitors, which the Fair
with its visitors afforded, which because of
the secretive way the arts of raising and
preparing silk have been held were before
unknown to us. Besides the exhibit made
at the Woman’s Building the ladies of
Davis county contributed a set of furniture
(seven pieces) to the ladies reception room
in the Utah Building, upholstered in home
raised silk, it was a sage green brocaded
with a spray of wild sage, the color har-
monizing with the other furnishings in the
room. The upper part of the windows
were festooned very artistically with cocoons
and a frieze of peacock feathers, which to-
gether presented to the weary sight-seer
such a restful and cool appearance that it
was greatly admired, and many having

[Column 3]
heard of it from their friends came to see it
for themselves. We feel that if the wo-
men of Utah can receive some assistance
and will take hold of this industry, which
is so particularly adapted to women and
permanently establish it, it will give labor
of a profitable nature to many of our wo-
men and be a great benefit to the nation, by
keeping at home a vast amount of money.
	The raising of the worm is a labor which is
extremely interesting, and to the womanly
heart brings out a loving care and interest
which makes it more than mere labor.
The reeling demands such an acute and
gentle touch as can only be found in the
hands of women. The weaving furnishes
a broad field for artistic work in coloring
and designing, as well as light labor, and 
will bring to any industrious woman a 
profitable remuneration, and should it not
be a great source of pride to any young wo-
man who could raise prepare and weave
the silk in her own gowns.
	As has been stated there are thousands
of mulberry trees already growing, the
climate is well adapted to the silk worm;
the freedom from disease which is so fatal
in damp climates, and with hundreds of
women anxious to engage in the industry,
things look propitious for the development
of an industry to be established which will
be a source of considerable wealth and
revenue to the Territory.
