[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: THIS AND THAT. | Author: Unknown]

THIS AND THAT.

	The Old Folks' Excursion comes off on the 26
inst. It will be the 15th anniversary, and the
destination is Lester Park, Ogden City.
	We acknowledge with thanks and a full appreci-
ation of the delicate expressions of affection,
floral tributes from Mrs. Jane Cowan, Misses Kate
and E. Wells, and Mrs. A. W. Cannon; also a
very handsome and fragrant bouquet of wild
flowers from Miss Caroline and Master Volney
Crocheron.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, of this City, accom-
panied by her daughter, has gone East to the
State of New York to attend a centennial celebra-
tion of the town of Phelps, Ontario Co., the
place of her nativity. Mrs. Kimball was speci-
ally invited to represent her father's family, the
Grangers, at the public demonstration which is to
be made on the occasion, June 19, 1889.
	The name of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
was changed to Latter-day Saints' College, by
formal action of the Board of Directors, on the
15th of May, 1889. We have received the Annual
Circular issued for the Fourth Academic Year,
1889-1890, and shall notice more fully at another
time. We have observed in glancing through it,
several changes, which mark the progress of this
excellent school, and feel confident of the success
of a college where religious teaching is at the
foundation of educational work.
	Clara Barton, President of the Red Cross, is
doing effective work on a large scale at the scene
of suffering in Johnstown. This remarkable
woman is a public benefactor, and deserves ever-
lasting gratitude for her efficient labors among the
sick and afflicted, the wounded and dying, not
only on the battle-field, but in times of peace,
when dire calamities of any kind have befallen a
place or people; whenever and wherever suffer-
ing humanity has called for gentle woman's minis-
trations, nothing daunted, she has gone like an
angel 'mid scenes' the most appalling. Her name
is written in deeds of valor and charity, far more
imperishable, than if in letters of gold, for they
are engraven unmistakably upon human hearts.
	The Alumni Association of the Deseret Uni-
versity, had a most delightful meeting and ball at
the University Building in this City, on Wedens-
day evening June 12. The programme was a
most excellent one, being a pleasing variety of
exercises, songs, music. speeches, toasts, etc.
The banquet prepared for two hundred was in
every way a perfect success; the tables were
artistically decorated with flowers which always
adds greatly to any scene, and to the enjoyment
of the participants.
	The University commencement exercises were

[Column 2]

held in the Salt Lake Theatre on Thursday,
June 13, and were of a most interesting character
of which we hope to give a more full account in
the near future; also the names of the graduates
and other items of the brilliant and successful
affair.
	The three young girls who graduated in the
literary course were, Misses Mary Lewis, May
Preston, and Maud Merrill of Salt Lake City.
Miss Preston, representing the graduates in the
literary course, read an essay "Poetry as a Moral
Influence," which was received with hearty and
richly merited applause and a shower of flowers,
which must have been very delightful. Miss
Bessie Dean sang a ballad "Laddie" in her most
happy manner, and was also enthusiastically
complimented.
	Friday was "Field Day" for the Deseret Uni-
versity at Lake Park, where a most enjoyable
afternoon and evening was spent by the teachers,
graduates and their friends; dancing at the
pavilion was kept up until a late hour.
	To the principal, Dr. J. R. Park must be attri-
buted much of the success of the institution, and
he will surely feel laudably proud of the honors
and gratitude which are rightfully bestowed upon
him and his fellow laborers, who have been so
many years associated in the University's educa-
tional work. Professors Toronto, Kingsbury and
Paul also come in for a goodly share in the
public debt of gratitude.
	In honor of Mrs. Elliot Sandford and her hus-
band, the late Chief Justice of this Territory,
previous to their leaving Utah, (and whose re-
moval from the judicial bench the people so much
regret) an excursion party to the lake was planned
and successfully carried out by Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. W. W. Riter. There were
about fifty invitations given, and Mr. Riter
placed a car at the disposal of the company.
There was no particular programme, except
having a good time generally, and it was
thoroughly an enjoyable affair. The day was a
fair one, as most June days are in this climate.
The party seemed happily grouped and the
ladies in charge did all in their power to make
the hours speed merrily.
	A few indulged in baths, but most of the party
sat in the pavilion, chatting and watching the
bathers and admiring the wonderful lake, the
western view, and the mountains beyond, until
the late train having arrived, on which the Judges
were expected, a call was made to repair to the
dining room, where the guests were served to an
elaborate dinner, including all the delicacies of
the season.  Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs.
F. S. Richards, (her husband having been unavoid-
ably detained), Judge Sanford and wife, Judge
Anderson and wife, also Miss Anderson and Mrs.
McCoy, were seated at the head of the table;
Delegate John T. Caine and wife, and Mrs. Buck
of Keokuk, were near them, and other ladies and
gentlemen filled the long table on either side, and
a merry company they were indeed.
	Mrs. Sandford had many gifts of flowers,
baskets and bouquets, and she looked radiantly
happy withal. It was very much regretted that
Judge Henderson aud wife, and Judge Judd and
wife, who were to have been of the party
could not attend; also that President Angus M.
Cannon who accompanied the party, was obliged
to return on an early train.
	On Saturday, June 8th, Judge and Mrs. Sanford
left Salt Lake City for the East, going by way
of the National Park. They have left many
warm friends and admirers in Utah, who will
gladly welcome them back should they ever re-
turn.
	All over the land in America and elsewhere 
abroad, the deepest sympathy for the sufferers of 
Johnstown has been felt, and in many places and
in many ways expressed; not only in touching

[Column 3]

and eloquent words, but also in material aid and
assistance coming from all parties, and all sections
of the country.
	Utah has responded heartily, as evinced by the
carloads of provisions sent and money liberally
donated by individuals and business firms. Also
by the united efforts of the citizens of Salt Lake
City, in planning, and carrying into execution the
Mammoth Concert in the large Tabernacle, the
proceeds of which it is now estimated will be over
seven thousand dollars.
	In this delightful entertainment for so noble a
purpose, the best local talent in the City, gave
their services with glad hearts and voices and
willing hands, to swell the fund for the benefit of
suffering humanity.
	Young ladies have not been idle, as we under-
stand quite a considerable sum was raised by
selling bouquets on the streets. Of course youth
beauty and flowers are in themselves attractive,
but when a noble purpose is in view, the enter-
prise was sure to be a grand success.
	In Ogden, a Benefit concert was given at the
tabernacle on short notice, but it was quite a
brilliant affair, and there as in Salt Lake, the best
local talent united heart and heand to make it a
success. Quite a sum was raised there too, to
swell the fund by the little girls selling bouquets,
in booths fitted up for the purpose on the streets.
All the flowers were donated from the gardens
round about. It was a very pretty sight to see
these sweet wee maidens surrounded with an
abundance of the most choice and lovely roses
and flowers of June, engaged in such a charitable
work at their tender age.
	We regret exceedingly our lack of space to
give more special details of what has been done.
Ogden, Provo, and other cities in Utah have also
raised money for the sufferers, by individual do-
nations. Some of the means we understand, is
to be devoted to the Seattle people, who were
sufferers on account of the great fire which
occured there recently.


