The Blessings of Family Unity Irene W.. Buehner For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh (Mt. 19:5-6). NE of the nicest things Oo about marriage is acquir- ( ue) ing membership in a new Hey family. This does not take the place of your own family, but merely enlarges your sphere of affection. If married couples are "no more twain, but one flesh," as the Lord intended, we should accept and love all those who enter our families through marriage as our very own. With this new membership, comes the responsibility of fitting into the established family pattern. This is made so much easier if one is welcomed into the family with warmth and love. When members of the family develop a genuine fondness for one another, they are well on their way toward family unity. The Buehner family has tried to accomplish this family unity. Perhaps a glimpse into the lives of Grandpa and Grandma Buehner will reveal how well they have succeeded. When the Latter-day Saint missionaries knocked on the door of the Carl F. Buehner home in Stuttgart, Germany, in the year 1899, they found a devoted young couple who listened to their words. It is the spirit that converts people to the gospel, and as a family we shall always be grateful to the missionaries who kindled that spint within Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. They were baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on October 31, 1899. In the spring of 1901, Carl F. Buehner, his young wife Anna Bertha, and their two infant sons, Carl, age two, and Otto, a babe in arms, emigrated to Salt Lake City, Utah. Their story is the story of hundreds of converts to the Church who at that time felt the urgency to come to Zion to establish a home close to a temple of our Heavenly Father. What a sad day it must have been for these people to leave father, mother, and dear ones behind and embark for a new world. It is difficult for those of us who have not experienced this to understand what their feelings must have been. I am always pained when I see an uprooted tree, with its bare root fibers exposed to the ravages of drying sun and wind, but there is comfort and hope when we find a young tree transplanted in a new environment where it will receive plenty of water and sunshine to make it fruitful. The Buehners found their new environment fruitful and a land of opportunity. The people in this new land were kind and helpful. However, there were problems to overcome, and there were difficult times ahead. Grandpa Buehner worked hard to support his family and establish a home. 'The language was difficult to: learn. They studied and lived the gospel principles, and on March 18, 1903, they were endowed and sealed for all eternity in the Salt Lake 'Temple. Page 40] 402 fee + THE CARL F. BUEHNER FAMILY Photograph taken in Stuttgart, Germany, just before the family left their native land for a new home in America. Standing: Carl F. Buehner; seated: Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; children, left to right: Carl W. Buehner, age two; Otto Buehner, age six months. RANDPA Buehner purchased property in the Forest Dale area near what was then known as Brigham Young's farmhouse. With his own hands, he built a large twostory, gray stone house for his family. Most of the Buehner children were born in that house, which was to be the home of the parents as long as they lived. Eleven children were born to this couple, eight sons and three daughters. The first three children were born in Germany, a daughter Frida, who died soon after birth, Carl W., and Otto. Walter, Adolph, John A., Philip H., Paul, Bertha, Clarence, and Helen were born in America. Walter and Adolph died in their youth. In a family of boys, you can imagine how welcome those two little girls were. Helen remembers receiving a card from her father, written in his best English, when he THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY was on a trip east, which said, "There isn't a little girl in all New York who is as sweet as you. Your loving Daddy." Grandpa Buehner had a firm, unwavering testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. An old friend of his wrote a letter to my husband in which he stated: "You had the best. Father anyone could ask for. He was _ the same every day, six days a week." All of his children can remember Grandpa Buehner testifying of his knowledge that the gospel was true and that prayers are answered. He literally led the way to Church for all of his family, usually a pace or so_ ahead of his beloved wife and the children. They sat in the same place every Sunday at meeting. The Buehner home was an oldfashioned home. Making bread and milking cows were regular - procedures. Early to bed and early to rise was expected by the parents and accepted by the children. The boys worked as soon as they were able to hold a trowel steady. The girls were taught to cook, darn, mend, and sew. Every Buehner daughter-in-law remembers when she was married finding the shoe boxes of socks in her husband's wardrobe. Each stocking was neatly initialed, darned in innumerable places, and rolled carefully in place. Waste and extravagance were never tolerated. The family home was like a magnet which drew all the family and their friends to it. The boys always brought their girl friends home to meet the family, usually on Sunday evening after sacrament meeting. At first I thought the purpose was to give the girls the opportunity of meeting the family, but later I realized the reverse was true. The boys 403 wanted the family's approval of their choice. Grandma Buehner served delicious sandwiches, made _ with homemade bread, and plenty of good milk. Frequently there were tasty apple cottage cheese pies, too, which were kept in a wide drawer in the kitchen table. Many times some of their German friends would call on them also. One I remember in particular played a _ bandonion. Whenever Brother Laubengaier came, Grandpa Buehner would bring his smaller bandonion out of its hiding place and join in playing beautiful hymns and Strauss waltzes. There was such a wonderful warm feeling in the home that every newcomer felt welcome and wanted. RANDPA and Grandma Buehner seemed to accept wholeheartedly the girls their sons chose to marry. 'Their affection for each of us seemed to be just as deep as for their own children. As a result, the entire family followed the pattern of acceptance which the parents manifested toward us. 'Their primary concern was for the children to have temple marriages and all of them had this privilege. Each Buehner brother and sister is vitally interested in the other's welfare in a subtle and unobtrusive way. One incident that was not quite so unobtrusive happened at the time John Buehner gave his diamond ring to Verda. John had sought what he thought was a less "trafficked" area as the place to propose marriage. He had just placed the ring on Verda's significant finger, when brother Paul burst into the room to borrow a tie. He grasped the situation at a glance and hastily kissed Verda in brother- zz THE BUEHNER HOME, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This two-story gray stone home was built by 'Grandpa'? Carl F. Buehner, with his own hands, and has been the center of family activity for many years. Seated on the step, left to right: Bertha Buehner Lambert; Paul Buehner; Clarence Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to ght: John A. Buehner; * 'Grandma" Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; "Grandpa" Carl F. Buehner; Philip H. Buehner. Ly welcome before John had a chance. There is a pronounced strain of good humor in all the Buehners. This was a delightful characteristic of Grandpa Buehner. I remember hearing him describe hard times by saying, ""The bread was cut so thin we could read the newspaper through it." My earliest recollection of the Buehner family was hearing of their athletic prowess. The name Buehner was posted prominently on high school and Church tournament scoreboards. The family enjoys telling the story of Grandpa Buehner first football game. In spite of the fact that his sons had been so active in sports in their school years, their THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY father had showed little interest. He had never seen a game. Otto finally persuaded him to go with him to see this particular one, because John was expected to star. Otto had explained the rudiments of the game to his father. On the first play John caught a beautiful pass and ran through the opponent's defense toward the goal. Suddenly, just short of the goal line, he turned to check his pursuers, stumbled on the rough turf, and fell. Grandpa Buehner rose to his feet with his arms flying in the air, directing John in loud terms to, "Go on, Johann, go on!" His interest in the boy's athletic activities was vocal and vehement after that experience. HE living room of the Buehner home was the hub of all the family activities. A round diningroom table stood in the center, over which hung a large bright light, excellent for studying. 'There were large comfortable chairs and even 405 a leather sofa in this room, which was dining and living room combined, a forerunner of our modern family rooms, without the distraction of television or radio. I remember once walking into this room to find Grandpa Buehner sitting in the large red leather rocker. Lucile, Carl's wife, was sitting on a little stool at his feet asking his opinion on problems of child rearing. It was a pleasant sight, and I had the feeling that Lucile gathered great strength from the simple direct comments of Grandpa Buehner. You were never interrupting anything when you walked into this room, because conversation went on and you were brought right into it. As the children grew up, there was seldom a year when one of the boys was not serving in the mission field. The four oldest boys completed their missions before the death of their parents. With so manv other children at home, this might have been considered a sacriTHE BUEHNER FAMILY GROUP Seated. Left to right: Lucile Thurman Buehner; Irene Williams Buehner; Marjorie Evans Buehner; Berda Crouch Buehner; Bertha Buehner Lambert; Kay Yaeger Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to nght: Carl W. Buehner; Paul Buehner; Philip H. Buehner; John A. Buehner; Q. Cannon Lambert; Clarence Buehner; Roger S. Woods. 406 fice, but not to Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. For them it was the fulfillment of one of their fondest dreams, and they always felt it was a great blessing in their home to have a son in the missionary service. Several Buehner children were in the university at the same time. Each one had to manage to finance himself, because work was hard to find and the family income was limited during the depression years. One winter the family subsisted on a large sack of split peas which Grandpa Buehner had received in place of money for work he had done. The boys worked wherever they could find work to be done. Many times they parked cars for the patrons at the university functions for a dollar a night. Some of the Buehners were responsible for making out the payrolls for all the students working on these projects. 'Twice a month the dining room table in the Buehner home was the gathering place for carrying out this detail. Grandma Buehner never objected to the numerous and varied activities which her children and their friends brought into the house. In her quiet, sweet way she made all who came feel welcome. IRTHDAYS and Christmas time were always remembered with some special something for each one. Money was not plentiful for them, and today the children cannot even imagine how their mother managed so well. Grandma Buehner passed away July 19, 1935, quite suddenly, following surgery. She was only sixtyone years old. Grandpa Buehner was so lonely without his loyal com panion. I remember very well, he put his hand to his chest and said, "Irene, my heart is broken." Nothing seemed to assuage his grief. Four months later he followed his beloved wife in death. The children all felt the responsibility of holding the family together. Grandpa Buehner had been indeed the head of his household and had set a fine example for them to follow. They realized that one of the things which holds a family together is to do things together. The home was remodeled to accommodate the John Buehner family in the basement, the Paul Buehner family in the upstairs apartment, and the ground floor housed the four unmarried children, the youngest of whom was eighteen. The two eldest brothers, Carl and Otto, lived close enough to drop in frequently to give direction and counsel when problems arose. Plans were made to hold an annual Christmas family party, and to celebrate the family birthdays as far as possible. Genealogy work was promoted, and as the names were cleared the family did the endowment work and family sealings were arranged. Another family project was helping the youngest son finance his mission to Germany. The depression of 1929 left its toll of doubts, debts, and discouragements with the Buehners, as it did with so many families at that time. Each brother had gone his separate way trying to earn a living for himself and those dependent upon him. After death had taken both mother and father, the idea of re-establishing a business, combining the talents of the six brothers, was born anew. The family felt a deep sense of THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY humility when Carl W. Was named the bishop of Forest Dale Ward. To be named the bishop of the very ward in which his parents had lived, reared their family, and spent such happy years was a privilege. HE plans for the double wedding reception for the two girls was a joyous family effort. Everyone helped, and the rooms of the old house once again were the scene of happy family festivities. The Christmas party for the Buehner family which was started twenty-six years ago has become a wonderful tradition. We can no longer meet in one of our homes but have to hire a hall. The programs are always interesting because they are furnished by members of the family. There were over one hundred Buehners at the party last year. Another occasion we all look forward to is the July Fourth reunion which is held in Big Cottonwood Canyon where we can enjoy the out-of-doors, hiking, and_ playing games. The children of Grandma and Grandpa Buehner try to celebrate each other's birthdays with a German dinner, which is often a potluck party, with each couple bringing a dish of German food. These 407 are always so enjoyable we are reluctant to miss one of them. We have noted with pleasure that the Buehner "cousins" are now finding occasions for parties and temple sessions. I am grateful for the Buehner family, and their acceptance of me and the love we have for one another. Each family is a source of strength and comfort to every other family. 'There is no spirit of competition. Each one seems to be trying to do his best to maintain the high standards which their father and mother set for them. A wonderful legacy was left to the family. Their children have a testmony of the gospel. They were taught to put the Church first in their lives, to have family prayers, and to stay close to one another. We regret that most of the grandchildren were not privileged to know their Buehner grandparents. We all pray constantly that our own children will somehow feel their influence and be able to measure up to the heritage which they made possible for them. In retrospect, the family solidarity this family so much enjoys seems to have come from the strength and dedication of two wonderful people, Grandma and Grandpa Buehner, who loved the gospel above all else and tried their best to live it. ——— - A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels.... My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head (Proverbs 1:5, 8-9). In Memoriam-