IN MEMORIAM — ELDER GEORGE Q. MORRIS dent of the Eastern States Mission. Three years later, at the October Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Morris was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Morris, always interested in the historical heritage of the Latter-day Saints, served as executive chairman of the "This Is the Place" monunrent commission. It was under his charge that the great monument was erected at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, commemorating the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley. Elder Morris was also active in association with President George Albert Smith and others in marking and preserving Utah's trails and landmarks, being executive vice-president of the Utah Pioneer Trails Association. He was also a distinguished member of the Sons of the Utah Pioneers Association, lending his appreciative enthusiasm and his wise direction to the many projects and lasting accomplishments of this organization. In 1946 and 1947, Elder Morris was associated with President David O. McKay 409 in preparing for the centennial observance of the arrival of the first pioneers in the promised valley. Throughout his long and useful life, Elder Morris exemplified in all his devoted Church service, a great knowledge and a consistent awareness of the gospel as the continuing pattern of eternal life. Elder Morris married Emma Ramsey in the Salt Lake Temple in 1905. They observed their golden wedding anniversary in 1955. Sister Morris and three daughters and one granddaughter survive Elder Morris. The daughters are Mrs. Edward A. (Margery) Woods, Miss Marion Morris, and Mrs. Roy T. (Helen) Stewart. The members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend their love and sympathy to the family of Elder Morris, and join with the membership of the Church in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the dedicated and exemplary life of Elder Morris, and for the example of his wisdom, his kindness and devotion, his spiritual guidance, and his lofty ideals. $44 And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation... Which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fail (Helaman 5:12). PART IIl—BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting made by an unknown artist \\/ RS. Bathsheba W. Smith, who | was General President of the Relief Societies of the Church from 1901 to 1910, was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born at Shinnston, West Virginia, on May 3, 1822. She joined the Church in August 1837, when she was fifteen years of age. The year following her baptism she went with her parents to Missouri, and at Quincy, Illinois, in the spring of 1839, she saw the Prophet for the first time and heard him speak. In 1841 she was married to George A. Smith, a cousin of the Prophet, and Page 410 at that time the youngest of the apostles. Sister Smith wrote the following in 1905. She died in Salt Lake City in 1910, the last one of those faithful sisters present at the first meeting of Relief Society in 1842. "T joined the Church in Harrison County, West Virginia, in 1837. Not long afterwards, in the fall of 1838, I was very anxious to go to Missouri. I told my sister I wanted to go with her. She said, "Oh no'; and as there was only one wagon for the family to travel in, she could not take me. It hurt my feelings very much and I commenced to cry. When I went upsstairs to bed a voice said to me, "Weep not; you will go this fall.' I wiped my eyes and was as happy as anybody you ever saw. Next morning my sister said, "You have got over feeling so badly, because you could not go to Missouni.' 'But I am going this fall' was my reply. I felt just that sure about it. That was the first time I felt the whisperings of the voice of inspiration to me, but it has come to me since, in many of the worries and perplexities of life and given me assurance and peace. "Father sold his farm in West Virginia, and we moved to Missouri in 1838. We went to Illinois in February 1839, but did not see the Prophet Joseph until the spring, when he got out of prison and came SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH to Illinois. A conference was called soon after Joseph and his brethren arrived at Quincy. My brother took my sisters and me and went to that conference, and there I saw Joseph for the first time and heard him speak. I knew he was a Prophet of God, when I joined the Church, before I saw him; my testimony was strengthened when I heard him preach, though at this time I did not get to speak to him. I do not remember when I did first speak to him and shake hands with him. "The Prophet was a handsome man—splendid looking, a large man, tall and fair. He had a very nice complexion, his eyes were blue, and his hair a golden brown. "My first impressions were that he was an extraordinary man—a man of great penetration; he was different from any other man I ever saw; he had the most heavenly countenance, was genial, affable and kind, and looked the soul of honor and integrity. "T have heard the Prophet Joseph preach many a time. I have heard him prophesy, and I never knew but that everything came to pass that he said. "Joseph said we would come to the Rocky Mountains, and he had a company of young men selected to hunt a location for a home for the Saints. Samuel W. Richards was one of that company. I heard of it when we were in Illinois, and _ remember an old lady coming in and talking to my mother, about what Joseph the Prophet had said that we would be in the Rocky Mountains sometime. I said I would like to go soon; I would like to get away from our enemies. She gave me a 411 right good scolding, saying it was terrible to think of going to the Rocky Mountains. "Joseph attended one of our Relief Society meetings in the lodge room. He opened the meeting by prayer. His voice trembled very much, after which he addressed us. He said: 'According to my prayer I will not be with you long to teach and instruct you, and the world will not be troubled with me much longer.' "My testimony today is, I know Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet, as well as I know anything; I know that he was just what he professed to be. I am the only one now living who had her endowments while he was alive, and I received them in Nauvoo before the Temple was built. I have seen many good men, but they had not the gift and blessing that Joseph had. He was truly a Prophet of God" (Young Woman's Journal, ). SMITH BATHSHEBA W.