Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE BEST LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE: In these last days that are so pregnant with evil tendencies and influences, and the insidious foes that lurk on every side to lead astray the innocent and unwary... All that makes for better hopes and aspirations, purer motives and correct living should be fostered and maintained.... If our sisters only lived up to their privileges what an influence they might exert over their associates.... Remember always that the Gospel is first... And will lead to the fount of all true wisdom. — Editorial GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY: Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe... Addressed the conference upon Domestic Science.... Referred to the daughters who expect to marry and become mothers, thought they should be taught in the science of housekeeping and home making.... Our girls many of them never do anything in their homes, she knew of girls who had a fine education, could play the piano, but could not even make a plain gingham apron, and they marry and are not qualified to perform the duties or superintend the home.... One of the first things necessary is to know how to make good bread. Mothers are sometimes at fault in not teaching the girls because it is easier to do it themselves, but it is the duty of every gitl to look into these domestic matters and prepare for home making and life will be sweeter and better.... — E. B. Wells, Secretary THE MASTER'S STROKE Touch Thou with gentle strokes divine, oh Lord! Discordant tendrils of life's harpsichord; O, let the vibrant echoes thus awoke Within men's souls, ennobling thoughts evoke. Let sweetest accents from the worlds unknown, Change solemn moan to gentle patient tone. Sublime, triumphant anthems fill the air, To lift all human hearts from mirage of despair. — Ellis R. Shipp OUR NEW DEPARTURE: Our new departure in this first issue of the new volume is giving our readers the pictures of some of the girl students of the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City. One sees at a glance in their faces innocence, truthfulness and a high order of intelligence. It is not given to any of us to read the future, but we are safe in predicting for these young girls a fulness of development, physical, moral, spiritual and intellectual as the years go by, if the best use is made of the opportunities now opening before them. — Editorial NOTES: We are too fond of our own will. We want to be doing what we fancy as mighty things; but the great point is to do small things, when called to them, in a right spirit.. —R. Cecil Page 416 ¢ 4 | ante 4 0 ¢ a Wn Gow Tn OS daad 'ie \egpeas "F Rowe HEA Wie! Yo ONES ARGERY FISHER is the author of Intent Upon Reading (Franklin Watts, publisher), a critical appraisal of children's fiction from 1930 to 1960, which also includes comments on outstanding books for children written in an earlier time. Approaches at classification of this field of literature are made in the various chapters which discuss picture books, books for children six to nine, books on animals, fantasies, formula tales, adventure stories, and family narratives. RINCESS SUGA,_ youngest daughter of Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako of Japan, last year married a commoner. On April fourth she gave birth to a son, the Emperor's seventh grandchild. Since the baby's father is a commoner, the child will not be in the line of succession to the throne. RS. RUTH BIDDULPH, the recipient of a Delta Kappa Gamma scholarship for $2,500, will continue her graduate work at Indiana University. The Delta Kappa Gamma sorority is an honorary women teachers society, which makes available one scholarship for each State in the Nation. Mrs. Biddulph, a teacher of English at Ricks