Work Meeting—The Latter-day Saint Home PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1962-63 Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. AMILIES are __forever" is one of the beliefs that make the Latter - day Saint home stand apart from all other homes in the world. The Latter-day Saint wants his home to be the setting for glorious family living, where LESSON DEPARTMENT love, good will, and creative working together develop the eternal bond between parents and children. Some so-called homes today are not much more than "filling stations" where family members drive in, fill up, and blow out. Others are "quick change" places where the main function is to get ready to go some other place. Latter-day Saints will guard against the disruptive influences that scatter the interests of family members to the far corners, leaving the home bare; contrariwise, they will exert every effort to make the home the matrix around which all else revolves. 'The home then becomes the place where each person feels secure and understood; the place where Latter-day Saint values, inherent in the good life, are nurtured. Such homes do not just happen — it takes study, planning, and good management to bring them about. Other factors needed are suggested by an old adage: "The laborer works with his hands; the craftsman works with his hands and his head; the artist works with his hands and his head and his heart." Surely, to realize fully the objective of an ideal Latter-day Saint home, every family member must work with his hands and his head and his heart. In pioneer days, mothers handed their recipes down to their daughters, and young brides patterned their homes after those of their parents. 'The homemaker had an abundance of time but little money and equipment to work with; in very deed, "woman's work was never done." Today's homemaker, with her many-sided role, has less time for homemaking but more money and equipment than her pioneer counterpart could have dreamed about. Her 463 work may be done in a hurry, is more interesting, less enslaving, more complicated, and at the same time easier than ever before. There are new systems of marketing, new foods and new methods of preparing them. 'There are new mechanical devices to master if she is to make the most of the homemaking profession today. The eight discussions in _ this series will draw information from many sources in order to give the Relief Society member a sound basis on which to evaluate her home in relation to the Latter-day Saint ideal; help her to set some goals for improvements; and help her gain some skill as a home manager in working with her family to achieve these goals. A different method will be used in presenting each discussion. There will be a flip chart, a blackboard, a home values test, a sociodrama, a demonstration, a hidden panel, and a symposium. In each case, there will be a "buzz" session during the work period following the lesson in order that points presented may be discussed and elaborated upon, and that there may be a sharing of ideas about how to put the new suggestions into practice. Does our family time schedule need reorganizing in order that our home may be kept clean and beautiful and provide a suitable setting for our familv activities? Are we living within our income and making the most of all of our resources? Is each member growing in understanding, unselfishness, love, honor, and in being a responsible person? The discussions will help members to know what to do about these queries. The 1962-63 series of discussions have been given the following titles and objectives: Discussion 1—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part I) Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. Discussion 2—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part II) Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. Discussion 3—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part IIT) Objective: To help us understand the value of organizing our time. Discussion 4—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part IV) Objective: To show that decision making is the heart of good management. Discussion 5—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part I) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 6—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part IT) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 7—The Latter-day Home Exemplifies Thrift Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources. Saint Discussion 8—The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Objective: To show the importance of home influence on the training and growth of children. Lite rature—America's