[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 16 | Title: WHEAT. | Author: Unknown]

WHEAT.

“Twheat, wheat!" sang a bird, one autumn
	morn,
As  I plucked for breakfast some ears of corn;
"Twheat, wheat, wheat, wheat!" and it danced
	with glee,
On the bending limb of an apple tree.
That's a happy song, little bird,' I said,
Your children, and mine, will be amply fed.’
"Th'wheat! ch, ch, ch, th'wheat!" chirked the
	chickens, too,
As from perches and barn-loft they clumsily 
	flew.
'Yes, yes, old rooster,' I answered back,
'You shall have your breakfast, and find no lack;
It's only fair that your family begs,
We give them grain, and they give us eggs.'
"Wheat! Wheat!"  all the farmers were calling
	that day,
As to grain fields and uplands they hurried away.
The reapers and threshers must labor with haste,
Lest the golden kernels should fall to waste;
And with brotherly kindness they lend and they
	borrow—
“I’ll help you to day, and you help me tomor-
	row.”
How Good! and how Great!  Who sendeth the
	rain,
And giveth the seed-time and harvest of grain
Fulfilling a promise, are blessings now pour'd, 
Till we're lacking of room for our grain to be
	stored:
“There’s a surplus,” 'tis said, “send it over the
	sea,
Where they make better clothing, and cheaper
	than we.”
But wait!  are they true, those statistics which
	tell,
That of grain, which to England’s sons we sell,
Much more than is used for bread, each-year,
Is made into whiskey and ale and beer?
And are we friends of humanity, then,
Who furnish the means of debauch to men?
Nay, He who supplieth abundance today,
Hath taught us a surer and nobler way;
To build, like Joseph, wise and discreet,
Strong granaries for our surplus wheat;
Storing it up for a time of want,
When famishing nations our shores will haunt.
Can we, blindly, these sacred duties shirk,
While men are among us, pleading for work? 
May we not give them our gran’ries to build,
With the staff of life have our bins well filled, 
That should floods, or drouth, spoil a crop of
	wheat,
Our children may still have bread to eat?
	L. L. G. RICHARDS.


