[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 16 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893.  This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected.  There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	THE evening of February 10th, Mrs.
Mary S. Horne gave a pleasant party at her
residence 532, S. West Temple in this City.
The evening was spent in social conver-
sation and was very enjoyable.  The re-
freshments were all of home cooking
cream biscuits steaming hot, and other
luxuries and nothing could have been more
delicious, or more daintily served than the
refreshments were at this five o'clock tea
by the young ladies of her family, Mrs.
William Horne, Mrs. George Horne and
Miss Nettie Horne. Among those present
were Mesdames Z.  D.  H.  Young, B.  W.
Smith, M.  Isabella Horne, Sarah Cooper,
M. W. Wilcox, E. S. Taylor, E. J. Steven-
son, Etta Ellerbeck, C. Rockwell, M. G.
Taylor, and others.  The writer was also
one of the guests and passed a most delight-
ful evening.  Such pleasant social meetings


bring together in sweet companionship
those that would othewise seldom meet in
these busy days.  Life is so full of work
that some of the workers have need of these
seasons of communion and rest.
	THE Pacific Coast Women's Press As-
sociation have established a monthly peri-
odical at San Francisco "The Bulletin,"
No. 1, Vol. 1, has been received.  It gives
the names of the members of the P. C. W.
P. A. and also Officers and Standing Com-
mittees of the Association.  It also contains
the address of the newly-elected President,
Emily Browne Powell. The editor is
Florence Percy Matheson a woman of
genuine, original, literary ability and
pleasing address.  Mrs. Matheson is the
daughter of Elizabeth Akers Allen with
whose songs and poems the public have
been familiar these many years.  Her col-
lection of poems is entitled, "High Top
Sweetin's."  We wish this new venture the
most perfect success, as an enterprise, and
also because of our appreciation of the ef-
forts of women in the newspaper work.
As a number of the P. C. W. P. A. it
should certainly have our hearty support
and best wishes for the increase of its cir-
culation.
	MISS GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWN who
 resided here for some time and made many
friends while in this City, and whose pen
was always very busy while here writing
verses or other articles for papers and maga-
zines has assumed the assistant editorship
of the New California Magazine.  Doubt-
less our readers will be pleased to learn of
her good luck, especially the ladies of the
Utah Woman's Press Club, to which she
belongs and who miss her presence in the
meetings.


