[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK. | Author: Unknown]

	A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	This issue of the paper closes the twenty-
seventh volume of the Woman’s Exponent,
established June 1, 1872. One can hardly
realize how few women’s papers there were
at that time, the New North West pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was the first
west of the Mississippi river, and only
very few had made their advent in the
Eastern cities. The Golden Dawn in San
Francisco appeared about the same time as
the “Exponent,” but both the New North
West and the Golden Dawn were discon-
tinued long since.
	At the present time there are many wo-
men’s papers and magazines in the United
States so it has ceased to be a novelty, and
they are now an important part of the news-
paper world.
	Here in Utah we have two, one a semi-
monthly, the other a monthly magazine.
The Review which was voted as the organ
of Utah clubs flourished for a while and
was very popular, but has been discon-
tinued.
	We will not weary our readers with de-
tails of newspaper work, its pleasures and
discouragements, but only remind them
that a new volume will commence with
June 1st, and that the paper will appear
in an entirely new dress, and it is ardently
hoped that the women of Utah will feel it
needs their support financially and in other
ways; by creating public sentiment in
favor of sustaining it among women, es-
pecially those connected with the Relief
Society of which the “Exponent” really is
the official organ.
	Presidents of the Relief Society every-
where should make an extra exertion to
make the paper popular, and authorized
agents try to increase their list of paid up
subscribers.
	The editor has been urged to furnish a
complete file of the “Exponent,” the
twenty-seven volumes bound in blue moroc-
ca with gilt lettering, for the World’s Ex-
position in Paris, and considering the in-
terest in the two books sent to Amsterdam
last year, (containing four volumes) it
would seem of sufficient consequence to ex-
hibit the literary work of Western women
in the early days of Utah, when it was
thought everything was too crude for more
than ordinary domestic occupations. Even
now one can read now and then of the ter-
rible ignorance that prevailed here until
recent years.
	Those of us who have been in Utah

[Column 2]
from the beginning know of the societies
literary as well as charitable organized at a
very early period, and the poems and essays
were as high-toned and as creditable in
style as those that are current nowadays.
	The people who settled these valleys
were not ignorant, and did not need mis-
sionaries sent here to be supported by
Christian churches in the East; they were
themselves Christians and not heathens,
and capable of teaching not only schools,
but the Scriptures as taught by the Savior
and His disciples. If the women of Utah
do not wish to be misrepresented in these
respects they should represent themselves
through their own publications. Main-
tain their own periodicals and circulate
them outside among the people of the
world, and especially among the branches
of the Church and of the Relief Society in
places remote from Zion where they are
anxious to know how to conduct and carry
on their own organizations in harmony
with the order maintained throughout the
entire society.
	It is not unlikely that this coming sea-
son will be a prosperous one and at any
rate it is the duty of all the Latter-day
Saints to prophesy good for Zion, and to
strive to have the prophecies fulfilled.
When Zion prospers all is well, and as the
women are a large part of Zion it is only
natural to suppose their affairs will prosper,
and if they are diligent and persevering
the legitimate labors in which they engage
will succeed, and let us believe the “Ex-
ponent” will double its subscription dur-
ing the new year about to begin.


[Column 1]
