DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake was held at Centerville,
Jan. 24, 1890.	
	Pres. Susan Grant presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, "The morning breaks, the
shadows flee." Prayer by Brother Randall,
singing, "Glorious things are sung of Zion."
Present on the stand were Pres. Susan Grant,
and her Counselors, Mrs. Mary Clark and
Lucinda Brown, also quite a number of the
Presidents of branches in the Stake. Minutes
of last Conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Grant was much disappointed that the
sisters who were to be here from the City had
not come. "We have visited some of the
branches and find a faithful few in each one--
"don't think the sisters realize the loss they
sustain by not attending their meetings. Am
pleased to have the brethren attend our
meetings, and know they take an interest in
them, they can correct us if we are wrong, we
do not want to overstep our bounds, we have
to be very prayerful to overcome temptation,
for the adversary is ever on the alert to lead
the people astray, may we be faithful to the
end."
	Coun. Mary Clark addressed the meeting,
We have met together to be blessed and com-
forted; I am pleased with the minutes of our
last conference, they are good. We are all
dependent children on our Heavenly Father,
we should live prayerful all the time, that we
may be able to attend to our many duties.
Spoke of the necessity of talking to our child-
ren and giving them good instructions that
they may not go astray as many are doing.
Where the Spirit of the Lord is there is free-
dom; we have glorious times in meeting to-
gether; it is our desire to do right, and let us
have faith in the ordinances when we have
sickness; if we live right the destroyer will
pass us by. May we spend our time in doing
good and building up the Kingdom.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown felt that the influ-
ence of the Spirit of the Lord was there; I de-
sire to do my part, and assist in the work of
this Kingdom. I love to attend my meetings
and am surprised that the sisters do not attend
their meetings better. We should meet to-
gether often for when the sisters get up and
bear their testimonies it strengthens them and
they feel more united. Spoke of the hardships
we have to pass through. It is necessary for
us to live right from day to day. I desire to
be one of the faithful Saints, and to put my
trust in the Lord; my desire is to live and do
good.
	Sisters Jane Holt and E. Barkdall made
very instructive remarks, and bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of this work.
	Pres. Grant felt that we had been blessed
with the Spirit of the Lord; would say a few
words in regard to our meeting this afternoon.
When I last saw Sister E. B. Wells she thought
it was necessary for us to organize a W. S. A.,
thought we could attend to it this afternoon, but
as the sisters from the city have not come, we
we will defer that and adjourn our meeting
until 2 p.m." Singing, "How beauteous are
thy feet." Benediction by Pres. W. R Smith.
	Afternoon services commenced by singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Brother Nathan Porter. Singing, "I saw a
mighty angel fly."
	Pres. Jane Muir of West Bountiful, Mrs.
Boynton of Kaysville, and Pres. Lucina
Sessions of East Bountiful, represented the
Relief Society in their respective wards, and
bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Brother Nathan Porter then addressed the
meeting. Said it would be very unbecoming
in me to refuse to bear my testimony, but I
feel timid; I don't know as this timidity will
ever leave us. Pres. Young said he never got
over it. Now why is it? It is because we

[Column 2]
come in contact with the divine, and it makes
us feel weak. When we speak by way of ad-
monition we admonish ourselves. When we
have the Spirit of the Lord we can speak with
ease, but when the Spirit is taken from us we
feel barren. I cannot edify my sisters without
the Spirit of the Lord. Many have taken the
glory on themselves and have fallen. You
may criticise me as much as you like, but don't 
criticise the truth that I tell you. We could
have the gifts of the gospel now as much as
we ever did if we sought for them. I wish to
take this opportunity to ask the aid of my
sisters in the Sunday School; you can do it by
teaching your children to be orderly and
obedient at home; what they are allowed to do
at home, they think they can do anywhere
else. The family organization is the founda-
tion of all others. This society is a great help;
it is the head of all societies. May the Lord
bless you and all of us to the end.
	Brother Ianthus Barlow followed. I cannot
say anything to benefit you without the Spirit
of the Lord. I think Joseph gave this society
the right name; they can relieve the poor, and
there are many ways they can do good. It is
as Brother Porter said about the children; they
will remember what their parents teach them;
if they are wayward they will remember what
mother taught them and come back. I ask
the Lord to help us to serve Him aright. Now
sisters may you be blessed as a band of sisters,
and with the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Brother John Pool next addressed the meet-
ing. I have been very much edified in what I
have heard; it has brought many reflections to
my mind There is one thing noticeable in
reading history; mothers have formed the
minds of the children. Those who love virtue
despise the society of the corrupt, and will not
remain in their presence. We make impres-
sions on our children before they are born.
You sisters are holding the destiny of children
and preparing them to receive the priesthood.
Your influence is far greater than the father.
Cultivate the spirit of peace and quietness with
your children. I say unto you sisters go on,
and may the blessing of God attend you in
your efforts.
	Sister Lucy Clark, Sister Hatch, Counselors
Brown and Clark each made a few remarks,
bearing testimony to the truth of what had
been said.
	Pres. Grant made closing remarks. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months,  to meet at
Farmington. Singing, "Children of Zion,
awake from your sadness." Benediction by
Brother Pool. 
SUSAN GRANT, Pres.,
