UTAH W. S. A.
By-laws and Regulations.
ARTICLE I.
This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah.
 ARTICLE II.
The object of the Association shall be to
work for the enfranchisement of all women,
without regard to party, sect, or creed, and to
take such steps from time to time as shall seem
to be wise and expedient for the political ad-
vancement of the women of this Territory.
ARTICLE III.
The officers of this Association shall be a
President, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary,
Assistant Secretary, Corresponding Secretary
and Treasurer, with an Executive Commtttee
of not less than five, who shall hold their re-
spective offices one year, unless sooner removed
for cause.
ARTICLE IV.
All persons wishing to become members of
this Assocaition must pay an initiation fee of
50 cents annually, and must give or send their
names with the money to the Secretary, who
will present them in the order of business to
the next regular meetiug for admission.
ARTICLE V.
The officers of this Association, with the
Executive Committee, shall have power to
change or amend the By-Laws and Regula-
tions at any Executive session, and shall then
submit them to the regular meeting, where
they may be adopted by a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
The Executive Committee shall devise plans
of work suited to the development and progress
of the members of the Association, and co-
operate together with the members in encour-
aging young people to speak, write essays, and
discuss questions upon political matters and
civil government, and such other subjects as
relate thereto; and invite those not already in-
terested in suffrage to join, and encourage them
to become acquainted with the objects of the
organization.
ARTICLE VII.
The names of delegates to the Annual Con-
vention of the N. W. S. A. at Washington
shall be presented and voted upon at the an-
nual meetiug of the Association, previous to
said Convention, or a special meeting called
for the purpose. The Credentials of the dele-
gates shall be prepared by the Executive Com-
mittee and properly signed by the Officers of
the Association.
ARTICLE VIII.
All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in
the absence of the President, the Vice-President
next in order, and all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee or the President, and the Cor-
responding Secretary.
ARTICLE IX.
Regular meetings of this Association shall
be held once a month, and such business trans-
acted as shall be brought to the attention or
the meeting by the Executive Committee of
the Secretary, or other officers, after which
miscellaneous business or discussion will be in
order.
ARTICLE X.
A punctual attendance of the members is
particularly requested, in order to further the
interests of the whole, and to promote harmony
in all plans and methods of organized work.
ARTICLE XI.
All local suffrage associations that may be
organized throughout the Territory, by adopt-
ing these rules, or similar ones, and the Con- 
stitution of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and paying such a per-
centage as shall be agreed upon, shall be con-
sidered auxiliaries, and their representatives or
delegates will be expected to attend a Terri-
torial Suffrage Convention, should one be
called, and entitled to the priviliges pertaining
thereto.


