“FEAR  NOT, ZION.”
	President Woodruff’s views of the political sit-
uation in Salt Lake City given to an associated
press reporter are a very fair statement of the
facts, and there is little need of comment. The
outside element from which the Latter-day Saints
fled with their lives in their hands, a little
more than forty years ago, has pursued them
with a persistency worthy of a better cause, and
after having urged Congress into special legisla-
tion and made all offices once in the gift of the
people appointive, have now succeeded in taking
possession of the City government, here where a
little band of weary pilgrims, worn with travel,
established themselves in the midst of a desert of
sagebrush, where vegetation was not, in a parched
and barren alkali soil, inhabited only by savage
tribes of Indians, wolves, black crickets and
snakes in abundance; and indeed it required al-
most superhuman courage to live from day to day.
But the “Mormons” were consoled by one thought
—they had left their enemies behind them;  the
mobs that had burned their homes and treated
them so cruelly; and though many of their loved
ones died of fatigue, privation and hardship, yet
they rejoiced that a remnant was spared to enter
the “promised land” where Zion was to be estab-
lished in the tops of the mountains and all nations
flow unto her.
	It often happens that the destiny of a people, or
a nation, is worked out very differently in its de-
velopment and fulfillment from what was expected
or anticipated by the wisest men and philosophers,
who have made predictions concerning that which
would be likely to transpire; but God's plans
never fail and His decrees must come to pass;
therefore He will not forsake Zion nor this people,
notwithstanding the dark clouds that hang about
the horizon to-day. He has not forgotten His
promises and He will yet “make the wrath of man
to praise Him and the remainder He will re-
strain;” and though men who are strangers sit in
places of honor and trust to-day and have control
of public funds, while those who toiled and en-
dured untold hardships to build up the waste
places, and economized for the public weal are
cast out therefrom, and not allowed even a minor-
ity representation to which, according to the de-
cision of a United States Judge of the Court of
the Territory, they are justly entitled, there is
one above who will take cognizance of all these
things, and when the day of reckoning comes He
will remember those who have oppressed Israel
as He did anciently.
	Men boast loudly of what they will do to the
“Mormons," and one need be wise and cautious
to avoid difficulty.  The early settlers in these
valleys who labored to make homes and gardens
and habitations wherein to dwell, with a scanty
supply of food and raiment and sometimes as it
were starvation staring them in the face, living
upon roots and herbs for days and weeks together,
can scarcely view with complacency the present
state of affairs, and see those whom they know to
be their open enemies exult in what is to them, the
wresting away of their sacred rights.
	Sometimes when remembering the sorrows of
the past, the exodus from Nauvoo in mid-winter,
the scenes of suffering at Winter Quarters on the
Missouri river, the graves that are scattered by
the wayside all along the route, one is ready to
exclaim, is it not enough? and yet the sublimity
of the faith of the Latter-day Saint is equal to any
and every emergency, and acknowledging the
hand of the Lord in all things gives the true Saint
that blessed assurance that Zion will triumph over
all her foes, and that it is necessary for those who
would becomes saviors upon Mt. Zion to come up
through great tribulation.
	Fear not Zion! where are all those who fought
against the Saints in the days that are past? What


honor did they gain?  So it will be with those
who seek to oppress the Latter-day Saints at the
present time.  They will not accomplish the plans
they have devised, and they will yet be caught in
the very snare they have laid for the feet of the
innocent and unwary.  God is greater than man
and "it is impossible for men to measure arms with
the Almighty."  The Latter-day Saints know of
a surety that the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
and that is why they do not fear for Zion.


