DAWNING OF A BRIGHTER DAY.

     The Dawning of a Brighter day is near at
hand for Israel, we feel it through the com-
motions in the world, the changing seasons,
etc., show that the coming of our Lord is
near at hand, and that the silver lining of the
dark and lowering clouds which so long have
o'er spread the canopy, are about to burst
forth from the shadow and will fill the hearts 
of the tried, enduring, but faithful sons and
daughters of Zion with joy, who so long have
borne persecutions “revilings, imprisonment,”
the scoffs and jeers of their enemies in every
conceivable form, mostly without a murmur;
but with all confidence in our Creator knowing
that He over rules all things and that not a 
hair of our head is lost or a sparrow falls to
the ground without His notice.
     Who says "Come unto me all ye that are
weary and heavy laden and I will give you
rest," who think you my sisters is in need of
this rest which our Savior holds out to us? is
it the rich and titled of the land? "Oh no,

[column 2]

they never weary" in heaping to themselves
the riches and honors of this world but labor
with untiring energy continually for the things
that perish; no matter who are the losers or
what obstacles stand in the way;—is it the gay
and fashionable whose every wish is gratified,
whose life is a dream of pleasure and enjoy-
ment, "who toil not neither do they spin," do
they weary and want rest? I think not;—but
it is the patient, enduring, humble, God-fear-
ing Latter-day Saints who through all their
revilings, revile not again, who are bearning
the heat and burden of the day, withal re-
joicing yet heavy laden, and looking forward
to that beautiful day of rest, the Millenium
the thousand years of peace when the lamb and
the lion shall lie down together, and the meek
inherit the earth.
     Then should we feel down cast or sorrowful
while such heavenly prospects are almost
within our reach, verily no, it is good to suffer,
if for a righteous cause, it enlarges the heart,
ennobles the mind, purifies the system of the
dross that is within, making us more pliant
and better fitted to be molded to the will of
our Heavenly Father who will eventually, if
we are patient, long suffering and abounding
in good works, bring us back into His pres-
ence to enjoy the society of the just made per-
fect through suffering.
     But the race is not to the swift, or the
battle to the strong, but to those who endure to 
the end, who fight valiantly for the truth, ac-
knowledging God in adversity saying in their
hearts here am I Lord prove what is good in
me, watching for the silver clouds in the dis-
tance, how often did our Savior say He came
not to do His own will," then should we have
any wish in our hearts but to do the will of the
Father, we who are so much more mortal than
He, who suffered all things for the building up
of our Father's kingdom, nay; rather let us 
renew our diligence in all humility for the 
cause of God, who has promised not to place
upon us no more than we are able to bear,
but to fit the back for the burthen."  Our
enemies are only working out the measure of
their days—not usefulness I am sorry to say,
but to their utter discomfiture when their eyes
will be opened and they behold they have been
fighting against the Church of the Lamb
thereby destroying the weak and tender plants
and placing heavier burdens upon the already
weary and heavy laden.
     But the hour of our deliverance is nigh as
with children of Israel who were delivered
from the bondage of their oppressors, so in the
due time of the Lord when He thinks it is 
enough shall we pass out from under the iron
hand of oppression, their reign of power is of
brief duration, in the meantime, let us weed
the garden of our hearts of every unculti-
vated plant, prune and dig around the roots of 
every substance that needs cultivation till our
tabernacles are pure and free from sin,
strengthening ourselves in the love of God
praying always that the Lord may bless us
with wisdom, setting good examples before all
men and partaking not of the sins of this
wicked and adulterous generation.
     Then will the Lord look in tender compas-
sion upon us and administer unto us of His
love, will heal up the broken-hearted, will lift
our heavy burthens, and say "Come unto Me."
Then will the sons and daughters of Zion re-
joice and shout Hallelujah! Hosannah to God
and the Lamb for His mercy endureth forever
then will the silver clouds shine forth in all
their beauty heralding the glorious dawning 
of a brighter day for the pure in heart the
Zion of our God.
					A. N. BOWRING.
Brigham City, Jan. 25, 1890.


A clock tower is to be erected at Leidbury,
as a memorial of Mrs. Browning, the poet.


