OBITUARIES.
Died - at Burrville, Sevier Co., Utah, on Friday, Jan.
17, 1890, Delia Hancock. born at Payson, Nov. 6 1880.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas—It has pleased an all-wise Providence to take
from our midst one of our dear pupils, we, the undersigned,
her teachers, with all her school-mates and friends deeply
mourn the loss of the lovely blossom that has withered
and died in the springtime of her life. Delia has proven
herself an industrious and obedient student, and an attentive
member of the Primary Association. She has now gone to 
the beautiful mansions above to assist in the Primary there
and join in singing anthems of praise to the Great God 
who doeth all things well.
Resolved—That we, as teachers spare no pains, or
energy, in teaching the children to follow in the exemplary
footsteps of the deceased, that they may meet her "on the
other side," in all her glory and splendor.
Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the parents of the deceased; also that a copy be sent to
the Advocate, and one to the Women's Exponent for
publications.
D.P. WHITEHEAD,
LAURA WATERS,
LOUISE KELLER
Committee
In affectionate remembrance of Lena Favorette Grow
beloved daughter of John W. and Catharine Grow. Also
grandaughter of Mr. Henry Grow of Salt Lake City. Born
Sep. 1st 1871. Died Jan. 9th 1890. Being 18 years of
age, whose death was very sudden of typhoid fever. She
was enjoying herself with her friends through the holidays.
Favorette has always been a most dutiful child to her
parents, whose counsel she always sought. When our
Primary was first organized she was always on the lead.
Her little essays and parts that she took, gladdened the
hearts of true Latter-day Saints, When she was 11 or 12
years of age, she made a pretty speech at the 24th of July
in behalf of the Primary before a large audience. So she 
worked onward and upward until she reached the Young
Ladies Association. There she was appreciated for she
was always at the post of duty. Her last testimony to the
Young Ladies was very impressive at the time but we little
thought it was the last. She manifested a spirit of resignation
to the will of the Lord in life or death. Ever ready to 
sacrifice her own feelings to assist her dear mother to raise
her many little brothers and sisters, and begged them in
her last moments not to grieve for her, for she felt she was
passing from death unto life, and called them all around
to shake hands and say good-bye for a short season when
all this sorrow will be over.
And tho' Favorette has left us,
And her "loss we deeply feel"
Still we know God hath bereft us,
And He "can all our sorrows heal."
EMMA BURROWS,
CARRIE RENGSTRUM,
ELLA MCKAY,
Committee.
Died—On Jan. 2, 1890, at Heber, Utah, Anne Giles,
the beloved wife of Wm. M. Giles, and daughter of John
M. and Ann Murdock, aged 35 years.
Her sudden death has cast a gloom over her family and
friends, for she was truly loved by all who knew her, her
amiable disposition and benevolent actions having won for
her the esteem and respect of all. She was the mother of 
eleven children, ten of whom are living; was a useful


member of the Relief Society and a firm and faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake House on the
4th inst., and although it was a very cold and stormy day,
there was quite a large gathering attended the funeral
anxious to pay their respects to one so loved and good. It
was a sorrowful sight to see her ten children left without a
mother and her husband without a helpmate, but we must
all submit.
		Death comes and steals away its prey,
			And we can’t stay its mighty power,
		The summons we must all obey.
			At midnight, or at noonday hour.
