			﻿AN ADDRESS.
[WOMEN OF OUR OWN COUNTRY, AND WOMEN
			IN OTHER LANDS.]
	A few years since to be a prominent
suffragist was to subject one's self to ridicule
and disfavor. The description of strong-
minded women, so graphically but so unkindly
portrayed in the character of Mrs. Jellyby, by
Charles Dickens, was pretty generally accepted.
If a woman inclined to be literary or business-
like she was at once pronounced a perfect Mrs.
Jellyby, not always, in truth, by the men, for 
the conversion of the women has been one of
the hardest tasks for the pioneer suffragist.
When this all-important subject was in its in-
cipiency, Dickens was of all novelists the most
popular; he was the fashion and he exerted his
fine efforts to ridicule and laugh down a ques-
tion which has proved too formidable for even
the wonderful pen of this gifted writer to sub-
due. His volumes of wit and sarcasm over
which the world so raved, and without which
no library is quite complete, are now seldom
taken from their shelves, save to remove the
dust, and Mrs. Jellyby is scarcely thought of,
while the enfranchisement of woman is a ques-
tion of the hour; it is constantly before the
public, and increases in popularity every day.
The daily papers are full of reports of woman's
work, in philanthropy, temperance, education,
the industries, dress reform, literature, medi-
cine, social reform, politics and art. It has
become a national question. The long petitions
which are annually sent to Congress are each
year lengthened by thousands of new names
until now the suffrage women are like a great
army, gaining new strength, new recruits,
brightening and improving their weapons every
hour, and steadily and surely marching on to
victory.
	In a comparatively new country, and under
a liberal republican government where woman
is held in high regard and receives most splen-
did educational advantages, one almost wonders
why any greater freedom is asked, and the
rich society lady says, "I don't wish to bother
with that question, I always thought I had
rights enough," and the poor drudge lady says,
"I haven't time to think of these things, its no
use anyway." But there is a change; some

[column 2]

day perhaps this society lady who had rights
enough is left a widow, and she awakes to the
fact that her fortune has been speculated away
and she must earn a living. She tries first
teaching, and if her education is thorough she
succeeds moderately well, but the work is very
hard and the wages not extra: still she does
not complain for awhile, but she wonders how
Mr. — who lives near and teaches a similar
school to her's manages to live so much better
than she can, and she enquires about his salary
and finds it nearly double her own. Does he
work longer or harder? Does he accomplish
more? Oh, no; but then he is a man, and men
cannot be expected to teach for as little as
women. Oh, then, thinks this little lady, the
men better do all the teaching; so she decides
to clerk, and obtains a situation in a large dry
goods house; she is a very pleasing clerk, and
is kept busy all day long from eight in the
morning until eight at night, handing down
goods and measuring yards of this and yards
of that, suggesting contrasts and assorting
shades. A very nice sales-lady that, I wonder
what she receives? Oh, pretty good pay (for a
woman), sixty dollars a month; so, and the
young man at the next counter, who does just
the same kind of work and comes and goes at
the same hour, does he get sixty dollars also?
Certainly not! he is a man with a young family;
he has one hundred and twenty-five, and little
enough it is at that. And has the sales-lady
no one to support? Yes, she has an invalid
mother, for whom she must always try to do a 
little extra, and two growing boys to feed,
clothe and school; so when the lady sees that
men clerks are so much more deserving, she
decides to learn a trade, and possibly becomes
a printer; being quite apt and bright it is not
long before the principal and most particular
work in the office is given to her. Pay day
arrives, and this bright woman receives less
than the man at the next case, and she knows
she has done more work, and she asks, how is
that? Oh, says the employer, men are paid
sixty cents a thousand, and women are paid
forty. And these are not the only instances
of industry that are conducted on this princi-
ple; in fact, it is so in the large factories and
in almost every branch of work. 
	A few experiences of this kind soon-teaches
the rich society-lady that she really has not all
the rights she wants, and, in trying to better
her own condition, she learns that other women
suffer injustice too; she has awakened to the
call, and she joins the army; and the poor
drudge lady, she has her experiences too, so
many and so sad, that she finally rebels against
the wrongs and injustice done her, she also has
awakened and becomes a recruit.
	The independent, free-thinking woman takes
the leadership, and in reviewing the vast
amount of work she has accomplished, she
certainly deserves the place. In 1848 it was
only some half dozen women who called a
Convention at Seneca Falls, New York, and
demanded equal  educational, industrial, pro-
fessional and political rights for women, now
the different organizations of women can
scarcely be numbered. Of those rights, they
then demanded, not many have been wholly
obtained, unless we except the professional;
but "barriers have been burned away," walls
of prejudice have been torn down, and the
Universities have opened their doors, the plat-
form seeks the lady lecturer; and such posi-
tions as physicians and police matrons, that


[column 1]

﻿once received utmost opposition, are now be-
come a necessity. The marvellous work done
by the Red Cross and other kindred societies,
can only be learned through such great scenes
of distress and suffering as the Johnstown
floods, the Mount Vernon earthquakes and the
Seattle and Spokane fires. Woman’s progress
in this country is steadily, rapidly, and surely
reaching the wonted goal. In the beginning
of this address we termed the Woman’s Suf-
frage question National; let us correct the
statement and say universal, for the call has
been echoed throughout the world, and the
women of all nations have awakened to the
sound. In studying the educational and po-
litical conditions of women of foreign nations,
how they are deprived of knowledge and con-
trolled by superstition, bigotry and papistry,
where the prejudice against woman’s advance-
ment is, as it were, rooted in the soil, the task
seems so hard, the obstacles to overcome so
insurmountable that, one wonders can it ever
be accomplished, can the chains that bind
them ever be sundered? And stopping for an
answer to our inquiry, one almost hears the
breaking of the chains. Two years ago this
winter, in answer to the call of the American
women for a Woman’s National Congress,
across the mighty seas came messengers of
every clime, laden with telling and interesting
reports of woman’s position in their several
countries. There was the honest, intelligent
English woman, whose advancement has been
almost as rapid as the American; the bright
and witty French woman, the noble and
straightforward German, Hollander and Dane,
the Russian, the Icelander, the Italian and the
Hindoo.
	It might be interesting to quote a few para
graphs from some of these reports, for each
lady can better tell her country-woman’s con-
dition, and I will begin with the last men-
tioned—the Hindoo.
	The women of India sent to the American
Council, the cultured and refined Pundita
Ramabai Sarasvati, who, after giving her re-
port to the Council, made a lengthy tour
through this country, and to other nations, to
publish abroad the wrongs and trials of the
child widows of India, and gain, if possible,
some assistance in their behalf. She very
simply and plainly relates the condition of her
country women long ago and tells how, step
by step, they have advanced to a certain de-
gree of education. Still are they little less
than slaves. Let her own words tell the story:
“In olden times in our country, some few
women were allowed education, and stood on
the same footing as the great men: They used
to hold discourse with men on equal terms;
and it is said in some of the sacred books of
the Hindoos, that once on a time there was a
woman who wielded great power over the
assembly of sages, and even held conversa-
tion with one of the greatest philosophers of
the time. After that it was thought best by
our men to keep the women completely in ig-
norance, so that they might have more power
over them; and these men had discovered the
fact that if education was given to women it
would be impossible for them to keep them
under complete subjection, and so in time,
women were completely deprived of any kind
of education, except now and then we had
some princes and learned men, who wanted to
have wives beside them who could read and
write. So a great many women were allowed
just enough education to make verses in praise
of the men, and praise them all the time, but
the common women were, of course, not al-
lowed any education at all.” “But,” she fur-
ther says, “now, through the influence of the
English, the missionaries and some learned
men, the women are permitted to attend a
primary school for nearly two years.” The
school age is from seven to nine. “At nine

[column 2]

they are taken out and betrothed to boys their
own age and that is the end of their edu-
cation.”
	After more and sadder descriptions of the
ignorance and serfdom of Hindoo women, she
cheerfully presents a brighter side by telling
that in 1878, the doors of the Universities
were thrown open to women and then began
the higher education; and now steps are being
taken by women to build a Medical College in
Madras; and in Calcutta and Bombay there
are many women preparing to be physicians.
So much for the Hindoo women; in eleven
years have they risen from utmost ignorance
to the plane ot higher education and are
building colleges for themselves. One won-
ders how the hierarchy of the priests and great
prejudice of the men could have been so over-
thrown; perhaps it was the advent of the Eng
lish among them introducing enlightened man-
ners and customs, and perhaps it was only the
awakening of the women to their unjust and
lowly condition.
	We will now cross to lands which boast the
highest civilization, and see what they have
done towards woman’s emancipation. Extend- 
ing into the classic waters of the Mediter
ranean lies fair Italy, whose cities were once
the Mecca of learning and of art; whose
praises have been sung in every tongue; whose
warriors were the bravest; whose palaces and
cathedrals are the pride and wonder of the
wonder of the world, and yet what a pitiful
wail comes from her fair daughters. Madam
Salazaro, editor of the Woman's Review,
Rome, writes, that Italian women are mere
slaves to men. True, education is compulsory,
and there are many schools; but the education
is not sound, rational, fitting one for life’s
realities, but so superfluous, that it fits them
for nothing at all. The Constitution forbids
woman a public position, and her social posi-
tion is indeed deplorable. In the girls’ schools,
bi-weekly lectures are given by men; no woman
has yet been allowed to address them; though
some attempts have been made to do so.
Taking Madam Salazaro’s figures, such small
wages are paid women for work, that it is
really more genteel to beg. “Under these
circumstances,” she writes, “marriage is the
best solution of the problem, and girls use all
the fascinations of youth, beauty, dress and
coquetry to catch a husband,” Such unions
seldom realize the high ideal of marriage, for
she continues, “Bear in fact that love matches
are rare, and expediency is the usual motive
for entering the married state; the conse-
quences are often life-long misery and unhap-
piness. Under the civil code woman has no
existence apart from her husband. He is her
lord and master in all things, and as she is
supposed to owe all things to him, he has com-
plete control of even her private fortune,
should she have any.” No matter how terribly
ill-used a wife may be she has no redress; but
if she fails to fulfil her wifely duties according
to her husband’s demands he, should he
choose, can have her punished. There is no
divorce law, and no matter how wretched
two lives may be when once the mar-
riage is consummated it binds forever. But
to-day there are, in Italy, a few women physi-
cians and one woman lawyer, though she is not
allowed the liberty to practice her profession.
The Italian Parliament are considering some
measures tending to alleviate the wrongs of
women; and in Rome there is published a
woman’s newspaper, and its columns are full
of pleas and arguments in the Italian woman’s
behalf.
	The world well knows that in past years
Italy was much more glorious than now, and
her civilization has been the grandest, and yet
are her women scarcely so well provided for as
the Hindoo. Madam Salazaro declares the
chief reason to be Religious bigotry. The

[column 3]

Papacy, she says, is fast losing its influence
over men; but by means of the confessional
and pulpit its ministers have hitherto kept a
firm hold on the women of their congrega-
tions. Farther north, in Switzerland, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Scandinavia and
Britain, much more progress has been made.
Universities have opened their doors, and
women are allowed and encouraged in many
public duties, though we shall still feel there
is much to overcome, and a great deal to
accomplish in the way of woman’s emancipa-
tion, in countries where women may frequently
be seen hitched to a cart by the side of a large
dog, hauling produce and wares to the market,
while the great, strong, stubborn husband
walks behind with a whip in his hand crying
his wares for sale; such is really the case in
Switzerland and Germany to-day,
	In noting the advancement of woman in
different lines it seems, that in medicine, has
the greatest progress been made; throughout
the world it is the medical college that have
received her, and people have shown less preju-
dice and disfavor to that profession; though, of
course, charity and philanthropy are practical-
ly tasteful to woman and there is no disputing
her supremacy in that field. We gladly re-
turn with lightened hearts to America and
fervently say, “God bless a country where
woman is no slave, but free, respected and
beloved.”					A. W. O.
	Delivered to the Ogden W. S. A., Feb. 14,
1890.


