HIS VIEWS ON THE PRESENT SITUATION.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 11.—President Wood-
ruff, the head of the Mormon church, today gave
to the Associated Press the only Statement he
has ever made upon the political fight which has
just ended here.  His interview, which is as fol-
lows, can be understood as the feeling of every
Mormon in the Territory:
    "President Woodruff, I would like to get your
views as to the political campaign here and the
questions at issue."
    "Well, sir, I consider this as something more
than a mere question of what men shall compose
the city government and what party they belong
to.  There is a deep-laid scheme to deprive the
Mormon people of all political rights and privi-
leges so that the minority here may obtain control
of the Territory.  They cannot do this by fair
means so they resort to foul.
    "By misrepresentation and taking advantage of
popular prejudice against the Mormons, founded
chiefly in ignorance, they succeeded in securing
the disfranchisement of the older settlers who
made the country, and then of all the women.
This not giving these schemers a majority, they
have sought other means.  The Edmunds-Tucker
act has helped them somewhat, but the test oath
it provides can be taken by a majority at least, as
well as by their opponents.
    "Now they want every Mormon deprived of the
right to vote and hold office, no matter how good
and law-abiding a citizen he may be.  At the
Ogden election a year ago, large numbers of the
names of resident voters were stricken from the
registration lists, hundreds of non-residents were
imported and  the  election  was  carried  by the
Liberals by open fraud, and since then, by ficti-
tious valuation, the assessments of property have
been raised from three to five times the former
amounts of taxes, vice has flourished,  official
salaries  have been raised, public improvements
have not advanced, and the change is deplored by
the best people of both parties.
    "Boasts were made after the Ogden election,
that Salt Lake would be the next point of attack,
and that it would be carried by similar means.
The result has proved the boast not to have been
made in vain.
    "I consider the election has been gained here
by striking from the registration lists hundreds of
legally qualified citizens and by the votes of
hordes of new comers not lawful citizens.
    "I regard the action of the registrars, their sit-
ting as a court to judge of their own acts, and the
whole course pursued, as part of the scheme to
capture the city at all hazards.  I view it with
profound regret as prostitution of law and official

[Column 2]

power that should sadden every lover of fair play
and welfare of his country."
    "What effect will this change have upon the
Church and the People's Party?"
    "Oh, as to that I cannot see that the Church
will in any way be affected as an organization. It
is entirely separate and apart from political mat-
ters; members of the Church belong to the Peo-
ple's Party, and they will naturally feel that they
have been robbed of their rights at the polls.
But I presume that it will not affect their political
views or status.
    "The Church was not in that campaign and the
result will have no bearing upon it at all  that  I
can see."
    "What will be the future policy of the Church?"
    "So far as I know, it will be to preach the Gos-
pel to all the world; instruct its members in their
religious duties, and move forward to its divinely-
ordained destiny as the actual living Church of
Christ."
    "Is there any probability of the Mormon
Church or people removing to Mexico or else-
where?"
    "None that I know of.  I do not see any neces-
sity of such removal.  Individual members may
go where they choose to better their condition,
but there is not, nor has there been any contem-
plation of any such exodus as you ask about."
    "What is the Mormon idea of its rule as the
Kingdom of God?"
    "It is this:  We hold that this Church was set
up and organized by command of the Almighty;
that it has the right to formulate and maintain
rules of church discipline applying to its own
members;  that the extent of its punitive powers
is the excommunication of the transgressor;  that
it has no power to punish anyone by deprivation
of life, liberty or property, or personal injury in
any form; that governments should not regulate
the church, nor the church seek to control the
state; that all men should be politically free and
equal, free to vote as they please and to sustain
what politics they please, so that they do not in-
fringe upon the rights of others.
    "We believe this Church will prepare the way
for the coming of Christ to reign as King, and
that this Church will then develop into the King-
dom of God, which all the Christians pray will
come, that the will of God may be done on earth
as it is in heaven.  We believe in the full and free
agency of man, and that when that kingdom is
established there will be perfect liberty on earth,
civil, political and religious."
    "Then you do not feel gloomy as to the ultimate
result of this election?"
    "No, I believe taxes will be raised, that there
will be such a looseness of restraint imposed upon
immorality, and such a striking contrast formed
under Liberal rule, that order, honor, honesty
and consistent progress of the city under the
People's regime, that as in Ogden, the more
respectable people of all classes will soon desire a
return to former methods.  The plotters against
the majority will probably be emboldened to pur-
sue their plans for the destruction of a republican
government in the Territory,  but I should be
sorry to believe that Congress or the country will
proceed to such unconstitutional and infamous
extremities as those that will be proposed.  In
any event, there is a Power superior to all men,
who will overrule all things that happen for the
good of those who serve Him."
    President Woodruff appeared to be in good
health and not in the least worried over the result
of the election.  He is now in his eighty-third year
and apparently as strong and well preserved as
the ordinary man at fifty.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake will be held in Provo Friday, Feb. 28.


