HEPHZIBAH.
XV.
	The springtime came with all its loveliness,
		And to the village maidens pleasures brought,
	Betrothals—promises of happiness;
		O love, how many changes thou hast wrought!

	The first few days that followed Hepsie’s
baptism were spent very quietly; she felt deep-
ly, but said little. Elder McG— noticing
the quietude of her demeanor, divined the
cause and sought an opportunity for conversa-
tion. Finding her alone, he addressed him-
self to her in such a way that she could not
avoid answering. “Do you comprehend, Hep-
sie, the great importance of the obligations
you have taken upon yourself, in becoming a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, and have you a knowledge of
its doctrines?” The girl opened wide, her
great blue eyes, and looked him in the face in-
nocently, yet with surprise. "Mr. —"
she said, “I know nothing, except that I have
been obedient to the wishes of my mother and
have forsaken all else. My school-friends will
not recognize me now; they are lost to me, as
they are to Lucy Reynolds."
	“But you have accepted something better,
higher and purer than the wisdom and learn-
ing of the world.”
	“How am I to know that the Everlasting
Gospel will make me wiser and better and
purer? Tell me that if you can?”
	“By prayer and humility,” the Elder an-
swered, and he explained, in the most eloquent
manner, doctrines and principles entirely new
to her, but which she grasped quickly. He
related circumstances concerning life at Nau-
voo, and told her much of Joseph the Prophet. 
Like Mary of old, she pondered these things
in her heart. From time to time she heard
the local Elders speak in the meetings of the
branch, and she became better aquainted with
the truths of the Gospel.


[Column 1]
	Meantime other young people though older
than Hepsie, were making rapid strides in ad-
vancement, and a company of Saints were pre-
paring to go to Nauvoo; the spring was open-
ing, and early in April, about forty of those
who had received the Gospel were expecting
to start  Among these were several unmarried
men and maidens, and the fathers and mothers
thought it would advisable to have those who
were old enough, marry—perhaps, being New
Englanders, they preferred their sons and
daughters to marry there, rather than in the
"Great West," of which, in those days, Eastern
people had many peculiar and crude ideas.
So those young folks were paired off, so to
speak. "Matches are made in heaven," it is
said; but of these few, it is doubtful, at least
so thought Lucy Reynolds and her little friend
Hepsie.
	"It's a great pity, said the child one day
to Miss R—, “that you are not going to be
married to young Mr. W—, instead of
that scheming old maid C. A. She has no
education, no sentiment; and I doubt if she is
sincere in religion even. She will never make
him happy, and you could, and would."
	"How is it, Hepsie," said Miss R—, that
you are always interesting yourself in love
affairs? One would think you an oracle, the
way you deliver opinions; but how do you
know Mr. W—- is going to marry C—?
He surely will not."
	"Oh yes, he will; she has talked it over with
mother, and more than that, his brother S—
is going to marry Miss M. L—, and she is
far worse.” “Well, I am surprised," replied
Lucy.
	"Do you suppose love has anything to do
with the affair?"
	"I am sure I can't tell, but it may be better
so; they are marrying for principle, and that
ought to be right."
	"We shall see, Lucy; but then you broke
your engagement for principle, and I suppose
you are ready to marry for principle"
	"Hepsie, you jump at conclusions; I am
not likely to marry at all, and if I do, I hope
to be a truly devoted wife."
	The girls talked on in this strain until in-
terrupted by Mrs. H—, who came to tell
them four or five marriages would be solemn-
ized on Sunday next, and on Tuesday the com-
pany would start for Nauvoo—and she added,
"How I wish I could take my family and go
with them. I long to see Nauvoo, and the
Prophet, and hear his voice." But she knew
that she could not go then, yet the spirit of the
gathering was upon her, and she tried to im-
press Hepsie with it; the child had not par-
taken sufficiently of the spirit of the Gospel
to enjoy and appreciate its blessings and priv-
ileges. At present her mind was occupied
with these “ill-assorted marriages,” as she
termed them, and the lack of true love, she
fancied there was in the unions about to be
formed.
	"I shall be glad when they are all gone to
Nauvoo," she said one day to Lucy. "I know
you will feel much happier, you seem so down-
hearted, now—and if Mr. W— had asked
you to be his wife and taken you with  him,
you would not need mourn for Henry."
	"Hepsie, child, I thought you believed in
love; can one overcome it so soon?"
	"Yes, with a little pride; when a man slights
you because of your belief, let him see you can
look higher; show him you have some spirit, if
you are a 'Mormon.'"
	"We shall see in time, my dear; you see, you
are not in love, and never have been, and yet
think you know more than those who have
had an experience; don't you know, child,
that one must have experience in a matter
before judging it?"
	"You have had a kind of sad experience,
Lucy. I am afraid I should not come out of

[Column 2]
the furnace of trial, so good and noble as you
have."
	Poor Hepsie little dreamed what the future
had in store for her. The weddings were cele-
brated, notwithstanding Hepsie’s serious ob-
jections, which, as the parties knew nothing
of, could not affect them in the least.. On the
Saturday evening Lucy R— called on
Hepsie to inquire if she intended going to
meeting to see the marriage ceremonies per-
formed. "No, indeed, I am not," Hepsie re-
plied excitedly. "Besides I am going away to
school so far that I shall be a perfect stranger
and try to devote all my time to study, and let
love affairs alone."
	"Where are you going. child; to Boston?
It seems to me you ought not to go without
advice from the Elders."
	"Mother has talked it over with Elder Mc-
G—, and he says it will be best, and that
when mother is ready to go to Nauvoo, I shall
be qualified to teach in one of the great insti-
tutions of learning, that will be built there;
for the Prophet Joseph Smith believes in the
most perfect education. I am to take drawing
lessons and vocal music too, at the high school
at G—."
	"I am sorry you are going, Hepsie. I wish
we could all go to Nauvoo now. I have no
other wish at present; but father is away in
Maine, and does not even know that we have
been baptized, and we cannot leave grand-
mother you know. She will not listen to a
"Mormon" Elder, and so the prospect looks
dark for us."
	( On Sunday, according to previous arrange-
ment, the meeting was held at the residence
of one of the local Elders a little distance
out from the village, and the marriages were
solemnized after the close of the services; five
couples were united in the holy bonds of matri-
mony. The two young graduates, fresh from
college, were married to the young ladies of
whom Lucy and Hepsie had spoken as un-
suitable companions for those refined and
learned young men. It was a red-letter day
in the newly-organized branch, and there was
great rejoicing among those assembled on the
auspicious occasion. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifest, and many testimonies of the
truth were added to those already received for
the strengthening of this little band of humble
Latter-day Saints.
	Mrs. Hathaway went home rejoicing in the
glorious truths she had heard, and soon after
her return, opened up a conversation with
Hepsie, who had remained away from the
meeting, contrary to her mother's wishes. She
related full particulars of the marriage cere-
monies,) dwelling especially on the impressive-
ness of the service as compared with marriages
witnessed elsewhere. She was full of faith,
zealous in the interests of the cause she had
recently espoused; and to her, everything per-
taining to the Gospel seemed sublime and
piecious. The prejudices of sectarianism that
are often so strong and hard to overcome, had
no weight with her; she cast them aside as so
many broken chains of superstition that had
held her in bondage, and buckled on the new
and bright armor of the Gospel, without the
least doubt or hesitation.
	("If you had only heard, Hepsie, the power-
ful speaking of those very young girls, in the
gift of tongues and interpretation, it would
have been a convincing testimony to you, and
you could never have forgotten the glow of
their countenances. Indeed it was heavenly;)
but better, almost, than all else that I have
heard, and much as I have enjoyed the teach-
ing and preaching of the Elders from time to
time, I have never heard anything that affected
me so much as what Elder V— said to-
day about baptism for the dead."
	Hepsie was thoroughly aroused now, though
she had listened listlessly before, her attitude

[Column 3]
and expression betrayed the interest she felt
in the subject; every feature of her striking
face beamed with enthusiasm, as she ex-
claimed, "What can we do for the dead? What
do you mean, mother; can we talk to them?"
In a moment her mother saw the drift of her
thoughts and hastened to explain: "You are
familiar with the Bible and have read it
through carefully. Do you not remember in
the Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. where
it says, "Else what shall they do which are
baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at
all? Why then are they baptized for the
dead?" To me, this principle surpasses in
grandeur, any other I have heard, extending
into the ages of the past and giving the living,
power to redeem the dead." Mrs. Hathaway
had spoken eloquently, and Hepsie was gradu-
ally coming to a knowledge of the truth; un-
consciously, almost, her senses were being
quickened; little by little her mind was ex-
panding to grasp the priceless treasures offered
so freely, and which the pride of the world
and her ambition had nearly hidden from her
view.
	On the Tuesday following, as had been ex-
pected, a company of about forty persons,
men, women and children, members of the
Church in the village B—, started on
their journey to Nauvoo; traveling by land in
wagons: they were joined by several others
from adjacent towns, so that the company
numbered about eighty souls. This was early
in the spring of 1842. It was an event of
much significance to those interested, and
caused quite an excitement in the quiet village,
where erstwhile, year after year, things had
gone on so regularly; now there had come a
new departure, and naturally enough it aroused
the indignation of the clergy, and provoked
much animated discussion.


