EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held on Friday, the 14th
of March, at Ephraim, commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A. will convene on the following day. By order
of Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President Relief Society
Sanpete Stake.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held Thursday, the 13th of
March, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
in this city; meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. A punctual attendance from all
parts of the County is especially desirable, and
brethren and sisters interested in this benevolent
institution are cordially invited to attend the
Conference. M. Isabella Horne, President R. S.
Salt Lake Stake; Elizabeth Howard, Secretary.

	On the 8th of February Mrs. Sarah  M. Kimball,
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, left this city as
delegates from Utah, to attend the National-
American W. S. A. Convention, to be held in
Washington on the 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st of
February. The ladies arrived in Washington in
time to attend the banquet given in honor of Miss
Susan B. Anthony's seventieth birthday anniver-
sary at the Riggs House, which is the head-
quarters of the suffrage delegates in Washington
D. C. 

	The steel engraving of Bishop O. F. Whitney,
which by the by is a very good likeness, as well
as finely executed, is now ready, and forms a
frontispiece for his volume of poems, which ren-
ders the book still more valuable. The books
previously issued to purchasers, if returned to the
office of the Juvenile Instructor, can have the
engraving inserted free of cost. This volume of
poems is now for sale at the Juvenile Instructor
and Deseret News offices, and at Parry's  book
store, C. R. Savage's and Margetts Bros. The
work is a valuable addition to any library, and
especially to the libraries of the Latter-day Saints,
as the poetry is strictly of a religious and sublime
character, embracing the most exalted themes,
and awakening the spiritual emotions of the reader.
"Whitney's Poems," as he has entitled the book, is
the first book of poems issued by one of the
Elders of the Church since Elder John Lyon
published "The Harp of Zion." There are to be
sure several brethren who have written for the
News, the Millennial Star and many miscellanaeous
poems for magazines, etc., but we do not recall a
volume published. The author therefore stands
quite alone in this respect, for Brother Lyon has
passed away, though his poems live after him,
and many of them are gems of Scottish poetry as
well as genuinely "Mormon." Bishop Whitney’s
poetical writings stand out clear and distinct from
all otter poems; he is unlike in style and tone
any other poet in the Church. Originality marks
his work and his themes; he is not particularly
dreamy and emotional, but more majestic and
lofty than most young writers. We ardently hope
that the young Bishop will continue writing and
that he may reach the sublimest heights obtainable
in poetry and song.


