
Magazi ne 1963 LESSONS FOR. FEBRUARY : 'y Some Te Christie Lund Coles The bright word GRATITUDE is set Like some rare jewel in the heart; Always its brillrance is both caught And shared. It is: a basic part Of all great souls who go their way Knowing the peace of praise and prayer; Knowing the simple power of thanks, For all his mercy and his care. "For he shall give his angels charge..." Aware of our need before we ask; Trusting us to depend on him In every unpretentious task; Asking our brief acknowledgment, Humility before all his good; With steps that walk in simple faith, And hearts bejeweled with gratitude. The Cover: TM Design by Dick Scopes Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press, U 2 Autumn I have just finished reading "And They Shall Also 'Teach Their Children," by Elder A. Theodore Tuttle, in the July issue of the Magazine. What a wonderful guide for us parents in the upbringing of our families. As a convert and a mother of fast-growing children, I really appreciate Elder Tuttle's remarks and the wonderful Magazine that brings this message to us. —Joye P. Muir Frankton, New Zealand Since joining the Church my husband and I have had more spiritual blessings than it is possible to tell. I have received the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine and have received a great deal of food for thought from the many inspirational articles. I was especially impressed by the article "Part of the Fragrance," by Ann G. Hansen, and the visiting teacher message, by Christine H. Robinson, both in the August issue. These two articles made me re-evaluate myself and recall the great number of good intentions, and the equally great number of forgotten good intentions. I have promised myself to stop whatever else I am doing and when I get a good inten. Tion to carry it through. I have already kept this promise and have gained more myself than the ones I tried to please. —RMrs. Marilyn Domroe Glendale, California Each issue of the Magazine is a treasure —- but when you add all twelve and have them bound together, then you really have a whole volume of beauty and inspiration. The ward Relief Societies in our stake are surely using the many wonderful recipes for their work-meeting luncheons and on other occasions when they want something especially nice to serve. —Ruth H. Millet President Rigby Stake Relief Society Rigby, Idaho 802 Yy lif I am a bride of but a few months, and one of our wedding gifts was a years subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy and read many times each issue. Every page gives me wonderful ideas on how to make my marriage an eternal success. —RMrs. Ellen D. Seedall Idaho Falls, Idaho I like the changes made recently in t Magazine. The introduction of co makes it more attractive, and also I |] the smaller size. It fits into my purse b ter. I am amazed and very proud of talent of so many of our women. —Myrene R. Brewer Ogden, Utah I wish to thank you very much behalf of my wife for sending The Reh Society Magazine, which we receive thanks. —Wnm. T. Moore Richmond B. C. Canada As usual, I have greatly enjoyed t Magazine during my stay in Amen Samoa. Recently, when it was ne for me to go to the hospital in Pago P for treatment, I took some Magazi with me. They were the means of becoming acquainted with the fine su visor of nursing, an Anglican Catholi from London, England. She was attract by the beautiful cover, and after she h glanced through the Magazine, she said, "That is the loveliest Magazine I have ever read."" Then, after further reading, she said, "No wonder your young people grow up to be so fine." Since then sh has attended our Church services, and have had many fine gospel conversation —Arlene L. Anderson Mapusaga American Samoa


NOVEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents
Special Features 804 In Memoriam — President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle 807 The Divinity Within Relief Society Belle S. Spafford 813 "He Shall Prepare a Way" Marianne C. Sharp 815 Relief Society to Save Souls Louise W. Madsen 817 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 824 Relief Society Supports the Priesthood Home Teaching Program 828 What Mormonism Means to Me _ Lorinda Tortice Fiction 840 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 5 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 802 From Near and Far 826 Editorial: We Thank Thee Marianne C. Sharp 828 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 846 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 830 Saturday Chores Dora Black 831 Stretching the Food Budget Part III — Peanut Butter Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris 833 Christmas Tot Thoughts Shirley Thulin 839 Crochet Designs — Various and Beautiful Lessons for February 853 Theology — The Bishopric; Parenthood Roy W. Doxey 858 Visiting Teacher Message — "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray..." Christine H. Robinson 860 Work Meeting — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home Virginia F. Cutler 862 Literature — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic Briant S. Jacobs 868 Social Science — Quorum Relationships to Wards and Stakes Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 801 Gratitude — Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles A Missionary Says "Goodbye," by Margory E. Green, 812; Song for November, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 825; Churning Day, by Maude Rubin, 829; Tuning In, by Ida Elaine James, 878; Indian Summer, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 878; At Thanksgiving, by Mildred B. Hall, 878. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts 

At the April 1947 Church conference President Moyle was sustained as an apostle of the Lord. This high calling followed ten years of service as president of Cottonwood Stake and visiting the stakes of the Church for eleven years as a member of the General Church Welfare Committee over which he had presided as chairman since 1939. In his April 1947 conference address, President Moyle made significant forecasts of what he hoped to accomplish in his dedication to the work of the Lord. Now, sixteen years later, one can judge of the selflessness with which he abided by his statements of purpose and belief: so far as my Heavenly Father will give me the power to act I shall do so, and all that I have and am belongs to my Heavenly Father. To me that which the Presidency of this Church have said and say now, is as much the law and the gospel as anything that has ever been said or written before for our guidance. It shall be my hope and my desire that... I may be an honor and a credit to my family and my people and be able to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ and to bear this testimony throughout the world. On the death of President Stephen L Richards, in 1959, President Moyle was called as Second Counselor in the First Presidency, and, in 1961, on the death of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Moyle was named First Counselor. The General Presidency of Relief Society has been closely associated with President Moyle over the years through the Church Welfare Program. For a number of years it was their privilege to meet twice weekly with the Welfare Committee over which he served as chairman. President Moyle has been a good friend and wise advisor to Relief Society and has delivered instructional and inspirational addresses to the membership gathered from all over the world at Relief Society Annual General Conferences. He had a great and expansive soul. His desire and practice were to help his brother and, even though his health has not been robust, he never spared himself in filling assignments or meeting requests that came to him in great number to serve his Church and fellow men. He died as he lived doing the work of the Master. Truly it would seem he never tasted death and it was sweet to him. for the Saints. President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, The Documentary History of the Church under date of January 6, 1842, records the rejoicing of the Prophet Joseph Smith over this penod of time in the history of the Church as follows: "The new year has been ushered in and continued thus far under the most favorable auspices, and the Saints seem to be influenced by a kind and indulgent Providence in their dispositions and [blessed with] means to rear the Temple of the Most High God, anxiously looking forth to the completion thereof as an event of the greatest importance to the Church and the world, making the Saints in Zion to rejoice.... Truly this is a day long to be remembered by the Saints of the last days a day in which all things are concurring to bring about the completion of the fullness of the Gospel, a fullness of the dispensation of dispensations, even the fullness of times" (DHC IV, page 492). Indeed, this proved to be an eventful period in the history of the Church — a period of rejoicing Events transpired _ which made these days long to be 1963] remembered days. 'The saints had found at least a temporary resting place in Nauvoo. The Lord had revealed his mind and will, not only for his children living upon the earth, but he had also given to the Prophet the great revelation regarding salvation for the dead. The cornerstone of the temple had been set and the walls were rising. Orson Hyde, one of the apostles of the Lord, had gone forth by assignment of the Prophet to dedicate the Holy Land for the return of the Jews — an event referred to by the Prophet as "involving the interest and fate of the Gentile nations throughout the world" (DHC IV, page 112). In January 1842, after reading excerpts from a letter written by Elder Hyde from Trieste, the Prophet declared, "Elder Hyde has, by the grace of God, been the first proclaimer of the fullness of the Gospel both on the Continent of Europe, and in far-off Asia, among the nations of the East He has reared as it were the ensign of the Latterday glory..." (Ibid, page 49s). It was early in the month of March 1842, in response to a re- 807 NOVEMBER 1963 quest from Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of The Chicago Democrat, that the Prophet prepared his concise and convincing sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints, together with a summary of the principles taught by the Church — now known as the "Articles of Faith," and referred to in the Documentary History of the Church as "one of the choicest documents in our Church literature." It was in March 1842, that the Prophet commenced publication in The Times and Seasons of his translation of "The Book of Abraham," from Egyptian papyrus, which, in its importance as a record of ancient saints, brought to light in this dispensation, has been said to stand second only to The Book of Mormon. 'Those were days when the missionary program was being expanded and zealously forwarded, the fruits of which were showing in the large number of immigrants coming into Nauvoo. Among the events of great signi ficance to the sisters of the Church was the founding of "The Female Relief Society" on March 17, 1842. It seems that this was a propitious time for the Lord to give to his daughters, through his Prophet, an organization whereby they might more fully perfect themselves and more effectively serve the Church and its people. The sisters had evidenced a readiness for this blessing. They had studied the scriptures. They had listened to their Prophet and been obedient to his teachings. They had helped in the work of the Church, particularly had they endeavored to do the women's part toward the erection of the temple. So eager were they more fully to do their part that they sought, at the hands of the Prophet, approval for an organization for which Sister Eliza R. Snow had drawn up a constitution and by-laws. Sister Sarah M. Kimball, relating the circumstances that led to the organization of Relief Society, stated that the sisters wished to form a "Ladies Society" in order that they might combine their means and efforts to assist those who were working on the Nauvoo Temple. The Prophet replied:. This is not what you want. Tell the Sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priest: hood after a pattern of the Priesthood (Centenary of Relief Society, page 14). We may be sure that it was with eagerness and rejoicing that the sisters — eighteen in number — met at the appointed hour and place on Thursday, March 17, 1842. With grateful hearts they heard their beloved and revered Prophet utter these words long to be remembered by the sisters of the Church: "I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors according to parliamentary usages" (Relief Society Magazine, March 1942, page 151). Elder John Taylor, who with Ek der Willard Richards accompanied the Prophet on this momentous 0C casion, addressed the sisters, saying that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of Heaven" (Relief Society Magazine, March 1942, page 151). Is not the law of Heaven divine law? Then are we not entitled to say that Relief Society was organized according to divine law? The First Presidency, at the time of the centennial of Relief Society, reminded us: We ask our Sisters of the Relief Society never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet who was divinely called by a visitation of the Father and Son, in person, to open up this, the Last Dispensation, the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. No other women's organization in all the earth has had such a birth (Centenary of Relief Society, page 7). Sister Sarah M. Kimball, in the Relief Society records, credits the Prophet with saying that the Church was never fully organized until the women were thus organized. Sister Eliza R. Snow, in a speech recorded in the Woman's Exponent, Volume 9, page 167, declared: A society of this kind has always existed whenever the Priesthood has been upon the earth, and the allusion of the elder to the "elect lady'' as recorded in the New 'Testament, means one who _presided over the society in his day. Without doubt, Sister Snow was referring to the Second Epistle of John wherein the elder speaks unto "the elect lady and her children" of whom he says, "I love in the truth." He further says, "I rejoice greatly that I found thy children walking in truth." Then he urges THE DIVINITY WITHIN RELIEF SOCIETY them to continue walking after the commandments of the Lord. It is not difficult to imagine the message given in this scripture as being given by one of the leading elders of this day to the Relief Society sisters. It is noteworthy that the term "elect lady" was used in the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Emma Smith, the first President of the Relief Society in this dispensation. This revelation, recorded in Section 25 of the Doctrine and Covenants, declares: "Thou art an elect lady whom I have called" (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25, Verse 3). Documentary History of the Church records the Prophet as saying: I gave much instruction and read in the New Testament and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, etc., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society (DHC IV, pp. 552-553). The apostle Paul, explaining the organization of the Church to the Corinthian saints, mentions the members which God had set in the Church. He explains that there are "many members, yet one body," and asserts, "And God hath set some in the church; first, apostles; secondarily, prophets; thirdly, teachers; after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues" (I Corinthians, 12:20, 28). Paul spoke to the Ephesian saints also about the offices, mentioning apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and _ teachers. NOVEMBER 1963 Elder Spencer W. Kimball, in an article published in The Relief Society Magazine, poses these questions with regard to Paul's words to the Corinthians: "What did the apostle Paul mean by helps and governments? Could the governments be the Priesthood leaders who govern and direct all the work in the Church, and could the "helps" mean the helping organizations, such as Relief Society?" Whether there was a formal organization such as that of our present Relief Society in the early Church remains for the prophets to tell us; but it is not difficult to believe that the sisters were called to do such work as is now assigned to Relief Society. Relief Society, as founded by the Prophet, is now on the way to its second century of life and service. During the 121 years of its existence, tremendous changes have taken place in the world and among its people. Few changes, perhaps, have been greater than the change in the status of woman and _ her readiness to speak and act through organized groups. When Relief Society was founded, only a few courageous women dared to speak in public, and fewer still braved the formation of an organization. In contrast to these conditions, I recently attended a meeting in Washington D. C. Where I was one among 300 presidents representing women's organizations of this Nation, none of which had a membership of less than 100,000. These 300 presidents represented a total of fifty million organized women in the United States. They had been invited to meet with high Govern- 810 ment officials to offer their views on one of the Nation's difficult issues. It is a marvel that in the face of all this change and growth that the basic organization structure of Relief Society, its governing regulations and original purposes, as set by the Prophet Joseph Smith, have remained constant, and the Society, under the pattern established 121 years ago, continues to function effectively in each succeeding era of time. This alone attests that Relief Society was founded according to the laws of heaven and not of man. Relief Society was continually under the watchcare of the Prophet during the days of Nauvoo, receiving his counsel and instruction, just as it has been under the watchcare of God's chosen prophets who have succeeded him. In his instructions to the sisters, the Prophet made clear that they were organized under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood. He told them, "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this dispensation." He taught the sisters, "If any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution, let them be appointed and set apart." (You note he did not say elected by the membership.) He made membership in the Society a privilege, yet he opened its doors to all women "free from censure," who were to be received by vote, according to his directive. Insofar as a constitution and by- laws were concerned, which the sisters had submitted to him in the beginning, he said "Let this presidency serve as a Constitution — all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such.... The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon — your Constitution and law" (Centenary of Relief Society, page 15). Thus Relief Society was regulated in the beginning; thus it is regulated today. The Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women of this dispensation. His impressive words are treasured words: "I now turn the key in your behalf and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time.... This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." Just as Relief Society was divinely founded and regulated by divine inspiration according to the laws of heaven, so it has a divinely appointed mission. Listed simply I would say its mission is: 1. To save souls. 2. To strengthen testimonies of the divinity of the restored gospel. 3. To succor the distressed. 4. To develop the talents and abilities of the sisters. 5. Yo strengthen home and family life. 6. To serve as a handmaid to the Priesthood in building the kingdom of our Heavenly Father on earth. President David O. McKay has made reference to the mission of Relief Society in these impressive words: By divine decree, the women in the Church are assigned the noble mission of THE DIVINITY WITHIN RELIEF SOCIETY being exemplars and leaders to mankind in the two most worthwhile accomplishments in mortal life; first, the development of character. That is done in the home, principally. Second, willingness and ability to render helpful service — that through the organized Relief Society. These two accomplishments, by the way, are all that we shall take with us when, at the end of our earthly career, we pass through the portals of Death into the realm of the Eternal — Character and Service (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, page 807). Certainly, Relief Society, with a knowledge of God's divine law of free agency, with a knowledge of the sacredness of the individual and God's plan of life and salvation for his children as revealed in these latter days through his Prophet, has a grave responsibility to share this knowledge with women the world over, and to shed its influence in the promotion of freedom and the way of life taught by the Master. There is no other organization of women in the world upon whom this responsibility rests so heavily. There is no other group to whom organized women of the world should be able to look with greater assurance for strong, wise, and righteous leadership. We must work through proper channels, it is true, and as authorized by our Priesthood authorities, but work we must and give to the women of the world the truths we have been given by divine revelation. Accepting its divine mission, unscathed by time or change, Relief Society must stand a bulwark against the forces of evil striving to engulf women. It must be as a beacon light and a guiding star to women of many nations. I would like to conclude by read- 811 NOVEMBER 1963 ing a statement by Elizabeth Ann Whitney, the wife of Bishop Newel K. Whitney and counselor to Emma Smith in the Relief Society. This statement appeared in the Woman's Exponent, November 15, 1878 — eighty-five years ago. Speaking of her residence in Nauvoo, Sister Whitney wrote: We afterward moved upstairs over the brick store as it was designated. It was during our residence in the brick store, March 17, 1842, that the Relief Society was organized and I was chosen as a counselor to the president of this Society. In this work I took the greatest interest for I realized in some degree, at least, its importance and the need for such an organization.. - - _ The Relief Society then was small compared to its numbers now, but the Prophet foretold great things concerning the future of this organization, many of which I have lived to see fulfilled, but there are many things which remain yet to be fulfilled in the future of which he prophesied that are great and glorious, and |! Rejoice in the contemplation of these things daily feeling that the promises are sure to be verified in the future as they have in the past. I trust that the sisters who are now laboring and who will in the future labor in the interest of the Relief Societies in Zion will realize the importance attached to the work and comprehend that upon them a great responsibility rests. President Joseph Smith had great faith in the sisters' labors and ever sought to encourage them in the performance of the duties which pertained to the Society. I, too, have faith in the sisters of Relief Society. I, too, feel assured that great and glorious things lie yet ahead for this organization. Relief Society belongs to the past; it be longs to the present; it belongs to the future. Its work is the Lord's work for his daughters. I, too, trust, as did Sister Whitney, that the sisters who are now laboring and who 'the future will labor in the interest of this Society, will realize the importance attached to the work and comprehend that upon them a great responsibility rests. That this conviction, borne of an abiding testimony of the divinity within this Society, will ever abide with the sisters of the Church, I sincerely pray. A Missionary Says "Goodbye" Margory E. Green A time has come f Goodbye to Engla Two years | have n or me to say d, green and fair; known her beauty, And have loved her people there. So, | will say farewell for now, But — | will be back some day — It may be in the autumn Or the lovely month of May. Meantime, | am so thankful For the blessings from above, And | shall think of England As the home | truly love. 812 "He Shall Prepare a Way'"' As I visited stake quarterly conference this past year I was very surprised with one response which came to me in the stakes. In one of the Relief Society meetings we would discuss qualifications for leadership and list them on the blackboard as suggested by those present. Following this listing, each Relief Society sister, in turn, would name the quality which she felt she needed the most. Except in one stake the answers were "self-confdence." I realized again how little we know of the feelings of others. These sisters were all stake leaders and were doing outstanding work in forwarding Relief Society within their stakes. Yet they felt the need of more self-confidence. Recently a letter came to the General Board from a sister who had been made a ward Relief Society president. She had looked at the position, in the past, as a rather routine matter. Now the position had come to her. Her self-confidence failed her and she wrote to a friend, "I am overwhelmed by the call and my personal inadequacies. I don't know how I can fill the office." As I have thought about it, I have tried to visualize just what we need to give us more self-confidence in our Relief Society callings. Certainly, self-confidence is a_necessary attribute of a leader, for who will follow someone devoid of selfconfidence? How can we inspire Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] confidence and the ability to accomplish in another, if we lack it ourselves? What can we do to gain self-confidence? How can we go about acquiring the necessary learning to fill with confidence any calling that may come? You will recall the advice of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants which we are now studying in Relief Society, where we are commanded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." 'These words seem to me to hold the key to gaining self-confidence. Where better could we go to study than to the words of the Lord as set forth in his scriptures, wherein the Lord lays bare the secret thoughts and acts of men, and his dealings with man down through the ages. Is there learning to be gained on this subject of self-confidence from studying the scriptures? I have never forgotten my almost disbelief the first time I read an example of the lack of self-confdence in the Old Testament. Moses had always stood to me as the mighty leader of Israel, as the performer of great miracles before Pharaoh, of parting the Red Sea, and leading the children of Israel for forty years in the wilderness. Imagine my surprise, then, when I read Moses' reply to the Lord when the Lord first called him: "Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt," and Moses' 813 NOVEMBER 1963 reply: "Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh?" Then the Lord in his mercy and _ understanding gave explicit directions. Again Moses said "... But, behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice." 'Then the Lord worked the miracles of the rod for Moses, and the leprosy of Moses' hand, and instructed him in a third sign he could give. Still Moses answered, "O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue." And the Lord answered "... Who hath made man's mouth?" Yet again Moses plead "O my Lord send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send." And we learn that the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses and he gave him Aaron his brother for his spokesman. Could any sister show less self-confidence than did Moses when he _ was called? And yet he became the mighty leader. As we strive for self-confidence we are reminded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." We recall the self-confidence of a young boy who did not offer objections when the Lord told him to perform a hard task, but who showed forth faith to fulfill his assignment by declaring "T will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." Nephi had received learning by study 814 of the scriptures, for after he made this statement he encouraged his brothers to return to Jerusalem by saying "... Let us be strong like unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and thither... Wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the Lord is able to deliver Ms: As we acquire learning by study and also by faith, how can we doubt but that the Lord will be with each of his daughters in the calling that comes to her. Why need we not doubt?) Why can we be filled with self-confidence? Because we are called by the Priesthood of God. As we study our social science lessons we realize more truly the power of the Priesthood, and what such a call means to us. Having accepted a call to a position, then we must study and learn the requirements of that position, for we must magnify our calling. But then in faith, and following the examples that have been set for us, we must rely on the Lord and, if our faith is strong enough, we will gain self-confidence with humility. 'Then we can take confdence in the words spoken of Samuel, "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground." It is my testimony that if we rely on the Lord and seek learning even by study and also by faith, the Lord will let none of our words fall to the ground, and we will grow in selfconfidence and serve the Lord in trust and joy. May this be our experience as Relief Society members, I pray. Relief | Society to Save Souls 'While on assignment to the quarterly conferences of the stakes in England this spring, we visited Sister Vera Hewitt, former president of the Sunderland Stake Relief Society in her home in Whitley Bay on the North Sea. A lighthouse on the bay caught our interest — especially since living as we do in the tops of the mountains we had never been close to one before — and we walked out onto the rocky promontory and climbed the 150 steps to the top to see the huge light and to survey the world about us from that height. The lighthouse keeper explained that this was one of the few lights still powered by weights on the grandfather clock principle, not yet having been electrified. We were amazed by the _ exquisite cleanliness of the building. Not one drop of oil or grease from the massive machinery was in evidence. Not one speck of dust marred the surface of the huge prism. All was in constant readiness to go into instant action. Later in the evening, when we saw that great light piercing the darkness, the symbolism of the lighthouse and the light and Relief Society caught my imagination. I thought of Relief Society in its purity as a divinely organized Society standing tall as a great lighthouse tower sending out its glowing light and, like the lighthouse, anchored firmly to the rock Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] so that even the pounding sea could not dislodge it. I thought of the bright light as the light of the gospel and the light of education illuminating the darkness. I thought of its strong searching beam making a path of light from earth to sky like the straight and narrow path to eternal life. I thought of it as a welcome sight to ships navigating the turbulent waters of the North Sea like the welcome which comes when truth illumines the mind. I thought of the light as a beckoning ray with the message, "Come, here is safety," and the mariner, recognizing the light and the lighthouse, knowing he is on the right course. I compared the lighthouse keeper upon whose devotion to duty so much depends to officers in Relief Society, keepers of the _ light, through whom so many sisters in the world are enlightened. I was reminded of the creed of a lighthouse keeper "Mind the Light" — no matter what befalls, mind the light. Then the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith came to my mind, "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." This is the divine commission to Relief Society from our Heavenly Father through his inspired Prophet.. "How precious are the souls of men!" the Prophet said to the sis- 815 NOVEMBER 1963 ters assembled, on April 28, 1843. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God," the Lord said in a revelation to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. This great emphasis on the worth of each individual soul is one of the sublime tenets of the gospel. Our Father in heaven does not look upon his children as "'the masses," but as individuals for each of whose salvation his Only Begotten Son gave himself. To fulfill the divine commission to save souls we must, as President McKay has said, "aid one another in the productive life, a life that tends toward the salvation of the human being. By that salvation I do not mean just a place in the hereafter where all our cares and worries may cease, but a salvation that applies to the indiidual here and now." We are encouraged to labor in the spirit of Christ to make our home conditions and environment better and happier. "To permeate each home with the spirit of contentment and peace; to have members of such homes devote the resources of body and mind to the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God," this, too, is salvation in this life. Mutual service is expected and Relief Society, known through the years for service, gives one an opportunity to learn and serve. "The gospel is the power of God unto salvation." Relief Society has been assigned to instruct its members, enabling them constantly to exercise their knowledge of the saving of the gospel. It is the ultimate aim of Relief Society to teach the gospel and to build firm testimonies in the minds and hearts of the sisters so that their lives, their children's lives, and their homes will reflect their 816 knowledge of the laws of God. It is a basic doctrine of the Church that each individual must work out his own salvation. We do not believe that a mere statement of belief in Jesus Christ is all that is essential. One's whole life should be spent in increasing his soul growth by continuous work in accordance with his faith. But the Lord does not expect us to work out our own salvation alone. He will help us, the scriptures will help us, our families and friends will help us, the Authorities of the Church and our activities in the Church will help us. No one goes his way alone. The responsibility is upon each of us, however, to be righteous, faithful, and to do our duty by our fellow men. We are admonished to proclaim the principles of the gospel by our words and by our actions. "Teach one another," we are told, and this the sisters do admirably in Relief Society. "Live the gospel," we hear, and this also Relief Society inspires us to do. The divine commission to Relief Society to save souls is a commission to Relief Society as an organization composed of almost a quarter of a million sisters, and to each member herself. Let us take upon ourselves this divine commission, my dear sisters, and labor without ceasing in love and goodness to do the will of our Father. The Lord said to Lehi, "Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee." If we righteously assume our true assignment the Lord may have cause to say unto us "Blessed art thou." and Instructions | It is with pleasure that I bring to you a report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the 1962 annual statistical and narrative report, together with a few suggestions and instructions related to the conduct of the work of Relief Society. The year 1962 was marked by growth and expansion, with emphasis being placed on membership building and development of leadership. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1962, the Society had a total of 430 stake and mission organizations, twenty-five more than during the previous year, and a total of 5,288 ward and branch Societies, an increase of 366. These figures are heartening in that they evidence growth in number of members, expanded influence for the Society, and increased opportunity for leadership positions among the sisters. During 1962 there were seventyeight reorganizations in the stakes and twenty-one in the missions. Membership There was a membership increase during 1962 of 16,991, makPresident Belle S. Spaftord [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] ing a total membership of 248,166 (almost one quarter million members). During the last five years, Relief Society has had an annual average increase of 12,946. We are grateful to Relief Society presidents for their resourcefulness and diligence in enlisting new members from among both Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint women. Reports indicate that personal contact and continuing personal interest in a woman is the single most effective means of enlisting her as a member. Inter-faith socials, however, which have been held extensively, usually on a stake basis, have been extremely helpful in focusing the attention of nonmember women upon the Society, of arousing their interest in it, and of opening doors for follow-up personal contact. These socials have set new standards of beauty, meaning, and enjoyment for Relief Society socials. (As leaders, we must not lose sight of the fact that dignified, delightful, purposeful social activities are an integral part of the program of Relief Society.) We commend you for the excellence of these programs. 817 NOVEMBER 1963 Attendance In a day when women engage themselves in many activities and when a high percentage of them are employed, it is encouraging that average attendance at regular meetings of the Society increased by 4.9°>. There was in attendance at each of the weekly meetings an average of 93,224 women, 4,360 more than a year ago. It is the opinion of the General Board that the attendance increase was _ influenced by the increased number of two-session ward Relief Societies. You will recall that these were discussed in the Official Instructions last year which were published in The Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, page 807. Copies of the detailed instructions for conducting and recording the activities of two-session Relief Societies are available at the General Board office upon request of stake Relief Society presidents, for distribution to ward Relief Societies desiring to enter into such an arrangement with the approval of their respective bishops. Missions Relief Societies in the missions seem to be taking on new vitality; and tremendous effort is being made by mission Relief Society presidents, fully supported by mission presidents, to bring the branch organizations up to high standards of performance in harmony with Handbook regulations. Numerous types of special projects have been conducted to build membership and to teach the purposes, programs, and approved procedures for Relief Society activities. Leadership meetings and mission publications are effective tools in helping with this. Mission presidents are taking a new look at the visiting teaching program. They see in it, and I quote, "a valuable niche for service and the development of convert members." Compassionate Services Compassionate services show a _ marked increase for 1962 over 1961. Figures are as follows: Visits to the sick and homebound Days care of the sick Funerals at which Relief Society assisted Hours of other compassionate service Thus, during 1962, Relief Society devotedly fulfilled one of its major assignments. Church Welfare Participation There were 97,515 visits made to families by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of bishops, an increase over 1961 of 3,890 visits. A larger number of 818 Number Increase 365,822 8,488 + 30,732 521+ 9,251 405+ 498,290 97,150 + Relief Society members than ever before in our history assisted on welfare projects — 63,389, an increase of approximately 9,000 over 1961. The sisters of the Church contributed approximately 900,000 hours on the Church welfare projects. Sisters receiving assistance seemed to sense more than ever before their responsibility to assist on these projects, actually contributing over 218,000 hours, or approximately 6,000 hours more than during the previous year. Among these sisters, there were more than 4,000 who sewed for themselves, being taught to do so in large measure through Relief Society. The General Board suggests the advisability of ward Relief Society presidents keeping familiar with welfare produced foodstuffs available for distribution to families through the bishops' storehouses. In planning work meeting programs, these appropriately might be kept in mind and demonstrations be given on the preparation and use of these foods in the family diet. In planning such programs we refer you to the series of articles currently being published in The Relief Society Magazine under the title, "Stretching the Food Budget." Work Meeting Homemaking arts and_ skills taught at the work meetings are basic to a well-rounded Relief Society program. Homemaking is close to the hearts of women, and attractive, orderly, thrifty homemaking practices are of vital] importance to the well-being of the family. During 1962 there were 611,591 sewed articles produced in the work meeting, and 275,265 nonsewed articles — a total of 886,856 sewed and non-sewed articles — an increase of 125,842. Education Courses The courses of study, including the work meeting discussions, appear to have been well received. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS There is excellent preparation on the part of both stake and ward class leaders. More than 22,000 sisters are engaged in teaching, either in a stake or ward capacity. Courses of study are carefully planned to meet the needs of the sisters and to accomplish the purposes of the educational program. It would seem that a class leader would feel a deep sense of responsibility to adhere to the lessons as outlined. As in all matters pertaining to Relief Society, it is the responsibility of the president to see that only the reeommended and approved lessons are presented. Deviations from this, while rare, are occasionally reported. For this reason we call this matter to your attention. Nursery The increasing number of mothers enrolling in Relief Society who have young children is making it more and more mandatory upon ward Relief Societies to conduct nurseries. Instructions as to the nature of the nursery program were given at the recent Relief Society meeting held in conjunction with the stake quarterly conferences. We suggest that presidents review these carefully. It is anticipated that further instructions will be given at Relief Society meetings held in connection with the 1964 quarterly conferences. It is the recommendation of the General Board that the nursery be assigned to the education counselor as one of her special divisions of responsibility. The nursery leader should be carefully selected in the light of her great responsibilities. She is not a baby sitter as we have come 819 NOVEMBER 1963 to regard this service. Rather, she is a leader of a division of the work designed to interest and develop children while their mothers attend Relief Society meeting. Recognition of the importance of this special asignment, appropriately, would lead to a full consideration by the presidency of the requirements made of the nursery leader, and any necessary assistants would be appointed. Appreciation for the service and that of those who assist her would frequently be expressed whether these sisters be paid or volunteer workers. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching continues as one of the very strong and valuable programs of the Society. Not only is it accomplishing the original purpose for which it was _ established, namely, "to seek after objects of charity," but it is an effective means of exercising watchcare over the sisters in their homes. In addition, it is proving an asset to the Society in its membership-building and fellowshipping programs as well as affording opportunity for new members, particularly new converts and reactivated members, to be participating members of the Society in a very important aspect of the work. During 1962, there were 4,133,- 868 visits made to the homes by 107,252 visiting teachers. This was an increase over the previous year of 190,272 visits and an increase of 7,193 visiting teachers. There was an average of 9.35 visits made to each family in the stakes during the year. Maximum visiting would be twelve visits per family. The faithfulness and devotion of the sisters to this program and the quality of work done by them merits highest commendation. 820 Magazine Magazine subscriptions totaled 201,570 at the end of 1962, an increase of 18,334 subscriptions. This is the largest annual increase in the history of the Society. The General Board is proud of the wonderful work done by Magazine representatives. Singing Mothers Choruses Singing. Mothers Choruses increased by 125 during 1962, making a total of 2,724 choruses at the close of the year. We feel, however, sisters, that there should be more choruses than this among our more than 5,000 local Relief Societies. We were gratified by the excellence of the choruses which sang at the quarterly conferences during the first and second quarters of this year. We call your attention to the new book, Music Leadership in Relief Society, prepared by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. This book offers instruction by Sister Madsen resulting from a lifetime of training and experience in the field of music. The book is available at the General Board headquarters, price, ninety cents per copy. Any woman interested in music will find the book valuable to her. Indian Relief Society Organizations Sisters, within many of your stakes there are Indian Relief Society organizations. The circumstances of the sisters enrolled in these organizations vary, and, correspondingly, their needs differ, both as they relate to guidance and training in their individual and family lives, and also as they relate to the conduct of their respective Relief Society organizations. We must recognize that, in some instances, it is extremely difficult for the sisters to maintain their organizations following all of the Handbook recommendations. Some may be able barely to approximate this, while others may be able to do so in large measure, while still others being able to do so almost entirely. The same is true with regard to the programs of the Society. In some instances, for example, the homemaking program might need great modification over that conducted in our long established Societies, in order that the special needs of the Indian sisters, due to their culture, traditions, practices, and facilities, might be adequately met. The same would be true of the courses of study. In some instances, entirely different courses from those outlined for the Society as a whole might need to be used. We have a responsibility to help these sisters at the point of their needs with patience, intelligence, and understanding. I am sure you recognize that most modifications and adjustments in organization procedures and programs can best be made by the stakes wherein Jndian Relief Societies exist because here there is the great knowledge and understanding of the particular circumstances. Often, the greatest degree of help cannot be given through the stake board functioning according to regular procedures. We, _ therefore, suggest that in stakes having Indian Relief Societies with special needs, a sister with aptitude in working with the Indians be appointed, with the approval of the stake president, to work under the direction of the stake Relief Society president in promoting the best interests of the Indian sisters and in helping their Relief Society organizations to function as effectively as possible in the light of existing conREPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS ditions. Such an appointee would be regarded as "'a sister with a speclal assignment."" She would not be a stake board member. Authorization may be given her to use special courses of study. Where this is advisable the General Board is prepared to make suggestions, at the request of the stake Relief Society president, for suitable subject matter, and shortly will have available for use some lessons which may be simplified or amplified to meet the special needs of the Lamanite sisters. Authorization may also be given for the conducting of a department in connection with the regular leadership meeting for the Indian officers and class leaders. The sister appointed to work with the Indian sisters would keep close to them by frequent visits to their meetings. She would exercise loving watchcare over them. We will appreciate being notified of the name of the sister given the special assignment to work with the Indian sisters. We will also appreciate having the special activities in behalf of these sisters reported in the narrative section of the annual report. The Indian sisters are indeed our sisters, to whom we owe special attention, knowing the divine destiny of this race and our responsibility to it as Latterday Saints. We must be not only helpers, but defenders of our Lamanite sisters. Fund-Raising Relief Society takes pride in the fact that it independently maintains itself financially. The judicious raising of funds and their wise disbursement are regarded as important in the training of Relief Society women. The _ traditional method of earning money for the operating expenses of the Society 821 NOVEMBER 1963 has been to engage in fund-raising activities which reflect the interests and regular work of the Society and, at the same time, develop the talents and abilities of the sisters. We are noting, however, that questions are being submitted to the General Board with increasing frequency regarding its attitude toward new types of fund-raising activities. Questions indicate a concern as to whether these activities would violate established fundraising regulations of the Society or in any way be. Questionable or unusual. As a guide to you in judging the acceptability of fund-raising activities, a number of which are identified with advertising of products or services of commercial institutions, we offer the following suggestions: The Society should not be placed in a position of being used, virtually, as a selling agent of a commercial institution in promoting the sale of its product, in order that the Society might benefit financially in some way from so doing. Care should be exercised not to place the Society in a position of influencing the sisters to patronize one merchant over another, either as to his product or services, in order that it might benefit financially. In no instance should the names of Relief Society officers or members be released to a commercial institution for solicitation in selling its product or for any other reason. We again caution Relief Society presidents against entering into arrangements with commercial institutions in the publication of books 822 — for example, songbooks, anthologies of verse, or cookbooks — wherein the Society must make certain commitments and where both the Society and the commercial institution share in the _ profits. Before entering into such an arrangement, we urge you to discuss the matter fully with your presiding Priesthood authority. In addition, sisters, we urge that in planning fund-raising activities, presidents carefully weigh the time, labor, and commodity contributions required of the sisters. We suggest that Relief Society presidents carefully review the instruction in the Handbook of Instructions on "Participation in Advertising Programs," page 108, and also the section on "'Funds" in the Handbook, pages 114-118, as well as instructions on funds issued in Official Instructions at past general conferences. We refer you to the following issues of The Relief Society Magazine: Volume 27 (1940), May, page 297; Volume 36 (1949), December, page 808; Volume 42 (1955), November, page 732; Volume 48 (1961), November, page 732. Conclusion Sisters, we are grateful for your wonderful service to Relief Society, for the capable leadership you are giving to the work, for your magnificent accomplishments. We are thankful for your devotion to Relief Soziety and the righteousness of your lives. May the Lord bless you with happiness and success in your Relief Society labors, I sincerely pray. Relief Society Supports the The inauguration of the Home Teaching program in the Church, as of January 1, 1964, marks a significant step in the implementation of the developing program of the Church Correlating Committee. Relief Society supports the program fully. Being organized under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood according to the laws of heaven, as the Prophet Joseph Smith and President John Taylor declared at the organization of Relief Society in March 1842, the work of Relief Society will continue to go forward at any given time as directed by the Priesthood. The stake and ward Relief Society work will continue, as in the past, to be directed by the respective Priesthood authorities in line with approved practices. Any changes in Relief Society procedures will be introduced in accordance with directives of the General Board at the direction of the General Authorities. From both the theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants and the social science course on Priesthood and Church Government, Relief Society members throughout the world are receiving a _ better understanding of the workings of the Church and the power of the Priesthood. They are also learning of their responsibilities as wives and mothers to support and encourage their husbands and sons in their Priesthood duties. They are mindful of the great blessings of the Priesthood which they share through the Priesthood bearers in their families, and where they have none, of the blessings which come to them from their activities in the Church as directed by the ward and stake or mission and branch Priesthood authorities. President McKay called attention at an initial meeting for Home Teaching representatives that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only church that has divine authority by direct revelation. He said, '""We are speaking to a group of men today whose duties will be to help those who visit to perfect the saints, who will go about teaching 'for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ.' " President McKay also said in closing his remarks, "God bless you and give you inspiration in bringing the spirit of this new program, new assignment to the entire Church rejuvenating all our Ward Teaching with this Home Teaching Plan, that every individual will be brought to a consciousness of the Priesthood which comes direct from the Son of God." The General Board of Relief Society gives its full allegiance to the Home Teaching program and enlists the support and active cooperation of every Relief Society member. 823 Dr. Kathleen Kenyon, a famed British archeologist, is directing a five-year program to uncover the remains of the Holy City. It was practically obliterated by the Romans one hundred years after Jesus warmed that not one stone upon another should be left of Jerusalem. A wall twenty-eight centuries old has been discovered, and bits of broken pottery tell many tales. Senator Maurine Neuberger, from Oregon, has written a book on smoking, to be published by PrenticeHall. She admits having been hard on "the public guardians whose failure to act courageously or decisively has left unchecked the epidemic rise in smoking-connected disease." Madame Herve (Nicole) Alphand, wife of the French Ambassador to the United States, is considered a model of fashion and elegance and has been called "the most charming hostess on Embassy Row." Nevertheless, she is a most devoted wife and mother. She says a wife should be a comfort and support to her husband, reassuring him and constantly renewing his faith in him- 824 Ramona W. Cannon self. Such faith, she believes, all men are inclined to lose occasionally in the fierce competition of modern life. A woman's place is at the side of her husband, being a true companion, she avers. Katherme Anne Porter, author of Ship of Fools, Pale Horse, Pale Rider, and other noted novels and novelettes, as well as many short stories, has been awarded the Emerson-Thoreau Medal by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was also given an honorarium of $1,000, and the awards committee made the comment, "No _ living American is her equal." Dr. Eva J. Salber, of the Harvard University School of Public Health, recently conducted a survey of 6,810 students between fifteen and seventeen years of age, in the public schools of Newton, Massachusetts. The survey covered ninety-one pet cent of the enrollment in this age group. Dr. Salber found that the intelligence quotient (IQ) and the records of accomplishment were consistently much higher for the students, both boys and girls, who were nonsmokers. 826 VOLUME 50 NOVEMBER 1963 N 'We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days." Latter-day Saint women above all others can be grateful that they are members of The Church of Jesus Christ so that they are led by a prophet; can be thankful when their husbands hold the Priesthood and exercise its power in behalf of their families. A great to-do is made today of the changing world and, especially, of the changing role of women in today's world. Glib words are spoken of the new qualities and resources a woman needs to fulfill herself. To a Latter-day Saint these statements are loaded with the sophistries of men. It is true that the demands of the present civilization require more education and years of training, but basic qualities and characteristics of the human soul remain the same. The Lord is no respecter of persons and his children, in any of his dispensations, are judged by their thoughts and actions in line with the light of truth vouchsafed to them at the particular time in which they live. In this dispensation great and high, indeed, are the standards by which the members of the Church will be judged because of the light and truth which abounds. Journeys into space and conjectures as to whether or not a man can be placed on the moon or other heavenly bodies are of interest, but with man's present knowledge, no one, probably, can approach the knowledge which Abraham had of the heavens, for he was shown some of the Lord's handiwork by the Lord himself, and the laws of earth life remain unchanged. And so it is with the work of women today when economics and other pressures tend to force or beckon women into the labor market. The Latter-day Saint woman knows through the direction of the prophets that her fundamental vii Anna B. Hart Pearle M. Olsen Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stoddard LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Josie B. Bay LaPriel S. Bunker Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Charlotte A. Larsen Hazel S. Cannon Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Winniefred S. Fawn H. Sharp Manwaring Celestia J. Taylor Elna P. Haymond Anne R. Gledhill Mary R. Young Belva Barlow Mary V. Cameron Zola J. McGhie Afton W. Hunt Oa J. Cannon Wealtha S. Mendenhall Lila B. Walch role has not changed. It remains the eternal one of wife and helpmeet to her husband, and mother of men, she who clothes the spirit children of her Father in heaven in a body of clay of this world and rears them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. What has changed since Eve brought forth Abel, and Cain, and Seth? What added qualities of mind or spirit have been given to women today, not possessed by Eve? Her role as wife and mother has not changed, nor her attributes nor understanding. Eve knew the bitter sorrow of the evil in her son Cain and had at her command the same faith and trust in the Lord that her daughters have today. One cannot believe that the great mother Eve was derelict in teaching light and truth to Cain. Her blamelessness in his wickedness would be her comfort, as it would be to a mother today. In this world today, the only differences from earlier times are external ones. Women remain the same. Temptations which batter at the fundamental virtues wear different garbs and appeals with which Satan seeks to entice women away from their God-given work as wives and mothers. The same virtues are needed - faith, repentance, prayer, loyalty, guidance, and a knowledge of the truths of the gospel and a living of them. Nothing new is needed to "allow her to fulfill herself.'' Washers, dryers, comptometers, furnishings, automobiles, helicopters, airplanes, typewriters, higher education, space travel - all hold out intriguing possibilities and woman's free agency remains. She may develop her potentialities to the fullest, for the Lord has instructed his children to develop their talents. But, with it all, woman is held to her fundamental role as wife and mother. Whatever else a woman does, nothing will excuse her from the fulfillment, as the opportunity comes to her, to be wife and mother. Joy and exaltation rest upon obedience to the two basic commandments of the Lord to Eve - to be a helpmeet and a bearer of children. —M. C. S. 827 What Mormonism Means to Me Lorinda Tortice As an activity in the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church, a Youth Conference open to Indian students in the program over fifteen years of age was held in April at Bountiful, Utah, prior to the return of the young people to their parents on the Indian reservations. Leadership abilities in speech, essay, talent, and display were demonstrated and awards of twenty-five dollars each, to be applied on their college tuition, were given to the winners. Printed below is the speech which won an award for Lorinda Tortice, a fifteenvear-old girl of the Apache tribe (Ed.). To me Mormonism is a way of life to be lived each and every hour of each and every day. Why am I a Mormon? Have you really thought for an answer to that question? Of course, it is a big one — it can well concern a person during his entire life. The time has come when President David O. McKay has charged every member of the Church with the responsibility of being a missionary, so it is more important today than ever before that we have the question clearly in mind, that we not only work out an answer to satisfy ourselves, but we must be prepared to answer all inquiries. "What do the Mormons believe?" "How are their teachings different from those of other churches?" "Are the Mormons Christians?" I hope if I am ever confronted with these questions, I will not have to stumble about and then say, "Well, I guess I'm up against it." Many of us are Mormons because our parents are. 'This is a good reason, but our parents cannot give us a testimony. We gain a testimony from our Heavenly Father through the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, but we must do our part first, by having a desire to know the truth, then, 828 through faith, diligent study, and prayer, our Heavenly Father makes the truth known to us. This is what Mormonism means to me. I was baptized in the same manner Jesus Christ himself was baptized, by immersion and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands from those in authority, meaning men holding the Holy Priesthood. I believe in modern revelation. I know that President David O. McKay is a true Prophet as was Joseph Smith. It does not sound logical to me that God would talk to the prophets of old, then seal the heavens and cease to guide men in these perilous times when we need direction as never before. I am a Mormon because I know that the gospel is God's plan to save his children, and it more perfectly satisfies all the desires, conditions, and needs of mankind than any other system of ethics or philosophy. Mormonism explains my origin, and The Book of Mormon is a history of my own people. How dear to my heart are this Book and Mor monism. Without them, my existence would be empty and motiveless. I know that if I follow the teachings of Mormonism, I will receive untold blessings. the Home Churning Day Maude Rubin Slow-splashing rhythm, steady beat Of dasher... Metronome Of slow-paced music, honey-sweet, - Time riding clover foam A pantry window toward the creek — Biue mountain steep beyond; Green lace of leaves where robins speak; Mint-freshness; fern-fringed pond. Cool pantry shelves where shallow pans Hold yellow Guernsey cream, Blue-checkered gingham apron spans Grandmother's waist; each seam Starch-crisp and straight, its strings bow-tied Her crinkled smiles unfold — Then fold, as she takes care to hide Her pride in butter gold! 829 Welk oer we CHORES Dora Black In my memories of long ago, Saturday and chores were as synonymous and inescapable as Sunday and church. Requests to visit a friend or go play for Saturday were dismissed with the question, "Have you done your chores?" Mama had four girls and four chores. Which was most important, girls or chores? It could only be surmised. We heard from Mama often enough to etch it in our memories. "We don't have much, but what we have we'll polish." We did! On Saturday, Lillian polished all the family's shoes — a dull chore. Venna filled the lamps with kerosene and polished the chimneys — an even duller chore. Zelma waxed and polished the kitchen floor — dullness personified. The polished floor was, however, a proper setting for the big black, nickel-laden monarch of the kitchen, the stove, and my chore — not dull but animated. I secretly believed the stove was proud and enjoyed my loving care. On occasion we even held conversations, usually pertaining to my giving the stove "'a lick and a promise." 'Then, with complete harmony between us, I could skip cleaning the warming oven and have more time for play. There was a definite procedure to follow in performing my chore. It was important to empty the ashes first, so no ash dust could settle on the polished surfaces. In summer the ashes were emptied "way out back." In winter they were sprinkled along the snow paths. Next step was to empty any remaining water in the reservoir and refill it with fresh water from the pump. This required many splashy trips and was why I had to do my chore before Zelma could do hers. When the reservoir was filled and closed, I removed all the removable nickel from the stove — like stripping down a Cadillac — and put it aside for a later polishing. Then to the warming oven. What a collection it held — seasonings, hand irons, lard pail, skillets, and still room for late suppers to be kept warm and space to keep a supply of dry, hard toast on hand. After things were returned to their familiar places I cleaned the baking oven. It was an easy part of my chore, with the aroma of golden, plump loaves of bread seeming to linger there. Finally, I could wet the long-handled brush, rub it on the cake of stoveblack, then on the stove, and polish and polish and polish! It ls questionable whether all this diligent polishing was motivated by the stove's proud personality or just because I didn't want to hear Mama say, "A little more elbow grease won't hurt" or "... What we have we'll polish." Polishing the nickel was fun, too, first rubbing a soft, wet cloth on the long bar and then over the surface of the piece. Drawing pictures, writing names, and playing tic-tac-toe in the polishing film before rubbing it off, was all part of my chore. When the last piece of nickel was shining and in place, I felt as proud as the stove looked. My chore was finished. With Mama's nodding approval, I was free for friends or play. 830 the Food Budget Part lli—Peanut Butter Marion Bennion, Ph. D. Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Peanuts are not nuts in the strict botanical sense. 'They are members of the same family as dried beans and peas. Peanuts and peanut butter contain a large amount of protein, about twenty-six per cent, and this protein is of good quality, meaning it compares favorably with the proteins of meat. In addition to protein, peanuts and peanut butter contain the vitamins thiamine, riboflavin, and macin. They are also high in fat. Peanut butter was first produced commercially by grinding and mixing peanuts about 1907 and has rapidly gained in popularity since then. It lends itself to a variety of uses in the diet, possibly the most popular being those of sandwich 'filling and cookies. PEANUT BUTTER REFRIGERATOR COOKIES 1 c. Shortening 1% c. Peanut butter 9 c. Brown sugar 3 eggs 4 c. Cake flour I tsp. Baking soda I tsp. Cinnamon l', tsp. Cloves 4, tsp. Nutmeg 1 c. Salted peanuts, finely chopped (optional) Cream shortening thoroughly; blend in the peanut butter, then the sugar. Add well-beaten eggs. Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the chopped peanuts, and combine thoroughly with the creamed mixture. Form into rolls, wrap in waxed paper, and let stand in refrigerator several hours or overnight. Slice thin, place on a baking sheet, and bake at 400° F. For 8 to 10 minutes. Makes about 16 dozen cookies. 831 SAUCEPAN PEANUT BUTTER SCOTCHIES 34, c. Butter or substitute 3c. Peanut butter 14, c. Brown sugar, packed 2 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla ll4, c. Sifted flour *2 tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Chopped nuts Rub bottom of a 9-inch square pan with shortening. Melt shortening and peanut butter in a saucepan. Remove from heat. Add sugar and blend. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well. Stir in vanilla, flour, and baking powder. Mix thoroughly. Add: nuts and stir lightly to combine. Pour into prepared pan. Bake in a moderate oven (250° F) about 30 minutes. Do not overbake. Cool in pan. Cut into bars at serving time. Yield: 24 bars (144 x 3 inches) *Baking powder may be omitted. If so, the bars will be more even on top and lighter in color. PEANUT BUTTER CAKE 214, c. Cake flour ll4, c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Salt 1, c. Shortening 1, c. Peanut butter 14 c. Regular nonfat dry milk (or 14 c. Instant nonfat dry milk) 1' c. Water 2 eggs Combine all ingredients above, except the eggs, in a large mixing bowl. Beat at medium speed for 2 minutes. Add the eggs, and continue beating at medium speed for 4 minutes more. Pour cake batter into two 8-inch cake pans (greased and floured or lined with waxed paper). Bake at 350° F. For 25-30 minutes. Cool cake in pans 10-20 minutes. Remove from pans and frost. 832 PEANUT BUTTER KISSES 14 c. Peanut butter 1, c. Honey 4 c. Regular nonfat dry milk (instant nonfat dry milk cannot be used) Mix peanut butter and honey together. Blend in dry milk, a small amount at a time. Work into ball and form into roll about % inch wide. Cut into 1-inch pieces. Makes about 24 pieces. PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 4 c. Soft shortening Vy c. Sugar 14, c. Brown sugar 1 egg Il4, c. Sifted flour 4, tsp. Baking powder 34, tsp. Soda 14, tsp. Salt c 14, c. Peanut butter c c Mix shortening, peanut butter, sugar, and egg together thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together and stir in. Chill dough. Roll into balls size of large walnuts. Place 3" apart on lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten with fork dipped in flour, criscross. Bake until set, but not hard at 375° F. For 10 to 12 minutes. Makes about 3 dozen cookies. PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICH SPREADS Savory peanut-bacon spread: Mix '4 c. Peanut butter with 1% c. Catsup and 14 c. Chopped crisp cooked bacon. Enough for 6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-apple spread: Mix Y c. Peanut butter with 14 c. Honey and add 14 c. Chopped apple. Enough for 6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-orange spread: Mix 14 c. Peanut butter with!/ c. Chopped orange. Enough for 4-6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-raisin spread: Mix 14 c. Peanut butter with 4 c. Honey and add l4 ¢c. Raisins (which have been softened in hot water). Enough for 6 sandwiches. Awup the Christmas planning and Promoting, the holiday shuffle. Everyone is planning, trimmi Preschooler gets lost in ng, and tidying, except S just before Christmas. The Here, then, are ed things weeks ahead ready to Ourteen days arrives. Let your child put his handj. " hallways, or the kitchen, if it doesn't quite fit the decor of your living room, but above all display his handiwork! 833 First Day This project needs very little help from busy mom, just the time it takes her to light a colored candle and drip, on paper, big drops of wax. (She can do this away from him so he will not see her with a lighted candle.) The child makes beads of the droplets, by rounding them in his fingers. He then strings them on a long string, using a large needle. The wax beads look colorful on the Christmas tree, or hanging from his bedroom light fixture. Second Day This one needs supervision, but maybe big sister or a favorite neighbor girl can help. Take a small tin plate (the kind that individual frozen pies come in) and make two small holes near one edge. Tie a string through the holes so as to be able to hang the finished object. Make up some plaster of Paris or patching plaster according to the directions on the package. Let the child help stir it with a popsickle stick. Now pour it into the tin plate, and when it is beginning to set, have the child put his right hand, palm down, into the mixture, leaving his handprint. Write with a toothpick his name and the date, and let it dry. This makes a welcome gift for grandma or doting auntie. Third Day Give the child a pair of rounded scissors and let him cut small pictures from last December magazines or used Christmas cards. Make a paste of one tablespoon of flour and enough water for workable consistency, or use packaged wallpaper paste, and attach the pictures to lids, leaving the rim of the lid for a border. Cottage cheese carton lids, the little flat sealing units from home-canned fruit, or any flat lid will do. Now glue three of these colorful lids in a vertical row on a length of wide ribbon, leaving about an inch of ribbon between each lid. Have about two inches of ribbon extending from the top lid by which to hang it. This makes a clever wall decoration. Fourth Day Give the child an old candle. If the point is worn down on the top, shape another point. Let him cut rounds of colored paper, beginning with one or two inches in diameter. Each one is to be a little larger than the one before. It will take about twelve to fourteen circles, depending on how tall the candle is. A pencil on a string may be used to make the circles. He now cuts a small hole in the center of each circle, a little smaller than the candle is round. This is so the circles will stay on the candle where placed, and not slip down. Now let him glue small beads, or bits of colored crayon, or sequins, or other sparklers on. Both sides of each circle and slip each circle on the candle, starting with the largest one to go at the base of the candle. This makes a colorful little tree for his dresser. Fifth Day Have the child cut small shapes of colored paper. These can be from the scraps of Christmas cards or the colored pages in magazines. They can be any shape, so just turn him loose. Now give him a_ large needle and thread and some short macaroni pieces and let him string first a piece of paper, then a piece of macaroni. This bright interesting string can be draped on the family Christmas tree, or hung in the child's room. Sixth Day Let this day be his baking day. Let him help you make gingerbread boys and candy houses, or sugar cookies cut into all kinds of Christmas shapes. You might want to make popcorn balls. Just be sure to make enough to let him take a few to his little neighborhood friends. Seventh Day This project will need your help, but you will be able to use some of these sparkle droplets, too, so your time will not have been in vain. Buy some marbles, the colored glass ones, or raid big brother's marble bag. Put three or four marbles at a time in a pie tin and heat them on the top of the stove, stirring them with a fork. Take old tweezers or ice cube tongs and pick the marbles up one at a time and douse each one into very cold water. This sudden change of temperature crystallizes the marbles and produces a delightful effect. They can be used to garnish a table centerpiece. You can also make a necklace with one attached to a chain. Ask at your jewelry counter for the little metal attachment with which to do this. The child can arrange the silvery little bulbs in dishes with Christmas greens and small and large Christmas balls. Eighth Day Let your child help you make a little Christmas box. Pick out six of your largest, most colorful last year's Christmas cards. They should all be of a large square shape. You will also need some colorful yarn. Cut the cards all the same size as the smallest one. Two of the cards are for the bottom and lid. Be sure to use all four thicknesses of each card to give your box the proper body. With a small paper punch, make holes all around the edge of each card. Or you can just punch the holes with a needle. Have the child join the four cards by lacing them together with ribbon or yarn to form a box. Now lace the bottom card in place. Attach the lid card only on one edge so it will open and shut, but lace it all around so it will look finished. This pretty box will hold his little treasures, or mom's bobbie pins. Father may want one in which to keep his cuff links. 836 Ninth Day Get a piece of butcher paper about three feet long from your butcher or grocer. Help the child paint or crayon a winter scene with mountains, roads, and, maybe, a river. Now the child cuts small "props" from magazines, and pastes them in the picture. He may want to put small cars on the roads, or an airplane in the sky. Of course, he will put a Santa in a sled in the landscape and houses or trees, or whatever he feels his masterpiece needs. He will enjoy displaying this on his bedroom wall. Tenth Day A peep box is the favorite time-passer of all. It is up to mother to make most of the box, if the child is small, but once made, it keeps him busy for hours. Take a small sturdy box. A small shoe box or card box will do. Cut a hole about one inch square in the center of one end of the box. This is the peephole. Cut figures and bend a little of the bottom under so that they will stand up when glued to the bottom of the box, making a three dimensional scene with the winter scene behind. You can use animals, or make the nativity scene. With a pin, puncture about a dozen holes just above the mountains or treetops in the end of the box. These holes become stars. Now, on the lid of the box, and just above the scene inside, cut a hole about two inches square, leaving one side of the square uncut, so you have a flap that will open and close like a door. Have the child hold the box toward the light and slowly open the little door in the box lid, while peeping through the peephole. Thus the scene inside the box slowly becomes lighted, or becomes "daylight," and then have him slowly close it to make it become night again. As it becomes night, the "stars" shine. 837 Eleventh Day Today let him make a scrapbook of all the Christmas pictures from magazines and cards that take his fancy. If you don't have a scrapbook for him to fill, he can paste the pictures in an old magazine right over the ads and the printing. He will take most of the day filling the book, and will spend other days looking at it, as it contains all his favorite Christmas scenes. Twelfth Day! This is a fun day. Have the child make a game on this day. Take an egg carton and tear off the lid. Now he pastes four or five paper figures such as a little Santa or ao Christmas tree in several cups of the carton. The child places the carton on the floor and stands back. He tosses buttons or beans into the egg carton and tries to get them into the sections where the pictures are. This is fun even when played alone. Thirteenth Day The making of chains is a very old Christmas pastime, but a good one for small children. Let the mother mark the paper and have the child cut the small rectangles about one-half inch wide and three inches long. (Colored construction paper is good for this project.) Now paste one strip into a cylinder, and paste the next one _ interlocking and so on to make a chain. He can make the chain as long as his patience will hold out. This is also a hang-it-on-the-tree article. Fourteenth Day This brings us up to Christmas Eve. Let the child weave place mats to use for your Christmas dinner. Take a sheet of green construction paper and cut slits across lengthwise, about one-half inch apart. Cut them to within one-half inch of the edge of the paper so there is a half-inch border all around the sheet of paper. Now, take red colored strips about one-half inch wide, and as long as the green paper is wide, and weave them in and out through the slits in the green paper. Write each family member's name on a mat. 838 CROCHET DESIGNS - Varwus and Beautiful Gertrude Talbot Lister, Salt Lake City, Utah, is an expert with the crochet hook. She has crocheted twenty-seven beautiful tablecloths and lace for many pillowslips. Her crocheted doilies have been much in demand for Relief Society bazaars, and Mrs. Lister has found that her handiwork makes lovely and appreciated gifts for weddings, birthdays, and for Christmas. Her fine and even stitches have enhanced the value of hundreds of quilts and have inspired other quilters to excel in this lovely and useful art. She is a devoted and inspirational member of Relief Society, loving and serving the sisterhood. Sarah Stevens Farmer Sarah Stevens Farmer, Monroe, Utah, has spent her lifetime helping others and has always appreciated beautiful handicraft. Wherever she has lived, and wherever she goes, her pathway has been designed in beauty. Not only has she found satisfaction in designing exquisite articles with needle and thread and crochet hook, but her flower gardens have been patterns of beauty for her sisters in the community to emulate. Mrs. Farmer has served for many years as a practical nurse, offering her kind ministraoa to those in need, and she is known for her good works in the valleys of her home and. 839 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse, and became engaged to Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San F rancisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. Luana awakened later than usua! The next morning. Ben had already had his swim with Philip in the lagoon. Now he was dressing in his best dark suit and gray tie, instead of the customary whipcord trousers and aloha shirt, that he wore on the plantation. "Is there a Church meeting?" 840 she questioned as she bounced out of bed to help him with his tie. "I'm off to school with Benjy and Bo," he explained. "This js the day Bo must apologize to his teacher and his classmates. If I go along he'll realize how serious it Is. Otherwise, he might make sport of it. You know Bo." Yes, she knew Bo, Luana thought with a sigh. Bo always climbed the tallest trees, dived after the biggest fish, rode the highest waves, and wanted the most fun out of life. Ben was right. Bo must be made to realize how serious it was. Ben looked at the clock. "Lazy woman!" he laughed. "On your toes now, or we'll all be late." "All right, Sergeant," she laughed back. "You look real handsome this morning." "T feel real hungry," he answered. "Some cereal and eggs will just hit the spot. Ill get things going." "Tll bet Tutu has started breakfast,' Luana told him. "She always does when I oversleep." Minutes later, when she went to the kitchen, the table was set, and hot corn meal was bubbling in the double boiler. Ben, with a huge apron around his waist, was cracking eggs in a bowl. Luana mixed the fruit juice in a large pitcher. "Good morning, my darlings," Tutu called from the lanai. She was pounding breadfruit for poi. Margaret, fresh and pretty in a bright new muumuu dress, was seated beside her. "Last week I used taro roots for poi," Tutu explained. "I made three gallons then. It should be ready soon." "Yes, dear," Luana said. "Don't let it ferment too long. How many gallons do we have on hand?" "Not many," Tutu answered. "A family of eight eats so much. Now, with Margaret, there will be nine of us to eat poi every day." "Count me _ out!" Margaret laughed. "I couldn't eat poi every day. Not even once a week!" "We use it like bread," Luana said. "When I first came to Hawaii I felt as you do, Margaret. It tasted as flat as wallpaper paste. And that awful grayish color! But after awhile..." she smiled again as she shrugged her shoulders, "I accepted it as part of life in Hawaii." "When in Hawaii," Tutu said, "do as the Hawaiians do." She gave KISS OF THE WIND Margaret a loving wink. "Do we sound smug, my dear?" she asked. "We really don't mean to. Some people never learn to like poi. No doubt Emma Lu is quite weaned away from it by now." "Let Emma Lu speak for herself," she said, as she came in from the garden with the monkey perched on her shoulder. Philip came in with her. Luana was glad he had forgiven his sister for being engaged. Miama, do we have bananas and grapes?" Emma Lu asked. "T think so, dear. Look in the basket on the lanai. 'There should be some, but I never know. Benjy and Bo eat them every day after school." "Now, they'll have to share them with Toki," Emma Lu said. "That's what I've named this little chum." She reached up to pat the monkey. "Ouch! He needs his teeth filed. Larry told me to do this first thing. He bites while he's playing." "That's nght," Phil agreed. "Larty knows all about these monkeys. He says they like you to chatter with them and make little clicking sounds with your tongue." "Like this," Emma Lu said. "Listen to the cute thing. He needs some baby food. Do we have any, Mama?" "Not since the twins were babies," Luana told her. "But Millie Togo, our foreman's wife, has a new baby. She will lend you some. They live in the cottage. We used to call it the playhouse. Remember?" "Tll be nght back," Emma Lu called as she ran through the dewdrenched foliage of the garden to- 84] NOVEMBER 1963 ward the little cottage in the rear of the big white house. The monkey was still on her shoulder. "She's crazy about that monkey," Phil said. "Real smart of Benjy and Bo to dream up that idea. Where are those boys, Mom? They'll be late for school." "Hurry them along, Phil,' Luana suggested. "I'll have everything ready." A minute later Philip called from the boys' bedroom. His voice was alarmed. / "Hey here!" Luana dried her hands on_ her apron as she ran. Ben was close behind her. Benjy was sobbing into his pillow. Bo was not there. "He's gone!"' Benjy wailed. "Bo ran away. He's never coming back. He won't apologize to any old school!" — Mom! Dad — come Luana pressed her hand to her mouth. Her stricken eyes met Ben's. They should have been prepared for something like this. Bo had always been unpredictable and stubborn. Ben sat down on the bed facing Benjy. "Now listen, son," he said, firmly. "Tears never won any battle. Oh, I remember that I have told you that men cry sometimes. But they don't cry very long when there's a job to do. Here, take Daddy's handkerchief and mop up. There — that's better. I want some straight answers. Where did your brother go? He must have told you." "But he didn't, Daddy." Benjy met Ben's eyes with childlike can- 842 dor. "He said he couldn't trust me. I don't know where he went. It was dark. He just sort of disappeared." "Why didn't you come to us?" Ben demanded. "You knew he was doing wrong." Benjy's face crumpled again. "He made me promise," his voice broke. "Scout honor. He said I couldn't tell until you missed him — then he would be clear off this old island." Luana felt sick and dizzy. Margaret, who had come in with Tutu, put her arm around her. "He can't be far away," she said consolingly. "T don't know," Luana answered. "Maybe he's hungry somewhere — or wet and tired. Where would he go? Benjy, look at me. Did Bo take something to eat with him. Tell me, dear." "Two bananas," he answered. "I told him to take Bengals and ham but he said he would have fish baked in the mud He said he would get a canoe." Phil snapped his fingers. "Old Hamana's," he said. "Benjy, have you been riding in canoes? He makes canoes for the native fishermen and for people who travel water between the islands. Tell us." Benjy nodded. "Well — yes. That's not blabbing on Bo, ls it, Phil?" "Absolutely not," Phil said. "You just answer our questions. How often have you been riding in Hamana's canoes?" Benjy drew a long tremulous breath. "Every week," he admitted. "On Saturday morning — after we did our chores. He took us for little rides. But he told us that some day when we had our father's permission he would ride us clear over to Molokai. The Air Force has a big base there now. They send rockets up. Missiles, too." "Molokai!" Margaret gasped, in a shocked voice. "Now I remember. Isn't that the leper island?" There was a long silence. Then Tutu answered, kindly. "Yes, Margaret. But that word is forbidden in Hawaii now. We call it Hansen's disease, and we call the Peninsula of Kalaupapa the Settlement. It isn't the place of horror that it used to be. I will tell you of it later." Ben got to his feet. "Benjy, get your clothes on. As soon as we have breakfast, you and Phil and I will go to Hamana's. We have to start looking somewhere." After the boys had gone, Luana sat quietly at the breakfast table. The food on her plate was untouched. "Some hot coconut milk will help," Tutu said, pouring it into their cups. "Take a few sips, my Luana." "It does help,'"" Luana told her as She drank it slowly. 'Tutu always knows what will help, she thought. Tutu brought her knitting basket and busied her fingers with a bright blue sweater for Pixie, who had hurried off to school. Luana thought it best that she should go as usual. "Take a piece of toast with your milk, Mama," Emma Lu coaxed. "You can't do Bo any good by starving yourself." "We must keep strong to help our men," Tutu murmured. "A woman KISS OF THE WIND can wither away with worry and no food. I have found it best to keep my mind on other things when trouble would send it whirling around in a circle." She looked at Margaret who was sipping milk, too. "T should explain Molokai," 'Tutu said as she knitted, "so that when you return to the Mainland, you can tell them of the wonderful progress that has been made on that island, especially on the peninsula that used to be the horror spot of the world." Emma Lu nodded approval. "I agree,' she said. "It's really sad how ignorance and prejudice try to hinder progress. And the world doesn't know of the progress on Molokai." She smiled at Tutu. "I remember a talk you gave at Relief Society before I went to the Mainland. Tell Aunt Margaret about it. She couldn't hear it from a better teacher." 'Well — maybe part of it," Tutu said, looking at Luana for consent. "T would like you to talk about it, Tutu," she said. "You have such a soothing voice. It quiets my fear even when I am too worried to think straight." "Molokai," Tutu began, "is the island between Oahu and Maui. We flew over part of it last night coming home. The island is the result of three volcanic upheavals — our other islands are the result of many more. The western part of Molokai was formed first. It is as bare as the plains of Nebraska and Wyoming on the Mainland. 'There is a long-dead volcano in the center. The eastern part was formed with a volcano five thousand feet high in the 843 NOVEMBER 1963 center. Centuries later the Peninsula of Kalaupapa, where the Settlement is, was formed with the little Kauhako crater. Each part is entirely different from the other parts. The western part has nothing at all to offer visitors. Benjy was right when he said the Air Force is now using it as a base for rocket experiments. "The eastern part has much to offer those who like to explore. But there isn't much for those who are seeking pleasure and excitement. That is one reason the visitors know very little about Molokai. I want Margaret to know about it. Someday T will take her there myself. She will hear about the beauty of our other islands from visitors to Hawaii, but little about Molakai." Tuat's right," Emma Lu agreed. "There is only one real town on the island. 'That's Kaunakakai, the capkal," "Yes," Tutu went on. "Ben's father and I spent many happy days there when he was a supervisor for the pineapple company. We went there to inspect the pineapple lands. Now there is a nice little seaside inn there, motor courts, and eating places. But in those days we visited good friends who lived high on a mountain slope above the pineapple lands. Here we would visit and sing through the long evening sunset. We had clear crystal wai from their own spring, and wai-u from their own cows and deer, and waiupaka made from the wai-u and waiu-paka-paka...." Emma Lu's laugh broke in. "Tutu!" she said. "Aunt Margaret is puzzled. Tell her you mean spring 844 water and goat's milk and butter and cheese made from the goat's milk." Tutu chuckled. "Sometimes I get carried away," she said. "TI like the Hawaiian language. It is music — every word ends in a vowel. It is very easy to learn, Margaret. I could teach you in a short time. I have always been grateful that I learned it so soon after my arrival in Hawaii." Margaret shook her head. "I'm not good at languages the way you are, Tutu. Each to his own. Give me a paint brush, and I'll tell you a story of Hawaii that I hope the world will love to look at. I can hardly wait to get started." "How true," Tutu said. "Each to his own talent. You must paint when you get the feeling to do it." Luana stirred restlessly. She was ashamed of her reaction when Margaret mentioned her art work. "Tell about the cheese on Molokai," Emma Lu suggested. Tutu nodded. "My friends on Molokai made many kinds of cheese. One year they had such an abundance they decided to send several cartons of it to some relatives in San Francisco. They went to great pains to pack it and mail it carefully. Months went past, and still they heard nothing about the cheese. At last they sent a letter asking if it had been received. Word came back that the cheese had been received but was immediately thrown away when they saw the name Molokai on the address. They were afraid to eat anything from that island." "That's typical," Emma Lu said. "It shows how suspicious people can be when they are not informed and don't take the trouble to find out about things." "T must tell you of the progress of Kalaupapa," 'Tutu went on. "Only four white people have ever contracted the disease at the Settlement since its founding in 1866. Now it is being brought under control by drugs. It is not communicable to white adults. "A specialist in this disease has said that a person who has recovered from it is no more to be feared than one who-has recovered from tuberculosis or scarlet fever. In 1885 there were one thousand patients on Kalaupapa. 'Today, there are no more than one hundred. And the number is steadily declining. Of the hundred there are orily five white persons." T uru sighed deeply. "Still, we must admit," she said, "that some of the suffering is beyond words. But even that is being alleviated as fast as possible. You will be surprised, Margaret, when I tell you that Kalaupapa is now a happy place, with music and laughter. Some of the discharged patients don't want to leave it. We visit there regularly." "You visit there!'' Margaret gasped. "Right on Kalaupapa!"' Tutu's eyes kindled with compassion. "Yes, we visit there, Margaret — a group of women from this area. We take books and picture slides of the outside world. We have taught them how to make beauty blossom on that rock-bound peninsula. We took them seeds and cuttings from our choicest flora. From year to year, I have seen flowKISS OF THE WIND ers grow where none had ever grown before. "Our ward gave a bazaar and raised money for many ukeleles. | have taught many to play and sing. The ukelele is like the Hawaiian language, Margaret, easy to learn. Just a single chord will do to sing by. If you know two or three chords, you are an expert. When we first started going there a few years ago, after we were advised by medical authorities that it was safe to do so, I could see how starved the people were to express themselves. We taught them to sew and to weave beautiful baskets from the long grass and willows. We taught them to use wood from the barren trees for figurines. "My girls, Emma Lu and Luana, have helped there many times. Also Philip and Ben. That is part of our duty. We must leave no stone unturned where help is needed." There were footsteps on the graveled path outside. Luana jumped to her feet and ran to meet them. A quick glance at Ben's face told her they had not found Bo. His mouth was set in a hard, determined line. His voice was flat. "Hamana has not seen him. We must search again while it is daylight." Benjy's face puckered into tears. Luana held him close to her. "Maybe..." he choked, "he might go to the little crater. He always wanted to go.... Daddy? Said we couldn't go alone.... "That deserted crater!'' Ben said fiercely. "No one goes there. I'll call Elder Farnsworth. We'll form a posse." (To be continued ) 845 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Vii suatenal submitted for publieation im this department sheuld be sent through Stake nd itsston | ty | iat Sco regnlations governing the submittal of iitertal tian" No 1 tl d Viagazine for januan 195%. Pase 47. And RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES March 9, 1963 Standing, left to right: Florence Galbraith, Tokoroa Branch; Raiha TeNgaio, Temple View Ward; Theo Garry, President, Hamilton Stake Relief Society. Sister Garry reports: "Sister Galbraith and Sister TeNgaio are two of the oldest active Relief Society members in Hamilton Stake. They are seen with the birthday cake on the occasion of the stake Relief Society anniversary party." 846 NOVEMBER 1963 Minnesota Stake, Minneapolis Second Ward Make Spring Hats April 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Fay Dearden, Work Director Counselor; Hazel Rigby; Gwenevere Gwynn; Sharon Norton; Jennie Fisbaugh, work meeting leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Dorothy Mathias; Kay Packard; Joyce Haggen; Ruble Kiessling. Violet Larson, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters in the Minneapolis Second Ward had a very good time making hats and felt very proud of their accomplishments. Thirteen hats were made in the April work meeting. The straw braid and other materials were purchased at a wholesale milliner's, and the hats were made with the use of frames and hat blocks, steam, glue, and some sewing." East Los Angeles Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ', April 20, 1963 Front row, beginning seventh from the left, left to right: Leah Jane Hill, First Counselor; Margaret W. Clarke, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society; Oa J. Cannon, member, General Board of Relief Society; Priscilla Taylor, chorister; Katherine Larsen, organist. Sister Clarke reports: "We are very proud of our Singing Mothers who presented an outstanding concert on March 23, 1963, at the stake center in commemoration of the 12lst birthday of Relief Society. Approximately 450 members and friends were in attendance. Refreshments and a social hour followed the concert. This group also responded to an invitation to sing for the Mark Keppel High School PTA meeting in March. As the stake chorus is made up of ward Singing Mothers groups, we have had the pleasure of hearing from these ward groups at our leadership meetings this past year. They also furnished the music for sacrament meetings in their respective wards when invited to do so by their bishops." Hawaii Mission Relief Society General Meeting at Hilo, Hawaii May 22, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Pearl Mahi, secretary-treasurer, Hawaii District Relief Society; Abbie Kailimai, President, Hawaii District Relief Society; Chiyo Meyers, First Counselor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Lucile B. Fitzgerald; Blanche B. Stoddard, of the General Board of Relief Society; Louise S. Brooks, President, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Mary Soon, Second Counselor in the Mission Relief Society; Carolyn Kilauuano, Secretary in the Mission Relief Society; Beatrice Bertleman, First Counselor, Hawaii District Relief Society; Annie Taukea, Second Counselor, Hawaii District Relief Society. Sister Brooks reports: "A wonderful general meeting was held, at which time the Singing Mothers participated, as well as representatives from the different branches to give a report of the activities of the past year, as well as to introduce the program for the coming summer months, which is a study of the Hawaiian language. "After the general meeting, we adjourned to the cultural hall where every branch participated in setting up its assigned section with its handiwork. Many Hawaiian kapas were on display. Some of these, with the Hawaiian coat of arms, are seen in the background of the picture. Also on display were lauhala weaving, cooking projects, the sewing of muumuus, and many other sewing projects. "It was truly a dream come true for many of us here, and we will long remember the many happy events that have made it so memorable for us. Sister Stoddard's words of wisdom will be long remembered and put into practice by the sisters." 848 |e feegae 8 R a gerne * April 12-13, 1963 Patricia J. Stone, North Argentine Mission Auxiliary Coordinator, reports: "The Argentine North Mission held its first seminar in a series of four during the month of April and the first week in May. These seminars were designed especially for each auxiliary organization. On April 12th and 13th, the presidents and secretaries from our district Relief Societies came into Cordoba to the mission home for a wonderful two days of instructions and learning. Since we are a new mission, we stressed mostly the basic structure of the organization and tried especially to stress the proper line of communication and Church procedure. It was a wonderful experience for all, and we ended our seminar with a testimony meeting. The Spirit of the Lord was with us in great abundance. All the sisters seemed thrilled with the experience of meeting one another and sharing ideas and talents together. "Dorcas T. Barragan is our mission Relief Society supervisor. She has as her secretary, Afton Anderson. Patricia J. Stone is acting as coordinator of the auxiliary organizations in the mission." April 27, 1963 Nola Parry, the chorister, stands at the right in the front row, and the accompanist, Mae Barton, stands at the left in the front row. Helen E. Bunnell, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The social was sponsored by the Carbon Stake Relief Society board, and was presented in appreciation to all the Relief Society members in the stake. The program depicted the many stages of a woman's life, showing that each period, from babyhood to old age, can be rich, happy, and rewarding. The stage was tastefully decorated with evergreens and spring flowers. Dainty refreshments were served from a beautifully appointed table. All who attended were impressed by the spirit and the message of the afternoon event. The Singing Mothers chorus also presented music for stake conference which was held at the time of the Relief Society convention in January." Front row, left to right: Margarethe Anna Wallner, West District; Maria Springle, West District; Olga Friihauf, South District; Caecilia Bogner, Vienna District; Paula Polz, Vienna District; Alice Colton Smith, former President, Austrian Mission Relief Society; W. Whitney Smith, former President, Austrian Mission; Helmi Luschin, South District. Back row, left to right: Gertrude Roth, West District; Elisabeth Elhenicky, Vienna District; Ruth Teml, Vienna District; Marie Luise Rieser, West District; Maria Anna Jankowsky, North District; Theresia Fauster, South District. Sister Smith reports: "Our mission has recently been divided into four member districts. The picture was taken during a recent conference in Vienna, at which the main feature was a planning session for the coming year's activities. The opportunity to meet aS a group once a year has proven beneficial to all districts, since the sisters can discuss common problems and their solutions, as well as share testimonies and enthusiasm for their callings. We all look forward to these conferences as a source of spiritual revitalization. I will miss the saints very much since we are being released." Frieda Marie Huxhold Loscher is the recently appointed Relief Society President. 850 NOVEMBER 1963 L9 i b7 - a Cincinnati Stake (Ohio) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 13, 1963 Front row, left to right: Phyllis Laney (who has served ten and one-half years); Angelina Jerdon (eighteen years); Ann Wells (eleven years); Hazel Stroup (ten years); Rosa Ban (fifty-two years); Adeline Taylor (twenty years). Second row, left to right: Connie Ban (twelve years); Erma Wolf (nineteen years); Doris Hunt (ten years). Back row, left to right: Juanita Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society (ten years service as a visiting teacher); Ollie Ferris (twelve years). The total years of the service of this group of visiting teachers is 184! Years. Sister Laurents reports: "We feel that this convention was very successful in that it inspired the leaders of our ward Relief Societies to make greater efforts in the visiting teacher program. The wards have many problems to overcome. There are many miles between the homes of most of the saints. Some of the visiting teachers have to travel 100 miles total distance to do their visiting teaching. Many of the sisters do not drive, and most of them have small children. There are some wonderful faith-promoting experiences to be learned from those who are faithful to this work, and some of these experiences were pointed out in our convention. One example is the work of Sister Marcella Roberts of the Northern Kentucky Ward. She has walked a distance of from twelve to fifteen miles, for many years, to do her visiting teaching. "Our convention began with a lovely salad luncheon served by the stake board. It was buffet style. Our tables were beautifully decorated by the sisters of the Cincinnati Second Ward. They used green candle holders filled with yellow daffodils, accented with green satin ribbon, as centerpieces. "After the luncheon, the film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, and a program given. The two visiting teachers who have served the longest, and are now serving, were honored. They were presented with Relief Society pins by the stake Relief Society president. Lillie McGee, who has served for twenty-two years, and Rosa Bang, who has served for fifty-two years, were the recipients of these pins. Sister Bang gave a talk on 'The Blessings That Have Come to Me As a Visiting Teacher.' "The Responsibilities of a Visiting Teacher' was the subject of the stake Relief Society president's talk. An appropriate musical number, beautifully rendered, by one of our visiting teachers, was given." 852 THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:7-35) For First Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children, INTRODUCTION Four elders, one of whom was Orson Hyde, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith that they might learn the mind of the Lord concerning themselves. With the assurance that Elder Hyde and the other elders named would be sustained by the Lord in their missionary work as they faithfully fulfilled their callings, it was revealed that there should be no fear in their hearts. They were to declare their testimony of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God who is yet to come in glory on the earth. MISSIONARY MESSAGE All the faithful elders of the Church are to teach the testimony of Christ and the way that men may accept him as their Savior — by the first principles and ordinances of the gospel. As the disciples of the meridian dispensation were commanded to go into all the world with the message of faith, repentance, baptism in water, and the baptism of the Spirit, so also the elders of this dispensation are to carry the same message. (Matt. 28:19-20; D & C 68:7-9.) 'The promise is given that the elders so endowed with that Spirit would be blessed with signs, and they would also know of the signs of the times that herald the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., verses 10-11.) The saints will know the meaning of the times because the Lord has been kind to us and to all men who will believe the prophets. He who is wise in being forewarned will follow the path of safety by so living that he shall have the companionship of the Holy Ghost that gives 853 NOVEMBER 1963 peace, comfort, and a sense of security. The world may not recognize the signs that announce the imminence of the Lord's second coming, but Latter-day Saints have reason to neither disbelieve nor fail to understand their importance. In terms of missionary obligation President Heber J. Grant said: The one supreme thing that devolves upon me, upon you and upon every Latterday Saint is the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in public and in private, and above all to proclaim the gospel in our lives, by being absolutely honest in keeping the commandments of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1926, page 6). THE OFFICE OF BISHOP The first instruction given that bishops would be a part of the Church organization in this dispensation is found in Section 20:66-67, although these officers are mentioned as officiating in the Church during the time of the New Testament. (Phil. 1:1; Titus 1:7.) Edward Partridge became the first bishop, his appointment being made at the time of the introduction of the law of consecration in 1831. (D & C 41:9; 57:7.) Other bishops and counselors in the bishopric, as well as agents of the Church such as Algernon S. Gilbert (Ibid., 53:4) were appointed as the need arose. At this early period Bishop Partridge presided in Missouri while Bishop Newel K. Whitney officiated in a similar capacity at Kirtland, Ohio. (Ibid., 72:8.) As Paul said anciently, he who serves as bishop is in a good work. (I Tim. 3:1.) President George Albert Smith said this about such a call: 854... There is no position in the Church that will bring a greater blessing to any man than the office of a bishop, if he will honor that office and be a real father to the flock over whom he is called to preside.... I have followed them and seen what their experiences were; they have a very great responsibility, and it takes a lot of their time. But I want to say to you that there is no bishop, nor has there been a bishop in the Church, who has given the time that the Lord expected him to give in looking after the flock and teaching his people and preparing them to do the work, that has not received one hundred percent of the blessings that he labored for, and they will extend to him throughout the ages of eternity. He may not have had wealth, may not have had distinction. He may not have had the honor of presiding over clubs and things of that kind, but if he has done his duty as a bishop, he has been hand in hand with the Father of us all, and everything that he has done to bless his kind is laid up as a treasure in heaven and nobody can take the blessing from him (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 186-187). BISHOPRIC APPOINTMENTS The office of bishop and calls thereto are stated in Section 68 following the missionary call of the elders mentioned in verse 7. As the Church grew, additional workers were called to take care of the temporal concerns of the members and the Church. (Ibid., 68:14.) These brethren were to be worthy high priests and appointed by the First Presidency. (Ibid., verse 15.) It is explained that a high priest has authority to officiate in all lesser offices of the Melchizedek Priesthood including that of bishop which holds the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:13-15.) Since the Aaronic Priesthood is an ap- | pendage to the Melchizedek Priesthood, the elder or high priest may officiate in the offices of that Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:10.) Thus a ward bishop presides over the Aaronic Priesthood of his ward by reason of his ordination and setting apart as the president of the Aaronic Priesthood, and, at the same time, he presides over the Melchizedek Priesthood members of his ward, but not the quorum, because he is a high priest. LITERAL DESCENDANTS From the time of Adam into Moses' period the Higher Priesthood functioned. In the days of Moses, however, Aaron and his sons were set apart as priests in the Aaronic Priesthood which was named for Aaron. This Priesthood was conferred upon Aaron and his descendants for all time. (D & C 107:13.) We learn in Section 68 that the seed of Aaron have a legal right to the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood, provided the individual is the firstborn among the sons of Aaron and thus by birthright has the right of presidency. (Ibid., verses 16-17.) When no literal descendant can be found, and up to this time he has not been found, a high priest officiates as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. In the event a lineal descendant were available he would have to receive the requirements set forth in this revelation; that is, he would have to receive the same kind of a call as all other officers in the Church. The claimant to this presidency would have to be designated by the First Presidency and ordained by that Presidency, if he was worthy. A further limitation is put upon LESSON DEPARTMENT such a person in that it would be necessary for him to prove his lineage or to ascertain it "by revelation from the Lord" under the hands of the Presidency of the Church. (Ibid., verses 19-21.) 'These provisions again remind us that the Lord's house is one of order. It would be impossible for the membership of the Church to be deceived in accepting a deceiver who would lay claim to this Priesthood. Subsequently, the Lord revealed that the literal descendant, properly appointed, could act without counselors. (Ibid., 107:76.) Another item concerning the Presiding Bishop given in Section 68 concerns the trial of that officer. Verses 22 through 24 specify that the First Presidency may try him for his membership. The ward bishop is not in the same position, since he may be tried by the presidency of the stake under whose jurisdiction he serves, because he does not hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood for the Church as does the Presiding Bishop. MARRIAGE AND PARENTHOOD Marriage and parenthood are commanded of the Lord as necessary to fulfill the purpose of man's creation and also that of the earth. Those who maintain that marriage is not intended by God are not of him. In the foreordained plan of salvation, the spirit sons and daughters of God were destined to come to the earth and receive the experiences that an earth life offers. (D&C 49:15-17.) 'The assumption of parenthood by husband and_ wife entails an obligation of the most sacred kind. When one contem- 855 NOVEMBER 1963 plates in what measure the blessings or punishments to be received by children in the eternities to come depend upon the training and teachings given by the parents, the tremendous responsibility of parenthood is better realized. OFT-QUOTED SCRIPTURE Because of this responsibility the General Authorities throughout this dispensation have given emphasis to these verses: And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy (D & C 68:25-29). A summary of this commandment concerning parents and children includes the following: Parents are obligated (1) to teach their children the first principles and ordinances of the gospel; (2) to have their children baptized at the age of accountability — eight years of age; (3) to teach prayer; (4) to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord; and (s) to teach observance of the Sabbath day. What do mean? These admonitions 856 FIRST PRINCIPLES Although faith is one of the first principles of the gospel, it is a gift that may grow as the person develops in understanding and practice of gospel principles. To nurture faith in the child, preparation must be made early when the greatest development comes to the individual. Accordingly, the parent teaches the fundamental principles of faith in Christ, of repentance, of baptism in water, and of the necessity for the Holy Ghost in the person's life. Although the Primary Association has some responsibility to prepare children for baptism, and the Sunday School assists, the first principle remains — the parents are responsible and are never relieved of this responsibility. BAPTISM OF CHILDREN Section 68 sets forth in plain language that eight years is the age of accountability. Before this time the child is blameless before the Lord (Ibid., 29:46-47), and is saved in the kingdom of heaven. Before the age of eight, the child is of that kingdom. (Mark 10:13-16.) The two main purposes of baptism are to receive entrance into the kingdom of God, and to receive remission of sins. In the case of the child, baptism insures full membership in the kingdom, and the opportunity for the remission of sins upon repentance. (D & C 68:27.) If the person at eight or later does not accept the atonement of Christ for individual sins committed after that age, he remains in the bondage of sin. (Ibid., 84:49-53.) By baptism of the water and the Spirit the door ls opened for the person to have the benefits of the atonement of Christ for personal sins through sincere and genuine repentance. (Lesson 49, Relief Society Magazine, July 1963.) There is a class of children and adults who do not require baptism. These are the mentally deficient, for the atonement of Christ satisfies the demand of justice and redeems them without baptism. (D & C 29:49-50; Moroni 8:22; Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959, page 689. ) TEACH PRAYER Fundamental to belief in God and the restoration of the gospel through Joseph Smith is daily prayer. There is probably no one thing that will destroy reverence for Deity and a spiritual life more than to neglect the opportunity to pray. The investigator of the gospel is requested by the missionary to pray that he might learn the truth. 'The indoctrination of children in the habit of prayer will, in a large measure, keep them from error and give testimony growth. Prayer must, however, be meaningful in words and sincere in thought. 'The whole heart is demanded of him who seeks for divine guidance as well as the offering of gratitude for blessings received. If you pray for your needs, then, as President Joseph F. Smith said,. You pray with intelligence; you pray with understanding; you approach the Lord with a knowledge of what you should do, and how you should approach Him, and how you have a right to ask Him for the blessings you need, even to the laying on of hands upon the sick, praying for them, and rebuking disease, that they may be healed under the blessing of the Lord; and that the world does LESSON DEPARTMENT not possess (Conference Report, April 1912, page 8). "TO WALK UPRIGHTLY" Who should teach the children right and wrong, of the blessings that follow virtue, honesty, respect for authority, honor, loyalty to Church and country, attendance at Church meetings, the doctrines of the gospel, faith in the standard works of the Church, obedience to the law of tithing, Word of Wisdom, and temple marriage? Here is what President David O. McKay says that bears upon this question: You may think me extreme, but I am going to say that a married woman who refuses to assume the responsibilities of motherhood, or who, having children, neglects them for pleasure or social prestige, is recreant to the highest calling and privilege of womankind. The father, who because of business or political or social responsibilities, fails to share with his wife the responsibilities of rearing his sons and daughters, is untrue to his marital obligations, is a negative element in what might be and should be a joyous home atmosphere, and is a possible contributor to discord and delinquency (Gospel Ideals, page 477). SABBATH DAY OBSERVANCE As always, the best teaching is by example. How can the parents expect the child to observe the commandments, including the keeping of the Sabbath day holy, and at the some time desecrate that day themselves? The importance of observing this holy day is given emphasis in Section 59 (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962) and also in this section, verse 29. Although given about the instruction of children, the admonition is for all the inhabitants of Zion. 857 NOVEMBER 1963 THE RICHES OF ETERNITY The condition of some of the saints in Zion (Missouri) in 1831 is depicted as idle, greedy, and with their children growing up in wickedness. (D & C 68:30-31.) We cannot put ourselves back in 1831, but there was a need for the instructions given then concerning parents and children as outlined in this revelation. With the stepped-up opportunities for wickedness resulting from the automobiles, movies—in and out of the home — false philosophies and theories, the youth of today and the parents may now have greater need for attention to this revelation than in 1831. The counsel of the Lord based upon the perspective of the eternities is: seek earnestly for the riches of eternity (D & C 68:31), and you shall find joy and peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come, for I "shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers" (Ibid., 112:10). Remember, "These sayings are true and faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither take therefrom" (Ibid., 68:34). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what way can the member of the Church sustain his bishop? 2. Name the five things brought out in Section 68:25-29 concerning the obligation of parents to children. Briefly tell something about each one of them. 3. Why should the Latter-day Saint take the attitude that there is no need to fear in this world of uncertainty and unrest? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 53 —"And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray, and to Walk Uprightly Before the Lord" (D & C 68:28). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To emphasize the basic fact that children reared in righteousness are among life's choicest blessings. Cornewi, daughter of the famous Roman leader Africanus who lived during the second century B. C., was renowned for her great beauty, her wealth, and her priceless jewels. On one occasion when distinguished visitors came to her home, a request was made that they might see some 858 of her most valuable jewels. She excused herself for a moment and returned with her two small sons saying, "These are my most precious jewels." Cornelia reared these sons so well that they both became revered leaders in their country. When a monu- ment was being erected for Gaius Gracchus, one of her distinguished sons, he was asked what inscription should be engraved on the statue for future generations to remember. He responded, "Simply inscribe 'Gracchus son of Cornelia.' " Without doubt, the gift of children constitutes the richest blessing, and at the same time, the greatest responsibility, that come into parents' lives. From Adam's time onward our Father in heaven has reminded us of this great blessing and responsibility and has repeatedly admonished us to teach these children, "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." To Adam the Lord said "Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children" (Moses 6:58). Although teaching our children "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord" has always been of great importance, it probably has never been more urgent than it is today. We live in a fast-moving, complicated world full of pressures, which tend to pull parents and children apart and to encourage children to depart from righteous principles. Satan has never worked harder to enslave and to ensnare. With perverse advertisements and enticements he is working overtime on our youth, Solomon said, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Undoubtedly, as stated in this scripture, if a child is taught righteousness from birth, he will most likely be a follower of nghteousness always. In the teaching of our children we LESSON DEPARTMENT should remember that they learn best from example and experience. The example we set for them is, without doubt, one of their most forceful motivators to action. If we expect our children to live uprightly, we must set the example of upright and righteous lives. "A father and a little son crossed a rough street one stormy day. 'See, Father,' said the little one, 'I stepped in your steps all the way.' " Experience, too, is a great and effective teacher. If we want prayer to become a fundamental part of our children's lives, we should give them regular opportunities to pray as they grow up. We should kneel with them regularly morning and night, so that prayers will become a part of their very lives. Let us give our children continuous opportunities to express thanks for and ask blessings upon the food. By all means let us all kneel regularly with our children in family prayer. If we are really wise parents we will, through example and experience, teach our children to have faith in our Father in heaven and to counsel with him constantly in all of their hopes, desires, and problems. Love is a fundamental part of righteous teaching. 'The love, consideration, understanding, and interest we consistently show our children, will do much to help them set righteous foundations upon which they will build their lives. Also, as a fundamental part of upright training, we should teach our children to be good citizens and love their fellow men. No effort or activity in our whole lives will bring us such rich dividends as the teaching of righteous- 859 NOVEMBER 1963 ness to our children. In the words of Solomon, "The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him" (Proverbs 23:24). Surely, one of the greatest joys in life is to see our children walk uprightly before the Lord. Od WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 13 — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To make the home a beautiful setting conducive to various types of family activities. Tue ancient Israelites wrote signs on the posts and gates of their houses to let everyone know that people who believed in God occupied these dwellings. Our forebears of the last century didn't write word signs for this purpose, but there were many signs in Mormon villages where fences were mended, wood was piled up neatly for the winter, houses and barns, no matter of what material — log or stone — were in good repair. 'There was usually plenty of family activity to indicate that planning extended beyond the needs of this day, this month, or this vear. Belief in God and in eternal values was evidenced in the training of children as families worked together to make their homes a heaven on earth. Today the "remnant" of ancient 860 Israel is scattered throughout the world, with nonbelievers on every side. In some areas, multiple housing and suburban living are replacing the family farm. Our problem is: how can the family work together to take care of today's needs and provide a setting conducive to the development of each individual — a setting so strong in its influence that without words written on gates or posts, it will tell the world what manner of people live inside? If you follow the great tradition of the past, you will answer this question by putting your roots down in any place you may live, no matter for how brief a stay or whether you own or rent, leaving it better than you found it. You may have heard people apologize for the bad condition of their living quarters by saying, "We are only renting, so we don't want to spend any money, time, or effort on this place because it belongs to the landlord," or "We plan to move in a few months, so there is no point in doing anything to the house or yard." One can become so conditioned to squalor, ugliness, filth, disrepair, and disorder that the eyes no longer see and the mind no longer perceives anything better. To save yourself from this sad plight, it is important to stand off away from where you live and look at what you call "home" critically. Does it express your ideal of an appropriate setting for your family? Is there anything about the place that lifts your soul? Do you sense order, cleanliness, integrity, fair dealing, kindness, and reverence from the appearance? Is there a certain individuality about the place that bespeaks your way of life? After your critical appraisal, make a list of what should be done and plan to involve the whole family in making improvements. One family decided that the house needed paint, so a project was planned that required the help of all six of the offspring. The small children cleaned up and painted the screens. The older children, who could use ladders, helped with scraping off old paint and put on the primer. The adults did the finish coat. The work could have been criticized by a professional painter, but if the family had had to wait until they had money enough to hire it done, they would have missed the excitement of bringing about the transformation and the fun of working and planning together. Other projects followed. Books about LESSON DEPARTMENT landscaping were borrowed from the library, and a plan for some trees, shrubs, and flowers was developed. Cuttings were obtained from neighbors and relatives, and it wasn't long until the house became more rooted to the site, and, through the loving care of each member, it started to express the ideals and aspirations of the occupants. The children took turns in taking care of the garbage and each was responsible for putting play equipment under cover after use. A swing was hung in the back yard. A sandbox was provided. A picnic table was constructed, and so many new projects grew out of what had thus far been accomplished that no longer was there the problem of children always wanting to go some place else — to them, there was no place quite like home. A young couple just starting out in marriage went to Tokyo to serve in the Armed Forces. They had imagined their home as a_picturesque Japanese house and garden, but found that they were to be housed in the ugly gray of army barracks. Instead of bemoaning their plight, they did something about it. They painted their front door green and put out a welcome mat. Some trailing vines and other potted plants were grouped on either side of the doorway. A low bench with a gay cover tacked on provided a place to sit down and take off one's shoes before entering. There was promise of something even more interesting inside, and the lucky ones who had the privilege of entering were not disappointed. A Japanese fish net, shells from the seashore, some Japanese prints, and seasonal flower ar- $61 NOVEMBER 1963 rangements made one forget completely the ugly army barracks seen from the outside. This was the setting for the birth of their first child, and the setting where they learned to plan and work together to make LITERATURE @ Here was a Latter-day America's Literature a place better than they found it. Saint home that had its label written on the doorway through other symbols than words. What label do you have on your doorway? Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 825-833) For Third Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry. The poems included in this lesson are from Complete Poems of Robert Frost, Copyright 1923, 1928, 1930, 1939, by Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc., Copyright 1936 by Robert Frost. Copyright renewed 1951, (c) 1956, by Robert Frost. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc. Te death in February 1963 of the poet Robert Frost, a four-time Pulitzer prize winner, removed from the list of living American literary artists, a man of no mean accomplishment. He, together with Carl Sandburg and T. S. Eliot, supplied the extreme diversity in poetical composition which reflects the American image. It is found complete in no one writer alone. While Eliot has enjoyed by far the greatest influence as nucleus of the sophisticated "modern" school of criticism and poetry, by comparison Sandburg and Frost have come to be considered 862 as old-fashioned affirmers who write of the people and to the people — literary outlaws they are, more bluntly stated. Yet, pervasive and fashionable though the Eliot school has been for over thirty years, it is Sandburg and Frost whom many have loved and honored, possibly because these two old-fashioned "moderns" have written poetry which is more understandable, and because, in turn, they have loved and championed the virtues of plain, average Americans. "Ends and beginnings — there are no such things." The best proof that this Frostian statement is an enduring truth lies in Frost himself. Most fittingly he exemplifies the timeless qualities in which he placed his trust, both as man and as poet. And, in complete independence of both well-wishers and scorers, he ignored contemporary literary patterns and fads as he carefully built his poems to contain the form and tone which he felt were true to themselves as poetry, as well as to the stony integrity of their maker. "The land is always in my bones," wrote Frost. And, he might have added, so are poetry, puckish wit, and a sustained high regard for the simplicity of greatness as exemplified in his companions, Homer, Theocritus, Dante, Milton, and Shakespeare. He shared these masters in his stimulating talking and teaching which was frame to his body, as light to his mind, and hope to his soul. INTRODUCING FROST Descendant of nine generations of staunch New England folk, Robert Lee Frost was named in honor of General Robert E. Lee, his father William Frost's personal hero. Robert was born in San _ Francisco March 26, 1874, less than a decade after Lee's surrender at Appomattox. When his father died he left a wife, two children, a life insurance policy with its last premium recently unpaid, and a request that he be buried in New England soil. His request was honored by his resourceful Scotch wife. Having no money nor near kin of her own, she took her children to Lawrence, LESSON DEPARTMENT Massachusetts, where the grandfather, a foreman in the textile mills, reluctantly welcomed them ("We were the hole in the bucket," Frost recalled as an adult). At once his mother put her excellent classical education to good use by becoming a teacher while Robert went to work in the mill, always carrying Shakespeare or Virgil in his back pocket to read during his lunch hour. After being co-valedictorian with his future wife and after seven years of odd jobs, Robert attended Dartmouth college for two months, but so disliked the methods and content of formal education that he quit. After his marriage, he attended Harvard University for two years before he abandoned all hope of ever getting an education and returned to farming and teaching, but really to writing poetry, his full, real love. When his grandfather advanced the $1,800 to buy him a one-horse, oneman farm of thirty run-down acres, he said to young Frost, "I know what you're up to [he meant poetry]. Will you settle down if I give you a year to try this out?" Frost struck a great auctioneer's pose and dared him with, "Give me twenty, give me twenty!" And that is just what it took. THE EMERGING POET During his restless college years, Frost frequently took solitary walks in the woods, which disconcerted his classmates. "What do you do on your walks?" they asked. "I gnaw wood," Frost replied. Thus, the poet Frost ever felt the need to renew himself in solitude, that his inner voice might sing truly and that he might be alert to his own 863 NOVEMBER 1963 "imnerness" and record it. In Vermont he felt he was getting nowhere. He had published but a few poems and had no association with other poets or professional literary persons. Although at thirty-eight he was described by the State superintendent of schools as the best teacher in the State, Frost wanted to be the best poet. Staking everything on his dangerous experiment, Robert sold his farm in 1912 and moved his wife and four children to a peaceful farm not far from London, England. In England he met other young poets who believed in him, predicting the quiet but substantial success of his first slender book of poems A Boy's Will, which was published in London the following year. In 1914 his publication North of Boston was praised by eminent critics both in England and im tiie United States' In 1915 he risked the hazards of submarine attack to bring his family home to a new farm at Franconia, New Hampshire. Frost was already famous. From then until 1949, when his Complete Poems appeared, published several books of poems, four of which received the Pulitzer Prize fox literary excellence, the only American to be so honored. In addition to being given almost forty honorary doctorates by distinguished universities in his own country and the British Isles, he was the only poet ever to have participated in the inauguration of the President of the United States. This occurred on January 20, 1961. FROST, THE TEACHER In 1915 his success as a poet became assured, and he still hoped to 864 make his living solely from poetry; however, it became apparent that royalties from his book sales would: not be enough. It was in 1917 that President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College took the daring step of making Robert Frost a full professor and the first Artist in Residence in. Any university — all without Frost's even having graduated from college. In addition to founding the Breadloaf School of English in 1920, Mr. Frost lived and lectured intermittently at Amherst, Michigan, Dartmouth, Harvard, and, before the exertion became too great, read his poems on the campuses of the great universities of the Nation. But whether lecturing to an audience or in the classroom, he was always a great teacher in action. Seeking always to influence and excite rather than to persuade, he defined himself as a "sort of poetic radiator." Acting on his solid conviction that "courage is the human virtue that counts most" he had the regular textbooks stored in the _ basement while he led his students in the lifelong activity of discovering new relationships between books of Plato, Gibbon, and the myriad phases of life surrounding a growing boy. To be "daringly good" as a teacher, he strove to teach his students the supreme import of "two | minimal things: taste and judg: ment," these being dependent upon imagination, initiative, enthusiasm, inspiration, and originality, first in the teacher, then by infection, in the students. A man of fire who vastly preferred an informal discussion in the front room of his home to stiff class sessions, he constantly | forced his students to defend things as they are, and to question why a change wouldn't be better. Gentle, kind, and understanding, nevertheless he was always careful not to let the routines of teaching submerge his untrammelled, poetic self. He preached as earnestly as he practiced. An English teacher has three prime duties: first, duty to self; second, duty to books; third, duty to students. For example, in several instances during his teaching career, Frost entered the classroom to find his desk piled high with required themes. "Anything here anyone wants to keep?" They shook their heads "no." So I asked them again and they said "no" again. "All nght. If you don't value them enough to keep them, I don't value them enough to want to read them," and | threw them all into the wastepaper basket. "Tm no perfunctory reader of perfunctory writing" (SARGEANT, ExizaBeru S.: Trial By Existence, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, page 71. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). Of such stuff are great teachers made, whether it be in 1912 or 1982. FROST, THE CRAFTSMAN For Frost, poetry was nothing if it was not true. He never wrote a poem which was not based on actual experience. "A poet must lean hard on facts, so hard, sometimes, that they hurt." Though generally credited with the ability to capture in his poems the actual speech of tural New England, Frost aimed at far more than merely mirroring actuality; for him the rhyme of phrase and sentence must have the LESSON DEPARTMENT "sound of sense." If the words rang right, the form then fit its contained subject matter and the poem, as an organic whole, "begins in delight and ends in wisdom." FAVORITE POEMS In June 1922, Frost returned to his Vermont farm after a long teaching session at the University of Michigan. In one of the great poetic experiences of his life, he stayed up all night 'composing his long philosophical poem, "New Hampshire." Stepping outside to stretch and greet the dawn, Frost wheeled back inside and in "one stroke of the pen" wrote one of the loveliest lyrics in the English language, a poem in which form and content seem perfectly suited to each other: STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING Whose woods these are I think I know. His house is in the village though; He will not see me stopping here To watch his woods fill up with snow. My little horse must think it queer To stop without a farmhouse near Between the woods and frozen lake The darkest evening of the year. He gives his harness bell a shake To ask if there is some mistake. The only other sound's the sweep Of easy wind and downy flake. The woods are lovely, dark and deep, But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep. (Complete Poems of Robert Frost, page 275). As do many of Frost's poems, this one exemplifies the classic graces 865 NOVEMBER 1963 which Frost esteemed: an easy gentleness, both of word and structure; the simplest of words and subject, all flawlessly contained within a traditional rhyme scheme and stanza pattern. Yet, at the poem's end, all we know for certain is that the poem is not merely about a momentary pause of horse and man in an empty wood before driving on. Frost believed in the great importance of permitting every person to get from a poem whatever he can, and that it is far more important to learn to enjoy a poem than it is to analyze and criticize it almost to pieces, until the magic which is poetry is bedraggled, if not de stroyed. Nor does the above poem relate to any specific region or folk. Though we may feel in our bones how completely Frost has absorbed the New England scene and idiom in his, rarely if ever do his characters speak in a peculiarly New England cracker-barrel dialect. He "speaks New Englandly" only to recall a subject incident or conversation, then, by giving it the soundsense and form which make it into poetry, he makes it speak universally, not regionally. What is more of one place, yet of no certain place than the poem he chose to be first in his Complete Poems? It appeals as strongly to a preschool child as to the city-bound adult longing for the pristine beauties of a country boyhood: THE PASTURE I'm going out to clean the pasture spring; I'll only stop to rake the leaves away (And wait to watch the water clear, | may ): I shan't be gone long. — You come too. 866 I'm going out to fetch the little calf That's standing by the mother. It's so young It totters when she licks it with her tongue. I shan't be gone long. — You come too. (Ibid., page 1). Though increasingly through the years Frost's growing concern was with the crushing impacts big cities, industrialization, science, mass communication and mass government, education and religion were exerting on himself and the people of his time, his "lover's quarrel with the world" was less the enduring Frost than his expressions of love and trust. "We love the things we love for what they are" represents him as do the poems which radiate such — a love: "Tuft of Flowers' (text, page 826); "Death of the Hired Man" (page 827); "Mending Wall" (page 829); "Birches"; "The Road Not Taken" (page 831); "Iwo Look at Two"; "There are Roughly Zones" (page 832); "The Runaway"; and many many more. Nor should we forget that he is master of humor, and sometimes a rather grim irony, as seen in "Out, Out'; "Home Burial'; "Not to Keep'; Fire and Ice"; and "Departmental." Two of Frost's poems particularly deserve to be better known. The first is one of the very few poems Frost wrote which admits he has lived a city life along with many of us. ACQUAINTED WITH THE NIGHT I have been one acquainted with the night. I have walked out in rain — and back in rain. I have outwalked the furthest city light. I have looked down the saddest city lane. I have passed by the watchman on his beat And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. I have stood still and stopped the sound of feet When far away an interrupted cry Came over houses from another street, But not to call me back or say good-by; And further still at an unearthly height, One luminary clock against the sky Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right. I have been one acquainted with the night (Ibid., page 324). The second poem, "Desert Places," is saturate with the tone colors which are peculiarly Frost's own. Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fast In a field I looked into going past, And the ground almost covered smooth in snow, But a few weeds and stubble showing last. The woods around it have it — it is theirs. All animals are smothered in their lairs. I am too absent-spirited to count; The loneliness includes me unawares. And lonely as it is that loneliness Will be more lonely ere it will be less — A blanker whiteness of benighted snow With no expression, nothing to express. They cannot scare me with their empty spaces Between stars — on stars where no human race is. I have it in me so much nearer home To scare myself with my own desert places. (Ibid., page 386). ' popularity? LESSON DEPARTMENT Restrained yet lyical, simple yet profound, set in his own tone and sentence cadence, and yet belonging to none, to all, provincial yet transcending itself into universal — in sum, poetry which penetrates us we know not how — this is Frost's "Tree at My Window," which finally represents him: Tree at my window, window tree, My sash is lowered when night comes on; But let there never be curtain drawn Between you and me. Vague dream-head lifted out of the ground, And thing next most diffuse to cloud, Not all your light tongues talking aloud Could be profound. But, tree, I have seen you taken and tossed, And if you have seen me when I slept, You have seen me when I was taken and swept And all but lost. That day she put our heads together, Fate had her imagination about her, Your head so much concerned with outer, Mine with mner, weather. (Ibid., page 318). THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Discuss Frost as a poet, old-fash. Ioned yet modern. 2. Do you feel Frost to be more a representative New England or an American poet? 3. How do you account for his wide In your opinion what quality or qualities in his work are most enjoyable, most valuable? 867 SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 11 — Quorum Relationships to Wards and Stakes Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To clarify tion of Church government. When the men _ holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (RupcER CLawson, quoted by Joun A. Wiptsor, Priesthood and Church Government, page III).... The Lord never did anything that was not essential or that was superfluous. There is a use for every branch of the Priesthood that he has established in his Church. We want every man to learn his duty, and we expect every man will do his duty as faithfully as he knows how, and carry off his portion of the responsibility of building up Zion in the latter days (Smitn, JosEpH F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 edition, page 177). THE BEGINNING OF ORDERLY DEVELOPMENT From the time Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the Pnesthood in 1829, they had the responsibility of developing an organization that would meet the requirements of the revealed gospel. The effectiveness of the operation of the plan of salvation required an efficient organization. 868 the working relationships of Priesthood quorums to the opera- 1. For the Perfection of the Saints. From time to time, upon the petition of the Prophet, revelation was received that opened the way for the establishment of the essential structure of Church government. In the 107th and 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord revealed, among other things, the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood and their place in Church | organization and government. In the 143d verse of Section 124 the} Lord said, "The above offices I have given unto you, and the keys thereof, for helps and for governments, for the work of the ministry and the perfecting of my saints." In this statement we are again reminded that the divine program has as its purpose the welfare of mankind. Every revelation, every office established, and every operation of Church government is designed to help carry out this purpose. The Lord's wisdom, knowledge, and love are exercised eternally toward the exaltation of his children which ls his glory. When Section 124 was given, the leadership of the Church was struggling with many of the most serious problems in its short history. Persecution of leaders and members was common. The exterminating order of Governor Boggs of Missouri had been issued on October 27, 1838 (see DHC III:175), and the new city of Nauvoo was being planned and constructed. At the same time, the organization and government of the expanding Church membership had to be given strength and development. As the Church population grew, the number of men receiving the Priesthood grew. These two conditions, growth of Church membership and increasing numbers of Priesthood holders, required the development recorded in the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Recognizing that the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to act in God's stead upon the earth and, also, recognizing that in order to lead or participate in Church govemment a man must be called of God by official action of the proper authority, it was necessary to organize Priesthood holders into functioning units. In so doing the relationship between Priesthood calling and the operation or function of a Priesthood quorum member as an authorized officer in the Church was clarified. 2. Differentiation of Authorty. In the 107th and 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants directions are given for organizing the quotums, and specific duties are set up that a quorum member could be directed to perform. It was necessary for quorum members to know that while they had the power to act in LESSON DEPARTMENT God's stead as elders, seventies, or high priests, they could not function in the government of the Church except as they were called by proper authority and sustained by the membership of the Church to minister in a particular office. However, a man may, at any time, exercise the power of the Priesthood for himself and the members of his family, such as administering to the sick. LINES OF AUTHORITY The Priesthood line of authority is that authority which authorizes another to ordain an individual to a calling in the Priesthood (elder, etc.); the ecclesiastical line of authority refers to the officers in charge of opcrations of Church government begining with the President of the Church and including every sustained officer in the government of the Church. Each of the officers in the ecclesiastical line of authority, including the First Presidency, stake presidency, and bishoprics, all function in their offices and receive the keys of their offices by the laying on of hands by those having proper authority. 1. Priesthood Line of Authority. Both lines of authority combine in the President of the Church. He, with his Counselors, constitute the Presidency of the High Priesthood. Peter, James, and John were ordained apostles by Jesus Christ. They, in turn, restored the Melchizedek Priesthood to this earth by ordaining Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. The Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and, through him, to the others who were called 869 NOVEMBER 1963 to serve with him in the organization of the Church, and, through them, to all the others who have held, do now hold, or who will hold the Melchizedek or Aaronic Priesthood in this dispensation of time. Each male member of the Church can trace his Priesthood line of ordination back to the Savior. 2. Ecclesiastical Line of Authority. The President of the Church is called of God to be the Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In order to receive this office, he must hold the Melchizedek Priesthood with the calling of High Priest. He selects his Counselors who are High Priests and the three constitute the Quorum of the First Presidency. This quorum guides and directs the Church, with the help of the Quorum of the Twelve, having as their first responsibility the welfare of the members of the Church both spiritually and temporally. The Lord, speaking to Moses, said, "This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, 1:39). The Church government, under the leadership of the Prophet, is set up to accomplish this purpose. The authority to preside and conduct the organization of the Church is in the hands of the First Presidency, who operate the over-all government of the Church through the General Authorities. This group operates through the stake presidents and counselors. 'The stake presidency functions through the bishops of the wards and presidents of branches. The operation of a branch is similar to a ward. The 870 branch president may be an elder, but functions similarly to a bishop. Branch is the title given to the smaller units of Church organization. Independent branches have a presidency and function similarly to a ward. Dependent branches are part of an independent branch with authorized officers who carry out as much of the program of the Church as is practicable because of the scattered condition of the membership. All records and reports are made a part of the record of the independent branch to which the dependent branch belongs. The bishopric is the head of the Aaronic Priesthood in the ward in addition to being responsible for every member of the Church within C the boundary of the ward. This basic unit of the Church is the center of growth and development of the membership. By a commandment of the Lord (D & C 133:8-9) missionary work began with the organization of the Church and has continued to be a vital part of Church activity. Our discussion would not be complete without relating the administration of the missions to the government of the Church. The First Presidency select and set apart the mission president, and he receives his instructions from them and reports to them. The mission president has two counselors whom he selects with the approval of the First Presidency. The first counselor assists the mission president with the supervision of the saints (mission board, auxiliaries, districts, branches, Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood, and _ part-time missionary program), and the sec- ond counselor assists in the proselyting activities (missionary proselyting and training, teaching elders, supervising elders and missionaries ). THE ORIENTATION OF PRIESTHOOD AUTHORITY The title of the leadership of the Priesthood line of authority is the Presidency of the High Priesthood of the Church. (The ecclesiastical line and the Priesthood line of authority are combined in_ the Quorum of the First Presidency. ) On the stake level, the members of the stake presidency are the presiding high priests of the stake. 'They hold the Priesthood line of authority in the stake and have direct charge of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums in the stake. The stake Priesthood committee, composed of the stake presidency and the high council, are assigned to the supervision of the various quorums within the stake. 'The Seventies Quorum has a dual allegiance to the stake authorities and to the First Council of Seventy. 1. Quorum Members and Their Relation to the Bishop. The ward bishopric have the responsibility -of the welfare, spiritually and otherwise, of each Church member within the ward. 'They do not have charge of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums or Melchizedek Priesthood groups within their ward boundaries. This, as has just been explained, is a function of the stake presidency carried out through the Stake high council. But every quorum member is a member of a ward and, as such, is accountable to his bishop. 2. Quorums and Leadership. The CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES a BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY—Rich 022oo. Oo.. Eee eee eee -25 _— BIRTHDAY OF A KING—Neidlinger -20 oe GESU BAMBINO—Yon.25 aot | WONDER AS I WANDER—Niles 0 25 —_ LET OUR GLADNESS KNOW NO END—Harris 0 -20 a. NEVER WAS A CHILD SO LOVELY—Niles oo. -20 —. NOWELL—Brett 00.0000.16 —_ O HOLY NIGHT—Adam.25 a SILENT NIGHT—Gruber 20 i SING WE NOEL—Ellison.25 veneee STAR OF THE EAST—Kennedy - saa a VIRGIN'S SLUMBER SONG—Reger 0.0000000 00000. -20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated ' \ ' 1 1!; above. I [] On Approval [J Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name _ Address ' \ City and State 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah} NOVEMBER 1963 Priesthood quorums are the training centers for Church leadership. Beginning with the deacons, the quorum activity provides experience in leadership, training in the principles of the gospel, and an experience in fraternalism that gives real significance to the idea of brotherhood in the Priesthood. Quorum membership, therefore, provides the most significant and specific opportunity for the training and preparation of the lay leadership in the Church. 3. The Challenge to the Family. Too often this unit of training leadership (the Priesthood quorums) does not live up to its potential. It may be because the quorum program is taken for granted and, therefore, no effort is put into it, or it may be indifference on the part of the leadership, or it may All of the Numbers for the Relief Society and M. I. A. Are obtainable at —_—- BEESLEY Music (o. 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Weber — Hardman and the Original Cable Pianos 872 be that boys are without the basic home teaching regarding the sacredness of their Priesthood callings. The strength of family influence is in evidence in every phase of Church government. Truly, the family is the basic unit. It is literally the foundation upon which effective and enduring organization depends. Dictators, recognizing the important principal of dedication, go to every extreme to cultivate their ideas of government in the minds of children. Youngsters schooled long enough and intensively enough in communism usually become dedicated to the principles and ideals of communism. The minds of children will re | spond equally well or better to training in righteousness. 'The family in the Church must be dedicated to the idea of training their members in the divine pattern of life beginning in early childhood, interpreting the Lord's way of life through parental leadership. OPERATION OF THE AUXILIARIES The title designating the ecclesiastical head of the Church is the First Presidency. Under } their direction, but through the personal attention of members of the Quorum of the Twelve, the General Boards administer the auxiliary programs of the Church. These programs are set up under the inspiration of Priesthood leadership and are designed to help meet the needs of the various age groups in the development of effective members of the Church. Auxiliary means a help, an aid, or assistance. As the Church grew and expanded its organization, specific assignments were: given to each of the auxiliaries as they were created. 1. The Function of General and Stake Boards. The General Auxiliary Boards present the programs within their assignments to the membership of the Church. The programs are given to a stake auxiliary board which is limited in authority to act within the geographical boundary of the stake and under the direct supervision of the presidency of the stake. The line of ecclesiastical authority is from the stake presidency to the stake auxiliary officers. 2. The Ward, the Base of Operation. In each ward there are auxiliary organizations to work with the Church members in putting into Come See Our New Store Under New Management CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Etc. LESSON DEPARTMENT operation the auxiliary. Programs. This is the area of direct contact with the people of the Church. The ward auxiliary organizations are set up by and under the direct supervision of the bishopric. The bishop, knowing his people, their abilities, strengths, and weaknesses usually provides activity for them according to their preparation. All direction and instruction from the General Auxiliary Boards come through the stake organization to the ward auxiliary workers. 'There is a stake high council member assigned to each stake auxiliary board having the specific responsibility to know the programs of that auxiliary and to keep the stake presidency properly informed of the progress of its program. K. D. NOVELTY DISTRIBUTORS Salt Lake City — 3572 South 1950 West P. O. Box 19009 FREE CATALOGS AVAILABLE CARNIVAL & PARTY GOODS Crepe Paper — Circuits Fish Pond Items — Plates Cups — Table Coverings Balloons — Wigs — Hats Float Materials — Tickets New Year's Party Supplies Trophies — Pennants Tissue Balls, Bells, ete. Fund Raising Ideas Santa Suits — Etc. 873 874 Never in its 80-year history has Zions Savings and Loan failed to pay each savings depositor twice-yearly dividends on his savings savings safely backed by one of the highest reserves-todeposits ratios in Utah. Insured savings earn full 4/2 per year current rate compounded semi-annually 80th Anniversary — Utah's first savings and loan association ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. Ist South — Salt Lake City open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 south State — Murray open Saturdays 'til noon In the ward, the members of the bishopric are assigned to supervise the auxiliary organizations. THE FUNCTION OF CHURCH MEMBERSHIP In the development of his ward organization, the bishop can call to action any and all members of record in his ward. Every Priesthood holder ls subject to the call of the bishop to fill the offices or to perform the necessary committee work of the ward. 1. Willingness to Serve. Every office in the ward, including that of bishop, is filled with voluntary leadership called by proper authority. 'The duty of each family is to teach its members to be willing to accept opportunities for service whenever called upon. They should be taught that it is a privilege as well as a duty to accept a call whenever it comes. Any worthy person who is humble in accepting a calling, willing to work, and who strives for enlightenment and knowledge to assist in the carrying out of the assignment, can, with the help of the Lord, fill successfully the office to which he has been called. Activity is the evidence of faith and responsibility is the generator of loyalty. The President of the Church, the Twelve, or the president of a stake have the authority to call any member of a ward to a Church or stake position. ACTIVITY IN A GOOD CAUSE Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints requires activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. "But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22). There is unlimited opportunity for activity in the Church. There are, among others, four areas of activity in which each member can _participate. (1) Spiritual activity, giving expression to the divine influence in the everyday life of an individual. It is the degree of influence of the Spirit of God that is in our hearts. It is expressed in devotion, meditation, prayer, kind deeds, etc. (2) Intellectual activity, through a constant effort to obtain knowledge of God, of man, and of the world in which we live. The Church has always provided opportunity for learning and has encouraged and stimulated its members to take advantage of it. The concept of perfection as the goal of man is constantly held before the members of the Church. (3) Activity in a material sense, making our time, talents, and wealth available to the Lord for the building of his kingdom. (4) Service — the word itself implies activity — fulfilling a regular assignment in the Church organization. It means doing one's assignment to the best of one's ability; being mindful of the welfare of others; dedicating one's self to the purposes of righteousness, such as relief of suffering and sorrow; sharing one's blessings with those less fortunate; recognizing all men as the children of God, and treating them as brothers. The active person is the happy person and no matter how much is done for others, which includes the Lord, the doer receives the greatest benefit. As we have previously indicated, m ae eee Ce LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE To HAWAIIAN ISLANDS and THE SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) 21 Day Excursion Tours to Europe After Oct. Ist (Save 30% in transportation) THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy (With Dr. T. Edgar LyonMarch 64) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT August 64 (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) Bus-Rail-Air-Ship-Group Tours Round the World (Agent for all Domestic and International Carriers) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience" GOLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 7 Buy now from your dealer C9 ee Or el ROSE PARADE TOUR 9 days — December 27-January 4 Las Vegas, San Diego and Los Angeles Including Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. —_— ROSE PARADE TOUR 10 days — December 27-January 5 Reno, San Francisco and Los Angeles including Hearst Castle, Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. Sa eee Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Build your family's food and water supply with Perma Pak's storage plan! Easy and Economical! Pay as little as $85.00 per family member for a whole year's balanced food supply. Serve each meal at an average cost of about 10c per person! Also, a complete line of camping and survival kits containing foods and supplies. Write today for your FREE Perma-Pak Catalog of low-moisture, low-cost foods. Perma-Pak foods come in both large, No. 10 protector cans for compact storage and in easy-to-carry polycello bags for camping or hunting. Pi=tRViA-PAK 40 East Robert Ave. (2420 So.) Salt Lake City 15, Utah—486-9671 876 the quorum is the unit for training leadership in the Church. The first and most important lesson in leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare to improve one's ability to do something for others and do it very well. Ward membership is the place where this preparation is put into action. The ecclesiastical organization provides every person in the Church with an opportunity for service. The Priesthood leadership must be of the standard that impels both men and women to attain a degree of perfection in each assignment they receive. REFERENCES Doctrine and Covenants, Section 124. TaLMaGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 10. Wiprsoe, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 10; 11; 12. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the difference between ecclesiastical authority and Priesthood authority? How are they related? 2. Why did the Lord arrange for so many different quorums of the Priesthood? 3. Is service to the Church an essential part of quorum training? Explain your answer. 4. What is the importance of the family unit to the success of the Priesthood organization. em Suggestions for L. D. S. Missionaries by Mark Bobertson "I HAVE read this book through caretully and hove been very much inBUY all 3 and get o. 1 FREE! Mu SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR LDS MISSIONARIES — ty 2 Preparation precedes power. Self-training, based on 9 | * | — this one-volume manual, builds memory, concen- = *,._ ~ (CONS ('OY HY _ tration, reasoning, persuasiveness, influence, leading IVP) U ANT _to maximum satisfaction and effectiveness in all R ri) missionary activities. $1.75 0 ajsoseri SMITH AND OUR DESTINY By James H. Anderson The doctrines of Mormonism are being substantiated in our day by the findings and writings of ~non-Mormon students of history and the Bible. This book is a key to the growing body of new documentary evidence. $2.50 GOD'S COVENANT RACE The recorded promises of God to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph and Ephraim are the basis for every claim of divine power and priesthood leadership made by Joseph Smith. A new and penetrating view of prophecy, both ancient and modern, is offered by this volume. $2.75 send for them TODAY! Avoid the RUSH! SR ERE ME SE SS SSS SS EARL W. HARMER, Publisher-Editor 1177 Yale Avenue, Salt Lake City 5, Utah Please send copies No. 1 $1.75 postpaid; Enclosed Check or Money Order Please send copies No. 2 $2.50 postpaid Please send copies No.3 $2.75 postpaid (] TOTAL $ 002002 eee noone ececeecceccecececececececececeacecsescsssesssessssssusssecssesussecsesususesesesesesessvitasststiteseetessececeeceteceeestee SPECIAL SPECIAL SPECIAL! DON'T MISS THIS ONE! HAWAII Depart November 5 > ROSE PARADE Leaves December 28 By way of Las Vegas a MEXICO - 1964 _ WORLD'S FAIR - 1964 — Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles._...39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Ome EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 4101. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 878 Ida Elaine James My heart that was a shuttered dark Uncovers to the sun again And worships heaven for the lark That rose the morning after rain. Joy takes the world with rush and leap There is no thing that is not glad; Light floods the morning, after sleep, The frowning wood no longer sad.... 1 will lift my eyes above the sill Where song is soaring, breaking throug Where wings are lifting over the hill To teach my heart to carol, too. Summer Caroline Eyring Miner Sumac reddens the hills, Blushing that it comes so late, But every weed and flower is burgeonir To fulfill its destiny, its fate. It is some inner call That each thing knows: There must be blossoming, seeding, Before the summer goes. EC ing Mildred B. Hall Across the valley floor the sun In golden rays is streaming. The harvest in, the loved ones home; The house with fragrance steamin "Wha Uf The Met 9 What te Alans Wh, Fathers Beaune?" ao RENSER CLARK, oF Christmas Gifts Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 "'Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 879 One Hundred Four Mrs. AsicarL STAWFORD. Cox C Hitchin, Herts ' England Ninetvy-eight Mrs. Maria Prercy Precx Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Jutia ANN ADAMS QUAYLE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvIzABETH THomas SHAW Los Angeles, California Ninety-five Mrs. EL! ZABETH DUNCOMBE BARKER Salt Lake City, Utah t x tur far Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Rowena Murpuy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. OLtveE DRAPER ANDERSON: Nephi, Utah - Mrs. MatitpA STEVENS THORNSBURY Ashland, Kentucky } ling ty three Mrs. Mary Asicatt Pearce THOMAS West Los Angeles, California Mrs. Mary ANDERSON JOHNSON Elsinore, Utah Ninetv-t wo Mrs. LENoRA Hupson SHEFFIELD Cardston, Alberta Canada Mrs. HANNAH CHRISTIANA OSBORNE Ashton, Idaho Mrs. Mary Erma Witson HAnNIEe Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Martua Parks HuLse Salt: Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary ANN Hype MortTeNsEN Ogden, Utah ' Mrs. Netrre Hunt "RENCHER Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Lavinta Mae Winter Woop Fullerton, California Mrs. Carouine P. Larsen Sandy, Utah Ninety Mrs. Harriet P. Woopsury St. George, Utah Mrs. Rose Apams Linpsay Curtis Salt Lake. City, Utah Mrs. Viotet Lunt Urte Cedar City, Utah 'Mrs. Barpara Paur BALLIF Preston, Idaho Mrs. Emma W. DUNKLEY Preston, - Idaho Mrs. SAMANTHA MAncuM Bicknell, Utah Mrs. RuTH HOPEWELL OrTON Hucknall, Nottingham England Mrs. MARGARET KEELER BARRON Ramona, California Miss Lucy M. Wricut Salt Lake City, Utah Miss ELEN WALLACE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Grace BATES Bradenton, Florida TWO NEW VOLUMES FROM DESERET BOOK 1 THE LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, VOLUME | by Roy W. Doxey Roy W. Doxey, author of Doctrine and Covenants and the Future, The Doctrine and Covenants Study Guide, and the Book of Mormon Study Guide, has now compiled this rich, new, and different text offering commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants by General Authorities of the LDS Church. The amplification and illustration of principles of the gospel in modern revelation are by members of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Assistants to the Twelve, the First Council of the Seventy, the Patriarch to the Church, and the Presiding Bishopric. $3.95 2 FASTING — THE SECOND STEP TO ETERNAL LIFE — by Alan P. Johnson Why do we fast? How long should we fast? When should we fast? These and many more questions on fasting are answered in this inspirational volume. The attitudes of various religions toward fasting 1 is also clarified for the reader. Here is a book that every Latter-day Saint will want to read. _ $2.75 iL Deseret Book Deseret Book is Your Headquarters i COMPANY for the 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL | Best in Church Literature. I SALT LAKE CITY iE Order b! 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN €§ raer Oy 777 SO. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA _ il Mail 4 oe ee ae A Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find [_] check [_] money order [| | have an account, please charge. Amount enclosed $ for the encircled numbered books: 1 2 Name. Ce nen e eect eet n bene e ene eens PONBSS cee eee eee etn e renee ene ett tnneeneees City cece eeeCOWe:| Residents of Utah include 3%% sales tax. | Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 
