VOLUME/50° NUMBERS MAY 1963 > a "te, L o 4 3 &.. 3 ey rie, ON nf? B if Kemembrance Grace Barker Wilson The warm flat rock above the stream Was just the place to lie and dream, And watch the flashing rainbow trout In the deep pool weave in and out. The banks bore moss grown violets, And, further back, wild mignonettes Mixed perfume with the scented air Of new green willows growing there. How friendly all that tangled wild — And | was, once, that dreaming child. The Cover: Lake Marraine, Banff National Park, Canada Color Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: 9} Shadow and Sunlight, Near Bountiful, Utah Photograph by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: 9) Dick Scopes tom I don't think anyone could take The Relief Society Magazine out of the mailbox without at least thumbing through it. I always read the From Near and Far page, if I read nothing else immediately. This page makes me feel close to all the sisters in the Church. The first serial I read was "Because of the Word" (by Hazel M. Thomson). I am_ sure this — story strengthened my testimony. The series of articles about the women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith (by Preston Nibley) was wonderful, too. I have been a member of the Church for two years and have had many blessings since being baptized. I enjoyed the recent serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. The visiting teacher messages are full of wisdom. All the sisters I visited said they enjoyed the message about using their time wisely. —Mtrs. Jacqueline Rasmussen Clinton, Iowa I surely do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I carry one or two of them in my big handbag each time I go out in the car with my husband. While in Seattle last week, I read all of the installments. Of the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (January to June 1962). I studied her style, and it delighted me very much. She has a real polish, which makes me think she has written a great deal. —Mrs. Alice Sabin Yakima, Washington We receive with great pleasure each month that periodical The Relief Society Magazine. We feel enthusiastic about this Magazine, with all the interesting and stimulating articles and the beautiful pictures, but, in particular, we rejoice in reading the inspiring and poetic novel "Out of the Wilderness' (by Shirley Thulin, concluded in February 1963). —Anna Marie Vedder Hamburg, Germany 322 Cet com as I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and I especially enjoy the poetry. It gave me much pleasure to see that Christie Lund Coles won the second prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest ("The Home," February 1963). I especially enjoy the poetry by Mrs. Coles and have often quoted her poetry in giving lessons in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in PTA and other places where I have been asked to give talks. —Betty Green San Bernardino, California I was very much impressed with the story "Ihe Home" (by Christie Lund Coles) in the February issue of the Magazine. All of the stories are good, and the Magazine is wonderful, from start to finish. The articles never get old. They can be read time after time, and there is always something new to cherish. I thank all the people who put their time and work and patience into the making of the Magazine. —Mrs. Violet Pierce Gunnison, Utah In the March 1963 issue of the Magazine I enjoyed so much the article "We Can't Be Perfect" by Christie Lund Coles. As In-Service leader of our ward Primary, I am planning for each teacher to have a copy of this article. —Mrs. John J. Merrill Logan, Utah I would like to thank you for the very lovely Magazine we are so privileged to receive in Our homes every month. I enjoy every page, and have particularly looked forward to the serial story "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and the work meeting lessons on "The Latter-day Saint Home," which are so helpful (by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler). —Ruth Pepper Corrimal East N. S. W., Australia

The Relief society Magazine VOL. 50 MAY 1963 NO. 5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES 324 My Mother — A Homemaker and Character Builder Elna P. Haymond 332 Contest Announcements 1963 336 Portrait of Life Helen Hinckley Jones 348 Night Sky Ora Pate Stewart 378 Magazine Honor Roll for 1962 Marianne C. Sharp FICTION 339 Battalion Hazel K. Todd 354 The Inside of the Cup Nellie I. Cox 372 Keep My Own — Chapter 5 Kit Linford GENERAL FEATURES 322 From Near and Far $46 Editorial: Eternal Eamings in Twenty-four Hours Marianne C. Sharp 349 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 390 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 400 Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME 350 Early Years Are a Mother's Glory Leona Fetzer Wintch 351 Too Busy? Annella Barnes 352 So Long for Dreaming Verda F. Welch 360 As the Heart Grows Leola Seely Anderson 364 Love in a Lunch Sack Janet W. Breeze 366 Magic in Your Vinegar Bottle Margaret F. Maxwell 367 Ham-Noodle Scallop Casserole Anna Marie Astle 367 Sugar Cookies Myrtle E. Henderson 368 Pancakes With an International Accent Margaret F. Maxwell 370 Shirt Tales Shirley Thulin 377 Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen — 'Sewing Sisters'' POETRY 321 Remembrance — Frontispiece Grace Barker Wilson Echo, by Rosa Lee Lloyd, 334; Tree Love, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 335; Season of the Heart, by Lael W. Hill, 338; Absentee Grandchild, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 345; Suggestion, by Ida Elaine James, 353; After Long Trial, by Christie Lund Coles, 359; Washing Windows, by Zara Sabin, 363; You Cannot Win, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 363; Last Bell, by Margery S. Stewart, 376; Life, by Catherine B. Bowles, 397; After First Grief, by Maude Sear The Moon Is Full, by Evalyn Sandberg, -399; Build Strong, by Ursula King ell,. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 323 A Homemaker and Character Builder Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society "Build the whole child or you have not built well' - Mother UCY Doney Parkinson, the wife of George C. Parkinson, was born in Franklin, Idaho, in 1860. She was the daughter of pioneer parents, John and Ann Temperance Doney. The family then was living in the old fort which was occupied by the colony as a protection against the Indians. Brother and Sister Parkinson were the parents of eight children. Sister Parkinson passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1932. Many confuse the terms housekeeper and homemaker. These words are often used interchangeably, but they do not carry the same fine meaning. The housekeeper cares for the upkeep of the house, while the broader term — homemaker — includes this and much more. 'To be a homemaker one must care for the house and all that dwell therein. True homemaking is the art of developing the whole person or persons of a family. It signifies the developing of character, morals, and 324 spirituality. I think of my mother as a homemaker. As I reminisce on incidents of my early home life in Preston, Idaho, I realize that many tasks of housekeeping have changed with the changing times, but the principles of homemaking have not. In considering Mother as a homemaker, it is impossible for me to think of her apart from Father. 'They had an unusual closeness and _harmony in both purpose and training, and acted as one in making decisions. In my home, the whole child was trained by wise and loving parents, who valued the industrious, spiritual life above the social life. The children were taught the finer qualities: love, honesty, faith, fairness, work, and charity. Mother was a woman of rare charm. She was a lady of culture and refinement, a devoted wife and mother. Her many friends spoke of her in different terms. Some called her genteel; some spoke of her as the Lady Elect; as Sister Lucy; while MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER those close to her, old and young, called her Aunt Lucy. She seemed to possess qualities to suit all these names. The one special name for her which I liked best was Father's name for her — Queen — and he truly treated her as such. Each time Father came home from a day's absence, he would say: "Where is my Queen?" I think this one lovely expression caused the children to take notice and give added respect to her. Her warm, cheerful countenance, when hearing this name, brought cheer and a feeling of wellbeing into the home. To Mother, time was a precious commodity, one not to be wasted. The best time to teach and guide was while one worked at even small tasks. It was not necessary to resort to lecturing in order to teach. Teaching of economy applied to time, as well as to money, belongings, and effort. Our time was well planned for work, education, pleasure, for thinking, and even for daydreaming and planning. What great plan or project was ever accomplished without much thinking? We also learned that a child did not build up so much resentment to work, if he knew he could count on undisturbed minutes or hours that became his own precious time. In teaching economy in the use of money, Mother often quoted President Brigham Young: "A woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel." This lesson was taught as we cared for our clothing, as we cared for furniture, and kept the home in good condition. Even though we lived in the country and raised our own vegetables, we were never allowed to cook too much or waste the food. OTHER soon learned, as the eight children came along, many of the secrets of a cheerful, cooperative family. The children were expected to assume their share of the responsibilities of the home tasks. It was expected that jobs would be done well, done to meet Mother's approval. As soon as a child learned one task well, he was given full credit, and was then assigned to some new task for training. This prevented a child from building up resentment for a task he did not like to do. 'Tension was lessened, so that willingness to assist and learn followed. I remember the task of cleaning the chimneys of our coaloil burning lamps. Each morning they were lined up on the drain like well-ordered soldiers. Some child was assigned to clean them. Here, again, perfect work was required. This scheduled, planned work served as a tie to responsibility — responsibility which is so fundamental in the training of a child. Regular work, finished work, good work made for calm living, as opposed to confusion and scolding. "Any child,' Mother said, "feels more secure and much happier when he knows what is expected of him and that he must meet certain standards." Fifty years after, it remains a positive teaching tool to me. In our home the boys were expected to take their turns in helping with the housework. They had their regular jobs, as did the girls. Through these tasks they learned to respect their mother, their sisters, 325 MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER and women in general. They all became kind and thoughtful husbands and fathers as a result. Girls and boys, alike, washed dishes, cleaned floors, and assisted with the care of the smaller children. 'They truly learned that woman's work was important and not too menial for them to perform. OTHER believed and taught the words of the Savior as he spoke of keeping the Sabbath day holy: "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect " (D&C 59:13). In order to live this commandment, we as children assisted on Saturday with the preparation of the Sunday meal. Each child had a special duty in this preparation, so naturally we learned the meaning of the words of the Savior. In order to have as little confusion as possible on Sunday morning, each child who was old enough, prepared, folded, and put into drawers or on shelves the clothing to be worn on Sunday. Mother did not do this for us. After being shown how to do it, we were expected to do this for ourselves. A child was never allowed to wash or iron clothing on Sunday. Saturday was the day for this. This practice taught planning, orderliness, and respect for the Sabbath. This same training included "a place for everything, and everything in its place." Books, toys, and clothing were expected to be in their place. 'This, of course, meant a place had to be provided. We were never expected to do the impossible or the impractical, so a place was provided. Mother's teachings in charity soon became a daily part of our lives. This was taught by action and with love. We, as a group, prepared Christmas and Thanksgiving baskets to take to the less fortunate. I can visualize the six to ten baskets on the table. 'These were filled, according to the size of the family, by the children, as Mother directed the work. Pies, cakes, chicken, potatoes, eggs, bread, vegetables, and other foods were included. Our own Christmas or Thanksgiving was not planned nor completed until this was done, and the baskets were delivered by the children to the various families. Even the very small children went along. Many, many days and _ nights Mother cared for the sick, even to the assisting with the delivery of a baby. During her absence we children were expected to care for the house, so that we felt we had also assisted in caring for the sick. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," was a truism we often heard, so family camping parties, swimming parties, and lawn parties were held, but never on Sunday. Of course, there were times, among eight children, of discord and disobedience, but these times were not always lost to us. Our wise Mother used these as measuring sticks for evaluating causes and results. Nor was discipline without its humor. I well remember the day that Mother sent my small brother out to get a switch that she might tingle his legs for something he had done. In a few minutes he returned with his small hands full 327 MAY 1963 of wheat straws Mother was busy at the time he came in, but when she turned she saw that he had used the straws to spell out across the large kitchen floor "TI love you," and had put several kiss crosses at the end. When Mother saw it, she hesitated for a few seconds, then put her arm around him and said, "I love you, too, son," and kissed him. She did not turn in anger and punish him or scold him. She talked it over with the child, and the subject was dropped. Father was stake president for twenty-five years, so our home was always "open house" to all the General Authorities and auxiliary officers who visited the stake. As we assisted with the preparations for the meals, housecleaning, making beds, and other tasks, we learned to serve the guests and respect them, and listen to their counsel. While they were in our home their shoes were placed outside their rooms at night. The boys shined them and placed them there again to be worn the next morning. The girls put fresh linen on the beds, poured fresh water into the washstand pitchers, and cleaned the rooms. This lightened Mother's work and gave us an opportunity to serve. The principle of tithing was taught not only by example, but through discussion with each member of the family, and with the family as a whole. Plans were discussed whereby it would be possible for full payment of the tithe. Each child figured his own share and paid it himself. Often a child found it necessary to rebudget his expenditures in order to save the ten per 328 cent, but all the children knew that tithing came first on the list. Sister Lucy Parkinson spent many, many hours traveling over the large stake in the service of the Lord. Not only did she teach Primary, Sunday School, and Mutual at times during the rearing of her family, but, as counselor in the stake Relief Society to Sister Louisa Benson, she visited the far, outlying wards as an officer. (Sister Benson was the grandmother of our present member of the Council of the 'Twelve. ) S Mother prepared the lesson in the quiet of her own room, we learned the value of thorough preparation. As she traveled many, many miles by horse and buggy, or horse and sleigh over poor roads, or no roads at all, with only a soapstone (steatite) to warm her, the lesson of dependability was taught. Religious training was daily a part of our living. Often it was merely the following of an example set by our parents. I cherish the hours I spent discussing the principles of the gospel with my parents. I remember that it was during an afternoon when we were gathering corn, that Father explained so clearly to me the mission and attributes of the Holy Ghost. If a question of doctrine came up that Father or Mother did not understand, there followed a period of study, often with the child. My parents were never too busy to explain the gospel to us. There was no place in our training for superstition or fear of the unknown, the dark, forces of nature, lightning, water, or storms. At an early age we became closely ac quainted with these things. As a family we took long walks in the evening and into the dark, thus learning the hidden beauties of the night, rather than fear of it. On starlit nights, we placed blankets and chairs on the lawn in order to look at the wonders of the heavens. It was at such times that Mother explained God's great power, his wisdom, and his purpose for the planets — millions of them. Death, we were taught, was God's plan for graduation from this, the second estate, to the hereafter. Death, we learned, is not a tragedy, nor something to dread. It is comparable to the transition from the first to the second estate, when parents and family anxiously await the arrival of a baby. We learned that someone is present to welcome our loved ones as they leave this life. At the time of death of our loved ones, we were prepared to accept it, MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER President and Sister Parkinson Picture taken in Preston, bo at 4 my ' 2 & a4 a, 4 x ie. °: yd he? Aa TP ee = 5, ee Nea Meee, a pe Ld Idaho, in 1900 so that, gradually, it became a sweet, fond memory. HE power of the Priesthood was witnessed many times, as members of the family, friends, and neighbors were healed, according to their faith. A child was. Never sent from the sickroom when someone was being administered to, rather the children' were invited to be present. I am sure it was Mother's attitude towards the Priesthood and Father's great responsibility as president of the stake for so many years that engendered in our hearts respect for the Authorities. To Mother and Father the main purpose of life was to make of their children candidates for the celestial kingdom. This could not be taught in the home unless the parents believed and lived the celestial law of temple marriage. Brigham Young 329 MAY 1963 taught that we must grow in knowledge and grace from day to day, and from year to year. This became Mother's motto in stressing the necessity of learning gospel truths. She taught that to live the law we must know it. The expression "It is high to be a judge" was often heard as judgment was being passed on friend or neighbor. If the criticism continued, a second quotation was used — "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Mt. 7:1). Probably the frequent use of quotations, followed by an explanation, was what made the scriptures become so real, such a part of our family life. NE lesson that we learned well was: Why should we be embarrassed when our Church standards are questioned or made fun of? Mother explained that this is God's Church, not a man-made one. Why should we apologize for it or try to explain it away? Many times this was the only convincing we needed in order to uphold the standards when they were questioned. The teaching of morality was high on the list, and respect for the possessions of others, for the rights of others. 'The children respected the clothing, rooms, and even the time of other members of the family. This one teaching helped to eliminate disputes and confusion. Fairness was something to be cherished. As the small children traded marbles, toys, string, kites, and other articles, they were reminded: "A bargain or a deal is not a good one unless it is equally good for both parties concerned." Even as the 330 children grew into adulthood, this principle was closely guarded. We were taught to "Honour thy father and thy mother." It was Mother who built the image of Father as head of the home. She was always alert to the niceties of life and their application. In teaching respect for Father, his chair, paper, and slippers were always ready and in place for him when he returned from church or office. It was a common thing to see a child, in respect for him when he came in, get up from Father's chair and re mind him it was for him. If he had had a trying day, or if some special disappointment or worry was his, Mother prepared an especially fine dinner, and the children were alerted to be cheerful and leave their problems behind. At these times, Mother showed increased kindness, love, and understanding. Father was never underestimated, downgraded, or made to feel he would not or could not succeed. Encouragement and understanding were Mother's strong points. Often these were all that were necessary to solve a problem. In return for this encouragement, Father showed unusual love and respect for Mother. He was the one who impressed this upon the minds of the children. After our family prayer at dinnertime, Mother did not leave the table in order to serve the meal. Father saw that the children, both boys and girls, did all the serving. They had been trained for this, and each took his turn. 'This same training in respect and consideration was carried into all relationships between parents and children. This teaching of honoring Father MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER THE PARKINSON FAMILY HOME IN PRESTON, IDAHO This home was built in 1895, one of the first large homes in Preston. It was here that Brother and Sister Parkinson reared their eight children. And Mother was carried even further. I can truly say that I never saw my parents quarrel. They had differences, of course, but they never resorted to harsh or loud words. Again, as children went on dates, they were always told, "Remember who your Father is, and remember who your Mother is, and never let them down." 'This was a reminder to shun certain things and accept others. Lucy Parkinson taught well, as shown by President Joseph F. Smith, when he visited our home. During one of these visits, he said, "There is a rare feeling of spirituality, a feeling of calm, and of training, in this home that is not common to all homes." I came to realize that any of the children could say, C What virtues I have, I learned during my childhood in my home; any wrongs I have committed have been of my own making. In thinking over my childhood, I say to myself of Mother, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, when he quoted the Savior: "Ye shall do the work which ve see me do." No finer tribute can I pay to my Mother or to mv Father. 331 ase gp ep 1963 _ CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS. Ri WIN) il in) | HHA th sa Win WN) nln Wy Il Nit i! CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1963 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1963. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize - - -------$40 Second prize $30 Third prize $20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. 332 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational Relief Society Short Story Cor HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1963 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1963. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize - 2-2.2------$75 Second prize - -$60 Third prize $50 The three prize-winning § stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1964. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT — 1963 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1963. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Av is @ "~ es the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 333 MAY 1963 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1963. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Echo Rosa Lee Lloyd "Don't cry, little love," my mother said When I stubbed my toe or bumped my head. Then she kissed it better as mothers do When you are a wee little girl of two. "Take bumps with a bounce," my brother advised When my teenage heart was shocked or surprised. Life was a blue sky, frolic, and fun, But grownup bumps came, one by one. Now if I listen, a voice will caress, Whispering comfort and lovingly bless. Where does it come from? I only know It sounds like an echo from long ago. Picture on opposite page —""Tree Homestead,' H. Armstrong Ro 334 ADAME Hygrecko and I faced each other across the easel. My hands were folded quietly, my eyes focused on a handle of the French door. Beyond I could see only the gray, gray sky of Paris, and an occasional boat drifting by on the river. If I turned my eyes ever so slightly, I could see Madame Hygrecko, a pallet and half a dozen brushes in one hand, a single brush in the other. I could see the line of concentration between her eyes, her squint when she held the brush in a horizontal line before her to make a measurement of my face. Neither of us said a word. In her kitchen doing the washing up, or in her living room sewing together, we could chat as if we had always lived in the same world. But when she was painting, she needed all of the quiet concentration that I need at my typewriter. She seemed to work -rapidly, but with no slap-dash. Pasting on of color. 336 \ PQ) RIPRATT OF LIKE Helen Hinckley Jones When the first sitting was almost over, she explained that she did not draw with a pencil before she began painting a portrait; that she could do the drawing she needed with her brushes as she progressed. She also said that the artist's problem was not to make the portrait look like the subject. That was easy. Even good copyists could do that. To me this was incomprehensible. I've always had to label the drawing I did to please my children. "Our dog, Bruno; our cat, Cutie Pie." I found myself dozing as I sat, and she took pity on me. "Were through for today," she told me, putting a sheet over the painting. The sheet clearly said that Madame Hygrecko wasn't ready for me to see her work, but later I looked under the sheet. I'm not one to open a Christmas package on the fifteenth of December, but I did look under the sheet. What I saw was a very good likeness of my father. He had my hair and he was wearing my blue blouse, but the proportions of the face, the high, square forehead, the rather thin, upturned lips, the eyes, only slightly unmatched as to size and shape, were all his. Hurriedly I returned the sheet. I remembered that once on a bus in the part of the country where my father had lived as a boy, a stranger asked, "Are you Sam Hinckley's daughter? I thought so. I knew Sam when he was your age." At the next sitting Madame Hygrecko, not knowing that I had violated her privacy, said, "TI never like the subject to look at the first day's work. In the first day I just get the big features, the structure of the face — forehead, cheek bones, chin line. Today I'll begin to flesh it out." I sat quietly again, sometimes dreaming, sometimes almost dozing, sometimes thinking, sometimes re- 'membering. Madame Hygrecko 'worked with concentration and speed, only speaking when she stopped to squeeze a new color onto her pallet. Again, she put the sheet over the painting when she had completed her morning's work. Again, I cheated a little and took a look when she was busy elsewhere. Now the painting didn't look like my father as much as it looked like me. From a distance, looking through squinted eyes, the portrait looked almost like a colored photograph blown up to life size. THE next day, as Madame settled at the easel, she said, "Now I am ready to begin the hard work. I have been painting your face—your PORTRAIT OF LIFE physical face — but today I shall begin to paint you." Whenever I could look away from the door handle, I saw on her face a look of extreme concentration. Sometimes, a look of delight seemed to play over the look of concentration, not really taking its place. At the end of the third sitting she did not cover the canvas. I was free to look at it if I wished, but she did not turn it toward me. After a time I gave in to my curiosity. This time the portrait looked so much like me that looking at it was like peering into a mirror. I would have called the portrait finished, but the next morning I sat again, this time with more conscious cooperation. "I am working on your eyes now. Please move them as little as possible." Or, "I am working on your lips now. No, don't smile. A smile usually looks foolish on a portrait." After a long time, she said, "Now I'm getting you. The real you. You're coming. I'm getting that something that is you." At the end of the sitting she turned the canvas toward me. "Have you any suggestions?" she asked. For a moment I was deeply disappointed. I didn't know that I looked like that. I went to the mirror and compared my face with the one in the portrait. I remembered Robert Burns, "Oh, wad some power the giftie gie us, 'To see oursels as others see us!" In every line and shadow Madame Hygrecko's brushes were right. I tried to hide my feelings, but she saw me massaging my double chin. "But I'm not through yet." The next morning she worked 337 MAY 1963 with an almost constant look of satisfaction. Finally she said, "I'm through now." I walked away, leaving her cleaning her brushes. When I came back into the room she had slipped the portrait into a simple frame, and it was facing me on the easel. And now the painting stopped me. Here was not only a picture of how I looked on the outside, but of how I felt on the inside. This wasn't like facing myself in a mirror. It was tather as if I had been in the room before I came in, if this explanation makes any sense. My presence was there in the portrait. The face in the frame wasn't young. It wasn't beautiful. In fact, I had not known before that so much of my hair was gray, or that my chin was so double, or that the lines on my face were so deep. But somehow these things didn't matter. I knew that the artist was right, and I didn't mind at all. It was as if this were an old friend whose looks had ceased to matter. After a time an art critic, a collector of paintings, came to see the portrait. He had never met me, but from the canvas he read my character and personality. Truly my life was pictured in my face. All my life I had heard that each of us makes his own face, but I had never realized what the axiom meant until I watched the portrait grow. When I was born I came into the world with a face like my father's. I had done nothing to that face. The bones were there, the lips, the eyes, all his, as well as mine. Then I began to do subtle things to my face. The face of my "second day" was mine, as well as his. I lived longer, and the face was all mine. And, finally, the face was not only mine, it was me (grammatical error intentional). Season of the Heart Lael W. Hill Over the winter land You speak a word of roses, Into the time of gray You bring a golden bough. Summer is your hand, Your voice an open garden: How shall I wait cold Or desolate now? Green leafs my mind, The bees announce a coming, Every bird is concert Where winds run softly new. Only deaf and blind Deny the palpitant season Where I walk summer sure Because of you. 338 pele Pe ahere Wied Vale 3 a: million times in the eight years since I had been living. But today I wished the lightning would hit the tree and bum us both up. Because I didn't want any stepmother. I wanted just my father and me and Elberta Eddler, like it had been since I could remember. Elberta came to our place every day and cooked the meals and kept the house clean. Sometimes, if I tracked dirt on the floor or lost the scissors, she talked to herself while She worked. But it didn't matter because she could cook. Such good things, and she knew such wonderful stories. Whenever she read me stories about stepmothers I felt sorry for the kids who had them. They were mean old things who made children wear rags or had someone leave them in the woods for the wild beasts. My friend Joey said I should run away, but I didn't want to live without my Dad. Everything had been all right until he went away on a long business trip. When he came back the mailman began bringing the pink letters that smelled like sweet peas. " OME eet ene gy " nee Pe mera eH mone, nme eet Ng ~ Hazel K. Todd I thought the pink letters were bills, but when I asked my father he just said, "No, Freddie." And when I asked Elberta she said, "Now, Freddie, you just mind your business and remember your father's letters are his own affairs." Then she went away talking to herself. But something was wrong with my father. He sat and watched through the window without saying anything, and when I asked him to play Battalion with me he said, without even looking: "T'omorrow, Freddie." And then tomorrow he would say the same thing. Then I saw him looking at mother's picture on the mantel. He looked at it lots of times. Only this time he had one of the pink letters, and he was just standing there staring. And there were tears running down his face. I ran outside because I had never seen my father cry and it frightened me. I climbed up in the apple tree like I always did when I wanted to think. And I didn't even hear my Dad come up until he said, "Hey, up there, may I come up and sit by you?" I jumped and nearly fell out of the tree. Dad laughed then just 339 MAY 1963 like he did when things were all right. I was so glad. And I was so glad he would come up and sit by me, because he had never sat in the apple tree with me before. "Sure," I said, and moved over on the limb. He swung up in the tree easy and sat there looking at me. I felt so good I could burst. "Freddie," he said, "how would you like to have a mother?" "Mother?" I couldn't think how I could have my mother when she was dead. "Yes," he said, looking at me so hard I wondered if he could see the things inside me. "I mean I would marry a lovely lady like your mother was and she would be your mother." "You mean a — a stepmother?" Dad frowned a little. "I guess you would call her a stepmother." I thought I was going to choke. "No," I said, backing away from him on the limb. "We don't need a stepmother. We have Elberta." Dad: put his hand over mine. "You would love her, son." — "No!" I screamed. 'No, I don't want any old stepmother!" jumped out of the tree, without even thinking it was a long way to the ground and I might break something. My tooth ran into my lip, but I jumped up and ran away as far as I could, which was under the bridge of the creek that separated our place from Joey's. I sat there a long time before I remembered Elberta talking to herself when I asked about the pink letters. So I went to find her. She was cutting up chicken. She looked at me over her glasses. 340 "Well," she said, "you look like you had just eaten a stinkbug." "Elberta," I said, "Dad wants to marry a stepmother." Elberta gave a big whack at the chicken leg and cut it off with one swipe. "Well," she said with a funny look on her face. "What about it? I guess he couldn't marry anything that wouldn't be a stepmother." "But, Elberta," I said, "I don't want him to marry anything. I don't want any old stepmother!" Elberta gave another big whack at the chicken and jerked her hand back. "Now, look what you've made me do, coming around bothering me. Now, I've cut my finger." She wrapped her apron around it and started for the bathroom. Then she turned. "Freddie," she said, "you aren't marrying her. It's your father, and he's always before known what he was doing." And then she went on to the bathroom. FTER that Dad didn't say any more to me about it. And I thought he had forgotten. He was like he used to be. We played Battalion. Dad put on his grandfather's. Uniform that he wore in the Mormon Battalion, and I put on the coonskin cap that had come all the way across the plains. He took his grandfather's old musket, and I took the sawed-off shotgun, and we stood at attention. "Colonel," I said, "I don't want to go to war. My wife and children need me to cross the plains to Zion." "Sir," said Dad, "our country has called us. Our leader, Brigham Young, has said we should go. We must not be selfish. If we follow the instructions of our leader our families will be taken care of." I saluted and said, "Very well, sir." So we put our guns over our shoulders and marched all the way to Mexico and up to California and back to Utah. Mexico was the bottom of the orchard. California was the bridge over the creek, and Utah was the apple tree. By the squawberry bush near the creek we fought many a battle. We searched for water holes and shot wild animals. It was wonderful, playing Battalion with my Dad. Then, one night he came and sat on my bed. He kissed me and there were tears in his eyes like the day he was looking at mother's picture so hard. "Freddie," he said, "are you my pal?" I was scared. "Sure," I said, have been." And then he just looked at me for a long time. "Why, Dad, did peu cry when you asked me?" He took hold of my hand hard. "I'm going away, Freddie, for a week. When I come back I'll have your new mother." It was like I had fallen into a black hole. But my father's voice was going on from the top of the pit. "I want you to be nice to her, Freddie. You see I love you both very much." And then he leaned and kissed me again. And I wiped off the kiss and burst out crying, even if I didn't want to. I didn't know when he left, be- "just like we always BATTALION cause I covered my face with the blanket and wished I could smother. But afterwhile I put my head out because it was so miserable with wet tears and heat. The moon was shining through the window and it had a big smiling face. But I guess the moon could smile because it never had any stepmother. Then I went to sleep and dreamed the moon was my stepmother who chased me into a cloud cave so the lions could eat me. Then morning came, and Elberta came into my room, and her eyes were red and puffed up like when she ate too much chocolate and her allergy bothered her. Only this time she had a wet handkerchief wadded up in her hand. She told me this would be the last week she would be with me except on special occasions, so she wanted us to have a good time. But we didn't have a good time. Elberta kept scrubbing the house and talking to herself. 'That was the week Joey told me to run away. He said I should hide my clothes under the bridge and escape up in the hills and be a hermit and eat rattlesnakes. But I didn't want to be a hermit. I just wanted my Dad like he was before he found the old stepmother. So, here I was in the apple tree and there was nothing I could think of to do. O, pretty soon the week was gone and my father came home. There they were standing at the door. Dad had his arm around her, and he was smiling like he was happy. I felt like there was nobody wanted me. She had on a white hat with flow- 341 MAY 1963 ers and pink nbbon. 'There was brown hair curling around her face, and her eyes were blue and sparkling. I thought of Snow White's wicked queen who was so beautiful, and who tried to kill her. She held out her hand and smiled. I looked at Elberta so I wouldn't have to look at her. She talked to Elberta. "I've heard what wonderful things you cook and what good care you have taken of Freddie." Elberta smiled all over like she was her best friend. "I just know you are going to be a wonderful wife for Mr. Burton," she said. And I had to gulp for breath because 342 now she had fooled Elberta just like Dad. Dad said, "Freddie, I want you to say hello to your new mother." I turned and ran to my own room and shut the door. Then I went to bed. Afterwhile my father came and stood by me and I pretended I was asleep. I wanted him to put his hand on my shoulder and tell me he would send her away and it would be like it always was. But he didn't. I cried myself to sleep. Next morning I didn't go to breakfast. I thought my father would come and tell me to, but he didn't. But after he had gone to work I hid behind the kitchen door and watched her gather up the dishes. She had on a ruffly dress and a pink apron with lace on it. She stopped by my empty plate and looked at it. Then she sat down and looked at it. I guessed she was thinking about pushing me in the creek. I started outside, past the room that used to belong to my father. And now it was hers, too. The door was open, and I could see the white hat on the bed. I hated it. And then I thought of it. If I could do something to her to make her angry she would go away and leave us alone like we used to be. I slipped in very carefully and got the hat. Then I went after Joey who was digging fish worms for his Dad. We set them down by the house and took the hat out in the back and put it on the clothesline pole. And we shot it full of holes with our beebee guns. We shot the flowers and the ribbon until it looked like Joey's dog had chewed it. 'Then we hid in the berry bushes until she came around the house. She had some scissors and started to cut roses. 'Then she saw the hat. For a minute she just looked at it like something was going to hit her. "Pretty soon she'll get mad and start to holler at you," Joey said. "Then she'll run away." But she didn't. She came over and took it off the pole and looked at it again like what happened? Then, all at once, dike she thought of something, she smiled. Then she walked over to the garbage can and opened the lid. She cut the hat m two with the scissors and threw it in the can and went on cutting TOses. BATTALION "She didn't even care," I said to Joey. He just shrugged his shoulders. "We'll have to do something meaner," he said. So'we got her pink apron that was hanging by the sink and pinned it on the clothesline and threw mud all over it. And we hid again. But all she did was look at it a minute and then she picked up a handful of mud and threw it on the apron, too, and went into the house like nothing happened. Joey thought of something scrumptious then. We got her shoe and we killed grasshoppers and filled it full of them. We set it in front of the kitchen door. When she came out and saw it, she jumped, and we thought we had finally found something to make her mad. But she straightened up and looked around like she was hunting something. Then she saw the worm can. She picked it up and dumped the worms into her shoe and went around the house singing to herself. "Aw, shucks," Joey said, "I'm going home and dig some more worms." could tell there was nothing I could do to make her go away. I sat in the apple tree and thought about Joey telling me to run away. I wondered how nasty rattlesnakes WETEe. So I got Dad's suitcase that he took on business trips and went to my room. I put all the clothes in, it would hold. I took the coonskin cap and the sawed-off shotgun. When I put the cap in I started to cry. But I wiped the tears on my 343 MAY 1963 sleeve and went on with my business. Then, in the mirror, I saw her watching me. She was standing in the door with a funny look. "Eavesdropper!" I burst out and dropped over on the bed crying. I didn't mean to cry. Even if she was a stepmother I didn't want her to see me crying, when I was a big boy eight years old. She came over to the bed and sat down by me. She put her hand on my arm. "Freddie, I didn't mean to eavesdrop. We could talk. I." I jerked her hand off. "Leave me alone!" I yelled. "Freddie," she said, still sitting there. "It's all right to cry. But please let me talk to you when you're finished." "IT don't want to talk to you!" I wailed. "I don't like you. You took my Dad away from me! You — you want to push me in the creek, and you're mean and ugly." The sobs were shaking me so hard I couldn't say any more. So I covered my head with the pillow and let it come. She just sat there and let me cry. Then, when I could finally. Stop, she took the pillow and laid it on the other side of the bed. "Freddie," she said, "I want you to know I love you very much. Whatever would make you think I want to push you in the creek?" "Because that's what stepmothers do. They take children into the woods for the bears to eat. Or they drop them in a well or." "Why, Freddie," she said, "those are only the stepmothers in storybooks. Do you know that I had a stepmother?" 344 I just thought maybe I sat up on the bed. "You?" She smiled then, and there were crinkles around her eyes. "Yes, and I loved her very much. We were pals." "Didn't she take your Dad away from you?" She had her arm around my shoulder, and I didn't know whether to push it off or not. "No," she said, "you see there was room in his heart for both of us." "But my Dad don't like me any more. And he won't ever play Battalion with me again!" "Battalion?" she asked, "What kind of game could that be?" "It's about the Mormon Battalion. And my _ father always played it with me." "Oh, Freddie," she said, smiling. "Let's play Battalion. I'd love to." "You?" I said, looking at her, because I couldn't believe it. "Of course. Please show me how." ND then, before I knew it, I forgot about her being a stepmother. I got the uniform and we put it on her. We tied a rope around her and let it bag over so it wouldn't trip her down. I gave her the musket, and I put on the coonskin cap and took the sawedoff shotgun. And then we stood up and I started to tell her what to say. Then, all at. Once, I knew I had been. Selfish and not believed my father who was my leader. "Colonel," I said, "I'm sorry we shot your hat full of holes." "Sir," she said, without even smiling, "think nothing of it. It was an ugly old hat. I didn't like it." "And it was mean to throw mud on your pretty apron." "Ah," she said, "who cares about a little mud? It was dirty, anyway." "And the grasshoppers. I'll never do that any more." "Freddie," she said with her gun held high, "it is tough things like grasshoppers and worms that make tough soldiers." I was so happy, I turned a somersault. "Just wait until I tell Joey. He'll wish he had a stepmother!" Then we both laughed and started to Mexico. When we got by the squawberry bush, and it was time for the Indians to attack, suddenly there was a war whoop, and I jumped nearly BATTALION out of my skin.. She jumped, too, and we both started to laugh because it was Dad hiding in the bushes. And he had a _ turkey feather in his hat and some blackberry jam down his nose for war paint. "Dad!" I cried, and ran to him. "How did you know we were playing Battalion?" "Oh," he said, and with one arm he hoisted me up on his shoulder, "as I came home I heard you laughing, and I peeked in to see what was happening. This is all the make-up I had time to find. Tl do better next time." And then he put his other arm around my beautiful stepmother, and we marched to California and on to Utah, just like my father's grandfather had done. Absentee Grandchild Dorothy J. Roberts Your hands were small and petal-frail, Slim fingers my own longed to press. You hid your dark houri eyes, Small elf eluding my caress. The width of rooms you kept between Your childhood and my reaching need. I longed to, some day, glean. Your trust From the love I sowed as seed. How many trips it took before I felt the velvet of your hand Stroke my arm — my harvest yield, To shimmer golden on the land! 345 EDITORIAL VOLUME 50 MAY 1963 NUMBER 5 Eternal Earnings in Twenty-four Hours HE day draws to a close, and darkness covers the room where the woman lies. As sleep hovers a distance away, the events of her day are rehearsed. Some nights, most nights, there are feelings of satisfaction and accomplishment. Occasionally, however, a sense of futility presses upon her, or one of discouragement and reproach. She has come to divide her activities into categories as she reviews the day. Her housekeeping; her gardening; her cooking: these are tangible values, and her heart warms at the thought of the special cleaning she gave her son's closet which had been needing attention for some time. She forgot, again, however, to stake up her delphiniums; the cookies she managed to bake would be welcomed by the children in their lunches and after school the next day. Then her mind turns to values less tangible — the spirit she had lighted in the home with her family that morning. If she had not stayed in bed so long, she would not have been cross as the children got ready 346 for school, which had affected them, in turn, so they were not cooperative and had made them leave for school in an unhappy mood. But the baby had been fretful a great deal in the night, she justified herself, and so it had been very hard to get up. Her mind then weighs those events in an effort to arrive at a solution another time. She silently vows to maintain a sweet spirit the next morning — no matter what — and not to raise her voice even in the hurly burly of hurrying the children off to school. She will pray vocally for that strength, she decides, in a family prayer. Her thoughts then shift to her attitude to her husband. He came home tired, of course, and a little fearful at the day's business experience. Perhaps she could have left the children's wants for a few moments, and have taken more time to welcome him and sympathize with his rather obvious discouragement. The words of the Prophet to Relief Society members run through her head: "Never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands.... When Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer a man is borne down with trouble... [he] needs a solace of affection and kindness."" She resolves to try and not feel sorry for herself, but to extend greater affection and understanding to her husband. Her thoughts then move outside her home. What had she done that day for love of neighbor? Well, nothing, she decides, except be friendly with her neighbor in the back yard. But tomorrow she has planned to do her visiting teaching with her companion — that will be accomplishing something tangible for a neighbor. With this happy thought sleep takes over. Such an evaluation of one's daily activities to fit one's particular situation is an incentive for better living. Most of the time of a Latter-day Saint woman is fully occupied. But it is necessary for one's continued growth to be alert to the destination of each activity. Of first concern is the development in the home of a loving, a heavenly spirit, for the desired destination is a celestial home. No other activity can supplant the importance of developing harmonious relationships and guiding children to righteous living. 'This is a matter of primary concern to a wife and mother as long as she lives. But where are her activities outside her home and family leading her? For guidance in these activities she, may recall the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Is that her goal, and is she journeying toward it? Are her actions such as to engender love for her by her neighbor? Is she striving to learn to love her neighbor, or is she spending her time mostly for her own improvement, for her own enjoyment, for her own pleasure? Every Latter-day Saint woman has twenty-four hours a day to spend. The totals in eternal values which are earned may or may not equal twenty-four. Some may earn but a few minutes in a day, others may earn a full measure. A reckoning, however, will come to every woman, and while it is day, as the prophet has written, is the time to labor. —M. C. S. 347 Ora Pate Stewart T was ten-thirty on Monday night, January 7, 1963, at Garden Grove, California. We were coming home from a welfare errand. My seventeen-year-old son slowed the station wagon to a stop in our driveway and opened the door for me. "Oh, Mom! Look at the sky." The sky, disregarding mountains and construction, began at a ground horizon and arched upward in a perfect dome, round and high — ever so high — and the clouds formed an all-over pattern of square, white pieces fitted together in an artful mosaic like the mottling of rare marble in the ceiling of an ancient building. 'The clouds were unusually white for that time of night, and were marked off squarishly with little rivers — something like a massive ice-flow, with the outlines of deep blue water separating the chunks, symmetrical as square marshmallows arranged in a blue bowl. The moon seemed to have the unusual power to shine through, and seemed to move rapidly across the dome with a pale, opalescent rainbow circling it. The stars did not shine through the cloud-flow, but appeared, fleetingly, like furtive silver fishes, glistening through the blue serrations for a second or two, then disappearing under the cloud banks. A transport plane coming in from the south, winking its alternate red and green wing lights, still too far away to project any more than a faint hum, seemed somewhat out of place: a night moth captured under a great bowl — a single firefly, turning its flicker on and off. 'Then it settled at a distant airport, perhaps Long Beach. I was glad it had found its port, and I felt an apprehension for any wayfayers of the sky who might not have found their way into this solid canopy It was better without the flicker and without the hum. It was a picture unanimated but for the quiet motions of eternity — a part of the greater mural, and yet a part that could never return again exactly as it was. I have never seen anything just like it in my lifetime. It was a picture with a strange power — the power of beauty, the power of peace, the power of quiet contemplation. I thought of the signs and wonders promised for the last days. I thought of the symmetry and order of the unt verse. I thought of God. 348 DPURING the present session of the United States Congress, of one hundred Senators, women: Senator Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, of Maine, and two are Senator Maurine B. Neuberger, Democrat, of Oregon. Of 436 members of the House of Representatives, eleven are women: Charlotte T. Reid, Republican, Illinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Leonor Kretzer Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri; Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey; Edna F. Kelly, Democrat, New York; Katherine St. George, Republican, New York; Frances E. Bolton, Republican, Ohio; Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon; Julia B. Hansen, Democrat, Washington; Catherine May, Republican, Washington; Elizabeth Kee, Democrat, West Virginia. EBECCA ROBISON, a Latterday Saint musician, has been selected to play the viola in the Massachusetts All-State Symphony Orchestra. A student at Muinnechaug High School, Miss Robison was chosen by a lengthy process of auditions from the outstanding school musicians of the State. ATZUMBIE DUPEA, a Paiute Indian woman, who has had parts in several Western movies, ls now 113 years old. She expresses her philosophy of life as "Think right, do right, and don't worry." JN the small principality of Monaco, where American-born Princess Grace, wife of ruler Prince Rainier, is First Lady, women voted in the February twenty-fifth parliamentary elections for the first time. ISS HELEN HARRIS, a retired schoolteacher _ eighty - seven years old, was recently named by renowned cartoonist Herbert L. Block (Herblock) as his "Golden Key" to success (the teacher who had helped him most during his lifetime). 'The two were honored in February at the Atlantic City, New Jersey, meeting of the American Association of School Administrators. The award stems from seven educational organizations. In her journalism classes, Miss Harris stressed good citizenship and the obligation of writers to learn actual truth and tell it. 349 Early Years Are a Mother's Glory Leona Fetzer Wintch Wwetts of joy spring up everlastingly when we rear splendid children. But to have these satisfactions and garner sweet memories, we must truly love our children by going with them and guiding them during their morning of life so they may know the way. Only two years ago our house bustled with the activity of four children. One by one they have begun to leave for distant places. It will not be long until we two, who began our home together, will look forlornly across the table at each other. With tenderness and affection, our eyes will search for the small-child drawings and the homemade I Love You valentines, discolored by time, but still tacked on the wall. It would be heaven to hear their voices or see their beautiful, young faces again. The tears will crowd our eyes, but they will not fall, because the feelings of joy and sadness are mixed. There will be a desolate loneliness because our loved ones are absent, yet we know we would grieve if they always remained on our hearth. Christ would never have been our Savior if he had not left the Father. Our children, too, must go away from us to develop their capacities and realize self-fulfillment. They are gone before we know they are leaving, and the miraculous, growing years are a dream all too soon. Let us cherish every happy moment during this springtime of life. The years of, "Oh, Mommy, come quick! The moon is on' full blast!" are measured, and are quick in passing. They will not even be a memory, if precious moments are left to others who rear our little ones. Tender tears, innocent adoration, and unique expressions cannot be recaptured. Theye will never be a happier time; these early years are a mother's glory. Too B U sy? Annella Barnes H*R: just a little boy. Far too little to create much mischief. And yet — frequently the afternoon's patching has had to be put aside as I hurried to undo the mischief his busy little hands and feet had found — placing the books back on the shelf, wiping up a cup of water, coming back to my patching to find it well scattered. What's wrong with his toys, anyway? I wonder as I retrieve the overalls, scissors, thread, and thimble. Now back to the sewing. No — he's too quiet. I hurry to find him once again. Ah, there he is, playing contentedly with — oh, no! Not my new dress pattern! Striving to control my exasperation, I reach down to gather up my precious pattern, now torn beyond recognition. Two large brown eyes look up at me in smiling delight. How beautiful they are! Laying aside the really not-too-important pattern, I pick him up, and as we sit and rock together, memories carry me back to just a year ago when, in a hospital room, I had stood beside a large white bed holding a baby's tiny form, lying as though any feeble movement would be too much effort for so fragile a person.. Then the nurse had carefully lifted him from the bed and carried him down the hall to the operating room. I sat down to wait, wondering, would this small boy ever live to smile? Would he ever hold anything in his tiny fists? Would I see his first steps? Yet, today, I have resented his trying out each of these talents and scolded him for it. He is young and thirsty for knowledge — knowledge not gained from a few toys long ago understood. Such an alert little boy cannot be expected to be content with the same blocks, the same little wagon, day after day. Forgive me, little one, for being too busy to help you learn. And. Thank you, dear Lord, for one small boy with large smiling brown eyes and busy hands and feet, ever eager to learn. Surely thou hast an important work for this little one. Help me guide him in his quest for truths, and may I always remember this privilege which is mine. 351 So Long for Dreaming" Verda F. Welch S I ascended the steep stairs, A I was glad there were so many of us visiting the old home that the girls had assigned me my childhood bedroom which I had shared with them once. And as I turned on the light and looked around I was even more grateful that so few things in the room had changed during the years. It is good to go back in time now and then. The ceiling knelt gently to meet the east and west walls. 'There were windows in the north and _ south, opened wide in the summer to let in the twinkle of the stars, the songs of birds in the tall treetops, and the dances of the soft breezes. As I lay in bed in the quiet darkness, the years rolled away, and I was a carefree child again, secure and happy. Memories of Mama clung like sweet fragrance to almost everything in the room. On the floor was the linoleum I had watched her help Papa lay so painstakingly. 'There was nothing slipshod about Mama. She built to last. As she worked, she sang. I loved her folk songs as I loved her hymns. Sometimes she sang because she was happy, other times to camouflage her blues. When it was too late I remembered I had never told Mama I loved her singing. 'There were many things I forgot to tell her. In the corner was a little girl's washstand with drawers which Mama had made and carefully paint- 352 ed. 'There was a beautifully mirrored little dresser which she had created from an old organ. Mama could have made them more easily with better tools, but no more perfect. Against one wall was an old trunk, which had been hauled by wagon when Papa and Mama had come from Dixie to help colonize the Big Horn. But to me it was a treasure chest. No family crest or even pieces of eight, would have been cared for better than each carefully wrapped item Mama had placed within. She had many things on her mind, so she didn't always know exactly which bundle to unroll to find what she was looking for. I watched by her side, and hoped the needed item would be at the bottom so I would get to see as many things as possible. "T know it's here somewhere," she would say, and it always was. Important papers were kept there. I remember especially their marriage certificate, and the deed to our home. The latter had been threatened several times when the purchase of farms was considered, and mortgage was whispered. But Mama kept the deed. It represented security. 'There was a beautiful oakleaf breastpin hammered from a silver dollar by a silversmith uncle, which Mama wore on_ special occasions. There was little money for jewelry in those days, but she would compensate for that dearth in later years. 'There were boxes and albums of pictures. I never tired looking at the babies with their long white dresses; aunts and grandmas with wasp waists and bustles; and uncles and grandpas with austere faces and mustaches. Did their little girls like to kiss them goodnight each night? I wondered. There were a few compact bundles of choice editions of Young Woman's Journals, and Relief Society Magazines. Years later there would be gifts from sons on foreign shores added, never to be used. UT the main item I loved with a near obsession, was a doll. "Let me hold it. I won't drop it," I would always say, and Mama would give it to me. I even took it to a Christmas program once, and sang "Away in a Manger," with other little girls, holding more expensive dolls, but none more treasured. SO LONG FOR DREAMING Mama had made and stuffed the body, and sewed on stockings, carefully made the lace-trimmed petticoat and print dress. Its sweet porcelain face, I thought, reflected the face of its little mother, who had never missed the soft brown hair, which, of necessity, had been shorn from her fevered head. I had watched Mama weave the hair carefully into a switch and glue it on the doll's head. The doll represented the love and perfection of my little sister, whom I scarcely remember. I stirred as a noise floated through my dreams. It must be Papa calling from the foot of the stairs. The fragrant odor of home-cured bacon curls came wafting up from the kitchen. 'The noise persisted, and brought me back to reality. My visit was over, and so was the night, which had been so short for sleeping, and so long for remembering. 353 RUSILLA DUTTON tilted the white porcelain cup to allow the last few drops of precious milk to trickle into wee Bethy's mouth. "Now, Baby must eat her mush and molasses," she said firmly, setting the cup aside and reaching for the cracked blue bowl. But Bethy pushed it away, determinedly shaking her head. "Mik," she demanded. Mik."' Drusilla sighed in exasperation. Milk was all Bethy wanted, and Buttercup gave so little. Reluctantly, she poured out a little more from the small amount left in the pan, reflecting that Benny would have to do without this morning, as she and Jonathon had done. At least they had the consolation of knowing the cow would do better after they penned her up and started feeding her corn fodder. When she heard Dobbin and Nig stomping outside, she put Bethy "Mow 354 down on the hard-packed floor and went to the door. Jonathon was waiting, his hard, muscular body braced on the running gear, the sharp-bitted ax beside him. He stretched a hand for the packet of corn bread she handed him, reached to kiss her, and shook the reins to start the team moving. "... Back tonight. Let Benny go. The rest of his words were drowned in the medley of sound produced by the moving outfit. "What did you say?" she called after him, startled. "Let Benny go with Pablo and the sheep after he gets the milking done," he shouted back above the jingle of harness chains and plop of hoofs. Then the wagon moved out of the yard leaving Drusilla staring after it in open-mouthed indignation. Let Benny go with Pablo, indeed! Jonathon knew she objected to Benny's going off in the hills with that unwashed old hired man. Didn't he know she had enough worries just trying to keep Bethy satisfied with the insufficient amount of milk, trying to wash with the paltry amount of water allotted her, trying to. "T won't do it," she declared to no one in particular, unless perchance, Buttercup heard, placidly chewing her cud somewhere in the nearby shadows. "I won't do it," she said again. "Benny shan't go with that dirty, ignorant old sheepherder. If he comes near, I'll give him a send off he won't forget." When Jonathon had first learned of this valley and wanted to homestead here, Drusilla's first concern had been whether or not there were neighbors. Yes, Jonathon had assured her, there were other settlers nearby. When the "others" turned out to be an old sheepherder and his flock of odorous woolies, she had been appalled. What made it worse was that Jonathon had accepted Pablo matter-of-factly, and Benny and Bethy were as fascinated by him as he was by them. That his clothes were filthy, his whiskers matted and unkempt, and his person long unwashed seemed to matter to no one but her. She had tried to discourage his all too obvious attentions, refusing to accept his favors, and demanding that Jonathon pay him for the occasional piece of unsavory looking mutton he brought them. She could still hear the dressing down Jonathon gave her. "You can't buy love," he had told her sternly, "which is what Pablo is giving us. And love is all he wants in return. Can't you see we're folks to him?" THE INSIDE OF THE CUP "But he's so dirty," she had wailed, "and look what he's doing to Benny. I even have a hard time getting him to bathe or change his clothes any more, since he wants to opy Pablo in everything." "Well," Jonathon had suggested mildly, "the best solution might be for you to make Pablo a new shirt and lend him the bathtub." RUSILLA had glanced at him in quick suspicion. "You needn't make fun," she said finally. "I am concerned about my son's welfare, even if you aren't. I don't like the influence Pablo has on him." "Honey," Jonathon had replied emis "Tm not joking. I am concerned about Benny's welfare, too, and I think Pablo is good for him. He's friendly and honest, and I respect him. I happen to know he has had a mighty lonely existence the past few years. Why won't you try to help him, Drue?" But she had fought the idea then as she was fighting it now. Drusilla knew she should be beginning the day's tasks. 'There was the washing to do, the shirts she was making for Jonathon and Benny to finish, a little apron to iron for Bethy, and above all, the empty jars to be prepared for the jam she intended to make. But she continued to linger in the narrow doorway, grateful for the cloaking shadows which softened the ugliness of alkali flats and rocky outcroppings — of hills with their scant pasturage — of the lonely, desolate homestead. In the late September dawn, corn Shocks showed, tepee-like, in the fenced enclosure, dim evidence of the year's harvest, and she was grate- 355 MAY 1963 ful for the security it represented. It was meager, but supplemented by milk from the cow and the luscious elzerita berrics Jonathon had promised to bring her for the winter's swectening, it should suffice. From across the nearby arrovo, Old Pablo's sheepcote emitted a multivocal of sheep impatient to begin the davy's grazing, and, simultancously, the acrid smell of pulverized sheep droppings stung the nostrils. Grimacing distastefully, Drusilla stepped over the raised door sill and entered the hut, shutting the heavv slab door behind her. In the flickering light of the coaloil lamp the transformation she had wrought in this crude little jacal brought the customary wave of satisfaction. Deserted, prior to their coming a year ago, by its former inhabitant, it had been a very unappealing dwelling. She and Jonathon had whitewashed the walls inside and out, sanded the floor, hung shelves for dishes, driven wooden pegs for hanging clothes, and sunk posts into the floor to support the woven rawhide thongs on which now rested two corn-shuck mattresses. On one of these, ten-yearold Benny still lay in well-scrubbed oblivion, RUSILLA gathered up the soiled clothes and laid out fresh ones for Benny. She was a tall woman, neat and well-groomed even at this early hour, with a mania for cleanliness. Her high button shoes were fastened to the very top, her demure calico gown securely buttoned, and her long hair carefully restrained at the nape of her neck. The uncompromising sternness of 356 her thin features was relieved only by the mouth, which carried a generous sensitivity. Drusilla had not known Benny was awake, but there he was, sitting up in bed, his brown eyes beneath the sun-bleached blond thatch fixed intently on hers. She turned away to avoid seeing the disappointment she knew she was going to inflict. "Good morning, son," she said over her shoulder, "did you sleep well?" "Yes, Mama. Say, Mama, may I?" "Good," she interrupted quickly. "Now hurry and dress, because I want you to drag some sticks for the wash fire before you milk Buttercup. And the barrel is low, so V'll need you to go carry some water from the arroyo." "But Mama." There was agonizing heartbreak in his cry. "Pa said I could help Pablo drive the sheep to another water hole over on the slope. I've never gone with him, and Pa said I could. Pablo needs me, Mama. Let me milk now." Drusilla almost weakened. Benny had so few pleasures in this harsh, new land. Maybe it wouldn't hurt to let him go just this once. Then a vivid image of Benny growing up to be like Pablo, if she allowed the friendship to continue, and, worse still, the thought of the old man in the rank, disreputable garments he wore, coming in contact with tiny Bethy in the dainty little dresses she labored so hard to keep clean, built up her resolve anew. No. She couldn't give in now. Today, while Jonathon was not here to act as buffer between what he called her un- feelingness and the old man's friendly overtures, was the time to put Pablo in his place. | Drusilla swung around to face the boy, who stood with feet planted wide apart and stubbornly protruding lip. "Your — Pa — is — not — here," she mouthed with what she hoped was unmistakable finality, "and whether you think Pablo needs you or not is immaterial. We don't owe that old sheepherder anything." UT Benny refused to be silenced. "Pa says the outside dirt doesn't matter so much, if the inside is clean," he informed her doggedly. "And we do, too, owe Pablo something!" Realizing he had found the chink in her armor, his voice began to climb. "He made Dobbin well the time he ate those poison weeds. And I'll bet if Buttercup ate some of them he could...." "Benny, won't it be nice if your Pa brings a big sack of elzerita berries?" Drusilla tried frantically to turn his mind to a less disturbing subject. But a thrill of fear went through her; that was why Jonathon had gone to the mountains. 'They needed posts to build Buttercup a pen before the dwindling forage tempted her to eat the deadly plant. "No!" Benny scornfully refused to be sidetracked. "You never let me give any of it to Pablo, and he likes sweet stuff. You're mean, that's what you are!' And, jerking open the door, he can angrily up the hillside in search of wash wood. Somewhat shaken, Drusilla almost wished she had not made an issue of Benny's desire to go with Pablo. She hated discord, and, ordinarily managed to keep her household running THE INSIDE OF THE CUP smoothly. But honesty compelled her to admit it was because Jonathon generally let her have her way, and Benny was mostly quite tractable. She sewed several buttons on the blue chambray shirts, and then ironed Bethy's ruffled apron, later brushing the baby's silky hair into golden ringlets. A sudden thank fulness came over her; she was so grateful for this beautiful little daughter! No wonder old Pablo couldn't keep his hands off her. A shamed sympathy for the lonely life he led in the decrepit little shack beyond the arroyo swept over her. She really should be kinder, because, as Jonathon said, he did seem anxious to learn their ways, and she could help him. Of course she would never agree to make him a member of the family, as Jonathon and the children would like, or even to let Benny follow him into the hills, but she would be kind. If he came to get Benny, she would.... '"Bennee!"" Old Pablo's hoarse croak sounded outside the jacal, "You help Pablo with sheeps?" Drusilla threw open the door. "Good morning, Pablo, Benny isn't here. He has gone to get." UT old Pablo wasn't listening. He had spied little Bethy peeping from behind Drusilla's skirts and was holding out his arms. Like a flash, the tot slipped through the doorway and held up her own to be taken, crying, "Pab'o, Pab'o," in delighted welcome. A _ radiant joy suffused the grimy, wrinkled old face. He swung her up to press the grizzled whiskers against the delicate little face, fondling her plump 357 MAY 1963 chubbiness, caressing the golden curls, and murmuring endearments. The little apron became dirtsmirched, the tiny arms and face acquired greasy finger marks. Horrified, Drusilla swooped to snatch her darling away from such sacrilege. 'The kindliness she had intended was forgotten in the wild fury that swept over her. "Take your hands off my baby. Go away. Don't come around here any more ever. Oh." Old Pablo stared at her, stunned, for a long moment, then comprehension dawned in the dim old eyes. "IT make Bethee dirty, Pablo very sorry, he said with quiet dignity, turning away. "Bethee is like Pablo's baby who died in this house long time ago. Pablo go now — not come back." 'Tears furrowing the brown, grizzled cheeks, he staggered away. She had won. Breathing rapidly, Drusilla leaned against the doorway of the little house which had been Pablo's, which, she knew now, he had vacated in order-that she might have a place in which to live. Jonathon knew; he had made a trip here. Why, oh, why hadn't he told her? Why had he let her continue in her cruel selfishness? Unmindful of the crying Bethy, she started after him. She would bring him back, tell him what a fool she had been, make up to him for the loss of the litttle daughter he had loved long ago, help him. On she ran, disregarding the brush that snagged at her clothing and scratched her skin. BENNY came stumbling down the hillside, yelling and waving 358 his arms. He reached old Pablo, said something to him, then raced toward her. "Buttercup — poisoned. Pablo wants kettle — water. Hurry," he gasped. They worked feverishly, Drusilla down on her knees in the dust beside the silent old man, forcing the antidote he had brewed from leaves of some nameless plant down the cow's throat, praying as she had never prayed before. But she knew, from old Pablo's discouraged shrug, that it was too late. "Find another cow quick," he said, finally, giving them all a compassionate look before shuffling off to round up his long-neglected sheep. Guilt lying heavy in her breast, Drusilla walked back to the jacal, conscious of Benny's condemning look. Had she allowed him to go after the cow earlier, as he had wished, Bethy might not now be faced with possible starvation. There were no other milk cows in the area. How insignificant seemed all her fears concerning Pablo's undesirable influence on her children now that Bethy might not live to grow up, and Benny hated her! Since there was no Buttercup for Benny to milk next day, he wandered aimlessly about, glancing occasionally at the pan of jam left over after Drusilla had filled the Mason jars from the luscious fruit Jonathon had brought from the mountains. Wordlessly, she filled Bethy's white cup — unneeded now — and gave it to Benny. Like a flash he was out the door and on his way to Pablo — Pablo who loved sweets, who loved her who had abused him. Drusilla reached for her bonnet. "T'll be back soon," she told the stern-faced Jonathon, who was coaxing fussy little Bethy to eat some mush with jam on it. At the arroyo, Drusilla saw with amazement that only the water hole Jonathon and Pablo had fenced to keep the animals from befouling it still held water. This, then, was why Pablo, who had as much right to the water as they did, more, really, since he had been here first, had taken his sheep elsewhere to water. Would her obligations to him never cease? Pablo, 'his face one great, happv. Purple smear, was coming from the sheepcote beyond his incredibly tiny jacal, carefully bearing something white in his black wrinkled hands — THE INSIDE OF THE CUP Bethy's cup. Benny was beside him, jabbering excitedly. Seeing her, he sprang forward. "Tt's milk, Mama, milk from Pablo's ewe that had her lamb killed by coyotes yesterday when he was gone so long!" 'Then, remembering, he added quickly, "The cup's clean, Mama, really clean inside, and Pablo says there'll be milk for Bethy as long as she needs it." Drusilla's moist eyes met those of the gentle, loving, forgiving old man for a long moment, during which no words were spoken and none were needed. Yes, the inside was clean, really clean! And gratefully accepting the precious cup of milk from the gnarled, dirty old hands, she hurried home to_ her hungry baby. \ L 5 T,..! Aiter Long Irial Christie Lund Coles This is entering a wide, green valley, After the slashing wind of a desert place, Finding the waters cool, the meadows wide, The breeze gentle on the lifted face. This is like finding home, unchanged and sure, After feverish, lonely wandering, Finding no small thing has altered here, Though we have changed, known thirst and hungering. This is reaching rest and warmth and shelter, After winter's frost, ice-slivered snow; This is survival, discovering those we love After they were lost. Though none can know The path uncharted, lonely we have gone, Till each goes unaccompanied (through the scathe That comes to all men, soon or late) Save by his courage and his secret faith. 359 As the Heart Grows "99 @@ Leola Seely Anderson love you!" No sweeter words were ever spoken, no purer thought was ever born. No greater joy was ever measured than the simple, exquisite infinity of "T love you!" Within the walls of my heart are many mansions. Each is precious, lovely, rare. Each holds an image indestructible; each is eternal there. Once my heart was one vaulted chamber, dedicated only to a lonely portrait — myself. But it was soon invaded by another. My Mother's bright blue eyes, her sunny hair, the light of her smile — these became my world. And I divided my heart once more to let my Father in — and later there were those other dear ones, my brothers and sister. Life was full, my love serene. A gallery of cherished ones filled my every need, until the day a friend slipped in, and his image was engraved in its own hall of fame. My heart was no larger, but oh, the difference in my vision! J loved outside my family. Others were admitted tentatively from time to time. Some came to stay; some grew dim, faded away, and were replaced by faces new and fresh. Before any could be permanently fixed, a new room had to be prepared. Once I thought my work completed — family and friends were there. And yet there came another for whom my heart pulsed with new meaning. This was an image to be superimposed upon my own; this one took my place. For my husband I ceased to think of self. I awoke to other vistas. Love seeks not itself; neither does it demand anything. It asks only the privilege to serve, to give, to suffer, if need be, but always to be near the sweet flame which kindled its fire. This portrait I cherished in my heart's loveliest hall, with gratitude and faith in its being eternally mine. And as the years passed by, my mansions increased in number. Each of 360 ~ my children possesses one, each immortal. Though he should break my heart and make my tears a flood, he could not erase my love. Though he walk in the farthest reaches of heaven or earth, he could not depart my heart's door. He is loved. Again I thought myself filled — family, friends, my mate, my children — surely one could ask no more? But Jesus stood at my door and knocked, and for him its portals swung wide. He entered, and his presence filled every corner with wider vision. Miraculously, my capacity to love increased a hundredfold! Not alone my own, those near and dear to me, but a whole troop of others crowded in. The tired, the needy, the afflicted, the discouraged — I found my compassion had gained new dimension. These were my brothers and -sisters — God's other children who needed me, even as I needed them. True, there are now some rooms of sorrow in my heart, where portraits bring only pain; still their niches can never be uncarved, unfilled, nor forgotten. 'They have taught me that ingratitude, indifference, thoughtlessness — even evil, anger, revenge — can be forgiven if the love of God lends its strength to mine. And though my heart's mansions become numberless as the stars of heaven, yet is each one as large as at first; though each treasure possesses a room, my powers of tenderness are enlarged infinitely. As I love, my capacity to love expands; as I cherish, I become more nearly like him, and my reason for being is more nearly realized. I love you. In my heart are many mansions reflecting the joy I know. Perhaps, someday, when I have learned life's lessons well, my chambers may encompass the world, and then shall I glimpse the majesty of the love of God. 361 INSided and out | Washing Windows You Cannot Win HERE comes a time in every away-from-home-at-mealtimer's life when the waxed-wrapped items enclosed in a brown paper bag get to look dull and monotonous. When this happens, a little change of pace in sandwich fillings, plus a few surprises, will do wonders toward renewing enthusiasm for that midday pickup. VARY THE BASICS The wise lunch-box chef knows that even a minor change, such as a variety in something as basic as bread, can do wonders for whetting a noontime appetite. The next time you go shopping, browse for a few moments among the many sizes and shapes of bread and rolls, along with the various kinds of rye, pumpernickel, raisin, onion, cracked wheat, and French loaves. Do bear in mind the slice thickness of the breads you choose. Thin slices are fine for dry spreads, but those moist spreads call for the support of thick slices of bread. SPREAD THEM OR STACK THEM Now for the middle. Try some of these combinations on the family, or, better still, make up fillings of your own to use on variety breads. Swiss cheese on pumpetnickel with mayonnaise. Raisin or date-nut bread with cream cheese. Ham, cheese, tomato, pickle, and lettuce, with mayonnaise on a hamburger bun. Sliced American cheese spread with strawberry jam on enriched white bread. Bacon, tomato, and lettuce, with mayonnaise on toast. Thin slices of spiced, canned ham spread with cinnamon-touched applesauce. Chopped beef, minced onion, and catsup. Liver sausage, drained pickle relish, and mayonnaise mixed together as a spread. Softened cream cheese with chopped green pepper and grated carrot. Crumbled, crisp bacon gives a new flavor to an egg salad filling. Blend thoroughly equal parts of peanut butter, orange juice, and moist, shredded coconut for a mysterious filling that's sure to be a conversation piece. 364 TANGY TASTE-SETTERS Even your standard fare of cold cuts, sliced cheese, and leftover meat loaf can be given a spark with these little touches: Chili sauce, mustard, or catsup to perk up the mayonnaise. Horseradish, marjoram, curry, or caraway seeds as a_ substitute for prepared mustard. TRY SOME APPETIZERS Use your regular meat skewers for making and serving interesting miniature kabobs to make a different lunch away from home. Alternate any of the following on the skewer, but keep in mind the flavor of the sandwich they are to accompany: Stuffed olives, cheese' cubes, pineapple chunks, one-inch pieces of frankfurters or cooked sausage, small pickled onions, pickle slices, canned luncheon meat cubes, radishes, raw cauliflower, carrots, celery, green pepper, dried apricots, strawberries, or other fruits and vegetables easy to skewer and carry. These kabobs can be made ahead the night before and wrapped in aluminum foil for quicker morning preparations. EVERYONE LIKES SURPRISES! Breaking the lunchtime monotony can be done in ways other than just supplying a variation in foods: Give the children holiday napkins, special treats for birthdays and good report cards, a funny joke, or money for milk or orange juice. Slip the grownup members of the family such items as cartoons, greeting cards, or magazine articles you would like them to read. Most of all, use your imagination. Have fun creating something your lunch-toters will really look forward to — and lunch sacks as tempting as Christmas presents EVERY week day of the year. 365 Margaret F. Maxwell What a useful servant we have in our vinegar bottle! Too many times we think of vinegar only as an agent in pickling or preserving, or in making salad dressing. But keep your vinegar bottle handy. It can be helpful in practically every room in the house. Sewing room: To remove the shine from a man's wool or gabardine trousers, or your own skirt, place article on a flat surface. Dip a cloth in vinegar; wring out thoroughly. Rub the shiny spot with the cloth, and the spot will disappear. It is not necessary to press the item, and the odor of vinegar should disappear as it dries. Try this, also, when letting down a hem in a wool skirt, where a stubborn crease remains that simply won't come out with ironing. Living room: To preserve the beauty of cut flowers, add two tablespoons vinegar and three teaspoons sugar to each quart of water used for the flowers. Kitchen: Vinegar is useful both in cooking and in cleaning in the kitchen. Put a teaspoon of vinegar in boiling water, and you may boil a cracked egg. Try a little vinegar in the cooking water for poached eggs, too, to keep them from spreading. For light, fluffy rice, add a teaspoon of vinegar to the cooking water. For those of us who dislike the odor of onion on our hands (and who doesn't?), rub vinegar on the hands and the odor will disappear. If too much salt has been added to soup or other food, try adding a teaspoon of vinegar and a teaspoon of sugar and reheating. A mixture of straight vinegar and salt makes an excellent cleaner for fine crystal, as well as for bottles which have become stained or discolored. Allow crystal to stand several hours in the vinegar or overnight, and then rinse in clear water. Stainless steel pans, chrome-plated appliances, such as toasters, refrigerator and freezer handles, etc., shine like new when wiped with a cloth dampened with vinegar. Household cleaning: Add one quarter cup of vinegar to a half bucket of clear, warm water to wash windows and make them sparkle. For varnished or shellacked floors, doors, and woodwork, try this same formula, but be sure your cleaning cloth is wrung out as dry as possible. When it comes to major household facelifting, keep your vinegar bottle handy to remove paint spots from glass and to soften hardened paint brushes. And if you have ever tried to remove old wallpaper from walls, you will appreciate this tip: First, sand wallpaper to allow liquid to penetrate. Next, spray paper with a mixture of one-fourth cup vinegar to each quart of hot water used. Allow to soak about five minutes, and then scrape off. Furniture refinishing and repair: Apply straight vinegar with a paintbrush to rungs of old chairs to loosen and remove old, dried glue. 366 Ham-Noodle Scallop Casserole Anne Marie Astle 1 large onion 3 tbsp. Butter or other shortening " green bell pepper 1 can cream of celery soup 2 slices ham 1 can cream mushroom soup Yc. Wheat flakes or corn flakes 1% c. Water dash of parsley flakes 12 oz. Package egg noodles Dice onion, green pepper, and ham. Cook slowly in butter or other shortening in skillet with tight lid until onion and pepper are tender and ham is lightly browned. Mix in the celery and mushroom soups with the water. Heat thoroughly. Precook noodles; drain, and mix with the above mixture. Pour into buttered casserole; top with slightly crushed wheat flakes or corn flakes and sprinkle with parsley flakes. Dot with butter and bake in 450° oven for 25 minutes. Snickerdoodles (Sugar Cookies ) Myrtle E. Henderson 1 c. Shortening 2% c. Sifted flour 1% c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cream of tartar 2 eggs 1 tsp. Soda Mix together thoroughly. "4 tsp. Salt Sift dry ingredients together and stir into the other mixture. Roll into balls, the size of a walnut, and roll the balls in a mixture of 2 tbsp. Sugar and 2 tsp. Cinnamon. Place 2 inches apart on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned at 4oo° 8 to 10 minutes. ~ — DBaSTCK IOP RT Deo NAB VaNVas aN Pancakes}| With an yate: C& a8 VX lS x) ve |B. < k> we) ae (x AN German apple pancakes: Add Y% c. Applesauce to batter. Serve with butter, cinnamon, Margaret F. Maxwell | powdered sugar, and a teaspoon of heavy sour cream. African banana pancakes: Add % c. Mashed ripe banana to batter. Serve with powdered sugar, sliced bananas, and whipped cream. Fe CAKES have long been a delectable addition to tables all over the world. In their simplest form, a mixture of meal and water baked on a hot stone, they may well have been man's oldest cooked food. There are a few tricks to turning out perfect pancakes every time. Heat your griddle until a few drops of cold water dance on the surface. If two or more tablespoons of fat are used for each cup of liquid, the griddle need not be greased. Add two tablespoons melted or liquid shortening and one egg to package pancake mix, too. Drop batter by the spoonful onto the hot griddle and bake until the top is bubbly all over. Turn only once. There are actually only a few basic recipes for pancakes. A few easy variations in a simple basic recipe are all that is needed to give your pancakes an international accent. Basic Pancake Recipe 1% c. Flour "2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 egg, beaten 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Milk 2 tbsp. Melted fat or salad oil _ _ Sift dry ingredients together. Combine beaten egg, milk, and salad oil. Pour liquid all at once into dry ingredients. Beat only until dry ingredients are moistened. Bake on a hot griddle, and serve with hot maple syrup and butter. Variations Alpine pancakes: Add 3 heaping tsp. Sweetened powdered cocoa mix. Serve piping hot with a scoop of vanilla iee cream on top. Hawaiian pancakes: Add % c. Drained crushed pineapple to batter. Serve with coconut and sliced pineapple. 368 Delicate, thin, crisp, and light, Swedish and French pancakes are made of the same basic ingredients as other pancakes, but in different proportions. French Crepe Suzettes 1 c. Sifted pastry flour 3 eggs" 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 c. Milk Y% tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Salad oil Sift dry ingredients. Gradually add unbeaten eggs, milk, and salad oil, beating until batter is perfectly smooth. Strain. Pour batter, a tablespoon at a time, on " griddle, tilting griddle as batter is poured so as to make a very thin cake. A perfectly round crepe may be made if a small 5" frying pan is used. Fill with strawberry preserves; roll. Serve with melted butter and powdered sugar. Svenska Plottar (Swedish Dessert Pancakes) % c. Sifted flour 3 eggs" 1 tbsp. Sugar 1% c. Milk % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Salad oil Sift dry ingredients. Combine beaten eggs, milk, and salad oil. Add Be ay ingredients, stirring until smooth. Pour batter a tablespoon at a time on wat gri ee or special Swedish griddle, tilting griddle to make a very thin cake. Serve with melte butter sprinkled with sugar, and hot lingonberry or blueberry sauce. 369 SHIRT TALES Shirley Thulin HE tale of a shirt can be a happy one, if the shirttail is used to good advantage after it is discarded by your husband or son. There is a lot of good, sturdy material left in a shirt, even though the collar and cuffs have been worn, turned, and worn through again. There are a number of useful items that can be fashioned from the fabric that remains in the back, front, and upper arms of a shirt, and for only pennies, you can have a "new" blouse for sister, a petticoat for a tot, or a maternity overblouse for yourself. Use white dress shirts, and just add new lace or other trim. First thing to do is to cut the shirt apart along each seam. Then carefully unpick the pockets from the shirt front. Take the buttons off, and save them to use. Cut the cuffs off, and cut up each sleeve along the seams. Now press the pieces flat and discard the scraps. You will have the shirt back, the two front pieces, and both sleeves to work with. Woman's Blouse For the blouse, you will need some lace for trim, and a blouse pattern. Choose a simple pattern that buttons down the front. You can cut the back of the blouse from the back of the shirt, the two front pieces from the corresponding shirt pieces, and there will be enough material in the sleeves for puff sleeves. You can cut a collar from the fabric in the lower sleeve. You may be able to use the original shirt front, if the fabric is still good, thereby eliminating the necessity of making new buttonholes. To do this, place the pattern pieces to include the shirt front (Figure 1). To put the blouse together, follow the directions on the pattern. Then, to finish it off, stitch several perky rows of lace down the front, and trim the sleeves with lace to match. Child's Petticoat A petticoat for the tiny tot of the family can be made for only a few cents worth of lace and a snap or button. Cut a paper pattern, using a petticoat that already fits Figure 1 Figure 2 wa t ' \ 370 the child. If it is a worn petticoat, then unpick the seams and press it flat. Trace around each piece on paper, being sure to allow at least half an inch for seams and one inch for the hem. If the petticoat is not worn, but still usable, then just lay it on the paper and trace around it also, being sure to leave plenty of material for seam and hem allowance (Figure 2). There will be a seam down the back of the finished petticoat. Cut the front of the garment from the back of the shirt, and the two back pieces from the two fronts of the shirt. Cut some bias strips from the shirt sleeves, and bind the neck and armhole edges with the bias strips, leaving one shoulder open to be snapped or buttoned for easy slipping on and off. Stitch some lace to the bottom of the petticoat, all around, as you turn up the hem. Maternity Overblouse While waiting for your baby, you will want several maternity overblouses to wear around the house, and these can be made easily and quickly from a discarded shirt. For the overblouse, don't unpick the shirt. All that is necessary to do is to cut off the collar and the cuffs if they show wear. Then cut the round part off of the shirttail, making it straight across the bottom. Use these pieces to make a new collar, and also new cuffs, if you can't use the original ones. Stitch colorful braid down the front of the shirt, and around the collar and across the edges of the cuffs. You may want to put braid around the bottom edge and up the two side splits (Figure 3). Trim the overblouse as fancy or as plain as you desire. Wear the overblouse with the sleeves pushed up in a casual manner, or you could cut the sleeves off and make them straight and short, or puffed. Add a colorful bow to the front at the neck, and you have an addition to your maternity wardrobe for only a few cents. These items all wash and iron well and will outwear many all-new items. You can also use colored shirts for the blouses. Figure 3 371 Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 5 (ns —_ Tee a - OVNOPsIs: Irene Spe er, who met her husbat to make a dh ut ¢ he lar Id | that had belon " tha ration: the familv. The he con Ciex's Cxendiarh nt Fla ie aeane han? A wer 7 Irene learns to |] old house and to ok "OF it ap | She; her responsibiliti nd f ing progress in helping David t come h | RENE'S head throbbed after hours spent bending over the sewing machine. She straightened, pushing in at the ache in the small of her back with the palms of her hands. She surveyed with satisfaction the neat stack of white squares she had just finished hemming. EJla had come across a real bargain in outing flannel, and had purchased dozens of yards of it. Irene had spent the better part of two days cutting and hemming the soft white lengths. She had had to cancel her order at the local store for a supply of a different type of gauze diapers, but she knew that Ella was right when she said that these, hemmed at home from the flannel, would be serviceable and cost much less. Anyway, Irene thought, there's a feeling of accomplishment in sewing baby things yourself. A sudden spasm made her stiffen sharply. It was gone so quickly 372 that she chided herself inwardly and relaxed again. 'The baby wasn't due for two weeks. Already she was so impatient that every untoward twinge set her on edge. Rising from the machine, she still pushed against her back with her hands. She thought of the inviting expanse of her bed. As she turned to go lie down, she saw Davy standing in the doorway. She had no idea how long he had been there. For some unaccountable reason, the child had steadfastly avoided her since their moment of communion in the nursery. She smiled a welcome. "Come in, Davy." He was carrying his book about babies. She recalled her promise to read it to him and wondered if that was what he wanted. She hesitated to approach him lest she frighten him away again. She looked into his presently expressive eyes. They searched her face for understanding. Her heart wrenched. She read the question there as plainly as if he had spoken. "Do you?" A moment before she had been too tired to think of anything but rest. Now she was intrigued by the glimmering hope that she might somehow span the chasm that separated her from Davy. He nodded almost eagerly. You want me to read to Irene reached toward him, but recognized the movement as a mistake at once. He backed away a step. "May I take the book, then?" she asked quickly. "Where shall we sit to read? It's nice and light here in the window seat." He gave her the book and watched as she sat down at the far end of the window seat. "Would you like to sit beside me?" He shook his head. Irene started to read. The appealing story was aptly written to charm a child. Told from the viewpoint of the brother and sister of the new baby, it outlined each phase of the exciting first day home with the infant. Each part of the baby's routine was illustrated in apt words and charming pictures. At the very last, the baby had been tucked in bed for the night, and the two older children peeped around the nursery room door, blowing kisses to the sleeping wee one. It was indeed a beautiful book. S she read, Irene knew that Davy was inching his way closer and closer to her. At last he was beside her on the window seat. It was obvious that he knew every word of the story by heart. As she closed the pale blue cover on the final page, he sighed deeply and contentedly. He took the book, turned it back to the beginning again, and handed it to Irene to read it over again. She had read it through twice. She was just beginning the third reading when she was gripped by a spasm that she KEEP MY OWN knew was no idle twinge. She caught her breath, and bent low over the book until it passed. She had broken off in the middle of a sentence. When she looked up again, Davy was staring at her, wide-eyed with alarm. She tried to reassure him. "Don't look like that, Davy. I'm all nght, really I am. It was just a little cramp. Come closer, dear. Let's finish the story." Now he rested in the circle of her arm, his head laid on her shoulder. She tried not to hurry. She didn't want to frighten him. It was an unconscious thing, but she was reading rapidly. When at last she closed the book again on the last page, she was breathless. "Davy, the new baby will be here before very long now. Perhaps tonight. May I leave you now to go telephone Dick, and tell Granddad and Ella?" His eyes were wide as he moved over so she could rise. She kissed his cheek impulsively, noting that the void expression had been totally absent during the entire time he had spent with her. Not a trace of that terrible blankness remained. In the confusion that followed, Davy found himself relegated to the background. He didn't understand everything that was going on, but remembered that Irene had said the baby was to be here soon. He assumed, childlike, that all this rushing about was in preparation for that wonderful, long-awaited event. He was content to be forgotten, if he thought of it at all. When Dick arrived home, he was excited and anxious. Even he had forgotten Davy. The usual small 373 MAY 1963 surprise from his pocket was not forthcoming on this unusual day. Later, Dick would remember and regret this small oversight. Actually, Davy accepted it quite easily as another portion of this mystifying day. S they were helping Irene to the car, Ella turned to Dick and said ominously, "Babies have been born in cars on the way to hospitals, Dick. Are you sure you don't want me to come along? I could." "There's no need, Aunt Ella, I'm sure,' Dick replied. "The doctor said it could be hours." Irene rolled down the window of the car. "Where's Davy?" "Davy?" Dick looked about. "I haven't seen him since I got home." "T've got to see him, to say goodbye," Irene cried. "He's been so left out." They heard a tapping on one of the upstairs windows then. Looking up, they saw Davy. He was in the nursery. He lifted his hand in a little wave, and his face boasted a grin that was the closest thing to a normal child's laughter that Irene had ever seen him touch. Her heart contracted. She blew kisses to him through the window as they drove away. His laugh remained glued to his lips until he had faded from her sight. RANDDAD and Ella sat on the terrace waiting until it was Davy's bedtime. He didn't want to go to bed, but Ella gave him his bath and marched him to his room. When she returned to the terrace the chill of an autumn night had settled. Granddad rose. "We'd better wait inside. It's cold here." 374 In the kitchen, they lapsed into a companionable quiet. Outside, a couple of remaining summer crickets sang in desperation, recognizing the advent of winter. The smell of burning fall leaves permeated the air that wafted in the windows. The house rested. Ella halfway dozed. Granddad kept awake by reading. It was close to four o'clock in the morning when the insistent twang of the telephone jerked them into awareness. Granddad answered the demand of the ring. "Hello. Yes, Dick. Yes. What was the trouble? I see Oh, yes... Well, well. It certainly is Everything's all right now? Irene resting? Good, good. He's in bed. I won't guarantee he's asleep. Yes, I will. I'll tell her. She's nght here... Of course, of course.... Drive carefully on the way home. Goodbye." Ella had stood close to him, straining to hear. Her handkerchief was a twisted ball in her hands. "It is a girl," Granddad told her, "over six pounds." "What went wrong? Didn't you say there was some trouble?" "There was a complication.... Ella's hands were shaking. "Complication?" "The baby had a little lung trouble. Dick said the left lung sort of stuck... Refused to inflate. They gave her oxygen at once, inflated it artificially. She's fine now. Dick said the doctor says it's not uncommon. Just a situation that needed the equipment and knowhow of a hospital and its staff... Or the baby could have died." "? Ella's face was working. She was exhausted by the long night of waiting. It was all she could do to restrain her tears. "Here, here, now,"' Granddad said kindly, "don't cry. Dick says everything's fine now. 'The baby's fine, Irene's fine. They're going to name her Kathy Ella, for Dick's mother, and for you." It was too much. Ella burst into tears. With her apron pressed against her face, she ran upstairs. Granddad remained downstairs, waiting for Dick. HE yellow-gray film of dawn was lifting reluctantly when Dick's car pulled into the drive. Granddad rose from where he still sat in the kitchen, and made his way out the side door to greet his grandson. He was astounded to see Davy, still clad in his pajamas, running exuberantly out of the house ahead of him. The child almost tore open the car door and looked inside. Then he looked at Dick. His lower lip trembled. Dick had betrayed him. He had taken Irene away, and he had come home without the baby and without Irene as well. Dick reached toward the child, but Davy pulled away and started to run toward the house. "Wait, Davy, wait," after him. Granddad caught him. "Davy, that's no way to act. Were you looking for Irene and the baby? She's going to stay in the hospital for a few days to rest. The baby will stay there with her. She won't be gone very long. Come now, Dick wants to tell you about the baby." Dick called KEEP MY OWN The appeal was too great. Davy turned in Granddad's arms and looked at his brother. Dick grinned in that one-sided way he had, and took a bag of peanuts from his pocket. "Come on, fella," he said gently. "Irene especially wanted me to tell you about the baby." Davy went into his arms. At the kitchen table, Davy secreted the nuts in his pajama pocket for further enjoyment. Granddad had made hot chocolate, and Davy liked that better than peanuts, so the nuts could wait. He sat on Dick's lap with a large mug of steaming rich, brown liquid in his hands. He had three marshmallows on top of it, and each time he drank some of it, a white marshmallow mustache on his upper lip increased in Size. Dick said, "We've got a little girl, Davy. She's no bigger than a minute. Remember that trout that Granddad caught on the Fourth of July? About the same size as that." Davy's eyes were round with wonder. Dick went on, "She has lots of hair. Blond hair ash blond like yours, Davy." Davy squirmed with pleasure. "And she's probably going to have eyes as dark as that cocoa." AVY peered into the cocoa container. He knew what Dick meant. Eyes like Irene's. Warm and soft and loving. Davy nestled closer to Dick, remembering Irene's eyes. "We're going to name her Kathy. Kathy Ella Spencer. Do you like that?" 375 MAY 1963 Davy thought about it. Then that elfin grin washed over his face. He nodded. Granddad asked, as Davy concentrated on the drink in his mug, "Any more trouble breathing?" "Not a bit. They'll keep her under observation for a day or so, but after that initial scare, everything went smoothly." "Ts Irene pleased? She never said whether she really wanted a boy or a girl." Dick's face mellowed at the mention of his wife. "She's thrilled. She really didn't care which we got. When she heard it was. A girl, she said to tell you that now you've got your spice, Granddad... Whatever that means. Then she said she hoped Davy would be happy, too." They looked at Davy. His empty mug rested in both hands in his lap. He had fallen asleep on Dick's shoulder, evidence that he, too, hadn't slept much the night before. The sticky mustache covered his upper lip. Below that white strip, his mouth turned upwards. The corners were, it seemed, permanently settled in an angelic smile. (To be concluded) Last Bell Margery S. Stewart Laughter erupts from The schoolhouse in Bursts of boys, in winds Of children snatching Last leaves of afternoon. Feet make a joyous demolishment Of silence. Children run Under my hands, Separate tempests. We are discarded suddenly, Globe, pointer, blackboard, And I, the teacher, To gather dust until morning. 376 Mary Lee Myers and Henrietta W. Larsen— Sewing Sisters" Mk Lee Wilson Myers and Henrietta McCloy Larsen, of the Highland Ward in Alpine Stake, are friends who enjoy their home sewing and handwork together, and are devoted members of Relief Society. "Stitches taken together have a double meaning," they say, and their friendship has deepened over the years. Their favorite hobbies are crocheting and quiltmaking. They have designed original patterns for quilt blocks, as well as making many quilts in patchwork, wedding ring, star designs, and other patterns. Mrs. Myers was the first Primary president in Highland Ward, and has worked in Relief Society for many years, having been a visiting teacher "almost always." She is a practical nurse and an excellent seamstress. She has made many. Lovely wedding gowns. Mother of five children, she now has seventeen grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. Mrs. Larsen has worked in Relief Society since 1915, serving in many capacities of leadership. She gave to the Highland Ward the volumes of The Relief Society Magazine back to 1914. She loves genealogical work and has made pedigree charts for 200 ancestors, and has completed thirteen scrapbooks. She also assisted in compiling the ward genealogy book. Since coming to Highland Ward she has made more than 200 quilts. Three of her five children are living, and she has five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. 377 Magazine Honor Roll for 1962 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE greatest increase in subscriptions in the history of The Relief Society Magazine marks the Fiftieth Anniversary of its beginning. There was an increase in subscriptions of 18,334 in 1962 over 1961's total of 183,236. This should be a matter of satisfaction and gratitude to stake and mission, ward and branch presidents, and Magazine representatives. It reflects the opportunity which was afforded to 201,570 sisters in 1962 who subscribed to the Magazine to study the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine and partake of the instructions, warnings, and encouragement of the General Authorities and leaders in Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine is one means — and an important one — of drawing the sisterhood of the Church ever closer in understanding and purpose. The General Board extends its appreciation to every devoted, loyal Relief Society officer who has helped to achieve this outstanding record, and to readers of the Magazine everywhere who support this publication of Relief Society. 'The General Board is grateful for the letters of appreciation which are constantly received from subscribers. It is also thankful to gifted Latter-day Saint women writers who submit their excellent articles, fiction, non-fiction, and poetry to the Magazine. Missions throughout the world express appreciation for the gift subscriptions to the Magazine which come from individuals, stakes, wards, and branches, and are divided equitably among the missions for the use of missionaries, and investigators, and a few sisters in non-English-speaking missions who can read some English. There were 325 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1962, an increase of twenty-two over 1961, and there were 2,593 wards and branches in stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of 249 over 1961 For sixteen consecutive years the South Los Angeles Stake has had the highest percentage of subscriptions. In 1962 they had 232 per cent. They also had the highest number of subscriptions — 1751. The next three highest rating stakes, all in Southern California, were also in high positions last year — Huntington Park, Glendale, and Inglewood. Of the top ten stakes, eight were also in the top ten a year ago. There were this year five from California, two from Nevada, two from Arizona, and one from Idaho. In 1962 there were twenty-two missions on the Honor Roll, the North Central States Mission leading, with 117 per cent; second is Western States Mission, and third the California Mission. Of the top ten, seven are in the United States, and the other three are the Southwest British, Irish, 378 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 and Alaskan-Canadian Missions. The mission with the highest number of subscriptions was the East Central States Mission, with 975. The next nine with the highest number of subscriptions were also in the United States. The addition of color within the pages of the Magazine in 1962, and eight added pages have done much to make the Magazine more appealing and provide new features. 'This has been accomplished without increasing the price of the Magazine, which remains at $2. The appointment of a Magazine representative is a calling ranking in importance with the other offices in Relief Society. Representatives are faithful, devoted sisters, with a knowledge of the contents of the Magazine, and an appreciation for the worth of its contents. The Magazine representative in one ward who achieved the highest percentage in her stake is a housebound sister. Age is not a determining factor — some representatives have served for many years, with continued, outstanding success. The General Board acknowledges the great service performed by Magazine representatives throughout the Church, and commends Relief Society presidents for their foresight in choosing such outstanding women for this important calling in Relief Society. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 232% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 331% Magazine Representative — Imogene Slater Mission North Central States Mission — 117% Mission Magazine Representative — Mary B. Ostvig Mission District Alaska District, Alaskan-Canadian Mission — 158% Magazine Representative —- Leola G. Durrant Mission Branch Sidney Branch — 333% West Nebraska District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative — Gladys A. Dean 379 MAY 1963 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles - 2..222--------:0--000-+- Huntington Park _.22222..2..2..2e-eeeeeeeeeeeeeee es GW ae ee nae anneeeennnnneeneneeeceeeenenene' Inglewood 2-22.22-.2. Ese-eceeeeeee eee eeeeee Las Vegas ------sc---cececneeneecneneereeceeeeeeeees Phoenix North. 22..-.--c--::--s-eeeeeeeeeeeeeeees CTS ee Rexburg Burley..2.22 2122.2--ceeeeeeeeeeeceecee cece ceeneeeeeeeeeeeeees Missions err rrr rrr rrr errr ere eee ----232.-.-Amelia Dellenbach --..190 Rachel Liston ----144 Mildred Robison Janet C. Medina -136 Helen S. Toolson..--129..--Edith M. Alexander -Alva L. Knight.--Beth Moore Joan Knudson -126 Virginia F. Nichols Achieving Ten Highest Percentages North Central States 2.222022 222---2----eeeee--- Western States 20.00.0000... Ee leet eee eee cence Califormia 222.002.2222 2eeeeeeeee eee eeeeece ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee FONG._ --.-- --en-cncenceeneceenceneeneeeneeeenene Southwest British _2 2..0022.22220022222---ee20eeeeeeee Central States -.2 02022.0-02--leeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeee Texas Irish Oe ee ed ee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee wwe Serer ee eee ere eee eee ee ee eee eee errr errr eee..--117..-. Mary B. Ostvig.---114 Ada S$. Christiansen.---105.---Midene McKay Anderson Edith Kraft Lyman E. Laine B. Curtis -. JoAnn Yates __..100 Ruby Knapp 100 Mary E. Brookes 96 Marie M. Weilenmann 96 Zelma R. West er of Subscri tions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1751 East Mesa 1051 Huntington Park 1341 Twin Falls 1013 Glendale 1240 Washington 994 Ensign 1109 /2 Nampa 986 Alpine 1051 Sugar House 983 Ten N {iss ns W ith Highest Number of Subscriptic ns No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions East Central States 975 Florida 649 Northern States 819 North Central States 643 West Central States 768 Gulf States 620 New England 724 Central Atlantic States 580 Northwestern States 672 Eastern Atlantic States 573 Stakes in Which All Wards Received 100% or Over Burley -..----. Virginia F'. Nichols Huntington Park Rachel Liston Canoga Park Ann Whelan Inglewood --Janet C. Medina Denver ----Katherina Belmain Kansas City -Venna T. Witbeck East Idaho Falls Sarah Owens Lake View Orla S. Bunot Granger -+. Althora P. Sizemore Las Vegas ----Helen S. Toolson Granite - -.--Jane Henry Las Vegas North Carrie G. Beatty Holladay Delight T. Frampton Long Beach Erma G. Halls 380 Malad +.2++-Maude Y. Jensen Monument Park Ruth B. Parkinson North Jordan Vonda L. Sharp North Tooele Mildred Sagers Parleys - -.----Genevieve M. Lewis Phoenix North Edith M. Alexander Pomona - Nora Perdue Rexburg -- Beth Moore St. Joseph - Nira P. Lee San Bernardino Naomi B. Mansfield San Diego Joan Knudson San Joaquin Emma Dennis MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 Shelley - 2.0.+--June L. Walton So. Cottonwood Anna V. Lindman So. Idaho Falls Alice Moss So. Los Angeles Amelia Dellenbach So. Salt Lake - Hannah Dietrich Temple View Mabel E. Snow ital oeeeEffie J. Pinegar Wells ------Gertrude Fullmer West Covina Lucille C. Hales Whittier - 0 Melba J. Huff Wilford 2.222.002 Lila F. Madsen Woodruff - Naomi B. Harris Mission Percentages on Honor Roll North Central States 117 Irish 100 East Central States 88 Western States 114 Alaskan-Canadian 96 Northwestern States 86 California 105 Eastern States 96 Central Atlantic States 85 Florida 102 West Central States 95 Eastern Atlantic States 85 Southwest British 102 Western Canadian 93 Northern States 82 Central States 102 Canadian 92 New England 81 Texas 100 Central British 89 Gulf States 78 Southern States 78 Stakes by Percentages —1962 South Los Angeles = 23:2 Nyssa 112 East Long Beach 107 Huntington Park 190 San Joaquin 112 Nampa 107 Glendale 144 Mt. Graham 112 Napa 107 Inglewood 144 Walnut Creek 112 Redwood 107 Las Vegas 136 Long Beach 111 Monument Park 107 Phoenix North 129 Whittier 111 Chicago 107 Phoenix 127 Liberty 110 Idaho Falls 107 Rexburg 126 San Bernardino 110 Kansas City 107 San Diego 126 Highland 109 Reseda 107 Burley 126 Oquitrh 109 Santa Monica 107 San Diego East 122 Canoga Park 109 Ashley 106 Mojave 121 North Rexburg 109 Alaska 106 Cumorah 121 Palomar 109 Utah 106 South Idaho Falls 120 Woodruff 109 Box Elder 106 Shelley 118 Redondo 108 Moapa 106 Santa Barbara 117 San Luis Obispo 108 North Box Elder 105 Lake View 115 South Bear River 108 Cassia 105 St. Joseph 115 Ensign 108 Panguitch 105 Holladay 115 Temple View 108 Torrance 105 East Idaho Falls 114 West Boise 108 Florida 105 Denver 114 Yuma 108 Parleys 104 Las Vegas North 113 Pomona 108 Twin Falls 104 Reno 113 San Fernando 108 West Sharon 104 San Diego South 113 Toronto 108 Grant 104 MAY 1963 Maricopa Pasadena Millcreek Granite Juab Bear River Granite Park Great Falls Weiser Mt. Jordan Denver West East Mesa Grand Junction Garden Grove Pocatello Virginia Wells Mt. Logan Granger South Salt Lake New Jersey Orange County Wilford Malad Sugar House Ogden North Jordan South Cottonwood Taylor Blackfoot Minidoka North Tooele San Jose Calgary Edmonton Idaho Mt. Rubidoux Pikes Peak Franklin Columbia River North Pocatello West Utah East Rigby New York East Phoenix Big Hom 382 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 Sevier Palmyra Tucson Union Juarez West Pocatello Zion Park East Los Angeles Los Angeles Philadelphia Boise Farr West North Idaho Falls Park Ammon Monterey Park Portneuf Young Columbus Spanish Fork Weber Heights Wind River Bannock Snowflake South Blackfoot Star Valley East Pocatello Olympus Reno North St. Louis Burbank San Antonio Taylorsville Emigration Portland Oakland-Berkeley Casper Rigby Tulsa Valley View Boston Uintah Cheyenne Roy Uvada 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Yellowstone St. George Albuquerque Gridley East Cache Riverton Gooding American River Mesa Lethbridge El Paso Fresno St. Johns North Sacramento Grand Coulee Seattle Alberta Sacramento Richland Cedar North Davis Rose Park Southern Arizona Cottonwood Santa Rosa Provo Teton Missoula South Summit Ben Lomond Brisbane Cleveland St. George East Beaver North Seattle Deseret Covina American Falls Puget Sound Cincinnati Detroit East Provo Lake Mead Riverside Salt Lake Sydney Logan Oneida Cache University West Cedar West Raft River Willamette Wichita Tooele Vancouver Lyman Benson Montpelier Blaine Murray South Humboldt Santa Ana Butte Winder Oklahoma Wasatch Bountiful South Hillside San Leandro Kolob Santaquin-Tintic Wayne Nebo Kanab Kaysville Cannon East Sharon Timpanogos Alpine Dallas Granger North Sharon Minnesota Springville Shreveport Roosevelt Tacoma Bakersfield Melbourne Moroni Taber Craig Grantsville North Weber East Millcreek Mt. Ogden Canyon Rim New Orleans Hayward Garfield Lansing Murray Weber Duchesne Salmon River Clearfield West Jordan Bountiful Butler South Davis North Sevier Emery Morgan Millard Sandy Summit Riverdale Coeur d'Alene Bear Lake Beaumont San Mateo North Carbon East Jordan Lewiston Houston Pioneer Bountiful North Flagstaft Nevada Smithfield Klamath Lehi Redding San Francisco East Ogden Leicester Lorin Farr MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 Yakima Auckland Winter Quarters Honolulu Parowan San Luis South Sevier Atlanta South Sanpete Layton South Ogden Greensboro Kearns North Midvale Tampa Palo Alto South Carolina North Sanpete San Juan London Spokane Salem Orem Miami Fort Wayne Kearns Carbon North Carolina Orem West Orlando Gunnison Hamilton Ben Lomond South Indianapolis Manchester Oahu Leeds Pearl Harbor Limited Participation B. Y. U. Lst B. Y. U. 2d B. Y. U. 3d University Utah State U. 383 384 Relief Society Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Brisbane Burbank: — EnrollSubscriptions ment 189 747 538 No. 201 692 509 1216 1051 361 680 500 500 461 367 564 365 506 535 244 560 570 628 915 715 296 678 876 301 630 - 616 555 | 874. 212 ~ 128 326 637 493 532 355 286 480 357 407 553 196 510 522 554 921 728 261 675 957 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1962 Pet. 106 93 95 86 90 94 99 106 77 78 85 98 80 104 80 91 92 88 101 102 88 100 109 287% 96 518 487 82 79 485% 87 924 194 706 106 92 97 Magazine Representative Uarda Conner Viola B. Wynder Nita W. Bushman Marvel Sunderland Erminnie Johnson Norma Pezely Violet Wakley Barsalena R. Hatch Lucille Bennett Marguerite Jean Ottley June Davies Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Billye L. Eoff Aletha Gillins Florence B. Campbell Jenis A. Traveller Phyllis Borders Helen B. Evans Vera E. Clifford Effie Baxter Grace B. Larsen Della Stevens Chaplin Jessie J. Terry Columbia L. Argyle Lucille F. Mason Hazel A. Nelson Elsie E. Orth Joy Earl Relief Society Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Cincinnati Clearfield Cleveland Coeur D'Alene Columbia River Columbus Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 739 444 551 680 508 547 325 877 200 399 395 447 370 718 262 675 330 2738 798 260 439 584 238 278 465 489 589 743 402 402 No. 931 365 483 607 517 473% 354 731% 192 419 356° 398 353 768 236 557 301 220 806 255 404 528 201 330 402 556 608 673 361 333 126 82 88 89 102 87 109 83 96 105 92 89 95 107 90 83 91 81 101 98 92 90 84 121 86 114 103 91 90 83 Magazine Representative Virginia F. Nichols Gladys R. Loveless Harriet Millecam Norma J. Thompson Thelma Thompson Elda L. Hailes Ann Whelan Ruth Rushforth Sophronia. Bertagnole Valoy Casperson Eva B. Webster Irene C. Palmer Vera B. Gutscher Verl J. Fitzsimmons Mary Tolle Ella N. Christensen Ruth A. Laney Effie E. Verhei Agnes G. Hill Luise Myers Isabell T. Nelson Gladys I. Barker Nellie J. Crosby Margaret G. Stoner Ella Mae Beck Katherina Belmain Phyllis Mohler Leatha Bennett Grace McCallum Ardath R. Johansen MAY 1963 Relief Society East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millereek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North % Granite EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 897 844% 94 526 599 114 430 343 80 646 694 107 702 701 100 1019 1051 103 724 608 84 775 609 '179 829 101 562 98 574 90 637 101 586 87 309 102 469 93 710 580 82 559 539% 97 1027 1109% 108 646 639 99 526 416 79 593 621 105 814 826 101 "ai @i & 330 340 103 298 248 88 860 1240 144 642 602 94 603 561 93 447 461 103 359 369 103 525 451% 86 635 659% 104 823 576 639 631 677 304 502 Magazine Representative Elizabeth E. Steed Sarah Owens LoVenna S. Cook Ethel M. Lemons Shirley M. Hoffman Elva M. Brown Mary J. Olsen Katherine W. Ecenkbrecht Geneva Cluff Norma Adams Arda S. Hendricks Myrtle Burtenshaw Hildegard P. Nicholes Grace V. McCurdy Fanny G. Maxwell Edith Collard Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Mary L. Kremer Vera Williams Edna P. Lemmon Muriel E. Welton Naida M. McInelly Dorma P. Barton Mildred Robison Viola Gold Amy Kent Lanor Rowe Althora P. Sizemore Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Relief Society Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Houston Humboldt Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas North Layton Lehi > a LnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 648 672 104 826 861 104 546 460 84 379 393 104 346 265 77 721 680 94 420 350 83 580 634% 109 10385 905 87 695 797% 115 645 499 17 304 241 79 232 204 88 707 1341 190 720 641% 89 535 460 86 578 617 107 611 877 144 540 561 104 102 102 100 525 456 87 462 493 107 557 484 87 519 395 76 581 457 179 631 549 87 481 432 90 413 475 115 328 273 88 589 803 136 549 623 113 909 699 17 706 555% 79 Magazine Representative Lythia Street Ruth Dudley Abbie K. Paskett_ Glenna MacDonald Ruby L. Braddoch Vera Allred Rose Winkel Lucille M. Larsen Mae M. Hickman Delight T. Frampton Michiye Kanashir Ida B. Sneider Della Monson Rachel Liston Rhoda M. Thorpe Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Janet C. Medina Reba P. Mangelson Fannie B. Hatch Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Witbeck Adelia H. Rushforth LaVeigh T. Atwood Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Orba S. Bunot Faye Detro Helen S. Toolson Carrie G. Beatty Bernice S. Earl Rosa Ashton MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 386 Relief Society Leicester Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Malad Maricopa Melbourne Mesa Midvale Millard Millcreek Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West 652 Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan a STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1962 EnroliSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 270 212 79 606 567 94 292 232 79 742 812% 110 590 528 89 637 709 111 754 592 79 667 665 100 324 327 101 5138 453 88 588 603 103 834 869 104 358 305 85 1030 965 94 770 585% 76 663 536 81 468 486% 104 739 753 102 418 355 86 501 459 92 298 315 106 494 598 121 391 385% 99 794 701 88 481 515 107 624% 96 362 295 81 385 326 85 670 749 112 449 464 103 Magazine Representative Glenda M. Orr Beulah Manser ReNae B. Larsen Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Berntson Erma G. Halls Marva N. Ralph Verda M. Cohen Edna M. Hansen Vera Hutchison Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Teresa E. Harrison Myrna E. Skousen Hazel Anderson Leah D. Wood Martha J. H. Matern Cleo B. Thompson Winifred M. Durant Beulah S. Olson Era C. Jones Alice Brendies Lilly B. Lovejoy Lola McCammon Ruth B. Parkinson Betty March Romona T. Dickson Betty A. Cook Flora John Norma G. Erickson Relief Society Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 776 798% 103 660 552 84 542 550 102 627 521% 88 880 774% 88 918 986 107 443 476 107 623 542 87 424 335 79 335 344 103 309 258 83 411 414% 101 891 936% 105 604 483 80 724 669% 92 804 794 99 671 686 102 680 687 101 682 742 109 476 444 98 690 520% 75 694 650 91 428 350 82 487 496 102 636 533 84 544 546 100 463 520% 112 807 777 96 683 700 102 344 301 88 Magazine Representative Lola H. Gibbons Jona Hazen Alice W. Malstrom Mabell A. Smith Lois Madsen Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona §S. Crouch May Probert Dorothy Keatley Gloria Phillips Thyra Stoddard Hilda R. Forrest Parthenia H. Rhead Helen W. Barber Lucy Bingham Vonda L. Sharp Rosalie N. Taylor Myrtle B. Park Ruth M. Moses Ruth E. Erickson Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred Sagers Nellie Opheikens Manilla J. Corse Orpha Robinson LaVon B. Johnson Chloe F. Summerill Mildred Luther MAY 1963 Relief Society Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portneuf Provo Puget Sound Raft River Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland " Rigby R Riverdale EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 710 671 633 599 689 655 304 500 783 481 -389 801 330 600 736 326 620 496 414 965 506 542 515 182 328 530 232 463 375 503 700 672 830 759 No. 692 600 692 615 691 A497 330 525 772 502% 300 - 833% 329 762 949 331% 491 511 447 931 498 498 465% 162 258 575 249 524 364 537 885 622 797 613 97 89 109 1038 100 16 109 105 99 104 17 104 100 127 129 102 79 103 108 96 98 92 90 89 79 108 107 113 97 107 126 93 96 81 Magazine Representative Glenna B. Brown Verneta Larson Cleo K. Hales Ruth M. Clark Belma J. Jex Alta M. Hart Amaretta H. Graves Beth R. Tebbs Pearl E. Rohde Genevieve M. Lewis Mary L. Stubbs Zelma McCune Pauline G. Bishop Alva L. Knight Edith M. Alexander Dorothy L. Newton Rura J. Woodall Alice J. Brandt Nora Perdue Arelie Reznick Idonna M. Brower Deseret Bullock Selena Fern Burbidge Ann Nye Maxine Hansen Eileen G. Berg Minnie W. Herrin Doris Young Laura Elaine Jones Winona Mordue Beth Moore Erma E. Berg Ora Stallings Rhoda W. Priest Relief Society Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle, lSubscriptions = ment 687 480 575 826 538 682 479 519 525 546 309 187 796 279 738 752 310 390 681 478 745 607 732 414 535 353 627 829 375 416 794 593 383 810 No. 616% 452 493 764 511 632 454 473% 490 626 300 155 714 270 814 951 378 439} 734 376 838 618 552 361 413 383 502 670% 329 485 845 546 333% 753 94 86 92 95 93 95 91 93 115 97 83 90 97 110 126 122 113 108 C 79 112 102 75 87 717 108 80 81 88 117 107 92 87 93 Reprenentative Bess Davis Blanche B. Densley Ona W. Taylor Helen M. Shelton. Helen R. Russell Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva Graf Agnes S. Pickett Jane Miller Nira P. Lee Dorothy A. Dubree Keturah Moultrie Frances L. Kooyman Lorene Ricker Naomi B. Mansfield Joan Knudson Reha Gale Beba Berg Elva Kershaw Elizabeth Buckley Emma Dennis Barbara R. Simmons Eloise B. Mahon Mary C. McDonald Hazel G. Haynie Voneta M. Peterson R. Elaine Pendleton Louise R. Neff Ethel Blood Colleen M. Dial Helen Wilkinson Verna F. Baldwin Ella H. Sandstrom Laura G. Bronner MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 388 Relief Society Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Carolina South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sydney Taber Tacoma Tampa Taylor Taylorsville Temple View STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1962 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 865 868% 100 472 406 86 794 935% 118 416 357 86 741 586 79 732 716 98 677 733 108 f> Wi 98 670 506 76 415 423 102 983 807% 82 455 545% 120 756 1751 232 549 422 17 A472 485 103 800 616 77 455 351 177 431 395 92 384 354 92 680 666% 98 681 585% 86 687 671 98 959 983 103 370-299 381 325 291% 90 394 333 85 406 346 85 303 230 76 729 743 102 496 479% 97 758 819 108 Magazine Representative Maneta Hansen Addie G. Edwards June L. Walton Bertie F. Sentilles Sadie B. Elder Lucilia S. Peterson Vilate Archibald Agnes D. Cox Fannie Thornton Anna V. Lindman Verla N. Ridges Alice Moss Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Iris D. Anderson Vera Smith Josephine S. Wagstaff Maud B. Post Alene T. Meldrum Donetta Anthon Maurine T. Harrison Nellie J. Ehlers Clara Copley Mrs. M. Shrimpton Emma B. Harris Nettie Blake Aretta L. Booth Ruth Hovey Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Relief Society Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 533 489% 92 854 739 87 512 453 88 463 498 108 489 513 105 593 594 100 268 257 96 971 1013 104 461 440% 96 584 585 100 691 616% 89 572 608% 106 310 294 95 642 615 96 302 267 88 499 514 108 737 823 112 809 708 8&8 991 994 100 340 296 87 739 614 88 603 591 98 596 617 104 908 935 1038 735 794 108 633 655 103 638 526 82 518 518 100 433 452 104 728 736 531 591 Magazine Representative Bertha C. Gillette Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy Higdon Belva Jones Beverly Johnson Carrie Webb Mabel B. Goodrich Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Effie J. Pinegar Martha H. Bleak Dorie N. Walton Edna M. Mitchell Cassandra L. Waddoups Marie D. Barber Ruby Price Hicken Rubye D. Mikesell Ruth Taylor Gonda DeBoer Alma M. Peterson Vena M. Anderson Gertrude Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta Holmes Ethel S. Taylor Carol B. Adamson Melba J. Huff MAY 1963 Relief Society ment 222 644 432 146 520 321 Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters No. 197 661 384 143 456 249 EnrollSubscriptions Pct. 89 103 89 98 88 78 Magazine Representative Marcella Meador Lila F. Madsen Mary Ann Lamoreaux Carol Fisher. Charlottie B. Poulton Marvel Speering Relief Society Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 599 254 828 642 207 406 No. 650 199 785 632 321 406 Pct. 109 78 95 98 108 100 Magazine Representative Naomi B. Harris Leah K. Koelling Leola Beddes Iva Sterling Effie Nowland Pearl Stratton MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL-1962 Magazine Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Pet. Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions No. Pet. W oo wo ment 422 237 Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian 500 Central Atlantic States 682 Central British 323 Central States 398 East Central States 1176 Eastern Atlantic States 675 Eastern States 347 Florida 634 405 250 459 580 289 405 975 573 332 649 96 105 92 85 89 102 88 85 96 102 Representative Marie M. Weilenmann Midene McKay Anderson Jane Morrow Rella Burch White Grace G. Cullimore Mary L. R. Player Martha D. Lasseter Helen Hatch Zelma R. West Edith Kraft Lyman Gulf States Irish New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States Southern States Southwest British Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States 790 109 893 549 995 18 725 235 402 810 222 409 620 109 724 643 819 672 564 240 403 768 206 468 78 100 81 117 82 86 78 102 100 95 93 114 Representative Marie C. Richards Sandra M. Covey Alberta S. Baker Mary B. Ostvig Mary. Maycock Geneal L. Wood Elva G. Ravsten Elaine B. Curtis Ruby Knapp Hazel K. Woolley Carolyn Smith Ada S. Christiansen MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1962 FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Raft River Stake (Utah) Retiring Relief Society Officers Honored at Luncheon, December 29, 1962 Retiring board members, seated, left to right: Viola Wight, Secretary-Treasurer; Thera Harper, President; Myrtle Miller, First Counselor. Standing, left to mght: Alice Neddo, Magazine representative; Lona Hepworth, visiting teacher message leader; Lois Elison, literature class leader; Lois Smith, social science class leader; Gladys Hill, work meeting leader. Absent when the picture was taken were: Helen Kelsey, Second Counselor; Faun King, chorister; Bonnie Lloyd, orgamist; and Rita Holtman, theology class leader. Clara Bevler, newly appointed President, Raft River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A luncheon was held December 29, 1962, honoring the retiring presidency and board members of the Raft River Stake Relief Society. In appreciation for her years of faithful service each sister was presented with a corsage. Besides the honored guests, those in attendance were the new stake officers and board members, President Edwin H. Paskett, of Raft River Stake, and the officers and teachers of all the ward Relief Societies in the stake." Woodruff Stake (Utah and Wyoming) Officers at Visiting Teacher Convention, February 15, 1963 Left to right: Elna Croft, chorister; Amy Mulford, organist; Gweneth Johnson, literature class leader; Clara Schomss, theology class leader; Florence Smith, Work Director Counselor; Charlotte M. Burleigh, President; Jeanette Hopkinson, visiting teacher message leader; Minnie Lowham, social science class leader; Clara Griggs, Secretary; Alpha Richins, work meeting leader; Naomi Harris, Magazine representative. Sister Zelda Jannson, counselor, was not present. Sister Burleigh reports: ""The Woodruff Stake Relief Society held a very successful visiting teacher convention, February 15, 1963. Former Relief Society stake presidents, sisters eighty years of age and over, and visiting teachers having thirty-five or more years of service were presented with a corsage. Souvenir bookmarks were presented to all the sisters present. The table was decorated with small cherry trees and _ silver hatchets. The flower centerpiece was red, white, and blue. The narration "Toward Ideal Womanhood' was presented and enjoyed by all. The Woodruff Ward Singing Mothers presented special music for the occasion, and Elder Lawrence B. Johnson, President, Woodruff Stake, addressed the group."' 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD ii ea? MAY 1963 % Y. =, O29 aye Central American Mission, Singing Mothers of Guatemala Present Music for First Women's Conference February 23, 1963 Standing at the right in the front row: First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency of Relief Society; standing at the left in the front row: Nina B. Brewer, President, Central American Mission Relief Society; chorister Berta Lopez stands at the right of Sister Brewer. Back row, fourth from the left: Hortensia Torres, Supervisor of Relief Society for the Mission. Sister Brewer reports: "Sponsored by the Relief Society of the Central American Mission, the first conference for the women of the Church and their friends was held in Guatemala February 23, 1963. This conference brought together more than 200 women, along with the district and branch Priesthood officials. Special guest at the conference was Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society. 'During' the morning meeting Sister Sharp emphasized the importance of Relief Society in the lives of Latter-day Saints, and the greatness of the visiting teacher program in the Church. This meeting was held for the benefit of officers and teachers of Relief Society and the Priesthood officials who work with them. "An afternoon meeting was open to all women of the Church and their friends, in addition to those who attended the morning session. The program included numbers by the Singing Mothers of Guatemala, a brief history of Relief Society in Central America, a dramatization of 'Builders of the Kingdom,' by Luacine Clark Fox, presentation of a Relief Society necklace to Sister Hortensia Torres for her long and faithful work in Relief Society, and words of encouragement and instruction from Sister Sharp. "After the second meeting, an exhibition of native arts and crafts was opened to the people. The sisters had redecorated their Relief Society room in honor of the occasion. Exhibited were_paintings by several of the women, typical dresses and other articles of clothing, lovely flower creations, a hooked rug, mosaic pieces, and many other articles of beauty. Outstanding was a banner in Relief.. Society colors, showing the Relief Society seal done in fine embroidery work by oneof the sisters. "The Central American Mission was organized in November 1952, under the direction of the First Presidency, by Elder Spencer W. Kimball, who was accompanied by Elder Bruce R. McConkie of the First Council of Seventy. During its ten years of existence, the membership of the mission has grown to include over 10,000 members. Approximately 180 missionaries are in the field at the present time. "Particularly outstanding in this mission are the faith, testimony, and devotion of the sisters to the gospel of Jesus Christ." 392 NOTES FROM THE FIELD P: sa xz: 5 =: Phoenix Stata f{Arizvanna) Hameamatlklarce f L_cletmeacssn fe Ld 4 ed ' Left to right: Zona Waldie; Fern Shumway; Florence Broberg. Ruth O. Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports: '"Grandma's attic was one of the main features of the fair, displaying many useful and attractive articles made from old clothing. Wards and branches in the stake cooperated with gaily decorated booths of handmade articles and baked goods. 'The entire hall was beautifully decorated in the Christmas theme. Demonstrations of textile painting, cake decorating, flower arranging, gift wrapping, quilting, modeling of homemade clothing, and doll making were held at intervals during the afternoon. "The education and Magazine department booths were centers of attraction, receiving favorable comments from the many nonmembers who attended. Our theme 'Add years to your life; add life to your years through Relief Society activity,' on a poster in Relief Society colors, was placed above the booths. Hot doughnuts. And cider were served during the afternoon to the very large crowd that attended. "It was an excellent missionary project, bringing many nonmembers to see Relief Society in action. Invitations were sent to all the women's clubs and church groups in Phoenix, as well as to active and inactive members of the Church. 'The newspapers gave us a big write-up, along with a picture. The fair was under the direction of Work Director Counselor Marie Heywood and work meeting leader Florence Broberg."' i & g; |g 393 MAY 1963 Utah State University Stake Singing Sisters Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference, February 3, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Dr. Ezra Cragun, High Council representative; Mary Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Nadine Smith, chorister; Mary Christensen, organist; Gwen J. Miner, President, Utah State University Stake Relief Society; Elder Reed C. Bullen, President, Utah State University Stake. Sister Miner reports: ""We have fourteen wards in the Utah State University Stake, eight wards made up of unmarried students, and six of married students. All of the wards were represented in this chorus." Sister Miner's Counselors are Coralle Knight and Yvonne Fillmore. The Secretary is Fern Nelson. Juarez Stake (Mexico) Visiting Teacher Convention January 24, 1963 Fannie B. Hatch, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: ""This group was thrilled with the presentation of 'A Light Shining,' presented first in Spanish, and then repeated in English. The evening was spiritual in nature, as the dramatization stressed in a new way love for and devotion to visiting teaching. To encourage quality performance, the stake board awarded in the convention choice books to those achieving records of 100 per cent in sacrament service attendance, visiting teacher meeting attendance, and visiting teaching. It was a joy to see the sisters receive the books. One native sister was thrilled with the Bible, the book of her choice, a treasure she had longed for. The happy moments of the evening will linger long and warm our hearts as we work, knowing that Relief Society blesses our homes in Juarez Stake through visiting teaching." Chicago Stake (Illinois) Ward and Branch Relief Society Presidents January 13, 1963 Front row, left to nght: Doris Groot, First Counselor, University Ward; Marjorie Oblad, President, South Shore Ward; Naomi Graves, President, North Shore Second Ward; Reta Otis, First Counselor, Chain O'Lakes Ward; Edna Larson, President, Racine Branch; Gladys Sullivan, President, Aurora Branch. Standing, left to right: Helena Belnap, President, DeKalb Branch; Betty Maule, First Counselor, Elgin Branch; Caroline Tegtmeier, President, Milwaukee Ward; Marva Lu Egbert, President, Chicago Heights Ward; Irma Mortensen, President, West Suburban Ward; Mildred Hilbig, President, Milwaukee Second Ward; Beryle A. Nisbet, President, West Suburban Ward; Geneva Young, President, Logan Square Ward; Hertha Rathke, President, West Allis Ward; Jaroldeen Edwards, President, North Shore Ward. Jasmine R. Edmonds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports that this was the last picture taken of the sixteen ward Relief Society officers before the division of Chicago Stake into three stakes on February 3, 1963. Sister Edmonds reports that "These lovely sisters have done much to aid in the growth of the Church in this area." 394 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 395 MAY 1963 gm fl roa R sun, 1. ° rr ° Oylwmaniie beak | veil Ral at SGargiaty | Board Honors Ward Presidencies Front row, seated, left to right: First Counselor Verna Lue C. Gledhill; President Evelyn B. Henriksen; Second Counselor Iola J. Peterson; Secretary-Treasurer Thora W. King. Back row, standing, left to right: Glenna B. Brown, Magazine representative; Jean J. Goff, visiting teacher message leader; Zetta C. Tholen, theology class leader; Marilyn C. Williams, literature class leader; Helen G. Rees, social science class leader; Donna W. Tanner, chorister; Faye D. Beazer, work meeting leader; Jennie T. Hintze, organist. Sister Henriksen reports: "Each year preceding our lesson season, the stake Relief Society board entertains all ward presidencies in order to promote a feeling of friendship, love, and cooperation among the wards. This year we had as our theme "The Wheel,' and as our motto 'Help Our Wheel Roll in the Right Direction." Our luncheon tables carried out the theme by being placed so as to form a wheel, a round table as the hub, and long tables as the spokes of the wheel. We also had a wheel made of gold and blue with the General Board of Relief Society as the hub, and the stake Relief Society as the rim. As each ward presidency was introduced, we placed their spoke in our wheel, until all nine wards were represented. The members of the stake board were introduced as wheels in our Relief Society locomotive, with the presidency serving as the steering wheel. "Drucilla Bott, who had recently returned from Australia, was our guest speaker. Truly we felt the sisterhood of Relief Society on this day, as is always the case when the women of our stake meet together in this capacity. We are grateful for our callings in this organization, and appreciate the guidance given through the General Board, and through the inspiration of the Lord." 396 ine) Li Catherine B. Bowles Rippling, laughing brooklet Across the meadow sings Painting vale and valley With beauties that it brings. Kisses wilted flowers, Touches the bank with green, On the sloping edges The buttercups are seen. The stream of life flows ever on Over places smooth or steep, Soothing the heavy laden, Helping the wandering sheep; Bringing peace where sorrow Has dimmed the darkened day. The sun still shines brightly Dark clouds must pass away. Amazing NEW! MAGNIFYING GLASS ADJUSTABLE Magna SPECIAL GIFT FOR A LOVED ONE Helps You See Better Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious jobs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a lady's purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses Reading. Needlepoint. Sewing. Removing slivers. Crocheting. Threading needle. Price $4.95 postpaid DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Cabs Loo on) Spd SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES — ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 i. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 i GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin.25 oo HEAVENS ARE TELLING —Haydn 20. 25 ae. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen -.-..25 —_ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster.25 LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert _.20 OPEN OUR EYES Macfarlane ___ -..00--.0-20.-0.-.25 STILL, STILL WITH THEE—Madsen 23d PSALM—Schubert 25 UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah i { \ Please send the music indicated above. | | CL) On Approval ([] Charge [1 Money Enclosed Name I Daynes Masic | TNAIASTAAIN Ate 15 E. Lst South? Salt Lake City 11, Utah > Q a a C " wn — ewe e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00. 35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 45 e 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 64 1400 to 1800 miles 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Portland Rose Festival and Parade Leaves June 12 Northwest, Canadian Rockies, Lake Louise & Banff Tour, etc. Leaves June 22 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Leaves July 24 Black Hills Passion Play Tour Leaves August 17 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 398 Zippy, the Zions Savings Bug, Says for your money' at ZS&L!" e Savings deposited by the 20th of any month and left on deposit 'til June 30, 1963, earn from the Ist of that month. Big 444% per year current rate earnings are compounded twice a year so that the earnings earn earnings. Your savings are insured to $10,000 by the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp., a permanent agency of the U. S. Government. Never in its 79-year history has Zions Savings & Loan failed (even in depression times) to pay a dividend to each of its savings customers. You have a choice of savings plans a Savings Certificate Plan, a Regular Savings Plan, even a unique Savingsplus-Insurance program all paying 44%% yearly dividends. Of per yea Y =i Utah's First Savings & Loan Ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association @eeeeaeeoeoeeeee 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays 'til noon @eaeeeeeeeoeoeeee After First Grief Maude Rubin How sudden is the hour of ice, Of frosted fern. Can the heart renew hope's sweet device, Can the mind re-learn? We walked together through a land Of butterflies... Shimmer of June. Now, wintered and cold, mv heart is bound In a tight cocoon. Oh, out of this chrysalis of night Let bright wings lift To ride another summert's light, Time's golden gift! The Moon Is Full Evalyn Sandberg How sweetly sleeps the world tonight All wrapped in luminosity And patterned shade. How sweetly from the thickets Soprano-chirping crickets Are raising repetitious serenade. In soft, legato cadences A song of surcease lifts And fills the ear. And peace, made nearly visible — A presence almost palpable — Reposes here. Hawaiian Tours June and November, 1963 Mexican Tour Leaving June 1 Orient Tour Leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 GOLD MEDALLION HOME A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. OO ealer x 399 ( ° ° Mrs. Hattie AMELIA RusHLow FostTER Belleville, Ontario Canada Mrs. RosentA MarsHALL ELLIS Bountiful, Utah ] ~ Mrs. LotsaBARTON WHITTAKER Circleville, Utah Mrs. Bopett C. HANSEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Saran Martie Rew ALEXANDER Osawatomie, Kansas R ratwetOonr Mrs. Nancy HAMMER MATHEWS Shelley, Idaho '~rTe — netv-three 4 I - Mrs. -CAROLINE FREDRICKSEN JORGENSEN Mt. Pleasant,. Utah Mrs. Matrie F. Pettis ALLEN El Monte, California Mrs. Ipa J. McELDOWNEY Norwalk, California Mrs. Saran Hoce GILeEs Morgan, Utah Mrs. Resecca ALLPHIN ORTON Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Potty WALKER Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. Mary E. GreENWELL FARLEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ciara CUMMINGS SHIELDS Fillmore, Utah Mrs. HENRIETTA WATKINS BARBEN Delta, Utah Miss AppiE WALSH Belleville, Ontario Canada Mrs. EMMA BuTLerR MAXFIELD Bakersfield, California Mrs. SarAH RAMSDEN BENJAMIN San Francisco, California Mrs. OLEAN SmitTH RICE Farmington, Utah Ninety Mrs. ANNIE WILSON MaArTIN Magnolia, Florida Build Strong Ursula King Bell Build your foundation upon the rock of truth, And endeavor to steer a straight course, Regardless of the waves of discontent and discouragement, Which day by day batter away at your rock. Take heart! Remember! There is always the lighthouse Of strength to guide you through the storms of life. 400 new! From Deseret Book A rich, new book Studded with quotations from Many of the General Authorities of the Church — both past and present. The;:. Compiler of this Work js Chairman of the BYU Educational] Week" Program for 1963. Here is absorbing reading for al]! MILY $295 rEADERSHl:: Deseret Book Company, l 44 East South Temple, Salt lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find check |money order |. I have an account, please Charge. Amount en- | closed $ 00for encircled book numbers: 1 2 | ee ee | ——— [ es Zone. State. | Residents of Utah Include 3% Sales Tax | Your responsibilities grow along with your family. Each family addition brings new joys — and new needs. Among these is space. Perhaps you've remodeled your present home to add more rooms. Or you may have purchased recently, or considered purchasing, a larger home. However you plan to provide the space for living that your family needs don't overlook another important How about your Beneficial; Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah Mortgage Insurance; responsibility: that of making sure they'll always have the home you want for them - and not just the memory of it. Beneficial Life Mortgage Insurance can make all the difference. And it costs so little when compared with the peace of mind that comes with it. Ask your Beneficial Life man for details. —— ICIAL LLFE Srscanee ae) nd Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Mie) Lake City, Utah 
