Stew ond Stine Vesta P. Crawford Through hills where earth had pressed A covenant on stem and stone, | followed a path to the valley house, Torn between the springtime's lilac air And memory of autumn's older wisdom. - Too brief the lily on its fragile stalk, And captive to the wind, the columbine; Brief as one morning, the primrose bud, And all the starry phlox sudden as rain. What petal could last? What flower remain? KKKE RK Then, as from a scroll, | heard her voice, Saw her rocking slowly in her chair, The porch a canopy above her, And the Book open in her hands.... As from a testament, her voice, Older than Sharon or, Bethany — "In my Father's house are many mansions.... Shaken, her voice,. As cypress boughs Bending the shadow of Lebanon. "\f it were not so, | would have told you. Mu Pe The Cover Little Church at Ramsau, Germany Color Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece The Blossomed Earth Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout Dick Scopes P VA Tl I received the January issue of the Magazine yesterday and was able to read some of the articles last evening. Now, as my children are settled down for their naps, I have had a chance to read more. I was particularly interested in the conference talks given by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen — these articles are so very timely — so much needed. —Marlene J. Ketley Bristol, Illinois I hope that all the male members of the Church scan through every issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I like the stories which are nearly always very touching and provide excellent lessons for improving our family life. I just finished reading the January issue, and my wife and I are so grateful for the two very timely articles on modesty and virtue. One of the finest things I came across in a long time, is the lesson "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" (by Christine H. Robinson). I think the fourth paragraph (page 63) is a real gem and a classic in our literature. The art layout and the entire Magazine reveal a fine sense of taste and proportion by the artist (Dick Scopes). —Max B. Zimmer Bountiful, Utah What cover could have more eloquence about human experience than the handcart family group pressing on amid snowy surroundings (January 1963). I was happy to see that Miranda Snow Walton placed first in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. I have admired the forthright strength of character revealed in her fine poems. Roxana Hase expressed a lovely thought in her "Sego Lilies," and Dorothy Roberts, as usual, has added a subtle little gem. —Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah 242 Ya Mea VU Sy I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine from my childhood days, and every issue gets better. The last few years the Magazine has served as a link to my dear Salt Lake City, since we are engaged in building chapels for the Church. I find that the lessons are received with the same enthusiasm in Mississippi as they have been in other States. I am prompted to write my sincere appreciation for the January issue. How blessed would be the Church if each sister who heard the message of President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen would incorporate these ideals in their homes. My most sincere thanks to the judges who chose the poem "Some Late Evening" (First Prize Poem in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest), by Miranda Snow Walton. I have never read anything portrayed so simply and deftly upon death. And how happy her loved ones waiting there must have been to greet her beautiful soul. —R. May M. Foote Liberty, Mississippi May I express my thankfulness to the Relief Society around the world and _ to our wonderful Magazine. It means so much to me now that I am so far from home. I read each Magazine as soon as it arrives. The lessons bring me close to my home and to the wonderful teachers I had, and help me to be a better wife and mother. The Magazine is my constant companion. —Jeanine S. Pace Tainan, 'Taiwan Formosa I have received the January Magazine. It is lovely. We do not get anything like it here. I always look forward to the joys of the Magazine. —Miss M. Davis Kingsbury, Middlesex, England 

The Relief society Magazine APRIL 1963, Vol 50, Number 4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES The Lord, Easter, and Me S. Dilworth Young 244 Oa Jacobs Cannon Appointed to the General Board Blanche Thomas Miner 248 Lila Bean Walch Appointed to the General Board Blanche B. Stoddard 249 j ivi Today — The St f Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha (Lucy King) Learning for Living Today e Story of Kee-Vee ( 4 ig onc Cancer Can Be Controlled Ralph Edwards 268 Do We Give Too Much? Joan H. Haskins 288 FICTION — SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Strange Bor oon cecccccnececceneeenecenncnnecnsnnnncnecseecnseceecacenenenenecsaneceeeeeeeseaseecesnneeneseeteeneeeeeeaeeesThelma Grube 250 A Load of Hay.; Ilene H. Kingsbury 258 Strictly for Silence Dorothy Clapp Robinson 269 Tf at First 22 ceee ete eeeetee cee eeeeee a Ruth G. Rothe 276 Keep My Own — Chapter 4 Kit Linford 304 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 242 Editorial: The Language of Flowers in a Woman's Life 22002 2222-2-ceeceeseeeeoeeVesta P. Crawford 264 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 267 Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of The Relief Society Magazine 266 Health Education Information and Aids Available 200.20.02. Cccceeeeeeeoee.. 266 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 310 Birthday Congratulations 2.2 ceeeeeeceee cence veeeeeeeseeeeeneeeevececeoreeeeeecesesenasesenresecseseusneese. 320 FEATURES FOR THE HOME I Never Knew My Grandparents Were Poor 200.0..0 c-cc-c-ccscocseeceeceeeseoceececeseoeeMabel Luke Anderson 28] "Mama" - _ Anna Duncan 284 A Praying Mother ma _ Winnifred Jardine 290 Edna B. Paulson, Artist and Musician 291 Unusual Vegetable Recipes for Special Occasions Mary J. Wilson 292 Let's Glamorize Chicken Myrtle E. Henderson 298 Spray It With Flowers Janet W. Breeze 300 How to Make a Burlap Bag.. Drusilla Ferree 302 POETRY A Covenant on Stem and Stone — Frontispiece Vesta P. Crawford 241 Child, Take My Hand, by Viola Ashton Candland, 247; Always With Delight, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 253; Count Blessings — Not Troubles, by Ursula King Bell, 263; Lullaby for Tomorrow, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 268; Country Auction, by Ida Elaine James, 286; Testament, by Christie Lund Coles, 287; Morning in a Garden, by Sylvia Probst Young, 294; What Did I Do Today? By Helen Sue Isely, 297; Heaven Scent, by Carolyn Kay Despain, 299; On His Way, by Rose Thomas Graham, 309; In Simple Robes, by Eva Willis Wangsgaard, 317; Walk With Stephen, by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 317; Prairie Wind, by Gilean Douglas, 319. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIBF SOCIETY cof the Chureh of J PSS Christ of Latter -day Saint ( 1963 by the R lief ietvy Gene} Roard seoeiation Editoria] id | e { Subscriptions 2642: Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price 82.00 a year: oreign, BZ. U0 ek 20e a copy payable in adi en pe y ~ Magazine i not +t attiat cnhteiiunt A,. } 4 ot numbe can | lied ry address onee, giving ¢ AI Ente re Y -cla Ty " > und May In sectl 110: i A >t C O j returne { less tury postage i months only. The Magazine is not responsibk 243 'The Lord, EKaster, and Me Elder S. Dilworth Young Of The First Council of Seventy JT was a hot day in June when Joseph Smith rode into Carthage, Illinois, accompanied by Willard Richards, John Taylor, Ammon Tenney, and several other friends. The feeling of foreboding which was the mood of the little group was not shared by those they left behind in Nauvoo. Hadn't Joseph circumvented his enemies before? 'Those who had been lulled by the blandishmental hypocrisy of his supposed friends were unconcerned. Then the blow fell. A foaming horse and dusty rider burst in with the news. Joseph was dead, Hyrum, too, John Taylor grievously wounded. Desolation of feeling enveloped the saints. Amid mighty outbursts of suffering from grief, the wailing cry of the family of Joseph reached toward the heavens. 'There seemed to be no relief. It couldn't be, but it was! This modern-day tragedy is close enough to us for us to be able to sense the devastation of the sorrow of that day. When calmer minds took charge, the saints, bowed as they were with despair, and the fear of further hurt, rose to the new hope of the teachings left them by the Prophet. This was the first time in eighteen hundred years that a Prophet had been slain. Their comfort was that prophets would continue to come. 244 Comforting their souls during the time of sorrow was the prophetic knowledge of the gospel. The Lord Jesus had come; he had revealed his mind and will; he would still guide them; Joseph had passed through the veil, but it was a thin veil; he was near. He would carry on his great work in the spirit world. Surely it would not be long before such a spirit as his would be able to receive his resurrection. The resurrection — that was the hope which kept hope alive. This modern scene, enacted in minor key many times in the lives of all of us, is made bearable by an act of the Lord Jesus Christ nearly two thousand years ago. So much is it the key to our hopes and the calming of our dread of death, that each spring all of the Christian world celebrates this harbinger of our future lives. 'That which is common knowledge and common hope today was not always the sustaining prop of the people. The doctrine of the resurrection was taught from the beginning. But always there have been men of no hope but strong voice, who have philosophically talked themselves out of the possibility of such a thing. And they have converted others to their point of view. They, seeing not, believed not. Such a remarkable and unexplainable event as a coming forth from the tomb had never happened. For 2000 years sitice Moses, and for a long time before that, hope had been raised, fed, beaten down, died. Prophets had proclaimed it, themselves died, and so far as anyone knew, still occupied their silent bit of earth. HEN one day messengers found a man named Jesus. "Our brother is sick unto death. Come quickly!" But he delayed two days. He had taught them and they had not quite comprehended. Finally, he arrived outside the little town of Bethany where Martha met him. "Lord," was her greeting, "if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died." Somehow she felt he could do something if he would, "But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee." "Thy brother shall rise again." She replied, "I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day." What Jesus said next, Martha did not quite understand, but she knew, nevertheless, that the Lord was speaking eternal truth. "T am the resurrection, and the Mine." And she, with that, acknowledged him to be the Redeemer. The rest of what he implied was lost to her and her sister in the overpowering joy of the restoration of Lazarus to mortal life. If the Lord meant to impress these simple believing people that his was the power of resurrection, they didn't seem to understand the message. For, THE LORD, EASTER, AND ME witness what took place a short time later. HE sorrowing women watched the brethren release the expired Savior from the cross. It was finished. He was dead. The promise of life and resurrection seemed purposeless. What they had dreamed and hoped was empty and futile. They watched as he was laid in the temporary tomb. No one would break the law of the Sabbath. The body would have to wait until the first day for embalming and encasement in the permanent linen shroud. They saw the heavy stone rolled into place and sealed. 'They saw the guard posted. They went despairing away. What they did on the Sabbath has never been said, but for the morning of Sunday the plan was to bring ointments and unguents and spices to prepare the body. Mary Magdalene came early. 'The stone was rolled away. 'The tomb was empty. Panic-stricken that, in spite of precautions taken, ghouls had stolen the body, she hurried to the place where the apostles had taken refuge. The message she delivered was the cause of the most famous foot race ever recorded by man. John, younger, won it, but hesitated at the door of the tomb. Peter rushed up, and impetuously rushed in. Their reactions differed. John, who wrote the account, said that he believed, and by that statement perhaps implied that Peter doubted. But both must have agreed that some marvelous event had occurred. But to Mary Magdalene was reserved the honor of first seeing the risen Lord. And because of it the 245 APRIL 1963 importance of women to the work of the Lord is forever made secure. Not Peter, not John, but Mary. Took. The glad word to the apostles. The resurrection was not mysterious, not philosophically doubtful. It was a simple fact. The Son of God had laid down his life, and had by his power, the same power that brought Lazarus back to mortal life, reunited his spirit with a changed and glorified body. He was resurrected — united forever, and glorified. What does this mean to you and to me? Man today imagines that he will conquer the stars. 'The whirling, tenuous nebulae in the distant reaches of space seem to be within his grasp. With organized earthly material, chemically excited, and physically controlled, he envisions probing the mysteries of the universe. 'To what purpose does the effort take him? He knows not, then he dies — and his faith dies with him. That morning, when the risen Lord said, "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father," saw brought into being a law as much higher than the laws of physics and chemistry, as the distant galaxy is higher than this puny earth. The Lord God controls the earth, but on his own terms. HE truth of that Sunday morning meeting nearly two millenniums ago was reaffirmed one day in the spring of 1820. But it also revealed a greater truth. Not only was Christ a resurrected, glorified Savior, but he has a glorified resurrected Father. Here, for the first time in the recorded history of the 246 world, was made manifest the truth of the statement in Genesis, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness...." As he did in the time of his first coming, the Lord has for the last time swept aside the cobwebs of man's erroneous thinking for eighteen hundred years, and stated once more in simple terms his relationship to man, and what he desires man's relationship to him to be. Repentance from sin now has meaning; for he said he will forgive the repentant one, and give him place in his kingdom. It makes firm in our souls that the resurrection is literally for all; that someday, you and I, and everybody, will take up our bodies and become eternally complete — body and spirit united. It makes it possible for us to understand what it means to dwell in his presence, to share his glory, to inherit "All that my Father has." Each has his place in this great order, fathers, mothers, children. In a deeper sense each Sunday is Easter. 'To us a reminder and a renewal is provided weekly. The sacrament, by which we repledge ourselves to take upon us his name, and to always remember him and keep his commandments, brings fresh to our souls the nearness of the coming of his millennium, that at long last he will bring his work to fulfillment in righteousness. Finally, in its earthly application, we have an obligation to our children to teach them the truth about Easter. Surely the lesson of the death and resurrection of the Lord is full of enough meaning, without confusing it with rabbits and colored eggs. Would it not be better to revive for their sakes on this day of solemn memorial the Savior's injunction of pure teaching, "Suffer the little children to come unto me..."? We glimpse eternity. 'The Lord Jesus died on the cross and was resurrected nearly two thousand years ago. He came and revealed himself to Joseph Smith. In the Lord's time, two thousand years is but a day. Before that time he worked with the people through his prophets for more than two thousand years. Let us hope that he will be equally patient with us as the time for fulfillment draws nigh. Child, Take My Hand Viola Ashton Candland Come, child, take my hand; Take my hand that I may lead you On the gospel's narrow path. Your eyes are limited, Dear child, you cannot see That this path guides us To eternal life with Deity. Lean on this staff, child, The way is long and often you will tire; Hold it firmly in your hand, Child, the staff is prayer. Wear this cloak of faith, child, This cloak is soft and warm; It is fashioned from God's purest love To shield you from temptation's storm. Let me fill your basket, child, With grains of truth gleaned from each hill and knoll, For scripture is the bread, my child, That nourishes the soul. God will bless you with a lantern, child, To light your way, Lest in the darkness of the night Your feet should stray; Guard this lantern well, child, Its light must not grow dim, For many pitfalls wait beside The path that leads to him. Come, child, take my hand; We will walk together, you and I, Until you are fully grown, Until you are strong enough, my child? To walk the path alone. 247 Oa Jacobs Cannon Appointed to the General Board Blanche Thomas Miner Oa Jacobs Cannon HE General Board of the Relief Society selected a person of high caliber in their appointment of Oa Cannon to their membership on February 6, 1963. Oa Jacobs Cannon was born in West Weber Utah, a daughter of the late Henry Chariton Jacobs and Emma Jacobs Williams, who now resides in Cardston, Alberta, Canada. She was educated at Weber Academy in Ogden, Utah, and at Brigham Young University, where she met and married Charles P. Lloyd. His untimely death left her with three small children: Norma, now Mrs. Ross E. Dean of Salt Lake City; Charlene, Mrs. Jack Mulkey of Corona Del Mar, California; and Charles P. Lloyd of Long Beach, California. Charles completed a mission and taught several years in New Zealand. He is now in the bishopric in a Long Beach ward and complet- 248 ing his education toward a doctorate. For eight years Oa taught in the Commerce Department at Brigham Young University, until her marriage in 1936 to Paul Bennion Cannon of Salt Lake City. Two daughters were born to them—Lynne, a University of Utah graduate, now serving on a mission in Ontario, Canada; and Kathryn, a junior at the University of Utah. For this important and responsible position on the General Board of Relief Society Oa Cannon possesses excellent qualifications. She has a thorough knowledge of the gospel obtained through participation in many Church organizations, particularly the M. I. A. And the Relief Society. She has served as first counselor in the presidency of the Holladay Ward Relief Society, and as President of the Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and as literature class leader in Holladay Ward, and in Monument Park Ninth Ward. For the past three years she has been a most enthusiastic and energetic genealogical worker. Sister Cannon has a capacity for work and the judgment to work effectively. Her education has been a continuing one, with frequent enrollment in University of Utah classes. While her executive and leadership ability will be appreciated and admired, she will be loved for her cheerful personality, her genuine interest in people, and her sympathetic understanding of their problems. Lila Bean Walch Appointed to the General Board Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society USKIN has said, "The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with roses, but they fall behind her footsteps, not before."" How true this is of Sister Lila Bean Walch who was appointed to the Relief Society General Board February 6, 1963. She has left an influence for good whereever she has served, both in religious and civic affairs. Sister Walch was born in Lagrande, Oregon, the ninth child of Victor E. And Mary Hannah Bean, who were prominent in establishing and developing Union Stake in Eastern Oregon. Sister Walch was a member of the school board of LaGrande, chairman of Region Fifteen; and first vice-president of the Oregon State School Board Association. In 1958 she was named the outstanding woman of the year by the LaGrande Soroptimists. She married Charles Lloyd Walch in the Salt Lake Temple in 1928. They are the parents of four sons: Frank, principal of the school in Springfield, Oregon; Victor, on the technical staff of Internal Revenue in Washington, D. C.; David, assistant librarian at the Church College of Hawaii; and Willard, a missionary in the Brazilian South Mission. Brother Walch, formerly a bishop and _ stake president in Union Stake, is now patriarch in Bountiful South Stake. Sister Walch has held positions in both ward and stake in every auxiliary of the Church. Active for years in Relief Society, she has been Lila Bean Walch visiting teacher, theology class leader, social science class leader, and Magazine representative. She is also a former member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Brother and Sister Walch are gracious hosts, and their home has always been a gathering place for youth. 'They have entertained many of the General Authonties in their home in Oregon. Sister Walch has a rare gift of public speaking, and for a number of years has had the opportunity to address firesides and other youth gatherings. She is a devoted wife and mother, a dedicated Latter-day Saint, and will bring to the Relief Society General Board. A_ great strength. She has a radiant charm which is instantly felt as one meets her, and she has a genuine interest in the sisters of the Church. 249 Strange Bond ticmcu yet born when we began to notice the very old man. Fach day at precisely the same time he rode precisely by on an English bike. He looked neither to right nor left, up nor down. He looked, as only the very old can look, directly forward into the past. No matter how chill the east wind, nor how hot the west, the old gentleman always wore the same outfit — dark trousers held at one cuff by a bicycle clip, a brown tweed jacket, and a white silk muffler. He wore no hat. We became so used to the sight of him that each morning at ten = LLEN was two and spring not 250 A. M. We would stand at the window and watch him pedal rhythmically past the house. Ellen would yell, "Hi, Man," through the closed windows, then turn and ask, "Where man gone?" Exactly twenty minutes later he would come past for the second time, and the ritual was repeated. By the middle of April, the daily progression of events was a rigid one: "Eat breakfast; kiss Grumpa; Grumpa go work; here come milkman; here come mailman; here come man — Hi, Man!" Then she would practice riding her new tricycle around the large rooms. When the day arrived for Ellen's skill and endurance test on the uneven sidewalk, we all stood by on the lawn, like horse owners at a racetrack, or children at a circus, watching Ellen pedal the trike backward and forward, up and down. A few times she turned the wheel too sharply, the trike tilted, and Ellen spilled onto the pavement. At first she cried with fright, but we stood our ground until she had set herself to nights, and from then on whenever the trike turned over, she pouted with annoyance, or laughed at her independence. That first day we didn't see the old gentleman until he was nearly upon us. Barely had we stiffened at the thought of a possible collision, when Ellen stopped, pulled her trike off to the side and laughed, "Hi, Man!" Without a sign he had heard, the precise gentleman wheeled precisely by, looking neither left nor right, nor up nor down, and the child, who had never been rebuffed before, watched while he was in sight. Eventually, Ellen was left to practice by herself, and frequent glances out the window were all we needed to be assured of her safety. The following day, one such glance occurred at just ten am. Ellen was absorbed in guiding her trike over a split in the sidewalk, and the old man pedaled past her before she realized he was near. Startled, she yelled, "Hi, Man," then, pushing hard upon the pedals, she started after him, calling, "Wait, Man! Wait minit!" By the time I reached the sidewalk and looked in their direction, he was out of sight, and Ellen was still pedaling furiously after him. As STRANGE BOND I called, she steered into a tree stump and fell. The small scrape she received from the tree stump needed attention with peroxide and love, so we missed the old gentleman's return trip, but that morning was the beginning. And except for rainy days, when neither the very young nor the very old ventured out, the pattern never varied, but once, all summer — at least not to our firsthand knowledge. ACH morning, just before ten AM., Ellen waited at the curb until she saw him coming down the street; then, with every muscle tense and every curl laughing, she scrambled onto her trike and _ set out to race with him. He passed her shortly (had he slowed down?) and the two of them disappeared for about twenty minutes, the girl bubbling with delight in the race, the old man staring straight ahead with no outward sign of pleasure. At the end of twenty-odd minutes, they would reappear in front of the house. Without turning his head or uttering a word, he stopped and waited. She looked up at him wistfully, still burning with unconsumed energy, but she understood, dismounted the trike, and came into the house. (What is it that passes between the very young and the very old?) It chanced that one day, our curiosity in supreme control, we quickly sneaked through the backyard hedge and went to call on a neighbor whose house faced the other street. Embarrassed though we were (never having been intimate with the family), we stationed 251 APRIL 1963 ourselves at the front window — hardly a moment too soon. For there they came, the skinny old man upon his skinny black bike, and the chubby little girl on her chubby blue trike. "There they go!' our neighbor commented. "I can't think where Mr. Christopher picks up that child every morning." "Who?" we asked. "Why, Mr. Christopher. He boards with Mrs. Prouty over on Eaton Lane. He. Say, that isn't your little girl, is it?" We admitted that the girl was ours, and that we had been consumed by curiosity about the two of them and what happened once they were out of sight. At that time our neighbor knew no more than we did. For her the tableau was always the same. Later on in the summer, however, she telephoned to say that Ellen, in trying to avoid a squirrel, had tipped over on the trike, catching her foot between the pedal extension and the front wheel. "T never!" our neighbor blurted. "That old man never even looked around. He knew just what happened! He stopped quick as you please and walked back — all straight and proper, mind you — and gentle as you please, he got her foot loose. He took out the whitest handkerchief you ever saw — span clean it was — and wiped her tears. Then he made her walk up and down a minute so as to see if her foot was all nght. Took her hand, mind you — him that never even speaks to Mrs. Prouty except when she feeds him liver, and then he only grumbles. Well, pretty soon, 252 he walks her back to the tricycle and just points at it. She picked it up and got on it, grinning at him sweet as you please. 'Then she waited until he got set on his bike again and off they went. Did you ever hear of such a thing?" few days later, what with molars breaking through and _ viruses seeking out body weaknesses, Ellen ran a high fever for twenty-four hours. It started late at night, and by morning she was too burned out to move off the couch. At nearly ten a. M. She opened her fever-dulled eyes and breathed, "Where man gone?" I opened the window wide and watched down the street until I saw him coming. (Had he slowed down, not seeing her ahead on the walk? Yes, he had even stopped, pretending to adjust his pants clip.) I walked out to the end of our cement path and stood waiting for him to pass. As he drew alongside, eyes straight ahead, I said simply, "She's sick." (I'm sure he nodded a bit.) From the front window a tiny, weak voice said, "Hi, Man!' (Had a smile flitted across his eyes?) 'Then the stick figure on wheels rode precisely on down the street. For the rest of the summer, then through the autumn, and part of the lovely Indian summer, the happy little pattern remained the same; the late morning air rang with the child's delight; the wheels crunched on the new gravel thrown up onto the sidewalk; the sunlight bounced from white head to blonde, from pale cheek to rosy. No one ever heard the old man speak to het. Sometimes he allowed her to ride a bit before him, but the danger was too great. Ellen kept turning her body to see if he was still there, and, at such times, her control of the trike was hazardous. So, with stiffnecked dignity, he would pedal ahead, and she would laugh out, "Wait, Man! Wait minit," and the Tace was on again. The idyll ended sometime in late October. One morning the old gentleman didn't appear. Ellen asked, with the persistence of the very young, "Where man gone?" and no one could explain to her the meaning of the black wreath on STRANGE BOND Mrs. Prouty's door. We could not say he had died silently, as he had lived, or that his hand was tightly clasped around a bicycle pants clip. Nor could we say that it was the first time Mrs. Prouty had ever seen a smile on his face. Until the first big snowfall, when the trike was brought in for the winter, Ellen stayed close to the house, watching carefully lest she miss him. Each day, her disappointment and puzzled look brought us the ache of genuine sorrow, and often, in our hearts, we heard an echo of her now-silent cry, "Wait, Man! Wait minit!" Always With Delight Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn These things my hands have loved to touch: smooth jade That holds the shadowed green of mountain pool; Worn leather of a long-loved book, brocade, Small ocean-polished pebbles, wet and cool; All old, old woods grown rich with use and age Whose soft patina shows the patterned grain; A gold-illuminated parchment page, Rare cloisonne, and fine, thin porcelain. But with the most delight, my fingers trace The living warmth and movement of your face. 253 — Pad m eo > y * a 7 wae _% See I ood nd "mage" e/ = es = ~ men nN = C me en) ie) el 254 The Story of Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha (Lucy King) Ot TR years a7'0 on the Fort McDoai i A p he R. ] T mt i | ] | } tion afternoon on the Verde River t in the mesquite shade Vs < HVE Sister Lucy King told the her long and eventful lif 'Bye Ahawheata killful inte rpretatio1r bridged Our communicatio! Ty HO three hours the breezy words born in wide and open spaces found then way into English to paint a pictur of days and ways now gone. A fev days later we returned to Sister King and my English rendition was tl lated into her native tongu Back and forth she rocked, chuckling d" lightedly. Occasionally, she coul contain her thoughts no commented pointed| "She is pleased," Dora Ahawheata interpreted. "She says that you have put the thoughts of her heart upon paper. She asks if she may have copies for all her children, that th may ha 1 ot the wav of things in her lifetime. Lige Wd LeECOre Here than ic #i 17.] + if WU i} 4 I a] Ca | i l t the 1 2 Vi i 5 i HE heart of Arizona was the homeland of my people. It must be in legend time that God created the Yavapai for this land between Clarkdale and _ Prescott. Here my people dwelt in peace and plenty. 'There was no white man on the face of Arizona, none. Here in Yavapai-land my grandparents dwelt, here the brave Rayvah wed Hah-dee, and to them were born my brothers, William Eddie and Owl 'Tail, and my sisters, Keeeve-ja and Bahk-see who later was called Mary Stacy. Then to Prescott and Camp Verde came white soldiers in covered wagons and on horse. 'They encircled my people. Men, women, and children were encompassed round about. By force were they abducted from the land of the Yavapai. By the strangers were they taken to live among the San Carlos Apaches on land given them by the white man's chief. And as time passed they were no longer known as Yavapai, but were called by a white man's error Mojave-Apache. The white men sought to capture Geronimo, an Apache chief. My father, Ray-vah, joined the other Yavapai braves who served as scouts for the white men. 'The scouts were well paid. 'The government fed us well. Here at San Carlos was I born and called Kee-vee-wah-cha, because 255 APRIL 1963 the sound of it and the look of me pleased my mother. Then Ray-vah, my father, began to look very old. Gray-white was his hair. In my fifth year he sickened and died. N those days the white man determined to teach his ways to our young people. 'There was no school closer than Grand Junction, Colorado. 'That place was far from our campfires. Only the brave were glad to go. When I was six years old, old enough to be taken from my family for white man's training, my mother began to fear the loss of her baby, for I was the last child she bore. She was certain I would sicken and die if I were taken from her care. Each day she prepared food and water for me to carry into the hills where my sisters and I cowered silently all day, listening for the sound of the white policeman who looked for all school-age children who did not report for education. As twilight came we would scurry home to supper and safety for the night, only to spend another day as fear-frozen quail hiding from the enemy. Each Saturday, when my mother went for her family food ration, the Government agent studied the family card and asked if she had any children of school age. My mother had no children who should learn white man's ways. And so it was that I have never learned to read or write or speak the white man's tongue. Nor did any of my mother's children go to school. We "escaped" the white men who policed the reservation. 256 Sometime that year my mother, Hah-dee, took a second husband into our tepee. He was called Jah-pu which means Shorty. He was a kind man. Those were good days. All winter long the fire burned in our tepee. As we wove baskets my mother told the legends of our people. When summer brings its creeping, crawling life it is not good to tell the ancient legends. 'The telling is a winter thing, to be enjoyed when canvas is pulled close to shield the brush tepee from wind and rain. In metates we ground the corn fine and started each day with mush, drinking a brew of crushed dried redberries sweetened with mescale. We lunched on stew or Indian squash cooked with meat or fried in meat drippings. Supper was a cold meal, finishing the day's food. HEN summer days ripened the prickly pear, we teen-age girls slung special high baskets upon our backs, woven during the legendlistening time. Each carried a specially shaped -stick for harvesting the fruit of the prickly pear cactus. We filled our baskets and took them to a brush-bed prepared in a shady place. Here we took other pieces of brush and rolled back and forth the fruit we had emptied on the brushbed. When the stickers were all rolled off, we put the fruit back into the baskets and took them home to be eaten as apples are eaten. None of us ate as we gathered fruit or berries. Nor did the young men eat of the meat they killed to bring back to camp. Each ate of another's kill. All was shared by the entire people. To eat of one's own gathering or hunting was to become selfish and lazy. This we were taught early. We believed our efforts must be for the good of all. When I was nearly eighteen my parents chose a young man, Hugo Bah-nah-hah. Arrangements were made for our marriage as was our custom. That first year my mother visited me often in my tepee. She spoke much of her loneliness. Then my first girl-child was born and I called her Mabel. Not long afterward an Apache, Justin. Head, killed five men. One of them was my stepfather Jah-pu. Now Hah-dee could stand her loneliness no longer. She urged me, and I took my daughter with me, returning to my mother's tepee. Mabel was a year old. When the child was three years old I met Ralph King and love came to me. We were married and came to make our home at Fort McDowell. A year later my daughter Lola was born. A few years later Nina was born. The girls grew into beautiful young women. Mabel died the first year of her marriage. Lola has given me four grandchildren. Nina and her husband Frank Smith have given me five. ERE beside the Verde River which flows from the mountain springs not far from Jerome have I lived most of my life. By this Indian river flowing from the heart of Yavapai-land I have waited for knowledge. Though the white men irrigate their land with Indian water, this is all. Right. We do not know the ways of farming and our tribal counLEARNING FOR LIVING TODAY cil preserves our privacy when others would lease the fertile land. But because white men have harnessed Indian water something good has come to us. John and Myra Dodson came to my home with Dora Ahawheata to make their words clear to me. Over a year's Tuesday nights they came to talk with me of the ancient ones, the Lamanites, and of the commandments of our Father God. Always I have feared water, but at last I knew that there was no other way to please God, and I was baptized in water warm as my own skin, in the Spanish Ward font. That was seven years ago. I never knew anything until Brother and Sister Dodson and Dora Ahawheata invited me to go with them to Church. I told them I didn't know how to go. After they kept coming to my house there was an illustration that thrilled me. They spoke of a straight road going toward the light. They showed me the way to walk in the light. They taught me that God wants us to walk in the light, and we please him when we try to live his way. Sisters who live far away come and bring food to me. Brothers came a long way to build a house for me when my tepee burned. The white brothers and sisters have made my life good. I know this is the true way. I will always be strong and stand fast on my own feet, in the "Way of Light." One of the few English phrases Sister King uses is "I love you" which she learned from her dear friend, Roberta Flake Clayton, who was her first Relief Society president. 257 Ilene H. Kingsbury NE could tell it was the season of the hay. Clumps of lucerne balanced along the center of the road where they had toppled from successive loads. A gentle wind wafted them about, pretending they were old sagebrush. A woman stood by her cedar post gate. As she had been there for quite some time, looking at the road, motionless, one was led to question such leisure. Certainly there must be something for her to do within her house. She would have been the first to admit that work awaited her 258 — six children brought that. However, for this morning all else must wait while she stood sentinel erect at her gate ready to make a decision of deep import, then give a command, and wait to see whether it would be obeyed. Every few minutes she glanced down the road in the direction of the outer fields which surrounded the town. She expected something of great importance to arrive from that direction. She was awaiting a load of hay and three boys on top of it. The same breeze that blew the lucerne about the ground fluttered the woman's apron. Its folds alternately were drawn to the gate post then swung about her long skirt and pressed against her knees to make her look momentarily as if she wore men's apparel. Such _ unladylike style was completely unthinkable, so she constantly tugged and smoothed the skirt and apron, which in length came quite correctly to the ankles. She was disquieted because the restless wind, as it seesawed at her apron, might well interfere with an important, pre-arranged signal which must be executed very shortly. She did not want a smoothing of her apron, which meant to turn the wagon in at the home gate, to interfere with an actual waving of the apron, which permitted the boys to by-pass their property and drive on to the bishop's tithing barn. Formerly she had tried shouting her order from her post at the gate to the top of the hayrack, but the wind, the distance, and the noise of horses and wheels had prevented the boys hearing her correctly. 'This necessitated coming to a complete stop, which was outruled by the boys as quite unnecessary, especially as their object was purely speed. The apron signal had been the solution to the problem. Only at the last instant would she know which motion to make, and she didn't want a stiff breeze or three immature boys to misinterpret her decision. To divert her mind from an otherwise perplexing problem, she glanced here and there — a sort of Stationary tour of inspection. One object she observed. It was a torn A LOAD OF HAY piece of yellow-orange cloth nailed to her gatepost. Immediately her mind reverted to an incident of recent occurrence and immense value. The cloth and the incident were, in part, to determine her signal, as we shall see. We have called this part of her saga Four Brass Buttons. NDS of the stout, woven selvage of the yellow cloth fluttered in the wind and still proclaimed a terrifying message. There was no time now to go into the house to get a claw hammer and pry off the stick to which it had been attached. So she let the shredded threads remain as they had for these several weeks. This colored cloth had been a flag. Not a flag of liberty, but one of restraint and quarantine. Its color, a blend of saffron, mustard, and sunflower had cried to the valley that within the household was a deathdealing disease of some sort — typhoid, diphtheria, whooping cough, or measles. 'This time it had announced the fever of diphtheria. The woman was disturbed by the fact that the sexton of the town put up the quarantine flags. 'The sense of doom he created had been known to send patients into a state of depression. The woman wondered why the grave digger had to have two duties to perform, each so sad and final. Maybe, if she talked to the bishop, he would do something about the unhappy situation. Usually, the epidemic felled all members of a family. As the contagion spread, so did terror and uncertainty. Helplessness and sorrow were burdens in almost every family. If outside help was needed, it was only forthcoming from some daring 259 APRIL 1963 soul who had had the disease and had thereby gained immunity. Such a person was willing to step through the yellow flag barrier and work like a horse, as they said, to nurse the sick, wash on the board, ease the suffering, sit up with the dying, lay away the dead, and comfort the living. It was just such an individual who had ignored the banner on the stick and entered the woman's home at dawn sometime around the second day of the flag. The vigil with the sick was marked off in days of the flag. The time stretched on and on until the last victim was pronounced cured. But the arduous labor continued on through a fumigation period in which a sort of cleansing of the spirit, as well of material objects, took place. Shallow dishes filled with sulphur were set in each room to burn and fume and permeate every surface and crack. HE flag reminded the woman of the person who had come to serve and save, as they aptly called the task. The bony, angular, mannish sort of woman who strode to their door each morning was not a resident of the town in the first place. She lived in the next settlement four miles to the southwest and had walked every step of the way. News traveled fast even in those days. When this woman, who was Aunt Clarissa to everyone but only a blood relation to a few, heard there was a family without any help, she appointed herself to take care of them. And why did she walk? You might ask. For the simple fact that she did not own a cart to ride in, or a 260 horse to draw it. Her ever-ready form of transportation was that oldfashioned one of walking called "Shank's Ponies." When _ asked whether it seemed very far, those four miles each way, she replied, "I walked two thousand miles to get to the Rocky Mountains. Now I am here, what is the distance between two towns?" She shrugged off a routine which meant stemming the fever of seven brows. She kept a_ perpetually steaming pot of graham gruel on the back of the stove. She emptied slop buckets a dozen times a day. She pealed, sliced, and pounded, and cooked every bite of food that was consumed by the sick and convalescing. She carried in from a woodpile at the rear of the house every stove length that was burned to cook that precious nourishment. On the thirty-first day of the flag there appeared a finality about each task performed by Aunt Clarissa. The children knew that tomorrow morning she would not enter the door, fold her quilted cape, place it in the deep window sill, and then command the very air they breathed. This day was a little sorrowful. Each patient had felt her steadying hand and accepted a strength from her which had persuaded them all to gain their legs again. The two girls cried while thanking her. The littlest boy tried copying his big brothers by bragging that now they would care for their mother and the girls and each other; however, he did a rather pathetic job of it. Upon realizing his failure, he tugged at his mother's apron and soon became so submerged and entangled in its folds that everyone laughed at him. This hilarity appeared in such contrast to the rest of the leave-taking that one wondered if proper gratitude had been expressed. As verbal wages were all the thanks this good woman was to receive, the mood should have been one of great dignity, some believed. OWEVER, at the last moment, as Aunt Clarissa had her hand on the doorknob in a repeated attempt to leave, another delay presented itself. 'The mother felt as if some tangible recompense was demanded. Perhaps in future days she could "pay in kind," that is, in service, or hot bread, or fresh eggs — but for now nothing like that was possible. At that moment an idea resembling a sort of promissory note came to her mind. She quickly stepped from the room and entered a triangular closet which was built under a stairway. With a sharp pull she managed to dislodge a small trunk from between rolls of winter bedding. She eased it to the floor, lifted the lid, and withdrew a greenish black broadcloth coat. This was a double-breasted style with great metal buttons showing through vast slashes of buttonholes. She thought, how they gleam in this half light under the stairs! She hastily jerked off one of the buttons, then another, then two more. Four in all. With a finality most pronounced, she folded the coat, placed it back where it belonged, shut the lid, pushed the trunk where it had reposed, then went back quickly to say the last farewell. The two women embraced; they kissed each other on the cheek. They murmured a quiet sentence or two. A LOAD OF HAY The children wondered what the words were, but could only guess. As the two women grasped hands, Clarissa felt that several small objects had been transferred to her fingers. She looked down, adjusted her hand to the light of the doorway. She smiled as she saw a very precious gift cupped therein. The mother said simply, "This is all the thanks I have, Clarissa. Perhaps you can use these buttons from an old Welsh soldier's coat." In a moment Clarissa started toward the gate. Her offering of service had been accepted. For her vigilance she had received four brass buttons. Clatter, a rumble of wheels aroused the mother from her contemplation of the symbol of quarantine and from the remembrance of beneficence so great it brought her to tears. Far down toward the fields she could first hear, then identify the hayrack, the horses steadily pulling it; and, as it neared, her three sons atop the load of hay. At that moment they spied her. All three let out a great cheer. The one who drove the horses snapped the reins on their backs and shouted so as to move the red hills, "Run Pockets, run Boots! On to the fire!" In two lengths the spirited animals and the exultant boys entered a race which they called "jockeying for tenth position." All drivers, on other courses, hoped to settle for first place, but this race was different from any other in all the world. If the load was not judged perfect by their mother, then it was not a chase at all, but a routine delivery. But if 261 APRIL 1963 ° she waved her apron, as permission to drive right on through town to the tithing barn, then it became a flight, a dash! The woman watched them now, bearing down on her with quite frightening speed. She was not sure whether it was seemly to race to the tithing barn. Her feeling was that it should be, rather, a procession, a decorus movement accompanied by a fife or a flute, or even a trumpet. But this careening, precarious ride in a spirit of sport and competition, as if going to a charivari! This almost Shocked her. She caught her thoughts. Youth and age may gain the same end by diverse means. Do not grumble or nag, she told herself. Three of her four boys were on top of that load. He who "held the leather" was Hebe, the middle in age. At eighteen, he was grandly built, handsome, taller than the rest — more stately English than squat Welsh. How she feared for that one. He was so irrepressible and vibrant that he seemed to be seeking more elbow room than is allotted to one human being. In his exuberance to be an independent individual he often said, too loudly, "Give a horse his head!" This unreined, unchecked son would not always stay in the harness at home, She knew that. He strained at life. She only prayed that when he went out in the great, wonderful world that he would come back the man she prayed him to be, and the one he imagined he could be. He needed to stay home a little longer. George, a patriarchal nineteen, sat on the near side, front corner of the load. He maintained a steady seat by locking his leg around the rack 262 stake. In that position he controlled the situation. That is, he was not in the driver's seat, but just far enough away not to be a hindrance to Hebe, but near enough for emergency. That boy, George, was old as the hills when he was a baby, his mother remembered. His oldness had nothing to do with his few years on earth. It was as if a traditional maturity was placed upon him the day he was born. He maintained that he grew up in the pre-existence and didn't have to bother with it in this life. Perhaps he was right, his mother thought. One knew the place he was walking in was the good place. But if he had been an oldster he had given joy. With never a lesson in his life, how that boy could play the organ! In stocking feet, to rest them, he said, he pumped the treadles and brought out such melodies that his mother often sat down and cried, just to hear him. Seventeen-year-old Dave sat on the back of the wagon. Let the others tend to the business of getting the hay to the barn, he thought, right now I shall think to myself. He looked high to the crimson hills, then far out in the valley where the Little Salt Lake appeared as a silver ribbon in its widening shore of crystalline salt. This country was his mother's homestead, he knew that, but could it be that in a few years he would follow Hebe out in the world, instead of working with George in this little spot? His mother could have voiced his every thought, although at this moment she could see only the back of his head. Torn, that was Dave. The company he kept just better be good, she resolved. And it was good! His mother saw to that! She was not going to have him turning a new leaf in repentance and contrite spirit. He was not to fluctuate or deviate. She would help him to plant his feet in the good path; there he would walk; there he would beckon others, there they would follow. Even out in the world he would be not of it. HIS woman had a conviction about an offering. For instance, it was the quality of the tithing that mattered — the quantity had been prescribed long ago. Israel had heard about it for nearly four thousand years. By now it was no affair of this homesteader how much she should give; it was what kind of that much that concerned her. It reminded one of a medical formula. The amount was determined, but the essence, the ultimate substance had not been seriously or finally compounded. Her offering, then, had to represent the first fruits. In her case the product was a load of hay. Therefore, she reasoned, a _ close watch must be held over the season's harvest, that only the best of each ten loads would move from the fields past her town lot nght on to A LOAD OF HAY the tithing barn. There was also this matter of Clarissa and the fourmile walk each way every day end on end to be acknowledged before the Lord. This farm woman had a peculiar choice of words. She called this quantity her tenth; for who can always correctly spell tithe? Besides, she explained, tithe can mean just a little bit; but everyone can count on their fingers! It just became easier to figure and spell and say one tenth. So much for quibbling over a little word. Her practiced eye judged the oncoming load. It bulged at the stake poles. 'The color was good. 'The aroma of drying purple blossoms was a perfume of promise. 'This was the tenth. It could be described with pride in the bishop's barn book. At the instant Pockets and Boots came alongside the gate, the boys were prepared for two things: make a dash for it, or pull to a more sedate pace. 'They sized up the situation instantly, accurately. With a whoop and a holler they began to eat the road. Hooves dug in the dust, wheels whirled, boys opened their mouths and just plain yelled! The mother left the gate and went into her house. Count Blessings—Not 1 — nw s. \ 7 & 1 ao | | a, c S ub} — ad Ursula King Bell Count your blessings — not your troubles; Talk about the good things of life to others, Not your problems, for all have enough to endure. Endeavor to keep your mind and hands busy With useful work and pleasant thoughts. 263 VOLUME 50 EDITORIAL APRIL 1963 NUMBER 4 The Language of Flowers in a Woman's Life [7 has been said that a child is richly blessed in being privileged to look upon the beautiful creations of earth while she is yet young, when memorable impressions are made upon the yielding mind. Even a babe may be seen to focus her eyes upon a bright blossom and reach for it. A little one, just learning to walk, perhaps may follow along the window sill and touch the flowers blooming there with fingers as fragile and tenderly tinted as the petals. And who has not observed a little girl reaping the lawn for a bouquet of dandelions? The child grows quickly into the time of tools — the rake and the hoe and the watering can and the planting of flower seeds in hope and faith. The meaning of flowers grows and deepens with the years as a girl child becomes a woman. The memories of her young years merge into plans and desires for a future time of homemaking. The flowers that marked the high school and the college graduations, that first rose corsage from a special person, have given the young woman a realization that flowers are symbolic — they rise from the earth and bloom and mark the seasons with beauty. They give their splendor to special 264 days and times — and as the flowers of one occasion disappear, the new days come and new flowers adorn the earth, new gardens surround new houses, and blossoms add color and comfort to the place called home. In some families there is a tender story of love and strength and the lineage of floral beauty that comes from older homes to newer ones, with the flowers far removed from the place of their nativity. A ranch in the wilderness of a western desert still flaunts its lilac blossoms in the spring, from a sturdy root brought from Nauvoo, and now, after a century, one seeing the lilac bushes would never know that they loved the desert less than their own green and rainy land. In one small town nearly all the windows — in all seasons — flaunt the splendor of pink geranium blossoms — hundreds of blossoms from one geranium plant that rode in a place of honor in a westward wagon. One woman gave a geranium slip to another, and so the blossoms were multiplied, and sometimes the town was called "geranium village," for the women loved color and beauty, and the humble adobe homes and log cabins were adorned in splendor. Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counsele: Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer And who would wonder why the pioneer women planted their outdoor flower gardens in precise rows — here a row of zinnias and then perhaps a row of nasturtiums, and, next to that gold and bronze display, the purple-blue of a row of Canterbury bells? Who would wonder at the sight of such a sedate garden, knowing that desert rains are infrequent, and water from the faraway mountains must be persuaded down a little ditch to water the precious rows of radiant color? And no one having once become acquainted with hardy yellow roses, which were the only roses around many pioneer homes — no one having rejoiced in yellow roses could say that they were not a comfort and a blessing and a gladness on the landscape. There are families in which the generations of pansies have given influence and an aura of gentle beauty to the women who are of the lineage of an English widow who gathered her children and her flower seeds and made a long journey in time, in miles, and in spirit. Even today, the descendants of that house established in a new land, still tenderly care for pansies whliose floral ancestors grew in profusion in the garden of a far country. Fortunate and blessed are those women who remember flowers given to them by their friends, their children, and their husbands. The ranch woman whose husband brought her a bouquet of bluebells from an oak brush thicket on a distant hill; the woman whose husband remembers special times with a little gift of flowers — perhaps only a single rose — its petals to be found years later pressed in a book of remembrance; the farmer in a country of foothills plowing all around a small circle of sego lilies, calling it his wife's garden. Though the husband and the wife have been many years away from their homestead and will not return, still the sego lilies bloom in springtime, and the place is known as a woman's garden. Once, not long ago, an elderly woman who was ill anxiously asked her granddaughter, "Tell me about the violets. Are they in bloom — is the color deep purple, as always...?" To her, and to many women, flowers are symbolic of the constant beauty of earth and the enduring love of family. —V. P. C. 265 Notes to the Field Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of The Relief Society Magazine (THE previews for the 1963-64 lessons will appear in the June 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1963 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1963. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings. Health Education Information and Aids Available Films, film strips, brochures, questionnaires, discussions, and other detailed information regarding health education may be obtained by Relief Societies for use at the work meeting or on a fifth meeting day, as desired, from many State organizations or from the following National headquarters: The American Cancer Society 521 West - 57th Street, New York City 19, New York The American Heart Association 44 East - 23d Street, New York City 10, New York Muscular Dystrophy Association of America 1790 Broadway, New York City 19, New York National Tuberculosis Association 1790 Broadway, New York City 19, New York National Foundation (Birth Defects, Arthritis, Nervous Disorders, Poliomyelitis ) 800 Second Avenue, New York City 17, New York 266 BELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, and Florence S. Jacobsen, General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, have been named to the Honorary Anniversary Committee for the celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the National Council of Women. The appointments were recently announced by Mrs. Yarnall Jacobs of New York City, President of the National Council. JUDGE MARY CONWAY KOHLER, a distinguished juvenile court authority, is chairman of the Presidential Executive Committee on Employment of Youth. She is also chairman of the American Bar Association's committee on juvenile justice and proceedings. She is an expert on the problems involved in the attitudes of students who drop out of high school before graduation. Judge Kohler is the mother of three children. MB:- RUDD BROWN, wife of the eminent scientist Harrison Brown, and daughter of Ruth Bryan Owen who was America's first woman Minister in the diplomatic service, and granddaughter of William Jennings Bryan, is a scientist and lecturer of note. After a distinguished career in teaching and scientific research at the University of Chicago, she traveled widely with her husband and has become an authority on social and_ political conditions in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. D* SARAH RIEDMAN is author of Masters of the Scalpel (Rand McNally publishers), which presents a history of the growth of surgery in an exciting and adventurous fashion. In a series of biographical sketches, Dr. Riedman describes the work of Hippocrates, Galen, Paracelsus, Versalius, Pare, John Hunter, Joseph Lister, William Mayo, and others, giving a resume of the schooling, experience, ambitions, and successes of each doctor. ELEN GEE WOODS, a Latter-day Saint, is the founder of the Gem State Authors' Guild and the Idaho Poets' and Writers' Guild, the latter of which is affiliated with the National Federation of State Poetry Societies. Mrs. Woods is the present president of the Idaho organization and was elected national treasurer at a recent convention. A widely published poet, she is editor of The Guild magazine, a quarterly. 267 Cancer Can Be Controlled 1963 — "The Year of the Volunteers" Ralph Edwards National Crusade Chairman, American Cancer Society HE encouraging news in the fight against cancer is that physicians now have the knowledge to cure one out of two cancer patients. The big if is — if people see their doctors in time for early diagnosis and treatment. Reaching people with information about cancer therefore becomes a life-saving opportunity, a most urgent one. Remember that one out of two cancer victims could be cured, but only one out of three is now being cured. 'That is not good enough. We must move ahead to a higher achievement. See your doctor immediately if you have any one of Cancer's Seven Danger Signals that lasts more than two weeks: (1) unusual bleeding or discharge; (2) a lump or thickness in the breast or elsewhere; (3) a sore that does not heal; (4) change in bowel or bladder habits; (5) hoarseness or cough; (6) indigestion or difficulty in swallowing; (7) change in a wart or mole. See your doctor every year for a thorough health checkup no matter how well you may feel. The risk of dying in the prime of life is almost twice as great for men who are heavy cigarette smokers as for nonsmokers. Cigarette smoking ls the principal controllable causal factor in lung cancer, a disease that has increased 953 per cent in the last thirty years. In tribute to 2,000,000 volunteers who have aided cancer progress, the American Cancer Society has designated 1963 as ""The Year of the Volunteer."" In April 1963, the crusaders for life and health bring a vital message — ""I'o cure more give more to the American Cancer Society." Lullaby for Tomorrow Dorothy ]. Roberts Hushaby baby, eider the bed, Softer the new pillow under your head, Kinder all hands to the innocent flesh, Wider the heavens be to the thin mesh Hung to your dreaming, oh red bud to blow; Gentler the seasons be, lighter the snow. 268 Strictly jor Silence ISH, short for Letitia, HaAl worth, was hurt, deeply hurt. She was never going to open her mouth again. Her new neighbor down the street had deliberately invited her to mind her own business; and all she had said was that he must not yell at his sweet wife. She was trying to help him put up a clothesline, and he had yelled at her like a—a—well, Tish had heard the coarse words and — who could help? And then, to add insult to injury, Irene, Tish's daughter, had agreed with the man. "After all, Mother, it wasn't any Dorothy Clapp Robinson of your business. 'The wife was the one to protest." And she might have added, "You try to dictate too much." Oh, yes, that is what they all thought. Well, she was through defending people. From here on she was minding Tish Haworth's business — strictly for silence, as her granddaughter would say, and that wife was such a sweet person. Now her washer wouldn't work. She had had company over the week end and most of her bed linen was in the hamper. Tish called the repair man. He 269 APRIL 1963 would certainly be there just as soon as he could, tomorrow or next day at the latest. She bit her lip. If any repair man thought she was going to let soiled clothes sit around that long, he had another think coming. She could take the clothes to Irene's, but she wasn't going to. She could go to a washateria. She chose one from the telephone book, the one farthest from her home. She did not know anyone in that section of town, and, among strangers, she would not be tempted to talk. It was early when Tish arrived at the washateria, and there was but one person ahead of her. There was no attendant visible. It was a large room with two rows of washers, back to back, running down the center of the room. Against the inner wall were a half dozen driers. 'Two sides of the room had windows looking out on a parking space. By one window was a mangle with a chair before it. There was one other chair and a bench. These, besides a coin changing box and a pop vending machine, made up the furnishings of the room. The lone occupant of the room, a gray-haired woman, was putting a hand-pieced quilt in a big washer. She barely nodded when Tish said "Good morning." As Tish sorted her own clothes, she watched that quilt. The dear old grandmother who had pieced it would turn over in her grave could she see her handiwork being stuffed into a washer. But Tish was not going to tell her the quilt might be ruined. Another woman came in. She looked so fresh and friendly, Tish 270 turned away her gaze. If she spoke to that woman she would be lost. Three married girls came in, all in cotton house dresses, and they were too interested in each other to be courteous. Two more women. Still Tish kept silent. HEN Tish's washers were nearing the end of the cycle, a soldier in greasy fatigues came in and picked a tub directly across from her. He dumped an overflowing basket of clothes into the tub. That was more than Tish could stand. "You shouldn't," she cried, hurtrying around to his side. "Shouldn't what?" he asked. "Put those greasy overalls in with your white clothes. Just look at this lovely blouse." "It won't hurt them," one of the girls said. She looked boldly at the soldier. He gave her a brief glance, then turned to Tish. "Would you mind showing me how to do it?" Would she mind! Tish began sorting his clothes, making two loads of them. "Wife usually does this," the soldier apologized, "but she is in the hospital." Tish was all sympathy. "Has she been very ill?" "Nope," the boy grinned. "A boy, and you should see the size of his fists already." He dumped half a box of detergent into one washer. Tish grabbed the box and shut off the water. "My goodness. That was more than enough for three loads." She used her hands to scoop out some of the detergent and put it in the second tub. The girls laughed among themselves. "Say," the soldier asked, when the tubs were spinning, "would you mind watching these dohinkies for me? I'll take a quick run down to the hospital. I'll be back before they quit whirling." "Do you want them dried?" 'Tish asked. "Oh, sure." He fished some coins from a pocket and put them in her hand. The girls laughed again, but Tish ignored them. 'The woman with the quilt was putting it in a drier. Poor quilt! Presently an old car stopped before the window. A young man jerked a basket of clothes from the back of the car. He came in and slammed it down before the last washer in the row, then went out for two more. His wife followed him in, pushing a cart in which was a young boy and a small girl clinging to it. She was pregnant. Without a word the husband went out and tires squealed as his car started. "My, my," one of the girls said in a stage whisper, "wouldn't you love living with him?" The wife seemed to pay no attention. She stooped for a basket, then dropped it. Tish was waiting beside the soldier's loads. '""That is too heavy for you," she called. "Let me lift i. "Thanks," the girl answered, "I was trying to avoid stooping." A tear ran down her cheek. She brushed it away quickly. "Oh, he forgot his lunch." She pointed to a sack resting on one of the baskets. STRICTLY FOR SILENCE "Maybe he will remember and come back." "Not when he is in this mood. He will go without and be crosser than ever when he gets home." She whispered the words. ISH swallowed a quick remembrance. Hugh had had his moments during the early years of their married life. She had learned not to force an issue, and he had learned to give a little — only a little, to be honest about it, but they had had a wonderfully happy life. She started to tell the young wife, but stopped. She was not mixing in any family affair again. "Tm Tish Haworth," she said, "what is your name?" "Lola." That was all. Tish looked carefully at Lola. She had been and still could be a very lovely girl. Everything about her and the children was clean and neat. She wore a blue checked smock and a very blue skirt. 'Tish's resolve weakened. "T take it," she spoke casually, as She helped load the washers, "your husband was upset about something." Lola's mouth hardened. "He never thinks of anyone but himself." "So?" Tish glanced about. The soldier's washers had quit spinning, but there was no empty drier. The three married girls had left, and others had taken their places. One woman was putting a load in with one hand and reading a movie magazine held in the other hand. She neither spoke nor was spoken to. The young boy was screaming. "Push him back and forth, Darlene." Lola spoke softly to her 271 APRIL 1963 little daughter. "Tl take him in a few minutes." She turned to Tish. "This is the way the days go. Carl takes the car to work, and I can't get outside the door without both babies tugging at me. Darlene isn't old enough to walk as far as the park. I'd like to hear something besides baby prattle for a change." "Will you have to wait for Carl to pick you up?" "No. Ill walk home. It isn't far, and he will pick up the clothes on his way home from work. Some day they are going to be stolen before he gets here." "I won't, I won't," Tish repeated under her breath. She took the soldier's clothes and set the basket down before a drier. 'The grayhaired woman had dried her quilt and was, of all things, pressing it on the mangle. 'Tish put the basket of clothes in the drier and then returned to Lola. She looked again at the woman with the quilt. "Why don't you take my car and take Carl's lunch to him?" OLA just stared, but a man across the row of washers turned to his wife, "Ginny, did you hear that? Offers her car to a stranger." "She must be a wonderful person, Ben," the wife answered softly. Tish heard and a warm glow washed over her body. She took her key ring from her purse and offered it to Lola. The girl shrank back. "Go on. It is the blue one," and Tish pointed to it through the window. "Oh, I wouldn't think of taking your car. You don't know me. Besides." She glanced at the 272 washers and then at the children. Her face came alive. "No." 'Tish stopped her words. "The babies will stay here with me." "Tll have your car, and you will have my babies." Lola tried to sound facetious. "Why should you be so good to me?" She wanted to protest, but wanted more to use the car. The cool indifference of the woman with the quilt might have had something to do with it, so might the trio of giggling girls, or any number of other things, but all Tish said was, "I know how men are when they are hungry." Lola hugged her and in a tone that had risen several octaves said, "T haven't been in a real car for so long I have forgotten when." Then, as swishingly as her shape allowed, she was gone. "Lady," Ben spoke up, "if you had made me that offer I would willingly have left you all these dirty clothes for collateral." Ginny looked across at the children. "If she doesn't come back you will have the best of the bargain." Tish noted the wistful look on Ginny's face. Ben reached and patted her awkwardly. "You will never see your car again,' another voice cried. Already Tish was feeling a little squeamish. Another of her wild impulses, Irene would say. But she had no time to worry. With three different washings and two children, she had her hands and mind full. For the next hour she filled driers, folded clothes, and tried to pacify children. HE children had cried when their mother left, but in a few minutes settled down to the joy of being entertained. 'Tish pushed the cart about as she moved from one machine to another. She tried to answer Darlene's questions and gave her all the small articles, sox, handkies, washcloths, to fold. Then, without warning, Mark was out of his cart and insisting on helping. Then, "I'm hungry," he announced. "Ym awful hungry,' Darlene added, "Mama always lets us eat." She started for the door, and 'Tish had to rush to catch her. Darlene tried to pull away and started to scream. Mark followed his sister's lead. A gitl laughed. Another one said, "You sure took on a job for yourself." "Do you know where they live?" Ginny asked. Tish shook her head. "TI haven't the faintest idea." She asked Darlene, and in one minute had received four different sets of directions. "Would you like me to go get some milk and crackers for them?" This from Ben. "Ts it far?'' "It is quite a way,' Ginny answered, "but he hasn't anything else to do." Tish tried to give Ben some coins but he pointedly ignored them. Darlene started running back and forth. Mark tried to keep up with her. They collided and Mark fell and hit his head a resounding whack on the floor. Tish took him in her arms and tried to comfort him, but he would have none of it. "Mama, STRICTLY FOR SILENCE 9 Mama," he wailed, and tried to push himself from Tish's arms. "Oh, dear." 'Tish began to wonder why the soldier didn't come back — and the store must be a long way from here. She tried pulling clothes from a drier with one hand while holding Mark with the other. Darlene reached in and dragged a sheet onto the floor. "Here you are." It was Ben with a quart of milk and a box of crackers. "I brought a cup, too. It is only plastic, but Ginny can sterilize it." ISH felt tears in her own eyes. She went to the bench and wedged her weight between two occupants. Darline took one drink of milk and then pushed the cup away. "I want some of this. It's pretty." She pointed to a soft drink dispenser. "Want pitty," Mark echoed. "IT want a_ cracker." Darlene reached for the box. Tish put the milk bottle in the window while she opened the cracker box. She gave them each one. "More," Darlene demanded. Tish gave them each three and then, putting Mark on the floor, she went back to unloading the drier. "Watch out!" someone shouted. Tish whirled in time to see Darlene grab the milk bottle. She couldn't hold it and the milk splashed over her face and dress. A watcher snatched the bottle before it was completely emptied. 'Tish took a towel from her own laundry and began to mop up the spilled milk. There was enough left in the 273 APRIL 1963 bottle for each to have another good drink. Then Darlene began crumbling her crackers on the floor. Mark dropped his and began stomping on it. Tish had about had it. No wonder Lola had been so happy to get away. She took Mark and put him in his push cart. "Now you stay there," she commanded. Immediatelv he began to crv. "He don't want to be in that thing,' Darlene declared, "do you, Markie?" She tricd to lift him out, but his foot caught and the cart tipped over, landing both children on the floor. "Hey. What's all this noise about?" It was the soldier returned. "Now vou cut it out." The masculine voice carried authority. Both voices stopped abruptly. "I know what you want, Bud." From a pocket the soldier brought a sucker for each of them. Any other time 'Tish would have strongly objected, but she was so relieved she said nothing. "I saw my boy," the soldier explained, "and I couldn't help buying the suckers." He laughed awkwardly. "Of course, I didn't intend to give them to him right away." He thanked 'Tish profusely and picked up his basket of folded clothes. "Lady, vou are really a great guy." ISH found a broom and swept up the cracker crumbs. Her lame ankle ached, her head was dizzy, and her stomach empty. What could be keeping Lola? The clothes were all done and folded. Eventually, Tish succumbed 274 to buying a bottle of pink pop which was strictly against her ideas for feeding children. She took Mark in her arms and, finding room on the bench, rocked him back and forth until he went to sleep. "T want to go home," Darlene whined. She took hold of 'Tish's hand and tried to pull her toward the door. "I want to go home." "Let's wait a minute for Mama, shall we?" Tish coaxed as she laid Mark on the bench. She took a heavy towel from her own basket and folded it under his head. "Come on,' she said to Darlene, "we'll walk outside the window and [ll tell vou another story." "T don't want another story. I want Mama." She pulled and tugged. Tish thought of calling Irene. She could not hold out much longer — but she would never learn, and she didn't want Irene to know about this. She looked at the pay telephone on the wall. She would wait another fifteen minutes. She gave Darlene another cracker, then, sitting on the chair by the mangle, took the girl on her lap. Darlene soon went to sleep, too, her head hanging heavy on 'Tish's arm. Tish began to consider calling the police to find her car, but she would never hear the end of that. There was one relief — the people who had seen her give the car keys to Lola had gone home long since. One thing Tish promised herself, from here on out she would really mind her own business. She was always too ready to trust people. Mark woke up and he awakened Darlene. Immediately they began calling for Mama. It was past noon — something had to be done. Tish started for the telephone, but stopped short when her car eased to a stop in front of the big window. Lola swung herself out and came swiftly into the room. The children ran for her, crying and laughing at the same time. Lola stooped and cuddled them. "Tm hungry." Darlene clung to her mother. Lola was wearing a different skirt now, and she looked very chic and very happy. "Oh, Mrs. Haworth, I am so sorry I was so long. I didn't realize how fast the time was going. You'll never know what you have done for me." "T hope you never know what you have done to me," Tish said under her breath, then added, "the radiance of your face is all the thanks I want. Now we must get these children home. Ill drive you home." HEN they were in the car Lola spoke again, "Mrs. Haworth, as you have likely guessed, Wylie, my husband, and I haven't been exactly pleasant to each other lately. I have been feeling so abused and housebound, and he has been so worried about meeting expenses. Well, driving that car lifted my spirits. I went home and dressed STRICTLY FOR SILENCE up, then I took his lunch down to him. He was so upset about my having your car, but when I told him how it came about, it did something to him. He told me how sweet I looked and said for me to wait." "You are sweet. Where to go." Lola gave directions, then continued, "Anyway, neither of us had had breakfast, so we found a little place where we could eat and talk. We haven't shared our thoughts in this way for — oh, ages. We unburdened ourselves and fell in love all over again. Conditions won't seem so crushing now, and it is all because of you. We decided as long as there are people like you, all is well with the world and we can't get pouty." As Tish entered her own home the telephone was ringing. It was Irene. "Mother, where in the world have you been? I have called and called." "Oh, I went on a short excursion, to a washateria." "Washateria. Of all things. I think you should let me know when you leave. What if something should happen to you?" "Something did happen, and you know what? I've found I am sort of crazy, but there are two or three things about me I like." Now tell me wo Me OF BeCaAtse it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth. — Nancy M. Armstrong 275 Y, =". 7, KS aw. Pee BN |; S e@ @ R@.. —. A ° aay Ruth G. Rothe NE fine summer day Mamma O packed some bushel baskets in the back of Thelma Perkins' pickup truck and sailed off with her to get some tomatoes. We had plenty of nice tomatoes in our garden for eating, but they were going to get canning tomatoes. Mamma says that any farm wife that doesn't have at least one hundred quarts of nice juicy tomatoes on her basement shelves for winter is a piker for sure.) They were laughing and visiting as they left our farm. Mamma had her blonde hair tied in a bright scarf that matched her blue-checked skirt and, beside Thelma, she looked like a teenager. Mamma isn't real skinny, but she is short and slender, and I think that's why Dad calls her doll sometimes. 'Thelma's on the heavy side, full of fun and easygoing about everything and everyone likes her. When they returned they weren't 276 laughing and visiting any more. Thelma had turned too short at a corer and the results hadn't been very good. They had both been shaken up, frightened, and excited, and Mamma had the beginning of a black eye! Most of all, she was just plain upset, and as she explained to the family later, "Thelma Perkins is the poorest driver in this county, the absolutely poorest excuse ever." We made tomato juice with the tomatoes that were left. When Mamma announced at the breakfast table next morning that she was going to start driving the car, I chuckled. 'The twins, Mary and Martha, gazed at Mamma's black eye and looked frightened as if they might start to cry. Jerry and Christine, the youngest of our family, just ate their cereal as if Mamma made this same announcement every morning. Tom looked at Mamma as if she really was going to have one of those nervous breakdowns she was always threatening to have, and said, "Why do you want to do that?" Dad looked a little bit uneasy and also a bit undecided about what to do or say before he said, ""There's no reason to learn to drive. Either Tom or I can take you where you want to go." "You've been real good about taking me places, [ll admit, and living where we do, some of my friends can pick me up on their way to town, but the more I think of it, lots of them aren't the best of drivers, either, and I've decided I want to be independent." Dad spoke up to say that, with all the accidents there were and the careless drivers like Thelma, maybe it was best not to have too many of the family driving. "Warren, the more I| think of it, I might have been killed yesterday. When I remember those lovely tomatoes bruised and broken all over the road, I think I have no alternative, I've just got to make the step." Tom smiled and said, "Gee, Mom, you act like it's just real easy or something. After all you've never even driven the tractor or anything." "Now don't try to stop me before I even start. Remember what Emerson said, 'Anything you persist in doing.'" Tom interrupted with a soft little laugh, but I could see, by the way Mamma looked, that she was determined to try it, and I guess the rest of the family saw it, too, because they soon quit trying to discourage her and talked about something else. Mamma hurried us a little so that IF AT FIRST she could get her work finished as soon as possible. She said that Aunt Betty was coming at ten to give her a driving lesson, so with something as definite as that, no one made much comment. HEN Aunt Betty arrived Dad and Tom were out in the field working, so she just parked her car in the shade, backed our car out of the garage and, with Mamma at her side, began explaining about the different levers, knobs, buttons, and such. Then they headed down the road, with Aunt Betty still at the wheel and Mamma watching carefully everything she did. They went up and down the road time after time, and Jerry and Christine waved and called, but Mamma didn't seem to take any notice of them. When I saw them coming again and spotted Mamma in the driver's seat, I cautioned the kids that they weren't to make one sound and make her nervous. She didn't go very fast, but she kept right on the road and seemed to be doing fine and I felt proud of her. Here, with only one lesson, she was already driving a car! After awhile Mamma drove into the yard and, with Aunt Betty's help, she stopped the car. The first lesson was over. Mamma looked shaky and upset when she got out of the car and seemed to be doubting if it had been such a good idea to try. Aunt Betty was offering encouragement, "Don't worry about it — you did fine for your first time." It wasn't until they were in the house starting dinner that Martha 277 APRIL 1963 noticed the dent in the nght hand fender. Not a big, squashy, rumpled dent, but a big noticeable dent, and I began feeling sorry Mamma had tried such a thing. I made sure that I was outside when Dad and Tom came in to dinner. Not that I was going to tattle on Mamma, but I knew they'd notice it without any help. They weren't blind. Tom saw it first, whistled a sort of low wolf-call whistle and said, "Boy, things just aren't going to be the same around here again." Dad bent down, examined it and, shaking his head, said, "Maybe Jim Porter can hammer it out and do a touch-up job on it. [''d hate to buy a whole new fender this soon." Tom looked at it again and then toward the house. "It might be best to wait until she's through learning and try to get everything taken care of at once. It would be a shame to fix the fender maybe six, seven times — might be cheaper to just wait and buy a new one at that." I don't know what they had planned to say to Mamma, but she handled it real fine when she met them at the door. "I see you've noticed my handiwork. Well, there's just one thing I want everybody around this house to understand. If I recall what's happened in the past, I have quite a few dents and scratches and bumps coming before I catch up with you two, so let's not fret about it and let the dinner get cold." When I thought about what she " had said I decided she was night. The old car had been battle-scarred when Dad traded it in last month. But I saw, too, that Mamma hardly 278 touched her favorite casserole, and I knew that she felt real bad about putting the first dent in the new car. The rest of the day Mamma debated about what to do. Perhaps she should forget it, perhaps she was as stupid as Thelma about driving a car. I thought she was going to talk herself into forgetting the idea for sure, but when Aunt Betty tried to show how nice it would be to jump in the car and go to meetings, sales, and such by herself, she said she'd think it over again. NEST day Mamma announced that Pearl Healy down the road had suggested she practice in one of the fields. Dad considered a minute, then said she could go in the grain stubble back of the house. Mamma went to answer the phone. Tom speculated, "Dad and I will be up in the north field — you kids can stay by the house — the animals are all penned in — she's got five acres in that piece, so how could anything possibly happen?" The rest of us didn't think it was so funny, but Tom just liked to kid about things. Dad drove the car out to the field and went to haul hay. Part of the time we leaned on the fence and watched Mamma. She would go down the length of the field, make her signals, turn one way or the other, just as if she was on a busy highway. Then she decided to practice backing. She started out fine. Then she was going in circles. Big circles, little circles, middle-sized circles. Just circles, circles, circles, and I could tell by the look on her face that she didn't know just what to do. I began wondering if she would keep at it until she ran out of gas, but finally she stopped and just laid her head back on the seat and rested for awhile. Next day she practiced some more, and then I had to get the tractor and pull her out of the ditch. That's right! There was only one ditch in the whole field, right along the top and, like Tom said, five whole acres to drive in, but somehow Mamma had managed to do the impossible, and she couldn't get out. We got the tractor and the car both back where they belonged before Dad and Tom got home for dinner, and I warned the kids not to say a word. Mamma probably would have told Dad about it herself, but Tom Sikes came along to talk over some business with him and stayed for dinner. Mamma was really discouraged by now and, as we did the dishes, I asked her to tell me the rest of the words that Emerson had said. She looked sort of dreamy-eyed for a minute, then she said, with a little smile on her face, " "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased.'"' She looked sad then as she shook her head, "But Pm afraid that it doesn't apply to driving automobiles." She stopped washing the dishes and just let her hands rest on the sides of the yellow plastic dishpan, then she began to smile, "You know, Lilly, Emerson also said something else that might be well for me to think of now, 'Do the thing and thou shalt have the IF AT FIRST If you cannot do it, do it? 99 power. And then you can. A few days later Aunt Betty came again and sat beside Mamma as she went up the road and down the road. When they returned there were no scratches, bumps, or dents. I hadn't had to get the tractor out. Mamma was smiling, Aunt Betty was smiling, and I was sure that everything had gone fine. I was beginning to feel encouraged. But I was too early! Next day Mamma needed a pattern for the costumes the twins were to wear in the Harvest Festival and decided there was no need to get Dad in from work to take her to get it. She would drive down to Mildred Yates' and get it herself. She was gone only an hour or so, but when she came in the house she was crying. She went right to her room and shut the door. I wondered if she had killed somebody or wrecked the car, but on investigation the car looked fine. I was debating about whether to go get Dad or what to do when she came out. Her eyes were still red, and she was still upset, but she told me what was wrong. Mamma had received a ticket! When she showed it to Dad, he looked at it, put his arm around her shoulder, and asked, "What did you do, Hon?" "I didn't do anything. They were having a road blockade, and I didn't dare turn around and leave when the policeman held up his hand, so I just stopped, and he asked to see my driver's license. I tried to explain that I'm just learning and he said maybe the judge would take that into consideration." 279 APRIL 1963 I thought she would start to cry again, but her lip just quivered and she blew her nose.... Golly, Mamma was really getting the experiences since she decided to try this new venture. Here in about a week, besides everything else, she had gone in a ditch, dented the fender, and become a criminal. What would she do next? NTIL she thought of the driving idea, Mamma had always read stories to us in the late afternoon, but not any more. 'The only reading she did now was in the little driving book. She would study what it said and go over and over each page, trying to pound in to her head what it meant so that she could pass the exam. The day that she went to pass the written test and get a learner's license, we were all worried that maybe Mamma wouldn't remember what was in the book, but she passed fine, and I reminded her that Emerson had been right. Two weeks later she and Dad left for the city. Today Mamma would take her driving test. When they came back Dad was driving. No amount of talking would convince Mamma that she would ever pass or for that matter ever drive again. She announced that the whole idea had been bad from the start, and that if anybody called her a quitter that was fine, because she would agree with them. She said the roads around our place weren't so bad but in the city, with all that traffic, it had scared her silly, and that the cross-looking officer made her knees shake just to think of him. 280 She didn't touch the wheel again, and when even Aunt Betty failed to persuade her to try, we knew she meant it. She explained that when she saw so many, many cars coming toward her she felt like just hiding her head and that she was still too scared to pass even slow old tractors ahead of her. We tried to forget that she had ever started to drive and perhaps it would have ended there, but we had an emergency! Tom had gone on an outing for the day, and Dad got his hand caught in the bailer as he was repairing it. It was just one of those things that happen for no good reason, but all the same it happened. Dad couldn't think of driving, but he could tell Mamma what to do. She must drive him to the doctor in the city, and there was no time to waste. I thought Mamma might faint, she's squeamish about blood, but between us we got a bandage on his hand. As we started to town, I sat in the front seat between them in case I was needed. When Mamma looked like she was getting worried, Dad just encouraged her on. She passed other cars coming toward us without hiding her head. She even passed a truck that poked along ahead of us. Mamma did herself proud. Dad said, "You did just fine, doll. But if you don't go get a license tomorrow, I'll make you ride with Thelma Perkins every place you go." Mamma was smiling happily as she said, "No need to threaten, Warren, I think you're night, just as right as — well, just as right as Emerson." | Never Knew My Grandparents Were Poor Mabel Luke Anderson HERE is an old Scottish song '5 that runs something like this, "My thoughts return to my own folks, though they be but humble, poor, and plain folks." I have treasured memories of my grandparents. Looking back now, and having experienced others ways of living as a comparison, I am sure they were poor folks. But I didn't know it then. Converts to the Church from Sweden, where they lived on a lovely estate in the beautiful lakeland, they came to Utah with very little money. Two days after arriving here their baby died, and it took the last money grandfather had to bury her. Offers of help came but, in pnde and independence, my grandfather said, "It is only work I need, or want, nothing I have not earned." He got that work and was able to provide for his family. That is indicative of the sort of people they were. "Something for nothing" was a phrase he never learned. In Sweden he had been a shoemaker on the estate of the Baron, where he made all of the shoes — the fine riding boots of the Baron, the dainty dancing pumps of the Baroness, and the solid, substantial shoes of the peasant farmers. After arriving in Utah, he took up land and became a small farmer, and thus they lived frugally, industriously, happily. As he grew older, he gave the farming work into the hands of his son and again took up his old occupation, only now, just as a cobbler. There was no "retirement" for him. And that is how I mostly remember Grandpa. He wore a heavy apron and sat with a last between his knees as he hammered on heels or half soles. Bits of leather were in a box on his bench. These we were allowed to play with, but the lasts and awls were forbidden instruments. My grandparents were folks of quiet dignity, with old world graciousness and manners, loving and kind. Gentle old hands laid kindly on our heads made us feel good, but we took no liberties with them. We loved them and we respected them. When we did wrong we were set right firmly and instantly, a spat or two, if we needed it. Never would we have thought of talking back to them. Grandma was neat and clean. Her hair was combed straight back and either a net or a lace cap covered it. At night she wore a beruffled nightcap. Her skirts swept the ground, and it seemed always (except at meeting) she wore a voluminous apron, even a white one with lace insertion when she went visiting. In her pocket or in a jar in the cupboard, were peppermint lozenges, or 281 APRIL 1963 lemondrops which we usually won with a few wiles. Their tiny home, snuggled close to the kindly soil, was cosy. The furnishings reflected the skills and crafts of humble folk. On the mantel shelf were glass and china ornaments, mementos, a vase of everlasting flowers, and the coal-oil lamp which would be transferred to the table when darkness came. A woven rag carpet over straw padding covered the front room floor. White crocheted doilies were on the cupboard shelves, on the chairbacks, and on the family pictures hanging on the wall. Crisp white curtains were at the windows, windows filled with carefully tended begonias and geraniums, and a hanging plant spangled with little white stars, appropriately called Star of Bethlehem. A water bucket stood on a bench, with a dipper hanging above. Not many years before she died she had a sink put in with running water, and she thought there was nothing that could surpass that luxury. Her coal stove shone, she was so proud of it. And always there was a steaming teakettle on it. E loved to stay at Grandma's, where we slept in a folding bed, sinking down into feather mattresses. I think, small as we were, we were aware of the simple artistry of the patchwork quilt that covered us. 'This was sanctuary. I still have one or two things of Grandma's, not priceless heirlooms, but comely souvenirs of simpler ways and days than our own. I don't suppose that in actual cash they had many dollars a year in their hands. A sugarbowl back 282 in the cupboard saved the money for taxes. 'There was never anything bought on credit. They were of the firm opinion that if you owed anything you never owned anything. They had a warm shelter from the elements, sufficient clothing to cover them, and of good substantial food there was plenty. 'The smell of Swedish baking of buns, breads, and caraway cakes was mouth watering. There were always honey cookies in the stone jar. In the deep, cool cellar pans of milk were in the screened cupboard, home-cured bacon and hams hung from nails in the ceiling. There were shelves of home-canned fruit and bins of apples, potatoes, and onions. We liked to eat at the grandparents' house; always there was a snowwhite cloth and milk out of a pitcher covered with blue flowers. When we wanted a "piece," Grandma would hold the huge loaf of homemade bread in the crook of her arm and spread the butter on the end, then cut an inch-thick slice. 'There were plenty of jams and preserves on the pantry shelf, but the rich, newly churned butter spread so thick your teeth left marks, was food fit for a queen. But there was a temptation to add a layer of groundcherry preserves or wild-plum jelly. Sure, memory colors it, flavors it, but was there ever anything more delicious? There were trees around Grandpa's house and deep grass, not often cut, to play in. A sturdy swing hung from a strong limb of one tree, and a homemade hammock strung between two others provided places to play. In June and July there was the sweet nostalgic smell of the summer apples to be had for the picking or climbing. When friends or family gathered at Grandma's, children went along. All were assured a welcome and no one was ever allowed to go without a taste of whatever was in the cupboard. No matter how busy our grandparents were, their eyes were alight with welcome. If it was a quilting party, we children loved to play under the quilt until we were sent outside, for they believed that children should be seen and not heard — too much. There were happiness and good cheer at those gatherings. I am sure there was no talk of salaries, of strikes, of wage boosts, of diets and installments and automobile problems. Surely they had their troubles; certainly, if we had to live as they did, we would think so, but life seemed to be free from financial urgency. I am sure that the last thing that worried them was keeping up with their neighbors. But it wasn't all play and fun when we went to visit the grandparents. They believed that, beginning young, one must be taught there was work in this world to do, and no one had any right to get out of it. We fed the pigs and! NEVER KNEW MY GRANDPARENTS WERE POOR chickens, herded the cow; into a little basket we gathered eggs, carried in chips for the fire; standing on a stool by the table, wiped dishes, and sitting on the same stool at Granny's knee, we learned to dam. We learned that there must be thythm, as we churned and watched expectantly for the butter to Because they were Swedish, June 23, midsummer, meant much to them and, together with other Swedes in town, they celebrated. And we were included. 'There were singing and games and stories of the "old country." With life lived at a similar level, they found fresh savor in smaller things. Were they really poor, those folks? Remembering those days gives me an illusion of sharing in a way of life that has gone forever, but nothing can take away this childhood dowry of essential goodness. I know now that my grandparents were poor, but only in superficial things thought to be important now, for they were rich in faith, love, humility, kindliness, frugality, honesty, industry, Christian virtues. Because of them I am rich — rich in the heritage they left me. GLARE AND MOONLIGHT Ip CORING out from a brightly li important. Of great enchantment., the moonlight seems dim and unWalking outside, ala gam, he to it, moonlight is a glow Just so, I must not let the glare of prejudice blind me to the beauty of character of others I meet. — Celia L. Luce 283 "MAMA" Anna Duncan 7 gee streams of warm milk sang happily as they hit the bottom of the shiny pail. Mama sat on a battered, old feed bucket she had turned over for a milking stool. She rested her cheek against the cow's warm flank and stripped the milk methodically into the pail. It splashed and splattered against the inside of the bucket. I straddled the corral fence and watched the frothy white liquid rise higher and higher in the bucket. Mama's hands closed and opened with rhythmic regularity. The fingers were brown and strong. [ listened to the zing-zang, zing-zang of the milk against the metal. It made me drowsy, and I half closed my eyes until everything before me became one brown, blurred form. The rough pole fence felt scratchy against the inside of my bare knees. A soft breeze swept past my face, bringing with it the odor of hay and warm milk, and the thought of Papa away in the high hills herding sheep. I opened my eyes again and watched Mama finish milking. She moved from one cow to another until the bucket was full. She stood up and lifted the bucket of foaming liquid high above her head, slipping the wire handle over a rafter so that the cows wouldn't kick it over. I jumped down beside her, and we walked together to the haystack. "Let me, let me," I begged, taking hold of the smooth-handled pitchfork and spearing it into the hay. I pushed and 284 pulled, grunting with exertion, but the hay wouldn't come loose. Mama laughingly took the pitchfork from my hands and began to fill the mangers with dry hay. The cows all moved expectantly toward the manger, picking up the prickly stems into their wide, moist mouths and chewing lazily. I found my own mouth moving sideways and round and round as I watched the animals eat. "Must feel mighty stickery," I said, watching. Mama's ample figure swayed in rhythm to the work. Little wisps of chestnut-colored hair escaped from the soft bun at the nape of her neck and curled pleasantly around her flushed face. I filled my arms with hay and carried it to the manger. I could feel the dry stems sticking into my bare arms and through the front of my dress. 'The hay was scratchy and made my nose itch. I dumped the armload of hay into the trough and walked back for more. "Whew," I breathed after a few trips. Mama stood resting for a moment, leaning against the pitchfork. "Looks like it might rain," she observed, looking into the sky. The clouds moved slowly across the pale blue heavens. I could imagine what it would be like to be up there lying in the fluffy, white mass. One of the bigger clouds looked like a great big, bulgy elephant with a curvy trunk. It slowly moved into the shape of a clown and the trunk turned into a pointed hat. "Come along, Sister," Mama said to me. We stopped to pick up the bucket of milk. I took hold of one side of the handle and helped her carry the milk to the house. The evening breeze caught Mama's cotton skirts, swirling them around her brown, bare legs. The metal handle cut into my hand and I turned loose and rubbed the crease that the handle had left in my palm. Mama held out her firm brown hand to me, and I moved around and took hold of it. It was nice and warm. I held it tightly as we swung happily along to the farmhouse. Inside the kitchen, Mama poured the clean, white milk into several shallow pans and carried them carefully to the pantry, where she placed them on rough board shelves to cool. The rest of the milk went into the big, silver separator bowl. I took hold of the crank and began to turn it around and around. Mama closed her hand around mine and gave a few quick turns until the machine began to hum in a high-pitched whir. Mama's eyes were close to the mirror that hung over the washstand. I could see them reflected as I helped her turn the separator handle. Around and around it whirred cheerfully. She let loose the handle and let me keep it going. I liked to watch the lines crinkle around Mama's soft gray eyes when she laughed. We both turned to watch the bluish skimmed milk pour from the one spout and then a thin stream of yellow cream came from the other "MAMA" spout. I looked back into Mama's face and, sure enough, the lines were crinkling. When Mama came back into the kitchen, she busied herself at the old, black coal stove. She lifted the lid of the firebox and poked the burning coals with a long, steel poker, then she picked up the coal bucket and sprinkled the small chunks into the glowing fre. As Mama opened the oven door of the stove, I could smell the newly baked bread — "Umm-m," I murmured. She tapped the loaves lightly with the tips of her fingers. Seeing that they were done, she gathered the pan up with the corner of her denim apron and carried the loaf pan to the cupboard where she dumped the plump, brown loaves onto a clean dish towel. I watched her take two blue glass bowls from the cupboard and fill them with chunks of steaming bread; she moved to the pantry and brought back a pan of last night's milk and skimmed the thick yellow cream over the broken bread chunks; she sprinkled the bread and cream with lots of sugar, and we sat down at the kitchen table to eat. "Say the blessing," Mama reminded me as she bowed her head over her folded hands. "God, bless Daddy while he is away — bring him back safely. We thank thee for this food, and for this lovely day. Amen." After supper was over and the dishes were washed, Mama pulled up the old black rocking chair close to the flickering fire glow and scooped me up into her warm comfortable lap; she held me close. Back and forth we rocked, back and forth. 285 APRIL 1963 She put her cheek down against my hair and sang a funny little ditty: "Waltz me around again, Willie, around, around, and around.. Mama's bed was big and soft and cool in the back bedroom. She gathered me into her arms, wrapping my feet in her huge flannel nightgown and curling her body close to mine under the fluffy patchwork quilts. I touched her hair as it lay spread out on the pillow; it felt crisp and wiry; there were springy waves that looked as if they might have been braided in, but were naturally there. I reached over and touched her smooth face, and she took hold of my hand and kissed each finger separately. We lay silently for awhile, then she reached up and turned off the light that hung from the bedstead. I could see the moonlight shimmering against the window and a few stars, way off, twinkling in the dark sky. A dog howled forlornly somewhere in the night; Mama's arms tightened reassuringly around me. I love you, Mama, I thought sleepily. A whiff of rainfilled air came through the open window I heard the drops begin to fall upon the roof of the farmhouse — pit-a-pat-splat, splat-pit-a-pat. "Goodnight, darling," Mama whispered in my ear. Sleep closed in, peacefully. Country Auction Ida Elaine James A grandmother's treasures of a long-gone year Are gathered together for the public, here: Her bureau, marked with homely scars and dents, (It held unfailingly for me pink peppermints). A shabby rocker covered with time-worn chintz Used long ago for twilight lullabying, Soothing children's hurts and weary crying; Rugs that she once diligently braided By lamplight, with their colors long since faded. Upon this whatnot, treasures stand at rest: A conch shell with a sea-song in its breast, Wax flowers under glass, each old knickknack With its own story-treasured bric-a-brac. Almost a fragrance rises to convince The nose of jelly from sturdy kettles, mince And pumpkin pies; here heavy flatirons tell Of patient hands and fluted miracle. Now they wait amid the busy clamor The final sounding of the auction hammer — Safe in my heart are locked, where they will stay, The memories of their golden long-gone day. 286 Joan H. Haskins HEN I was five years old, an imitation diamond ning, costing ten cents, was my most valued possession. My parents bought this ring for me during a vacation trip. I was continuously holding my finger to a window so that when the light from the sun fell on the stone, a multitude of colors emitted from it. I was delighted with my ring and _ never grew tired of admiring its beauty. But, one morning in the hurried confusion of packing to leave our hotel room, my precious ring was left lying on the edge of the bathtub. I had placed it there so its brilliance would not be dulled as I bathed. It was not until we had traveled too far from the hotel to return, that my bare finger reminded me of my forgetfulness. This childish episode was called to my mind one day recently, as I looked through my children's pockets prior to washing their clothes. Each pocket contained two or three rings intermingled with a variety of other gimmicks. Earlier that morning I had found a Popeye ring behind the couch, and an Indian one in the pin dish. These were not expensive rings— most of them had been cheap prizes, but as I gazed at the bits of 288 tin, I recalled my sparkling diamond and the great joy it had brought to me. I wondered if we weren't doing a wrong to our children by giving them too much. The wrong lay not only in too many cheap rings, but in all their other material possessions. Cathi, our four-year old daughter, had more dolls than she could stuff into her buggy. 'The boys could scarcely walk through their room without stepping over quantities of trucks, baseball equipment, and every contrivance Santa's toy shop had ever manufactured. Our children, with their many toys, had been deprived of one of life's greatest pleasures—the pleasure of anticipation. We had satisfied their every whim. Not one of them had saved for weeks to obtain enough money to buy a toy of his choice. We had, foolishly, rushed out and bought it for him. I determined to change this. Ralph Waldo Emerson voiced this idea when he stated that one of the most important factors in shaping his life had been want. Wendell Phillips said: "Wants awaken intellect.... The keener the want, the lustier the growth." I recalled the corncob dolls and the hand-carved whistles that were the playthings in my past. Wanting a toy then had led children to improve their skill and inventiveness as they made these items. Not long ago while skating at a public pond, this same inventiveness was being demonstrated by a small, vivacious boy. He _ lacked skates, so was shuffling across the ice in an oversized pair of rubber boots. As I talked to him, he enthusiastically told me that he would receive his skates next Christmas. He was anticipating the possession of his skates with the secret inner glow that comes from wholesome desire, but, while waiting for his prize, he was enjoying himself in his big boots as much as any of the other children with their fanciest ice skates. Apparently, his parents had taught him the important lessons of frugality and self-control. At past Christmases I used to feel like a greedy giant, as I viewed the bewildered remains of a bevy of nonsensical gifts given our children, who, overcome with the number and complexity of playthings, usually ended the day by turning to an old familiar toy, rather than coping with the impossible task of deciding which new one to try. DO WE GIVE TOO MUCH? Before last years' Christmas, we held a family discussion. Each one decided to do without one large gift so that he could help a less fortunate family. The children were enthusiastic about this idea. Selecting a small tree and buying toys and clothing for the underprivileged family were the most rewarding parts of our holiday season. We hope to continue this practice so that we may again experience the special tranquility that comes with the giving of ourselves. Since we started to cut down on monetary pursuits, we have been cheerfully surprised to learn that our most successful family outings have been those which have re quired little financial support. One day we rode to a canyon and hiked through the woods. As we crunched through the brittle foliage, exclaiming delightedly at each new color evident on the trees, we felt God's generosity expressed in nature. Each tried to be his most delightful self so that this would be a special day. We realized the value that comes from the gift of love and knew that this gift could not be overdone. It is only the shallow stuffing of material gifts that frustrates and stifles our children. Ask yourself, am I giving too many material gifts? SELF-PORTRAIT \ X JE each paint the canvas of our own life. Ill, the lives of those who view the picture. Clean-cut brush strokes? Vibrant, harmonious? Picture out of balance? Or does our picture lack conviction. Or are they cold, inert, confused? Lasting values in relief and made the minor, trivial ones mere shadows? Ilow we paint, will affect, for good or Are we painting with bold, true, Are our colors warm, Have we placed the major, Or is) @tir No life-portrait is perfect. Let's retouch the canvas now, before it dries, to bring it nearer our desired goal of perfection. — Nancy M. Armstrong 289 hAAt mm on om pe 7 e a; | Winnifred Jardine S our young son, just Priesthood age, was readying for bed one Fast Sunday evening, he commented casually, "Do you know, Mom, we've said twenty-three prayers today." On enumerating them in the way of a teen-age boy, it wasn't hard to reach twenty-three at all. And I thought to myself, add onto those all the prayers of a mother, and the number would soon be lost. It is not only the secret prayers that a mother utters on her knees when she first slips out of bed in the morning, nor the one before a serious talk with her daughter, or after disciplining a son, nor when she prays for children during illnesses or exams, nor even her prayers for a husband's business problems. But it is also the many prayers she says with her children. Sister Lina Sonntag, who reared twelve fine sons and daughters (among them stake presidents, bishops, high councilmen), told me many years ago that she knelt down with every one of her children at night individually for his evening prayers, even when each was old enough to be coming in from dates. It didn't matter that she knelt down ten times during an evening. What really mattered was that each child knelt down once. During these hurried times, holding family prayers both night and morning isn't easy. It is a temptation to let them go occasionally or to hold them with only part of the family present. Gathering all family members about, be it early or late, under the loving authority of the father, is best, of course. But when this isn't possible, then the mother should be the connecting link of prayers held by the family. She can pray with the one who must leave before six a. For seminary. She can pray again with husband and school children. And if there is a little one who is ill and needs extra sleep, she can kneel again in prayer with him, so he, too, has participated. Again, it doesn't matter that she has said morning prayers three times. What does matter is that every child feels that he was present for family prayer. When a youngster has a difficult assignment or a special problem, it is the mother who encourages him to kneel with her to ask his Heavenly Father's help. When he has erred in his actions, it is the mother who kneels with her arm around him while he prays for forgiveness. And when he has received a blessing in abundance, it is the mother who reminds him in his joy that he should also kneel in thanksgiving. A mother needs to talk to the Lord often with her children. She must remember the prayer needs of each individual child and see that they are met, no matter how many times she gets to her own knees to do it. What better way can she keep the commandment of the Lord, "And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (Doctrine & Covenants 68:28). 290 |) Fuel Brimhall Paulson, Sacramento, California, loves to paint landscapes and still life. She is especially interested in painting indoor floral arrangements and outdoor fields of flowers. Her landscapes reflect an intimate feeling for the scenery of Arizona and New Mexico, where she lived before moving to California. Mrs. Paulson has become proficient in the use of both water colors and oils, employing the medium most suitable for each subject. Music has long been a sort of second hobby for Mrs. Paulson. She has served as ward organist, and organist for the auxiliary organizations in the wards where she has lived, often acting, also, as accompanist for choirs and solo and duet singing. She has found an artistic and creative relationship in the arts of music and painting, for she has particularly noted rhythm and color and tone in these arts. Mrs. Paulson has long served Relief Society as a visiting teacher, and has been active in work meeting activitigs. She is now a widow and two of her four sons are deceased. She has seven grandchildren. 291 VEGETABLE RECIPES Mary ]. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Asparagus Casserole 2 one-pound cans green asparagus cans cream of mushroom soup 1% four-ounce cans whole, button, pinch each of salt and sugar or sliced mushrooms tbsp. Butter, melted lightly 5 hard-boiled eggs can small green peas 1 lemon N = N Grease a shallow casserole or pan. Lay asparagus crosswise. Cover with sliced hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of peas. Sprinkle melted butter, then a layer of mushrooms, a little lemon juice, 1 can of cream of mushroom soup. Repeat the above layers, and top with toasted bread crumbs rolled fine, melted butter, and paprika. Cook in moderate oven (350°) about 15 minutes. String Beans 2 pkgs. Frozen French-cut beans 1 can mushroom soup cooked and seasoned 1 can fried onions Put in casserole, top with plenty of nippy cheese. Bake in 350° oven for 15 or 20 minutes. 292 UNUSUAL VEGETABLE RECIPES FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Zucchini Slice 7 or 8 zucchini % inch thick and parboil in enough salted water to cover. In frying pan saute 1 bell pepper sliced, and one medium-sized onion sliced. Add to drained zucchini. Add parsley to taste, finely chopped, and one can of water chestnuts, sliced thin. Season with Italian seasoning (a combination of seasonings), or salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together, put in casserole, and cover with grated cheese. Bake 15 to 20 minutes at 350°. Onions and Raisins 2 lbs. Small white onions 4 €. Vinegar /2 ¢. Seedless raisins % c. Tomato sauce 1 ¢. Water 3 tbsp. Oil or butter "4 €. Sugar salt and pepper Cook raisins and onions until tender in syrup made by first bringing sugar, water, and vinegar to a boil. Add tomato sauce, butter, salt, and pepper. Tomato Fritters 1 qt. Tomatoes "2 ¢. Cornstarch 3 slices onion one egg, or more, slightly beaten 6 whole cloves cracker crumbs 3 tbsp. Butter beaten egg "2 tsp. Salt fat for frying 2 tbsp. Sugar Cook tomatoes, onion, and cloves 15 minutes, strain, and add butter, salt, and sugar. Mix % cup cornstarch with cold juice. Cook 5 minutes and add egg slightly beaten. Cook two more minutes. Cool until firm. Cut in squares (not too large), roll in cracker crumbs, egg, and more cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. Fancy Spinach Saute 1 tbsp. Chopped onion in 2 tbsp. Butter. Season well with paprika. Add 1 tbsp. Flour and blend, then add %% cup milk (half evaporated) and cook. It makes a medium thick cream sauce. Add dash of tabasco. Add 1 package of cooked frozen spinach and salt to taste and pour into greased casserole. Add sliced cheese and buttered bread crumbs, sprinkle with paprika, brown in oven. Carrots Supreme 2 c. Finely cubed carrots (pre-cooked for 1-1 tbsp. Fat for frying ten or fifteen minutes in enough (butter or bacon grease) water to cover ) 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Chopped onion % ¢. Liquid from carrots 2 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 4 tbsp. Cream salt to taste 3 tbsp. Buttered bread crumbs Cook onion and green pepper in fat until soft (not brown). Add flour and juice from carrots, salt, and cream, and cook until mixture thickens (makes nice thick white sauce). Combine carrots with sauce. Cover with crumbs. Bake 20 minutes or until brown at 350°. E 293 APRIL 1963 ¢ atdat-le Raar wind ~r € malalataltalr~ 6 large leaves of cabbage % c. Butter, melted boiling water to cover cabbage ' c. Finely chopped celery 1% tsp. Salt % c. Finely chopped green pepper 2 c. Ground corned beef "2 ¢. Diced fresh tomato 1% c. Soft bread crumbs ' c. Finely shredded carrots 8 tbsp. (% c.) finely chopped onions 1 c. Plus 2 tsps. Water % tsp. Freshly ground black pepper 1 tsp. Cornstarch 1. Preheat oven to 350° with rack in center. 2. Place the cabbage leaves in a saucepan with boiling water to cover, containing one teaspoon of salt. Cover and cook on top of stove three minutes, or until leaves have wilted. Drain, reserving two tablespoons of the stock. 3. Mix the corned beef, bread crumbs, four tablespoons of the onion, one-quarter teaspoon of the salt, black pepper, butter, and stock. 4. Lay cabbage leaves flat and top each with one-half cup of the corned beef mixture. Fold leaves over stuffing and fasten ends with toothpicks. Put in a shallow baking dish. 5. Cook together the celery, green pepper, carrot, tomato, one cup of the water, and remaining onion. Add the remaining salt, bring to a boil, and cook two minutes. Pour over cabbage rolls. Cover and bake 30 to 4o minutes, basting occasionally. Remove cabbage rolls to a serving dish. 6. Blend the cornstarch with the remaining water. Add to the sauce and cook, stirring one minute, or until thick. Pour over cabbage rolls. Six servings. (Copyright by New York Times. Reprinted by permission. ) Green Rice 2 c. Uncooked rice 4 eggs, beaten 2 c. Cheddar cheese ' c. Melted butter 2 c. Milk 1 small onion, chopped 2 c. Chopped parsley salt to taste 1. Boil rice in salted water until tender. Drain. 2. Grate cheese and chop parsley and onion. 3. Add all other ingredients to rice. Bake % to 1 hr. In 350° oven. Put into mold ring. In center put creamed ham and mushrooms. Mashed Potato Surprise % c. Butter pepper 1 ¢. Finely chopped onion 2 tsp. Parsley, minced 1 lb. Fresh sliced mushrooms mashed potatoes salt butter for topping as needed Melt butter and add chopped onion. Cook until soft, then add mushrooms and cook five minutes. Season with salt and pepper and parsley. Cover bottom and sides of a 2-qt. Casserole with a coating of butter, then a thick layer of mashed potatoes. Fill hollow in the center with the onion and mushroom mikxture and cover with more mashed potatoes. Dot with butter. Bake in a 500° oven until browned, about fifteen minutes. 294 UNUSUAL VEGETABLE RECIPES FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Vegetable Casserole 4 tomatoes 2 large sticks celery 2 onions salt 2 potatoes pepper 3 carrots butter for topping Slice vegetables fine. Place in layers with salt and pepper in casserole. Put four pats of butter on top. Cook at 375° 1% hours. Canned tomatoes may be substituted. Serves 6-8. Clam and Eggplant Casserole 1 eggplant 1 egg, beaten % \b. Butter or margarine 1 can minced clams 1% c. Cracker crumbs seasonings to taste Pare, dice, and boil eggplant until soft. Drain, add butter, cracker crumbs, egg, and clams, including liquid. Season to taste, pour into buttered casserole, and bake in a moderate oven 30 to 45 minutes. Serves 6-8. M sshr elejsar F | orentine 1 Ib. Fresh mushrooms " c. Melted butter 2 pkgs. Frozen spinach 1 c. American Cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Salt garlic salt % ¢c. Chopped onions Wash and dry mushrooms. Slice off stems and slice mushrooms. Saute caps and stems until brown. Line a shallow 1% inch deep casserole with defrosted, uncooked spinach which has been seasoned with salt, chopped onion, and melted butter. Sprinkle with % cup grated cheese. Arrange mushrooms over spinach. Season with a little garlic salt. Cover with remaining cheese. Bake for 20 minutes at 350° or until cheese is melted and browned. Serves 10. Spinach Pea Souffle 1 pkg. Frozen peas 4 egg yolks beaten 1 pkg. Frozen spinach 4 egg whites beaten stiff 1 pt. Thick white sauce Cook peas and spinach until tender and make into puree with blender or sieve. Add white sauce and egg yolk and mix. Fold in egg whites. Cook in double boiler for 1 hour, or in mold in oven (in pan of water) at 350°. Serves 10-12. Onion Souffle 1 ¢. Sliced or diced onion 1 c. Milk 3 tbsp. Butter 3 egg yolks, well beaten 3 tbsp. (or more) flour 3 egg whites, beaten stiff salt and pepper to taste Cook onion in butter until yellow. Blend in flour, add seasonings and milk and cook until thickened. Add egg yolks and cook slowly for 1 minute. Cool for ten minutes or more. Fold in egg whites and bake in unbuttered dish at 350° for about 30 minutes or until firm. Serves 6-8. 295 APRIL 1963 Band for Asparagus To the white of 1 hard-boiled egg finely chopped, add yolk forced through sieve, 1 tbsp. Each of pickle and pimento finely chopped, 1 tbsp. Parsley, finely chopped. Pour French dressing over the mixture. Put this as a band across spears of cooked asparagus before serving. White Sauce (Medium) 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Flour ' tsp. Salt % tsp. Pepper % tsp. Paprika 1 c. Milk Melt butter in top of double boiler over boiling water. Blend in flour, salt, pepper, and paprika. Add milk gradually. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened and smooth. Morning in a Garden Sylvia Probst Young Day opens in my garden to a rose, Pink beauty glowing with the dew's caress, To queenly, blue delphinium and phlox. Her golden fingers touch with gentleness Young pansy faces, gladiola cup, The leaves of silver birch.... My eyes look up — The sky, wide arched above — serenity. Now in my garden in this waking hour My heart is lifted to a quiet peace, With singing bird, with every blooming flower; Softly I walk in morning's solitude, My garden speaks an answer — God is good. 296 What Did | Do Today? Helen Sue Isely The day is finished And the chirping twilight Fluffs out its golden feathers. What did I do? How did I spend my hours today? I listened to a meadow lark Tuning its bell voice, Calling for spring. I watched a nuthatch Go up and up a tree And round and round a limb And out upon a twig And over to another tree. I dream-shipped awhile With a large pigeon, Flapping big mauve and white wings Faster and faster, Farther and farther into the distance, Until he seemed no bigger Than a speck of star dust. I forgot many things today... January ice The heavy frost in March But I touched a thousand dreams, And one flaming truth took wings in my heart — Spring is here! 297 INCE chicken is a favorite of mine, and of many other people, I am happy to pass along some of the recipes that I have collected. Barbecue Chicken one large chicken, cut in pieces '4 c. Lemon juice jiffy barbecue sauce 3 tbsp. Sugar % ¢. Chopped onion 3 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce /, ¢. Cooking oil 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard % c. Tomato catsup 2 tsp. Salt % c. Water /> tsp. Pepper Cook onion until soft in a little water. Mix the remaining ingredients and heat. Pour into the onions and simmer 15 minutes. Arrange the pieces of chicken in a baking dish and pour the sauce over them. Bake 1% - 2 hours at 350 degrees. Place the cover on the dish after the sauce has started to bubble. (This sauce is good also on hamburgers or hot frankfurters. ) Serves 6. Chicken and Asparagus 2 tbsp. Shortening or cooking oil 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Flour 2 c. Diced cooked chicken "% tsp. Salt 2 ¢. Cooked asparagus tips, cut into pepper to taste 2-inch lengths paprika to taste tbsp. Chopped pimento 2 C. Cream or evaporated milk N Melt the shortening. Mix the flour and seasonings together and pour into the melted fat; stir until smooth. Add the cream and stir constantly until slightly thickened. Pour over the beaten egg and blend; add the chicken, asparagus tips, and pimento, and heat thoroughly. Serve on hot toast. Serves 4. This may be placed in a greased casserole with % c. Cracker crumbs sprinkled over the top and baked in the oven. 1 c. Of cooked broccoli could be used instead of asparagus. Chicken Dressing Casserole % c. Chopped celery 6 c. Dried bread broken into small pieces "2 ¢. Chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley dash of pepper " ¢. Butter Y, - 1 tsp. Poultry seasonin 3 - 4c. Cooked diced chicken P. Poultry 8 __Saute for about 5 minutes the celery, onion, and parsley in the butter; add the chicken, broken bread, and seasoning. 'Toss together thoroughly, and pour into a <. Casserole. Cover with chicken custard. Erves 8. 298 CL Myrtle E. Henderson Chicken Custard 1 c, chicken fat (part shortening, if 4 Slightly beaten eggs desired ) 1 c. Milk 1 c. Sifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 4 c. Chicken broth Melt chicken fat in large saucepan, and blend in the 1 c. Sifted flour. Gradually add the chicken broth and milk; stirring constantly. Add salt. Cook until very thick. Blend in the slightly beaten eggs and cook over low heat 3 - 4 minutes. Remove from heat and pour over the chicken and vegetable mixture. Bake 20 - 25 minutes at 350 degrees. Chicken Croquettes 1% c. Ground, cooked chicken 1 c. Thick white sauce 1 tsp. Celery salt 1 c. Fine bread crumbs 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. Chopped parsley % tsp. Onion juice salt and pepper to taste Add the chicken, seasonings, lemon juice, and parsley to the white sauce. Cool and shape into croquettes. Dip into crumbs then into egg mixed with onion juice and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat from 2 to 5 minutes. Molded Chicken Salad 1 envelope unflavored, unsweetened 1 tsp. Lemon juice gelatin 4% c, mayonnaise or salad dressing % c. Cold chicken stock 1 c. Diced cooked chicken % ¢. Hot chicken stock 3 tbsp. Minced green pepper % tsp. Salt % c. Diced celery Soften gelatine in cold chicken stock in top of double boiler. Add hot stock and salt and stir over boiling water until gelatin is dissolved. Cool and stir in the lemon juice and mayonnaise. Combine with the chicken, green pepper, and celery. Pour into large or individual molds. Makes 6 servings. Heaven Scent Carolyn Kay Despain Flowers bloom Beneath a sea of air And each sundrop Caresses with a flare The fabric of a petal. Drowning in a sun-drenched earth, Each breath will drink With loving mirth To weave its scented mettle. 299 SPRAY IT. Hs: ° y ' "9% mS QZ te > oe 4 DA Janet W. Breeze ON'T toss out that old mirror just because the frame reveals its age. Instead, give it a whole new decorative lease on life. All you need is a can of spray enamel (gold, pink, baby blue, or white), artificial: flowers, thin wire, and a staple gun or thumbtacks. Remove mirror from frame if possible. If not, tape newspaper to glass to prevent it from being painted. If paint should get on mirror, it can be scraped off later with a razor blade. Give the flowers about a 4" stem, and wire them together in an attractive arrangement which measures approximately 5" x 2". Mix in leaves, and do this until you have enough groupings to cover your frame. Staple or thumbtack flowers to frame until covered well, centering a fuller grouping at top. If frame is metal, or if you wish to decorate a mirror which has no frame, adhere flowers with a strong jewelry cement. Fill in-any bare spots with an added leaf or flower. Now spray 300 _." SPRAY IT WITH FLOWERS lightly with enamel, following instructions on manufacturer's label. For a truly porcelain or gilded look, apply paint in several thin coats, letting each coat dry thoroughly. Return mirror to frame and hang as a bedroom eye-catcher or a bathroom dazzler. The same principle of sprayed flowers can be applied to many other household castoffs, such as dressing-table lamp stands, picture frames, and bath salt bottles. For a "new" lamp, first select a new shade, or fabric to cover the old one. Then, in a harmonizing color, spray the entire lampstand to which flowers have been glued at the base. For decorating clear glass bottles, remove lid and spray (preferably gold). Spray also the flowers selected for decorating the bottle. The flowers should have stems and leaves removed before spraying. When thoroughly dry, glue flowers and leaves to bottle in an attractive arrangement. 301 How 40 make 4 Drusilla Ferree | YARD OF BURLAP Materials: 3" HANDLES 1 yard any color BURLAP (36" 3" HANOLES wide) 1 linen-looking, plastic window shade (3' x 6') thread 30" BAe felt scraps glue The diagram shows five linings, one lining each for five bags. The. Diagram of material for the bags K— 18" —pl<—— 16" ——"} shows two bags cut from the 36- LINING 3/X 6' inch burlap. Three linings will be - (plus 14" hem) x left over. If these are used later, the approximate cost of each bag would be 70 cents. 13+ 3% EXCESS 163%" Ke Burlap and lining materials for each bag are cut in one piece and require no seam at the bottom. | There will be four extra 1" x 27" strips of lining for handles left over. 27" Procedure: @xcESsS on Cut burlap down center. You will have 2 pieces 18" x 36". Now from each piece cut 2 handles for each bag 3" x 18". (You should have 2 bags 18" x 30", and 4 handles 3" x 18".) 27 " EXcESS Lining: From window shade cut 5 lin- 7" 7 ings and 10 handles (take out te bts 3' — stitched hem as you will need the entire shade). 302 | 5 VUUAY UAL CUI LUUA LUA Linings for bag 16%" x 27" Linings for Handles 1" x 27" ~ Cut lining handles (1" x 27") in half (now 2 pieces 1"x 13%"), ss reer --<| |--—-—-=e0 Cover handle lining with 3" x 18" burlap pieces and trim off excess burlap. The burlap will completely cover lining so no lining will show. Machine stitch both sides of handles. With right sides of material together (lining centered in middle of burlap) and handles between lining and burlap with inside edge of handles 12" from center of bag, sew lining, burlap, and handles at the ends. Turn bag and sew approximately | %"" from top edge of burlap. You WW will note that lining is shorter and narrower than the burlap, and so you will have approximately %" burlap top edge, in- (>) side the bag. Fold bag and stitch on right side of material approximately 1%" from outside edge. Now fringe outside edges approximately %" wide. Un sag LANL Decorate by gluing felt-designed flowers, animals, birds, geometric designs, etc., or make yarn designs, or decorate in. Any manner you desire. 30 Ww Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, feels lonely and discouraged as she tries to adjust to her new surroundings in a small town near Salt Lake City. Dick has taken her to the shabby old family home, and her new household consists of Dick's Grandfather, his Aunt Ella, and his small handicapped brother David. However, as Irene and Ella scrub and clean and polish the house, a feeling of belonging there comes to Irene, and she feels a loving tenderness toward David and a responsibility for the boy. UMMER aged rapidly as work S on the house progressed. Hot gusts of wind slapped at Irene as she hurried to and from necessary errands. Infrequent thunder showers gave little respite. 'They arrived too seldom and were obliterated too soon by the acid sun. Granddad met her late one sweltering afternoon as she hurried into the inviting coolness of the house. The thick walls rejected much of the heat, keeping the interior refreshingly cool. "Hot weather getting you down?" he asked kindly. "You forget where I come from." She shook her head. "South Africa is much hotter than this. I'm used to heat." She shifted her. Groceries from one arm to the other. "Here, let me take those for you," Granddad said. She relinquished them as they made their way to the 304 kitchen, and he went on, "Well, if we can endure it for another month or so, the weather will start to break. Some folks like spring best of any time of year. I like it, too, after months of winter, but autumn is my favorite. Wait until you see our mountains in the fall of the year. They're almost too beautiful to be true. All red and gold and brown and yellow... And a little green that's too tenacious to change until snow falls. Ella goes into the hills and brings back huge bouquets of fall leaves to decorate the house for Thanksgiving. 'The heat loosens its grip, and the nights are cool. We have a little rain, but not a lot. Yes, if I had to choose a time of year, it would be the autumn." Irene sighed. She didn't fully appreciate the picture he had painted with words, for she had never experienced that of which he spoke. "In a way I like the heat. It reminds me of home." Granddad was aware of her homesickness. When she received a letter from South Africa, she would be quiet and withdrawn into her own thoughts for hours. He wanted to tell her that Spencerside was her home. The house they labored over so lovingly was her home as well as theirs. In his wisdom, Granddad knew it would do no good to tell her these things. Such knowledge had to come from within Irene herself. She had to feel at home before she would be. The cool air of the house was intermingled with the strong odor of paint. Imposed over that was the aroma of bread baking. "How delightful!" Irene exclaimed. "You mean the bread? Ella bakes the best bread in Spencerside. She wanted to try out that new oven. I knew we'd have something homebaked. I thought it would be cake or pie, or maybe Davy's favorite peanut butter cookies. I'm glad she decided on bread." Flla was peeping into the oven through the window in the door at the richly browned loaves inside. "Ella, that bread smells wonderful," Irene said. "You mean you can smell something besides paint? 'That's nice to know." Ella picked up two hot pads and opened the oven. She turned the loaves out on the white tile counter, then straightened them proudly on a rack to cool. "It's cool in here," Irene said as Granddad began putting the groceries away. "It's like an oven downtown." LLA shrugged. She was more interested in the beauty that surrounded her in the new kitchen than in reports on the weather out- 'side. 'The new cupboards were fruitwood, stained and polished to a richly glowing hue. The wall where the two skinny windows used to be had been removed, and sliding glass doors opened onto the new terrace just outside. KEEP MY OWN "Has Dick come back from Salt Lake?" Irene asked. "No. 'There were some calls for him. I wrote down the messages." "Where's Davy?" Granddad asked. "He was here just a minute ago. He thought I was baking cookies, and when he saw I wasn't, he left. He may be upstairs in his room." Ella began measuring flour and sugar and shortening. "Can't disappoint the child. [ll just get some cookies baking while that oven's hot." 'The oven, then, had been approved. Irene's thoughts were still with Dick. "He was really working to get the contract he went to see about today. I do hope he gets it." Ella glanced over at Irene through a dust of flour on her eyelashes. "Did you go to the doctor today?" "Yes." Irene was weary. She known what question was coming next, and dreaded the prospect. "Did you talk to him about having the baby here at home?" "I told him you had suggested it. I told him it was a family tradition. 'All babies in the Spencer family are born in that house,' I said." "Well?" "He wouldn't hear of it." Ella stiffened. "Did you tell him I would be here to look after things? Dick and Davy were born in the big front bedroom upstairs, just as their father was. It's only fitting that Dick's son be born there, too." Granddad cut the end from a loaf of fresh bread. As he buttered it generously, he asked, "Don't you think the doctor knows best, Ella?" "Tush! Women have been having babies since time began. 'There's 305 APRIL 1963 never been the fuss made about it that there is now." Ella would not be gainsaid. "Ill phone the doctor myself. We'll straighten this out right now." She reached toward the phone. "No." Irene shook her head. "I'm sorry you're not pleased about it, but I prefer to have the baby in the hospital anyway. Even if the doctor didn't care. 'They'll take good care of us there." "Not as good as I would!" Ella beat her cookie dough vigorously. "It's the way things have always been done in the Spencer family. I don't know why we should change now. What was good enough for Dick's mother ought to be good enough for his wife." Irene's brittle patience had wor thin. "This is our decision, Ella, mine and Dick's. I feel better about going to the hospital, and the doctor advises it, so Dick will want me to do that. We've talked it over. Dick, the doctor, and I have made the decision." Granddad tried to ease the tension. "You seem convinced the baby will be a boy, Ella. What if Irene has a girl?" "Td like a girl," she said shortly, "but all the Spencer babies have been boys since your own father was born." Ella spoke as if that settled the matter. "Maybe it's time for a change. Variety is the spice of life, they say. Old as I am, if ''m going to have any of that spice, I'd better be getting started. I'd be pleased with a boy. But if the good Lord decides it's time to grace the line with a bit of femininity, I'll be pleased about that, too. It might be in- 306 teresting to think of the future in terms of petticoats and curls." RENE smiled wearily. "Ill have you both know it won't make one iota of difference to Dick and me. I'm going to have so many children that out of such an abundance Ill be fairly sure to get a supply of all the kinds there are." The telephone jangled before she finished speaking. It was a welcome break. FE lla's lips were pursed tightly in a thin line. She was beating her cookie dough with a vengeance. Irene picked up the receiver. "Hello." "Irene? Good news, honey. I got the contract. Gest to be let in this series. Puts me right in line for others, too. Get on your best bonnet and bustle, sweetheart, we're going out to celebrate." "Oh, Dick, that's just wonderful." "It's a big break for us." "A break you got because you've been working night and day to make it. I'm so proud of you, Dick." "Tll be home in an hour or so." 'There was a note of modest pleasure in his voice because she was One of the bigproud. "Can you be ready?" "Tl try. T've been in town all day." Not wishing to spoil the triumph for him, she added, "T'll go lie down for a few minutes, then Pll be rested and ready." "Fine. See you soon, then." As she replaced the instrument, she turned to Granddad and Ella. "Dick got the contract. Isn't that marvelous?" Granddad's face lit with a measure of her own sentiments. "It certainly is," he said. "I knew it wouldn't be much longer before he started moving ahead. He's a gogetter, that grandson of mine." Irene brushed his forehead with a kiss, relishing the companionship of mutual pride. She looked toward Ella's starched back, then left the room, knowing the older woman was still seething. Ella wasn't speaking. She was silent only when she was angry. The room next to Dick and Irene's had been converted to a nursery. Irene had adopted a habit of going through it each time she went to her own room. Being there gave her a great deal of pleasure. Today, as she stepped to the door, she saw Davy. He stood enraptured in the center of the gay yellow and white room. His large eyes noted every detail, from the nursery prints on the walls to the old-fashioned rocker that Ella had donated. Irene had made a thick cushion of pale yellow and white quilting for the back and seat of the rocker and the same material was repeated in the padding on a work table as well as in the covering on the chaise lounge under one of the windows. Most of all, Davy was fascinated by the bassinet. It stood in resplendent anticipation, a delicate puff of white eyelet ruffles and tiny yellow embroidered flowers. Davy's thin little hand touched a bit of fluff, and stroked a downy yellow comforter. Irene had mooned over the bassinet herself frequently, so she could understand Davy's obvious delight. "It's for the baby, Davy," she said. His eyes were expressionless as KEEP MY OWN they turned to her, but he didn't try to run away. She stood in indecision, wondering what she could do or say to strengthen this sudden acceptance of her presence. Davy solved the problem himself. He walked to the rocking chair and touched the polished arm of it, setting it in motion. 'They stood and watched the steady movement together. He looked up at her again. She was vaguely disappointed to see the vacant expression still on his face, but she managed to smile. He grinned in return, giving his elfin face a strange cross-expression between a smile and a void. He left the room as silently as he had probably come. Irene didn't have her usual sick feeling that he was trying to escape her. 'Through the wall of his silence, a root of understanding was forcing its way. She lay down on the massive fourposter bed that had been Dick's mother's before it was hers, but before she slipped into the refreshing oblivion of sleep, she murmured softly, half-aloud, "He understood. Davy understood." ICK was dressing for dinner when she wakened. It was nearly dark outside. "Oh, Dick, you should have awakened me. It's so late." "Not too late. Granddad said you were pretty tired when you got home this afternoon." He walked to the bed and stood looking down at her. "How do you feel now?" She stretched like a contented cat. "Rested. Lazy." She reached out with both hands. He took them, helping her to a sitting position. 307 APRIL 1963 Then, remembering, she said, "Davy was in the nursery when I got home this afternoon. We had such a pleasant few moments together. I felt as if we really communicated for the first time." Hope leaped to Dick's eyes. He found her slippers and _ brought them to her. "I wanted to talk to you about that. I wondered if you still thought he was too much of a burden for you... Now, or after the baby comes...." She waited, not quite knowing what he expected her to say. "T had halfway decided that the first good contract I got, we could spend part of the money to send Davy away to a school for mutes, if you want to. 'There's an outstanding one in Texas that specializes in his type of case... If you really want to send him away." She paused in the act of slipping her feet into the slippers. She looked up at her husband, knowing the heartache such a decision would have cost him. "Oh, Dick, I can't deny how often I've wished for that. Sometimes I was sure it would be better for everyone concerned, including Davy and the baby. Now now I know it was just selfishness on my part. A selfish wish to shirk a responsibility that's rightfully mine. Selfishness. If anyone had ever told me I would be selfish concerning the welfare of a child! "I want Davy to have every pcossible chance," she said evenly. "A few wecks ago I would have agreed without a second thought. Now, I want to do what's right and best. He wouldn't be happy so far from 308 all of us. Nor would we be happy with him gone. I couldn't deprive him of the only love and security he knows. Not unless it's necessary. As you said, darling, the last resort. If the doctors advise us to do that... Not unless. Dick, I never fully realized until just now. I've been very selfish, haven't I?" He was uncomfortable. "I understand how you felt." "IT know you tried. Well, this is Davy's home," she said with conviction. "He belongs in this house with his family. If we have to have outside help, we should be thinking in terms of bringing a speech therapist to him, not of sending him away. We haven't given Davy or ourselves much chance. We've been so involved with other things. Remodeling, the business, the baby.... Later, if we're sure we've failed, we'll talk to the doctor about a teacher or a school." He grinned one-sidedly at her. "You've been talking to Granddad." "Yes. He's so wise and good, Dick." He took her into his arms and held her close. "If we're going out wed better be getting ready," he said at last. As she was getting dressed, he said, "I understand you had a few words with Ella today." Her hairbrush stopped in the silk of her honey-hued hair. "I'm sorty,' she said. "We did. I was so tired, I guess I was curt." Her eyes met his in the mirror as he stood in back of her knotting his tie. She turned to help him, and went on, "T didn't use much diplomacy, I'm afraid." "Maybe it's all for the best. Ella means well. She wouldn't do anything to interfere, if she thought she was interfering... Or to hurt us for the world. She's been the only woman for so long, and she's used to running things pretty much her way. It's a sharp slap for a queen bee to suddenly find herself sharing her throne with another queen." "T know. And she's our rock, Dick, the base this family revolves KEEP MY OWN around. We just couldn't get along without her." He nodded. "Maybe she can come to understand that in things pertaining to our private lives, we have to make our own choices frequently without her help. She only wants what she thinks is right. We're having to adjust even now. We should be able to understand that the adjustments have been just as difficult for Ella, too." (To be continued ) On His Way Rose Thomas Graham Proud as a peacock he walks down the street, his head held high. He deigns to smile if he chances to meet a passerby But he never turns to the left nor right; do you suppose He thinks he belongs to the mighty-might? He tilts his nose And purses his lips with a haughty air; He's on his way. It makes no difference if people stare. It's his birthday. But isn't my precious three-year-old cute Out for a walk in his blue-buttoned suit? WITH GRATITUDE ep HANK God, our Heavenly Father, for permitting me to live long enough in this earthly proving ground so that I have developed a more reasonable state of mind, a more studious inclination; a more firm grasp upon the reality of God's existence, and a more sure knowledge that I may, by my own integrity and faithfulness, achieve a place in his eternal home. Thank God for later years. — Clara Horne Park 309 eo ~— p 'y' -~ 7 " Ty i my np ~ oF s@crefary-} treasurer Hulda Parker Hoteial wibmtfest Tor publiodtten i thts department should le sent threweh Mele? Somety presidents 90¢ regninhons covernimg the submittal a | Bey "Pes -" Ti " tive ial ~ lie RAscliieifise bec Ral a "a" ee o, bl LT ut mt tite Petal TP CHC WINE Fer PtinPy LHe, Pe 4 and RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Fresno Stake (California) Relief Society Display at Stake Center Open House, November 12-17, 1962 Viorene E. Wardle, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: "An open house was held during the week of November 12th through 17th in our new Fresno Stake Center. 'Tours were conducted through the center, which also houses the Fresno Third and the Fresno Fifth Wards. The picture shows a display which was set up in the Relief Society room to help the many visitors more fully to understand the Relief Society program. Scores of visitors, nonmembers, as well as members, went through the room, viewing the display, along with hearing a Relief Society sister explain the Relief Society program. We received many interesting comments and reports on this event, and we feel that we have made many more friends for Relief Society." East Phoenix (Arizona), Phoenix Eighteenth Ward Relief Society Illustrates "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan" Left to right: Joanne Buehner, Work Director Counselor; Effie K. Driggs, social science class leader; Irene Rogers, Education Counselor; Mildred Romney, President. Joan A. Corbitt, former president East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, now President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Effie K. Driggs, social science class leader of Phoenix Eighteenth Ward Relief Society and former president, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, used a styrofoam model to emphasize the various points of character of the ideal Relief Society sister. Several cubes were joined into a single unit, representing the Relief Society member living all of the lessons taught during the 1961- 62 season. All of these principles were bound together by a strong band of 'devotion' to the Church and to the mission of motherhood. It was emphasized during the presentation that the Relief Society sister is 'on the pedestal' and that any part of this solid unit which is taken away or ignored creates a void in the development and character of that member. At the end of the presentation each sister was given a folder with an illustration of the figure 'on the pedestal' as a reminder. Also in the brochure were the objectives and highlights of the lesson material throughout the year, emphasizing 'I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say.' " 310 APRIL 1963 East Central States Mission, District Relief Society Officers At Mission-Wide Convention Front row, seated, left to mght, district presidents: Doris Armstrong, Kentucky Central; Matilda Brunson, 'Tennessee Central; Wilma Honaker, Tennessee East. Martha Lassetter, Secretary, East Central States Mission Relief Society; Delilah H. Brown, former president, East Central States Mission Relief Society. District presidents: Kanes Bexfield, West Virginia South; Nyla Morgan, Kentucky West; Althea Dodd, West Virginia North; Mary Baker, Kentucky East. The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and board members from the seven districts, which have sixty-two organized Relief Society groups, and 1,265 members.. Sister Brown reports that these women traveled a total of many hundreds of miles "to share and learn new ways for success in Relief Society. Each one contributed to the program's success. The theme of the convention was 'L. D. S. — let's do something through friendship and fellowship with happy enthusiasm.' " Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Visiting Teacher Convention June 5, 1962 Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "On June 5th, the Big Horn Stake Relief Society held a visiting teacher convention, honoring the wards which had made a record of 100 per cent in visiting teaching, and 100 per cent in Magazine subscriptions for the year 1961. A plaque with the names of the visiting teachers was presented to the wards by Louise Hawley, Education Counselor. A beautiful hand-painted plate, with the names of the Magazine representatives written in gold was presented to the Magazine representative in each ward which achieved 100 per cent or more in subscriptions. The stake Magazine representative, Bettena Graham, made these awards. "An actual experience of Lula Dillon of the Lovell Ward was put into the form of a skit and presented at the convention. This proved to be outstanding. About 300 visiting teachers enjoyed the afternoon. They received inspiration and information regarding their work. Refreshments were served from a beautifully decorated table." Juab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference, December 2, 1962 Stake Relief Society President Blanche Brough stands at the right in the first row; organist Rheta Sperry, and chorister Norma Sherwood stand at the left on the front TOW. Sister Brough reports: ""This was a very satisfying experience for the women participating and provided inspirational music for the conference." 312 APRIL 1963 East Mesa Stake (Arizona), Spanish-American Branch Relief Society Officers Front row, seated, left to rght: Rafaela Lopez, First Counselor; Juana Flores, President; Maria Hernandez, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Paga, social science class leader; Maria de la luz Todd, work meeting leader; Teresa Pratt, literature class leader; Josephine Mortensen, Magazine representative; Graciela Estrada, theology class leader. Officers not in the picture are: Nora Romero, Secretary; Alice Kartchner, organist. Reta M. Reed, President, East Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: "These women are doing excellent Relief Society work, and their accomplishments are many. The members are all very active and enthusiastic. During 1961 the total average attendance exceeded their total enrollment. All meetings are conducted and the lessons given in Spanish. For their closing social, Sister Eva Pagan translated into Spanish, and the members presented the dramatization "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan.' 'This was very inspirational and well received by the large number in attendance. We are very proud of this group." Tongan Mission, Niue District Singing Mothers Present Music October 1962 Front row, seated, left to mght: Nuasa 'Togiaono; Kahumigi Togahai; Tuhemata Tafolua; Fuatino Piuti; Liuvaione Paegotau; Loematama Paegotau; Vineta 'Togahai. Second row, seated, left to right: Janette B. Wyatt, President, Niue District Relief Society; Alama Togahai; Matalanefe Mokanehau; Tufaina 'Tanevesi; Vetetama Lukupa; Mokesilinisa Sani; Vetehemana Togiamua; Sifahega Faneva, Secretary, Alofi Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Mafoufou Hopotoa; Elder James L. Wyatt, President, Niue District; Misianeini Koloni; Foini Faneva, President, Alofi Branch Relief Society; Sifaata Haioti, Secretary, Niue District Relief Society; Mokakolikoli Piuti; Arahemata Paegotau; Miliama Vasu, First Counselor, Alofi Branch Relief Society. LaVera W. Coombs, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports: "None of these sisters has been in the church very long, and I think this is the first time they have had the opportunity of furnishing the singing for the district conference." French Mission, Nantes Branch Bazaar, September 29, 1962 Left to right: Anne Kayser, President, Le Mans District Relief Society; Marcelle Baussay, Secretary, Nantes Branch Relief Society; Jule Germaine, President, Nantes Branch Relief Society; Lucienne Band, Second Counselor, Nantes Branch Relief Society. Lucilla M. Hinckley, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "On the 29th of September, 1962, the Nantes Branch Relief Society held their bazaar. A recreational program was presented, and a sale of cookies, cakes, and candy resulted in raising funds for this branch organization. Of those in attendance, sixty per cent were investigators and friends of the Church." 314 APRIL 1963 Danish Mission Relief Society District Presidencies and Branch Presidencies and Secretaries Meet In Copenhagen, September 29, 1962 Florence B. Thorup, President, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports this mspirational and outstanding meeting of the Relief Society officers: "September 29th and 30th were not only bright, sunny autumn days in Copenhagen, but there was a feeling of excitement and great happiness here. Women from the entire land of Denmark met together for the first time, for two wonderful days filled with activities and instruction that will improve every phase of Relief Society work.... Class leaders were given the opportunity to see a class demonstration of a well-prepared lesson. The secretaries enjoyed the slides and message of 'A Record Shall Be Kept,' which was translated into their own language. At a special meeting for all district and branch officers, the sisters were given the challenge of having a thousand members of the Relief Society by the end of the Relief Society year. This means that our present enrollment of 500 or 520 will, and can be, doubled.... The sisters expressed a desire to do this. "Emphasis was placed on the visiting teaching program, and many wonderful testimonies were given by some of the visiting teachers on the importance of this great work. Many work meeting ideas were given, and an interesting event of the convention was a display of Danish handwork. 'There were many kinds of exquisite lace, needlepoint, and knitting. 'There was a beautiful display of hand-painted china, oil paintings, handmade dolls, and other interesting displays. 'Time was taken from the busy schedule to have a delightful luncheon together. A special song was written for the occasion.... A highlight of the convention was the concert given by the seventy-voice Singing Mothers chorus. 'The hall was filled to capacity, and the songs were rendered in a beautiful and thrilling way.... Our closing session was enjoyed by all the sisters, and counsel was given by the Relief Society presidency: Florence B. Thorup, Sara Dresso, and Inger Rasmussen.... I think one of the greatest benefits from this wonderful experience was the feeling of sisterhood and companionship and love for one another...." 316 In Simple Robes Eva Willes Wangsgaard In simple robes is beauty dressed And often seeks the humblest place n which to hide, while those who quest In glamorous halls for beauty's face ay leave behind her quiet grace. In simple robes is beauty dressed, No oftener in silken case Than slumbering upon the breast In sackcloth garments; yet the best Of living yields to her embrace. In simple robes is beauty dressed. In humble hearts her fingers trace Her lineaments which interlace Where joy and happiness attest, Though filling all the realms of space, In simple robes is beauty dressed. Walk With Stephen Beulah Huish Sadleir He was a little boy Singing to his believing World, in the morn Of his growing years. Tall assurance rippled Through him in the way He held my hand and walked Unmurmuting. His songs Were his own making Until he mimicked the jerky Call of a stranger bird. On to the water's edge. The child's song changed to boats Moving in the rhythm of slow Water on a sunny day. Child of earth, of free design, Yours is the unhampered song. SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES 22 ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen _ -20 7 COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 ont GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin ____ 25 — HEAVENS ARE TELLING —Haydn __. O0 ee.25 _ IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.25 a LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster _ 25::! | | I | I | I | | | | | | | I | | | | | I I | I | | | I | | | | | | ao LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 |! DS 4 OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert _ 20 | J. OPEN OUR EYES! | | I | | I | | I | | |! | | | I! | | I I | | | I | | I | I | | I | l l Macfarlane ------- -25 — STILL, STILL WITH THEE—Madsen_ _ - -.-..--.22 a 23rd PSALM—Schubert _.25 a UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven._.22 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated { | i t | \ | { | { | | I )! Above. \ [) On Approval!! |! | I | \ | | | t | i CL] Charge (J Money Enclosed Name = Address.. City and State 15 E. Ist South / Salt Lake City 11, Utah | MUSIC FOR — a SINGING MOTHERS! Festival and Parade Order From Us By Mail Leaves June 12 ALL ARE SSA. Im °.4 Love One Another.30¢ Northwest, Canadian Rockies, | 9 When Mothers Sing: - ----15¢ Lake Louise & Banff Tour, ete. | -.-.- Lord, Hear Our Prayer 20c | ns oe i God Of All Nature 0 000 30c leaving June 22 | @ Abide With Me 7.20¢ a Such Lovely Things 20¢ i hLmlCO The Silent Seq _ ee eeeeene25¢ Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour | So Little Time -..--.-c-co-cceceesesace25¢ -. Still, Still With Thee __ 22¢ on | | Pe Send Forth Thy Spirit 25¢ =. Teach Me O Lord 25¢ Black Hills Passion Play Tour Use This Ad As Your Order! Leaves August 17 [] Approval [] Cash (J Charge ESTHER JAMES TOURS Name nnn 460 7th Avenue City & State Salt Lake City 3, Utah GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 246 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah rap eg ee GENEALOGICAL Magna RESEARCH PROFESSIONAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCE FOR THE ''DO-IT-YOURSELFER..." SPECIAL GIFT Guidance and Supervision in your FOR A LOVED research to save you time and money ONE FOR THE "OUT-OF-TOWNER..." Consultations by Correspondence to Helps You See Better aid in pedigree analysis, search proLeaves Hands Free To Work cedures, locating records and researchUnfolds so that it can be hung from the neck ers, and evaluation of data and eviand be supported away from the body leavdence. Ing both hands free to do dozens of tedious FOR THE "BUSY " jobs. Small objects become larger.. ~_ Folds up small enough to carry in a lady's 1 will do your research for you purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses FOR THE FAMILY ORGANIZATION Assistance with research, preparation 1. Reading. And distribution of family news let- 2. Needlepoint. Ters and maintaining of mailing lists 3. Sewing. ° 4. Removing slivers Oincent L. Jones 5. Crocheting. 6. Threading needle. Genealogical Research & Consultant: Service Price $4.95 postpaid 143 South Main St. — 801 Tribune Bldg. DESERET BOOK COMPANY ie a 1/3 Block South of Genealogical Society 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah 318 oe All of the numbers for the Relief Society and M. I. A. Are obtainable at BEESLEY Music (o. 70 SO. MAIN EM 4-6518 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Hardman and the Original Cable Pianos Hawaiian Tours June and November, 1963 Mexican Tour in March Orient Tour leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 @: Prai a \A/ nA rairie vVViIn Gilean Douglas I never knew that a wind could be as clean As this wind. Clean as snow That whitens open hill and shaded glen, As rain that washes leaves until they shine, As sun that burns the fetid marsh away, Leaving the scent of fern and meadow hay, Of bride syringa and ascetic pine. ('p The scream of eagle and the lisp of wren Are bright upon this wind, and where I go LBLE My eyes are cleansed of darkness I have seen, D 7 i } _ eseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] ae 319 One Hundred One Mrs. EvizaBetH JANE RussELL Day Ilunter, Utah One Hundred Mrs. FLoRENCE EMMELINE CLARK RITCHIE Ballarat, Victoria Australia Ninety-seven Mrs. Marcar_et E. P. Scirutrr Gorpon Monrovia, California Ninety-six Mrs. Atice Dr La Mare Gowans Tooele, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Saran H. BALLANTYNE Ogden, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Ruopa Haes TANNER Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. EvizABETH TABITHA STEVENS BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Exviza Linrorp DENIo Bell Gardens, California Ninety-one Mrs. JonANNnai LUNDGREEN CHRISTENSEN Union, Utah Mrs. Mary L. Farnry BELLER Ogden, Utah Mrs. Etruetyn T. LINpsEy Long Beach, California Mrs. Ex1za Ann NICHOLS JACKSON Thornton, Idaho Mrs. Ciara Eppy Martin Menan, Idaho Ninety Mrs. MINNIE ELLEN BEDELL BANTA Sacramento, California Mrs. Mary Brocxsank Nortu Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CrivittaA WincEeT MAGLEBY Monroe, Utah Mrs. Rutu E.. MAxweE tt Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. AMANDA Matuitp GARNS MEaApDows American Falls, Idaho Mrs. Curistina LinpsAY DUKE Heber, Utah Open until Midnight — _ Closed Sundays. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" rove, 7TMTM" Oe Cream is the Industry's Supreme a OUR ONLY STORE — 850 East 21st South Large groups please make reservations Two Great Books on the Life of the ee and his Brother. | HYRUM SMITH, PATRIARCH | by Pearson H. Corbett. New insight into the life _of the brother of the Prophet. A stirring account of true brotherly love and loyalty. $3.95 JOSEPH SMITH, THE MAN & THE SEER by Hyrum L. Andrus. A masterful analysis of Joseph Smith and his mission as a prophet of the Living God. Essential reading for every Latter-day Saint. $2.50 T Deseret Be Book | k COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah These and other inspirational church books at Deseret Book stores everywhere. Gentlemen: Please find enclosed check money order. I have { \ \ an account, please charge. Amount enclosed $ for | encircled books: | | | Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. \ Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah How much life insurance is enough. To keep your future —_ - bright with promise: Ask your Beneficial Man — his business is giving the RIGHT answers. Nor teReR aEee BENEFICIAL LIFE racsanee Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. ° Salt Lake City, Utah Over 580 million dollars of life insurance in force.
