FEBRUARY 1963 DMs > >) > N tH 2 rr} The Wind in the Mallar Alice Morrey Bailey The wind and the water carve the sculptures of the world, And the great rock barriers where their force is hurled Are chiseled into statues by the grinding storms And the continents are molded into shapes and forms. The wind is the mallet, and the wave is the tool — From massive sea or breeze-touched pool The wind makes the waves and their destiny, Their length and fetch and velocity, To model a sandbar, grain on grain, Or block with the blows of a hurricane. The seaward ebb and the shoreward flow Polish the monoliths down below, And they hump their backs and seem to ride On ponderous surf-boards against the tide, And all of the coastlines which frame the land Are the art of a mighty Sculptor's hand. The Cover: Jao Valley, Island of Maui, Hawaii Transparency submitted by Louise F. Brooks Frontispiece: Haystack Rock on the Oregon Coast Photograph by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press y, POM I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. The lessons are beautiful and inspiring, and I could not put the August issue down until I had read the article on Jerusalem, by Christine H. Robinson. And, although I should have been housekeeping, I stopped to enjoy the lovely color plates (by Dr. O. Preston Robinson), so beautifully reproduced. —Mrs. Gene Hendon Bnghton, England We were so thrilled with the poem sequence "'Portrait of Freedom" (by Alberta [Iuish Christensen) in the September Relief Society Magazine, that we used this sequence as the principal component of our opening social presentation. One of our sisters prepared an introduction to each of our phases of lesson work, using one of the poems in the sequence as a basis for each. All were beautifully blended together with appropriate songs by the Singing Mothers. It was so well done that we were invited to present it in a sacrament meeting as a tribute to Veterans' Day. It made a thrilling and very appropriate service which everyone enjoyed tremendously. Thank you for printing these inspiring poems which Sister Christensen so masterfully created. —Beulah Isom Reseda, California I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, but appreciate it more than ever now that I am so far from home, serving on a mission here in New York. We use the Magazine as a gift for new members and investigators. So it is a missionary. I have tried many of the delicious recipes and homemaking ideas and I enjoy every part of the Magazine. I am grateful to the Logan, Utah, Eighth Ward Relief Society for sending the Magazine to me. —Lila B. Daynes Lockport, New York 82 Mar and Sw [ was delighted when my November Magazine came to see a story by my sister Helen C. Warr ('"The Little Blue Bag'), It is an excellent story. Helen is presently serving aS a mussionary in Scotland. I would like to express my appreciation to Mrs. Olive Moore of Melbourne, Australia, who took time to write from halfway around the world to express appreciation for my article on the Bancroft flood in the July issue of the Magazine. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Thanks for all the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine. 1 am sure the Magazine is a great help to all who read it — especially the pictures and lessons and poems. We are Baptist. It is only a small chapel, but nearly full. Again, I thank you for the Magazine. —Mary Elizabeth Boddy Hoole, England Each new issue of the Magazine is a joy to receive and read. The added color makes it so inviting to open and read from cover to cover. We, the older members of the Society, have our golden years of retirement enriched by being able to read and use the Magazine and make it a part of everyday living. —Lena B. Shaw Lawndale, California. One day my mother encouraged me to. Start reading The Relief Society Magazine. Before I had read it, I thought it was just a Magazine for grownups. Now I have discovered that mother has had her Magazines bound every year since 1950. I am into my fifth 'volume now. And I am enjoying the stories and poems verv much. When I am older, I am going to be a Relicf Socicty sister, too. —Deborah Kezerian Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 

VOL. 50 Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of NO. 2 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES Charity, the Heart of Relief Society.2.0.0 -..-..---essecteseecceeeeeceeenseccneeesenernenseecenneneeessMarion G. Romney 84 Bronson Alcott — the Father of 'Little Women", oo.. O cececcecceccceeeeneeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeneeeLaurel Ulrich 96 Relief Society Supports Home Nursing - 0..2 - -------c-c-cececececeeeeeseneeeeveneceeeesceceeseeseeceueueeNellie F. Kujala 105 FICTION The Home — Second Prize Story 22 cece cencceneeenneeese cece seeeeneeeceeeeeceeeeesceneeteeeesChristie Lund Coles 89 The New Pioneers of Wales -o 0 ccccecccconceceecencoceceeceececceeceecescssecccsnncsesecseeecocesneceesneceeccseeceeseeeessElena Neale 105 Keep My Own — Chapter 2 oooe.. Ceccececccccccceecececensesssesessnnensecceesoceseeeeseecenereceocenteeeeeeesaneecaceees Kit Linford 114 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 8 (Conclusion) -2 2-:: cecsceeeceecceeeeeeeeseeeeeseeeeresShirley Thulin 124 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far oooo.. C ccccecccceseeceeneeee a "gensuneou opnsleneneesl ea 82 Woman's Sphere onion ne occ eeeccceeceeceecceeeceeeceseceeceeseceesceseensaseecsnsareesessesteccsseeesensecsensnesnsneesRamona W. Cannon 101] Editorial: The Modern Homemaker 20oo..2 cce-cesescceccceeeeceeeeeceeeceececeenecencsenecseeseeseeseeeLouise W. Madsen 102 Notes To the Field: Talking Book Records of Relief Society Lessons Available for the Sightless " i i i nnn TT 104 Award Subscriptions Presented in April oo ceccecc ccs eececeeececeeeeeccnceceneesnecenecsneenecenececeeeeneeecees 104 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 0.00..0..0.00020ccccccceeseeeeesecceeeeeeeeeceeeeceeeeeeeHulda Parker 130 Birthday Congratulations Se a a 160 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Alone With Beauty occ cece cccccseeccecececceccecceececcecceecececessrseeseneeesecsensnnrennsnsereecseceneneeecerenseceeAlice R. Rich 108 Indoor Gardens for Your Child oo c.. CccesecccoseccesceececsesescecceueceececcecceneeceeceecseseseavsesenenaeececeeeeHelen B. Morris 111 Glamorize Your Party Menus With Tarts 0..-. Ccccc: ccccossceccecessecsececeesesecescecsesecenanseceesceseeeesRuby K. Smith 120 Hazel L. Giles Collects Pioneer Relics oo. Ccc. C. Ccceccccssceseceseenececesensesucesnsceseceecesstenesesenencosesecensesennenecerereecseecees 126 LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology — Give Heed to Warnings and Trifle Not with Sacred Things: a, Roy W. Doxey 137 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Inasmuch As They Are Faithful."' OI one cnsn on ven cnnnsn sas nenedenencaecana-nenseesaveseneneneees cot Christine H. Robinson 143 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Virginia F. Cutler 145 Literature — The Challenge of Walt Whitman in. DeautddiiawidisensBriant S. Jacobs 147 Social Science — Summary 2oo.. Ee. Eeeccceececececeeeeeeeeeeeee eeevenereveay ieee eeeAriel S. Ballif 154 POETRY The Wind Is the Mallet — Frontispiece -. O scecccccessssececceseecseceoceseceaseceessesccveeesAlice Morrey Bailey 81 Woman With Birds, by Lael W. Hill, 95; Snow, Girls, and a Watcher, by Ida Elaine James, 99; For My Husband, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 100; Springtime Snow, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 104; Day of the Spelling Match, by Maude Rubin, 109; For Tomorrow, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 110; Little Lights, by Hannah C. Ashby, 142; The Foolish Giants, by Margery S. Stewart, 159; Home, by Catherine B. Bowles, 160. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

83 CHARITY The Heart of Relief Society Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Departmental Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 4, 1962! Appreciate very much the invitation to speak to you today. In their gracious invitation, your General Presidency said the welfare work is to be presented in this meeting. 'They suggested, however, that my remarks not be confined to your part in the Church Welfare Program only but that they deal also with the broad scope of Relief Society ministration as declared by the Prophet Joseph when he said, "'this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads" (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 607). This is the heart of Relief Society work. It seems to me that the Prophet Joseph did make it abundantly clear that administering to the physical and spiritual needs of people is the real heart of Relief Society work. This is a charitable society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation im which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 605). Defining the area in which the sisters were to function, however, he said: Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your 84 own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society (History of the Church, Vol. IV, page 607). As you have so often been reminded, the Relief Society was organized under the direction of the Priesthood — not as a restriction, but as an added endowment. As President Clark said, in Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1940: The unique qualification of priesthood blessing and promise that is yours, that sets you apart from all other organizations, and that gives you a power and authority that no other women's organization in the world possesses, brings with it certain duties and responsibilities which determine and fix your work, which... Must follow the pattern of the labors of Jesus, relieving human woe, and ministering to spiritual wants. That, it seems to me, is the very heart of your work — "relieving human woe and ministering to spiritual wants." President Clark continues: Now when the Prophet set up the Relief Societies, the revelations regarding the bishops and their duties had already been given. His instructions to the Relief Society must be read in the light of these instructions. The bishop is charged by the Lord with the obligation of caring for the poor. No one else has ever been so charged. However, the Relief Society has an important relationship to the care of the poor, because the Prophet said that the Society's. Object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.. With the resources they will have at their command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. Evidently in the beginning the Relief Society sisters used their own funds to supply the wants of the needy. They were, however, to receive their instructions through the order of the Priesthood. This they have always done. This is the order in our present day Welfare work. The methods of providing the necessities have changed, as you well know. But much is still required of the Relief Society and much _ has been given. Volumes could be written on what has been done by the sisters of the Church by way of supplying clothing, preservation of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor. That labor has been appreciated. 'The Church Welfare Plan could scarcely have been carried forward without it. I believe you have been grateful for your assignments, for you have done even more than has been required. Your work meetings have been full of spirit and joy because you knew that the things you were making were really needed. I have here a report from the Ammon Stake in Idaho, which illustrates the co-operation of Relief Society and Priesthood. During CHARITY, THE HEART OF RELIEF SOCIETY their February stake conference, warm rains caused the rising of streams everywhere. By the time the Sunday morning session was ended, main roads were flooded. "By four o'clock we were really aang the report says. ""... Men were running, not walking, as they would help each other... It was neighbor helping neighbor...." By eight-thirty p. M., bishops had their men organized and were ready to help evacuate families to the school gymnasium. But when the first families were taken there the bishops did not have the heart to leave them in the big, cold gym with just tumbling mats spread out on the floor. So they made arrangements with Church members who were not flooded to take them into their homes. Many had called us and offered their homes. Here we see the spirit of the heart of Welfare and Relief Society at work. The next morning help began arriving from neighboring stakes. The President... Of the South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society had her women organized to help with [not distribution of Welfare supplies, which was done by the Preisthood, but with what only women could see as needs] washing, ironing, and baby tending. Of course, hot meals were prepared for the cold, wet workers. 'The details are most interesting. A nursery was set up where 120 children were fed and cared for by women and girls working in shifts. 'The use of two large laundromats was donated for use from nine P. M. Until morning. The work brought unexpected blessings. The sharing of each oth- 85 FEBRUARY 1963 ers burdens brought love of each other. "Indeed," says the report, "we feel like brothers and sisters.... We are all so grateful for our blessings, and especially for our Church, which makes a disaster in Zion a blessing" ("Disaster in Zion — A Flood in Ammon Stake — February 11, 1962,' report by President Cecil E. Hart, chairman of the Eastern Idaho Church Welfare Region). You see, sisters, we do not engage in charity as a business. It is the natural expression of our love for one another. It should be remembered, however, that caring for the physical needs of people is only one, and not perhaps the most important, of Relief Society's manifold charitable duties and obligations; for, as the Prophet said, ""The Relief Society ls not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'To the accomplishment of this objective the Prophet gave specific instructions, one of which was "to purge out iniquity." To be prepared to carry forward their great work, the women were to first purify themselves. He warned them to beware of self-righteousness. "Be limited," he said "in the estimate of your own virtues and not think yourselves more righteous than others. You must enlarge your souls towards each other." He further reminded them that: As females possess fine feelings and sensitiveness, they are also subject to overmuch zeal, which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be ngid in a religious capacity.... [ have one request to make of the President and members of the society, that you search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member — hold your tongues about things of no moment — a little tale will set the world on 86 fire. I do not want to cloak iniquity — all things contrary to the will of God, should be cast from us, but don't do more hurt than good, with your tongues — be pure in heart (History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 19-20). In a previous speech, he had said, concerning loyalty to husbands: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (History of the Church, Vol. IV, pp. 606-7). Surely that is true, not only as to your husbands but as to all members of your household. You need to do more for your children than just supply their physical wants. Certainly, as indicated by statistics concerning juvenile delinquency and crime, they need security and guidance. They need encouragement and appreciation. Someone has said that there are at least three things parents can do for their children — Stop, Look, and Listen; and three more that will go a long ways towards comforting them in their problems are Praise, Encouragement, and Expression of Confidence. Sisters, guard the dignity of the members of your own families. We strive to do that in Welfare; you do it in your homes. I am reminded of an article by Brother Wendell Ashton in The Instructor of August 1962. He tells about twelve young men who met to discuss "The College Man — His Attitudes." One of the collegians said the thing he wanted most out of life was to be appreciated. "That's more important to me," he said, "than making a barrelful of money." Brother Ashton continued, "There is much in every man's life to appreciate. And there is nothing on this earth that deserves and desires appreciation more than a human soul" (WENDELL J. AsHTON, "To Be Appreciated," The Instructor, August 1962, outside back cover). And let me add, no soul desires and deserves appreciation more than your own family, your intimate acquaintances, and your neighbors, old or young, rich or poor. It is the duty of Relief Society members and all Church members to look to and purify themselves, to love and to care for, encourage and appreciate the members of their own household, and to extend that love to their neighbors. This is an area in which we get into a sphere of action where no - bishop can tell us just what to do. No person other than ourselves can solve our individual problems or direct our specific actions because conditions change and vary. However, principles governing character building and spiritual growth do not change. They persist eternally. We must act on those principles if we would have joy in performing our duty. This is the area where we act, not as an organization, but as members of the Relief Society. We act according to the principle pronounced by the Lord in the 58th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants where he said:. It is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a CHARITY, THE HEART OF RELIEF SOCIETY slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (D & C 58: 26-28). Jesus said, "... Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Matthew 5:41). Someone has spoken of this work done on one's own initiative as follows: The second mile, the mile of one's own choosing, assures the victory. The second mile changes acquaintance into a friend, affection into love, quarrel into reconciliation, resentment into forgiveness, duty into joy, failure into success, existence into gracious living, prejudice into understanding, belief into faith (Nancy M. ArmsTRONG, "The Second Mile,' The Relief Society Magazine, February 1962, page 97). An editorial in the Deseret News of October 2, 1962 said: Filling their most historic and important function, Relief Society women made 357,000 visits to the sick and homebound, spent 30,000 days nursing the sick, gave 400,000 hours of other compassionate service — doing housework for incapacitated mothers, taking food to bereaved families, caring for children, and helping unfortunate families in many other ways. And so it goes; on every front the compassionate, efficient, charming women of the Relief Society go about their divinely given job of doing good, and almost countless are the husbands and children whose lives are richer and happier because of what the woman of the house brings home from Relief Society. I know you do much beyond the actual call of duty to bring comfort to the aged, the lonely, the homebound, and the ill. I recently had 87 FEBRUARY 1963 a sister in the hospital seriously afflicted. I asked her if she was able to read and get comfort from the scriptures. She answered that she could read very little, but that she had a friend who came almost every day to read to her. I am sure the Lord will heap blessings upon the head of that friend for her kindness. I am told that a Primary teacher who lost her husband was forced to go to work at her profession to maintain her family. Her fellow teachers took turns in caring for her preschool child in their own homes. These are but samples of the kind of love that lies at the heart of Relief Society and its members. While the Prophet awaited martyrdom in Carthage he requested Elder Taylor to repeat his singing of the song, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief," the lines of which I think fairly breathe in rhythm with the heart of Relief Society. 1 A poor wayfaring Man of gricf Hath often crossed me on my way, Who sued so humbly for relief That I could never answer, Nay. I had not power to ask his name, Whereto he went, or whence he came; Yet there was something in his eye That won my love; I knew not why. 2) Once, when my scanty meal was spread, He entered, not a word he spake; Just perishing for want of bread, I gave him all; he blessed it, brake, And ate, but gave me part again, Mine was an angel's portion then, For while I fed with eager haste, The crust was manna to my taste. 3 I spied him where a fountain burst Clear from the rock; his strength was gone; 88 The heedless water mocked his thirst; He heard it, saw it, hurrying on. I ran and raised the sufferer up; Thrice from the stream he drained my cup, Dipped and returned it running o'er; I drank and never thirsted more. 4 "Twas night; the floods were out; It blew a winter hurricane aloof; I heard his voice abroad and flew To bid him welcome to my roof. I warmed and clothed and cheered my guest And laid him on my couch to rest, Then made the earth my bed, and seemed In Eden's garden while I dreamed. 5 Stript, wounded, beaten nigh to death, I found him by the highway side; I roused his pulse, brought back his breath, Revived his spirit, and supplied Wine, oil, refreshment, he was healed; I had myself a wound concealed, But from that hour forgot the smart, And peace bound up my broken heart. 6 In prison I saw him next, Condemned to meet a traitor's doom at morn; The tide of lying tongues I stemmed, And honored him 'mid shame and scorn. My friendship's utmost zeal to try, IIe asked if I for him would die; The flesh was weak; my blood ran chill; But the free spirit cried, "I willl" 7 Then in a moment to my view The stranger started from disguise; The tokens in his hands I knew; The Savior stood before mine eyes. IIc spake, and my poor name he named, "Of mc thou hast not been ashamed: These deeds shall thy memorial be, Fear not, thou didst them unto me." (L. D. S. Hymns, No. 153) That the Lord will enable us to obtain and act upon the spirit of the heart of Relief Society, I humbly pray. Secon qd Prize-Winning Story 0 Relief Society Annual Short Story Contest WAI: Christie Lund Coles an unnaturally field of daffodils. N you firs by Wordsworth. Remem t look at her she spoke. When het mother ans Her son Gregory scious bidding, the | COLES CHRISTIE LUND _ clipped, at that INDY cried in pright voice, "Look It reminds t taught us, ber?" But mother as wered, her 'Yes, I re cleared his few months ag? She "Hor land's tout." Now, did it And he indeed remember ines of the being, through her FEBRUARY 1963 Well, she would have plenty of solitude now. Plenty. She. Still wanted to pinch herself to be sure it was true. Her own children whom she had reared and loved, and nursed: Cindy through several bouts of vicious rheumatic fever — before they had penicillin, or anything else to lower the fever or protect the heart — which had left her heart damaged. 'There had been icebags on it day and might for weeks. 'The neighbors had come in, taking turns at night. But she never missed a cry, a low moan of pain. That was her job. Just as it had been her job to take Gregory alone on the train to a strange city for a horrible mastoid operation. He was under sedation all the way. And, oh, the nightmare at the big, busy hospital. But, Father had to stay at the store. She wasn't sorry for herself. She had said often that mothers only did what their mothers had done for them, and what their children would do for their children. It was a pattern. A sort of hard pattern, but vou learned to put the pieces together. Hat is, most of them. But this particular piece was one which she didn't want to put into place, she didn't want to believe it was possible she wouldn't be seeing these two, wouldn't hear the grandchildren say, "Hi, Grandma," or caress the great-grandchildren. Gregory was trying to make talk. He said, "You know, I met Jim Styles down town the other day. You know, the fellow who used to work for Father." ID he think she was daft or something, that she couldn't 90 She "He lives in a He does what He comes down town remember the hired help? Nodded. He said, home, says it's okay. He pleases. Every day." "What does he come down town everv day for?" his mother asked, crisply, and Gregory flushed before he said, "Well, he walks around, sees the sights." "Of course, he hasn't any family. No children to look after him." She was remembering the stooped, pathetic little man, and the words came out before she gave them much consideration. She could feel their faces set. And she unrolled the crochet-edged handkerchief in her crooked fingers. She wasn't going to beg them to keep her. No, siree. 'This whole thing had got her dander up. And they knew it. That's why they couldn't look her in the face, neither one of them. But she wasn't going to weep about it. As they told her, she would have to be "sensible" about it. She was getting old. She had to have special care. Nonsense. She wasn't like some doddering old ladies who had to have canes, and be helped all over. Of course, she had occasional dizzy spells, and once she had fallen, getting up in the night. But a young person could have done that. She felt as spry as she ever did. Well, most of the time, anyway. She stared straight ahead, and she was conscious that each of her children (her children who had come to mean the length and breadth of life to her for so long) was looking out of the windows, hesitant to speak. Finally, Gregory said, defensive- ly, "You know, Mother, that Kate isn't well. She's about ready to go down." "Women go down easy nowadays," his mother murmured, so softly that he didn't hear, and when he asked her what she said, she answered, "Nothing. Just nothing." But Cindy went on trying again to make her mother understand that which was not quite understandable. She said, "You know, Stan has been planning to take the girls to Europe for so long. They would just die if they didn't get to go this year. All the other girls are going. I wouldn't think of leaving you in that house alone with just the neighbors to take care of you... And Gregory looking in. You should be glad we want to take care of you, want you to have a good place to stay. And this is the best." "You mean this 'Manor House'?" "Yes, you can 'see it up there on the hill. Look at the beautiful grounds." "Looks just like any other institution to me. Who, in tarnation, thought to call these places Homes?" EITHER child answered, and the realization went about in her mind: It was sacrilege to take the name of the most intimate, the most personal of all places on earth and tack it on to places of formality and regimentation. As they drew nearer to the place, she said, trying to keep her voice firm and crisp, "Well, Pll go. But I don't feel right about it. I've still got some pride left." Her voice quivered foolishly and the nervous tears filled her eyes. 'They seemed forever on the surface THE HOME lately, just as they used to be in her own dear grandmother's when she was old. She had felt ashamed when she saw them, she felt ashamed of her own. Gregory sighed. Cindy wiped her nose, saying, "Maybe when we come back, we can work out something. But, for the time being, please try to be happy here." They had stopped, and Greg, the Third, had climbed out of the front seat and come around to open the door for them. 'The back of his neck was red, and his eyes looked funny as he said, "If they aren't good to you, Grandma, you just holler" "And I suppose you'll come running?" she questioned, pinching his ear lobe as she had done since he was knee-high to a grasshopper. "Sure will." "You just drive a little bit slower. And come to see me sometimes." "Sometimes." The word had such horrible overtones, as though she was going to be here forever. Days weeks months. Maybe even years. She found herself leaning against the large, creamcolored car. Cindy noticed and asked, quickly, "Are you all right? You aren't sick, are you? Now, if you are, we'll take you right home." Home? Home? She didn't have any home. She straightened up. "T'm fine," and seeing her daughter's long, slender fingers quiver ever so slightly, she managed to say, "this is nice. Look at that nice veranda. And they all seem jolly." Cindy glanced at her quickly, trying to determine if the words were sarcasm or not, then took her arm, 91 FEBRUARY 1963 as they started into the red brick building, with only one step to the porch (nice for decrepit people). As they walked into the large, cool lobby, she thought of the homes she had had in the past: her father's stately home in England which she had left when she was only twenty to come to America, to marry Gregory, to move to a western frontier town where her home had been little more than a cabin for years — a cabin; a cabin with no facilities, with hard work inside and out. But she had had Gregory and the children and happiness, though she carried the look in her parents' eyes until this moment, and would forever. OW it must have hurt them to have her leave, so young, so inexperienced. She knew now, more than ever, how it was to have a child desert her. Still, she had been fortunate to have them so long, growing up in her own big house, running up and down the stairs, shouting in the yard with its swings, hammock, garden. After their father had died, they had wanted her to move in with them; but she had rented a small apartment near them, and though she hadn't liked it too well, it was home. She had come to be used to it. Most of her things were there, at least she had had those. What would she have here? A few clothes, one or two favorite pictures, some trifles. But what did she need, really? Nevertheless, she didn't like it. She didn't like the fact that her children were doing it to her. How could their feelings for her be so different from her feelings for them? 92 Even as the thought ached within her, she defended them. It wasn't entirely their choice. Hadn't Cindy taken her in last year after her fall? Hadn't she insisted that she have the sunny, east guest room? She had liked it there, even though Cindy's husband was a little childish in his possessiveness. She knew he had influenced the decision to put her here. Just as Kate and the children's needs had influenced Gregory. She had wanted to pay at Cindy's but they wouldn't hear of it. She would be paying most of her own way here. 'That was good. An attendant, neat and pretty, met them. "You're Mrs. Masters, aren't you? We're so happy to have you with us. We hope you'll be happy here." "Oh, Til get along," she answered, "but don't put me in with any real old women." 'The attendant smiled, but Lucinda managed a little scowl in return. Well, what if she were eighty-three? 'That didn't make her a doddering old invalid, did it? "You share the bath with one other woman, and she is delightful. She writes poetry." Lucinda felt her ears literally perk up. Poetry. Hmm. Jingles, probably. She would no doubt bore her to death reading them to her. Soon they were passing an open door as they moved down the hall. A neat, gray-haired woman sat in a wicker rocker, reading. Lucinda strained hard to see the title of the book, but, she couldn't quite make it out. Cindy, noticing, said, "She is reading Robert Burns." The nurse nodded, "She's the one." UCINDA shrugged, pretending indifference, though Burns was one of her favorites, that is, if he was read properly. And, she was glad to say, she knew how. Hadn't her father been one-half Scotch? But now, they were pausing beside the locked door. The attendant was lifting a key from a bunch that hung from her waist, was getting ready to open the door. This was it. The children would be leaving. She would be here alone. She felt sick, and her anger and incomprehension came over her again so strongly that she could hardly bear to have them touch her as they each did as she went across the threshold. The nurse opened the window and a soft breeze moved the cretonne drapes. 'The scent of violets moved in softly on the wind's breath. She thought it was coming from outside, but as she moved in and got her "room eyes," she saw that the fragrance came from a small glass basketful placed on the dresser. She looked down on it. And suddenly she was back in England, preparing to leave. She was seeing another small basket filled with violets. It was one of the last things her mother had given her. Cindy, she was sure, had remembered the story and had sent them here. But, having heard the story, having known the long years of regret, how could she bring anything near it to herself. She lifted her eves and saw on the other side of the dresser, a lovely cyclamen plant, and on a small table, a bouquet of talisman roses. 'They always had been her THE HOME favorite, and they knew it. They were trying to soften her up. But she felt brittle inside. 'Teary, perhaps, but brittle. The attendant had left without her so much as knowing it. The three of them were alone in the sunny room. (Gregory Third had pretended to have something to do with the car.) Lucinda removed her small, veiled hat. She managed to say, "These are very pretty," because she knew they were waiting to hear the words. When neither of them spoke, she went on, "Cyclamen, it sounds like the taste of peppermint on the tongue. You know these are my favorites."" Her fingers touched the roses as she spoke. Gull she couldn't bring herself to look at them. And she knew that they couldn't quite look at her. They were talking, saying how nice the room was, asking if she would like to ie down. She refused. Then, they were saying thev had better go as it was dinner time. She closed her mind quickly against the dinner table at her daughter's and her son's, against the memory of the children. She nodded, and thev hesitated, waiting for her to speak, to make some move toward them. Rather slowly, resolutely, she lifted her eyes to look at them. Standing in the late afternoon sunlight, she looked upon them and saw them in the innocence of childhood, good and gentle, weeping over a kitten's dying, a dog lost; bringing her dandelions, vowing they would never love anyone as they loved her. She saw them when they had done something naughty and had been 93 FEBRUARY 1963 found out, regret in their eyes and a begging to be forgiven and loved again in spite of it. Again she saw herself standing before her mother and father, saying goodbye, saying some things had to be, felt her own pain, again. She saw the pain in their eyes like a sharp knife within her. She supposed they were nght, as she had been. 'Their children came first, their lives. Even so, she couldn't help looking ahead, seeing the time when their children — in spite of the tnps to Europe, the ballet lessons, lovely clothes — might do and say the same thing to them. Life is a pattern. It all comes back. And her only real sorrow now was for them, and their regret. So now, she must lessen it. She said, "You know [I've been moved about quite a lot in my time. I adjust to change just fine. You know that." They still waited, unbelieving, unsure. Until, finally, she touched the check of one and then the other with her foolish, crooked finger. Suddenly, they seemed to have changed verv little. They were still just children, her children. She smiled at them, loving them, forgiving them just as she had done so many times before. CINDY leaned forward, kissed her. Not on the cheek as she had done so often lately, but on the mouth. The kiss was followed by a quick breath and a sound that could have been a sob. Then, Gregory kissed her, and his mouth was soft and tender as his father's had becn a long time ago. Each smiled, touched her. Gregory said huskily, "Now, re- 94 member, if there is anything you need or want, just let us know." Cindy nodded, "Oh, yes. Anything... Anything you need." Lucinda put her parchment thin hand to her mouth to stop its sudden, weak trembling (and she despised weakness), then said softly, "Yes, and if you ever NEED ME you will know where to find me." She turned so that she couldn't see them go through the door, couldn't hear it close. But, it didn't close. Instead, suddenly, she felt her daughter's arms about her and her voice, crying, "Oh, I need you now. I need you now. I couldn't bear to leave you here. You're going home." Gregory was smiling, but there were tears in his eyes, and his strong chin trembled. Lucinda lifted her head, swallowed, then asked lightly, "You mean I won't get to hear my neighbor recite Bobbie Burns?" "Not unless you do it now," Cindy said, seizing the flowers, "and give her these." The girl went to hand her the flowers. But her mother stopped her, saying, "No. You've made these arrangements now. I'll stay here at least while you go to Europe. After that, we'll see." "If you're sure you don't mind, we'll take you home the very first day we're back. We do want you." Gregory cleared his throat. "So do we. Kate will feel better soon." Lucinda put a hand on each of them, saying, "Run along now. ['m going to rock here a few minutes. Then Ill freshen up for dinner." She smiled at them. And they returned the smile. Christie Lund Coles was born m Salina, Utah. A daughter of Christian N. And Ceeelia Peterson Lund. She marred Edgar Elroy Coles, and they have a marned daughter and three grandehildren. Tfer poetry has been widely publshed since she was a student in high school. Ter work has appeared m all the Church magazines, and has been featured in many publications of matroual and foraign circulation. Mrs. Coles has won many State and National poetry and short story contests. She won the first prize in the Pliza R. Snow Pocm Contest in 1943, second prize in 1944, and frst prize in 1956. She won the second prize in the Rehef Society Short Story Contest m 1943. 'The head hbrarian at the University of Kentucky recently requested a poem written by Mrs. Coles in her own handwriting for an exhibition of modern pocts. She has published two volumes of her poetry and is represented in many anthologies. Mrs. Coles is now a resident of Provo, Utah, where she is associated with several writers' organizations and is active in community and Church work. Woman With Birds Lael W. Hill WN With twittering small words They tell of her as ''friend'"" — Who feeds and shelters birds: \ No jay too brash to tend, \ No slum-born sparrow too slight. Ay Lp All wintered birds descend In by-the-ways of flight; ff In hungering and cold They flutter, they alight. She coaxes them, Be bold! She spreads the banquet crumbs, The suet richly doled. To shelf, to sill, there comes The motley feathered crowd, Partaking as of plums; Till having feasted, proud And preeningly in rows, They chirp their thank-yous, loud With love, through wind and snows, Whatever way she goes. 95 BRONSON ALCOTT Laurel Ulrich ESS famous than beans, but almost as common, is a Boston pleasure known as "'literary ghost-hunting." So pervaded with history is the city and the country around it that even the most rational soul can be forgiven if, once inside Salem's "House of Seven Gables," he sees the gray spirits of Hawthorne's ancestors hiding in a secret stairway, or if, stepping into the Longfellow house in Cambridge, he half sees "grave Alice" and "laughing Allegra" poised on the stair-landing above him. For the childhood lover of Little Women, the ghosts are nowhere more abundant than in "Orchard House" in Concord. Here are Amy's plaster cast of her foot, Beth's melodion, and the dining room where the girls staged Jo's plays. "Where is Jo's attic?" asked a woman near me on a tour of the house. "Not in this house," said the guide. "We must remember that the girls were grown when they moved here; most of the things Louisa Mav wrote about occurred elsewhere." "Oh, my!" the woman confided. "She has destroyed a dream. I almost thought I would find them here just as in the story." Then, looking at a broadside posted above 96 the Father of "Little Women" an exhibit of Louisa May's manuscripts, she said: "Ha, making money on his daughter's name!' TRANSCENDENTAL CONVERSATION BY BRONSON ALCOTT said the bulletin. Then in larger letters: FATHER OF LOUISA MAY ALCOTT. How few of us, I thought, know Bronson Alcott as anything but the financially unsuccessful and often absent "Father" of Little Women. From my study of American literature I knew him as the Transcendental dreamer, the friend of Emerson and Thoreau, who attempted — and failed — to establish a communal Eden in America. I was prepared to sympathize with an idealist, a thinker who suddenly finds his most difficult child famous as a writer of sentimental novels and children's stories. How would he feel to find that the house he lovingly restored, the house Louisa May avoided living in when she could, was called on the sign outside: "Orchard House, Home of Louisa May Alcott'? Bronson Alcott, Transcendental Curiosity, had been banished to the barn-like "Concord School of Philosophy" out back. If his ghost is to be found, I thought, it won't be here. Perhaps at Fruitlands.... N a_ beautiful autumn _§afternoon, we drove the thirty miles BRONSON ALCOTT — THE FATHER OF aan vist: ed caghsl ee ee "aie: be ates Bie "LITTLE WOMEN" a a ae ar Center of Bronson Alcott's 'Transcendental Community west of Boston to the quiet little village of Harvard, Massachusetts. Grouped on Prospect Hill, west of the village, with a Shaker house, an Indian museum, and an_ early American painting collection, is the restored Fruitlands, the site, in 1843, of Alcott's experiment in communal living. For seven months this home housed the Alcott family; Charles Lane, an English idealist-stockbroker, who financed the experiment; and a collection of 'Transcendentalists and "seekers," who sought to simplify material life, to bring about spiritual renewal through vegetarianism, meditation, and agriculture. There is little to remind one, walking across the broad lawn to the house, that he is not about to visit a tranquil, but occupied eighteenthcentury farmhouse. A low porch along one wing of the red house is framed with vines and_ potted geraniums. An old hoe and some crude wooden implements strange to us stand neatly against the wall. On one side of the house are the barn and a grape arbor, delightfully shadowy and cool and secret. On the other, speckled red and yellow apples float in the well. A blanket of rough homespun is clipped to the line with the long, handcarved 97 FEBRUARY 1963 clothespegs of a hundred years ago. Across the fence are clumps of hay, drying on weathered, wooden poles. Inside, are the faded tablecloths, maple chests, the broad fireplaces of the eighteenth century. 'There is much here, too, of Bronson Alcott— volumes of books in faded, velvety colors, a bust of Socrates, letters from Emerson and from George Ripley of Brook Farm, copies of the Transcendental periodical Dial, some of Thoreau's Journals. Framed on walls throughout the first floor are brief descriptions of the 'Transcendental movement and its influence from Millerism, phrenology, temperance, hydropathy, Grahamism. We are thus officially reminded that Fruitlands was the home of the Alcotts as social experimenters. But something in the spirit of the house itself defies the asceticism of that experiment. E climb the stairs and find Louisa! Here is her room. There on the bench are her spectacles. And there, up the narrow steps, Jo's attic, with the expected book and an apple. An_ apple! That's it. That's what's disturbing the 'Transcendental ghost. Despite all the Bronson Alcott mementos, it is the huge wooden bowl of ripe apples that dominates the central room downstairs, that gives it its warm, earthy smell. 'True, apples were a Staple of the Fruitlands diet, but one imagines them in their barrel hidden in the kitchen, nothing like this ripe abundance, this tantalizingly worldly perfume. And in the library it is a bowl of purple plums giving it a heavy, musky perfume. Up the staircase, it is the tang of dried herbs and mint; in the kitch- 98 en, the teasing scent of cloves in an antique grinder. Spices at Fruitlands! On the wooden table in the kitchen is a heavy, cornmeal cake, a cake worthy of Bronson Alcott, who baked his coarse bread in animal Shapes so the children could enjoy it. Here is fitting food for self-denial. But there is a basket near the window — eggs, a forbidden food at Alcott's Fruitlands. What are we to make of Fruitlands, a house of contradictions — a Transcendental museum and a delightfully scented, tastefully restored farmhouse? Perhaps our clue is in the fate of the 1843 experiment. It ended when Alcott, torn by Lane's desire to "liberate" him from the worldly vice of family, broke with his English companion. Alcott remained to his death a vegetarian who refused milk and eggs as well as meat, an idealist, a spiritual seeker, but he continued to affirm his ideal of family life. In one sense, then, Fruitlands is a_ veracious memorial to Bronson Alcott. It is the home of a thinker, but it is most convincing as the home of a happy, vigorous family. 'To the happiness and the vigor of his family, Alcott never ceased to contribute. We might remember that when _ his "Conversations" with — children (whom he considered closer to the Spirit than adults) caused his failure as a teacher in Boston, he continued to teach his own children. Though never succeeding in writing successfully for publication, he continued to fill volumes of private journals — and gave his children the 'Journal habit." Though he didn't enforce his eating habits on his fam- BRONSON ALCOTT — THE FATHER OF "LITTLE WOMEN" ily, he was constantly there as an example of self-denial. They saw him more than once give a poor neighbor his portion of a sparse supper. Though he could never provide comforts, and sometimes scarcelv necessities, he gave his children a home open to Emerson — and to a though Bronson Alcott failed in many things, "he did not fail as a Father." The Fruitlands experiment was to be a new social order known as the Con-Sociate Family. When it failed, Alcott left the farm, gravely disappointed. But perhaps his ghost has returned. We can see him there near the fireplace. Charles Lane is gone. But there are Marmee and the girls. And Jo, moody by the fire, is recording it all. Runaway slave. On his lecture tours there was seldom money to send home, but there were the constant, gentle, loving notes. Odell Shepard, Alcott's biographer, tells us that Snow, Girls, and a Watcher Ida Elaine James I have a pressing urge to go Down this winter road of snow Though block on block there's nothing to see. Now a school-girl trudges monotonously Loaded with books — a scarf on her head — It brightens the scene with cardinal red. What I can see of her hair is straight. She turns and listens, stops to wait For a schoolmate. Now the road is girled And alive! This one's hair is curled, And her scarf is gorgeous sunflower gold. They see and yet they do not see My searching look — pass absently And disappear, as I look far — Wondering where the brief scarfs are Upon the schoolgirls once I had. I trudge along the snowy, sad, And silent road. There's nothing to see But snow and snow monotonously; Nor snow, nor girls would notice me. 99 Ramona W. Cannon ELOVED former Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, who ruled. For fifty-eight vears and then, in 1948, abdicated in favor of her daughter Juliana, died November 25 in Apeldoorn at the age of eightytwo. Ascending the throne at the age of ten, she was officially crowned at eighteen; she ruled longer than any other member of the house of Orange. A woman of wisdom, intelligence, and courage, Queen Wilhelmina showed these qualities particularly during the dark days of World War If. Upon abdicating, she asked that she be treated as "private person." MBs. ANNA ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, wife of the late Franklin Delano Roosevelt, thirtysecond President of the ee States, died November 7, 1962, 1 New York City, at the age of seventy-eight. The Eleanor Roosevelt Foundation has been set up to perpetuate her humanitarian work. Mrs. Roosevelt had been the United States Representative in the General Assembly of the United Nations and chairman of the United Nations Economic and Social Council Commission on Human Rights and first chief of the President's Commission on the Status of Women. RS. LUUKIA PELEKAT, mother of thirteen children, and grandmother of twenty-four moopunas (grandchildren) is head housekeeper of the famous Hotel Hana on the Island of Maui. An active member of the Church, Mrs. Pelekai was left a widow in 1946. She assisted her children in getting an education and several of them filled missions.. In her work at the hotel, Mrs. Pelekai gives great care to the famous koa walls, ohia wood floors, the fine paintings and _ bronzes, and the framed engravings of early Polynesians. ARY ELLEN CHASE, | renowned Biblical scholar and one of America's best-loved novelists, is the author of The Psalms for the Common Reader, which is reaping the highest of praise. She is also author of The Bible and the Common Reader. Her purpose is to help readers better to understand the meaning, background, and _ spiritual and literary beauty of this wondrous Bible poetry. Sidney Kaplan, Professor of English, University of Massachusetts, calls the book "an expert charting... Of deathless lines." 101 EDITORIAL, FEBRUARY 1963 The Modern Homemaker F a contest were held to determine the most often repeated cliche, "We live in a changing world" would surely win. Yet the element of truth in the statement is so apparent that no one can deny that we do live in a changing world. In fact, the changes in some ways leave us standing in awe, breathless and marveling, and perhaps somewhat unprepared for the speed with which our individual worlds change. Another cliche, changed slightly by Margaret Hickey, Public Affairs Editor of the Ladies Home Journal, to fit the modern woman is, '""Never underestimate the brainpower of a woman." Women in today's world need to recognize the first of these two cliches and to capitalize on the second. 'The home presents infinite possibilities for use of this brainpower in the variety of roles required of a wife and mother in present-day living. 'The creative possibilities in the care of a home and family outweigh the repetitious tasks: that may seem somewhat confining. Many a beautiful poem has been conceived while the author was engaged in prosaic manual tasks. Beautiful 102 children's clothes have been mentally designed while hands were busy washing dishes. Scripture has been committed to memory while the ironing was being accomplished. An old saying "Like Mother used to make' expresses a nostalgic picture of mother in the _ kitchen making something wonderful — so wonderful that all their lives the children look back with fondest memory to a concoction no one can make quite "lke mother used to make." 'This is one of the ways family traditions are born. Quite frequently it is not an elaborate dish that is remembered, but some family favorite into which mother stirred a little of herself — something which evokes a remembrance of mother's personality and of the taste and flavor of family life. The seasoning was more than a mixture of herbs, it was mother's delightful way. Modern homemakers may wish to remember this. Every woman who enters a kitchen carries with her the possibility of adding to the family's store of memorabilia. Still another old adage takes for granted that wives should help their Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Mary R. Young Josie B. Bay Mary V. Cameron Alberta H. Christensen Afton W. Hunt Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond husbands "get ahead." 'This they do in part by being thrifty. One of the most important virtues for every homemaker to acquire is the habit of thnft. Careful planning of expenditures is a contribution to the well-being of a family which is most helpful in "getting ahead." The best modern homemaker will combine the old-fashioned virtues associated with her calling with the avilities required for homemaking in her present situation. She needs so many arts and skills to make her home the haven of se- | curity and happiness it should be, that Relief Society must be prepared to help. Helping to meet the problem of modern home management is the assignment of the work meeting. 'Those whose duty it is to plan the activities of the work meeting must do so keeping in mind the complexities of modern housekeeping. This planning must extend beyond a mere listing of articles to be made to a consideration of wavs to be helpful in all of the arts and skills of homemaking. Relief Society can aid its members in the special skills involved m Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie money management, in the fundamental skills involved in keeping clean and orderly homes, and in the creative skills involved in sewing, cooking, and decorating. Members can be enlightened on the wise use of time and energy. 'They can be given a background of guidance for making plans which will help to assure superior homes. Relief Society can teach its members to consider the needs of all members of their families for the security of a happv home. 'This feeling of security is a tower of strength in this often bewildering world. Happy homes are a combination of the spirit of those who dwell therein and the wise use of management resources. Relief Society can help its members know that women's place in the home is not a relegation to drudgery but a place in which they can make maximum use of their brainpower. Women can aspire to no greater heights than to be eminently successful in the role they were intended to fill, that of wife, mother, and homemaker. —L. W. M. 103 Notes to the Field Talking Book Records of Relief Society Lessons Available for the Sightless HE Society for the Aid of the Sightless has prepared the Relief Society study courses for October 1962 to May 1963 on talking book records. These courses include the visiting teacher messages; theology; work meeting discussions; literature; and social science. 'The recordings will be sent free to anv blind person desiring them; they have been prepared for the use of the blind only. Rquests should be sent to the Society for the Aid of the Sightless, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives tor having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1962 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1963. Springtime Snow Mabel Jones Gabbott This springtime world, so beautiful, is cold, Snow-white; yet underneath the earth is warm, Keeping the sun-spilled forsythia fires Along the path, the tulip's blaze of gold, Or dandelions, mounding lawns like pyres Of heaped-up suns; holding like a charm This radiance, until the untimely snow Has gone.... So shall I keep your words to glow Within my heart when you must go. 104 i FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS GRADUATE FROM 'THE PRACTICAL NURSING DEPARTMENT, CENTRAL UTAH VOCATIONAL SCHOOL, PROVO, UTAH Left to right: Melva Openshaw, Santaquin; Venice Johnson, Provo; Arva Rowley, Pleasant Grove; Helen Wiscombe, Mapleton. Relief Society Supports Home Nursing Nellie F. Kujala Head, Practical Nursing Department, Central Utah Vocational School HE need for adequately prepared women to care for the sick has always been of paramount importance and concern. As a partial answer, home nursing courses have been organized and taught; organizations such as the Relief Socicty have lent their support; schools of nursing have been given support and encouraged to maintain high scholastic standards. 'These schools have served better to prepare the young girl for her future role as wife and mother and to supply communitics with adequately prepared people to care for those who are ill. Women who meet nursing requirements have been encouraged to pursue nursing. The Relief Society has also shown an interest in nursing activities. This was again made apparent at recent commencement exercises of the Practical Nursing Department of the Central Utah Vocational School, Provo, Utah, when it was discovered that seven of the twenty graduates had been active Relief Society officers. Among these were four former presidents, two counselors, and one secretary. Graduates of Utah schools of practical nursing have attained the highest scores in the national licensing examination for several years. Those engaged in teaching practical nursing feel that the high scholastic achicvements are due to the high caliber of the Utah women and the influence of such organizations as the Relief Society. 105 The New Pioneers of Wales Elena Neale E|\AN sat back in her chair, closJ ing her book with a sigh. Oh, how she wished she had been born a hundred years ago. Reading about Church history was a favorite pastime of Jean's. 'To her it seemed as if all the romance of being a Latter-day Saint belonged to those faroff days. Dan Jones had come to Wales and taught the gospel and made many converts in South Wales. Most of those people had emigrated to America and had either traveled in covered wagons or had made their own handcarts and pushed them to Salt Lake. Jean could just picture herself struggling along the trail in her bare feet, with a faded gingham gown on, and an equally faded sunbonnet. How brave she would have been when they had met Indians, or had gone short of water or food! Then, at last, to reach the Vallev where the saints were — to help to build it up into the beautiful place that it was now! 'That was a time to have lived, not now when everything was so ordinary. Oh, well. Jean rose with another sigh and started to lay the table for the evening meal. Dad would be home soon from work, and her brothers from school, and Mum from Relief Society meeting. Jean was a convert to the Church, as were all her family. The mis- 106 sionaries had knocked on their door one August day in 1955 and, eventuallv, had baptized the whole family. Now she was grown up, all of eighteen years, and working in an office, today being her day off. Jean was rather petite, with large black eyes and silky black hair, and a very romantic disposition. Her father was branch president of their small branch in Wales, and her mother was a Primary teacher. Jean herself taught the little ones in Sunday School and loved doing it. 'They were all active in the Church, but sometimes it seemed to Jean as if it were rather pointless. Just then the door opened and in came Mum. "Hello, Jean," she said, "have you had a quiet afternoon to yourself?" "Yes," said Jean, "I finished that book on Church history." "Good," said Mum. "I must find time to read it, when I can. Come on now, pet, let's get a meal ready before Dad comes home. You haven't forgotten that we are all going out tonight?" "No," said Jean, "I am looking forward to it. It's not often we get one of the leaders of our Church to speak to us." Tonight had been set apart for a district meeting, when all the branches were meeting to listen to a talk from one of the Authorities of the Church. Jean had no more time for daydreaming then, as each member of the family came in for the meal. It was all rush to get everything over in time, and to get ready to go. They were lucky to live so close to the school where the meeting was to be held, and soon they were there. Jean loved these gatherings of the saints. Here one felt at home with everyone, and it was a pleasure to renew one's acquaintance with friends from other branches. At last everyone was seated in the hall, with the speakers on the platform. 'The district president rose, and the meeting went on as planned. At last it came to the turn of the main speaker. He was a fine-looking man, so clean, so strong, and a good example of Latter-day Saint living. Jean sat back to listen carefully to him. His first words made her sit up, however, as he said how good it was to be here with "the Church's new pioneers." Jean listened, enthralled! 'This was an aspect of being a convert that she had never realized before. It was true, everything he said. The pioneers of a hundred years ago had played their part as was required of them, but there were still goals to be reached. Wales was a district now, with scattered branches in it, but one day it would be a stake. Every individual member had a duty to perform in spreading the gospel among friends. Every member had a duty to perform by attending sacrament mectings, and supporting the auxiliaries. 'ST FERE in this hall," went on the speaker, "are the new pioneers, ready to build Wales up THE NEW PIONEERS OF WALES to become a strength in the mission field. Just as your ancestors helped to build up Salt Lake City and the other parts of Utah, here you must build up the Church. 'To have a knowledge of the gospel and a strong testimony is not enough, if one keeps it to oneself. We must build up our meetings until people will be queuing up to join in with us. Make our meetings friendly, attractive places, with a smiling welcome for everyone. Do what we can to bring converts in. Strengthen our Priesthood, support our presidents." The speaker went on for some time on this theme, and when the meeting was over, everyone felt charged with a new enthusiasm, especially Jean. At home that evening, her father was already making plans for the branch and his counselors were supporting him. Jean escaped to her bedroom after family prayers, and sat down to review the evening. Only this afternoon she had been bemoaning her lot, as an ordinary Latter-day Saint, with nothing to do. Now a whole new field of activity opened in front of her. Here was a challenge which just had to be taken up! Were the people of Wales today going to be outdone by their ancestors of Dan Jones' time? No, not if she could do anything about it. Jean went down on her knees to pray for guidance and strength from the Lord, and forgiveness for her apathy in the past. Daydreaming was over. At last she, too, was a pioneer! 107 Mone with Lrauly Alice R. Rich EAUTY one day manifested itself and brought joy, deep and satisfying, to pioneer eight-year-old Nellie, as she went about her evening chores in late summer. In that cool twilight hour she let the soft sand sift through the sun-browned toes of her bare feet, while she waited for the last of the family milk cows to come through the open gate from the upper pasture on their way to the corral. Their lowing made pleasant echoes as the sound came back from the rugged cliffs of the high Pine Valley Mountains to the west. Nellie had started a little early on this regular activity tonight, so she could watch a wild primrose plant blossom. It stood only a little way from the wagon road, made flinty hard by the passing of many ironrimmed wagon wheels, as they hauled the countless loads of farm produce and the sturdy cords of firewood brought from the nearby hillsides to be burned in the iron cook stoves and wide fireplaces. Nellie had first seen the primrose plant when a tiny green point pierced the hard, dry soil. She had watched morning and evening as she brought the cows to and from the pasture and marveled at the growth of the primrose in the hard earth, with only the infrequent summer showers to water it. 'Tonight, the veined leaves spread over the ground, and three swollen buds curled to- 108 gether in the center, tightly wrapped in cone-shaped calyxes. She was sure that the flower would bloom that night. Hurriedly, she urged the cows through the corral gate, fastened the lock, and went back to watch beside the plant. She sat on the cooling soil with arms clasped around her bare knees to watch the primrose on this night of nights, for she had looked forward to this time since first she had discovered the struggling plant with its green points piercing the soil. A striped-back chipmunk frisked his bushy tail and scurried along the pole fence, his cheeks bulging with garnered food for winter storing. When he saw Nellie he paused to chatter a word of scolding. A hurried glance at him was all she could spare. She must not let her eyes move from looking at the flower a single second, she must see the bud open and convince herself that Jack, with his beanstalk, wasn't the only one who knew the miracle of plant growth. A noisy crow flew over her head on his way to the cedar thicket; a meadow lark sang his cheery song from the beech tree on the creek bank; and the nightly frog orchestra from Lawson's meadow sent its croaking notes over the still might air. Nellie usually enjoyed all these lovely sights and sounds, but tonight she gave them only a passing thought. She must keep her eyes and thoughts on the swelling primrose bud; she must see it open. An exquisite fragrance came from the primrose plant through the cool air. One green frond uncurled, and part of a petal lifted the edge of its curled yellow satin head ever so slightly. Then a quivering tear opened further in the green, and one bud stood almost upright in its swollen cone. The miracle was happening! Next, a deep yellow seam opened from top to base of the bud. Then a calyx opened, and the bud stretched itself as a second seam split and the second calyx opened itself out and down to let a soft center pistil lift and make way for the last calyx to unfold and let the ALONE WITH BEAUTY velvety petals spread wide their yellow loveliness. In quick succession, the other two buds quietly and methodically broke their binding green, and three lovely primroses quivered on their fragile stems to make a beautiful centerpiece in their leafy foliage. The long twilight faded into near darkness, as Nellie, lost as to time and place, sat and enjoyed the living wonder and beauty before her. 'The challenge and promise of the wayside plant had given her lovely thoughts to tuck and tie into her dreams and had answered her quest in its wonder and its mystery. The simple desire of her child heart and its accomplishment had fed her soul. She had lived today. CS SSD Day of the Spelling Match Maude Rubin Like ten-pins most of the boys went down, Leaving only me and that city girl. She tried the hard word, then with a frown Flipped to the bench with a flowery twirl Of her wild-rose skirts. I spelled it loudly, CINNAMON. The prize was a pencil, Bright red, sharp-pointed. Whistling proudly, I carried triumph enough to fill All Gold Hill Gulch. No road too steep — I conquered the mountain in one great leap! 109 110 WHITE SANDS, NEW MEXICO For Tomorrow Dorothy J. Roberts Burden are the moments — Save those love-tempered ones — Called back by blossoming plum, Revived by rivers,. Wakened by a winding road. Burden, are the days, Walking a lonely way, Burden, the refusals. Adamant, the contour Of the prideful deed Sculptured on the years.... Impending and allotted time, The better self be yours. Cupped here is essence of desire, Bouquet to pour Whole, upon the task, The tender eyes, the hour. Aoe MAD INDOOR GARDENS for Your Child Helen B. Morris URING the early days of spring, before the first hyacinths burst into bloom, you can add a note of brightness to your home and to your child's enthusiastic interest with a simple indoor garden. Here are a few ideas for indoor fun with gardening. Milk Carton Planter Yr may want to make your own planter from a wax or plastic-coated milk carton. First, cut the carton in half lengthwise, so the ends of the two sides will be shaped like triangles. Use only the half without the opening. To make the legs for the planter, stand the carton on end on a piece of folded cardboard, and trace around two sides. Cut out along the line, and partly unfold the cardboard. Make two of these for each planter. The legs may be fastened to the planter with Scotch tape or masking tape. The planter may be decorated with heavy aluminum foil, or covered with foil, or it may be covered with a thin layer of papier-mache and painted with water colors and shellacked for a glossy finish. Prepare the compost for your planter by mixing two parts of garden soil to one part of humus. Humus is simply decayed leaves, or other decayed organic material. If your soil has clay in it, add one part out of four parts of sand to the mixture. Put the prepared soil in the planter and plant a few seeds of small flowers, such as dwarf marigolds, baby zinnias, or: dwarf petunias. Set your planter in a sunny window, keep the soil moist, and watch your plants grow and bloom to make a spot of springtime in your child's room. 11 FEBRUARY 1963 A Crystal Garden NOTHER kind of indoor garden may be made from colored crystals. To make this garden, you will need some small pieces of brick, or pieces of a broken flower pot, clinkers from a coal furnace, a saucer, a bowl, salt, water, mercurichrome, household ammonia, and laundry bluing. In the bowl, mix together 4 tablespoons water, 4 tablespoons salt, 1 tablespoon ammonia, 4 tablespoons laundry bluing, and a few drops mercurichrome. Place the pieces of brick or clinkers in the saucer and pour the mixture over them. Place the saucer where it will not be disturbed. As the liquid evaporates, crystals will begin to form, and within a few days you will have a beautiful indoor crystal garden. A Vegetable Garden OU can grow your own indoor plants with only water, a jar, and a sweet potato, horseradish, or a few carrot tops (not the foliage) Put a sweet potato in a jar and add enough water so the potato is about half covered. Keep the jar in a sunny place and keep enough water in it so the potato is always half covered. Leaves will grow on top of the sweet potato and roots will grow into the water. Or you may cut the tops (not the foliage) from 5 or 6 carrots and put them in a bowl. Put about an inch of water in the bowl. Green leaves will grow from the tops of the carrots. A horseradish will sprout, if the top end is cut off and placed in a bowl of water. The long part will also send up green leaves, if it is split and placed flat side down into the water. A Water Garden O make your own indoor water garden, you will need a flat dish, a horseradish, carrot tops, small figurines of frogs, birds, and flowers, colored rocks, and some small, round sticks to be used as logs. Put water into the dish and place a row of rocks along one end to make the bank of the pond. A few drops of blue food coloring may be added to the water. Between the rocks plant some carrot tops. In one corner put the clumpy top end of a horseradish, and across the other two sides, place the long parts of the horseradish as explained above. Arrange the logs in the dish, and figures of frogs, birds, lilies, and insects on the rocks, logs, and in the water. If you wish you may make your own figures from melted wax, clay, or soap, or you may use small toys or figurines which can be bought at the variety store. If you keep the water fresh, the carrot tops and horseradish will sprout, and your water garden will make a bright spot in your child's room while he is waiting for spring. 112 Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 2 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who has been married seven months, goes with her husband Dick to see his family home. Irene, who met Dick in South Africa and has no relatives in the States, is to live in the old home with Dick's Grandfather and _ his young handicapped brother, who have been living elsewhere. The shabby old house repels Irene, and she is worried over her responsibilities in the strange household. 66 RANDAD, this is Irene," Dick said. Grandad might once have been as tall as his wiry grandson, but his shoulders were stooped with many years. A cane hooked over one arm also revealed his age. Otherwise, the few lines in his face accented his dignity. His hair was iron gray, with snow-white streaks running through it. He must have gone gray early like Dick, Irene thought. Grandad took one of her hands into both of his. Sea-green eyes smiled into hers. "Dick has good taste," he said mischievously. "I've always been partial to brown-eyed blondes. Dick's letters have been full of nothing but you for the past year. I'm glad to know you at last, Irene." "Dick told me about you," Irene spoke through a tightening in her throat. "About Davy, and how wonderful you and Aunt Ella have been." "Let's get on with your tour of the house," Grandad _ interjected 114 easily. He was embarrassed by reference to his sacrifices for his grandson. Irene understood, and a warm feeling of kinship with him flooded her. He asked, "Have you been upstairs? Have you seen the solarium? The library? What have you missed?" "Some other time, Grandad," Dick said. "Trene's pretty worn out. You weren't home when we got here, so I took the key from Aunt Ella and we came over just to pass the time. Right now what we need most is something to eat." "No sooner said than done," Grandad nodded. "Your Aunt Ella knew you'd be hungry. She's fixing something now. We didn't expect you until tomorrow." "Dick was so anxious to get home that he didn't stop to make any of the business calls he intended to make," Irene explained. "Then they'll keep, I imagine." Grandad grinned. "Let's go. Come on, Davy." He took the child's hand and drew him out from where he was half-hidden behind him. Dick was startled. He hadn't known the boy was there at all. "Davy! I didn't see you there! How's my boy? Come on over here and let me have a look at you." He stooped down and sat on his heels, his arms extended. Davy retreated further behind his grandfather. Grandad's tone was reassuring. "Tt's your brother Dick, Davy. Home at last. All the way from South Africa." Dick looked up at Grandad. A puzzled frown pulled his eyebrows together. "He doesn't remember me, does he?" "No, not much. He was less than four years old when you left. He knows about you, though. He's known for quite a while that you were coming home. He's been waiting for you. He's just a bit timid." [ RENE was mystified. "How do you know he was waiting? I mean, with his handicap...?" There was a warning fire in Grandad's eye. "Davy is not tretarded mentally, Irene. He's very normal in most ways. We never discuss him as if he can't understand, because he can." Walking to the car, Grandad went ahead with Davy. Dick's voice was low. "Grandad didn't mean to be curt, honey, but you have to know about Davy. He's really gifted in some ways. Grandad's tutored the boy himself because, of course, we couldn't place him in a_ public school, and financially we've been unable to hire anyone else. Grandad wanted to do it. He used to teach at the university. Under the circumstances, he's done wonders with Davy." Irene mused, "When the child looks at you, Dick... Well, I've never seen anything quite like i "I know the look you mean. He used to do that before I left. Get that awful expression on his face. KEEP MY OWN Sort of blank." He drew a deep breath. "I don't know exactly what it means. Grandad could explain it better... Basically, I guess it's a sort of defense, like not speaking. All of it is psychological. We made sure of that. There's not a thing wrong with Davy physically." Davy scrambled into the back seat of Dick's car and took refuge in a comer. Grandad was looking back at the house. After a moment of meditation, Dick spoke. "It's home, Grandad." "Our family belongs there," Grandad said. "In a way, the house doesn't belong to us. We belong to it." Irene was silent, the alien, apart from those who belonged. Dick drew her back into the circle. "When I was just a little fellow Grandad used to recite John Burroughs, Irene. While I was away, it almost seemed I could hear the house itself intoning the same lines." "John Burroughs? I know." " "Waiting. 'That's the one you mean, isn't it?" Grandad asked. Dick nodded. Grandad went on, a quaver forming an emotional undertone to his words: I don't think Serene, I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, nor sea; I rave no more 'gainst time or fate, For lo! My own shall come to me. The stars come nightly to the sky; The tidal wave unto the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me. "That's a part of it," he said after a moment, "the part you probably mean." Dick was obviously moved by the 5 FEBRUARY 1963 recitation. "Yes."" He touched Irene's rr: 9? Arm. "Coming, honey? "Yes." She glanced back once MOre, HE powerful motor of the car propelled them rapidly away down the wide street, leaving the grand old house alone and quiet again in the protecting shade of the trees that surrounded it. It had waited many years. It was content to wait yet a little time more for the return of its own. "Now, Irene," Grandad cautioned as they turned in the drive leading to the small house, "don't take Dick's Aunt Ella too seriously. She's a bit brusque sometimes, but she means well. When you get to know her, youll think as much of her as we do." "You told me hardly anything about her, Dick," Irene reminded. "She's a distant aunt on my mother's side, honey," he replied. "Grandad could tell you how distant. She doesn't have anybody but us. She was my mother's right hand, and she's kept the family together ever since mother... Since we lost her." Grandad nodded agreement. The cottage was a white jewel, nestled in a setting of trees and grasses that still wore the new-green patterns of early spring. Irene sighed in appreciation. "It's such a pretty cottage," she said. "We've been comfortable here, but it's not like living in our own home," Grandad said. Looking at the glistening white cottage, Irene wondered how anyone could prefer that gloomy old mansion to this. 116 Filla met them at the door. When they had arrived earlier, she had been bathing, and had told Dick where the key to the big house was. Irene was surprised to see that Ella wasn't as old as she had originally surmised. Her hair was rolled into a neat bun high on the back of her head. Her figure was ample and her smile easy, when she chose to bestow it. "It's about time you came back," she said. "Don't you know it's way past lunchtime? Or don't you eat regularly in South Africa?" Dick laughed at her. "People in South Africa are much the same as they are here, with much the same appetites. Something smells good, Aunt Ella!" Grandad led Irene forward. "Ella, this is Dick's wife, Irene." Flla stuck out her hand. Awkwardly, Irene took it. She wasn't accustomed to women — shaking hands. Indeed, handshaking at all was in Irene's eyes, a purely American habit. Ella pumped her arm for a moment, then dropped it unceremoniously. "Glad to know you," she said heartily. "Come in, come in. Everything's ready. I know my Davy's hungry." Davy ran to her, and they led the way to the kitchen. LLA was justly proud of her culinary skills. A thick potato soup with flecks of ham floating atop it was followed by a delightfully crisp spring salad. The homemade dressing had a pleasing tang, the perfect complement to the delicate vegetables. While the food was disappearing, Ella dominated the conversation. Irene listened to the steady run of her chatter, noting with a_ half-detached air of amusement that Ella was prone to both ask and answer most of her own questions. "What did you think of the house? Big old place. 'Take a lot of work to get it into livable shape again. Old-fashioned before Dick left. Worse now. Give us ll something to think about and work on, won't it? Hard work never hurt anybody. Davy, drink your milk." The boy obeyed her without seeming to have heard her. Irene had been watching him out of the corner of her eye. She noticed that when he thought no one was watching him, the vacant expression dissipated itself. It had dissolved now into an unmistakable aura of hero-worship as he stared at Dick. Grandad cut across the steady volley of Ella's words. "Then you will move back to the big house with us, Ella?" Ella paused in the middle of a sentence. "I thought you'd need me. A house that size is a big job for two women, let alone one. If you don't want me, though...." "Now, don't get touchy," Grandad soothed. "Of course, we want you. Irene will need all the help she can get. I thought you might not want to leave here. You've made this house a home." "T want to be where I'm needed," Filla interrupted, a trifle testily. '"There's no purpose being anywhere if you're not needed there." Grandad spread soft butter and thick honey on a hot biscuit. "How about it, Irene?" Irene recalled distastefully the KEEP MY OWN soot and grime and dust that mantled the big house. If she lacked enthusiasm, she couldn't help it. Ella was appraising her with a sharp eye. She said quietly, "After all, it's your home too, Ella." "Then that's settled." seemed well satisfied. Grandad lay down in his hammock to nap. Davy went outside to play, and Ella busied herself about the house. Rejuvenated by the excellent luncheon, Dick and Irene strolled about the town. He wished to renew his memories of it, while she sought to become acquainted with it. Grandad E guided her along the loved paths of his childhood with remembered skill. "How do you like it, honey?" he asked. "Utah is just as I always thought it would be, and Spencerside seems to be a lovely little town. 'There's just one thing." "What's that?" "Wouldn't it be more practical, business wise, to be located in one of the cities?" "T considered it. Actually not in a bad position here. An hour's drive to Salt Lake. Convenient to other towns as well. Advance bidding will bring me most of my work. It should work out fine in that respect." He paused. "It might be practical later to open offices in the city, if I do that well." They sat on stools at the soda fountain in the drugstore and ordered malted milks. Dick introduced Irene to many friends and neighbors who stopped by to welcome him home. As they were finwe re About 17 FEBRUARY 1963 ishing their drinks, he selected a bag of candy for Davy. While he was paying the clerk, Irene came across a child's book on a rack near the magazine stand. It was titled, See the New Baby. She looked through it, and when Dick rejoined her, she held it out for him to see. "It might be hard to tell Davy about the baby," she said, "but this might help. Not mnght away, of course. 'The time would seem so long to a child. Later, perhaps, when we're better acquainted." Dick glanced at it, and was pleased by the illustrations and appealing text. "It may be just the ticket," he said. He dug a few more coins out of his pocket and handed them to the clerk. Irene was enchanted with the book, although she had hardly had time to read it. The pictures were charming. She anticipated Davy's delight when she would give it to him. 'hen a shadow darkened the pleasing mental picture. Would he be delighted? Would he understand? Would he be jealous of the baby? How on earth was one to know? Oh, Davy, Davy. If only whatever sealed your voice could be undone, forgotten. If only you could speak! Walking back to the cottage, Irene spoke hesitantly, broaching a subject she had thought of many times since she had heard about Davy. "Dick, as long as your grandfather and Ella haven't been able to help Davy overcome his... Difficulty... Don't you think it might be best to send him away, to a school for children with his handicap? There must be some excellent ones. 118 They'd know what to do for him much better than we do." ICK'S lips tightened. "I have talked to specialists about such arrangements, Irene. Because of the nature of his trouble, what brought it on and so forth, they don't advise such a school, except as a last resort. I investigated several schools, too, and found that there are excellent ones, fine places that even specialize in his type of affliction. They aren't for Davy. Not yet, at least. Not until home therapy, which the doctors continue to advise... Has been proved a failure." "T see." She tried to keep the bitterness she felt out of her tone. "Of course we must do whatever's best for Davy." He glanced at her sharply. He had heard the undertone of her words, and recognized her selfish wish to set aside a responsibility, to relegate it to someone else. "Yes," he said firmly, "we'll do what's best for him." Irene had mangled the beauty of the afternoon. She regretted it, but was at a loss to know how to make amends. 'They walked the rest of the way back to the cottage in a charged silence. Grandad had awakened, for the hammock was empty. Dick saw Davy playing on the hillside back of the house. "Why don't you go on in the house, Irene? I'll go get Davy. Here, take the candy. You can give it to him." He hurried away. Irene rested a moment in the spring-scented coolness of the back porch. She was charmed by the cottage, and enjoyed the quiet aloneness of the porch. Then she froze in the act of sniffing the delectable aroma of Ella's kitchen, as Ella's voice came to her through the partially opened door. "T want to give her the benefit of a doubt, too, but I'm not sure I like the idea of someone I don't know taking much of the care of my Davy." "She may be just what he needs," Grandad said, "a new mother image." "What do we know about her?" Ella demanded. "Nothing, that's what. Just nothing." "You're creating mountains without even a molehill to start. I know enough about her. I know she's Dick's wife. I know she gave up her home, and even her country, to come here with him. 'That takes grit, Ella. Grit and a lot of love for Dick. That should be enough to know." "All that's well and good, but she seems mighty young to be taking on the responsibility of Davy." "I'm sure she'll appreciate your help, Ella." Irene was confused. She didn't know how to make her presence known without embarrassing Grandad and Fla. "We've done well with him," Ella insisted. "He's shown lots of promise lately." Grandad sounded much like Dick when he said, "Small victories, Ella, little things, after all is said and done. Whenever we feel we've done so much, we should remind ourselves of one thing." "What's that?" "He still doesn't speak." In the ringing silence that followed, Irene rattled the screen door KEEP MY OWN and coughed a little to announce herself. As she entered the kitchen, she held out the candy. "Dick bought it for Davy," she said, "but there's enough, if you'd like some." Grandad peered into the paper bag. "Well now! Salt water taffy. Thank you, Irene." "Ella?" "No, thanks." It wasn't quite a rebuff. Ella softened the sharp impact with a hastily added, "I'm much too fat. I'm trying to stop eating so many sweets." "That's a good idea," Irene said. "IT don't want to gain too much weight before the baby comes. Maybe we could watch our diet together. "Baby?" Ella refused to lower her eyes. "T must have forgotten to mention it," Grandad said. "Dick wrote about it. October, I think he said. Is that right, Irene?" "Yes. It'll be quite an experience I mean, I don't know much about babies. I was the only child, and when I was orphaned I went to live with an aunt. I've just never been around babies. I'll really appreciate having you, Ella. I think every new mother needs another woman, don't you?" The appeal was obvious. Grandad smiled to himself at Irene's subtle diplomacy. He wondered how Ella would answer the plea that had touched every word Irene spoke, and still hung suspended in the air. Ella had opened her mouth to speak when Dick and Davy burst noisily through the door. The moment was lost. (To be continued ) 119 Roll pastry % inch thick. Cut in 5- or 6-inch circles. Fit into large muffin pans, pressing out all air bubbles. 'Turn under and flute edges; prick well with fork. Or fit pastry circles over inverted custard cups, pinch together at four corners, and prick. Bake in hot oven (450°) about 15 minutes. Lemon Chiffon Tarts 1 tbsp. Gelatin 4 eggs, separated % ¢. Cold water 72 ¢. Lemon juice 1 C. Sugar 1 tsp. Lemon rind Soak gelatin in cold water. Beat egg yolks, add % cup sugar and lemon juice, and beat until very night. Cook over low heat until of custard consistency. Remove from heat, and add lemon juice. Add soaked gelatin and mix well. Cool mixture. Add % cup sugar to well beaten egg whites and combine with cooled mixture. Spoon into baked tart shells and chill. Serve with whipped cream. Basic Recipe for Cream Fillings % ¢. Sugar 6 tsp. Sugar Y% c. Cornstarch "4 tsp. Salt 2 c. Milk, scalded flavoring 3 eggs, separated Mix % c. Sugar and cornstarch, add milk, and cook over low heat until thick. Add egg yolks and cook 3 minutes. Remove from fire, add flavoring, and chill. Pour into baked shells and cover with meringue made of stiffly beaten egg whites, combined with 6 tsp. Sugar. Bake in moderate oven 12 to 15 minutes. 121 Variations Vanilla — Flavor with 1 tsp. Vanilla Coconut — Add 1 c. Coconut Pineapple — Add 1 c. Shredded pineapple (drained) Chocolate — Add 2 squares chocolate (melted) Lemon — Substitute 1% c. Water for milk, and flavor with juice and grated rind of one lemon. Chocolate Chiffon Tarts Substitute 2 squares of chocolate and % c. Boiling water for the lemon juice and rind in the basic recipe. Flavor with vanilla. Peach Perfection Tarts 1 tbsp. Sugar % tsp. Almond extract 1% tbsp. Cornstarch 2% ¢. Sliced peaches, drained 1% c. Syrup from canned peaches 6 baked tart shells 1 tbsp. Lemon juice whipped cream, as desired 2 tsp. Butter sugar to taste few grains of salt Mix sugar and cornstarch, add peach syrup, and cook over low heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add butter, lemon juice, salt, almond extract, and peaches. Chill thoroughly. Fill tart shells and garnish with sweetened whipped cream. Banana Cream Tarts % c. Flour 2 eggs % tsp. Salt 3 bananas 2% c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 c. Milk 1 C. Apricot jam Mix flour, salt, and sugar together in top of double boiler. Stir in milk to make a smooth mixture and cook over direct heat, stirring constantly, until bubbly. Beat eggs. Add the hot sauce very, very slowly, beating vigorously. Pour back into double boiler and cook over hot water until thick and smooth. Continue stirring. Chill. Mash one banana with fork and mix into custard along with lemon juice. Spoon filling into baked tart shells, and cover tops with thin slices of the remaining two bananas. Work apricot jam through a sieve or blender until smooth. Heat over low heat until almost liquid. Spoon a thin layer of the glaze over bananas. Chill before serving. Raisin Filling 2 c. Seedless raisins /, ¢. Water (for dissolving cornstarch ) 1 c. Water 3 tbsp. Lemon juice "2 ¢. Brown sugar ' ¢. Chopped walnuts 3 level tbsp. Cornstarch Simmer raisins in 1 c. Water for about ten minutes, then add thickening made of cornstarch and % c. Water. Cook until mixture is thickened, stirring constantly. Remove from stove. Cool slightly and add lemon juice and walnuts. Spoon into baked tart shells. The top of the tarts may be garnished with a small amount of whipped cream slightly sweetened and flavored with lemon extract to suit taste. The consistency of the raisin mixture may be adjusted to suit preference by adding to or subtracting from the amount of cornstarch used. The recipe will fill approximately the number of tarts which may be made from the basic recipe. 122 ongoing —_— Yate BEB 080.5. + OS ene yet ORE CK Hazel L. Giles Collects Pioneer Relics HAet Lindsay Giles, Center Creek, Wasatch County, Utah, enjoys an unusual historical hobby. Through her interest in preserving the treasures of yesteryears, Mrs. Giles has built her own private museum of pioneer relics. Her childhood bedroom has been converted into a pioneer bedroom, authentic from the hand-woven rug on the floor to the lace window curtains. A lived-in atmosphere has been created with such items as a pioneer bed with a patchwork quilt and beautifully crocheted pillowslips made by Mrs. Giles' mother as a wedding gift more than fifty years ago. Adding a quaint atmosphere to the room is a stove that belonged to Mrs. Jane (Stacy) Murdock, one of the first settlers of Wasatch County. Three old-fashioned flatirons sit on the stove. A whatnot stand contains old china, square pikes, a powder horn, a family picture album, and many other antique items. Another relic is a rocking chair that belonged to Christina Lindsay, grandmother of Mrs. Giles, a widow who crossed the plains with her seven children in 1862. A wash bowl and pitcher set adorn an old-fashioned washstand with a marble top. During Wasatch County's centennial celebration many of the items of this collection were on special display. The work of Mrs. Giles in collecting pioneer treasures has inspired many other women to preserve the heirlooms of early days and to make them a part of the colorful history of the mountain valley. 123 Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 8 Shirley Thulin (Conclusion) HE next few weeks were hard ones for Marian. She was growing weary, and she was remembering Charles, and she could not straighten out her feelings about him. Jim was more excited than ever, though, and talked of little else than how proud he was of all the things they had been able to accomplish. "It will only take me a few days to finish replacing the timber at the mouth of the mine," he said. "The road is done, the water is drained out of the mine, and next year I can retimber the next level." "Tll be glad when you get the mouth of the mine _ retimbered," said Sue. "That wood looks bad to me." "It's looked like that ever since I can remember," Jim told her. "Dad always started deep inside, so I did." "Well, it doesn't make much difference now," Marian said. "Jim's going to fix it, and by Saturday we'll have all the packing done and be heading for home." She repeated the last word to herself over and over. It sounded so wonderful. Home.... Jim took his cap from the peg behind the door and put his hand on the knob. "You have made this cabin a home, Mother," he said. Marian laughed. "The woman's touch," she said. "Now get going, 124 and be sure to keep the twins working. I want you to finish so you can help me pack the last few days." "We always work," Ted protested. "Well, almost always," Jed added, "except when we stop to watch the chipmunks hiding their winter's food away." "Or go to find pine nuts." Jim teased. "Well, you showed us where to look for them," Jed reminded. "And they'll taste mighty good at Christmas time,' said Marian. "Now hurry along, all of you." Marian put the big tub on two chairs out in the dooryard. She had to busy herself so that she wouldn't think of the way she had neglected to do for David these things he would have appreciated so much. If only I had made this cabin a home for him.... She poured buckets of hot water into the tub and swished the suds around. She was putting the clothes into the tub, when she looked up and saw Jake coming. I'm glad Jim isn't here, she thought. "Well, you look busy. I guess you've found that life here in this part of the country is a lot harder than at home, haven't you?" "Yes, it is, but I don't mind.' Marian wiped her hands and smoothed her hair back from her face. "Your garden looks good." "There isn't much of it left now," Marian said aloud, but kept wondering why he had come. She knew it wasn't to talk about her hard work, or her garden. "T have something here to show you." He took some folded papers from his pocket. "Had my lawyer make them out yesterday." Marian took them. She didn't know much about legal papers, but she could tell it had something to do with the selling of the Silver Star and the land that went with it. "That's a lot of money," she said, just above a whisper. "It's a lot more than what it's worth, as mining property, that is. You'd be wise to accept." ARIAN wanted to say she would, but she couldn't. Somehow the words wouldn't come, and she kept remembering what Dick had said that first day. "Jake doesn't offer something for nothing." "Why should you be so generous, Jake?" she asked. "Oh, I'm not being generous. I stand to make a good profit from this property. You see, it is no good for mining, as you probably know. But along with my layout, it would make a good spot for a hunting lodge. Of course, I will have to put a lot of money into it, build several large cabins, put in improvements." "Tsee. Well, I'll have to think it over. We have done all the work for this year, now." "You've done all the work for this year, but what about next year? It will be quite a few years before your boy is old enough to do it himself." Marian picked up some more OUT OF THE WILDERNESS clothes and put them into the tub. "You will have to come back after I've thought it over." He stood there, an awkward sllence between them. Then he turned toward the cabin and asked if he might have a drink of water. Marian wiped her hands again and walked behind him to the door. As Jake stepped inside, Marian could tell he was surprised. Even though she couldn't see his face, the sudden straightening of his shoulders told her that he could not quite believe what he saw. "You have fixed things up!' He turned to look at her. "There is still a lot we want to do." "I was up looking at the mine early this morning.... That boy has done a lot, too." Jake rubbed his chin, and the look in his eyes upset Marian. She stepped over towards the water bucket, but before she could get him the drink he had asked for, he said he guessed he had better be getting on back, and left. Marian stood in the doorway of the cabin and wondered at his sudden departure. She finally decided that it was his disappointment at her reluctance to sell, and went back to her washing. But every rub of her hands on the board, accentuated her distasteful feelings for Jake. HINGS were going pretty much according to schedule by Wednesday, and Marian found herself sorting and packing with a light heart. Jim and the twins had left early that morning. "We'll be able to finish today," Jim had told her, and after watching them go along 125 FEBRUARY 1963 the road a little way, she returned to her tasks. It seemed to Marian that the boys hadn't had time to reach the mine, when they came running back into the clearing. "Mom, oh, Mom!' Jim was in front of the twins, and he looked like the little boy he had once been, with his face twisted and the tears unchecked, rolling down his cheeks. "What in the world?" Marian hurried towards him. "Oh, Mother it's caved in." "Caved in?" "The front's all caved in," Ted verified. "The rotten guessed. "It wasn't the rotten wood. It wasn't that bad." Jim turned to look in the direction of the mine. "Jim, tell me what." "The whole front section of the mine has fallen down. The tunnel's packed solid with dirt and rocks." "But how...?" "T don't know. It was that way when we got there." He kicked at the ground with his foot. "It must have been the way Jed said. 'The wood was just too rotten and gave way " "T don't know.... All I know is that all our work has been for nothing. It will take weeks to dig it back out, maybe months!" "But the road. We fixed the road." "That won't count for enough. The work on the mine, along with fixing the road, was barely enough." ARIAN said, "But it can't be-. It just can't be! Our whole summer...." She was searching desthe mine." Jed wood 126 perately for something to say to comfort him, but she just stood there, bewildered. "T guess Jake was right," Jim said, his eyes dry now, his voice low. * We should have sold out to him when he offered." "Don't talk like that, Jim." "Well, we have lost the whole thing. We may as well have sold out as to just lose it." "IT can't believe we've lost it. Not after we've worked so hard. There must be some way." But her words stopped. Jake was coming towards them. "T just came from the mine. Was anyone hurt?" "No no one was hurt, lan answered. "You are just the man we want to see." Jim's tone frightened Marian. "Please, Jim.. "Your offer still good?" asked. "Why yes, but." "Well, we want to sell out," said. "No, we don't." Suddenly Marian's mind was clear. "We're not going to give up, not after all we have done. This property has been in the family for a long time, and we're going to keep it, somehow." "But the boy's rnght, Ma'am. There really isn't much you can do." Jake was ready to agree with Jim. "There is something we can do. We can stay and dig the mine out. Even if we have to do it with our hands!" '"'We have to get back for school," Jim reminded her. "T I know but." Marian was grasping for an answer. "" Mar- > the boy Jim "Spring vacation. We'll come back then and finish!" "Oh, Mom, let's not kid ourselves. That may be all right for this year, but what about next, and the next? It's just too much for us to handle." Marian looked at her son. He avoided her eyes. "Jim, you don't really want us to sell, do you?" "Of course he does," Jake said. "He's a sensible boy." Jim looked at his mother and then at Jake. Slowly the expression on his face changed from one of despair to a flickering of hope. "No, but what can we do?" HE sound of the car made them all turn in the direction of the road. "It's Dick and his father, but it isn't Saturday. I wonder." "Hi. Seen anything of a stray horse? Our new mare strayed away." "No, I haven't," Jim said. "Well, Jake." Dick and his father got out of the car. "Didn't expect to see you here. You were over at the Silver Bear a few minutes ago." "Yes, I just dropped by to see my neighbors." Dick looked at Marian, and then at Jim. He seemed to know that there had been something going on. "How is everything, Marian?" "Oh, Dick, the mine caved in. All of our work has been for nothing." "Caved in?" Dick's father narrowed his eyes and looked at Jake. "Did anyone get hurt?" "No, Mr. Tucker. No one got hurt, but we will lose the mine now. There isn't time to dig it out again." Mr. Tucker was still looking at Jake. He didn't seem to hear MarOUT OF THE WILDERNESS ian. He rubbed his chin and said, "You know, it seems to me that I once heard of another mine caving in, didn't I, Jake?" "Did you, Tucker?" Jake's voice was harsh, but there was a scared look in his eyes. "I better be headin' back." He turned to leave. "You be thinking about that deal we were talking about. Ill be back." "Just a minute, Jake." Mr. 'Tucker stepped in front of the big man, and Marian saw him bristle. "What deal's this you're talkin' about?" "Don't figure it's any of your business," Jake said, stepping past the little man. "Well, Pll make it my business. You weren't figuring to buy this property, were you, Jake?" "Like I said, it isn't much of your business." Jake's huge hands clenched into hard fists at his sides, and Dick stepped between them. "Take it easy, Dad." "Son, it's hard to take it easy when you know so much about a man that isn't good." "You don't know anything about me." Jake was grinning now. "You really don't know one thing about me, old man." "I know you had a hand in the caving in of another mine that you later bought, and I know you have been getting away with deer meat out of season, and I know why you want to buy this mine, too." Jake's smile vanished, and_ his words cut through the air. "You're only guessing, 'Tucker. If I want to make this property into a hunting lodge, that's my affair." "A hunting lodge? Well that's a good one. You found out about Johnson's mull, didn't you?" 127 FEBRUARY 1963? "You have no right. "Well, nght or wrong, you had better stay away from this mine." Tucker couldn't say any more, because Jake pushed him to one side and walked away fast. O one spoke until the air cleared a bit, then Mr. Tucker said, "He knows about Johnson's plans to build a mill. I didn't think the news had had a chance to get around yet, but I can tell he knows." "Someone's going to build a mull?" Jim was excited. "That means we can start shipping again." "Yes, it means lots of things, son. It means the town will be building up again. 'There is ore in these old mines that nobody even heard of a few years back. They will be moving in here, family after family." "Then Jake didn't want to make a hunting lodge."' Manan couldn't believe Jake's deception. "No, sir, he wants to mine the ore." "But he didn't really cave our mine in, did he?" "IT don't know. Nobody has ever been able to catch him at his tricks. Everyone thinks he had a hand in running the Wrights off their place last year." "Well, it doesn't matter, if he did it, or if it fell down by itself. We have to sell." Jim's excitement of a few moments ago had changed. "What do you mean, Jim?" Dick asked. "We have to go back Saturday. That doesn't give us time to dig it out." "Well, you don't have to worry, son,' Mr. 'Tucker assured him. "We'll get some of the men and 128 help. You aren't going to lose the mine. Not while I'm still ablebodied." "We can't let you do_ that," Manian told him. "You and Dick have already done so much for us, bringing | our supplies all summer, and. "Say, that reminds me," and the little man's eyes danced with a secret he seemed reluctant to tell. "What did you do with all that paint and other fixings you had us bring up?" "Oh, we just fixed up the cabin a bit." ARIAN was almost ashamed of the time she had wasted on the cabin. I should have helped Jim more at the mine, she thought. We could have finished replacing that bad timber sooner. "Just fixed up the cabin." He laughed a squeaky little laugh and could hardly stand still for the thoughts he was thinking. "Come on, Dad.' Dick was grinning now, too, knowing how his father loved a surprise. ""Tell us what this is all about." "You don't have to dig out the mine this summer, time to worry about that next vear. Go home and file the papers that you did all the necessary assessment work." "But I don't understand," ian said. "Don't vou sce? The work you did on the cabin counts, too. The cabin is part of the property, and a mighty important part, too! If you improve the cabin, you improve the property." "Really?" playing a game of leap frog. MarMarian's heart felt like "You mean the tarpaper on the roof, and the shelves and the closet." "Yes, and the paint in the kitchen, and come to think of it. The old man slapped his knee. "Tl bet this will be the first time that old office will receive listed improvements such as a painted kitchen and waxed floors!" Jim stood there, grinning and sniffing. "Well, I guess we had better get back to finding our horse," Dick said. "T had almost forgotten why we came," Mr. Tucker spoke slowly. "You know, it's almost worth losing a good horse if it kept Jake from getting away with something." Mr. Tucker got in the car. "When do you want me to come for you?" Dick got in the car, too. "Tomorrow, Marian said, "if it's all right." "It will be fine, and, Marian, if I were you, I would file a complaint to keep Jake off your property." "Oh, she won't need to, now that he knows we have found out about him. He will stay away," Mr. 'Tucker said, "no doubt about that." As the car drove away, Jim said, "I think Pll go take a look at the mine. Maybe we left some of our tools out. I'll be back soon." "All right, Jim," and Marian checked her impulse to go with him. She knew he wanted to be alone while he said goodbye to the mine until next year. She picked up a bucket. They didn't need any waOUT OF THE WILDERNESS ter, but she wanted to go for some anyhow. She had some goodbyes of her own to say. She wanted to say goodbye to the mountains, now dotted with fiery reds and yellows, and to the majestic trees that had somehow given her some of their strength. She wanted to thank the wilderness for sharing with her a secret, the secret of finding the strength within oneself to do the things that must be done. By coming to the wilderness, she thought, I have found my way out of my private wilderness. As Marian stood on the little hill by the well, she knew that never again would she feel so all alone, or frightened. Charles was wrong, she thought. I don't need anyone someday, maybe, but not now. Back at the cabin she asked the children how they were coming along with their packing. "Can we take our rocks with us?" Tommy wanted to know. "And our pine cones?" Jill asked. "When we come back, I'm going to get deep in the mine with Jim," Jed planned. "I'm going to save my money to buy a camera,' Sue added. "Then I can show Kathy and the others how beautiful it is here." "And I'm going to bring yards and yards of red and white checked cotton for curtains, and some of my pictures to hang on the walls," Marian said. "And, oh, yes,' she laughed, "a new scrub board. I wore the old one pretty thin this summer." 129 FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Riverdale Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, August 19, 1962 Standing at the left in the front row: Irene C. McGregor, chorister; and Ia Rasmussen, Organist. Stake Relief Society President Myrl S. Stewart stands fourth from the right on the front row, with Della Greenwell, First Counselor, at her right, and Alice Aldrich, Second Counselor, at her left; and Secretary-Treasurer Nina Atwood, second from the right in the front row. Sister Stewart reports: "The Riverdale Stake Singing Mothers furnished the music for both sessions of stake conference on August 19, 1962. It was a glorious experience. The songs were well prepared and beautifully sung. On September 15th the Singing Mothers gave a concert. The purpose of this concert was to increase the singing skills of the members, to give the Singing Mothers an opportunity to give cultural enjoyment to others, to create an interest in beautiful music and Relief Society, and to be of service to others. 'There were sixty members who practiced twice a week all summer, furnishing their own transportation. We have an excellent director and an excellent organist. One member expressed herself as having learned more about music _ this summer than she had ever learned in her life before. They sang to an overflowing audience with special guest artists assisting. It was an outstanding musical program given free for the enjoyment of the members of the stake and created much interest in and praise for Relief Society work. Many members from. Surrounding stakes attended." 130 RED GHT Oe Se eH. Every SISTER OF | " 4 YOUR WARD 10 BE-| 2 COME A MEMBER + | a) Soh "RELIEF SOCIETY ey ae le you es: ss OR O?>: | North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Plans for Visit to Salt Lake City, June 5, 1962 Seated, front row, left to right: Valene Johansen, Second Counselor; Louise B. Johansen, President; Ruth McKinney, First Counselor; Amy Ursenbach, SecretaryTreasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Pauline Rasmussen, social science class leader; Glenda Staker, literature class leader; Ruth Encksen, Magazine representative; Ethel Ericksen, chorister; Rhoda Drage, organist; Ruby Hansen, work meeting leader. Not present when the picture was taken were Ethel Mower, theology class leader, and Emma Evans, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Johansen reports: "A day never to be forgotten was experienced June 5, 1962, by 300 Relief Society members of North Sanpete Stake when they boarded six chartered buses and several private cars bound for Salt Lake City, where they toured the Bee Hive House, Temple Square, and the Relief Society Building. At noon the group attended the Tabernacle organ recital. On the agenda at one p. M. Were a dinner and program at the Relief Society Building, catered by Beth Carlton and Mildred Lasson of Fairview. Guest speakers were President Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Pearle M. Olsen, a General Board member, who was born and reared in Mount Pleasant, and while there served as ward and stake Relief Society president. "The welcome was given by Louise B. Johansen and prayers by Nellie McAllister and Amy B. Ursenbach. 'Two violin solos were played by Irene Cannon Lloyd, a member of the General Board of Relief Society. The North Sanpete Stake Singing Mothers, directed by Ethel L. Ericksen, with Rhoda Drage as accompanist, sang 'One World,' and "When Mothers Sing,' the last number being dedicated to the late Opal L. Hermansen, who directed the Singing Mothers for many years. Valene Johansen introduced the 'goal' for the stake for the year and the theme of the program: 'Every sister of your ward to become a member of Relicf Society." The three winners in the stake poetry contest on the theme 'What My Relief Society Means to Me' were announced and the sisters read their poems: Pearle U. Winkler, first; Eda Anderson, second; and Ellis D. Cooms, third. "Recognition was given the wards with the highest number of new members, and with the greatest increase in attendance, and gifts presented to their presidents: Louise Seely, Fourth Ward; Barbara Johansen, Second Ward, Geniel Watson, Spring City. The eldest and the youngest Relief Society members in attendance were honored: Margaret Menzics, eighty-two, and Jeanie Christensen, twenty. 'The table decorations were blue and gold flowers with miniature figures of old-fashioned girls. Little bluebirds held messages of love and cheer for our wonderful organization — Relief Society. Favors were small jars of yellow hand cream tied with blue ribbons." 131 FEBRUARY 1963 Wilford Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Presents "Fun Day" May 18, 1962 Seated at the table, left to right: Helen Stringham, Grandview Second Ward; Alene Burrell, Wilford Second Ward. Standing, left to right: Marie Hopkins, Imperial Ward; Alta Hathenbruck, Grandview Ward; Renee Falkner, Imperial Second Ward; Naomi Pond, Kenwood Ward; Faye Condie, Wilford Ward; Alice Karpowitz, Kenwood Second Ward. Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake, reports: "The Wilford Stake Relief Society took suggestions given by the General Board at Conference in 1961 and had a 'Fun Day.' The day began with a demonstration on floral arrangements, followed by a demonstration on hair styling. The stake board presented a skit on 'Work Day Behavior' and cleverly revealed how the work meeting lessons on manners have helped us this year. Each ward displayed items that had been completed on work meeting day, and some hobby items were shown. "Immediately following lunch, which was served to over four hundred sisters, came the highlight of the day — a fashion show. Throughout the year a basic sewing class was taught to many of the sisters. Many of the dresses modeled were the result of this sewing instruction. We feel that much good was accomplished by this class. We intend to make this a yearly affair, and the next 'Fun Day' is already being planned. We intend to show items of interest from each lesson department. Our purpose is to reach the inactive sisters, and we feel that we are making progress in this direction." European Mission, and West European Mission Singing Mothers Present Music for the Servicemen's Conference, Berchtesgaden, Germany November 6, 7, 8, 1962 Seated, left to right: Helen Chambers, chorister; Carolyn N. Brugger, Relief Society supervisor, European Mission; Sara Tanner of the West European Mission; Zina C. Y. Brown, wife of President Hugh B. Brown; Minnie P. Burton, of the European Mission; Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission. Sister Brugger reports: ""The sisters from the L. D. S. Servicemen's organization in Europe held an inspiring Relief Society gathering in Berchtesgaden, Germany, November 6, 7, 8, 1962. The Relief Society session of this conference was conducted by Carolyn N. Brugger, with the theme 'Fellowshipping through Relief Society' being carried out. Sherley Palmer, wife of Chaplain James Palmer in England, Thelma Fetzer, from the Berlin Mission, and Grace Cullimore, from the Central British Mission gave informative talks to inspire the sisters in fellowshipping. Zina C. Y. Brown gave a spiritual talk on honoring the Priesthood and remaining strong in times of stress. "This was a wonderful conference, with 150 sisters present for the Relief Society session. They came from all over Europe, with Germany, France, Britain, Scotland, Switzerland, Austria, and Italy being represented. One sister came from as far away as Morocco. Outlying posts were represented at the conference. The Singing Mothers sang in one general session and in the Relief Society session. These sisters from distant places came together and mingled their voices under the direction of Helen Chambers." Utah Stake (Provo, Utah) Singing Mothers Furnish Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, May 13, 1962 Standing at the left in the front center row, left to right: Edna H. Williams, Education Counselor; Nellie R. Mecham, President; Florence Britsch, Work Director Counselor; Ethel R. Lewis, chorister; Rayola Van Wagenen, organist. Since this picture was taken, Florence Britsch has been released, and Clarice Sumpter sustained. 132 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Morgan Stake (Utah), Morgan Ward Presented Beautiful Painting of Nauvoo, March 17, 1962 Evadna R. Francis (right), Morgan Ward, presents a painting of Nauvoo to Emma Lou W. Bell (left), President, Morgan Ward Relief Society. Hazel F. Durrant, President, Morgan Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their anniversary party, the Morgan Ward Relief Society sisters were given a_ beautiful original painting of Nauvoo, painted and presented by Evadna R. Francis. 'The painting depicts Nauvoo as it may have been when the Relief Society was functioning during its vears of infancy, where it was first organized. 'The painting now enhances the space where it hangs in the Relief Society room, and is enjoyed by ward and stake members alike as they gather there. Sister Francis ls a busy homemaker. She has served in all the women's auxiliary organizations, both ward and stake, and is a former president of the Morgan Ward Relief Society. She has served as a visiting teacher for fourteen years, missing only one month in that time. She is a registered nurse and does part-time nursing occasionally and aids all who need her help. She taught the work meeting course for 1961 in Morgan Stake. She is a new student of art and has been studying for only two and one-half years. Of her thirty-one completed paintings, she considers 'Nauvoo' her most rewarding, probably because of her reason for creating it." Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Participate in the Chorus for Relief Society Annual General Conference, for the Semi-Annual Church Conference, and Other Occasions Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the outstanding accomplishments of the Singing Mothers of Twin Falls Stake: "Our Singing Mothers began practicing in April in preparation for the opportunity to sing at Rclief Societv Conference and General Conference. Although they spent many hours away from their families and homes, they have all expressed their gratitude for the opportunity to sing under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relicf Society, and fcel that it has been one of the greatest events of their lives. 'This group also sang for our Rclicf Socicty Convention in August, for the stake quarterly conference in September, and in Burley, with the seven stakes from this region, in a special concert under the direction of Sister Madsen. Betty Birrell is our chorister, and Wilda Carlson is organist." Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention May 17, 1962 Jennie W. Murdoch, President, Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society, reports that a large percentage of the stake visiting teachers attended the convention: "Our theme was 'Blessed art thou, visiting teacher.' The beautiful music was furnished by the Goshen Ward Singing Mothers. An original song was composed and sung for us. Our guest speaker was Sister Lavina Fugal of Pleasant Grove. She is a truly great Latter-day Saint mother, and an American Mother of a past year. She made us feel that it is a great privilege and blessing to be a visiting teacher. "There are over a thousand years of visiting teaching represented by the sisters in the picture, each person having at least thirty years of teaching and some fifty years and more. All of the sisters who have served more than thirty years were honored by First Counselor Helen Smith. A special tribute was also given to every sister who had achieved a one-hundred per cent record in her visiting teaching and in attendance at her meetings. Second Counselor Florence Lamb and Secretary-Treasurer Zelma Clayson were in charge of refreshments. At the time of the convention we did not have a stake visiting teacher message leader, but we are now fully organized.' 135 FEBRUARY 1963 Panguitch Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference Sessions, March 18, 1962 Organist Nina Steele is seated at the piano at the far right; chorister Hetta D. Reid stands at the right on the second row. Eva N. Dalton, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers presented the following selections: "When Mothers Sing," "My Prayer for Today," "Home," and "Thanks Be to God." "Practicing for this performance was done largely in the wards. Ward choristers and organists were instructed by stake leaders at stake leadership meetings. Ward leaders then spent many hours with their choruses practicing within their own wards. Only two practices on a stake basis were required for this performance." Manchester Stake (England), Rochdale Ward Visiting Teachers Honored At Opening Social, September 24, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Shirley Tiffany; Edith Kenworthy; Jessie Withington, Work Director Counselor; Elsie Wortley, President; Mary Woodruff, former president, Manchester Stake Relief Society; Olive Teale, Education Counselor; Maureen Hoyle; Irene Webber. Back row, standing, left to right: Kathleen Kenworthy; Vera Shore; Mary Mc: uade; Jean Caffrey; Monica Robinson; Lillian Fountain; Elsie Butler; Eileen Thompson; Dorothy Woodhead, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Woodruff reports: "The visiting teachers of the Rochdale Ward maintained the lead position in the stake in visiting teaching throughout the year. In their honor a chicken dinner was served to twenty-nine Relief Society sisters. A program followed the dinner, and a film on visiting teaching was shown." Dorothy Thorpe is the new president of Manchester Stake Relief Society. 136 THEOLOGY @ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 48 — Give Heed to Warnings and Trifle Not with Sacred Things Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 65:22-66 ) For First Mecting, May 1963 Objective: To realize that to redeem Zion peaceful means were to be used; that wars would plague the world until the Savior comes; that there would come a time of peace during the millennium; and to know the seriousness of blaspheming sacred things. Will and Commandment 84:44-45; D & C Commentary, page The center place for the city of 375-) Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) had been designated by revelation. Mysteries As Blessings Members of the Church desired to Latter-day Saints know that to know what they should do in remeddle in the things which have lationship to it; therefore the Lord not been revealed brings disappointmade known his purposes to his ment and sometimes loss of faith in saints. 'They were to gather to that fundamental beliefs. Speculation place if they desired to do the will does not contribute to salvation. Of the Lord. As stated in verses 22 Rationalization of the scriptures and 23 of Section 63, they were not may destroy faith. There are mysto consider this a commandment. Teries of the kingdom which may be The Lord gives revelation for the known by all who seek in faith. Benefit of all who will obey, but he (Alma 12:9-11.) 'These revealed knows that some members, if comtruths further one's salvation, for manded in all things, will bring con- _ they are essential to soul-growth. As demnation on themselves by disoone learns the truth contained in bedience. Consequently, in this the revelations, it becomes "a well revelation, he leaves it up to the inof living water, springing up unto dividual to obey his will or not to everlasting life' (D & C 63:23; obey. Those who love the Lord John 4:10-14). It should be clear will obey his will as if it were acomthat individuals differ in their mandment. (Matt. 7:21; D & C_ knowledge of gospel truths and the 137 FEBRUARY 1963 application of them in their lives. There is ample opportunity for the Latter-day Saint to learn the mysteries revealed in the scriptures. Concerning the gathering to the land of Zion, the saints were to learn this mystery: do not undertake the journey in haste, lest pestilence follow. (Ibid., 63:24.) Render Unto Cacsar During the ministry of Christ there came some who sought to trap him by asking him whether one should pay tribute to Caesar. His reply then and also in this dispensation stresses the necessity for the saint to follow the laws of the land. "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's" (Matt. 22:15-22; D & C 63:26; 58:21-22.) This truth is emphasized when one understands that Jesus is the Creator of the earth, vet he respects the laws of the land. The saints who were to go to Zion were to follow legal practice in purchasing the land, although it was to be their inheritance. Only by this means would they have any opportunity to live in peace with their neighbors. Enough opposition would come to the saints from Satan stirring up the hearts of their enemies, without their tempting them to shed blood. (Ibid., 63:25-28.) When the Lord commanded the saints to purchase the lands and there should be no shedding of blood, he was saying what had been said of old — "Thou Shalt not kill" (Exodus 20:13). In fact, what follows in the revelation is a warning to comply with the commandment to purchase the land promptly, or else they would be scourged from place to place. 138 (D&C 63:29-31.) Elder B. H. Roberts wrote the following on_ this prophecy:. And so the event turned out. The saints failed to respond with becoming promptness to the commandment to purchase the land of Zion; and all that was predicted in the revelation befell them. The passage then was a warning to the saints, not a threat directed at the old settlers of Jackson county; and if. Blood was to be shed, clearly it was to be the blood of the saints rather than that of their eneanies (A Comprehensive History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, 1:264). Wars Decreed Immediately following this prediction of distress among the saints because of neglect in following counsel, the Lord declares that the wicked in the world shall slay the wicked, for they lose his spirit by their unrighteousness. (D & C 63:32-33.) | Destruction — follows when that spirit is withdrawn from men. (2 Nephi 26:11; D & C Commentary, page 350.) Fear will come upon all men in that day because men will be fighting amongst themselves and the saints will hardly escape. (D & C 63:34-35; cf. 1:34-36.) 'The saints in 1831 and later, during the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith, were counseled to come to the land of Zion that they might not be engulfed in_ these tribulations. (D & C Commentary, page 380.) 'Those who should come to Zion were to be the faithful, serving God in righteousness and faith. It was the solemn duty of the saints to declare a warning voice to the world that judgment awaited the unrepentant, and the only escape would be through following the will of the Lord. (D & C 63:36-37.) That the saints would "hardly escape" was commented upon by the Prophet on September 29, 1839, as follows:... Explamed concerning the coming of the Son of Man; also that it is a false idea that the Saints will escape all the judgments, whilst the wicked suffer; for all flesh is subject to suffer, and "the righteous shall hardly escape;" still many of the Saints will escape, for the just shall live by faith; yet many of the righteous shall fall a prey to disease, to pestilence, etc., by reason of the weakness of the flesh, and yet be saved in the Kingdom of God. So that it is an unhallowed principle to say that such and such have transgressed because they have been preyed upon by disease or death, for all flesh is subject to death; and the Savior has said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged" (DHC IV:11). Instructions to Kirtland Saints From verses 38 to 47 in Section 63, instructions are given to members of the Church in Kirtland, Ohio. Specific directions are given that the 'Titus Billings farm should be disposed of and some were to go to Zion. ( Verses 37-39.) 'The money thus received was to be used for the purchase of land in Missouri. ( Verse 40.) Newel K. Whitney was to continue the operation of his store, and funds from this source were to be sent also. (Verses 41-44.) He was to take charge of these operations and also to act as an agent of the Church, since some members were not to go to Zion at this time. (Verses 45-46.) 'The counsel given in this revelation suggests a pattern for the future when the city of the New Jerusalem will be built. Only those who are worthy and receive a call to assemble in that area will have the privilege of participating actively in that endeavor. Only he LESSON DEPARTMENT who is faithful overcomes the world. Constancy in the work of the Lord brings the blessing of having overcome. (Verse 47.) "Blessed Are the Dead That Die in the Lord" The Latter-day Saint's concept of death is stated in these words: He that sendeth up treasures unto the land of Zion shall receive an inheritance in this world, and his works shall follow him, and also a reward in the world to come. Yea, and blessed are the dead that die in the Lord, from henceforth, when the Lord shall come, and old things shall pass away, and all things become new, they shall rise from the dead and shall not die after, and shall receive an inheritance before the Lord, in the holy city (D & C 63:48-49 ). Several important facts concerning the faithful dead are found in these verses: (1) Righteous works follow the faithful in building a mansion of glory. (2) 'The dead that die in the Lord are blessed. Death is a blessing for it opens the way to the faithful for further progression on the way to eternal life. Great blessings of communion with loved ones and the realization of having fought a good fight on the earth bring joy. (3) Those that "die in the Lord" need have no fear of the future. Uncertainty and doubt of the period after death flee from those who have and are sincerely overcoming the world. (4) The greatest blessings are not available in the spirit world because that sphere of life is only intended as temporary in preparing one for the resurrection. (5) The departed saints look forward to the second coming of Christ when they shall 139 FEBRUARY 1963 rise from the grave to obtain an inheritance in the place prepared for them. Even "the holy city" (New Jerusalem) will be a part of their inheritance. (6) The faithful dead will have a resurrected body free from disease, pain, and sorrow. This union of spirit and body in the resurrection will remain forever. Death will never again separate them. The Millennium In continuation of events following death of the body and the coming of the Lord in judgment upon the wicked, several ideas about the thousand year period of peace and righteousness on the earth are indicated. 'The present telestial condition of the earth will pass away, and a terrestrial state will prevail. Death is one of the most real events of mortality. It must come to all. Notwithstanding the millennium ls known as the time when death shall not bring sorrow, death will come when man reaches the "age of tree," which is the millennial "age of man." (D & C _ 101:29-30; 63:50.) Death dunng this period will consist of being changed immediately from mortality to resurrection. (Ibid., 63:51-52.) Look forward to "these things" — death, spirit world, resurrection, sccond coming of Christ, millennium, an inheritance in the earth. In 1831, speaking as the Lord views time, the second coming of Christ was near at hand. In the assurance that his coming is nearer than at the beginning of this dispensation, saints should follow the counsel to look forward even to "the day of the coming of the Son of Man." 140 (Ibid., 63:53.) The Lord knows that there will be many among the saints who will not be prepared by righteous living to receive the Savior when he comes. 'These have been called "foolish virgins among the wise." Lhevy are foolish because thev had the law, they knew of these things and vet this knowledge was taken lightly, in not letting the doctrine of the second coming have an influence upon their lives for repentance. 'They shall, however, be separated from the righteous, for the Lord will take judgment upon them. (Ibid., 63:53-54.) That there is great need for a call to repentance is known by all who have a knowledge of the bondage of sin which holds so many people in the world. 'The Lord is not to be mocked by those who themselves have not received the benefit of release from sin through accepting his atonement. (Ibid., 63:58; D&C Commentary, page 384.) Even though this condition exists today as a result of the apostasy, men should know that the Lord ls all-powerful and that in time all things shall be subject unto him. (Ibid., 63:59-60. ) Do Not Blaspheme Wherefore, Jet all men beware how they take my name in their lips — For behold, verily Tsay, that many there be who are under this condemmation, who use the name of the Lord, and use it in vain, having not authority. Wherefore, let the church repent of their sins, and I, the Lord, will own them; otherwise they shall be cut off (D & C 63:61-63). T'o blasphemce is to speak -irreverently of God or sacred things. The name of Deitv should be held in the greatest respect. To take the name of the Lord in vain has been condemned from the _ beginning. (Exodus 20:7; Levit. 22:32; Deut. 5:11.) Ancient Israel understood that to curse or blaspheme Deity was an offense so serious that death was the penalty. (Levit. 24:16.) But how far has the world departed from the divine injunction that the Lord's name should be used reverently? The vulgar person often delights in blaspheming the name of the Lord, consciously or designedly, to verify his oath or word. In commenting upon this practice of the world, President Joseph Fielding Smith has said:. Some individuals have become so profane that it appears almost impossible for them to speak two or three sentences without the emphasis — as they think — of a vulgar or blasphemous oath.... A person is known as much by his language as he is by the company he keeps.. Ifow strange it is that some people, and good people at that, think that to use some cxpression involving the namc_ of the Lord, adds interest, wit, or powcr to their stories! How oftcn this is seen in the moving pictures, even in shows that otherwise are commendable.... Above all other peoples on the carth, the Latter-day Saints should hold in the utmost sacredness and reverence all things that arc holy. The people of the world have not been trained as we have been in such matters, notwithstanding there are many honest, devout, and refined pcople in the world. But we have the guidance of the HToly Spirit and the revelations of the Lord, and He has solemnly taught us in our own day our duty in relation to all such things (Improvement Era, July, 1941, page 525). Sacred Things Made Light Of The people of the world are not the only ones who make light of sacred things. In the days of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet some members of the Church did so, and there are members today who do not sense its seriousness. 'The word of the Lord in the scriptures, the principles, ordinances, and practices of the Church are to be spoken of with care, for they are sacred. Mockery of sacred truths is blasphemy in the sight of the Lord. 'The Nephites in the pride of their hearts sinned grievously and lost their strength for the Spirit withdrew from them. One of their sins was "making a mock of that which was sacred" (Helaman 4:11-13). Two thoughts emerge from the truth that man is not to mock sacred truths. In the first place, the person who professes belief and practice and at the same time does not live the principles, is making light of sacred things. All should determine that the best life is the life of conformance to God's will. The second thought is the too prevalent poking fun at or jesting about Church teachings and practices. An editorial in a Church publication written by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve poses 'the following pertinent questions as well as others on this point. How many people joke about the Word of Wisdom when in social groups? How many joke about sobriety or the lack of it? How many make light of our teachings on modest dress, and flaunt their standards by persistent violations? How many make light of the dress requirements of those who go to the temple? What is our attitude toward the 141 FEBRUARY 1963 Sabbath? Do we make light of it, and at times do we make fun of it as we proceed to violate it? There follows the admonition to self-examine our attitudes on these matters, and a stern reminder of the seriousness of trifling with sacred things: The Lord will not be made light of. He will not be laughed at, nor ridiculed, nor ignored by those who are under obligation to him. Self-examination on these matters can be a wholesome thing. And self-determination will be likewise. Determination of what? Determine whether we want to be in the good graces of the Lord or not. Whether we want to be "fence straddlers'' or not. Whether we want to carry water on both shoulders, or not. Whether we want to be sincere or not. Whether we are willing to compromise our principles or not. Whether we are willing to sin a little for business sake or for social prestige.... If we trifle with sacred things, we not only disobey, but we ridicule as well.. We may do it thoughtlessly, you say. But that very thoughtlessness is itself an evidence of lack of interest, lack of concern about it all. It is itself proof positive that we are taking lightly the things of God, that we therefore trifle with them. Without sincerity there is no salvation, regardless of any show of obedience (The Church News Section, Deseret News, March 29, 1958). Now is the day to determine to whom obedience will be given. If we have been negligent in the past, the Lord is gracious and kind to the repentant. These things remain to overcome through patience, that such may receive a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, otherwise, a greater condemnation (D & C 63:66). Remember that that which cometh from above is sacred, and must be spoken with care, and by constraint of the Spirit; and in this there is no condemnation, and ye receive the Spirit through prayer; wherefore, without this there remaineth condemnation (Ibid., 63:64). Questions for Discussion 1. What does it mean that the saints will hardly escape the destructions of the last days? 2. Give six poimts about the faithful dead as developed from Section 63:48-49. 3. Discuss: Those who love the Lord will obey his will. Little Lights Hannah C. Ashby I do not stand as a beacon light On a lofty mountain high, To guide the world of men in flight As they travel through the sky, But a little light in a lowly place Can give a message of cheer, And bring a smile to a troubled face From love light shining near. 142 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 48 — "Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, May 1963 Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems. The scriptures are filled with promises that those who remain steadfast and faithful to the Lord's commandments shall be protected and preserved. David the Psalmist said, "the Lord... Forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved forever' (Psalms 37:28). The great general and prophet Moroni in the Book of Mormon declared, "God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him" (Alma 44:4). There are both physical and spiritual aspects to the Lord's promises and assurances that the faithful will be guarded, saved, and _preserved. In some _ instances, the faithful will be protected and preserved against physical harm. This was the meaning of this promise given by Moroni. More frequently, however, this promise has had a spiritual rather than a physical meaning. The statement given above by David had this more enduring meaning. He spoke of the faithful people being preserved not just in this life but "forever," It is this broader meaning that the Savior emphasized when he said, "Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it" (Luke 17:33). Obviously, when one loses his life, as indicated in this scripture, he is not preserved and _ protected physically; yet as the Savior has promised, if one loses himself, and even his life, in the service of others, and thereby in the Lord's service, he preserves his soul and gains eternal life. Over and over again the Savior emphasized the divine fact that saving one's soul is infinitely more important than preserving one's life. "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36). To be preserved in a_ spiritual sense means to be delivered from evil; to be shielded by the Lord's spirit; to be secure and firm in our convictions of the truth. It means to be sustained and upheld in righteousness and to possess one of the Lord's choice gifts, the blessing of peace of mind. 143 FEBRUARY 1963 Temple Bailey, in an impressive story, tells about a young mother who set her foot on the path of life and wondered if the way would be long and hard. Her guide said to her, "Yes, the way is hard and you will be old before you reach the end of it, but the end will be better than the beginning." In this story the young mother faced her problems with faith and confidence, but as her children grew, illness came into their lives and there was sorrow, and the way was stormy and dark. 'The children were filled with fear and uncertainty, but they came to their mother with confidence and she covered them with her protective mantle of love. Then the mother said to her guide, "These days are even better than the brightness of the sun, for now my children have learned courage." This story continues with the experiences of trouble and _ affliction through which the mother and her children learned the true meaning of faith and love and the need for the constant assurance of the Lord's protective spirit. 'hey learned that with faithfulness through life's experiences, both bitter and sweet, the Lord helped them to develop the qualities which preserved _ their spiritual strength, and thus they came to realize that the end was better than the beginning. President Hugh B. Brown said: Men sometimes labor under the false impression that reverses, disappointments, tragedies come only as the result of sin and disobedience.... The trial perhaps may come... To teach some of the great lessons of life. And so we must remember that the winds blow and _ the rains beat upon the house that is built upon the rock. The promise is not exemption from the storm but that they who shall so build shall have strength to withstand it (Eternal Quest, pp. 247-248). We will not be spared from the problems of life and we may not be spared from some of its tragedies. But, the Lord will give us his protective spirit as a_ shield. His strength will become our strength, and, if we are truly faithful, we have no need to fear, for we can have the Lord's comforting spirit to be with us and his assurance that our souls will be preserved throughout this life and throughout eternity. NOBLE THOUGHTS Think noble thoughts always. They are the seeds of noble deeds, and the flowers that they bring make for happy hours and sweet memories. —Pauline Bell 144 WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 8 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Dr. Virginia F'. Cutler For Second Meeting, May 1963 Objective: To show the importance of home influence on the training and growth of children. OR this last discussion we shall have a symposium. The leader and three members will be seated at a table in front of the group. Each member will be prepared to make a short talk about one of the topics listed below. The role of the leader is to introduce each speaker and her subject and watch the time. She then makes' a summary statement of the main points of the discussion and invites further discussion from the group. 'Topics for the symposlum: 1. Preparation for marriage begins in the cradle. 2. Need for work should be part of children's training. 3. Work is essential to happiness. 4. Good conditions will induce good work. Our greatest assurance that an engaged couple will be able to establish a happy home which will be a good training ground for children is that each one has come from a happy home. It is here that children first learn to love or hate, to work or be idle, to take responsibility or to be irresponsible, to be honest or dishonest, to live democratically or to be tyrants. The young couple might ask, how does this training begin? Here we must distinguish between two kinds of language: the language of the feelings and the language of words. 'The first is the more potent influence, and it begins with the newborn babe. John, the newborn, understands his mother when she cuddles him close and sings soft tones of love as she nurses him. He doesn't know the meaning of words, but he knows his mother's love. 'This language is so strong that her fears and tensions as well as her love can be communicated to him instantaneously. A child first learns to be part of a team through the language of the feelings and gradually learns that he has some part to play in having satisfying relationships with his family. His coos and smiles bring different rewards than screams and tantrums, and he learns the meth- 145 FEBRUARY 1963 od most effective for getting what he wants. If parents are consistent and work together in training this child, he can be taught the routines of the household, who does what, and what he must do to be an acceptable member, long before he understands words. Yes, this is the beginning of the training period that takes at least twenty years to prepare him for starting a home of his own. Can you see your child ten years from now, twenty years from now, fifty years from now, or on the path of eternal progress? If you can, and if you appreciate the uniqueness of this child, something of his potentiality, his capabilities, his special strength and weaknesses, you can guide him and instill in him the principles of righteous living that will aid him to solve the problems that he will meet along the way. This is a day-by-day process whereby the values you cherish, what you do, and how you feel will be communicated more potently through the feelings than through anything that you may Say. Work and the need for everyone to stand on his own feet and even-. Tually pay his own way is an important ingredient in successful family living. Don't do anything for the child that he can do for himself is a good adage. Give him clothes that he can button, shoes that he can tie, food that he can eat with his own effort, and don't expect perfection. Let him make his own toys from boxes and spools and blocks of wood; teach him to put them away when it is time for the nap or the bath or the dinner. Let him help stir the cookies and 146 make the bread. Let him help set the table and wash the dishes. As one job is learned something new must be brought into the picture to keep the creative impulse alive and working at its best. As children become mature enough to take responsibility, give them enough of it to make it a challenge. Regular duties rotated week by week, with some changes and additions, can become the rule. Boys and girls can make beds, clean floors, wash dishes, paint walls, prepare food, mow the lawn, wash clothes, plant the garden, weed, skin onions, feed the chickens, and do many other jobs. After any of these jobs is done, children should be taught to clean up after themselves. There is a psychological value in cleaning up after you finish a job. When you have put the lawn mower and the grass cutters away, you know you have completed something, and you have prepared the way for starting out fresh the next time. What are the conditions that induce good work? Good family relationships, where there is trust, confidence, and love, come first; and then other values should be considered. Every person needs some private spot to call his own. It might be a box for treasures pushed under the bed, a dresser drawer, or part of a closet, and everyone must respect this spot as personal property and not trespass. Privacy also extends to the need to be alone on occasions. If a person wants to be alone, let him go to his room, shut the door, and be alone; and, let everyone respect this need. Time for personal medita- tion, contemplation, reading, and praying can bring forth new insight and new understanding. Self-expression through creative hobbies may result in a_ better world tomorrow, if children are allowed to explore and find some special interest. As early as they are old enough to hold a crayon, they should be allowed to draw. Sand, clay, wood, simple tools, and a place to work are essential. 'The place might be the kitchen table, in a special room, or outside, the important thing is to make provision for cultivating special interests. The seeds planted will pay great dividends throughout life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Children need friends and should be allowed to have them come to their homes. 'They need to feel that they have a beautiful home that they are proud to share with their friends. They need cultural and educational stimulation through various family activities, and, most important of all, they need the strength that comes through worship, through the love of God, and of keeping his commandments. 'This spiritual side of family living will provide the iron rod by which members may find support and _assistance as they move along the path of eternal family life. LITERATURE The New Birth of Freedom e America's Literature Lesson 40 — The Challenge of Walt Whitman Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 538-576). For Third Meeting, May 1963 Objective: To attempt a sympathetic approach to Whitman, that we may experience further insight into his greatness. OST critics now accept Whitman as America's greatest poet, both as spokesman for the American temperament within her own boundaries and to the world community. From the early decades of Whitman's poetic fame, he was well known abroad, and more critical studies of his work have appeared in England, France, Germany, and Denmark than in his own country. As with Poe and Henry David Thoreau, his universal qualities were first acclaimed abroad. Yet all Whitman's roots are in Nineteenth-Century America and in the traditions and cultures which, wn turn, produced it. In one sense ex- 147 FEBRUARY 1963 tremely provincial, he transcends limits of time and place to achieve true universality. Whitman's Outward Life The second of nine children, "Walt" was born on a Long Island, New York, farm in 1819. His strong, warm-hearted mother came from an easy-going prosperous Dutch family; his father, heir to family wealth which had been lost, made desperate attempts to provide for his growing family. Conditions did not improve when the Whitmans moved to Brooklyn, New York. Leaving school at the age of twelve, he worked as office boy and typesetter, but additional education came through extensive reading and experience. He learned the printing trade, was an_ itinerant schoolteacher for four years, and, from 1853 to 1855, he was a carpenter. He edited many journals and was active in the Democratic party until by 1846 he became editor of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, a newspaper of some influence. In his editorials he was aggressively patriotic, supporting enthusiastically the expansion into the vast American west. An idealistic Jeffersonian he would rather have a rich average population than a rich government. He believed that moral reform begins in each man's heart and that all enduring principles, democracy included, must be constantly defended. In 1848 he left the Daily Eagle for New Orleans, Louisiana, taking his fifteen-year-old brother Thomas Jefferson Whitman with him. Here he worked as an editor for four months before returning home to 148 WALT WHITMAN _ age continue newspaper editing. This was the only trip he made past the eastern seaboard until he was sixty. When, in 1862, his brother George Washington Whitman, who was serving im the Civil War, was wounded, Walt went to Virginia to nurse him. For three years he spent so much of his time as a volunteer nurse in the field hospitals that his health broke. He was appointed clerk in the Department of the Interior in 1865 and, later, received an appointment in the Attorney General's office where he worked for nine years. He lectured on the life of Abraham Lincoln each year, and from royalties and gifts was able to buy a house in Camden, New _ Jersey, where he lived unmarried. In 1873, a stroke caused partial paralysis, and for the next ten years his health was not good, and sometimes he was in actual want, a condition remedied by friends once it was discovered. He died in 1892, at the age of 73. The New Nation's New Poet During the late 1840's and early 1850's Whitman became increasingly aware of the unique destiny his country was to fulfill. Never had such a combination of cultures existed before, free from the withering restraints of entrenched privileges. Never had the common man been so favored, so near to achieving those high goals of which mankind had always dreamed; never had man's potential divinity seemed so near attainment. 'The Americans, of all nations, at any time upon the earth have probablv the fullest poetical nature. The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem," he wrote in 1855. He LESSON DEPARTMENT believed fervently that there is "nothing in the known universe more divine than men and women and the woman equal with the man." Whitman made equality the keystone of great poetry: Come to us on equal terms. Only then can you understand us. We are no better than you. What we enclose you enclose, what we enjoy you may enjoy (Preface to Leaves of Grass). With rare sensitivity Whitman sought to catch the overtones of all facets of life in vigorous, expanding, young America. In "I Hear America Singing' he records in poetic symbol the varied songs that he hears: I HEAR AMERICA SINGING I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear, Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be, blithe and strong, The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam, The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work, The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck, The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as he stands, The wood-cutter's song, the ploughboy's on his way in the morning, or at noon intermission or at sundown, The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work, or of the girl sewing or washing, Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else, The day what belongs to the day — at night the party of young fellows, robust, friendly, Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs. "Leaves of Grass'' His first volume of poetry, entitled Leaves of Grass, was published by Whitman in 1855. It was a large paged, thin volume, comprising a dozen untitled poems preceded by a long preface. Odd in style and format, it was original in mood, thought, wit, and wisdom. In the prose preface Whitman explained what he "was up to" — a poetic revolution. He felt, perhaps even more than did Emerson, that (From Leaves of Grass) the new Nation needed a "new voice" to be the spokesman for all America. Whitman attempted to become that spokesman. He was convinced that this "new voice" should use new and original poetic forms. He therefore rejected the traditional forms of English verse: regular meters, rhyme, stanza patterns, elaborate similies, and allusions to the classics and Middle Ages. Fiver since Leaves of Grass ap- 149 FEBRUARY 1963 peared, it has aroused almost every type of response among Whitman's ever-increasing audience, but rarely if ever indifference. Both form and content of Whitman's poetry have been too revolutionary, too new, to move a first reader merely to mild appreciation or scorn; the reaction is usually strong, and for a complexity of reasons. Sometimes repeated readings over the years have but intensifed the original response; sometimes first impressions have changed. When now we may come to Whitman without opportunity to allow his versions of reality to be matured within us through time, what will our reactions be? Here lies substantial challenge indeed. To the second edition of Leaves of Grass, which appeared in 1856, Whitman included many additional poems. In fact, throughout his life he continued to supplement, rewrite, and revise the contents of the volume. Although individual poems or groups of poems were often published separately, they were finally incorporated in the parent volume.. "One's-Self I Sing," which has commonly been placed first in this collection, sums up the general theme of the poems. Here Whitman announces that he sings of "modern man," the individual common man in a democratic society. ONE'S-SELF I SING One's-self I sing, a simple separate person, Yet utter the word Democratic, the word En-Masse. Of physiology from top to toe I sing, Not physiognomy alone nor brain alone is worthy for the Muse, I say the Form complete is worthier far, The Female equally with the Male I sing. Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power, Cheerful, for freest action form'd under the laws divine, The Modern Man I sing. Whitman was a great lover of nature, animals, cities, his America, his fellow humans of all races and ranks, and his fancy — the magnificently developed tool which enabled him to communicate this love. Good-bye my Fancy! He loved his poetic self-image so fully that he gave his life to its fulfillment. A large key to unraveling the complexity that is Whitman ls found in the final poem in Leaves of Grass: Farewell dear mate, dear love! I'm going away, I know not where, Or to what fortune, or whether I may ever see you again, So Good-bye my Fancy. Long indeed have we lived, slept, filter'd, become really blended into one; Then if we die we die together, (yes, we'll remain onc,) If we go anywhere we'll go together to meet what happens.... Now finally, — Good-bye — and hail! My Fancy. 150 The joy of merely being alive has no greater exponent than Whitman. Always he praised a_ vigorous, healthy body, vibrant, free and unafraid. He loved to walk alone at night in nature, best of all along the beach with its booming surf. He swam often, bathed regularly, and was so spotless with his casual LESSON DEPARTMENT white shirt open at the throat, that people meeting him for the first time often received the impression that he had just bathed, so cleanly and serenely did he glow. Throughout his life he regarded evil as a sickness and praised cleanness and ruddy health: O to make the most jubilant song! Full of music — full of manhood, womanhood, infancy! Full of common employments — full of grain and trees. — "A Song of Joy" Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road, Healthy, free, the world before me, The long brown path before me leading wherever I choose. — "Song of the Open Road"... I loved well those cities, loved well the stately and rapid river, The men and women I saw were all near to me. I too lived, Brooklyn of ample hills was mine, I too walk'd the streets of Manhattan island, and bathed in the waters around it. Flow on, river! Flow with the flood-tide, and ebb with the ebb-tide! Frolic on, crested and scallop-edg'd waves! Gorgeous clouds of the sunset! Drench with your splendor me, or the men and women generations after me! Whitman's senses were so acutely alert that his sensate images are — "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" (Text, page 548) unforgettable, and are central to his narrative gift: Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full-dazzling, Give me juicy autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard.... Give me fresh corn and wheat, give me serene-moving animals teaching content. Thinking of Whitman as a poet dedicated to the vigor of life, it may seem strange to find that death is _the theme of his masterpieces. Yet have not love and life in all great poetry embraced the realitv of death? Representative are the following: "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bleom'd" (text, page — "Give Me the Splendid Silent Sun" (Text, page 555) 559), "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" (text, page 551), and "Passage to India" (text, page 563). The Civil War mnpened Whitman's compassion for his courageous brothers on both sides of the conflict. No one has depicted this great and heroic conflict more truly: 151 FEBRUARY 1963 RECONCILIATION (1865) Word over all, beautiful as the sky, Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time be utterly lost, That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly softly wash again, and ever again, this soil'd world; For my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead, I look where he lies white-faced and still in the coffin — I draw near, Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face in the coffin. (Text, page 558) Man is most truly himself when he is in mystical communion with something larger than himself, and above him:.. When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room, How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself, In the mystical moist might-air, and from time to time, Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars. — "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer" Whitman's Poetic Art Believing that poetry exists "to indicate the path between reality and the soul," Whitman felt the poet's first great function was to bring the reader, through his senses, an experiencing of the simple, good, natural world about him, as evidence of God's universal presence. And if poetry was to do this, it must be that which it is, hence its necessary simplicity, directness, complete frankness and honesty, as opposed to traditional structures, subjects, ornamentation, and _ar- (Text, page 555) tificiality which Whitman found in all other poets. There are those who feel that Whitman's poetic art is a mystery — unexplainable; that his way with words, the power of his phrasing is not to be defined, yet these qualities are characteristic of all great poets. In his expressive lines we find such freshness and originality as are to be found in Shakespeare, in Dante, and Homer. From his "Leaves of Grass' witness the impact of these following first lines of poems: I celebrate myself. I sing the body electric.... There was a child went forth every day. Weapon, shapely, naked, wan!... Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road. A woman waits for me. Out of the cradle endlessly rocking.... I hear America singing. A noiseless, patient spider... 152 Yet Whitman often failed to sustain the miracle of his first lines. Frequently he seemed unconcerned with the architectural aspect of the complete poem, and he often beLESSON DEPARTMENT comes tiresome through an endless cataloguing of details. Some of his poems, however, are flawless in their organization. Such is A NOISELESS PATIENT SPIDER A noiseless patient spider, I mark'd where on a little promontory it stood isolated, Mark'd how to explore the vacant vast surrounding, It launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself, Ever unreeling them, ever tirelessly speeding them. And you O my soul where you stand, Surrounded, detached, in measureless oceans of space, Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throwing, seeking the spheres to connect them, Till the bridge you will need be form'd, till the ductile anchor hold, Till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere, O my soul. Conclusion Not even Poe has provoked as much controversy as to his true identity as has Whitman. More than fifty book-length studies have been written in attempting to explain the mystery of his life and its relation to his poems. No one critic has succeeded in saying the last word. Collectively, however, they do succeed in proving the diversity of response to so complex a genius as Whitman. Always he has been the center of controversy. Thus to know the true Whitman becomes increasingly difficult. The man who is Leaves of Grass is indeed a reality, just as Homet's Ulysses, Shakespeare's Hamlet, and Melville's Ahab are real, within that realm of the imaginative recreation of life, which is literature. The enduring real Whitman is his poems, which may or may not have anv relation to his documented personal life. The Whitman who is (Text, page 569) real and great is fictional and poetic, just as the real Dickens is Scrooge and 'Tiny Tim who were born within the inner self but were never the actual Dickens. Only to the degree that the poet Whitman image has become a friendly one, and thus eligible to receive a sympathetic hearing, is his poetry at all useful to us. Only then have we prepared ourselves for the second step — to allow him to come to us in flashes through poems chosen at random which may fairly indicate him at his best. Only when we are freed from prejudices within ourselves, as we approach poetry so frighteningly new as Whitman's or in relation to the person who was Whitman, are we enabled to accept Whitman's poetic power and the greatness of the poems which are his four masterpieces: "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry," "Out of the Cradle End- 153 FEBRUARY 1963 lessly Rocking," "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd," and "Passage to India." Only when we are thus candid and free, when we no longer blame Whitman for his bold poetic freedoms and creative newness, but, instead, reconsider our own reliance on the security of tradition, then and then only can a sympathetic reading of him give us further insight into his creative greatness. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Granting that America was built on a new idea in lieu of a tradition, discuss the comparative merits of having such ideas expressed in a new literary form. 2. "I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear.'' Never before nor since have these American carols been heard and communicated as they were by Whitman. Really, did he hear America singing, or himself? Discuss the relationship — between the "'singer" and the song. 3. How do you account for Whitman's great influence abroad and his comparative neglect at home? SOCIAL SCIENCE @ Divine Law and Church Government perl - nnlertiem "6 (Ea cieeke FComasere a Bal, Foundation of Church Wwovernment Lesson 7 — Summary Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, May 1963 Objective: Church government. To focus the attention on the importance of divine law as the basis for By these things we know that there is a God in heaven, who ls infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them (D & C 20:17). Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee (Job 22:21). HE objective of our course of study is to understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children. In our lessons, we have been examining the evidence of God's interest in man's welfare. 'This can be seen in the rules of conduct, personal directions, and basic principles of living that God has presented to man to guide, encourage, and lead him into the expression of 154 his finest qualities. When man has been able to recognize the wisdom of God and relate the values of the divine law to his own life and accomplishments, and do this of his own choice, he then has begun to move up the scale of progress toward the objective of his Creator. The Divine Law 'l'here can be little, if any, meaning to any person in the above state- ment unless that person has a firm conviction that God lives, that man is his spiritual offspring, and that there is divine purpose in the creation of man. With the faith necessary for such a conviction, any person can recognize the wisdom of God expressed in divine law. He can also understand that divine law operates through the Priesthood of God for man's welfare, and that Church government is Priesthood in action. These things being true, the kingdom of God or his Church is where and when the divine law operates through individuals possessing the authority to act in his name upon the earth for the happiness and welfare of mankind. The Challenge to Man In the creation the earth was made for man as a place for his development. In the command given to Adam and Eve to subdue the earth and have dominion over every living thing, there was a challenge for the development of both physical and mental powers. The earth was so organized that every temporal need could be obtained through the application of effort and_ intelligence. At the same time, man was challenged spiritually. If he could keep in tune with the source of light and truth by which the earth was organized, his task of subduing the earth and his personal perfection would be made easier and with more rapid strides. Directions for Successful Living Man was not placed upon the earth and left without help. God provided him with direction for successful living, through the law by which the plan of life and salvation LESSON DEPARTMENT may realize its purpose. The Father further assisted by commissioning man with his power and authority, the Holy Priesthood. Through this power, continued revelation from heaven would clarify and expand the law of God. This assistance would be available provided the Priesthood was honored, for divine law is the way of truth and light. Those who deny God deal in darkness, for the light of divine revelation is shut off and thev have no guidance but the reasoning of their own minds. The divine law is plain, simple, and concise. It is the expression of God's will concerning the behavior of his children in their relationship with each other. Divine law establishes man's relationship to God and clarifies his duties and responsibilities to his Creator. Man is taught to love God with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. 'The second foundation law is to love his neighbor as himself. The law goes on to say that on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. "... By love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Gal. 5:13-14). The Importance of Choice The essentials of the divine law were revealed to Adam and have been with man in each dispensation to the present time. All mankind is given the eternal heritage of free choice. The divine law is to be established in the hearts of men by teaching, persuasion, long-suffering and love unfeigned. Love is the motivation of divine law. Force is the tool of Satan and has no place in the divine plan. 'To enjoy the 155 FEBRUARY 1963 blessing of exaltation one must know the truth, receive the light of Christ, and choose righteousness of his own free will. The Need for Repentance From the beginning, there have been those who chose darkness rather than light. Each dispensation saw this percentage increase until the masses of mankind are outside the divine law. In each dispensation the Lord has organized his Church on the basis of the divine law revealed to Adam. Wherever the Church government has been organized, it has been done through men holding the Priesthood of God. The great responsibility of the Church is to teach repentance and baptism. The ones to whom the call to repentance is directed are those who 1. Fail to recognize God the Eternal Father, 2. Refuse to accept the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and his redeeming mission, 3. Set their hearts on the things of this world, 4. Aspire to the honors of men, 5s. Not knowing God contend against him, 6. In short, become selfish, greedy, and give freedom to their carnal desires and appetites. The Light of Truth The following are essential teachings from the divine law that have been available to mankind from Adam's day on: 1. The reality of God and his availability to man, 2. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that his mission is to redeem mankind, 3. That the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is a member of the Godhead and the special wit- 156 ness of the Father and the Son to mankind. He is a _ continuous source of light and truth to the world. 4. The acceptance of revelation as a continuous flow of the divine wisdom to enlighten mankind, 5. The acceptance of love as the motivating force in the gospel of Jesus Christ and in man's achievement, 6. The personal responsibility for growth and advancement, the eternal challenge of mental and spiritual development. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D & C 93:36). These teachings are basic to the proper understanding of man's relationship to God, and his place and purpose on this earth. The divine law leaves nothing to chance. 'The teachings are not based on ignorance, superstition, or fear. 'They require of man the highest motives for action (love of God and love of fellow men), personal responsibility for achievement (the freedom of choice), and unlimited development of mental capacity (perfection, with Christ the example). In following divine law, man would be able to remove the most serious obstacles to progress (fear, ignorance, and superstition) and at the same time be relieved of the dissipation of much energy (trial and error method of arriving). 'The nearer one lives to the divine influence the freer the flow of inspiration and_ revelation and, consequently, the more light and truth available. Thus more truth can be discovered and accepted, and as truth and light increase, the less influence evil can have over the possessor of light and truth. Divine Law and Man's Earthly Progress Man had a common origin. Adam and Eve, the first parents, were placed here by the wisdom and power of God. 'There was reason and purpose in the creation and the reason and purpose applied to all men for they are all his children. The plan included freedom of choice, which, in order to be effective, required a forgetting of the experience in the spirit world; it included the presence of opposition so that freedom of choice could be effective. 'The first man was placed in a stimulating environment, being permitted to walk and talk with God and challenged with the idea of using the natural resources of this earth to satisfy his needs. Thus, man was imbued from heaven with the feeling of discontent, to find out, to investigate the unknown, to seek the answers to all perplexities of life arising from temporal, intellectual and spiritual experience. All men did not follow the revelations of the divine will. In time the masses of the earth lost this contact. They pulled away from the teachings of God, they lost the leadership of the Holy Priesthood and the direct influence of God in their activities. However, the inspiration of heaven has always been available to the children of men. Being the spirit children of God and created in his image provides the setting that makes all men reach up, putting forth effort to improve their status. For everv man that comes into the world is lighted by the light of Christ which is the light of truth. (See D & C 84:44-46.) Today, for certain, we live in the LESSON DEPARTMENT fulness of times. God has spoken to the earth restoring his Priesthood. The government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. The Church is destined to bring to a completion the plan of life and salvation. In a material sense man has reached a pinnacle of discovery and invention. Built on the accumulation of the culture of the past, inspired by the Spirit of light and truth, there have developed new and fabulous means and methods of meeting man's needs and in solving his problems. Speed, power, and precision dominate our mechanized world. Man's greatest lag is in human relations and understanding. This is the mission of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bring to the world the love of God and consideration of and love for mankind. Divine Law and Eternal Progress Reference is frequently made to this life as one phase in the plan of life and salvation. 'The plan was presented by the Father to the great council in heaven. 'There great decisions were made. The eternal principle of free agency was expressed. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, volunteered his service and sacrifice to fulfill the plan of the Father for the redemption of mankind. The plan made earth life the experiment in agency, discipline, development of intelligence, and for eternal progress by obedience to the divine law given to regulate human relationships. The plan of life includes eternity. It is God's plan and he is eternal. The law governing the plan is God's law and therefore is eternal. Still 157 FEBRUARY 1963 more important is the fact that Priesthood, which is the power to act in God's name, must be present to carry out the plan. Progress on earth or in eternity is vitally connected with the powers of the Priesthood. Fulness of the Priesthood is the basis of eternal progress. Priesthood, _ therefore, takes on great significance. It is authority to administer the ordinances, ceremonies, and establish duties of the Church; it is more than a system, it is creative power of God given to men to create, devise, and initiate movements, institutions and activities that serve the welfare of Luman souls and that will open the way to significant, challenging growth activities on the part of the possessors. Priesthood implies progress as well as preservation and conservation. Men holding the Priesthood who cannot see the dynamic creative significance of Priesthood cannot possibly magnify their Priesthood and calling (Lambert: Foundations of Religious Life, page 129). The plan of life and salvation is one of progress, constantly moving up or toward the perfection of Jesus Christ. Divine Law and Church Government In the beginning of our lessons, we accepted the definition of divine as that which pertains to God. Dtvine law is the mind and will of God in reference to the welfare of his children on earth. 'These laws have to do with regulation and direction of the relationships of mankind. Divine law is a way of life as defined by the Creator which provides the greatest challenge for achievement to the minds of men. It was the divine law that was given to Adam as the direction for subduing the earth. And being the children of God, even though mankind 158 generally strayed away from the direct contact with the divine influence, it is the divine factor of the light of truth that gives light to every man, that has had a direct bearing on the intellectual and material progress that mankind has achieved. Generally speaking, government ls the exercise of administrative powers. The basis of government is found in the agreement and laws men accept to define the powers of government. Divine law or the wisdom of God is the warp and woof of Church government. And Church government is the Priesthood in action. Through our review of the dispensations of time, we have noted the consistency with which divine law operates. We have seen that the Lord does not do anything except through his commissioned servants. Truly his is a house of order. In a similar manner, we have noted that there is purpose in the creation of man and the earth. The major point of the purpose ls to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. The divine law comes from God who is eternal; it functions in this life as a directing force, helping men to achieve the fulness of their potentialities here and now and at the same time preparing them so that they can feel at home in the presence of God throughout eternity. Divine law, then, is the foundation upon which the government of the Church (the Priesthood in action) is established. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What is the first essential to under standing the divine mission of Jesus Christ? 2. What is the difference in motivation between the laws of God and the laws of men? 3. What part does the divine influence play in the intellectual development of the people of the world? 4. Does membership in the Church of Christ guarantee the blessings of God? Justify your answer. What is the advantage intellectually in being baptized a member of the Church and being in tune with the Holy Ghost? 6. What is the main purpose of our existence in this world? The six previous lessons, and all of the references given for each lesson. - & - Margery S. Stewart Down on the beach Anemones are clinging To little pools of sea, To rocks where tides are bringing Coral and leis. Children come dancing, With mischievous toes They touch the sea flowers To watch them close In a delicate shower. We are too tall to bend; We cannot really see How anemones open So industriously. Too tall to be sand-sized And be lost under Anemone fountains Or a child's wonder. LESSON DEPARTMENT SACRED MUSIC FOR WOMEN'S THREE PART CHORUSES ( ) ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 ( ) AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner _ -0-- ------.---20eeoe-.30 ( ) COME UNTO HIM "MESSIAH'—Handel.20 ( ) COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen -.20 ( ) GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen - -25 ( ) IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen...25 ( ) INCLINE YOUR EAR—Wilkes...25 ( ) LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 ( ) LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.20 ( ) HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle 25 ( ) MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach ooooo cone ee ec eeeecee eee.25 ( ) UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated 1; above. {1 On Approval [] Charge i [J] Money Enclosed '! 1 i Nome oon cecececccccccencencennensncececececece ea a a a a ae ee ee a eS AASNAILLA TAHA 15 E. Ist South! Salt Lake City 11, Utah | 5 ye > 5 | GE GR aEENT Go SEE a wee aoe ae Gee ae GE ew EE EE See ee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee eee em 159 One Hundred Mrs. Acnges Brack McCiLeop Alhambra, California Ninety-seven Mrs. EvizaBetu JANE T'aytor McINTIRE Rexburg, Idaho Ninety-five Mrs. Marinpba C. PETERSON Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Mary Caro. TinE MortTENSEN CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado Ninety-two Mrs. Marcaret MevissaA WHITNEY CHANDLER Springfield, Idaho Mrs. Mary ExizasetuH Davis Horrin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cole FRANCOM Tremonton, Utah MarInDA SNOW FRANDSEN Provo, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Loretta 'TUCKER JOHNSON Oakland, California Mrs. ExvizABETH MALINDA PADGETT Boone Brunswick, Georgia Mrs. RacuHeL THomas PETERSON Ogden, Utah Mrs. CHarLoTTE Woop NIcHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Jutia ANN REBECCA ANELL Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. Lucy Metvina GOULDING ROWLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Home Catherine B. Bowles This cozy little cottage Is nestled beneath the trees; The bright sun shines upon it It is cooled by gentle breeze. The flowers grow around it, In this quiet shady bower Honeysuckle sends its breath To sweeten the twilight hour. 160 This precious little cottage, Built with tenderness and care, Will always be remembered With memories all can share. Peace surrounds this little house Where faith and love are given; The spirit of the gospel shines Which makes it such a haven. e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00.0000 ee 35 150 to 300 miles 0.00.00000. 39 300 to 600 miles 000000 45 C 600 to 1000 miles ecco 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.000000.64 1400 to 1800 miles 00000000000 76 Over 1800 miles 2 0000020002020.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Hawaiian Tours February, June, and November, 1963 Orient Tour leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 HAWAIIAN TOUR IN FEBRUARY MEXICAN TOUR Leaving middle of March, 1963 Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins NORTHWEST CANADIAN TOUR in June HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR July BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR Leaves August 17 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah - Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Build your family's food and water supply with Perma Pak's storage plan! Easy and Economical! Pay as little as $85.00 per family member for a whole year's balanced food supply. Serve each meal at an average cost of about 10c per person! Also, a complete line of camping and survival kits containing foods and supplies. Write today for your FREE Perma-Pak Catalog of low-moisture, low-cost foods. Perma-Pak foods come in both large, No..10 protector cans for compact storage and in easy-to-carry polycello bags for camping or vacationing. PERMAPAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREONESS PRODUCTS 40 East Robert Ave. (2420 So.) Salt Lake City 15, Utah—486-9671 | Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah EW BOOKS FROM DESERET BOOK 1. BEHOLD THE LAMB OF GOD by the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A compilation of masterful discourses from the pen of one who spent a lifetime in faithful service to his Church and fellow man. A resounding testimony of the Son of the Living God by a devoted servant. $3.95 2. DYNAMIC LEADERSHIP by Lynn Fluckiger For leaders resolved to work for improvement in the New Year here is a powerful, new volume that provides upto-date techniques and plenty of incentive. Everyone called to leadership should read it! $2.00 T Deseret Be Book Ff COMPANY Enclose attached coupon for 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL mail orders: SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN =ei" 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find [] check [] money order []I have an account, please charge. Amount enclosed $ 0 0000.. For encircled numbered books: 1 2 NAME ADDRESS CITY ZONE STATE Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax.
