Relation of Nutrition to Health By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education In traveling over the state, I am frequently impressed with the health and vigor of many-of the mothers and realize this is so because they have lived up to their best knowledge of health. The Word of Wisdom counsels us to eat grains, vegetables and fruits and a little meat. These requirements are very much in accord with the present scientific teaching in nutrition. Not long ago I traveled with a former teacher of the Utah Agricultural College who made this statement: "The Utah girls are the most beautiful in the whole world." They are beautiful because health is beautiful, and they are from healthy parents. Perhaps some of you feel that this present emphasis on diet is unnecessary as the pioneers had little variety in food and were generally healthy. In some cases their dire need for food was much in their favor. They used greens because they had to. Their mustard, dandelion, pigweed and beet tops greens and cress were practically the equivalent of the approved spinach and lettuce today. They used milk generally and the average milk consumption was greater than it is today in spite of all of the emphasis that has been given it the past five years. They lived in sunlight, because they had to work out of doors in order to get sustenance and shelter from new lands. Recent discoveries show that direct sunshine is one of the best means we have of preventing rickets. Exercise and out-of-doors and sunshine also stimulate appetite which is also necessary for good health. Perhaps some of you wonder why there is so much emphasis on the relation of nutrition to health. It is largely the result of the study of cause and effect. There are too many cases of illness of various kinds in which wrong diet has been a contributing factor. In order to better understand the relationship between - diet and health, scientists in different universities throughout the world have been endeavoring to find out both immediate and cumulative effects of foods that are incorrect as to amount and kinds. These careful studies have introduced us to the needs of the so-called protective foods which are in two classes?minerals and vitamins. Another contributing factor for this interest in nutrition has been the increasing use of highly refined foods which has eliminated the natural ash and vitamins of different foods. In place of molasses and honey, sugar is used almost exclusively. Highly milled flours have superseded the use of whole grain. The tendency of people to live in cities has taken people from small com- RELATION OF NUTRITION TO HEALTH 357 munities to the larger centers. This has increased the consumption of perishable foods, such as milk, fresh fruits and vegetables and made it difficult for many families to include them in the diet. Tendency to over-consumption of sweets and fats have also decreased the use of some of the more wholesome foods. We may confidently expect that a better and broader application of our present knowledge of food and nutrition will help greatly in the attainment of the best that heredity permits and thus bring to a much larger proportion of our people that full measure of health and vigor which only the more fortunate now enjoy. Health is an individual responsibility. It is your individual responsibility to be as well as you possibly can. It is most decidedly the responsibility of the mothers to have children as well as they possibly can be. Science has contributed much information within the past twenty years to improve health standards and increase the span of life. There are many welfare, health, and business agencies which are doing splendid work along different health lines. Some of the largest life insurance companies have proved that it pays to be well. The welfare divisions of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company are offering a wealth of free material on child care, maternal care as well as assistance of specialists whose responsibility is to help people to keep well. Department stores and industrial concerns have found that the employment of a dietician and the provision of an adequate lunch for employees insure better work. The opportunity this affords for employees to obtain at moderate price milk, green vegetables, and fresh foods, helps to make the average limited diet much more satisfactory. Lengthening the life span is a paying proposition, whether the saving is for the individual or corporation. The well nourished child may be distinguished by having the following characteristics: He has strong, straight bones. Healthy teeth that will last a life time; well constructed organs that will perform their various functions; good color of skin, hair, eyes; firm, well-built muscles; weight, approximately standard weight for height; high resistance to infectious diseases, especially those of the respiratory tract such as colds, tuberculosis, bronchitis. Pneumonia and grippe. Perhaps you wonder why the emphasis on the relation between diet and good respiratory tract?observation of individuals will help you to prove this. Where there is a tendency to chronic cold the diet is probably at fault, provided the individual exercise in the open air and sleep with open windows. There have been some recent experimental studies conducted by Dr. Sherman of Columbia University along this line. He took two groups of experimental animals, On one group was used a normal food allowance which produced normal development and such resistance to disease that 
 they lived to a good old age, reaching the normal life span of their species. The other group he fed on rations adequate in every respect except vitamin A, and they reached the mature size but lived only one-half the normal life span, and many of the animals died of diseases of the lungs. These animals, fed on a diet deficient in Vitamin A, did not manifest signs of physical impairment during the period of growth and yet they were destined to an early death because of the defects in the diet. Foods furnishing comparatively large amount of Vitamin A are butter, green-leaf vegetables, milk and root vegetables. We want better health standards. Health means strength and vigor and with maturity ability to produce vigorous young. And finally a normal span of life for both parent and children. The emphasis on the ability to reproduce vigorous young is important, as there is increasing recognition of the fact that food _ habits may show a clearer and more pronounced effect upon the health of the second generation than on the first. Some effects of dietary deficiencies have been found literally to be visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation. The more carefully we guard the food habits of this generation the less the danger that the next generation will not be long-lived, healthy citizens. Adequate nutrition is built upon four different lines of research, and all are necessary in planning a nutrition. These are: 1. Sufficient amount of digestible fuel foodstuffs to yield, when burned in the body, the necessary number of calories of energy. 2. Enough protein of suitable kinds. 3. Adequate amounts and proper proportions of the so-called mineral elements. 4. Enough of at least three kinds of vitamins. If we analyze the above it means: use of breadstuffs and other grain products with some sugars and fats as additional sources of energy; the use of meats (including fish and poultry) -which are rich in protein or fat, or both, but highly important as sources of mineral elements and vitamins; fruits and vegetables highly important as sources of mineral elements and vitamins; milk, important as sources of energy, protein, mineral elements and vitamins. This is the most efficient of all foods in making good the deficiencies of grains and insuring all around adequacy of the diet. The average. American diet, composed largely of breadstuffs, sweets, meats and fats, while it may be satisfying to the palate and to the traditional demand for variety, is inadequate because it lacks in minerals and vitamins. Much has been done along the line of human betterment within the past twenty years. We have reached the stage when instruction in scientific nutrition should be a part of the problem of the student RELATION OF NUTRITION TO HEALTH ? 359 of primary, secondary and higher school education. Experience has proved that one of the best means of educating children in nutrition is to educate the mothers. With the many organizations it ought not to be difficult to educate the mothers as to the importance of the nutrition program. The other day I heard a woman question a statement made from the pulpit that food has a moral value. It does have a decided moral value. Too large a number of boys and girls sent to reformatories have been underweight. Dr. Sherman of Columbia University freely concedes that food does have a moral value. On experiments with animals it has been found that the simple increase in the amount of milk has resulted in, both a more rapid and a more efficient growth. This result is shown in both earlier maturity and also in deferring: old age. These animals also attained a somewhat larger size, better success in rearing young, and an even more marked improvement in general health and vigor in the second generation than in the first. It has been proved that by starting with a diet already adequate we may, by the improvement of the diet, induce a higher degree of health and vigor. ' Increasing interest is shown in the better baby movement and it is possible that we have not yet determined the optimum rate of growth. Good nutrition will result in superior health in both the present and the future health standards of yourself and family.