Literature
Eugene Field
It will be three years on October 28, 1925, since a monument was unveiled to Eugene Field, in Lincoln Park, Chicago. This monument was paid for chiefly by the children of the city of Chicago. It consists of a brooding angel hovering over two sleeping children, sprinkling the sand of dreams into their eyes. On the base are carved the first four lines of "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod." On the other side of the sleeping children are the first four lines of "The Sugar Plum Tree." "Have you ever heard of the Sugar Plum Tree? *Tis a marvel of great renoun,. It blooms on the shore of the Lollipop Sea, In the garden of Shut Eye Town." Eugene Field was born in 1850 in Chicago and died there in 1895. He once satarized himself as the Dante of Chicago, with a roll of sausages about his head. He was prankish, loved very much to get a joke on one of his friends. In the "Americanization of Edward Bok," Mr. Bok tells us how miserable his friend Eugene Field made him and what great embarrassment he caused him by one of his jokes, and then how he extended the most cordial entertainment to him when he visited Chicago. Yet Field was very much more than prankish, he had a very serious side. His last public appearance consisted of a reading to help a destitute woman. He did not know the person for whom he was making the effort, a great one for him, at that particular time, in his failing health, but it was a free-will offering. We have talked of Riley as the children's poet. Eugene Field shares honors with both Longfellow and Riley as children's poet. Such poems as "Just 'Fore Christmas," "Swing High and Swing Low," "Seeing Things,' are very well known by the children all over America. A poem that may remind some of our mothers of their experience with their children and not unlikely with their grand-children, is "The Little Peach,' so we include it in the lesson. THE LITTLE PEACH A little peach in the orchard grew,? A little peach of emerald hue; Warmed by the sun and wet by the dew, It grew. 
 One day passing that orchard through, That little peach dawned on the view Of Johnny Jones and his sister Sue? Them two. Up at that peach a club they threw? Down from the stem on which it grew Fell that peach of emerald hue Mon Dieu. John took a bite and Sue a chew, And then the trouble began to brew,? Trouble the doctor couldn't subdue. For True! Under the turf where the daisies grew They planted John and his sister Sue, And their little souls to the angels flew,? Boo Hoo! Another poem of Fields that I think will appeal to parents is his '"'Father's Letter." I'm going to write a letter to our oldest boy who went Out West last spring to practice law and run for president; Ill tell him all the gossip I guess he'd like to hear, For he hasn't seen the home-folks for going on a year! Most generally it's Martha does the writing, but as she _ Is suffering with a felon, why, the job devolves on me? So, when the supper things are done and put away tonight, I'll draw my boots and shed my coat and settle down to write. I'll tell him crops are looking up, with prospects for big corn, That fooling with the barnyard gate the off ox hurt his horn. * These are the things I'll write him?our boy that's in the west; And I'll tell him how we miss him?his mother and the rest; Why we never have an apple pie that mother doesn't say, He liked it so?I wish that he could have a piece today! I'll tell him we are prospering, and hope he is the same? That we hope he'll have no trouble getting on to wealth and fame; And just before I write "good-by from father and the rest," I'll say that "mother sends her love," and that will please him best, Tor when I went away from home, the weekly news I heard Was nothing to the tenderness I found in that one word? The sacred name of mother? why, even. Now as then, The thought brings back the saintly face, the gracious love again And in my bosom seems to come a peace that is divine, As if an angel spirit communed again with mine; LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 387 And one man's heart is strengthened by the message from above, And earth seems nearer heaven when "Mother sends her love." A heartfelt tribute and one with an element of the universal in it is a poem entitled "Father's Way." Eugene Field was very fond of writing lullabys. In his writings we find a Jewish Lullaby, an Armenian Lullaby, a Sicilian Lullaby, Corsican Lullaby, and Wynken, Blynken and Nod is a Dutch Lullaby. A DUTCH LULLABY Wynken, Blynken, and Nod one night Sailed off in a wooden shoe? Sailed on a river of crystal light, Into a sea of dew. "Where are you going, and what do you wish?" The old man asked the three. "We have come to fish for the herring fish That live in this beautiful sea. Nets of silver and gold have we!" Said Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. The old man laughed and sang a song, As they rocked in the wooden shoe, And the wind that sped them all night long Ruffled the waves of dew. The little stars were the herring fish, "Now cast your nets wherever you wish? Never afeard are we." So cried the stars to the fishermen three; Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. Wynken and Blynken are two little eyes, And Nod is a little head, And the wooden shoes that Pailed the skies Is a wee one's trundle-bed. So shut your eyes while mother sings Of wonderful sights that be, And you shall see the beautiful things As you rock in the misty sea, Where the old shoe rocked the fisherman three: Wynken, Blynken, And Nod. 
 When his monument was unveiled it was witnessed by two of his grand children, little Miss Jean Field Foster, and Master Robert Eugene Field. The poem, "A Valentine to My Wife" is representative, in a way, of life in the Field home as well as expressive of his devotion to his wife: A VALENTINE TO MY WIFE Accept; dear girl, this little token, And if between the lines you seek, You'll find the love I've often spoken? The love my dying lips shall speak. Our little ones are making merry O'er am'rous ditties rhymed in jest, But in these words, (though awkward?very ) The genuine article's expressed. You are as fair and. Sweet and tender, Dear brown-eyed little sweetheart mine, As when a callow youth and slender I asked to be your Valentine. What though these years of ours be fleeting? What though the years of youth be flown? I'll mock old Tempus with repeating, "T love my love and her alone!" And when I fall before his reaping, And when my stuttering speech is dumb, Think not my love is dead or sleeping, But that it wails for you to come. So take, dear love, this little token, And if there speaks in any line The sentiment I'd fain have spoken, Say, will you kiss your Valentine? "Christmas" is also a poem written for children. It bears the date December 1, 1884. It is evidence, as are others of Eugene Fields' poems, of his deep religious convictions, for Eugene Field was a religious man. CHRISTMAS My little child comes to my knee And tugging pleads that he may climb Into my lap to hear me tell The Christmas tale he loves so well? A tale my mother told to me, Beginning: "Once upon a time." LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 389 It is a tale of skies that rang With angel rhapsodies sublime; Of that great host serene and white, The shepherds saw one winter night; And of the glorious stars that sang An anthem, once upon a time. The story of the hallowed years Tells of the sacrifice sublime Of one who prayed alone and wept While his aweared followers slept? And how his blood and Mary's tears Commingled, once upon a time. And now my darling at my side And echoes of the distant clime Bring the sweet story back to me? Of Bethlehem and Calvary, And of the gentle Christ that died For sinners, once upon a time. The mighty deeds that men have told In pondrous tones or fluent rhyme, Like misty shadows fade away; But this sweet story bides for aye, And, like the stars that sang of old, We sing of "Once upon a time." Eugene Iield's immortality could rest upon one poem, "Little Boy Blue." It is the most exquisite of all of his poems. It is hardly exaggerating the case to say that no other poet has handled this theme in so perfect a manner as has he. If we can know only one of Eugene Fields' poems let that one be "Little Boy Blue." In writing of one of Raphael's Madonnas that is found in the Uffizi gallery, in Florence, Mrs. H. H. Powers says, "There is more than one way of being perfect, but this is perfection, and this is Raphael." We wish to borrow the sentence and apply it to "Little Boy Blue," and say there is more than one way of being perfect, but "Little Boy Blue" is perfect and "Little Boy Blue" is Eugene Field. Of course, it is his masterpiece. LITTLE BOY BLUE The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands; And the little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket moulds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time that our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there. .
 "Now, don't you go till I come," he said, "And don't you make any noise!" So, toddling off to his trundle bed, He dreamt of the pretty toys; And as he was dreaming, an angel song Awakened our Little Boy Blue? Oh! The years are many, the years are long, But the little toy friends are true! Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand, Each in the same old place? Awaiting the touch of a little hand, The smile of a little face. And they wonder as waiting the long years through In the dust of that little chair, What has become of our little Boy Blue, Since he kissed them and put them there. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Go to the encyclopedia, or some book that will furnish data on the life of Eugene Field, condense it, and give a brief sketch of his life. 2. What specific lines in the poem a "Valentine to My Wife" are evidence of Field's religious convictions in relation to the immortality of the soul. 3. December 1, 1884, is the date given for the writing of Eugene Field's poem called "Christmas." How long had it been written last Christmas? Is it just as good now as when it was written? If you agree that it is, to what do you attribute the fact that it does not grow old or go out of date? 4, If you can find a child or several children in the ward who recite such poems as "Wynken, Blynken and Nod," or "Just 'Fore Christmas," have them come and recite them for the mothers. Don't think you must confine the reading to the poems mentioned, and to others the children of your ward are familiar with. The children will read these poems in a much more attractive way than grown-ups can possibly do. 5. If you can obtain a copy of "The Americanization of Edward Bok" look up the story of the joke Eugene Field played on him; and either read it or tell it to the class. 6. Have some one, not a child, read "Little Boy Blue" to the class. Discuss the poem and see if you can discover why it is so effective.