[Vol16 | May 1929 | Sequence: 03a | Category: Article | Title: Mrs. Marcia Knowlton Howells | Author: Mary Grant Judd]

In 'the days when Merry Widow hats were all the vogue
—
twenty-five years ago to be exact—a group of light-hearted girls
spent a fortnight at Brighton in Big Cottonwood Canyon. The
Grant Cottage had just been completed, and they were allowed
to be its first occupants.
Towards the conclusion of the house party, Brother and
Sister Grant arrived, and, as was their custom, took a lively interest
in all that transpired. They enjoyed getting better acquainted
with the girls; and when the guests had returned to the city,
their hosts gave it as their opinion that the cabin had housed an
exceptionally fine group of young people. They discussed this
one and that, and then I remember President Grant's saying something
to this effect: "Of course we are partial to our own, so
we will leave them out ; but of all the other girls, I was most impressed
with Marcia Knowlton. She gives promise of being an
exceptional woman/'
He did not know that at just about this time, in a patriarchal
blessing, Marcia had been promised that she should be a leader
among women. I doubt if he may even recall his words for, during
the intervening years, he has seen little of the girl who so impressed
him. But my association with her has been very close and
I have remembered. And now, with the calling of Marcia Knowlton
Howells to the General Board of the Relief Society, the
words of my father, spoken somewhat carelessly at the time, appear
to me almost in the light of prophecy.
The subject of this sketch was born May 28, 1888, in Farmington,
Utah, the daughter of Minerva Richards and Benjamin
Franklin Knowlton. Her father died when she was very young,
leaving the entire care of herself, one brother, and three sisters,
to her mother. Sister Knowlton is a descendant of the early
pioneer Richards family, whose history at Nauvoo is so closely
interwoven with that of our Church as to be almost inseparable.
She is a true gentlewoman, dignified and refined. Though quiet
and somewhat reserved one feels nevertheless that she has been
a tower of strength to her fatherless children. Her faith in the
gospel has not wavered ; and though her responsibilities have been
many, she has found time to take an active part in the Church.
Her daughter is but following where the mother has led ; for
Sister Knowlton, at the age of seventeen, was made secretary of
the Davis Stake Relief Society at the time of its organization. For
twenty-five years she gave continuous service, her last position
being that of stake president.
The home over which she presided, the home where Marcia was reared, was one of order and spirituality. The loss of the
father seemed to knit the family, closer together. Between the
mother and children in that home there grew a deep and sacred
love. Here, both night and morning, family prayers were said, the
law of tithing observed, the Sabbath properly enjoyed, the Word
of Wisdom rigidly adhered to. In short, the simple laws of the
Gospel were here taught by both example and precept.
Came a day when Marcia left her mother's home to start a
new one of her own, but so potent had been the mother's teachings
that the daughter could not forsake them even if she would. She
had said that if at times her own inclinations might have led her
to follow the easier way—the way of the crowd—the thought that
it would pain her mother has deterred her.
For thoughtfulness of others is one of Marcia's outstanding
attributes. If I were to try to put into words that something
which distinguishes her from other individuals, I would say it is
the quality of her generosity. She gives herself. Wherever you
see her she is helping. "Let me do that," she says, in her pleasant
way; and so willing does she seem that her friends appreciatively
accept her proffers. She is generous with her time, doing more
than her share when called upon. She is generous in her thoughts
of others. Because she is not one of those persons who is passively
good, she is tolerant of the failings of her acquaintances ; and where
there is good to be found, she is generous in her praise. She
enjoys giving sincere compliments. Modest about her own talents,
scarcely admitting that she has any, she greatly admires the
accomplishments of others.
I might put it in another way and say she is genuinely unselfish.
If working in a successful group, she is apt to give most
credit to the other person. This in itself is a form of generosity
;
for we all like praise, whether we are willing to admit it or not.
She never tries to attract attention to herself or to be "the center
of the stage." In her makeup there is no jealousy. On the contrary,
she gets keen enjoyment out of the good fortune of others.
She is sympathetic. It seems to be her second nature to visit and
help those in trouble. She is hospitable. Her husband, Dr. Thomas
J. Howells, and herself have a wide circle of friends who are
always made welcome in their pleasant home. Marcia is funloving,
young in appearance and spirit, kindly, approachable, in
short, a charming hostess.
If one adds to these likable personal qualities the fact that
Marcia is a good executive, a tireless and enthusiastic worker,
and has the background of a splendid education, one may readily
see that she is well qualified for the position to which she has been
called. Her schooling comprised attendance at the public schools
of Farmington, the L. D. S. High School, and the University of
Utah, the whole being rounded out by four years of teaching. In
1921, in company with her husband and young son, she took a trip around the world—a liberal education in itself. Always interested
in Church work, she has served as a local or stake worker
in Sunday School, Primary, Religion Class and Relief Society.
At the time of her call to the Relief Society General Board she
was acting as first counselor to Sister Elizabeth C. Williams of
the Salt Lake stake'.
Her president pays her this glowing tribute : "There is nothing
too good to say for Sister Howells. She is a splendid executive,
efficient, dependable, and one of those rare individuals who assume
more than their share of responsibility. In our deliberations
as a presidency, she was frank to give her opinions though they
might differ radically from our own ; but once a decision was
reached, she readily fell in line, setting her own views aside. I
admired her for this. We were loath to lose her, but felt it an
honor to have her chosen to her present position."
T hope that many of you who read this sketch may know the
happiness of meeting Marcia Knowlton Howells. It will enrich
your experience as it has done mine. In our high school days I
formed a high opinion of her character ;.and during all the years of
our friendship, she has not disappointed me. No, not once.

A Cook Book from Garfield Stake
The Garfield Stake Relief Society, under the direction of the
stake board, has compiled a very useful and attractive cook book.
This reminds us that in the olden days co-operation had not
been thought of in relation to cooking. If a girl happened to be
born into a home where the people were good cooks, she stood a
very good chance of being a good cook herself. If, on the other
hand, her people did not know how to make good bread, or to cook
other things properly, that was her inheritance in the cuisine art.
But nowadays, through co-operation, practically all women who
are ambitious in this work can learn the best way to cook. The
project put over by Garfield Stake is a movement in co-operation.
The book gives a variety of recipes, that will be useful to
anybody desiring to combine tasty and delicious foods. To people
who have a sweet tooth, the number of recipes for cakes and
cookies will give general satisfaction. We compliment and commend
this stake on this activity. Many stakes have done the same
thing at other times, so that the Relief Society has a reputation
for spreading good news in the art of cooking.