[Vol16 | May 1929 | Sequence: 03c | Category: Article | Title: The Inauguration | Author: Vera S. King]

The Inauguration
A Letter by Mrs. Vera S. King, President of Relief Society at
Washington, D. C; wife of Senator William H. King
To the Editor,
Relief Society Magazine
:
When you asked me to write a letter on the inauguration, I
feared that by the time my letter reached you everyone might
be surfeited from reading about even so momentous an event.
I am delighted, however, to submit a few of my impressions from
the Senate Gallery, as perhaps being a little more intimate than
even the regular reporter might give.
Preparations and Weather
For weeks before the fourth of March the town began taking
on new activities. There was a sub-current of excitement felt
everywhere, the city being literally house-cleaned and made bright
and shiny for the expected visitors. The shop windows took on a
new magnificence. The hotels were overflowing with persons
coming from all parts of the country, eager to be assured of
accommodations.
The weather through February, as so often happens this far
South, was delightful, giving a promise of spring by its mellow
warmth and soft sunshine. The more adventuresome blades of
grass were beginning to show green, causing the entire city to
desire to desert the irksome duties of remaining indoors and to
join forces with those who were preparing for the "big day."
How tempting it is, on a sunshiny afternoon, to stroll through
the beautiful Lafayette Park just in front of the White House!
On this particular day in February I was taking this walk and
caught my first glimpse of the stand being built for the new President
to review the parade. On each side the skeletons of immense
bleachers were going up over every available square foot along
the avenue, from the White House to the Capitol, so that visitors
might witness the events in comfort.
A Momentous Occasion
Partaking of the excitement of the preparation, and standing
there with the view of the White House obstructed by this scaffolding,
one could not help but wonder at the emotions of those
within the historic building. The man who for more than four
years had wielded authority greater than most kings and rulers
of this world now exercise, would depart under the stone arches
a plain American citizen ; and the man, now to wield that power, would walk under the portico as the thirty-first President. At
that moment, a friend of mine from the Italian Embassy passed,
leaving with me a thought that made a deep impression. "Do you
not feel the gruesomeness of it, Madam King?" he asked; "the
inmates of that house forced to witness, day by day, the building
of the scaffold that will eventually behead them."
I smiled at this dramatic statement, feeling that he did not
understand political and social phenomena that exist nowhere else
in the world—conditions that should make the heart of every
American citizen beat with pride ; for in this symbolism of the
President and his surroundings are represented the wishes and
desires of a mighty people ; and at the same time, never for a
moment is he to feel that power is personally his, but that it is his
for only a little season, as the servant of the people.
Ladies of the White House
Mrs. Coolidge has so endeared herself to everyone whose
privilege it was to know her that she will leave in the affections
of the people a place very difficult to fill. The Senate ladies, over
whom she has presided as Honorary President, gave in her honor
their final luncheon, at which she was presented with a magnificent
antique desk—the thing, her secretary told us, she wanted most.
Bought in Alexandria, Virginia, it is a lovely specimen of early
American furniture, about three hundred years old. At the same
time Mrs. Dawes was presented with four handsome silver candlesticks.
She was kind- enough to say they were just what she
wanted, as it was always necessary for her to borrow those belonging
to her daughter.
Mrs. Coolidge made the most gracious response, with a little
history and description of the various desks she had used throughout
her life—a kitchen table with a broken leaf in college days
and on to the White House, and finally this one, which would be
hers the rest of her life. I should like to pay tribute to this
splendid woman of sterling character, in every way an example as
first lady of the land. There were no dry eyes in the group when
she said goodbye to us.
Incidents of 'Moving
Several amusing incidents have been told of the Coolidges
moving out. It seems that they have been deluged with presents,
from solid silver plates—gifts from the cabinet—to ten-gallon hats
from the cowboys. How is the little house in Northampton
going to hold them all ? The President, with his dry wit, has said
to his wife that if she took all of her clothes with her, the family
would have to live in the closet and hang their clothes in the room.
He also called to one of the movers on the van, "Don't try to put all those things in the house, or they will stick out through the
windows."
When the bleachers were all finished and the inaugural stands
completed, the trees fairly bloomed with a strange fruit of microphones,
while crowds of visitors thronged the streets. There were
flags from practically every window, bunting in red, white, and
blue, uniforms mingling with civilians, shiny top hats, and sombre
frocked coats ; bands playing, the Marine Band and the Navy
Band, and many more ; aeroplanes flying overhead, noise and excitement
everywhere for the "big day."
A very amusing cartoon appeared that morning in one of the
Washington papers, showing everybody in the best of spirits,
happy and contented, except the weather man ; he was hanging his
head in bitter shame, for he had predicted rain for the afternoon,
and most unfortunately that prophecy came true.
Arrival of the Guests
Even for those who had passes, the problem that morning
was to get to the Capitol early ; for the streets flowed and overflowed
with the multitudes. Only two cards were issued to each
Senator for the Senate Gallery, as the space there was limited. So
my father and I were among the fortunate ones that day. The
exercises were to begin at eleven o'clock, the Vice- President to
take his oath of office at twelve noon. Trie delay in assembling
gave us an opportunity to study the galleries and pick friends and
acquaintances. Many Utahns were assembled in that distinguished
gathering—Mrs. George Sutherland, looking very dignified and
charming; Mrs. Cardon and Mrs. Harold Smoot; our own Mrs.
J. Reuben Clark, and on the floor of the Senate, Mr. Louis S.
Cates.
At eleven o'clock Vice-President Dawes called the Senate
together for the last time. At this moment, Miss Trumbull,
fiancee of J;ohn Coolidge, came into the Senate Gallery. A few
minutes later Mrs. Coolidge and Mrs. Hoover arrived together.
Mrs. Coolidge was dressed in a new beige costume with a becoming
hat to match. Her face wreathed in smiles, she radiated her usual
graciousness, bowing and nodding to friends on all sides. She
made her greetings with an occasional wave of the hand. Mrs.
Hoover wore plum color, most becoming to her white hair. With
their arrival, the gallery arose and stood until they were seated
At 11:56 the diplomatic corps was announced, led by Sir
Esme Howard, the British Ambassador. The foreign diplomats
in bright and colorful uniforms made a great spectacle with their
gold braids and medals. Next came the membership of the House
of Representatives, led by Speaker Longworth. In a few minutes
the entire chamber rocked with applause when Mr. Curtis arrived
and seated himself at the side of the Vice-President. There was an immediate hush when. President Coolidge and Mr. Hoover
entered, to be followed by another outburst of applause, the entire
body of the Senate standing. Vice-President Dawes then delivered
his farewell address, administered the oath of office to his
successor and left the dais. Vice-President Curtis, alert after his
thirty-four years of service, assumed his office with a sharp bang
of the gavel. The Senators were then sworn in for the Seventyfirst
Congress by the new Vice-President.
The Oath of Office
Shortly after noon, Herbert Hoover became President of the
United States. The oath was administered on the East Front of
the Capitol by Chief Justice of the United States, William Howard
Taft: "You do solemnly swear that you will faithfully execute
the office of President of the United 'States, and will, to the best
of your ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution
of the United States."
Those time-honored and impressive words, uttered in a firm
voice by the Chief Justice, and the solemn response, "I do," by
President Hoover, were heard by thousands in a down-pour of
rain and by tens of thousands over the magic of the radio. Around
the new President, on a specially constructed platform, stood
Calvin Coolidge, honored throughout the world, now but a private
citizen, the chief officers of the Government, and representatives
from all nations.
Mr. and Mrs. Coolidge then left for the Union Station,
dividing the interest with President and Mrs. Hoover, who were
escorted to the White House.
The procession that followed proceeded along historic
Pennsylvania Avenue, which had been changed from an ordinary
thoroughfare to a court of splendor. Twenty thousand persons
composed the parade, with a display of aircraft overhead.
Luncheon was served at the Executive Mansion for the chief
actors in this drama. Later, they were escorted to the Court of
Honor before the White House, from which they witnessed the
parade. Washington, famous for its parades, is famous, also, for
its manner of handling them. This big panorama moved forward
without disorder, taking about three hours to pass a given point.
Beginning with General Summeral, our sixth general, ranking
with Washington and Pershing, it was a magnificent spectacle of
methodical marching, crack units. Indians from the West, who
were supposed to march, but were forced to ride to protect their
gorgeous regalia, were followed by contingents of Governors and
their aides.
The Grand Committee Ball
After so strenuous a day the President and his Lady spent a deservedly quiet evening in their new home. The public who were
gathered to honor them this' day were not so inclined and a group
of public-spirited Washingtonians conceived the idea of having
what they called an inaugural charity ball, knowing what the
attitude of the people would be. Upon former occasions the
inaugural ceremonies ended with a magnificent ball in the evening.
In later years, however, this custom has been departed from, with
only a ceremonial ball under appropriate committees.
Two tiers of boxes, each selling for $100 and more, were
arranged around the huge auditorium. Through the center leading
to the stage an aisle was roped off through which visiting
Governors and their aides were escorted. The ceremony, accompanied
by appropriate martial music, was stirring, the presentation
of the Governors lasting for an hour. Promptly at 11:15 the
Vice-President and his party arrived; amid thundering applause,
he and his Lady were accompanied to the stage. More than eight
thousand persons were on the floor that evening, and the pressure
of the crowds made movement well nigh impossible. But, as the
carnival spirit of gaiety prevailed, no one seemed to mind the
mighty concourse. With flags and streamers the hall was a riot
of color. Bands played continuously and a gorgeous array of
gowns were worn. To me the most impressive sight of the
evening was the magnificent troupe of Kaw Indians who had
journeyed from their homes to do honor to their Brother who
had so honored their tribe. Dressed in their holiday finery of
white skins and colorful feather bonnets, they were splendid
specimens of humanity, both men and women. They were the
outstanding bits of picturesqueness of the evening, and when a
powerful young Indian brave mounted the stage and stood beside
his famous kinsman and, in a thundering voice, sang the "Star
Spangler Banner," I am sure that everyone felt the evening well
spent. And so ended the Inauguration Day, March 4, 1929.