[Vol16 | May 1929 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Pioneer Mother Jennie B. Knight]

Avard Fairbanks' Tribute in Stone
By Jennie B. Knight
What serene yet powerful beauty ! What determined yet
restful strength ! What vigorous yet graceful loveliness ! What
a mother!
Such are the thoughts that find echo in the hearts of the children
and grandchildren of that heroine, "The Pioneer Mother",
as they gaze with fascination upon the artistic representation. The
grateful appreciation for such a character carries over to the man
responsible for so accurate and so beautiful a portrayal of "The
Pioneer Mother," the man who understands and appreciates as
they do, but who is also able to express his appreciation through
the sculptor's fingers and the artist's soul. The man is Avard
Fairbanks.
"He has the soul of an artist, his vision and his hands are good
and faithful servants, and his taste is sound and safe * * *
His genius is not an explosive, consuming fire, but instead is a
comfortable, steady flame that illuminates and permeates, and endures."
Thus does America's eminent naturalist, W. T. Hornady,
describe for us the sculptor.
We claim Mr. Fairbanks as our own because he was born in
Provo, Utah, March 2, 1892, the son of J. B. Fairbanks and Lily
Anetta Huish Fairbanks. The father, a man of sturdy New
England stock, is regarded as one of the leading landscape painters
of America. The mother was a woman with an understanding
heart and an appreciation of her husband's and children's talents
:
no sacrifice was too great for her if it was for their advancement.
The genius of Avard was manifested early. At the age of
twelve he completed his first piece of sculpture, in the form of a
rabbit, which was exibited in the Utah State Fair. The next year
he followed his father to New York, where both of them pursued their professions. The boy began work in the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, studying the examples of sculpture there and
working also in the New York Zoological Museum. The young
prodigy was soon recognized in the magazine and newspaper
world, the result being that he was offered a special scholarship
in the Art Students League of New York, where he was soon
happily enrolled as the youngest student in attendance. The
following year the scholarship was re-offered ; and it was then, at
the early age of fourteen, that the work of Avard was accepted
by the National Academy of Design.
R. Stuyvesant Pierrepont, prominent banker on Wall Street
in New York, writes : "I have known Mr. Fairbanks and have
seen him off and on since he was fourteen years old when he did a
sculpture of my baby daughter, which I understand was exhibited
in the Paris Salon."
The next year of this eventful period, Avard returned home
and attended high school at the L. D. S. U. in Salt Lake City. He
did not remain long at school. At the age of sixteen we find him
enrolled in the Ecole Nationale Des Beaux Arts, the French Government
Art School. While in Paris he attended also the Ecole
Colrossi and Ecole La Grande Chaumiere. When seventeen years
of age, in recompense for effort as well as ability, his work was accepted
in the Great Salon of Paris.
The outbreak of the war disturbed this unusual progress,
and Avard returned home to engage once more in his liberal
education.
About this time, two and a half years of his life were spent in
Laie, Hawaii, where he and his brother, J. Leo, fulfilled a commission
to do the sculpture work of the Latter-day Saint temple.
It is related that while accomplishing this piece of work, Avard
was besieged by and fell victim to a queer little fellow known as
cupid. When twenty-one years old he was married in Honolulu
to Beatrice Maude Fox of Salt Lake City. Today they are the
proud parents of four stalwart sons.
Upon his return to Utah, Mr. Fairbanks joined in the service
in the S. A. T. C. of the University of Utah.
After the signing of the Armistice he entered his professional
field of sculpture. One of his first undertakings at this time was
the heroic size statue of 'The Doughboy of Idaho". At the completion
of his work on 'The Doughboy", C. C. Moore, Governor
of Idaho, asserted that "We who personally know this splendid
character, ability, and energy, predict for him a brilliant future in
his chosen field of endeavor."
His twenty-third anniversary found him enlisted as assistant
professor of Art in the University of Oregon. While thus employed
he asked for a one year's leave of absence, which he utilized in working for and receiving his B.F.A. degree from
Yale University.
In 1927 his ability and character were again recognized and
he was given a grant by the Guggenheim Memorial Foundation
to study in Italy. At the expiration of the scholarship, which occurred
recently, he returned to Seattle, Washington, where he has
been commissioned to make the 91st Division Memorial, a piece
of work now under construction. Since his return he has also received
the appointment to head a newly created Department of
Sculpture in the University of Michigan.
Avard Fairbanks has not yet reached the summit of his artistic
achievement. Such authorities as W. Frank Pairdy, one of
America's greatest art critics, says : "I am very definitely of the
opinion that if the United States is ever to express itself in a voice
of its own in sculpture, it will be through men like Fairbanks
;
men of about his age, and men of his consecration to the highest
ideals of art, and men of his supreme industry * * * And
I know of none of richer promise along these lines."