[Vol16 | May 1929 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker | Author: Alice Louise Reynolds]

Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker comes to the General Board
with a unique background and experience. She is the wife of
Professor James L. Barker, head of the Modern Language Department
at the University of Utah, and, as such, has shared his valuable
experiences abroad. It is probably true that no other man in
the Church has devoted as much time to study abroad as Professor
Barker, and during part of this time in foreign lands his wife has
been with him. She first went to Europe in 1906, the year of their
marriage, and since that time has spent seven years in Europe,
where she took advantage of opportunity for study, both in the
University of Neuchatel, Switzerland, and in the University of
Paris, France.
Mrs. Barker is the daughter of Nathaniel Montgomery and
Nancy Clark Montgomery, both of Scotch extraction. Montgomery
Castle, mentioned by Burns in one of his poems, was the
ancestral castle of her father's people. Also, on her mother's side,
she is connected with the great manufacturers, J. & P. Coates,
located at Paisley, Scotland. She was born in North Ogden, Utah,
and there she spent her early girlhood days. Her father was a
successful farmer, with such a knowledge of law that the people
around called him Judge Montgomery. He was a man possessing
exceptional powers of analysis, and of a quick and alert mind.
Mrs. Barker has inherited her father's mental alertness. Her
mother was a woman of tender nature, kindly in attitude towards
those with whom she came in contact, and very much devoted to
her home and children. Her home was a center of hospitality,
and through many years she made welcome a host of friends. Mrs.
Barker has inherited her mother's tenderness and solicitude for her
children ; and, with her husband, possesses the spirit of hosnitality
so apparent in the lives of her father and mother.
After her early training, she entered the Ogden High School.
Here her record for scholarship was one of the highest in the
school. Her husband often remarks, jokingly, that one thing he
has against his wife is that he never could keep up with her in high
school. Her grades were always higher than his, so he says. She
tells the story of being ill in her district school days, and of going
out to meet her sisters returning from school, so anxious was she
to know the grade that had been given the pupils. When she
asked about them, the answer came, "You got the highest grade
in school, except one, and that was James Barker, who received
one-half a point more than you." After graduation from the Ogden
High School, she taught school for four years, and was teaching in Logan the year of her marriage, which occurred May 30, 1906.
At that time, Mr. Barker had been teaching foreign language
in the Ogden High School, having prepared himself for this work
by study in the University of Utah, and a three-year mission that
brought him in contact with both French and German. At once
they set sail for Europe, as Mr. Barker had in mind college work.
They have three children, two daughters and a son. Nancy,
the eldest daughter, is assisting in the Modern Language Department
at the University of Utah, teaching French and Spanish, as
she pursues her college course. Margaret, who is still in the L. D.
S. High School, is also efficient in French ; and the youngest member
of the family, a son bearing his father's name, bids fair to
maintain the family reputation for linguistic achievements.
Since her marriage, Mrs. Barker has been connected with
university circles and has taken advantage of this connection in
the college centers in which she has resided. The years 1906 and
1907 were spent in Europe, as also were 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913,
1924, 1925, 1926, 1927. She knows pre-war and post-war Europe
in a way that not many have been privileged to know it. Foreign
languages are not usually easy for an American to learn. The
United States is so isolated from other countries that the background
of its citizens does not afford the opportunities, common
in Europe, for acquiring other tongues. Mrs. Barker's friends
have been astonished at the rapidity and accuracy with which she
acquired the French language. I do not know that she ever studied
it formally, but from her constant contacts with French people,
from the companionship of her husband, and from taking note of
what he taught the children, she has acquired a reading and speaking
knowledge of French that makes her at home among Frenchspeaking
people ; and it enabled her to carry on her work in the
universities of Neuchatel and Paris, where practically all the lectures
are delivered in French.
Since Mrs. Barker's return from Europe, she has been active
in various literary organizations that have as their object the culture
of their members. She is at present a member of the Faculty
Women's Club of the University of Utah, and of the Author's
Club. Since 1927, she has been on the stake board of the Relief
Society of Liberty Stake, where, as stake supervisor, she has had
the direction of the theology work.
Mrs. Barker is frank and open in her conversation and dealings.
She dislikes sham and pretense, and detects it in others, as
it were, by instinct. She is a good thinker and expresses herself
with clearness, both in her private conversation and in her public
utterances. She is intuitively sympathetic and tender towards people
who are unfortunate or handicapped. She is of a mental and
emotional make-up that naturally brings the best that is in her to
the fore, especially for the succor of those who need relief. Tender
of heart, keen of mind, and devoted to persons or causes that she deems worthy, she brings to the great Relief Society cause an
acumen of knowledge and a breadth of sympathy that will, at all
times, be helpful in furthering its two major objects—relief and
education. Mrs. Effie Hutchings Marshall and Triplets
The triplets shown in the accompanying picture, Rachel, Ruth and
Ross, are the children of Mrs. Effie Hutchings Marshall of Minersville.
At the time of their birth, July 31, 1927, the mother was secretary of
the Relief Society in the Minersville ward. They are fine, healthy
babies, and were about ten months old when this picture was taken.#
There are five other children in the family.