THE SPIRIT GIVETH LIFE Counselor Donna D. Sorensen EACH of you here today has chosen to make wise use of life, because you have set yourself a serious work to do and will be seeking in the months to come the end of a task well and skillfully performed. Under your direction, more than 71,000 meetings will go forward in the various Relief Societies of the Church. You are the stake officers, and the ward leadership is looking to you for direction; and the kind of attitude you have as you resume your work this fall will provide the keynote for their acceptance of their responsibility. Now, as we begin another year's work in the Relief Society, it is well to recall the objective of this organization in all its work. This has been restated recently for us by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said, "The sole, ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the Christ and of the Gospel, of the divinity of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the Restored Gospel and Priesthood." Much of the value of this organization to the women of the Church will come through adherence to this objective, which should motivate all our actions and teachings as officers in the Relief Society. We may fit ourselves with all the training at our command to do our task well, but if we neglect calling for aid from our Heavenly Father we will not be as successful as we might otherwise be. All women who are members of the Church have had hands laid on them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Here is a reservoir from which we may draw and from which we may teach our ward leadership to draw in time of need. The Gospel, with the gift of the Holy Ghost, gives us a basis for decision. This gift gives us, also, a consciousness of unbounded power upon which we may rely when called upon for action and which will "bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come." We should be constantly aware that "we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth...." (I Cor. 2:12-13) THE educational program of this Society stands as a testament to the belief of the leadership of this organization in the truth that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with 735 us in the resurrection." Such a belief has not only enlarged the scope and range of the educational work offered by this Society, but it has also been a great influence in prompting women to the full discharge of their duties. Most of us are fully acquainted with the work done by missionaries in "opening up" the four corners of the earth to the Gospel message. And yet it is a little difficult to comprehend and realize the magnitude of the additional work which will be done by the ward class leaders this year in acquainting 6,000 additional women with the truths presented in the lessons of the Relief Society. Of the more than 86,000 women who will come under the direction of the ward class leaders of your stakes, many will be women whom life has touched, and ofttimes not kindly. They will be women whose hearts are sick with the bloodshed and horror in the earth. Others who will come indirectly under your direction will be young women for whom life with its responsibility is just beginning and who need the example and the steadying controls which lessons skillfully handled in a spiritual way engenders. Other women will be in attendance in ward meetings whose families are of such an age that they are demanding more and more attention—busy mothers whose lives are crowded with multitudinous duties and who find in these lessons a respite from physical activity with a chance for mental stimulation. Then there will be women there nearing the end of life's road and slowly approaching the "valley of the final shadow." These dear sisters would like to sense a feeling of being 736 wanted and needed. They are looking for comfort and recognition. Deeply implanted in each of the souls of the women is that hunger to be fed words of truth and life. A class leader's ability to satisfy that deep-seated hunger for the bread of life will determine her worth as a teacher in this Church auxiliary, where women have the right to expect a lesson which will minister spiritual comfort and faith. All that is fine and uplifting in the world we would like to embody in these lessons, but we should never forget that in this auxiliary the women should expect and should receive lessons which partake of and manifest the spirit of this great Church. AS stake and General Board leaders, we should encourage the ward class leaders to gain a knowledge of subject matter and a knowledge of the fundamental principles of teaching. Both are extremely necessary and essential factors in good teaching, but in addition to these is the spirit of the Lord which stands ready to aid us. "It is not enough that teaching be intellectual and pedagogical, but it must be impregnated with the spirit of the Lord." We need to be aware that one can make excellent preparation to the point that probably a feeling of self-sufficiency enters in without our being aware of it. When this occurs, and we stand before the women without the reliance upon the Lord which we should have, we find that the lesson fails to touch the hearts of our listeners and our words are like seeds falling on barren ground. But when we have enriched our educational background and improved our knowledge of teaching principles,