literate: Department DISCRIMINATION IN READING Irene Tolton Hammond Emigration Stake Relief Society Literature Leader If were to ask each of you why you read, I imagine I would get about as many answers as there are types of temperament and varieties of habit, and all might be correct. One would say she reads for information, another for inspiration, another for courage, one for consolation, one for a knowledge of history, another for a knowledge of human nature, one for an escape from the monotony of our every-day living; but I imagine the great majority of us might very properly say we read for pleasure. Art of any kind is art only if it increases our awareness of life, its humor, its beauty, its seriousness, the common fate of humanity. Literature will give us this only if we enjoy it. The prime reason for the survival of literature is its power to give us relaxation and enjoyment. If that is the case, shall we read only light reading matter, such as the cheap so-called "pulp" magazines, the real romances, true confessions, and that sort of thing? This type of reading is only justified because it is easy. It offers no difficulties to our understanding; it usually ends happily, and it gives us a feeling that success is not very difficult to attain. But these are false standards for judging literature. Those of you who have been reading Adam Bede will recall the chapter in which George Eliot expresses her literary creed. She says, "Perhaps you will say, 'Improve the facts a little. The world is not what we like. Touch it up with a tasteful pencil.' But, my good friend,... That is not life. I must tell my story without making things seem better than they are; falsehood in art is so easy; truth, so difficult." You might say, then, if literature is to increase our awareness of life, and if it is to tell us the truth of life, shall we not have heavy, serious reading? My answer would be, "Definitely, no, because literature as well as life gives infinite variety to mood and form." Mark Twain could write A Connecticut Yankee and Tom Sawyer as well as Joan of Arc, and Shakespeare could write The Merry Wives of Windsor as well as King Lear; Dickens, Pickwick Papers as well as Nicholas Nickleby and A Tale of Two Cities. You might ask, "In my reading, shall I depend upon the suggestions of others who do not respond the same as I, even to the best books?" Any book will make a different appeal to us at a different time and under different circumstances; be- - cause someone recommends a book to you as being good, is no indication that it may be good for you at a particular time. If the book does not appeal to you, if it does not stir your emotions and your reactions, leave it and try something else. The test of whether any book is good for you is your emotional reaction, and that depends upon your background, your character, your mood of the moment and perhaps your literary training. There is need for variety in our RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE reading, a need for variety in books as in vitamins. We cannot all subsist on the same diet. I should say, discriminate taste in literature is a broad taste in literature, and there is a place for Wodehouse as well as Wordsworth, for Guest as well as Galsworthy, for the Saturday Evening Post as well as the Saturday Review of Literature. Teachers in the wards and stakes have a distinct opportunity. There are so many books that, obviously, none of us can read them all, and the unguided reader can wander bewildered through this maze of books. I suggest that occasionally you discuss briefly some of the great books which have not been included in our course of study. Impress upon the members that a book is not necessarily dull because it is great. Occasionally, give a list of great books. Surely, a reading of just a few of these will give us power of discrimination and a basis for appraising books now appearing that have not yet weathered the test of time. 745 Leaders must keep aware of the contemporary scene; we must occasionally suggest to our people new books that have won the praise of critics. Let our people know that fine books can be obtained in cheap editions; for example, the four novels by George Eliot can be purchased for $1.25, and there are even twenty-five cent editions of some very fine books. Leaders must have an intense love for literature, but in expressing our likes and dislikes, let us not assume a "holier than thou" attitude. Let us not make of our reading something heavy and too difficult, let us make it a delightful exploration, a glimpsing of other lands and other places, of many people, and of varied problems. Discrimination in reading is the weighing of books by their fidelity to life. Let us keep our vision high and clear, but at the same time broad and tolerant.