LITERATURE AND LIVING Elsie C. Carroll Brigham Young University ALL good literature has a close bearing upon everyday living. The purpose of our literature lessons is to help the members of the organization to feel this close relationship between life and literature and to gain the most significant values offered by the study of good books. Our literature lessons this year deal with novels, and they contribute tichly to life. Let us consider the lessons and how they might be presented to do what the General Board has planned. First of all, the literature teacher must have the right attitude. She herself must be enthusiastic about literature. She must see its values to herself and to her group. She must know from definite contact with it that it is the record of the best that has been thought and said in the world, that there is running all through all the great literature of 746 the world something of the idealism in humanity which (despite periods such as the present which seem to the contrary) keeps humanity striving upward. She must recognize that the chief value we get from a study of literature is a broadening and deepening of our experiences. We are in actual life limited within narrow bounds. Few of us have many great soul-stirring, actual experiences. But it is not so with the vicarious experiences we share with the characters of literature. In this realm, we can share the life of all classes of people in all ages; and so we widen our intellectual horizons by the knowledge we gain, deepen our emotional responses by sharing the joys and sorrows of great characters, learn new ethical principles by recognizing the ideals and dreams which have guided man through the ages. Thus, through these literary experiences, our personalities are developed and our lives are enriched. The teacher will keep in mind not only this constant need in our lives for the enrichment literature can give, but also the fact that there is a special value to be gained from great books at the present time. Now, when the world is in such turmoil, literature can give us the needed relief from the tension of the day's harrowing events. Furthermore, a knowledge of literature which shows us the oneness of life gives usa larger perspective of human events. We see the present in relation to the past and the future. So when we observe that the world has come through other periods of retrogression such as the present, with humanity still retaining that upward drive, we regain a hope for a better 

 

 day, for the ultimate triumph of tight. Besides being enthusiastic about literature, recognizing its relation to life, and seeing the great values it can contribute, the teacher should know the members of her group. She should understand their background, how much formal education they have had, how much literature they know. Perhaps, 'they have little literary background. If so, she must help them to recognize and desire what the lessons have to offer before she presents the material itself. She will want to know their experiences. This will help her to present work which they most need. There may be, for instance, individuals in her class who have need of some special type of help that literature can give. I know a college professor who is very much concerned about his sister, who had lived an active life as homemaker, but had never cultivated the habit of reading anything but newspapers and magazines. Now her children are grown and one by one are leaving the home. She has more and more leisure time. Recently her husband died, so she must adjust to a new life without him as well as without the work she has always done for her children. Her brother said, "If only she enjoyed books, what a blessing it would be to her now!" Perhaps there are many such women, and literature teachers can open the magical door to the fascinating world of literature for them. AFTER considering herself in relation to her work, and analyzing her group, the teacher comes to the definite subject matter of the course. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE This year we have three novels, each offering many values to those who study them. First, we will want to consider the authors, for we need to know something about them to get the most from what they write. These authors become our friends. Their philosophies are significant. They are important individuals; their background, their experiences, their special gifts are worth knowing. This year we have three gifted women writers. George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans), one of the world's greatest women novelists, gives us significant phases of life in Victorian England. She was the first great psychological novelist, taking her readers into the very minds and souls of her characters, letting them see what influences make her men and women what they are, depicting the far-reaching effects of apparently insignificant causes. Through showing us what makes her created characters do what they do, she helps us to understand all humanity better—our neighbors, our families, even ourselves. Adam Bede not only presents notable and interesting characters, some of whose philosophies enrich our own, but it shows the necessity of conformity to social traditions; it also re-creates a past period—a world new to us. Therefore, we learn much about England of the past in a way history cannot give it. Elizabeth Page, the author of The Tree of Liberty, I believe, is a young woman of great promise. She has a good heritage and has enjoyed unusual educational opportunities. She was always passionately fond of history and both as an undergraduate and as a graduate student did 747 special work in this field. To her, historical characters became vivid, living men and women. When she visited historical homes and scenes, the past seemed to become mote real than the present. She saw people and events of the past in their relation to each other and their period, and also-in relation to our time. With this special gift and with writing talent, it seems inevitable that she should give us a historical novel; but that she should have produced so great a book as The Tree of Liberty with little previous writing experience is phenomenal. She spent five years working on the book, reading everything she could find—history, documents, letters, diaries, novels—having to do with the fifty-year period in American history which her novel covers. Furthermore, she visited all places of significance mentioned in the novel and interviewed hundreds of people in order to get all the facts she needed to make her story historically true. The result is that she has given us. An authentic history and a stirring novel in one book. The novel, therefore, should appeal to all classes of readers. -It is no accident that it came to us at this time, but it is significantly fortunate; for we need today just what this book gives—a realization of how our democratic way of life came to be and an appreciation of the traditions which produced it. The story, too, has great interest and validity. Bess Streeter Aldrich is an old friend to many of you. You know A Lantern in Her Hand, White Bird Flying, and others of her books. She is a woman much like most of us— coming from pioneer stock, valuing 748 family life above all other things, guided by ideals of simple, wholesome living. Her novel, Song of Years, is a story of pioneer life of Iowa during the period of the Civil War. So she, too, restores the past and adds to the historical literature of our country. Her characters are men and women in the humble walks of life, and she shows us how interesting and noble, yet warmly human, such characters can be. She records experiences, emotions and ideals that belong to all of us. So she seems very near to us, almost as if she were writing our own story. THIS, in brief, is the subject matter of the course. Now, how should we present it in order to make it interesting and significant to the class? We must challenge the attention by appealing to the interest of most of the class members. If we have a group of women with little or no. Literary background, busy, tired women who have come to Relief Society meeting to rest and to be entertained, we will likely emphasize 'the story—at least start with it or some episode in it. We will perhaps need to do most of the work ourselves. We will not be satisfied, however, until we feel that we are giving the class members some of Social Service — 

 

 the more permanent values of literature. Perhaps we can make them feel the significance of the characters by talking of them as literary friends. We must try to make these great created characters real—our friends. With some groups, reading some of the philosophy will perhaps give a point of contact on qualities of style, or the pleasure that new information gives. In Adam Bede, for instance, we are shown how different classes in Victorian England lived, what kind of home life, religious and social life they had. The Tree of Liberty reflects customs of our Colonial day, the manifold duties on the big Southern estates, methods of traveling, the educational practices, politics, social affairs and so on. No matter what the approach, we must try to relate the particular novel to our lives, here, today. If we can help our classes to realize that good books are vital in their lives, widening their intellectual horizons, deepening their emotional lives, holding up before them ethical objectives and ideals, if we can create a desire to read good books for their deeper values, then our work will prove a joy and a blessing to our classes.