LOOKING FORWARD TO '42 Edith S. Elliott Relief Society General Board Member WE feel that plans should be under way immediately in each of the stakes of Zion for the centennial celebration of the Latter-day Saint Relief Society. An anniversary is a memorable occasion, but a centennial is a time for supreme rejoicing in past accomplishments, for satisfaction in working out present-day problems and for dedicating ourselves to even greater heights in the future. This oldest of women's organizations, which has functioned continuously for nearly 100 years, deserves the best and finest of commemorations. It is not one minute too soon for the stakes to make preparations for their local observances on March 17, 1942. Much time, research, preparation, inspiration and, in our case, many prayers, are needed to do justice to so worthy a cause. A centennial chairman should be appointed in each stake right away. She, preferably, should be one of the present members of the stake board. Choose the best and most talented person you have for the job. Have her form a committee and start working as soon as possible. We encourage you to work out your own programs, because you know your own community and its traditions best. You know what has made your locality unique. We hope each committee will look to the individual membership for assistance, so that each Latter-day Saint Relief Society woman may feel that she has actually contributed to this great occasion. You may ask, "How can we best celebrate in our own localities?" I RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE could best answer with another question: "What have we done with our century of opportunity and enlightenment?" In answering this, we can refer to the wealth of Relief Society material found in each little community where our Church is established. Go to your local Relief Society records. Read old diaries. Seek out the older people who have played so colorful a part in the beginning of towns and cities. Look for individual accomplishments made by Relief Society members. Acquaint yourselves with Relief Society group projects. Such interesting accounts can be found of the spiritual, physical, mental and financial aspects of life. An impressive story can be woven around the saving of Sunday eggs for the purchase of wheat. Another could tell of the installation of a water system at the instigation of Relief Society workers. There are faith-promoting incidents, sacred to a given section. One stake already reports that they will have an all-day celebration with 765 luncheon and dinner as a big feature. Another stake's aim is for a complete scrapbook; another, a roll of honor upon which the names of all members in that stake for the centennial year will be listed. One stake seeks to honor all its past stake Relief Society presidents. Others plan to do honor in song, story, drama, pageantry, tableau, and poetry. One stake will collect literary and musical selections produced by local talent. In gathering historical facts, let them live and breathe. Combine realism with symbolism. Let each story vibrate with purposeful meaning. To tell a story is one thing, but to tell it in such a way that it will stimulate someone to an appreciation of events and enable them to carry home a wholesome thought, is quite another. Don't lose sight of the humorous situations that add spice to any undertaking. Let your efforts make for a complete Relief Society symphony.