THE WARD PRESIDENT'S RESPONSIBILITY TO THE VISITING TEACHERS Alice B. Castleton Relief Society General Board Member Jesus Christ said, "Let him who is greatest among you, be servant of all." JESUS, the greatest leader of all men, gave us the finest example of true leadership that has ever been known in the world. Before he finished his work upon the earth, he left with his disciples the power of spiritual leadership. In a book written by Arthur Jones, called Education for Youth in Leadership, he says, "Leadership is the process of securing cooperation of a group, working toward a goal that they accept as desirable." Again, he says, "Leadership is interested in how people can be brought together for a common end, effectively and happily." There is always a place in every 766 walk of life for leaders; and in this Church, there is a place for women who have a testimony of the Gospel, women who have the desire and power to love their fellowmen, women who are blessed with the essential qualifications that every real leader should possess. Maybe some of you are familiar with the story of a great general who called his son to his bedside for advice and counsel. The father had been one of the world's greatest generals. He was about to die, and his son had been chosen as his successor. Anxious for his son's success, he gave him the secret of leadership. He said, "My son, if you expect to become a great general, you must make your men believe that you are the bravest man in the army, that you have greater endurance, and that you know more about military tactics than any other man; that you have broader understanding and greater sympathy than any other man in the army." The son, bewildered by what the father had told him, asked, "How can I make my men believe this of me?" The father's answer was unmistakable. He said, "My son, be that man." Leadership and responsibility go hand in hand. We know that the strength of an organization depends largely upon its leadership. In my opinion, there are four essential qualifications for successful leadership: intelligence, initiative, sympathy, impartiality. A ward president, too, must have an abiding faith in the cause she represents. She must have faith in the women with whom she is working, and faith in the divine guidance 

 

 of God. She will have some knowledge of all phases of the Relief Society and understand its ideals, history and motives. She will be keenly aware of the importance of the visiting teachers as messengers from the organization to the people of the wards, and as messengers from the people to the Society. She will instruct them that their first duty is to live this glorious Gospel. She will impress them with the fact that the organization was founded and is directed by divine guidance, and that to those who are diligent in the performance of their duties, spiritual, mental and social development is the award awaiting them. A president will inspire her teachers to be kind, tolerant and self-reliant, and she will endeavor to win their love and confidence. THE activity of the visiting teachers has stood the test of nearly 100 years. Perhaps no other activity in the Relief Society provides greater opportunity for unselfish service. Through this system of monthly, friendly visiting, teachers are privileged to visit people who have no social contacts; they go into broken homes and homes where death reigns; they are privileged to go into homes that are examples of fine living and culture. They are enlistment workers. They find many women in their districts who, through a little personal interest, will become active members. By calling attention to the educational program and also the activities of the work-and-business day, they awaken interest. They also encourage young mothers to become members. "Beautiful friendships tried by sun and wind, durable from the daily dust of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE life," are made through this work. A president should select women as visiting teachers who are endowed with great wisdom and who are faithful to every trust. "And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble, full of love, having faith, hope, charity, being temperate in all things whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care." (Doc. and Cov. 12:8) Perhaps there is greater need for efficient visiting teaching today than ever before. We are living in a world of trouble and chaos. The problems that are facing us are many, and there is need for spiritual guidance in our work. Our leaders tell us: "The greatest need in the world today is a return to religion and faith in God." The visiting teachers who have faith in God will inspire confidence in the people whom they visit. Henry Adams once said, "A teacher affects eternity. She can never tell where her influence stops." Great happiness and satisfaction come through service. We have at present 2,800 visiting 767 teachers who represent the Relief Society in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. The majority of them are women who are faithful to their duties, women who have a testimony of the Gospel and who are upholding the standards of the Church. President Grant once said, "No man can teach this Gospel who does not live it." Relief Society presidents are called by the Priesthood of God and are given the divine authority to lead, guide, and instruct the visiting teachers and to inspire them to magnify their calling. They are tireless in their devotion to their responsibilities, and they are exerting a profound influence upon the conduct of their visiting teachers. I am sure these fine women will be richly rewarded for the services they render, and that they will realize the promises made to the faithful by the Lord: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of our Lord."