Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 5 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, February 18, 1941) LESSON TOPICS 1. Brief review 2. Historical characters 3. Fictional characters 4. Methods of character revelation 5. Study helps BRIEF REVIEW The last lesson considered the author's life and her particular contribution in The Tree of Liberty. This book aims to make us Americans aware of those strains and influences in our past which should help us to face more wisely our critical present and future. The two-fold significance of the book?historical and fictional?was mentioned, with a suggestion of the intellectual values which may be gained from the facts as well as the emotional value from the dramatic situations. A brief summary of the historical background and of the plot was given. HISTORICAL CHARACTERS Every novel has three essential elements: setting, characters and plot. Our chief interest often lies in the characters. Even if the author emphasizes one of the other elements, he ordinarily does it through the characters. We see the setting through its effect upon the characters, or their reaction to it. We realize the plot, of course, through the characters. The fact that some of the chief figures in The Tree of Liberty are historical adds to the interest in the book; for we see these men alive, in the very activities which gave them a place in history. Some one has said that history tells us what people did, but literature tells us how they felt, which is often more important. And so, in her restoration of the past, Miss Page lets us into the secret places of these great men's personalities, and we see the motives behind their actions, the dreams, the visions, and the courage which are a part of our American heritage. Space will not permit an analysis of these characters, but a few points may help us to see them in their fictionalized roles. Washington was one who helped to nurture the tree of liberty. Early in the book, we are made aware of the force of his character. He seems to be a man of destiny, for he impressed upon those who knew him, even when he was a young colonel in Braddock's Army, that he "was a great-natured man to hold fast to? a great strong man that sets his face to do a thing and will never give in, a man to follow to the day you die." It was this characterization of him by Matthew Howard's uncle that made him a lifelong hero to Matt. The impression was deepened when he first saw Washington (see Ch. I, pp. 32-35) and on various later occasions during the years that followed the Revolution. Once, when it seemed that the ideals Washington was fighting for were about to be lost, he gave a speech which we might listen to with profit today. The occasion was to consider an anonymous letter which had subtly condemned all that had been done, and suggested a return to subservience to England: "Let me conjure you as you value your honor, as you respect the rights of humanity, as you regard the national character of America, to express your utmost horror and detestation of the man who wishes to overthrow the liberties of our country, and who wickedly attempts to deluge our rising empire with blood. By thus determining you will give one more proof of unexampled patriotism and patient virtue, and you will by the dignity of your conduct afford occasion for posterity to say, "Had this day been wanting, the world had never seen the last stage of perfection to which human nature is capable of attaining.' " Others, like Washington, alive and warmly human, move majestically through the pages of the book. There is Patrick Henry, sometimes mistaken as to the rightness of his ideals, but never lacking in earnestness and eloquence. We can feel his magnetic power when a frontier admirer tells of a speech he had heard which shook the hearts of both his foes and friends with terror.