Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 4 Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day (Tuesday, February 25, 1941) YES, there is some equality in the capital stock with which every human being begins life in this world. Twenty-four hours per day is the allotment of everyone, and not a single minute can be added or subtracted therefrom. The number of days which makes up the life of each one varies widely, but the difference in the degree of success attained by one as compared with another is determined by the quality of life rather 792 than the quantity. Raise the quality of the life of an individual just a little each day and the sum total of achievement is multiplied many fold. The difference in quality depends more upon the manner in which one uses his margin of time than upon the amount of time used in the routine of living. The use of a certain amount of time in the routine of living is determined for everyone by definite life needs. Comparatively little freedom is afforded one in the choice of activities involved in these routine phases of living. The budget based on the twenty-four hour unit conforms to about the following schedule: 8 hours sleep, 8 hours for vocational pursuits, 1? hours for eating?15 minutes for breakfast, 30 minutes for lunch, and 45 minutes for dinner (this is far more time than many people use for eating, but not more than they should use if they eat healthfully), 30 minutes for personal grooming, and one hour for miscellaneous needs?a total of 19 hours. Therefore, only five hours remain for one to use according to his choice. In so short a period, what can one accomplish that is worthwhile? Now, let us see according to this schedule how many so-called free hours one may have in a year: 5 hours per day for seven days, plus 8 hours released from vocational duties on Sunday, add up to 43 hours; 43 hours per week for 52 weeks add up to 2,236 hours per year, or 93 1/6 days or an average of 3 months. We do have time; but what do we do with it? One consoling speculation is the difference between time and money in regard to the saving aspect of each. In order to save money, we must put 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1940

 it away somewhere and keep it; but in order to save time, we must spend it. Merely to "pass the time away" is a wicked use of time. It invites worry, self-pity, imaginary illnesses, general discontent, and many other harmful and vicious forms of mental indulgence. Abraham Cowley said, "There is no saying shocks me so much as that which I hear very often, 'that a man does not know how to pass his time.' It would have been but ill-spoken by Methuselah in the nine hundred and sixty-ninth year of his life." TO be a member of a successful family group is one of the most powerful safeguards against the misuse of time, because the time, energy, and ingenuity of every member of such a group is called upon to plan for successful family living on twenty-four hours a day. Training for family living on twenty-four hours a day should begin when the child is born. Those who have had this training and who habitually make use of it according to their ability, are in the best position to train the future generation. Fortunate, indeed, is the child who has been chosen to take up his abode as the offspring of parents who have learned the wise use of time. Let us turn our attention to some of the requisites for qualitative family living made possible when our daily plan of life is based on twenty-four hours, no more, no less. Should not our attitude toward the proper evaluation of time come first? Theophrastus, the Greek philosopher, declared that time was the most valuable thing that a man could spend.