[Vol23 | December 1936 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: home economics]

home economics, are creating a real challenge to parents to keep abreast of the times.
Mothers must realize that children thrive better on a well-balanced diet, and that knowledge of such a diet comes only with a study of the latest findings along that line.
Fathers should understand that the methods of all kinds of mechanical work are constantly being improved and revolutionized.
These are the skills of livelihood.
They are the basis of our physical needs. But of equal importance to the changes that are constantly taking place in these lines and bearing a very close interrelation to them is another phase of our existence?the art of living together in group life. Of necessity, the science of human relations has undergone simultaneous changes because of the interdependence of the two phases of living. The mechanical changes may be easier to measure, but the social changes are just as marked if we but perceive them.
Although technology may seem to have changed the world more for the benefit of the few than the good of all, the unmistakable ideal of social betterment is gradually replacing the past ideals of American freedom which were ruled by the theory of catch as catch can, and may the best man, win regardless of the harm done to others or the evil of exploitation.
Human living is now on a plane so entirely different from that of a generation ago that adults must renew their studies in the light of the present. However, despite this fact, many homes are maintained in an atmosphere belonging to the past while the children are being taught the latest social developments in school. Is it any wonder that misunderstandings arise and points of view between parents and children are strained? The challenge of increased educational facilities and enlarged opportunity is bound to conflict with the ideas of adults, unless adulthood keeps in step with the times.
Such a conflict LESSON DEPARTMENT is bound to create confusion in the minds of youth. The following quotation supports this point of view: "Unless adults learn to reshape their ideas in relation to the work they are trying to do in providing opportunities for growth for their children, youth, itself, will not be prepared to meet the complexities of the modern world which they must share with adults, and adults must share with youth." (White House Conference, p. 37.) Adults who persistently cling to the traditions, habits of discipline, and obedience to the regulations and customs of a passing period which they acquired in their o&n youthful days are at times quite incapable of meeting youth with any degree of understanding. But they should realize that they must keep in tune with the changes in the social world if they are to continue to hold the respect of young people and to be of constructive service in their guidance. "We cannot bend the ideas of youth back to the old order, nor restrain the advance of a society so swiftly changing. We must make ourselves a creating part of this onward moving stream." In regard to the necessity of adult education leaders are formulating statements of trends and policies of social changes.
Three generalizations drawn from the "Charter of the Social Sciences," by Charles A. Beard, point out the burden of our educational practice today. First, the society in which we live is rapidly changing. The old order under which adults were schooled is giving way to new interpretations of life. If adults are to adapt to the new conditions of life, the problem is one demanding constant attention. Its solution requires ability to meet changing situations with a knowledge of scientific facts. The new adult 793 education is planned to provide such knowledge. It has been organized to help people as far as possible to understand these challenging situations so that changes may be made intelligently. The fact must be recognized that the economic individualism of pioneer days is being replaced by different types of social and economic planning, dependent upon collective efforts.
According to the principles of democratic governments the wishes of the people cannot be overlooked if they are intelligently defined. The second conditioning factor of life today is the organization of life on a basis of science and machinery. Our civilization may be called technological as distinguished from one founded on agriculture and handcraft. But the present state of economic and social confusion is evidence that some form of social, economic planning is essential to the continued functioning of the newer means of production.
Skilled artisans can never be certain that a new machine will not render their craft useless before they have reached middle life. The obligation of all adults to adapt to these new conditions of life also demands constant solution. And here, again, knowledge of scientific facts is necessary. Third: Whatever solution is evolved must be in harmony with the basic principles of human rights and should contribute to the end of political, economic, and social democracy.
Unless the present generation continues to cultivate the practice of thinking critically and constructively upon these questions of social reform it will be inadequate in rendering intellgient judgments. But the individuals who decide policies of government as a result of well thought out conclusions in place of popular hearsay are too few indeed. 794
The agencies provided for the enlightenment of adults are constantly increasing.
Each is trying to provide a broad intellectual preparation for modern life. A marked tendency is shown for older people to seek opportunities for self-improvement.
Public schools conduct evening classes for instruction for those who had limited educational opportunities.
Citizenship classes prepare for more intelligent participation in the affairs of government.
Night schools, extension courses, and correspondence courses furnish additional training in vocational and allied fields. The extent to which people are availing themselves of these facilities is revealed by the fact that in 1930 approximately 1,000,000 people were registered in night classes in elementary schools, high schools, and vocational schools.
Since that time the number has increased remarkably.
Extension and correspondence courses offered by universities have so increased the number of available courses that the earnest seeker can now secure instruction in almost any line of learning desired.
While much that is offered over the radio is still far from educational it is growing to be an important educational agency. The world's finest music is brought to all the people as part of their everyday life.
Aesthetic and cultural opportunities are not stinted.
Talks on art are brought to every one. But many people refuse the best that is offered for the more popular forms of entertainment. But the radio would provide greater and greater opportunities for broadening educational experiences if the desire were evidenced. No broadcasting company would dare to sponsor a program that did not meet the popular approval of the average adult audience. The type of movie sponsored is the one where adults render RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their approval at the box offices. The press is always responsive to its readers.
Until adults further cultivate ideals tempered by social welfare and express those ideals in tangible forms the need for further adult education will continue to be one of the most important needs of the hour. To the Latter-day Saint, education is viewed as a continuous process, a part of the great scheme of eternal progression. It begins with birth and continues not only for life, but, we believe in the hereafter. The Prophet, Joseph Smith, has given us a splendid understanding and goal to achieve as shown by the following statements taken from his teachings: "If one man, by his diligence obtains more knowledge than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." "Whatsoever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life will rise with us in the resurrection." "Knowledge saves a man, and in the world of spirits no man can be exalted but by knowledge." '"'A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." "Tt is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "The glory of God is intelligence." (Joseph Smith, The Prophet Teacher, p. 65.) Activities 1.
Determine the relative number of adults in your community who are continuing their education by means other than.
Attendance at Church organization meetings. 2.
Prepare a list of the available classes open to adults in your community. 3.
What trend is indicated by the subjects offered and the relative enrollment in the various subjects? "Does the trend indicate a healthy choice for social welfare? Child Guidance Lesson V JEALOUSY FEW emotions are experienced by man which from a social point of view are more important than jealousy, and perhaps no emotion is so dependent upon early environmental conditions for its development. It arouses anger and frequently hatred toward the object of jealousy. It causes the jealous individual to feel disregarded and inferior to his friends and neighbors, it damages his pride, and it lowers his self-respect.
This may produce a desire for revenge and retaliation or may cause him to withdraw and hide his true feelings under a mask of indifference. We are all familiar with one or more of our friends or acquaintances who have what we call a jealous disposition. Not only are they jealous in reference to their love and friendships, but also of good fortune which falls to others.
Pleasure and happiness can be only temporary for this type of individual.
Their satisfaction with life is constantly being interrupted by their attitude toward the achievement and happiness of others. One of the most common situations which stimulates jealousy in the child is the birth of a new baby.
This is not surprising when quite suddenly and unexpectedly this child of 3 or 4 finds his mother devoting practically all her time to the intruder. It may be that the child has been through a period of worry and upset.
Often the older child is sent away during the mother's confinement.
This may be the first time he has ever been away from home, and adults can little appreciate what this may mean to him, even though he ty be with the most well-meaning of relatives. His entire world is in upheaval. How can he know that it will ever come right again? He puzzles his little head over this, is told time and again that he is going back to mother and daddy, but when he gets there he appears to be supplanted. Or it may be that he stays at home, and mother is taken away to the hospital with little or no explanation to him.
Again he is faced with an upset world. Why has mother left him?
Will she really come home again?
Then she comes, but not with undivided attention for him. Mother's love and attention must be shared; small wonder that feelings of hatred for the baby are aroused. However, this attitude toward the new-born baby can invariably be overcome if the older child is confided in and told that he may expect a new little brother or sister. He then awaits its arrival with interest and pleasant anticipation.
Handled wisely, what might be a most unpleasant event in his life becomes a real pleasure which will mean companionship and a new playmate, some one to care for and protect.
This sense of responsibility will work out to the advantage of both children. If, in the course of events, the older child does become jealous of the baby, never foster this attitude by teasing or encouraging it, or by looking upon it as something that is "funny" or "cunning." The emotions of childhood are far too dangerous to be toyed with in this way.
Intelligent parents will find numerous ingenious ways to convince the child that he is still just as much loved and as important a member of 796 the household as he was before the "usurper" arrived. It is simply a matter of giving the older child a little more time and attention and a little assurance that he still holds the affection of those he loves.
Often a child will become markedly jealous when the parents show affection for each other or for children outside the family circle.
Unfortunately parents not appreciating the gravity of such a demonstration are frequently flattered by the child's resentment.
This interesting and unusual display of emotion appeals to them and they term it "cute," making every effort to perpetuate and exaggerate it and even arousing it for show purposes when visitors come in. In one case the daily delight of the father of a little girl of 2 was to incite her to wrath on his return from work by cuddling the baby sister and ignoring the older child.
This continued treatment has so warped her outlook that at 5 she stands at odds with the world, disliked by family and playmates, defiant, belligerant, and frequently inaking vicious attacks upon the sisters by whom she feels she has been supplanted. This, of course, is an exaggerated instance, but situations of this sort are far more common than most people suspect. Again, jealousy is aroused in one child by the constant praising and holding up of brother or sister as a model or persistently pointing out shortcomings and defects in the child who is inclined to be jealous.
Nothing is more disastrous than playing the merits and abilities of one child against those of another. It causes feelings of bitterness, resentment, inferiority, and inadequacy. No family is big enough to play favorites or show partiality. In order to avoid as far as possible the development of jealousy in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child it is necessary to deal with that common characteristic of childhood called selfishness. The chlid must learn that he has certain obligations toward his family and later toward the community in which he lives. As early as possible he must begin to think of what he does and what he says in relation to other individuals and how his words and acts affect them. He will be repeatedly told that such and such an attitude in a given time or place is right or wrong. He will live in an environment where he can see that his pleasures and those of others are being considered by each member of the household. Thus, long before he can reason why, he will have acquired certain habits, developed largely through suggestion and imitation. The jealous child is apt to be one who in early life has not had the opportunity of developing interests outside himself. The only child is in a position to become self-centered.
This is especially true if this child has been brought up in a crowded section of the city where he is confined to limited quarters with no companionship except that of his mother. He is, to be sure, monarch of all that is within his reach, but his field is far too limited. He has no knowledge nor chance to gain knowledge of the interests and activities of other children. The same holds true in a greater or less degree with a child who, by illness or accident, has been prevented from making early contacts with other children and has had only the companionship of an oversolicitous mother. He, too, becomes impressed with his own importance. Not infrequently one child in a family is especially favored by one parent or the other, being protected not from experiences but from the natural LESSON DEPARTMENT consequences of those experiences.
Such children in later life are of the type who fail to recognize superiority of others and are intolerant and resentful toward authority. It is fairly safe to assume that if a child can be taught habits of unselfishness in the home, where his personal attachments are strongest and where he would naturally have more provocation to jealousy, and can learn to meet successfully the situations which develop there, he will encounter little or no difficulty from this emotional handicap when he gets outside. If it so happens that there are no other children in the home, every effort should be made to bring the child into association with children outside, even at the risk of physical dangers in the street and the chance of picking up some of the vocabulary of the alley. The child should be taught to share his toys and playthings, his candy, books, and pennies with other children. In games he must learn to strive for the good of the group and not for personal achievement. If defeated, he must learn to acknowledge better playing and take it with a smile.
Children should learn to play many games with fair ability rather than to excel in one particular game. 'There is a great tendency, not only on the part of children but on the part of adults as well, to cling to the things they do exceptionally well and retire from the field of activity where they do not excel.
Unselfish conduct should always be rewarded by commendations and occasionally by something of a material nature.
There is certainly no disadvantage in the child's learning from experience that, selfishness is not a paying proposition. It is the jealous child who becomes the jealous man or woman. As a 797 child he encounters innumerable difficulties in getting on with his playmates.
Because of this he develops a sense of failure and shame which is a tremendous handicap. He feels wronged and neglected; he has missed a "square deal." His selfcenteredness becomes more marked, and he draws away from his playmates and the activities of life thoroughly discouraged; or he may become domineering and pugnacious in an effort to gain attention for himself.
Later in life this emotion causes an inability to share in the joys of others and makes it impossible to see others succeed without manifesting open resentment. The jealous person becomes an object of dislike.
Often he develops the idea that he is unjustly treated or persecuted, and all too frequently this idea causes uncontrolled resentment and disastrous results.
Study your child.
Find out why he behaves as he does. Is he aggressive, belligerent and defiant? Is he sullen and resentful, or does he explode in outbursts of temper which clear the atmosphere? It may be that he is shy, quiet, and always a model of good behavior, letting life slip past him without taking an active part.
Think the thing over; try to see his reasoning.
Remember that the attitude he is showing may be the very opposite of what he really feels.
Aggressiveness and defiance may be a mask for feelings of failure and discouragement; passive indifference may cover deeply wounded feelings. On the other hand, the child's conduct may be only the result of limitation and may be patterned after an admired "grown-up" or child with whom he comes in contact.