[Vol23 | December 1936 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Magic of Boyer]
The
Magic of Christmas 
By Claire Stewart Boyer child we cannot enter the heaven of Christmas. In the hearts of women today has crept a fear that Christmas, over commercialized, is losing its glory.
There is a feeling that it is circumscribed by a bank account, and that emphasis on toys, plastered with prices, has increased worry and decreased joy.
With the approach of the holidays there is often a sigh, brows are furrowed, and remarks are made that seem to detract from Christmas. But the glory of Christmas can never fade.
Song and story will keep it the Day of Days, and the heart of the world will be renewed by its love and peace forever. But there is another virtue of Christmas that is in grave danger? its magic is waning. To the magic of the season then we can turn our thought, and the secret of this magic is in the heart of a child. Why is it we yield our own desires and turn so completely from them to make Christmas real? It is partly because of the Christ to be sure, but also partly because the heart of a child is so adequate. He is able to sense and to give the intangibles to the day. He feels the love behind the gift, he evaluates not in dollars but in thoughtfulness. He lifts us to a high plane of spirituality by his emotional radiation.
Impulsively he will say, "I'd like to give Jimmy a present this year, he seems so kind of lonely," or "Wouldn't it be fun to surprise Mrs, Adams? She'd never think I'd remember her," or "I've been thinking for a long time about what would make Aunt Abbie happiest," and if his litU aia we become as a little tle dreams can be carried out without a budget he will indeed create the magic of Christmas. AJAGIC and money are seldom found on the same shelf, anymore than fairy tales and economics are found in the same book.
Both are a part of life but the longer we. Can keep them separate the happier we will be. Now if a child could choose he would always take the fairy stories, that is if his tastes have not been marred by careless or rigid supervision. And yet he is not such a spend-_ thrift. Ask a child to write down the gifts he would like to make, then stipulate an allowance to let the money determine his choices. See how his eyes lose their luster and his mind becomes uncomfortable.
