The Ante-Room of Heaven (Timpanogos Cave) By Minnie J. Hardy
The district attorney of a certain county which shall be nameless says: "When a man travels around a good deal he is seeking one of three things: health, wealth or information; but when a woman goes sailing around on a concrete ocean she is just a natural gad-about born with A wandering heel." He even goes so far as to say that some women are not good citizens because they do not stay at home long enough to vote. But regardless of the narrow and apparently biased opinion of my able opponent (as the lawyers say) I decided to "see America first." I went and saw:
A few weeks ago I arrived in the interesting, historic and enterprising City-of-the-Saints, one of the finest cities in the United States and an everlasting monument to the splendid faith and courage of the early pioneers. Last Sunday, in company with B. A. Booster, The Guest-From-Berkley, The Charming-One, The Little Maiden and The Splendid-Woman, in a high-powered Fierce Sparrow, we glided away over the great, broad highway bordered on either side with sun-flowers, golden-rod, poplar trees, green fields, ripening grain and clover blossoms, through the thriving town of American Fork, past Utah Lake, shimmering like a sheet of gunmetal in the sunlight, then a little south and east to American Fork Canyon, a savage gorge cut deep in the mountains by a wild stream; scenic grandeur that offers the tourist thrills worth traveling across the continent to enjoy, and where Mount Timpanogos, scarred by age-old torrents, yet majestic in his rugged grandeur, rears his regal head twelve thousand feet above the sea and looks down upon us smilingly, serene, a symbol of the mighty power of the Eternal; reverential joy and an ever increasing love for Utah filled my heart.


Booster parked the car at the ranger station, secured tickets at the small sum of fifty cents each, and we prepared for the great adventure. The government has constructed a good trail which decreases the difficulty, increases the charm, and makes climbing comparatively easy. After we had past the thirty-second turn, or so it seemed to me, we reached Inspiration Point. "Oh how wonderful!" exclaimed The Charming One. "Perfectly marvelous! Whatever would Lusinda think if she could see this magnificent scenery?" "Quite a contrast from the level state of Indiana," answered The Splendid-Woman. "Sublime, superb, supreme! Talk about your inexplicable thrills!" Berkley removed his hat. "Whoever said anything about Yellowstone Park, this suits me and here I rest."
Aroused from my meditations and visions of the great Brigham Young and his little band of followers who first saw the green valley sleeping in the distance, I answered, "This is the place." Booster urged us to proceed up, up, up,—gracious! Would we never reach the top? "Is your heart all right?" asked someone. "Oh, yes, my heart is O, K., but for once in my life I am short winded," I managed to gasp between pants. "Thank goodness," murmured a voice in the distance. "I beg your pardon, did you speak?" I inquired. "Oh, no, I just remarked, I am glad we have surmounted so many turns and have at last covered about half of our journey. We will proceed to ascend." Booster was addressing no one in particular, "What a relief, after all he didn't seem to rejoice in my inability to talk."
Finally we reached the top, our lungs full of rarified air, the distilled atmosphere sweeping against our cheeks, and the glory of God seen on every hand and proclaimed in every sound of wind or drip of waterfall. A reception committee of one, an obliging young cave man, greeted us and opened a ponderous door. I recalled the words of the immortal Dante, "Abandon hope, all ye who enter here." I looked around for Cerberus, the three-headed monster that guards the gates of the nether world, and started to say my prayers when a sepulchral voice quoted from St. Paul, or was it T. R.? I have quite forgotten for the moment just who wrote those lines, "Let him who is without a sin, arise and follow me." I arose, hesitated, faltered, my past life flashed before me. Berkley and two little Joy Miners, whom we met on the trail, followed the guide. I knew it was going to be a close shave, but thought if they could "get by" surely I could squeeze in.
In the cave—how cold, damp and dark it seemed. The guide turned on a small electric light. "Very interesting" someone remarked. Yes, it did seem so, and yet no sight of the three-headed THE ANTE-ROOM OF HEAVEN 391 creature. A water formation that resembled large icicles hung from the roof of the crypt-like cavern. We moved on through a narrow corridor that gradually became a crevice in the rocks, performed some Delsarte exercises, doubled up like so many jack-knives and crept along the narrow passage. "Ouch!" I bumped my head on a sharp point of rock, but no harm done. "Low bridge," called Booster. Like so many thieves in the night we crept on. Then the cave man touched a button.
The Illumination
Oh, how wonderful! How exquisitely beautiful, marvelous, beyond description; an immense banquet hall, blazing with brilliant, sparkling, iridescent chandeliers, decorated with bouquets and garlands of lovely white flowers, an opalescent, radiant, shimmering display of regal splendor. Every moment I expected to
[THE CHANDELIERS]


see Minerva glide out from some hidden bower and bid us welcome to her enchanted fairyland. Somewhere in the distance the guide was saying, "Here we have the mourning doves." Could it be possible, was there really something more to see? Two little white doves perched upon a point of rock held our attention for a moment. "Here's Thor's Hammer, Neptune's Fork, Cupid's Arrow, the Giant's Comb, and Lady Prosperpines Grotto." "Now step this way please," and there, amid yards and yards of priceless lace, caught up in bow knots with rosettes and clusters of night blooming Cereus, was the heart of Timpanogos. The heavens and earth all passed away and rolled up into a scroll. The pearly gates swung wide and we entered the "Ante-Room-of-Heaven."
Booster gasped, the Charming One held her breath, Berkley unknowingly clasped the hand of the Splendid Woman, the Little Maiden clapped her hands for joy, while I pinched myself to see if I had really "passed over." For here, hidden in the depths of this great mountain, was the Heart of the World, the master piece of the great Master Artist. Never anywhere in all my years of wandering (and I have seen many world-famed places of interest) have I seen anything so infinitely beautiful as this great transparent
[THE HEART OF TIMPANOGOS]
heart suspended from the roof of the cave. To some it seemed like an immense calla lily hanging by a slender stem. "If you will look beneath this ledge you will see the doves' THE ANTE-ROOM OF HEAVEN 393 nests." We did, and there was a delicately formed nest of twigs and leaves as natural as any found in the wildwood. "And here the baby's hand." "Oh, Henry, do come here," called the Charming One. "Isn't it darling, just too cute for words?" She pressed her husband's arm affectionately. "Yes, my dear, indeed it is," was the gentle response of the devoted Henry. "Truly, I think if Michael Angelo would come back to earth he could not carve anything more natural than those tiny, dimpled fingers, smooth as satin and white as driven snow."
"This, friends, is the Bride's Bouquet." An immense bouquet of roses and lilies tied with streamers of white ribbon was hang-
[THE BRIDE'S BOUQUET]
ing high on the marble wall and every ledge from ceiling to floor was decorated with garlands of forget-me-nots, lilies-of-the-valley and silver ferns, and, as if to make this underground corridor still more beautiful, Mother Nature had tucked and pinned clusters of 
 little cactus blossoms everywhere. The guide said, "These flowers are formed by wind currents."—but who knows?
A step to the right and we stood beneath the Angel's wings. Shades of Noah Webster and Daniel, too, come to my rescue! I am dumb with awe and admiration, out of words and out of breath. "How can I meet the Angel Gabriel in these hiking garments? Dear me, I do wish I had worn my pale-blue gown, I might have been a little more generous with cousin Caroline; however, I did help the Community Chest." I closed my eyes expecting to stand before the great White Throne at the next turn, I waited but nothing happened. The Charming One touched my arm. "Oh, how exquisite! What a kaleidoscope of dainty prismatic shades! It is just simply inconceivable." For a moment I thought she was wandering in her mind; but no, there beneath those feathery wings was a miniature lake, blue as a robin's egg, reflecting the formation in colors of rose, pearl and azure, like a rainbow in the moonlight. Silence reigned supreme; but only for a moment.
As we proceeded the feet of the Splendid Woman slipped and down she went right into Father Time's Jewel Box. "Goodness, mother, are you hurt?" Booster ran to rescue his maternal parent. "No, son," she laughed, "Now don't get excited, this is the first time in my life I ever had the chance to sit in the lap of luxury, and now that I am here I am in no hurry to leave." And there she sat, looking very natural and life-like in the midst of all that celestial splendor. When we pulled her out she said the scenery was heavenly, but the setting was a little too severe, and she did not like the plot, it was entirely too damp for a member of the Dry Federation.
I was intoxicated with the magnificence of my surroundings and had no desire to move; but that horrid cave man, like some Imp of the Evil One, with a flaming sword of electricity, hurried us on. "Low bridge," crawl, slip, up some steps, down a long slide to Ceres' Vegetable Garden where carrots, beets, artichokes and the humble but powerful onion grew in profusion, and as if to furnish a perfect dinner for a politician or hungry traveler, Ceres had picked a chicken and dressed a duck and hung them up among the vegetables. Our attention was called to the Parade of the Elephants, four natural, life-sized elephant heads peeped at us from a corner of the corridor; and, as if to make the circus complete, with a steam calliope, the guide struck one of the stalactites with a small stick, "these are the chimes," he explained. A sound clear as a Chinese bell resounded through the cave. Another tuned to a higher note, then as he struck a stalagmite that extended from the floor we heard the echo of a blacksmith's hammer on a heavy anvil; then the bass note of a modern saxophone. "Indeed, that chap THE ANTE-ROOM OF HEAVEN 395 will be able to play in a jazz orchestra before many moons or I miss my guess," observed the Splendid Woman.
In another chamber the stalagmites rise and meet the dripping crystal stalactites in a family reunion making a fantastic maze of colonnades and scroll work like the railing on an old fashioned veranda.
Back to earth, our names signed on the government register, we returned to Inspiration Point to take a last look at the distant peaks in their flaming robes of Autumn gorgeousness. The atmosphere seemed filled with lyric harmony; my weary soul, in tune with the infinite, I could look through the tantalizing witchery of the clouds away into Eternity until it seemed there was only a thin veil between our small earth and the Master Builder. But, oh, the flame of sunset, crimson glows, blend with the purple of the on-coming night. These cliffs are gold-of-ophir, sun-dyed rose and rainbow-hued, like opals sparkling bright, "The Heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth His handiwork." The afterglow kisses the clouds and transforms the mountain peaks into tiny volcanoes. Luna's twilight candles to light us on our journey home. But still we linger. Booster reminds us, "It is getting late, and it looks like rain. A storm is coming up!" "Oh, I love it, I love it, I love it. I just simply love a great big crashing, smashing storm in the mountains," exclaimed the Charming One. "I love to watch the Storm God sharpening his
[SYLVIA'S BABY]


teeth on the flint and steel in the mountains, twisting the tree tops and frightening the cougars, fire flashing from his nostrils as he goes galloping through the clouds, hurling his mighty forces in fierce tumult against the unwavering battlements of old Thor, and—" "Sylvia, have you lost your senses, sharpening his teeth on flint and steel, tumults and battlements, where do you get that stuff? Do come on, have you forgotten you have a baby at home that would like to see his mother some time tonight?" Booster spoke in a married voice. "Yes, yes, darling, I am coming." Far away in the distance I thought I could hear a child crying and hurried after the flying Sylvia.
Soon the Fierce Sparrow was sailing over the concrete sea. Back to earth and earthly cares and responsibilities. "My! If California only had that cave it would be so well advertised the trail would be covered with tourists the year round." Berkley cast a longing look back at Old Timp. For one brief never-to-be-forgotten hour we had enjoyed the Ante-Room-of-Heaven and were loath to leave it; but consoled ourselves with the thought that we still had a little bit of heaven waiting for us at home in the shape of Sylvia's baby.
Let Me be a Friend Eugene L. Roberts
Let me be a friend, and spare My friend the needless hurt Of "friendly" fault revealing. Rather than parade his errors made Before his tolerant soul, Let me teach mankind his good to find, To view him as a whole, A rich complex of Being.
Let me be a friend, and spare My world the needless fear, Of doubt's cold endless freezing, Rather than expose life's sickening woes And blight man's happiest moods, Let me clear the way that he may pray, Unquestioning to his God, His ancient faith appeasing,