			ZINE S. WHITNEY.

	PRIOR to the inception of the Ladies
Literary Club of Salt Lake City, which
has now become widely known, there had
been no Society of this character in Utah
exclusively by ladies. The desire for im-
provement in this direction among the
residents of the Territory, however, had
not been dormant, and as early as the year
1854 an association composed of both ladies
and gentlemen and known as the Polysophic-
al Society was organized. Hon.
Lorenzo Snow was the leading spirit in
this movement, and at the first meeting,
which was held at his home, he was elected
 its President, with Samuel W. Richards
and Claudius V. Spencer as his assistants.
	The meetings of the Society took the
form of a series of evening entertainments,
and much taste and judgment were exer-
cised in the preparation of the programs.
Religious exercises with their pure and
elevating influence were mingled har-
moniously with the intellectual, care was
observed in all the arrangements to relieve
the grave with the  gay, the serious with
the humorous. Extemporaneous speeches
were also judiciously interspersed. The
meetings were largely attended and a lively
interest in the Society was maintained un-
til 1857, the time of the Echo Canyon War,
which event rendered it impracticable to
longer continue the pleasurable sessions.
	THE TWENTIETH WARD INSTITUTE.
	Fifteen years later Messrs John Nichol-
son and Septimus W. Sears, appreciating
the necessity of institutions for the in-
tellectual advancement of the young suc-
ceeded, by speaking in public upon the sub-
ject in awaking an interest therein. The
result was that on January 20th, 1873, the
Twentieth Ward Institute was organized 
with John Nicholson as President, S. W.
Sears first Vice President; John Sharp Jr.
Second Vice President; W. H. Tovey
Secretary; C. R. Savage, Treasurer and
Karl G. Maeser Librarian. A Board of
Directors consisting of eight members com-
pleted the organization. During the first
year the Institute was composed entirely of
gentlemen; but at the beginning of the
second year ladies were declared eligible
and many at once became active and
valuable members. That this association,
having as its object the intellectual, moral,
social and religious improvement of its
members, accomplished much good, it is
perhaps needless to say. It created a wide
interest which led to the formation of simi-
lar societies, and it was without doubt the
parent of the Mutual Improvement As-
sociations which exist throughout the Ter-
ritory today. At the organization of the
latter in the Twentieth Ward, the Institute,
after an animated and successful career of
over two years, fell into line, and is now
known as the  Twentieth Ward Mutual Im-
provement Association.
		THE WASATCH.
	This Society probably became the most
popular among the young people of any
which had existed up to the time of its or-
ganization. Upon the invitation of Messrs.
O. F. Whitney, R. S. Wells and J. X.
Ferguson a number of young ladies and
gentlemen met at the residence of Mrs. E.
B. Wells on the evening of January 29th,
1874, for the purpose of forming a reading
class. The officers were to consist of a


President, Secretary and an Executive
Committee, to be elected each month by
ballot. O. F. Whitney was chosen Presi-
dent and Emma Wells Secretary. Major
W. W. Woods was elected chairman of the
Executive Committee, but resigned in favor
of Miss Mamie Jones, who accepted the
position, Misses Belle Clayton and Cornelia
Horne were her assistants. A critic was
also appointed each evening and meetings
convened weekly. Almost immediately,
however, the reading class was transformed
into a literary, musical and dramatic Society.
The programs consisted of original essays,
declarations, select readings, music—vocal
and instrumental, and occassionally scenes
from Shakespeare and such plays as “The
Lady of Lyons, Marble Heart” etc. were
presented. One feature not to be over
looked was the “Budget Box,” introduced
by Major Woods, now a prominent lawyer
of Idaho. In this box were regularly
placed by anonymous contributors articles
of a humorous and satirical nature, which
were read each evening to the Society by
one of the members previously appointed
for that purpose. This part of the pro-
gram always caused much merriment,
though the personalities indulged in by
the authors of these articles often created
ill-feeling and were deprecated by the
majority of the members. 
	The Wasatch continued in a prosperous
condition, increasing in membership and
popularity for about three years, when
some of its members left the Territory and
others engaged in occupations which pre-
vented them any longer giving time to
such pursuits.
	A great amount of talent was developed
in this Society and tastes were formed
which decided more than one of the mem-
bers in the choice of his profession or vo-
cation. Several have since become
prominent as journalists, lawyers, actors,
musicians, poets and historians. On the
18th of June, 1890, a reunion was held at
the home of Mrs. F. G. Kimball nee Miss
Keetie Keywood. Every member was in-
vited and some of them traveled long dis-
tances to be present on the occasion, which
proved a very enjoyable one. “The
Wasatch days’’ will ever be remembered
with pleasure and pride by all who were
connected with the Society.


