A PICTORIAL CHART.

	Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck, of this city, has
designed and brought out a pictorial chart,
giving likenesses of the leading founders
of some of the most important missions in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. This chart has a Key published
in pamphlet form giving some facts in
this sister’s own experience and also of the
establishment of the Church, the testimony
of the three witnesses to the Book of Mor-
mon, and a very brief sketch of the men
who opened up the Gospel in the several
countries mentioned, America, Joseph Smith,
Canada, Sidney Rigdon, England, Heber
C. Kimball, Fox Islands, Wilford Wood,
ruff, Scotland, .Orson Pratt, Ireland, Theo-
dore Curtis, Isle of Man, John Taylor.
Wales, John Needham, Society Islands,
Addison Pratt, Utah, Brigham Young,
France, William Howell, Denmark, Eras-
tus Snow, Italy, Lorenzo Snow, Ireland-
Gudmund Gudmundson, Switzerland, T,
B. H. Stenhouse, Australia, Charles W.
Wendell, Sandwich Islands, George Q.
Cannon, India, William Willis, Norway,
Hans Peter Jensen, Germany, Daniel
Garn, Sweden, Andres W. Winberg, South
Africa, William H. Walker, Gibralter,
Edward Stevenson, Holland, Paul August
Schettler, Finland, Alof A. T. Forsall,
Mexico, Moses Thatcher, Turkey, Ferdi-
nand Fritz Hintze, Samoan Islands, Joseph
H. Dean, Belgium, Charles Schneitter,
Parley P. Prat. Rufus C. Allen, South
America, Hosea Stout and other Elders to
China in 1852, Orson Pratt and W. W.
Riter Austria. New Zealand, Wm. Cook,
Russia,Roumania,Bulgaria,Egypt and other
countries have also had the Gospel car-
ried to them by the Elders at different times.
	This chart is original in arrangement
and is in the form of a tree—of Sunflowers
the faces of the Elders in the centre; on
each side the tree is a scroll with the
names and relative countries inscribed, and
the truuk of the tree has Joseph and
Hyrum Smith and three witnesses like-
nesses in it.
	Altogether the chart itself is artistic,
though the photographs are not works of
art; with this exception it could be well
recommended, and the explanation given
by Mrs. Hasbrouck in the Introductory to
the Key is quite happily written and can-
not fail to impress those who read it, there
is such a spirit of sincerity in it; she cer-
tainly deserves great credit for the pains
she has taken to perpetuate remembrance
of those whose labors have been of such 
inestimable value in spreading the Gospel.


