PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT is the hazy ripe summertime. The
poets rhapsodize over the beautiful spring-
time and the months of violets, daisies and
roses, and people say let us prepare for the
dreadful summer by seeking the mountains,
or cooler climates,but can any one find fault
with this delightful ripe August.  The
morning and evening air is cool almost to
chilliness and the rich sunshine of the day
but ripens the fruits and the grains for our
gleaning.  A walk by the meadows, where
the air is fragrant with the new mown hay
where the silken tassels of the corn wave
in the summer breeze, and the harvester
reaps the golden grain where the music of
the birds, the brooks and the gentle winds
greets one on every side, the soul is filled
with sublimest thoughts and beautiful
nature draws one near to nature’s God.
One feels as full of thanks and praise to the
heavenly Father as the field is full of grain
and one wonders with such abundance on
every side how man can e’er complain.
[column 2]
	All things are fitted to their time and place
the sorrows of our life but make that life
the rich[-] even as the deep warm summer
enriches the earth.  How delightful it
sometimes is to throw aside the cares and
worries of the day and take a lonely ram-
ble.  I wonder not at the life of the natural-
ist, I only wonder that all mankind do not
take more to such a life.  It would make
us better I am sure for at every step so
much of wonder and of interest beset us.
The world is so busy or at least the people
of the world and they all are rustling and
jostling against each other in a mad rush
for what? wealth, money; and yet we slight
the very things in life we give our money
for.  It has been possible to live where
money was seldom or never seen and to live
comfortably and well.  God has provided
this beautiful earth with a rich abundance
of everything for our requirements, and
man’s thought and ingenuity have taught
us how to use them.  Are we grateful
enough for the many things we have.  If
so why are we always longing and seeking
for more.  I seldom or never sit at table
but before anything is partaken of grace is
pronounced on the food, and I wonder if
those who sit around the board ever think
during that grace of its sacredness. 
	We are so early taught about the thought
we must exercise when partaking of the
sacrament, and how much it means to us,
but are we so often, or so carefully taught
to seriously consider grace before eating.
I fear not and in many homes it is but a
form quickly and thoughtlessly gone
through with, that the eating may begin.
Still in that divinest of all prayers we are
taught to ask the Lord for our daily bread
and feeling through that, that he is the
Giver we ought never to partake of it with
out offering Him our thanks and praise,
not in a meaningless way but with our
whole hearts.
	An eastern paper devotes two whole
columns telling about giving away an old
baby carriage to a family because the little
girl had to lend it so much, I know a lady
who did the very same thing not long ago
and never thought any more about it either;
how easy it is to become a heroine now if
she had only worked that through a news-
paper, she might have had a column written
about her and perhaps one of those beauti-
ful cuts to accompany it, but true charity
does not seek public approbation, it comes
from the heart and is as spontaneous and
simple as a baby’s smile without a thought
of what may follow.  How many thousand
deeds of kindness and love could one per-
form.  Daily opportunities occur for us
all and it makes one better when the day is
spent to feel some one has been made the
happier by our kindness, be it in words or
deeds.  Could a record be kept of the lit-
tle kindnesses and courtesies most mothers
and house wives preform in a day I think 
these estimable persons would be quite as-
tonished, and perhaps it is better that they
do not know for a knowledge of one’s
charity is likely to curb it or at least to
cause the hitherto unselfish nature some
conceit.  How beautiful to live as Jesus
taught.  Let not the left hand know
what the right hand giveth.	CAMELIA.


MRS. WILLIAM CLAFLIN. of Boston,
whose guest the poet Whittier usually was
when he was in town, has prepared an at-
tractive volume of personal reminiscences
of him. Miss Edna D. Proctor, has con-
tributed a fine poem.


