		C. W. S. A. RECEPTION.

	ALTHOUGH I have been a resident of
this beautiful city for the past eleven
months, I am at present but slightly
acquainted, therefore feel somewhat em-
barrassed in attempting an address; yet, as
we are interested in the same cause; our
aims principles and sentiments similar and
as we believe our cause is just and right; I
 will give the ideas which have presented
themselves in as concise and brief form as
possible.
	Politics has been from girlhood an inter-
esting subject to me, perhaps from the fact
that I was an only sister in a family of seven
brothers. My mother being an invalid, I
was unavoidably brought up in the society
of men more or less. Utah’s Governors,
Judges and Attornies often visited Beaver
and my father’s home in early days was
their place of hospitable welcome. I often
heard discussions, social, civil and political,
for as you are aware the little settlement of
Beaver figured in many legal trials of
notoriety. We had District Court, mines,
a military reservation and other facilities
which aid in the civilization of a country.
History in connection with newspapers, I
became accustomed to read, desiring to gain
knowledge and information, learn what was
going on in the “Great Outside World,” I
heard a number of ladies lecture, took up
the study of Phrenology and "Science of
Health,” became imbued with the firm
belief that in all things men and women
should have an interest and understanding
together. I read Daniel Webster’s Speeches,
the “Union Text Book” of our American
Statesmen including the Constutition and
Declaration of Independence,” and many,
other works like John Stuart Mill on
“Liberty,” and the more I read, the more I
felt the positive necessity of woman being
not only a wife and mother in name, but in
very deed! Intellectually strong, brave,
wise, prudent efficient and capable.
	I am a sincere advocate of woman’s suf-
frage, (also, genuine womanliness.) So
far as the right of franchise goes, every
obligation of citizenship, she is as complete
to meet as man, yet, I do earnestly think
there should be established a qualification
for both men and women voters. God
has created them equal, what one is lack-
ing the other possesses, therefore, both
are requisite to form a perfect organization
in the home community and nation, neither
is complete without the other: their rights,
and relations are one and inseparable!
	Politics are the laws and regulations.
which control the acts and conduct of a
people. A mother should be acquainted
with these the same as a father, she should
understand lawful, citizen, family, property
and personal rights; for ’tis she who holds
the destiny, or rather the molding of the
character of her children in her own hands.
	Webster says: “we admire the artist who
presents the mimic man upon the canvas,
we honor and respect the sculptor who
carves out that same image in enduring
marble, but O, how insignificant these
achievements though the highest and fairest
in all the departments of art, in comparison


with the vocation of human mothers!
They work not upon canvas, that will fade,
or marble, that will crumble into dust, but,
upon mind and spirit that will live forever
and bear for good or evil (throughout
duration the impress of a mother’s plastic
hand.”)
	’Tis near a century since woman’s suf-
frage was first introduced and discussed in 
America by Mrs. Francis Wright of
England, and Ernestine L. Rose of Poland.
Its progress has been slow, its opponents
many, criticism and derision has marked its
every advance, yet, it is gaining more
strength and influence every year, that pow-
erful emissary conservatism, is gradually
losing his hold in the minds of intelligent
people; and to-day our strongest supporters
are many of them great, good, influential
men. We feel safe in saying, that just as
soon as we are fully prepared and
credentialed in an intellectual proficiency
we can and will again enjoy unlimited fran-
chise. Our Heavenly Father does every-
thing in a right and systematic order.
He wishes his daughters as well as sons
qualified to fill positions before we receive
them; he desires us to become competent, able
women not only good but truly intelligent.
	“Well” says one “how can mothers with
families of children study Politics?” ’Tis
an old and often repeated saying, “neces-
sity is the mother of invention," here we
have it personified. Mothers are the
natural instructors of the human race; yet
we cannot teach what we ourselves do not
know, here comes necessity. We have sons
and daughters, they are our jewels, our
hope our inspiration; for them we wish to
live, to learn to be informed, to prove
worthy of the great trust reposed in us,
they are our treasures from God. Intel-
ligence is power in our grasp, unlimited!
	Still we must be patient, act wise, mean-
time gaining safe ground on which to erect
a structure. Train our sons and daughters
in the duties of the ballot, in the responsi-
bility of men and measures placed in public
office, in the magnitude and importance of
civil law, yet, radicalism will never ac-
complish this no never.
	Being a Utah woman by birth and resi-
dence, I find many things for thought and
investigation at the present time, and not
alone does woman’s suffrage form a part.
	I am a mining man's wife, (and have
warm feelings, strong sympathy with the
miners of this region and their families,)
and had for the past four years prior to
moving to Salt Lake City lived in a min-
ing camp, consequently, just now I feel
deeply interested in the Silver-problem, its
proper adjustment and ultimate success. I
am not a society woman know few of the
rules that regulate its circle, therefore beg
pardon if I break any.
	We believe there are many ways woman
can aid humanity in the present crisis, the
fall of silver, which involves, hamlet, vil-
lage, town, city, state and nation, or at
least the south and west of our Great Re-
public. Our fathers, husbands and sons
build or have erected homes, it is they who
provide or should procure the wherewith to
furnish them: mothers, wives, and daugh-
ters make the interior of those homes what
we find them: ’tis they who give credit and
order to every department, beauty, comfort
and happiness of surroundings, their taste
and artistic eye can be traced everywhere,
or vice versa, the lack of these acquirements,
noticable.
	There are various features coming up

[column 2]
nowadays in society, that cause sensible
men and women to seriously reflect. There
are numbers of young men who ought to
be good, reliable, respected citizens who are
not, they prefering to follow sporting,
gaming in all its dangerous, wicked folly,
rather than marry; is the fault all with
men? We do not believe it is, yet, we al-
low that woman is the mentor of superior
civilization the world over, still many of 
them are selfish, frivolous, extravagant and
fickle, they regard themselves as frail, fit
only to be  petted, dressed and made much
of; they crave notoriety and flattery,
jewelry, and expensive display. They dis-
regard the holiness the sacredness of mar-
riage the duties of home life, the obliga-
tions of wife and mother, the care of hus-
band and children becomes irksome
monotomous they trust everything to hired
house keepers and nurses. Is it any won-
der woes and darkness surround some
fire sides; that separation is the ultimate
end, is it any wonder some young men
nowadays dread to risk matrimony? We
read of bankrupts and failures, forgeries
and suicides, there is a cause for this, it is
not all woman’s fault, but from personal
observation and circumstantial evidence in
numbers of instances she has been more or
less associated with it.
	Wives, mothers, sisters let us study
domestic economy, let us train our daugh-
ters in the need, duty, independence and
utility of home culture, we ourselves per-
sonally superintend the management of
every department, the lines on husbands
and father’s faces will gradually disappear, a
stronger feeling of security of confidence in-
crease. Self-reliance is one of the best ele-
ments in a true woman’s character. We
should always understand the limit of
husband’s income also, his liabilities every
week and month, and carefully guard and
spend our own pin-money, then if we do
not have the free coinage of silver the com-
ing year, we will at least have the
consciousness of not having foolishly used
our means when others suffered, perhaps
have a reserve fund to assist those less
fortunate than ourselves, for there is now
and will surely be, a time of hardships this
coming winter; and whether we realize it or
not there is a strong faction in every home,
which greatly assists in lightening and bet-
tering, even from a business stand-point a
man’s credit. Then let us never forget to
sustain a true womanly bearing through
every emergency. God in giving us our
position placed us neither at the head or
foot of man, but by his side as companion
and wife, as a capable responsible helpmate.
Although our spheres in life are different,
they are none the less important. To be
the respected wife of a good, honorable
man, the mother of pure, intelligent child-
ren, we regard as the grandest possession
on earth!
			J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 14th, 1893.


