A PRAYER.

	[Com[-]osed and read at the fnneral services of
Sister Louisa Taylor, Goshen March 17th, 1893 by
Christina Higginson.]

God of mercy direct me this wearisome day,
A kind word of comfort to loved ones to say.
To cheer up the hearts of the tried and the true
For all their dependence is centered in you.

Be near with Thy comforting influence sweet,
For the hearts of our loved ones in agony beat,
This day finds their senses all numb with despair;
Bless them and comfort them now is my prayer.
Their hearts are bereaved for the loved one that’s
	gone,
They mourn her and miss her so much from
	their home,
But her mission is over, her body’s at rest;
She mingles with friends in the land of the
	blest.
Her life speaks a volume of kind words and
	deeds,
She has spent a long life in supplying the needs,
Of the poor and the lowly, the tried and the true;
There was nothing too much for her kind heart to
	do.

Her children will miss her kind influence sweet
Their circle at home will be never complete,
Without their loved mother, for mother love
	heals
All the aches and the pains that humanity feels

But ah me! What comfort—what heavenly fire—
The hearts of her loved ones will ever inspire.
To know that they acted with kindness and love
To their mother who’s gone to the mansions
	above.

Well worthy is she to receive the reward—
“Well done! enter into the joys of the Lord.”
She goes to her rest with a record as pure
As the snow on the mountains, and will ever en-
	dure.

And when the last trump of the Lord sounds
	abroad,
“Come, arise with the just; come and dwell with
	thy Lord.”
Her frame now so worn will rise in its might,
And forever will dwell in the mansions of light.

O, Father be kind to the loved ones below,
’Til thy Fatherly summons may bid them to go, 
To join their loved parent in mansions above,
I pray for all this with a spirit of love.


[Column1]
WOMEN AS TYPESETTFRS.
	GREASED lightning don’t seem to be in
it, so to speak, as a comparison to the way
the printer woman’s fingers traveled over
the big rack full of little boxes, which she
called a case, and dropped little chunks of
lead into the piece of metal she held in her
hand, and which is known to the initiated
as a “stick.”
	“Would you give some points concerning
printing as a trade for women?”
	Most certainly she would, and she knew
whereof she talked, for it is twenty-five
years since her mother obtained admission
for her as a very great favor into a little
country newspaper office, where she was to
learn the trade as a boy learns it. She be-
gan as the printer’s devil, and did all sorts
of work afterward, from running errands
to making up the forms.
	“That’s the trouble,” she says, with
girls who learn the trade nowadays. They
are not thorough. Not one in twenty-five
of them who say they are experts know
anything about any other part of the trade
than typesetting. Many of them don’t

[Column 2]
seem to want to learn any more of it.
They manage to get into some office to 
learn the trade, and are given a case and
taught the letters. You know this doesn’t
happen to a boy apprentice for a long time,
and getting cases is regarded as quite an
event. They are paid about twenty cents
a thousand ems for all the matter they set
up, and when they’ve been working about
three months they consider themselves ex-
perts and go and hunt up a new job where
if their employer doesn’t know how long
they’ve been working at the trade, he is
apt to give them thirty or thirty-five cents.
The regular scale which men receive is
 from forty to fifty cents a thousand. But,
really I’m sorry to say that their cheapness
is about the only thing that recommends
women printers. That is, I mean, the
average young girl printer. They won’t
do things that men will. They want too
much waiting on. Some of them think its
quite the proper thing to be real delicate
and weak. They can’t possibly lift cases.
If they work in the office with men they
waste a great deal of the men’s time by
asking for assistance. If the men object,
and perhaps refuse to work in the office
with them, their employer gets a boy to
wait on them.
	“Certainly, it’s a good trade for women
if they treat it properly. Girls who work
in union offices—there are a few who do,
although the total number of women who
belong to the union is hardly a hundred—
make from $16 to $18. I know of at least
three women who have charge of depart-
ments in large printing houses, who began
as typesetters, and who receive from $18 to
$25 a week. There are about 6,000 printers
in New York, and less than 500 of that
number are women. It’s a bit odd, too,
that so few should be in the field, where
the pay is apparently good. I say apparent-
ly, for the simple reason that although the
pay is comparatively good, much better, in-
deed, than that received by the average
saleswoman, bookkeeper, stenographer, or
other woman worker, it is not so good as it
should be—that is men, for the same work,
frequently receive twice as much pay.
Within the past five or six years a great
many girls have learned typesetting, and
the trade already begins to suffer from the
girl who lives at home and isn’t particular
about getting the market value for her
work.
	“Just now I have a good job; I’m get-
ting $18 a week, but I’m general factotum.
I set type, read proof, and keep an eye on
the other girls in the room. A short time
ago I happened to be out of work and I 
learned more about the prices that women
work for, than I ever dreamed of before.
I walked, rode and got about in various 
ways to half the shops between here and
Harlem, looking for a job. I could have 
got in half a dozen places. In one I was
offered twenty-five cents a thousand ems.
In another I was offered $8 a week. The
highest sum was $12. The lowest I had
ever worked for since the first four years,
when I served my apprenticeship, was $15,
and I had been getting $20 just before the
firm for which I worked went out of busi-
ness. I was also offered an opportunity of
learning how to run a machine, which, I
was informed, would in time supplant all
flesh-and-blood workmen. I was offered
$4.50 to commence. By dint of inquiry, I
learned that the highest sum paid was $12
a week for ten hours’ work daily. I didn’t

[Column 3]
accept. I asked if women were preferred
for any other reason than their cheapness,
and was informed that they were steadier
more reliable, neater and more conscien-
tious. This being the case, it seemed to
be even more unjust that they should re-
ceive so much smaller pay. The employer, 
however, didn’t help me out any in this
particular. He simply gave me that 
ancient story about a man having a family
to support and a woman’s being able to 
live cheaper.
	“In union offices, of course, the rates
are equal, but as a rule you don’t find many
women employed in those places.
	“In the big newspaper offices you will
find a few women employed as distributors.
These are among the few really fat jobs
that fall almost exclusively into the hands
of women. There are probably about
twenty-five of them in New York. Their
wages, of course, depend on the work they
get to do. The compositors usually pay
them for ‘throwing in’ the type about a
third of what they get for 'setting it up,'
or fifteen cents a thousand ems. Some of
the men do this for themselves, but most of
them write on a little slip of paper the
number of thousands they want thrown in
and the distributor they wish to do it, and
put the slip on a hook reserved for the pur-
pose. When the distributor comes to the
office, she looks over the hook, takes those
which have her name on them and proceeds
to work. Some of them, it is said, make
as high as $20 a week, working from ten in
the morning until five in the afternoon.
	“Altogether I think it’s an excellent trade
for a girl. She can always get work. It is
not so hard as a great many things. It re-
quires intelligence,application and patience.
If she evinces a desire to learn all there is
to be learned and is proud of setting a neat,
clean proof and of keeping her cases in a 
neat, workmanlike condition; if she makes
up her mind that business is business and
that if her work is badly done her employer
is perfectly justified in giving her a piece of
his mind (and she ought to be ashamed to 
take refuge behind her sex and cry about
it), she’ll get on very well in the printing
bnsiness. On the other hand, if she makes
up her mind that its only a makeshift any-
how, she’s only going to stay at it a little
while until the desirable young man comes
along and her advent into matrimony re-
lieves her of the necessity of working for a
living, she won’t be a success at printing or
anything else. As a rule when a girl goes
into a printing office to learn, she is first set
to holding copy for a while, to familiarize 
her with manuscript. Next she is taught
the letters of the case and then at once 
she is a full-fledged compositor, and after
four or five years work she knows precious
little more about the trade.
	“There are a few women proof readers in
New York. This requires perhaps, an
even greater amount of knowledge, for
while the printer is justified in blindly fol-
lowing copy and misspelling or mispunctu-
ating simply because its done that way in
the copy, the proofreader is liable to have
the house about her ears if she is not able
to make plain English out of the most
illegible writing; and to remember all the
idiosyncrasies of style of half a dozen
publishing houses or editors. Spelling
must be among her infallible qualifications.
For this she gets anywhere from $12 to $21
a week, according to her skill, the sort of
work she’s employed on and the house she
 works for.”—The Journalist.


