THE PRESENT CONDITION. 
     WE were greatly in hopes that we might
have known before we went to press some-
thing concerning the Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Chicago during the past
week, but so far nothing definite has been
obtained.
     We were of the opinion that those able
women would pass resolutions in regard to
the financial condition of the country, that
might have some weight with Congress,
now that there is a special committee on
Suffrage and the opinions of men and wo-
men on this subject and matters pertaining
thereto are considered of some importance.
     In the present state of affairs in this
country, women are and very naturally
must be as deeply interested as men if not
even more. Women will likely be the
greatest real sufferers for more men run
away from trouble than women, and we are
happy to say that there are only a few if
any women-tramps throughout the country;
suicides are not as common among women
as men in our opinion.
     Consequently women should take an
active part in ameliorating the condition if
anything can be done, and at any rate to
try and become acquainted with the situa-
tion, and see wherein their efforts may be
available.
     If economy in the home is needful most 
women are ready at any time to make any
changes possible and reduce expenses, and
under all great trials women are morally as
brave and self-denying as men are. In the
present state of affairs there is no doubt that
women would be as patriotic and self-
sacrificing as their foremothers of the revo-
lutionary times. In fact modern women
are strong-minded and face all sorts of
difficulties and dangers, such as now beset
the country heroically. There is a great
deal too, in being cheerful and hopeful and
always speaking encouragingly in the
hours of trial financial or of any kind.
Smiles are more efficacious than tears and
vastly more becoming.
     Whatever fate awaits the people of this
favored land of America, be sure it will
all be over-ruled for good for its destiny is
upward and onward though obstacles may
have to be overcome, and dark clouds threat-
en, there will always be a silver lining
somewhere,and if one has a light heart and
clear conscience he can stand firm and stead-
fast abiding the result, which is after all in
the hands of Him who holds the nations in
the hollow of His hand.
     Above all the Latter-day Saints should


not lose faith in each other, nor the
promises of the Almighty to his people,
and should always prophecy good for Zion,
and be able to lend a helping hand to those
who have not the same abiding, living
faith to sustain them. A famine for money,
does not compare with a famine for bread
which some of the Latterday Saints have
experienced and while there is bread in the
land for the hungry there is more cause for
rejoicing than sorrow. We who were here
in an early day know that bread could not
be bought for gold, the battalion boys who
are still living can testify to that fact, and
there are many interesting, historical inci-
dents and experiences of those early days
that will bear repeating to this generation,
and would be specially applicable just now.


