				XXXIII.

	LADY ANNA never quite recovered from
the shock of Aunt Walton’s insinuations
about ghosts and legends, and Maitland
who was perfectly innocent on the subject
could not satisfy her, not knowing any-
thing himself; but poor Anna was now
more determined than ever to leave Walton
Hall, where she had never felt very happy,
and as Maitland (now really Lord Walton
having rightfully inherited the title) paid
no regard to her wishes, but absented him-
self more and more from his home, she be-
came so obstinate as to declare, that unless
he would go abroad with her, she would
write to Uncle Rob to make arrangements
for her to sail for America.
	Lord Walton in settling up matters after
his mother’s marriage found himself
burdened with a large landed estate, and
very small revenue to maintain it, and
therefore saw something must be done to
save Walton Hall from irretrievable ruin;
and was more willing to listen to Anna’s
proposals to leave England. To him the
whole world was hanging as it were by a
single thread, he had gone through all his
ready money, his lawyers would not allow
him to overdraw a farthing; he had no
resources to fall back upon, his mother had
united her fortunes with another race, and
he could thenceforth have no claim upon
her; he had played a desperate game, and
lost; and though his wife knew nothing of
all this, he was self-condemned. Maitland
Walton was not wholly bad, and he might
have retrieved his fallen fortunes even then,
but his wife was of that weak and plastic
mold that society favors and countenances,
and he had no one to look to. Had Anna
been made of the same strong material as
her cousin Jane, and bravely looked into
the difficulty, for her intuition told her
something was amiss, Maitland might have
lifted his head above water once more; but
his good fortune had seemingly forsaken
him, and Anna begged him to leave Eng-
land forever. She only thought of peace
and rest, and the enjoyment of home ties
with husband and child, she could not
grasp all the advantages that might accrue
from estate, and titles, and rank. Lord
Walton was involved, his creditors were on
his track, his mother’s marriage had been
published and his claims upon the estate
were not what had been expected, and Sir
Clair Hilliard was the heir of Sir Edward
instead of Lady Anna, and gossip was
ready with busy tongue to enlarge upon
the situation and pour out vials of bitter-

[column 2]
ness upon the troubled waters, that
seethed and boiled ominously. Maitland
kept all that was disagreeable from his wife,
but Dr. Bland became aware from other
sources of the very unpleasant circum-
stancs that environed those in whom he
had interested himself, and resolved, to go
where disgrace could not overtake Anna,
whose delicacy could not stand calumny
and reproach, who was not only very dear
to him, because of her innocence and purity,
and his intimate association with the
family, but he knew that to Jane (his
darling wife) she was as “the apple of her
eye.” Jane Conway had set her affections
upon her cousin Anna, when she first
came to the old castle, because of her
instinctive love of beauty and purity that
were so apparent, and when she saw how
innocent and inexperienced she was, how
neglected, and how insolated, her girlhood
had been, she felt all the motherly nature
inherent in her soul, rise up in her defense
and to protect her. Since her marriage
she noted how neglectful Maitland had
been, while Dr. Bland had shown her
every attention a wife could wish for, and
knowing all this, Dr. Bland decided to go
away, and take his wife and her cousin
where life might be begun anew, and all
the old hideous past be buried, or hidden
away or blotted out, and the future be
bright with promise and hopeful anticipa-
tion. In fact the Doctor believed in Mait-
land’s strength to rise superior to his
surroundings, and make a name and for-
tune, without heredity, as he had done,
through his own superior powers and
ability.
	Once the Doctor’s plans were matured in
his own mind, he opened the subject to his
wife; and she coincided immediately, and
made her calculations to lose no time, but
apprise Anna right away and prepare to set
sail before the Autumnal storms.
	We who live in this prophetic age, look
back and wonder why they who were thus
wrought upon to open up the new world,
could not comprehend the purposes of the
Lord in establishing another form of
government upon this continent, but we
to day are just as ignorant of what is yet
to transpire, as were our ancestors who
came to America in those early times.
	The mysterious plans and movements of
the ages as they come and go, are not given
us to know, but are in the hands of one
who is all powerful, and all-seeing, and we
only bide the issues of the hour that to us
are marvelous and beyond finite comprehen-
sion. Yet we know that the best blood of
the old world, the descendants of the most
noble men and womeu, born with the in-
herited freedom of privileges that descends
through generations from father to son, and
mother to daughter, culminated in the race
that gave to Amerlca its freedom and liberty
of thought and of conscience. It could
not have been otherwise. No servile race
could have broken the tyrant’s chain only
free-born men and women, who knew their
own power and superiority and their equal-
ity with the best people of the mother


[Column 1]
country, of which they were a dominant
part.
	Lady Anna was delighted when her
cousin gave her the first intimation of going
to an unknown country, and exclaimed
“O, Cousin Jane, let me go away from
this dreadful place where I have known
only misery and discontent, I fancied love
such as I hoped to obtain in marriage, 
would crown my life with supreme happi-
ness but how vain were all my foolish
dreams; how selfish I was; I could have
done so much to make Hilliard castle a
happy home for my father in his declining
years, and made up to him his great loss
and bereavement, for my mother’s death;
and my brother Clair had we known in my
father’s life-time of his existence could have
relieved him of the burdens of the estate;
—O, why can’t we know these things in
time and save ourselves and others so much
unhappiness.’’
	“The good Father has not so ordered it,
my dear cousin and we must submit to h1s
interposition and acknowledge his Hand
in all that comes to us here, whether it is
as we would wish it, or otherwise. We
are not the arbiters of our own destiny, and
if we were, I question whether we should
plan as well as our Heavenly Father does
for us in all matters.”
	“Dear cousin Jane, how good you are,
and how wise; I am not fit to battle with
life, I need the faith and trust in a higher
power that you possess, and I know not
how to gain it, what shall I do to reach
that confidence in a divine power that you
have attained? teach me how to rise out of
this doubt and gloom that gathers round
me like a cloud, and obscures all that is
beautiful, shutting out the light of heaven,
and leaving me enveloped in the darkness
of despair.”
	“You must not give way to such fancies
Anna, you are not to blame, rest assured
we will see happier days, meantime busy
yourself with needful preparations, and
leave Maitland to the Doctor’s persuasive
arguments.”
	And for the time Lady Anna was pacified
and let things take their course. Aunt
Walton becoming convinced that Anna
would not go to the seashore, left the Hall
to seek new fields, and Maitland was more
mindful of home and set about winding
up his affairs, taking advice from
Doctor Bland who had approached him in a
way that secured his confidence at once.
	Such were some of the peculiar con-
ditions that brought to America in early
times, people of education and delicacy of
feeling and sentiment. That there was a
design and purpose in all these things we
who live in this dispensation firmly believe.
When Doctor Bland and young Lord Wal-
ton talked the matter over together of going
into a new country, and took counsel how
best to proceed, half the difficulties and
embarrassment that had seemed positive
obstacles were removed and the way seemed
to open up before them readily. In those
days there were many inconveniences to
encounter that those who travel now know
nothing of, and to these ladies they were
hardships; yet Lady Anna had often
thought if she were on a desert island with
Maitland by her side and baby in her arms
to do as she pleased with, she could be
happy. She little knew what it really
meant, (child of fortune as she was) to be
deprived of any luxury, worse still to
“rough it” in a land of red men and un-
trodden forests.

[Column 2]
	It is well for us all that in the economy
of heaven we are kept in ignorance of the
future, or it would often be impossible for
us to walk fearlessly into the fiery furnace
of trial as we do, we would need greater
faith and superior knowledge to enable us to
live out the allotted time here upon earth
were we thus forewarned.
	Mrs. Bland and her cousin made the tour
of the dear old castle and grounds more
than once taking note of everything of
special interest not only for memory’s sake,
but that they might tell it all in detail to
their children in years to come. As for
Walton Hall the only feeling Lady Anna
had was to forget she had ever lived in it;
she could not take into consideration the
fact that it was the inheritance of her son,
that he would succeed to the title in time—
her ideas and sentiments all centered now in
Hilliard castle and that would belong to
Clair. There was no one who interested
her in the matter and she was left to her
own surmisings; she had never alluded
to her cousin Jane to the insinuations of
Maitland’s aunt, but it worried her, and
when one morning her maid informed her
that some of the servants had seen a strange
woman about the galleries; she shivered
with nervous dread, and could scarcely
keep from betraying her fears. She con-
soled herself with the thought that she
would soon be far away. and then second-
arily remembering her cousin’s prophetic
nature ordered the carriage to drive over
and see her and impart the secret that
weighed upon her mind,and ask her advice.
	Arriving early in the day Mrs. Bland
suspected something wrong, and besides
Lady Anna was pale with excitement.
“What is the matter with you cousin, is
baby Edward ill?” after the first greetings
were exchanged ,was her cousin’s first
thought. “O, no but Aunt Walton once
hinted to me that there were strange stories
about Walton Hall, and that ghosts had
been seen there, but I tried not to believe
it, because she was always trying to induce
me to go here and there making all kinds
of pretexts."
	“Depend upon it cousin Anna this is
servant’s gossip, there’s not an old castle or
hall in all England that has not at some-
time or other had a rumor like this circula-
ted by superstitious servants.” And by
such good reasoning Lady Anna’s fears
were allayed for the time being, and she
returned home in better spirits, the fresh
air and invigorating helpfulness of cousin
Jane lifting her from the temporary des-
pondency. In her childhood her maid and
even her French governess had allowed
her to read queer stories, and she recollected
that these apparitions were said to make
their appearance when some great event
was to transpire in the family, and she had
immediately construed this to mean disaster
of some serious nature; but her cousin’s
confidence had given her courage, and she
reflected that were it really an omen it
might only be the important fact of Mait-
land and herself leaving Walton Hall for-
ever. It was comparatively easy for Doc-
tor Bland to dispose of his property and
wind up his affairs, though it necessitated a
journey into the North of England to bid
his relatives farewell. With young Lord
Walton things were more complicated, his
mother did not oppose him, he was glad of
that, and he felt Dr. Bland would be a wise
counselor and true friend, but there were
many matters to be adjusted and he might

[Column 3]
be absent for years, and indeed never re-
turn again, and the great responsibility and
the giving up of position in the country of
his ancestry made an impression that
brought him to his sober senses, and he
looked upon the past few years of his life
as an almost unpardonable mistake, and
folly in the extreme.


