THE AZALEA.
	On October 25, 1875, another Society
was formed bearing the above title. The
name was chosen because of the beauty
and rarity of the Azalea flower. The
young people who composed this association
were actuated by a desire to belong to a
literary organization and being ineligible,
on account of their youth, as members of
the Wasatch—they conceived the idea of
converting a card club, previously organized
into such a society. Accordingly, on the
date given at the home of Mr. John D.
Spencer the reorganization took place, the
following officers being elected. President
George F. Felt; Vice President, John D.
Spencer; Secretary Charles B. Felt and
Treasurer, James Miller. This Society
was a particularly happy one, the members
all being congenial and their aim, which
was to combine intellectual improvement
with innocent pleasures, was certainly
praise worthy. The agreement made by
each male member prior to his initiation
was that he would obstain from all intoxi-
cants, tobacco in every form, profane
language and conduct unbecoming a gentle-


man. The Azalea proved to be the longest
lived of all the early associations, the final
meeting occuring on September 25, 1884,
just nine years after its inception. Among
the members of this Society are now to be
found poets, actors, play writers, lawyers
and ministers.
		THE SHAKESPEARE SOCIETY
	The Shakespeare Society was organized
by a number of students of literature at
the University of Deseret. Their plan was
to continue the study of Shakespere follow-
ing the course given at the University
which comprised a thorough study of the
great author’s plays.
	One of the most prominent members and
perhaps the originator of the Society was
Miss Alice Merrill, now Mrs. Horne, at
whose home the first meeting was held in
1885. Sessions thereafter convened weekly
at the homes of the lady members. In the
course followed by this Society, a critical
examination of the play under consideration
was required. The poetry, construction,
diction and etymology were examined and
discussed; the history of the play studied,
essays and criticisms written on all the im-
portant characters, and selections memorized
by each student. While it was studied as
a classic, thorough enjoyment of the plot
and a comprehension of its meaning were
obtained. Occassionally, to vary the tenor
of the meetings, members would commit to
memory some of the scenes and produce
them ;these occasions are memorable for the
recreation and pleasure that they afforded.
Some of the plays studied by the Society
were Hamlet, Macbeth, Julius Ceasar,
King Lear, Merchant of Venice and
Othello. Earnest and progressive work
was done for a period of over four years,
when the Society though it did not disband
ceased to study Shakspeare. This was ow-
ing to absence from the Territory of many
of its members; since then it has held no
meetings other than those of a purely social
character. Seven of the members have
graduated from college and received de-
grees, while nearly all of them are gradu-
ates of the University of Deseret.


