THE WAR OF 1812.

	Wars mark epochs in the history of
nations. The war of 1812 was the strug-
gle of youth against the usurpations of a
one time parent; and as thrice armed is he
who has his quarrel just; the youth passed
victoriously in this the struggle as gold
through the refiner’s fire.
	Since England through her despotic
policy had forfeited the choicest of her
dependencies she lost no opportunity in
harrassing her commercial, as well as
political relations with the United States.
	The causes which led to this second strug-
gle with England, date back almost from
the Revolutionary War.
	As mountain streams converge in the
valley into the one river whose rising flood
rolls on majestically to the sea, so did the
many difficulties which the United States
Government, had to contend with, have
the result which forms the subject of this
paper.
	The somewhat desultory warfare on the
Mediterranean, the strained relations with
France, a war with that nation being
averted by the pacific rulings of Thomas
Jefferson; an almost fruitless endeavor to
procure an amicable understanding with
Spain and finally the insolence of the
English Government, led to the formal
declaration of war in 1812.
	Napoleon’s war with the British power
gave a great impetus to the commerce of
our nation. Owing to the neutral policy
affected by the United States her source of
revenue was greatly enlarged. Acting un-
der the principle that no country had any
right whatever to carry on commercial re-
lations with a nation with whom she was 
at war, England in 1805 seized upon no
less than twenty merchantmen.
	Referring to this, one historian: says
“Mr. Monroe had scarcely reached London
(from Spain) before the vessels had been
brought into the British channel and that
by condemnation of more than one of them
the Admiralty Count had settled the
principle.”
	Not only was the commerce attacked but
as John Quincy Adams termed it: “The
right of man-stealing from United States
Vessels.”
	British officers boarded American Mer-
chantmen and pressed into the English
service, any sailors, down to the beardless
middy, that they chose to make British
subjects.
	When Congress convened in the year
1806 the President’s message truly said,
“The aspect of our foreign relations is
much changed. ”
	Jefferson recommended such measures as
would strengthen the neutral policy, al-
ready adopted by the American Govern-
ment and also recommended his pet scheme
of defences by gunboat; “to have a compe-
tent number of gunboats,” and competent
meant considerable.
	Commercial intercourse with England
was forbidden.  That session of Congres-
appropriated $250,000 for building gun
boats and $150,000 for fortifying the ports
and harbors. Just as soon as the United
States would finish a gunboat, or repair a
port, England would checkmate her by
having a corresponding number of vessels
sailing in American Waters.
	Thus we see the two nations steadily
moving along the lines, to the point where
a rupture must come and the probable des-
truction of one of the powers.


[Column 1]
	On the 22nd, of October 1807, Mr. Mon-
roe as minister stopped further attempts at
settling difficulties, for as he stated pro-
ceeding to negotiate anew upon the basis of
a treaty already concluded and signed is
wholly inadmissible.  Monroe left England 
shortly after, leaving Mr. Pincking in
charge.
	Partaking of that insolent spirit the
British Naval officers lost no opportunities
in insulting the American flag.  The gross
insult to the stars and stripes on the
Chesapeake forcibly illustrates this.  On
the 23rd of June, 1807, the Chesapeake
about to proceed to the Mediterranean was
assaulted by the British cruiser Leopard,
carrying 50 guns, when about six or eight
miles from land off the Capes of Virginia
wholly unprepared for such unwarranted
attack and with the firing of a single gun
surrendered, the British Captain mustering
the Chesapeake's crew.
	The President issued a proclamation on
the 2nd of July, forbidding all British ves-
sels to enter American waters.
	Excitement was intense, the country's
flag insulted and as Mr. Jefferson observed:
"Never since the battle of Lexington was 
the country in such a state."
	In consequence of the critical condition
of foreign affairs, Congress was called on
October 25th.
	The existing conditions caused the is-
suance of a confidential message to Con-
gress showing the great and increasing
dangers to the Commercial Interests of the
United States.
	In accordance with the President's wishes,
within four days the famous "Embargo
Act" was passed.  This brought a torrent
of abuse upon the administration by the
opposition and the fealty of its friends.
The right and justice of such an act is not
for present discussion although some of the
warmest debates ever had in Congress were
had in 1808 when attempts were made to
have the bill repealed, which were finally
successful.
	At this time, Spencer in his history says:
"The country was kept in a constant fer-
ment by the preparations for the change in
the person of the Presidency and by the
measures which were as surely the forerun-
ners of war as negotiations, amicable inter-
vention, and arbitrations, are presages of
the conclusion of hostilities."
	In the fall of 1808 James Madison was
elected to the Presidency and George Clin-
ton to the Vice Presidency, John Q. Adams
tersely said in review of the troubles exist-
ting between the United States and Great
Britain, they were frantic; in fits of mutual
invasion and conquest.  Thus we enter
the administration of James Madison.
	The somewhat strained relations were
for a time eased,  in negotiation with Mr.
Erskin, minister of England.  It resulted
in the withdrawal by both nations of those
annoying and obnoxious features. Accord-
ingly a proclamation to that effect was is-
sued by the President.  It is needless to
say the proclamation was hailed with joy.
But the cloud was gathering and its
shadows were growing deeper, though a
ray of sunshine would now and then ap-
pear, only to be followed by a darkness
more dense.
	It was the lull before the storm.  It is
needless to describe the growth of revulsion
of feeling to the British Government.  We
need only say that when early in May,
1811, word was brought that an American
had again been impressed into the British 

[Column 2]
service by a British man of war, when still 
recalling the insult to the Chesapeake, the
fires of patriotism seemed touched by mem-
ory’s hand and kindled to that consuming
blaze which naught could quench but
blood, and that emitted through the jaws
of cruel war.
	Commodore Rogers was in command of
the President, 44 guns, and on May 16, 1811
made sail for the scene of the recent insult.
Seeing a man of war it was hailed and in
return fired upon the President.  The result
was the stranger,  His Brittanic Majesty’s
ship, "Little Bert," was severely crippled
losing 31 killed and wounded.
	This encounter caused the wildest excite-
ment since 1803.
	Up to this date it was estimated that
England had captured nine hundred
American Vessels; and had impressed in-
to the British Service 6000 mariners who
claimed to be citizens of the United States
and amidst all these proofs of ambition and
avarice she demanded, that the victims of
her usurpations and her violence should
receive her as the sole defender of the
rights and liberties of mankind.
	About this time, 1811, Indian outrages
on the frontier culminated in the famous
battle of Tippecanoe.   The troops and
General Harrison   successfully    subduing
the redskins.
	Matters were fast reaching a climax.  In
1812 the President laid before Congress
certain papers purporting to be from one
Henry, implicating the English Govern-
ment in an unsuccessful attempt to cause
the opponents of the administration to take 
up arms.
	The British denied having any knowl-
edge of the affair. It, however, caused a 
greater hatred than ever of the British.
England now announced through her
minister, Mr. Foster that she would not 
recede from the ground she had assumed.
An embargo was laid of United States Ves-
sels from ninety days.
	Then President Madison of whom it is
said, "could not be kicked into a fight,"
sent his war message to Congress, which
was referred in the house to the committee
on foreign affairs, Mr. Calhoun chairman.
They reported favorably and a bill declar-
ing war was passed 74 to 49.  The ques-
tion hung fire nearly two weeks and finally
passed (19 to 13) Vermont being the only 
New England State in favor of the war.
Accordingly on June 19th, 1812, the Presi-
dent issued the formal Proclamation of war.
The entire Federal Party opposed war
measures and the minority in Congress pre-
pared an address to that effect for their con-
stitution.
	John Quincy Adams on the day of
adjournment of Congress, writing to a
friend said: "It is with surprise that I hear
it pronounced, not only by the newspapers,
but by persons in authority, ecclesiastical
and civil, and political and military, that it
is an unjust and unnecessary war, that the
declaration of it was altogether unexpected,
etc.  How it is possible that a rational or
social or a moral creature can say the war
is unjust is to me utterly incomprehensible.
How it can be said it is unnecessary is
very mysterious.  I have thought it both
just and necessary for five or six years.
How it can be said to be unexpected is
another wonder.  I have expected it for
more than five and twenty years, and have
had reason to be thankful it has been post-
poned so long."

[Column 3]
	As a fitting termination to its labors
Congress by resolution requested the Presi-
dent to recommend to the people a day of
fasting and prayer in view of the condition
of affairs.
	Accordingly on July 9th, the President
issued his proclamation recommending the
third Thursday in August to be set apart 
as "a day of public humiliation and prayer,
to be observed by the people of the United 
States in offering up supplications to Almigh-
ty God, for the safety and welfare of the
states, his blessing on their arms, and the
speedy restoration of peace."
			(To be Continued.)


