SANPETE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the Mt.
Pleasant Meeting House, June 9, 1893.
President Mary Ann Price Hyde presiding.
Conference opened with singing, “O my
Father thou that dwellest." Prayer offered
by Brother Edward Cliff, singing “Come
let us anew our journey pursue.” Counsel-
or Sarah Peterson spoke of the many
privileges we enjoy as Latter-day Saints in
building temples and assisting in building
up the kingdom of God. Expressed her
pleasure in seeing Sister Hyde with us
again after so long an absence.
	Minutes of the last conference were then
read. The branches of the Relief Society
of Fairview, Spring City, Mt. Pleasant,
Chester, Milburn, Mayfield and Fountain
Green were represented by their presidents,
all testifying of the unity that existed
among the sisters. President M. A. P.

[Column 2]
Hyde felt grateful that her life had been
spared, that she again had the privilege of
meeting with the sisters; also of the great
power that attended the dedicatory services
of the Salt Lake Temple and the great
humility that was manifested by the breth-
ren “The people of the world are begin-
ning to investigate the religion of the Saints
of God. The work of the Lord is pro-
gressing as it never did before” Blessed
the sisters in the name of the Lord.
Brother C. H. Wheelock spoke of the
union, love and faith existing among the
sisters; prayed that the spirit of God
might rest upon those who are to lead us.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King,” benediction by Brother Johnson.
	AFTERNOON MEETING:—Counselor Sarah
Peterson presiding. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer offered by Bishop C. C.
N. Dorius. Singing “Sing to the great
Jehovah’s praise.” The branches of the
Relief Society of Ephraim, Gunnison
and Manti were represented as being in a
good condition.
	Sister Keller expressed her thankfulness
for the knowledge of the Gospel that she
had received and bore her testimong to its
divinity. “There is no pleasure in living a
sinful life, but great joy in doing the will of
God. Mothers, teach your children the
principles of the gospel as soon as they be-
gin to understand.”
	Sister Lund expressed her desire to do
right and prove faithful to the end. Sister
Nancy Acord said we will have to be very
humble and prayerful if we attain to the
blessings we have set our aim for. Sister
Hasler advised us to put in practice
the teachings we had received at this con-
ference. Sister Anderson bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the gospel. Let us
help one another in spiritual and temporal
things. Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke
giving good advice to the sisters in regard
to their duties.
	Counselor Minerva W. Snow spoke of
the good qualities of our President, Sister
Hyde and of the testimonies of the sisters,
referred to what Brother Woodruff said at
the dedication of the Temple, always speak
well of Zion. “If we do this we will not
speak against the authorities of the Church
or those who are placed over us. There
are only a few living at the present time,
that have had the privilege of seeing the
prophet Joseph. What a great work he
performed in organizing this church and
how merciful the Lord has been unto us in
gathering us from all parts of the earth and
that we have had the privilege of hearing
the testimony of the truth and receiving
it.” Spoke at some length of the duties
of the sisters and of the blessings the Lord
is bestowing upon us daily. President M.
A. P. Hyde who came in after the opening
of the meeting, was thankful that her
counselors had been so energetic in carry-
ing on the work in her absence.” We lose
a great deal by not living near unto the
Lord,” spoke in tongues, and the interpre.
tation was given by Counselor M. W. Snow-
President Canute Peterson spoke of the
promises that were made to the Latter-day
Saints in the Salt Lake Temple, if they
would keep the commandments of God.
"If we have a humble and contrite spirit,
and keep the laws of God, our sins will
be forgiven us.” Bishop Lund asked the
Lord to help us in the performance of our
duties. Singing “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Brother R. N. Allred.


