WOMAN JOURNALISM IN UTAH.

	Almost every phase of women in journal-
ism was presented in the Press Congress
held in May in Chicago, except that of wo-
men in the Rocky Mountain region, the
barren desert of the great inter-mountain
country lying near the American Dead
Sea.
	The Pilgrim women who journeyed
across the trackless waste towards the set-
ting sun, and who were filled with the
enthusiasm born of religious themes and
theories, were also filled with the inspira-
tional and prophetic influences that burst
forth spontaneously in song and verse, not
beautiful perhaps in diction, and not always
correct in rhythm, but strong and forcible
in the expression of the truth.  These
brave mothers, these heroic daughters,
born and nurtured in the cultivated East,
bearing the heavy burdens of pioneer life
in the wilderness (so to speak) had still in
their souls the inspiration of the hour, and
the consciousness of the possibilities wait-
ing for the keynote of woman's upward and
onward march.  Besides the everyday life
in camp and pilgrimage to a promised land,
was the ever present witness of future
destiny that was reserved for the faithful.
	These were a stimulus to poetry and to
refinement, and all along the toilsome
journey, the songs of birds, the glorious
sunsets, the bluest of blue canopies at
night, when the stars were shining, and
the moon sailing on high, these to the
young, ardent and impassioned disciples of
an abiding faith (and indeed to some of
maturer years,) were fountains that bub-
bled with a charming effervescence, that set
their souls to the music of nature in its 
broadest, highest and most exalted sense.
	After reaching the valley of the Great
Salt Lake the first effusions that appeared
in print were the songs of Eliza R. Snow
and of Sarah E. Carmichael,and these were
followed by others from year to year, who
contributed both prose and verse to the
newspapers early established by the found-
ers of the new Territory.  Many names
dear to the hearts of the people might be
mentioned in this connection; some have
passed away, others still live and are ad-
ding to the current literature of the West.
Foremost of those we miss from our roll of
honor, besides our poet-laureate, Eliza R.
Snow, are Hannah T. King and Mary J.
Tanner.  Those who still remain of the
number are making a record that will go
down to posterity in the history of the
Rocky Mountain country.
	
[Column 2]
	The Deseret News established in 1850,
was the first opening for effusions of
this sort and has always given encourage-
ment to women writers of merit.  After-
wards the Salt Lake Herald whose
columns were free to women, who had any-
thing to offer worthy of notice, somewhat
later still "The Utah Magazine," which
only survived a short time, and in 1866 the
Juvenile Instructor both these magazines
were open to women contributors.
	But the time came when women were
not satisfied to be heard only through these
papers and established one of their own,
wherein they could express themselves on
all subjects and represent their particular
views and organizations more definitely and
more effectively.
	The ballot had been given to the women
of Utah in February 1870, and from that
time more particularly, women took a
greater interest in public matters, and were
awakened to the responsibility of the
franchise through its practical application
in the affairs of public life.  A growing
sentiment prevailed among both men and 
women in favor of woman journalism and
on the first day of June 1872, the first num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued.
The editor was Miss Louisa L. Greene,
known then as Lula through her poems, a
young woman who had already become a
favorite with the public through her writ-
ings,and to the editor of the Salt Lake Her-
ald the late Edward L. Sloan, who strongly
recommended her as suitable for the
position.  It was a new field,one altogether
untried in the West, except by Mrs.
Duniway who had just previously started
the New North West in Portland, Oregon.
But of this Miss Greene was not aware un-
til afterwards, nor that Dora Darmoore be-
gan about the same time the publication of
"The Golden Dawn" in San Francisco.
These were the only papers edited and pub-
lished entirely by women west of the Mis-
sissippi river at that time, as a matter of
fact. The EXPONENT the very first except
the New North West.  Women type-set-
ters were employed to do the work and the
girls make up the paper as well, so that all
our work is done by women except the
press work.
	The editorial in the first number of the
paper, sets forth in a few words that al-
though the women of Utah are in posses-
sion of the ballot there is ample work to do,
"truth to be dissemminated,errors to be com-
batted, intelligence to be communicated, the
right to be vindicated and misrepresenta-
tions to be corrected."  Indeed it is quite
an able article, and is worthy the subjects
which through all these years the EX-
PONENT has advocated and labored to
maintain.  In 1873, about a year after the
EXPONENT was issued, Miss Greene was
married to L. W. Richards, and assumed
the duties of house-keeping in addition to
editorial work and March 1st, 1873, Miss
Cornelia H. Horne was made business
manager of the EXPONENT.  Later on in
October 1874, Mrs. Richard’s family duties
increased and several ladies who had been
contributors volunteered assistance in the
editorial work.  The present editor being
one of that number. In May 1875 the writer
assumed regular duty in the office which has
been continued ever since.  In November
1876 Miss Horne resigned as business
manager for a higher position in a home of
her own, and in July 1877, Mrs. Richards
vacated the editorial chair in favor of the
present incumbent.  It is quite impos-

[Column 3]
sible to estimate the good accomplished by
this one little paper, and what has been
done clearly demonstrates the value of wo-
man's work in journalism to those
acquainted with the facts.
	Other periodicals besides those mentioned
that have since given opportunities for wo-
men writers, are The Amateur in Ogden,
The Contributor established October 1879,
Tullidge's Magazine, monthly the finest
Magazine in the West which is now dis-
continued, The Utah Magazine first known
as Parry's Magazine, and in October 1889,
The Young Woman's Journal, a monthly
magazine, was started in the interest of  the
young women of the Territory, the editor
is Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	These papers as also some others of less
importance give ample opportunity for wo-
men to express their views and opinions on
all subjects, and women are employed
regularly on nearly all the papers and mag-
azines published in Utah.
	To those unacquainted with the history
of Utah, it may seem surprising to tell
them that women writers here compare
favorably with their sisters in the East, it
is however perfectly true; some of them
have been born and educated there, and in
England and other lands, and have also the
broad free spirit of the West, that seems
spontaneous in this region, and the children
of these parents,born here in this mountain-
ous country possess in a high degree the
temperament and tendencies that are the
natural result of the climate and scenery
among which they have been born and
nurtured.  Great things in the way of
literature are expected from the native born
children of the inter-mountain country.
Even now we have many young women
whose journalistic work is well worth com-
mending, and of whose career we are justly
proud.
	Of women regularly employed in news-
paper offices there are not very many be-
cause the field for office work is not so
large, but there are some,and as regular con-
tributors there are many.  Among our 
best regular prose writers, of the present
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, who has written
essays, stories and various articles and
biographical sketches is particularly hap-
py in dealing with common place mat-
ters, as well as those that require depth of
thought, and beauty of expression.  She
is the author of several books.  We must
mention, Lu Dalton, who is capable of
handling almost any subject in a masterly
manner;  Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh an
English woman who has been accustomed
to wield the pen for many years, having
traveled extensively in foreign countries
is therefore qualified to write interestingly
on oriental themes, and is able to keep up
too with current topics of the day and deal
with them understandingly.  Ruby La-
mont a Utah girl of Scandinavian paren-
tage is somwhat classical in style, but
writes remarkably well on local themes also.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson educated in Cam-
bridge, England is a remarkably gifted
writer, and whatever subject she grasps
handles it like a master workman.  She is
more concise than most women, her senten-
ces are clear cut and forcible, yet altogether
smooth, harmonious and skillfully polished.
	Helen Mar Whitney is one of the most
forcible writers, her articles are always ele-
vating in tone and her type is strictly spirit-
ual.  Lula Greene Richards previously
mentioned is also decidedly religiously
in all her journalistic work, her writings


[Columm 1]
are pure in sentiment and she is a great
favorite in her articles for children. Susa
Y. Gates is perhaps the most prolific writer
among the journalists in Utah,
including a great variety of subjects besides
her own magazine work, stories long and
short, political, religious and household
matters.  Among the younger writers born
and educated here who are doing good
work and give promise of greater excellence
in the future, is Annie Wells Cannon
(Camelia) editorial contributor to this paper
and who has written occasionally ever since
she was very young, and has successfully
managed tile editorial work in our absence
a great many times.  Mrs. Cannon’s letters
from Germany and Switzerland in 1883 and
84 were charming in style and realistic in
description.  Another of the younger
journalists who is fast making herself wide-
ly and very favorably known, also Utah
born and educated, is Josephine Spencer,
she writes upon a variety of subjects, many
of them descriptive in which she certainly
excels. She also takes up national themes,
and is very good at stories long and short,
has secured several prizes in this line; has
been a bright and entertaining correspond-
ent for our local papers at the World’s Fair.
	Lillie T. Freeze also Utah born
writes in something of the tender, pathetic
style, religious in tone and reaching out to-
wards the sublime, she seldom deals with
common place subjects.  Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
who came here when a child is a poetical
prose writer, idealistic and sympathetic in
style, and happy in delineation.   A
thorough literary student yet devoted
practically to her profession.  Julia P. M.
Farnsworth born in Utah, has done con-
siderable newspaper work in Beaver,
previous to coming to Salt Lake City where
she now resides.  She deals with political
subjects particularly well, is thoroughly
patriotic in sentiment and emphatic in style,
also motherly in her nature, and writes
happily on all home themes.  Mary A.
Freeze is a very good descriptive writer and
interesting on many other subjects, especial-
ly lofty and religious.  Julia A. McDonald
Utah born and reared has much native
talent, and is a versatile and uncommonly
genial writer, is one of the young women
from whom much is expected in the future.
	Flora L. Shipp is exceptionally gifted as an
imaginative writer, had opportunities been
favorable would ere this have been known
in the West as a novelist, as it is she has
written much, her articles having been pub-
lished mostly in eastern papers and journals.
Sarah E. Russell is one among many of our
young women who have contributed largely
to our home magazines and papers, and is
very pleasing and sweet-toned in sentiment
and style.  Mary Ellen Kimball has con-
siderable merit as a writer upon religious
topics, though she is also decidedly patriotic
in tone.  Willmirth East is one of the
foremost in patriotic themes, and always
manages to put a great deal of the fire of
’76 in her political articles.  Mary A. House
is a philosophical and logical writer, and
deals heavy blows right and left with her
pen when handling subjects that rouse her
indignation.
	Of women who have been regularly em-
ployed on daily papers, as society reporters
there are Eleanor Campbell nee Young,
M.Chaille Benson, Ada Patterson and Dell
Young Harrison.  These young women are
ingenious and attractive in their line of
work, which is one of the most difficult in
the profession.

[Column 2]
	Cornelia A. Paddock is a very able
and accomplished writer and very
well known in the East as efficient in
dealing with charity and social purity sub-
jects, and is the author of several books.
Mary Grant Major now of Utah formerly
of Michigan has been in newspaper and
journalistic work for a number of years,and
polishes accurately her well rounded
sentences.  Jennie D. Froiseth had attained
to some distinction as a writer in the East,
and after coming to Utah edited a woman’s
paper for two or three years the Anti-
Polygamy Standard, she has had great ad-
vantages and a superior education, deals
much with political subjects, is a writer of
fiction and has published several books.
	There are many others too numerous to
mention here, but we must not fail to bring
into this galaxy one or two more. Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, writes not only scientific
articles, but is also an efficient and compre-
hensive writer upon all practical subjects,
and possesses excellence of taste in style,
and correctness of diction.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon B. S., one of
Utah’s young women, is a gifted writer,
not only on subjects pertaining to her pro-
fession, but is happy in description of places
and people, and brilliant in dealing with
lofty themes.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman, who has worked at
type-setting, editing, publishing, and writ-
ing on all subjects for country papers, is a
correspondent for papers and magazines in
Salt Lake City, and has written for Eastern
and Western papers as well, of the style we
can only say she is a very strong and able
writer on almost any subject and might
often be mistaken for a man in the character
of her work.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodmansee,
Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp, Emma
Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel Sears,
Lucy A. Clark, Sophy Valentine, Aretta
Young, Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow,
Mary A. Farnsworth, Zine S. Whitney,
represent a large number of young women
from whom much is expected in the near
future, (though some of them write poetry)
who deal with general and practical sub-
jects. The outlook in literary work among
women is encouraging and in the rapid
growth and increase of business and pop-
ulation in the West it may be safely predicted
that the West will yet stand equal if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment, towards the higher education and
development of mankind.


