MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT is useful is intrinsically ornamen-
tal.
	THE world forgives a great deal in a man
who is kind to his family.
	THE man who controls himself will also
control many other people.
	IF woman lost us Eden, such as she
alone can restore it.—Whittier.
	THE highest and most profitable lesson
is the true knowledge of ourselves.
	BUT one thing on earth is better than the
wife—that is the mother.—Leopold Shafer.
	THE only thing which every one can do,
and the only thing which any one needs do,
is his duty.
	BETTER follow the sternness of a truth
than the glittering delusion of a lie. Men
often follow lies because they shine—T. T.
Lynch.
	IN men of the highest character and
noblest genius there generally exists in-
satiable desire of honor, command, power,
and glory.


SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.
	IT is better to praise a man for his vir-
tues, although they may be few and his
faults many, than to condemn him for his
faults and forget his virtues.
	A DIVINE person is the prophecy of the
mind; a friend is the hope of the heart.
Our beatitude waits for the fullfillment of
these two in one. Ages are opening this
moral force. All force is the shadow or
symbol of that.
	ADMIRATION is a very short-lived pas-
sion that immediately decays upon growing
familiar with its object, unless it be still fed
with fresh discoveries, and kept alive by a
new perpetual succession of miracles rising
to its views.—Addison.
	EVERY sensible man who has the means
and opportunity recuperates himself by
frequent pauses for recreation. He does
not defer his period of pleasure until the
closing months of a worn-out life. He is
too wise to expect impossibilities of nature
the recuperation of an utterly exhausted
body. He has had his comfort and enjoy-
ment in due season, and is grateful to
Heaven that he possesses the means to
procure all the comforts of life, which he
wisely uses to prolong his existence.


