EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Y. L. N. M. I. A. of this County
gave an entertainment in the magnificent
pavilion at Saltair, August 11th, ult., at
which some of the best local talent of the
City appeared in music and recitations.
Nellie C. Taylor presided in the absence of
the President, Mary A. Freeze. After a
selection on the piano by Kate Romney,
President Wilford Woodruff made an ad-
dress which was highly appreciated. His
voice was clear as that of most young men
and he was listened to with the most marked
attention while he graphically related some
of the experiences of the pioneers to this
once barren desert. The solos by Bessie
Deane Allison and Louie Poulton, also the
duet by Maggie Bassett and Thos. Ashworth
were very fine. Dr. M. Hughes Cannon’s
rendition of “The Sioux Chiefs Daughter’’
was excellent also B. L. Young’s humorous
reading. Gov. Caleb West’s address was
effective, particularly in his ovation to the
pioneers. The guitar and mandolin clubs 
discoursed sweet music, and Prof. W. C. 
Clive with his violin solo—Maggie Taylor, 
accompanist—were fully appreciated, music
is always sweeter and more touching upon
the water, and the Saltair pavilion is built
out in the Dead Sea of the West. A din-
ner was given by the Committee of this


Association after the exercises were over
and conversation and musicmade a happy
finale to the brilliant entertainment.
	THE Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this city, on Thursday,
October 5th. The business meeting will
commence at 10 o’clock in the morning,
and it is earnestly requested by the Presi-
dent, Sarah M. Kimball,and the other Ter-
ritorial officers that Delegates from all the
countries should be present and take part in
the election of officers for the ensuing year
and vote, for a Delegate to the Annual
Convention in Washington. At two p. m.
the Convention proper will be held when
it is expected there will be brief addresses
by the ablest exponents of Woman Suffrage
in the Territory, and the results of the
Executive meeting in the morning voted
upon. Presidents in the several counties
should give special attention to this' notice
and to the circular letters sent out by the
Cor. Sec’y. It is intended to make this
Convention attractive and telling in the
cause. The public are invited to the after-
noon session, which is sure to be interest-
ing.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city on Friday
September 22nd, meetings commencing at
10 A. M. and at 2 p. m. as usual. Repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
county are earnestly requested to attend as
well as all members who can be present
The public are also cordially invited and a
special invitation is hereby extended to the-
presiding authorities of the Church and of
the Stake and to all Bishops and brethren
interested in this benevolent institution.


