			Q. CANNON.

	[At The Lawn Fete August 14.]
	THE emancipation of woman has been
almost invariably marked by the advance in
civilization. Politically and professionally
the sex is still deprived of some rights and
privileges possessed by man, but there is no
one now who holds that there is in her either
moral or even intellectual inferiority. So 
far as the law has had to do with the im-
provement in the condition of women, it
like civilization itself, has been gradual in
its operation. But this tendency has been
uniformly in one direction. Women’s
disabilities have one after another been re-
moved until at the present time in most
civilized countries the legal position of wo-
man differs but little from that of man, so
far as regards personal and property rights.
	From a very early time the dependent
position of women is a matter of history.
Sacred and profane records point out to us
that she had but very few of the rights to 
which the other sex was considered en-
titled. In the Mosaic law even, divorce
was a privilege of the husband only; and
daughters inherited only in the absence of
sons. In far eastern countries the sub-
jection of women to their husbands is and
has been always a cardinal principle. In-
heritance of property was traced through
males to the exclusion of the females, and it
is an interesting fact that this, probably as
much as any other influence, led to the
suttee, or burning of the widow upon the
funeral pile of her husband, so that her
life estate in the property might be prompt-
ly extinguished. The dependence of wo-
men under the Roman law was equally
complete; if married, her person and
property passed absolutely into the hands
of her husband; if unmarried, she was un-
der the perpetual tutelage of her father and
her kinsmen. No civil or public office
could she exercise. She could not even
continue a family, for the well known Ro-
man phrase declared that she was the
beginning and the end of her family. It is
true she had certain privileges, but these
were given more from pity for her bodily
weakness and presumed mental incapacity
than for any worthier reason. Paul’s
seeming belief in the inferiority of the sex
was doubtless due to his education in the
Roman law.
	The influence of Christianity in the
securing of rights to which woman, like
every other human being, is entitled, de-
serves full recognition. It made many al-
terations, though not always improvements,
in the laws. Its influence was exercised in
favor of the removal of woman’s disabilities,
and if it did not give her political power, it
at least supported the political power of
those who were her friends.
	Among the barbarous nations of northern
Europe the work of her amelioration was
slower; an early Scandinavian law in
the provision for the “Morning Gift” was
probably the parent to the modern “settled
property," but in some of the old Saxon laws
in England a woman might be burned alive
for a petty theft, especially if she were a
slave, which was no uncommon condition.
Wife-purchase was too common a practice to
need allusion here. She might be led on a
halter to the market-place by her husband
and there exposed and transferred to the
highest purchaser. In a few cases, she
might transmit rights which she herself
could not enjoy. Hence the curious


[Column 1]
anomaly of the French law that a claim
through a woman may be maintained, while
the claim of a woman would be rejected.
The old custom of chivalry, by which a
knight or champion appeared in her defence, 
and she was barred from further manner of
redress, possibly explains the rejection of
her evidence as a witness and her rights to
both person and property.
	My ancestors lived on the Isle of Man, a
small island about as long as our valley of
Salt Lake from the Hot Springs to the
point of the mountain, but not near so wide.
It is a choice and beautiful spot of earth
where freedom has been cherished and very
carefully guarded from the earliest ages.
It has a parliament of its own called the
House of Keys. This legislative body had
an existence long before the British House
of Commons; in fact it is the oldest repre-
sentative body in Europe. Small as that
island is, its inhabitants are proud of
their representative government and of
the antiquity of their House of Keys.
	Democratic equality has prevailed to a
greater extent on that island than any other
part of the British dominions. 
	My reason for alluding to this little spot
is that it is the only part of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
where today parliamentary franchise is ac-
corded to woman, though in all parts of the
British Empire under modem enactments
she may fill high positions in the state.
	Most of the professions and trades have,
during the century, been open to woman in
nearly all European countries; rights of
property have been fixed by generous enact-
ment, and under the operations of the crimi-
nal law she has full protection equal with
her husband, her brother, or her son. The
old Scottish law, if a woman committed a
trespass without her husband’s knowledge,
she might be chastised by him like a child,
has given way to the law establishing the
right of married women to vote at school
elections, and giving them admission to the
universities and to take special courses and
degrees. In our own country the laws are
still more generous; a woman married to a
citizen is deemed a citizen herself; the right
of suffrage in some form or other has been
given her in twenty-eight of the states and
territories. In our own Territory she
voted on all questions until disfranchised
through the Edmunds law. It is of re-
cord that a select committee of the United
States Senate has on two occasions reported
in favor of amending the Constitution so as
to forbid the states making sex the
cause of disfranchisement. In most of our
institutions of learning women are admitted
to equal privileges with the men, and it
need scarcely be said, they have carried off
in all competitions a full share of the honors.
The government itself makes no discrimi-
nation against them in the distribution of
its offices. The proportion of post-mis-
tresses is very large, and of women em-
ployed in the departments at Washington,
it can fall but little short of fifty per cent.
This latter advancement, if such it may be
deemed, dates only from the year 1861,
when in September, Secretary Chase of the
treasury appointed the first lady clerk.
During the ensuing three years there were
twelve women appointed to offices in the
treasury department, and at last reports ten
of these were still occupying their places.
During more than thirty years the number
of women has increased to many thousands,
and in all the duties imposed upon them
they have shown adequate capacity, and in

[Column 2]
skill and faithfulness have shown them-
selves to be in no degree inferior to the
men.
	The Woman’s Congress, or rather
series of congresses, held in Chicago re-
cently, is undoubtedly the most notable
gathering of its kind in all history; every
civilized land and some that are not civilized
were represented at these conventions, and
the judgment of those who witnessed the
proceedings agree substantially in this: that
no gathering of men so cosmopolitan and
so numerous ever displayed greater ability
and gave more complete evidence of brain
power, and energy, and administrative
ability on the part of the members, than
this congress of women.
	Every man, be he husband, father,
brother or son must rejoice in the enlarged
liberty and increased privileges which wo- 
men now possess. There was no act pass-
ed by our Legislative Assembly while I was
a member of that body in which I took
greater interest than the enactment which
gave women the right to hold property in
their own name.  The sex should be re-
lieved from every disability, and every ad-
vantage should be accorded to woman
which will qualify her to stand side by side
with man. Having this feeling, on a recent
visit to the World’s Fair at Chicago I took
great interest in every improvement that
would lighten woman’s labor and relieve
her from drudgery. How often have we
seen a young married couple start out side
by side in life together, the husband and
the wife equal in education and ability, one
as capable of progress as the other; but
after the lapse of a few years what a change
frequently takes place! If their circum-
stances are moderate, and the wife has had
to devote herself to the duties of her house-
hold without leisure to cultivate herself, an
inequality appears. The wife has not pro-
gressed in some directions as the hus-
band has. If a man of intelligence, he has
availed himself of the advantage which his
sex possesses, and to a certain extent, he
is a man of intelligence through the ad-
vantages which has left his wife behind.
Her lagging behind has not been because
of any inferiority on her part, but because
the nature of her employment has kept her
confined to a narrow circle, and with but
limited contact with others, and she has
neither had time nor opportunities to im-
prove as rapidly as her husband.  Every
reflecting father who has daughters and
who desires their happiness and their growth
in everything that is elevating, must take
interest in those improvements and inven-
tions which will lighten woman’s toil and
give her more leisure to cultivate the
abilities which she possesses. Co-operative
societies for cooking and laundry work, if
properly organized and maintained, would
do much for the sex in lightening house-
hold labors and furnishing this healthful
and proper leisure.
	These subjects should receive the at-
tention of the men, but woman herself can
do much towards bringing about changes
which will greatly improve her condition and
secure to her advantages that at the present
time are not generally within her reach.
The energy which the sex has displayed
in many directions, the determination
which has been evinced to remove from
woman’s pathway all obstacles which im-
pede her progress, will doubtless be turned
in the directions which I speak of and with
the happiest results.
	Woman’s day is dawning. The

[Column 3]
twentieth century, say disinterested observ-
ers, will be the woman’s century. In-
deed, some who in a joke may be uttering a
solemn truth, aver that the coming man will
be a woman.


