UNIVERSITY OF UTAH.
	THE University of Utah is now in a
most excellent condition. It has been a
continued effort on the part of the Regents
to put the University on equal standing
with the majority of other like institutions
in the United States and they have now
succeeded in doing so.
	Important additions to its forces have
been made for the coming school year. Dr.
James E. Talmage, a graduate of Lehi
University, and a well known educator of
our Territory, has been appointed Professor
of Metallurgy and Biology. Joseph F.
Merrill, a graduate of Ann Arbor and a
student in Chemistry at Cornell University
whose chemical laboratories are the finest in
the United States, is to do part of the work
in Chemistry as Assistant Professor. Byron
Cumming, a graduate of the Oswego Nor-
mal school and also of Rutger’s College
and who has been a successful educator for
a number of years, is to assist in Latin and
English. William D. Neal, who has been
doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University, is to assist in Geology and -
Mineralogy. Joseph P. White, who has
been doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University in Physics and Mathematics will
give some of his time in doing work for the
mathematical department besides carrying
on the work he has heretofore done in
Physics.
	All of the departments will be greatly
strengthened by these accessions, as each
man named has been selected on account of
his unusual fitness for the position to which
he has been appointed.
	The faculty of the University has thus
been increased and its standard has been
raised to a position that must command the
respect of all intelligent persons. No
degree in any course is given except for
four years of actual work. It is the pur-
pose of the University authorities to exert
an influence toward elevating the standard 
of work done in our Territory, for which
degrees may be issued and it is sincerely
hoped that all educators will cooperate in
promoting an object of such great impor-
tance.
	The University will open Sept. 18th.
During the first two or three days, com-
mencing at 9 a. m. entrance examinations
will take place. The prospects are that the
University will be crowded with earnest,
industrious students from all parts of the
Territory.


