DAVIS STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held at Kaysville July, 21st,
1893.
	President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand from Salt Lake
City, Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells
also Bishop Barton and others.
    Meeting opened by singing “And are we
yet alive’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Mary
Clark, Singing, “Redeemer of Israel our
only delight.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved.
    President Grant expressed her pleasure
at again meeting in the capacity of a con-
ference, “I know that it is a very busy time
here and we can’t expect many to come to
meeting. I feel to acknowledge the hand
of  the Lord in all  things. I think we are
blest in coming forth in this day, and there
are so many blessings that  we enjoy.”
Spoke about sustaining our home papers, “I
think it is our duty to do so especially the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. My counselors and
I have visited the different branches in the
county and were kindly received by the
bishops and the people; we enjoy and bene-
fit ourselves when we do our  duty. We
have come together to be blest and comfort-
ed and I think that we will be. I should
like very much to see the young prepare
themselves for this work. May the spirit
of the Lord  rest abundantly on each one
that may speak to us.”
	Sister M. I. Horne said she always felt
that the path of duty is the path of safety.
It does not matter who the speaker is if
they have the spirit of the Lord to dictate
them; said we should try and do away with
the spirit of faultfinding, spoke about the
World’s Fair and the grand exhibits they
had there. Said those who have not re-
ceived the gospel are far behind us in the
knowledge of good; showed the difference 
in opinions of people in regard to the
World’s Fair; referred to the temple and
what a grand privilege and blessing it is to
us to go there and work for the dead


well as the living. It is very necessary for
us to be economical these trying times.
There are a great many things to cheer
saints. We should improve every oppor-
tunity of preparing ourselves to keep up
with the times. May we live so as to have
the good will of our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Browet a very aged lady bore her
testimony then related a very interesting
dream, after which she spoke in tongues
which was interpreted by Sister Eliza
Clark.
	President Sarah B. Layton represented
Kaysville Society, and made some very in-
teresting remarks said she had been in the
Church fifty-two years and had never had
a doubt of the truth of the Gospel and
hoped that nothing would ever come along
that would prove a stumbling block to her
for she had a desire to press forward to the
end.
	Mrs. Helen Miller represented Farming-
ton.
	President Mary A Walker represented
Syracuse.
	President Grant then adjourned meeting
until afternoon. Singing “My God the
spring of all my joys."
	Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Andrews reported
South Hooper and Sister Page South Boun-
tiful, the remarks were all good aud en-
couraging.
	Sisters Wells and Horne spoke very
lengthily and interestingly about the
World’s Fair, said the exhibits were
beautiful almost beyond description.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers said she had en-
joyed the meeting and could testify that the
spirit of the Lord was here.
	Bishop Barton, “I will merely say that I
have been very much interested in the re-
marks of the sisters and also the description
of the World’s Fair, it shows the greatness
of God in inspiring the men to get up these
artistic designs. I can testify to the good
that the Relief Society has done, it is a
great help to the bishops,” spoke about the
times said we should act wisely and econo-
mise, the women can do a great deal in
connection with their husbands, spoke about
helping the poor, I pray the spirit of the
Lord will rest upon us as a people, etc.
	President Grant adjourned the meeting
for three months to East Bountiful. Sing-
ing “May the Grace of Christ our
Saviour,” etc. Benediction by President
Mary A. Walker. PHEBE C. SESSIONS,
								Sec


