"Remember the worth of souls is great LESSON DEPARTMENT in the sight of God... And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my father!' So we must conclude that if Christ's teaching means anything at all, if the souls of men are worth so much to God, and if God wants us to be His real sons and daughters, ?it logically follows that man must exhibit that same kind of unselfish love toward his brethren that God displays toward him. This is the essence of brotherhood. Questions 1. What advances in our material culture have made it more possible than ever to practically demonstrate world brotherhood? What is your estimate of the way in which we are taking advantage of them? 2. Has the idea of a world brotherhood made many gains as a result of the World War? 3. How do you think Christ would 599 view the common slogan to the effect that "Large armies and navies will keep us out of war?" (See Doctrine and Covenants 98:15, 16.) 4. In what ways can our missionary system help advance world brotherhood? 5. What problems. Have you in your community that the Relief Society and priesthood quorums could solve and thus demonstrate a real sense of brotherhood? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Ask the superintendent of schools in your district to give you some facts relative to remedial physical defects among the school children. In the light of our lesson what is the duty of your community? 2. In the face of Christ's declaration about the brotherhood of men, explain Matthew 15:24; compare Matthew 10:5, 6. Teacher's Topic OPTIMISM OF JESUS "Nothing can replace in our spiritual lives the constant perusal of the Gospels with a view to treasure up the character traits of the Son of God that we may pattern after Him." "Who is he that overcometh the world but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God." "How good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ; All the heart and the soul and the senses Forever in joy!" ?Browning. "Optimism compels the world forward and gives to men the incentive to fight with circumstance. ?It is faith that leads to achievement; it is confidence in the present and hope for the future." OFTEN we class as an optimist one who lives with the delusion that no matter what he or any one else does, everything is certain to come out all right in the end. This is a cheap sort of optimism and is the product of a "shallow brain and stupid heart." Many individuals there are who take refuge from the realities of 600 life in dreams of good and call themselves optimists. Optimism of this sort is like a house built upon the sand. Then, there is a dangerous optimism of ignorance and indifference where a hopeful outlook upon life is maintained by refusing to know and to see; where evil is ignored and only the good contemplated. How poor, how undesirable this is! The optimism to be admired and desired is that which rests on a glad belief in the final predominance of good and a willing desire to co-operate with the good that it may prevail. Genuine optimism does not deny the existence of evil, it does not refuse to look at the world's woes, it recognizes the reality and gravity of life, accepting it as something valuable, looking forward with faith and confidence in the power to resist, to change, to meet courageously and to conquer. It does not build cloud castles of happiness but sees life as stern yet worthy, and maintains a hopeful outlook. Real optimism is neither unwilling to face disagreeable facts nor disposed to be daunted by them, however stubborn they may be. Dark things are but a "halt on the way to good." Optimists of this type are not easily discouraged or argued into hopelessness. They face the future with bright anticipation and with confidence in the present and hope for the future. They see the best in everything and everyone and make that best a part of themselves. The element of optimism in Christ's life was immensely preponderant. He came as a prophet of good with a message of hope. He was not blind to the evils, the sorrows and heart breaks of the world. He was acquainted with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suffering. He knew the strength required to grapple with and resist evil. He knew the dark and the bright sides of life and he was never daunted. He constantly exhorted mankind, "Be of good cheer." He comforted his disciples against tribulation with a hopeful outlook. "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." Jesus had an abiding faith and confidence in God and taught men to have likewise. He exhorted his disciples, "Have faith in God." This is the secret of real optimism. He who has faith in his Heavenly Father and makes a friend of him, straightway feels glad, brave, and ready for any lot. Jesus had an unswerving confidence in man. The Gospels are rich with illustrations. He had confidence in Zacchaeus to repent. Zacchaeus was a rich man, chief among the publicans. When Jesus went to his home the people murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, "This day is salvation come to this house." Most mistreated of all men the Master evidenced always faith in human nature. When he saw that men were determined to take his life he said, "If I be lifted up I will draw all men unto me! He felt that no matter what cruel things human nature might be guilty of, there was after all, down LESSON DEPARTMENT deep in the heart, that which would respond to forgiveness and love." The New Testament though telling us a heart breaking story does not depress us. Its message is of hope, it breathes always, "Be of good cheer." The L. D. S. Religion keeps optimism alive. The confidence and trust which springs from our beliefs makes optimists of us. It gives us a basic confidence in the good destiny of life. Sometimes we become discouraged and ready to falter. In the midst of such feelings we should study the character of the Master. We must maintain confidence in self, in mankind, in life and faith in God. 601 Disheartening though things may be at times we must "Be of good cheer." References:?Character of Jesus ?Jefferson; John 16:33; Mark 11:22; Luke 19:1-10; John 12:32. Questions 1. Why is optimism that refuses to face realities of life like "a house built upon the sand'? 2. Why is it a dangerous optimism to contemplate only the good? 3. What effect does a study of the life of Christ have upon your optimism? 4, Why may Helen Keller, Jane Addams, Abraham Lincoln be classed as great optimists? Literature Lesson III SACAGAWEA USUALLY when a goal has been reached, a story loses interest, but not so with this "Star of the West." Perhaps the reason can be found in the fact that after all it is not a romance but a true story of a noble woman's life. Mrs. Heuston, full to the brim of the Indian woman, keeps her tale at a high level to the very end. The return trip up the Columbia and over the Rocky Mountains was as difficult as the going over. Eager to get home, the Captains and the men would not wait until the snow had melted from the high mountains. As a result they met with many hardships. The Indians along the way were not very helpful. Indeed, often they were really dangerous, but the cool courage and watchfulness of the Captains won in the end. All this time Sacagawea's baby had been growing until on the return trip he became the idol of the entire party. Clark, as well as many of the men, fondled the boy and made a great fuss over him, many of them calling him Pomp or Pompy and not by his own name. During the long journey and the wait at the foot of the Rockies for the snow to melt, Pomp became ill. "One day, Sacagawea did not go out into the fields to gather roots. She sat alone in her shelter nursing the child, who was ill and feverish trying in her own way to relieve it, with no effect. When the Captains returned she went to them, not shyly, now, for it was for Pomp she must ask this favor. "Pomp was teething. The Captain 602 worked over him giving him what crude medicines they had and poulticing him with boiled onions. They removed the woman and her child to their shelter where they could be more comfortable and where they could look after the idol of the camp. The rough men were all disturbed by the illness and did everything in their power to assist. "At last Pomp got better. "Were you afraid he would die, Janey?' Clark asked when Pomp was out of danger. " 'No,' she said simply. 'I felt sad that the child had pain, but I knew you would make him well.' " So implicit was the Bird-Woman's faith in the Captains and especially in the Red Head, nothing seemed impossible for them to do. As she told her brother, "They know everything." When the party had safely recrossed the great Saw-Tooth Range of mountains which lies along the border of Idaho and Montana and had camped once more at Traveler's Rest, it was decided that the party should separate; a part of it was to go with Lewis upon an exploration of the Marias River country and a part to go with Clark to explore the Yellowstone, the two companies to meet at the confluence of the Yellowstone and the Missouri. Since Lewis was going into a dangerous territory, he called for volunteers. Nearly every man in the company responded, but he selected from their number to be his companions Drouillard, Reuben and Jo Fields, Warner, Frazier, and Sergeant Gass. It was decided that Charbonneau should accompany Clark. "And Sacagawea?" "Sacagawea's eyes were wistful. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'I would like much,' she said, 'to go to the great river of the Yellow Rocks. My nation goes there often. I should like that.' " Clark remonstrated with her kindly as he thought it would be better for her to go as far as the Great Falls with Lewis and there have a good rest while the men prepared the boats for the river again. "It is a long and hazardous trip ] am undertaking," Clark said to her. "We may run short of food. We may find great danger from the Crows in that region." "Sacagawea's dark eyes were shining. 'Was I ever afraid?' she asked simply. "Clark smiled. 'Never. All right, if you wish it, you may come with me.'" And she went. Indeed, the little Bird-Woman would have gone through fire with the Red Head. With Clark went twenty men including York, Sacagawea, and the child, Pomp. "Clark was in high spirits. Riding up beside Sacagawea, he tickled the baby on the chin.. "Hi, Pomp!' he said. 'Off on a long trip with the Red Head, eh?' "Sacagawea flushed with pleasure at the friendly gesture. 'He likes riding,' she admitted. ""Riding! He's a lazy young rogue! When does he not ride? If no horse is allotted him, has he not always his devoted mother?' " The following day was July 4, 1806. The party celebrated the occasion by enjoying a sumptuous meal of deer meat. As they rode along on this journey, Clark plied the Indian woman with questions about the country. The intelligent squaw was able to identify the region and especially the mountain peaks and passes. They finally arrived at the head LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Jefferson River where they had left one of their richest cache's of supplies. Here Captain Clark divided his party again, one part to follow their old trail down to the Great Falls where they were to join with some of Lewis's men, and the others to go with him down the unexplored Yellowstone. Here again, thinking of her own good, Clark tried to induce Janey to go with the men the easier way telling her that his way might be very dangerous. But once again she plead with him saying that she would like to see the River of the Yellow Rocks. "Janey, it will be a hard trip," he warned her.... "If you go down to the falls with the canoes you can wait for us there and get a rest." "I am not tired," she said simply. Clark smiled. "Janey, you shall go. You are the first man in my party.". As always, Sacagawea proved to be Clark's best "man." Knowing the country from memory of her childhood she led him unerringly through passes which he might have had difficulty in finding. At last they reached the Yellowstone and started down that river. On July 25, 1806, they camped beside a great pillar which they called Pompy's Tower naming it after the little half-breed Indian boy, pride of the camp. (See in connection with this name Mrs. Heuston's note in the Appendix.) On top of this pillar Clark carved him name: "William Clark, July 25, 1806." "Six hundred and_ thirty-six miles Clark and his band, six men and Sacagawea, descended the Yellowstone in their lashed canoes; but arriving at the appointed 603 rendezvous found the mosquitoes so thick they could neither hunt nor dress skins for clothing." They pushed on and were joined by Lewis farther down the Missouri. Mrs. Heuston gives a graphic account of Lewis's adventures, but since Sacagawea, subject of our lessons, was with Clark, it will not be necessary for the class to follow Lewis unless they wish to do so. On August 14, 1806, after having been "Where no man had ever been before," the little party once more reached the Mandan towns from which they had started their journey more than a year earlier. They were accorded a great reception, but to at least two people, the home-coming was not all happiness. Captain Clark was troubled about the fate of Janey and her little son both of whom he had come to regard tenderly, and Sacagawea was sad because of the parting from the Red Head, which was inevitable, and the return from being a respected guide and interpreter to a slave-wife of a worthless cruel fellow. Clark's "leave-taking" of Sacagawea was brief. Sacagawea's face was pale, like ivory deepened by time, no longer shining rosy and copper. Her patient eyes were without light. But she had no complaint. She asked nothing. "Janey," he said gently, "I am very sorry to leave you in this place. You are a great soul. I regret that you must return to that slavery. I wish you could continue with us...." "Mon homme will not go," she said quietly. "Life does those things." Charbonneau bustled up. "Quick, Chienne (dog)," he said, "bring my pack and my robes. It is time for going." 604 "Janey," Clark said, "when the time comes, urge him to send Pomp to me. I will be good to him. I will have him taught many things. Make Charbonneau do this." ?I will try," she said. With the child she took upon her back Charbonneau's bags and blankets, his tools and skins. She smiled back at Clark a grave, unshining smile. "Ordway, send a man to carry that stuff to the village for the poor soul." Unable to endure the sight, he moved away. Sacagawea, turning for one last look at the beloved Red Head, could not find him. With a smile for the past, a sigh for the future, she trudged quietly up to the town after Charbonneau. William Clark was not soon to forget the Indian woman who had been so important during their expedition, or the little boy, Pomp, who had been the idol of the camp. The picture Mrs. Heuston paints of Sacagawea in St. Louis in the home of the beloved Red Head and his white wife, is pathetic and might well be read in class in order that the sad beauty of the picture might not be marred. The sad yet happy story of Sacagawea's death is also beautifully told?dramatically told. The last pages of the book might well be read in their entirety. In concluding these lessons, it would be well to review the art found in the book "Star of the West." The author has taken RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE some crude journals and a journey over the old trails and has succeeded in reconstructing a personality that has the right to be known and loved by all those who love loyal and brave hearts. There will be those who will say that Mrs. Heuston has romanticized too much; that she has taken too many liberties with the facts available, yet I am sure readers of the book will find themselves championing her efforts. The quotations in this lesson From Star of the West By Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, Used by Special Permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company. Suggestions For Class Work 1. Follow on a map the return journey of the adventurers. If any one in the class has followed any part of the trail, she might be asked to give personal experiences. 2. To what incident does Clark refer in his last speech?"plenty of potatoes?" 3. What is a savage? Review Clark's statements to his wife near the close of chapter twenty-one. Was Sacagawea's son one? 4. Has Sacagawea a right to a place of honor among women? If so, upon what are your arguments based? 5. Do you consider Mrs. Heuston a good writer? If so, why? If not, why not? How do you rate the book? LESSON DEPARTMENT 605 ~ Social Service Lesson III Public OPINION AND PROPAGANDA Text: "Civic Sociology," by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXIX. THE field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda, but the most intelligent thinking is based upon calm consideration of all phases of a given question. Serious opinion is not the product of the careless views which are freely expressed by the man in the street. One should neither take catch-penny phrases for such, nor think he is contributing to the solution ofa problem by himself joining in such conversation. However, opinions, ideas, and behavior are the results of human contacts and associations, and moral ideals are greatly influenced in the same way. Because people are so responsive to the opinions of others, the field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda. The majority of the common thought patterns of the day are founded upon this principle. Propaganda is constantly being spread through the various channels of expression in modern life. Mental laziness tends toward its unquestioned acceptance. But sound ideas and logical methods of arriving at conclusions are vital to social welfare. The customs and institutions under which we live are constantly changing. Naturally the changes will be directed by those people who are capable of independent thought in so far as the limiting factors of the change do not interfere with the desired course of action. There have always been methods of propaganda through which powerful minds could work. Invention has made the modern world a particularly apt field for the widespread diffusion of concerted plans of action. Indeed we can almost talk over the fence of another nation's backyard our present means of comunication by radio and telephone is so handy. "All the world is a neighborhood" is truly an apt slogan. Some leaders use their power for the good of society, but many do not. Most followers fail to recognize propaganda as such, and are therefore unaware that they are being used to further some particular interest. Often those who are aware of the fact do not resist it because they are too lazy, or they are afraid of adverse criticism for opposing the prevailing ideas or customs of the times. Therefore, it is very necessary to call attention to the need for intelligent thought and deliberation upon any policy of life, whether private or public, before action is taken or opinions are formed. In this lesson the following points will be discussed: 1. Each individual should strive to acquire the habit of securing all the facts upon public questions before forming an opinion in regard to them. 2. Opinions should be drawn from fact and not from propaganda. Propaganda is the deliberate spreading of a doctrine or principle through concerted action in order to shape public opinion. It may be insidious in its working. The influence is often subtle, and 606 generally it is not recognized by the mass.. However, true democratic government is dependent upon the intelligent opinions of its citizens. Originally the information which served as a basis for the forming of opinions upon matters of public interest was presented directly to the people at the town meetings. Opinions were derived from interpretations and conclusions which were the result of due consideration and mutual discussion of the problems. This system possessed many elements of safety, and it contributed to the development of logical thought and well balanced judgment. But naturally it was suited only to the simplest form of society. Today the instructions for governmental procedure and the carrying out of its wishes may be given either directly or through any one of many possible methods. But these methods of carrying out the governmental wishes are often used to serve individual purposes. Dictators are apt to assume control of all methods of communication in their own countries. People who live under them are practically forbidden to express any private opinions upon public matters. It is even dangerous to form them lest one should think out loud. Personal initiative is largely forbidden. Laws, the levying of taxes, and the issuing of decrees originate from a single source. It is also true that the opportunity for acquiring knowledge of the basic facts of every day situations in countries where a large measure of individual freedom exists has become greatly diminished. It is difficult to form logical opinions upon public questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Personal contacts are seldom made in town meetings. Frank discussion of ideas has disappeared to a large extent, because such means of communication as the radio make it very easy for the propagandists to do all the talking. Their ideas are so dramatically presented to the public that the public does not stop to question the value of the ideas, and the mass of people is so nearly powerless to counter with opposing opinions that the effort to do so is seldom made. Advertising is made almost irresistibly attractive. Here it is also very difficult to secure the facts which are necessary to the forming of logical conclusions. In a country where the agencies of publicity have been multiplied as manifoldly as they have in the United States, the securing of facts should be an easy matter. But the agencies are too largely controlled by private interests to make this possible. Only that part of any idea which fosters favorable reactions to the interest which has subsidized the means of communication reaches the public by means of the press or the radio. Well informed individuals on a given subject are not those who generally publicize the facts of the case. Newspapers are usually owned by corporations which regulate the interpretation of the news according to their own interests. Separate and apart from the interests of the owners of the papers, an advertiser who spends enormous sums of money on the advertising of his business will not give his publicity work to any medium which publishes information which is detrimental to his affairs and interests, Magazines LESSON DEPARTMENT are likewise owned by special causes and are thus devoted to them. The radio sells its time for private purposes. And the motion picture industry caters to popular opinion. Each agency has its own board of censorship which usually sifts the facts which pertain to its interests according to a predetermined point of view. Under all these circumstances it is difficult to form unbiased public opinion. In order that the public may know who is doing the thinking that is back of the ideas which are presented to the public, or who is responsible for them, and also that the public may know the specific person or agency who is the means of utterance, there is a law which requires that the true ownership of each newspaper and magazine must be published, the author or sponsor of every radio talk must be announced, and the purchasers of all advertising space must be made known. A similar law holds true in its respective way in regard to the hundreds of thousands of products which are offered for sale, because public opinion is as fertile a field for propaganda which is offered by the salesman of goods as for the projector of ideas. But relatively few people seek information in regard to either matter. They do not investigate, nor do they question what is offered. They are prone to accept, and a great body of public opinion is thus formed which is never weighed in relation to the best good of both private and public interests. Our attitudes upon strikes and other industrial problems are very apt to be the result of the propaganda to which the public is ex- 607 posed. Each participating party in such controversies deliberately spreads information which supports its own contentions, while those which serve the opposing force are withheld. Public opinion upon international questions is largely determined by propaganda. The mutual hatred of nations during war times is the result of this influence. Only those facts which support their own nation are given to belligerents. Those which are opposed are strictly withheld, as is all fairness of opinion in regard to the combatants. The recent Italian advance upon the Ethiopians was facilitated for the Italians by the propaganda that was spread among the Ethiopians in regard to the great rewards which the latter would receive as an award for deserting their own ruler and joining the Italian cause. During the World War both the Allies and the Central Powers spread information among their own nations which caused intense hatred of the opposing nations and much misinformation and misunderstanding as to the cause of the war. Probably the most deadly effect of all propaganda during war times is the horrible influence which is exerted upon a nation's own citizens. Hundreds of thousands, and even millions, of men lay down their lives in the flaming spirit of war when the torch has been lighted for no other purpose than the selfish motives of munitions magnates and seekers of greater and yet greater sovereign power. Potentates have it within their power to stir up international hatreds in the name of patriotism, and they are not adverse to using all the propaganda within their means to do so, as history 608 so sadly points out. When war results, countless numbers of men actually lay down their precious lives to no other cause than selfishness and hatred. Parenthood, talent, scientific discovery is thus lost to the world. It is irreparable. The stories of religious persecutions of past generations furnish excellent examples of the insidious nature of propaganda. Our own church has suffered from this cause. False information has been deliberately spread with a conscious effort to form public opinion against the church and its members. The unfairness of such unprincipled action is clearly recognizable, yet it is a rather common occurrence to find the same type of work being applied to the problems of the day. The greatest example in all history of the dire consequences of concerted action against an individual is the Jewish demand for the condemnation of Christ. Pilate realized that the Messiah was guilty of no offence, but as a result of the planned actions of Jesus' enemies, he was allowed no alternative as a result of the trial than to pronounce the awful sentence of crucifixion. It is true that Christ's agony was part of the Scriptural plan, but that does not alter the fact that His suffering was the result of propaganda. On the other hand, Peter's denial of his Savior is probably the most dramatic illustration in the world of the weakness of giving in to the ruling spirit of propaganda instead of defending a person or the conviction of right in the face of concerted action. What can be done to foster more intelligent public opinion? People must be taught to seek RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all the available facts which bear upon any important situation. Opinions should be based upon a consideration of all points of view. A demand should be made for accurate and all-embracing views on public matters. It is important to realize how difficult it is to get at such facts, but the habit of withholding judgment until one has arrived at them should be cultivated. It should be borne in mind that special interests are always seeking support for their own causes, and that public support is a very effective weapon against misrepresentation. It could be so used if the public would rise to the occasion. The public has a right to the facts of a case and to a knowledge of all sides of a question in return for its support. After all, subsidies and democracies are dependent for their very life upon public favor. Conclusions in regard to any given subject should be based upon intelligent and unbiased opinions. From the foregoing it is evident that each individual should strive to acquire the habit of seeking all possible knowledge before arriving at conclusions. He should learn to detect specialized interests in public announcements and advertising. His opinions should be drawn from facts and not from propaganda. He should learn to recognize propaganda. And he should be unashamed to declare himself in favor of the right in so far as he is able to recognize governing and spiritual laws.
5. Activities
6. Relate some incident in the early history of our Church where members have been persecuted. See if you can account for the per- LESSON DEPARTMENT secution by propaganda which has been spread among the persecutors.
7. Determine the ownership of the newspapers in your home 609 town. From the knowledge of the ownership can you detect any policy which the paper would be bound to carry out because of its ownership?
8. Literature for Missions
9. TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
10. MAGDALENA STRAUBHAAR SCHWENDIMAN Born in Switzerland
11. LET us go again to the continent of Europe for the subject of this lesson. Out of the thousands of lives found there suitable for our purpose we have chosen that of Magdalena Strubhaar Schwendiman. Switzerland was her native land, and she first saw light in a humble home nestled in the shadows of the mighty Alps and amid some of the most attractive natural scenery found out-of-doors in a little mountain village. It was October 11, 1845, that her mother gave her birth. Her father had previously died, and before long her mother did also, leaving the little girl to the care of relatives. This position of dependency she began to sense and wanted to overcome as soon as possible. Thus she early exhibited the quality of self-reliance that was later so helpful to her. She soon obtained employment in a high-class tourist resort, an attractive hotel situated near the top of a mountain. Here she met many people from all parts of the world and made many friends. Her pleasing personality attracted their attention and many of them corresponded with her for years afterward. Her influence radiated a warmth and kindness to all whom she met, and they said to know her was to love her. She was religiously inclined from birth, believed in prayer and had an abiding faith in the divine guidance of our Heavenly Father. To Him were attributed all her successes and achievements and good fortune through life. She had many offers to marry in wealth and luxury, but her ambition was not for wealth. She preferred and longed for a humble and wholesome home in which to rear a family, and a life's companion who did not use liquor nor tobacco. Young men of this type were very few at that time. But she became acquainted with one such, Samuel Schwendiman. Their ideals were much alike and their early friendship developed in later years into love. In 1871 they were married, and to this happy union six sons were born by the year 1884. The wife realized her responsibility and was indeed an ideal mother. Her greatest desire was to see her sons grow up to be honorable and useful men. She endured many hardships and made many sacrifices, but it was all a privilege to her. Her whole life was given in service to her family and her friends. She was a 610 natural leader and many were made happier by following her teaching and example. Her home was ruled by love and kindness and her wishes were readily carried out, because they were always reasonable, true and right. She was very fond of quoting bits of poetry, and the following is one of her favorites which portrays her noble ideals: "Live always true and right, from the cradle to the grave, And never swerve a finger's width from the ways that God us gave." It was in 1884 that the family first heard the sound of the true Gospel from the lips of two Mormon Elders. Having read the scriptures they soon discovered the follies in the teachings of the church to which they had belonged. They welcomed and readily accepted the true Gospel message. They were eager to be baptized, the ordinance taking place secretly before daylight on one of the coldest nights of the Winter, January 23. The snow was deep, and they had to walk a long distance through it to a stream. Here they had to break ice two feet thick to reach the water in which to be immersed. When the news of the baptism got out there was considerable excitement among their friends and relatives. They noticed that the time for sprinkling the youngest son had passed and nothing was being done about it, and they really believed that the poor babe would be damned and lost forever. As is often the case, the mother got most of the blame for this imaginary neglect. Even her nearest friends turned against her, and what was a severe trial, her father's relatives accused her for leading him astray in joining the hated Mormons. But in reply she quoted scripture and preached to them. A few of them finally accepted the Gospel. Many times she was warned not to entertain the Elders, but she had implicit faith that the Lord would protect them from serious trouble, and continued to invite them, for she always felt that all she did for them she did unto the Lord. Many unpleasant situations arose and while persecution was not severe the majority of their former friends now looked upon the Schwendimans as deserters of the faith of the protestant church. About two years after accepting the true Gospel an urgent desire came upon them to emigrate to the Rocky Mountains where holy Temples were being erected and where the family could be sealed together for time and eternity. Disposing of their belongings involved much sacrifice, but by May 1886 all were ready for the journey to America. Again the mother was blamed for this move, which neighbors and relatives thought a most absurd thing, leaving a comfortable home, going into a strange land among strange people. They told her that her little babe would never survive the hard trip, but he did. They crossed the Atlantic in an old steamship which sank on its return trip. The family went to Idaho because of missionary acquaintances, settling in Paris, Bear Lake County, the latter part of June. The country at that time was uninviting compared with Switzerland. The first few years were nothing but trials and hardships. However, the parents were never discouraged. At the first opportunity they went to the Lo- LESSON DEPARTMENT gan Temple and did their temple work and also that of several of their dead. This work brought them great joy. Another blessing and satisfaction to the parents was the fact that their boys were ordained and advanced in the Priesthood as fast as they became old enough, and became active in Church work. Just now as the family were so happy and all was going well, a great sorrow came to them. The father took suddenly ill and passed away on July 31, 1894. Though grief-stricken the mother and her family of six boys decided to carry on as best they could, confident that the Lord would not desert them. In accordance with plans made before the death of the father, the family moved over into the Snake River Valley, where opportunities seemed better, the mother doing her part most nobly. It was a hard task once more to leave a home and friends and go to help pioneer a new part of the country, more so for this grief-stricken mother with a family of boys to raise. Her steadfast faith in the Lord and knowing that He doeth all things well, gave her renewed courage and strength to say, "Thy will be Done." Indeed, she often smiled through tears, and ever looked forward to a brighter day. In the new location she at once joined the Ward Relief Society, did much effective ward teaching and helped to relieve the suffering of the sick and distressed. She always preferred to give service unnoticed and without praise. She lived to see her wish fulfilled that her sons might all be married in the House of the Lord, and be faithful and valiant servants in building up the Church. She also rejoiced to see a Family Organization effected whereby her descendants might be able to do more efficient and successful genealogical and temple work. All this was accomplished through her counsel, encouragement, untiring efforts for which she was admired by all. Grandma Schwendiman, as she was familiarly called in later years by all, was always very optimistic. She looked for the good in everything and in everybody, and was never known to complain. She was a good singer and a lover of music. Her happiest moments were when she was singing the little ones to sleep or humming a tune while working. She was also a lover of outdoors, of flowers, and always had a beautiful flower garden. Her flowers brought joy and brightness to many homes and church services. Thrift, economy and good house management were part of her very nature. One of the many maxims she taught and practiced was "Waste not, want not." Visitors at her home were always urged to stay for a meal, in fact, she usually insisted that they do so. There was always a jar full of cookies ready to treat the children who called to see her. They also enjoyed her songs and interesting stories. A characteristic was her ability to use every moment of time to good advantage. During her life she developed an unusual memory through study, memorizing many choice poems, songs, the Sermon on the Mount and the Parables of the Savior, and also many Proverbs and Psalms. This proved to be a most valuable blessing to her during the last four years of her life, because her eyesight failed her so she was unable to read and because of an injury by falling, 612 she was unable to walk. But she was still happy, being able to entertain herself by reciting the things she had learned and by telling them to her visitors who always loved to hear them. Her six sons often visited her and sang together the good old songs she loved so well. Also her grandchildren loved to sing and play for her, and in turn she would thrill them all with her choice selections. She lived just 49 years after she joined the Church, and her testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in all that time never wavered. Her descendants now number 6 sons, 34 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren, and so far, have 24 years of foreign missionary work to their credit besides filling numerous responsible positions at home. Among them are stake officers, bishops and counselors, choir leaders, genealogical and auxiliary officers, teachers and missionaries. An extraordinary and faith-promoting incident occurred which her son relates as follows: "A loving friend and neighbor and faithful sister in the Church, who had passed away a few years previously, appeared to mother one quiet night, sat on the side of the bed and conversed with her; and among many other things said that she would call back for her in two weeks. Mother spoke of this visit and conversation repeatedly, looked forward and longed for the time to come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE because she felt that her time here was finished, and she knew there was a place awaiting her on the other side where she might again labor and accomplish good. In exactly two weeks from that hour, the early morning of January 24, 1933, at Sugar City, Idaho, without suffering, she passed silently away into a peaceful slumber in her 88th year."
12. Questions for Discussion
13. Why was it easy to convert Sister Schwendiman to Mormonism?
14. Give reasons for believing she had a strong faith in God.
15. Give reasons for believing she was self-reliant. Why was this quality helpful to her?
16. What were her chief qualities? Give reasons for your answer.
17. Why did people like her? Answer fully.
18. State why she was an excellent mother.
19. Give reasons for the statement "She was blest in her descendants."
20. She wanted to live alone in her old age. Why?
21. She believed in the "universality of the plan of salvation." How did she show this?
22. She lived a very successful life. State reasons for believing it.
23. She was a noble woman. Give reasons.
24. Child Guidance Lesson III
25. CHILDREN'S LIES
INACCURATE statements are often made by children because their original observations are not correct. This type of misstatement is, of course, innocent and should never be called lying. The child, as LESSON DEPARTMENT his mental ability grows, should be helped in a kindly way to observe more accurately. Children should be taught early the usefulness of being able to see and remember things as they are?not as they would like them to be. Just as the "wish is often the mother of the thought," so do wishes influence a person in what he sees and what he cares to remember. Much confusion and unpleasantness arise among people from their inability to see and remember things as they are rather than as they interpret them emotionally or in terms of their biases and prejudices. Do we not all see many domestic arguments arise from this very fault which keeps us from seeing and remembering events as other people do? Far more serious than inaccurate observation and memory is the willful warping of the truth. A variety of motives may underly this type of misbehavior. First, there is the fantastic lie which may be conscious to the child, although it frequently arises simply from his unconscious confusion between reality and his imaginary world. Perfectly preposterous tales are often told by children about their great acts of daring, conquest, or nobility. We might think of such tales as being an expression of a "will to power" that is beginning to arise in the child at a stage of development at which the power itself is not yet present. When the child lacks true distinction among his playmates, he may assume superiority in his exaggerated statements about what he has done. This gratifies the desire for superiority when true superiority is not within his reach. Care is taken in telling his tales, that the listeners have little chance to check up on his inaccuracy; and often the poor comprehension of the children who listen permits 613 the most extreme type of false statements. Bragging becomes particularly common during puberty and early adolescence, although it is frequently found in younger children. We have all heard children carry on conversations similar to this:? Eddie: "We've got the mumps down at our house and you oughta' see Jane." Billy: "Well that's nothing. We've had them too and we've had the measles and whooping cough besides." Any mark of distinction, even the "mumps," may be the starting point for bragging in small children; but during adolescence bragging usually expresses wishes and ambitions for the future. As the individual grows into full-fledged adulthood emotionally and socially, bragging is usually eliminated or so carefully worded that it can scarcely be detected. The achievement of attainable goals and the discarding of impossible ones eliminates to a large extent the need for bragging as a form of rivalry in adults. Bragging may persist, however, as may other types of exaggeration and fanciful misstatements. Often in adults these habits persist at great disadvantage to the person, particularly bragging because it thrives on deflating the ego of the listener, and this is always unpleasant to him. Fantasy, day-dreaming and uncontrolled imagination may persist in a child and contribute to his living in a world detached from reality, so common in people of artistic temperament. Frequently this detachment from reality leads to failure in practical situations and should be discouraged in the average child. Of more serious significance than the types heretofore discussed is the protective or defensive lie because it is generally associated with other 614 kinds of misconduct. The motivation is vastly different from that in the previous types of misstatements. Parents should take special care not to teach their children early in life that lying pays, and telling the truth "gets a licking." When a child has stolen something, confesses and is promptly whipped, truth-telling is punished, not stealing. The effect of punishment, as a previous lesson brought out, tends to fall on the most immediate circumstance surrounding the punishment. Frequently, parents put a child through "third degree" to make him confess a truth he has evaded or withheld, and then they promptly thrash him. Lies would seldom be told if parents could "keep in" with their children and understand their motives. See what the child's needs are and help him to find the right ways of satisfying them. If a child accidentally breaks something, don't punish him so severely that next time he will hide the pieces and deny knowing anything about it. Teach him to be careful, but for a broken vase don't break his character by making him lie about it. The worst aspect of defensive lies is that they indicate that the parent has lost the confidence of the child. Some defensive lies are merely protections against invasions of a child's privacy. Parents should not be too "prying" into all that their children do. A child can make mistakes, be justly sorry and learn the lesson without the mother's asking for a review of the details of the whole unpleasant circumstance. If the need of the child in telling fantastic lies is to inflate or expand his ego, then the need which leads to defensive lies is the protection of the ego against deflation or letting down. They are aimed at saving one's face. Malicious lies are generated by the most unsocial of all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE motives. These lies are aimed at the destruction of another person and are perhaps the most common and persistent form in adults. Exaggeration of the faults of other people, telling?with additions?tales about the misconduct of our neighbors (usually competitors); repeating remarks, made innocently by one, to another person in a different setting so as to arouse animosity toward the first person?are samples of malicious lies. They range all the way from slight perversions of truth to outright manufacture of scandal. Malicious lies are serious because they are all motivated by a desire, often concealed even to the person telling them, to destroy or harm someone else. We usually find this kind of lying associated with other social faults such as pride, selfishness, jealousy, and bitter rivalry. When even an adult is a victim of one of these emotional states, the truth literally betrays his eyes, and if he wants to know and speak only the truth he sometimes cannot. In children, malicious lies indicate that the child needs to be taught to regard the rights of others to live and be happy. Teach the child how much more happiness he can gain through contributing to the happiness of others than in detracting from it. Teach cooperative effort, not rivalry; friendliness, not antagonism. Proper emotional satisfaction is essential to prevent the child from growing bitter. Neglected children have been found to be more deceitful in almost every respect than normal children are. Malicious lies thrive in hate-ridden homes, where rivalry and selfishness are found and where punishment is harsh and unjust, where praise for good deeds never passes over the dinner table. Mothers should guard their tongues when children are present. Little do they think that maligning the character of a neighbor or relative. May lead the child who listens to do likewise to his playmates or his competitors in the home. Truth telling is necessary among old and young people because it keeps one's word good. Lies seem convenient and useful to the child, but the price is that lying destroys the communicating power of his language. He may want someone to believe him some time and they will not, even though he may be telling the truth. We discount a person's word accordingly as we learn how untruthful he is. Mark Twain made a great reputation for his fantastic lies. His mother replied when asked if she took any stock in his astonishing tales of adventure, "Oh, yes, I know his average. I discount him ninety per cent. The rest is pure gold." Parents can hardly expect their children to never pervert the truth when they themselves tell all manner of "white lies" in the presence of the children. Mothers sometimes keep the fathers from knowing all they do, and the fathers are equally guilty. Warnings to children not to tell the other parent certain things is a vicious influence which can do nothing but promote evasiveness and untrustworthiness in the children. In the opposite direction, there is another danger parents should guard against; that is making a child overconscientious about the "letter" of truth with no respect to the "spirit." Children need not tell everyone they meet all that is asked of them, nor should they be taught that strict accuracy of statement is always the truth. Truth depends upon conveying the right impression, not in 615 simply saying the right words. A child attempts her first piano demonstration in public. The music is obviously poor as music. A tactless older sister says, "It didn't sound much like music to me. You had better practice a while before you make a fool of yourself again." Perhaps the younger one did feel like a "fool," and the older sister may have made accurate observations on the quality of the music; but she did not tell the truth because she gave the child the wrong impression, that is, that her earnest effort and pluck were not worthy of praise. Circumstances force well-behaved children to sometimes deviate from the "letter" of truth. If the child is naturally very conscientious, too much emphasis on strict literalness of statement may cause great distress when the "letter" cannot be followed. Some children can easily be made too conscientious about most everything, and great care should be taken in teaching such a child in order to avoid making him feel sinful, even if he should tell a real lie.
Problems for Discussion
Describe and illustrate from your experience three distinct kinds of lies. Point out what motive underlies each.
What is usually wrong with the home situation of a child who tells malicious or destructive lies?
What danger can you see in the persistence of fantastic lies beyond early adolescent years?
Point out some disciplinary errors parents make which force children to lie? Indicate ways these errors can be corrected.
How can you reconcile tactfulness with truthfulness?
