An Interesting Shut In By Annaleone Davis Patton
Time: Present. Place: Living room in Rachel Davis' home. Characters: Rachel Davis—Grandma, 94 years of age; Rebecca Holmes—Caller, Sunshine Committee; Sarah Ann Adams—Caller, Sunshine Committee; Lucy Graham—Rachel's friend, a few years younger than grandma.
Scene: As curtain goes up grandma is seated in an old-fashioned rocker, a large picture book on her lap. Near is a table with books, a new quilt top, neatly folded, a small bowl of pansies, a glass of water, a ball of carpet rags. A light knock is heard on street door, at left.
Grandma: Come. (Two women enter, members of the Sunshine Committee. Grandma places hand over eyes and looks closely at visitors, who advance smilingly, and hands extended in greeting.)
Rebecca: Good afternoon, Grandma.
Sarah: How are you, Grandma?
Grandma: Well, well, now this is lovely. How do you do? Sairy Ann and Becky. I was hoping you would call today. I have finished my picture book for the Primary Hospital and Sophie made jelly this morning. She was wishing she had a way to send some to Lizzie Walton. They say Lizzie has two very pretty babies. I always did like twins. Have you seen them yet?
Rebecca: Yes, Elizabeth was at fast meeting Sunday and had them blessed. They are identically alike. Two girls born on the 17th of March. They should be good Relief Society workers.
Sarah Ann: Sister Walton told us they are direct descendants of Martha Knight, one of the charter members of the Relief Society.
Grandma: Aunt Marthy was one of the original eighteen members. I suppose if it hadn't been for me, my mother would have been a charter member also; but times were troublesome and hard for the faithful saints of those days. It's no wonder babies had a way of coming before folks were ready for them.
Rebecca: (Laughing.) Then you were almost an "original" Relief Society member yourself, Grandma?
Grandma: I was born at Nauvoo on March 12, 1842. I was my mother's youngest, and the only one of five children to reach the Valleys of the Mountains. She was a widow so she and I were very companionable. She had a remarkable memory, often wrote for the "Woman's Exponent." Her right hand was twisted from a felon she had lanced when they were at Winter Quarters so it was difficult for her to write. I wrote the articles for her. I did not know shorthand or typing—they weren't even invented yet. I wrote a fairly good hand. Sister Wells said it was plain and easy to read. Mother's unusual memory for detail, her description, and diction so clear made it almost seem that I had experienced the actual events she told of.
Sarah Ann: Then your mother knew the sisters that met with the Prophet and Elders Willard Richards, and John Taylor to organize the first Relief Society.
Grandma: Oh, yes, mother said that although Nauvoo was a thriving, clean, new, beautiful city, and 582 soon became the largest city in the state of Illinois, there were many poor people there because in the mobbing many families had lost all worldly effects. Many homes were broken by the death of a father who had been killed by the mob. Then poor converts were constantly streaming in from the Mission field. The women were eager to help but from time to time cases of poverty, sickness, want, homesickness, and apostasy were discovered. The sisters felt if they were organized much needless suffering could be eliminated. They heard of a group of women who had banded together to help fugitive slaves and had accomplished much good. There were interest groups in Nauvoo—just as there are interest groups anywhere. The Heber Kimballs, and the John Taylors had pianos; those that loved to sing met there for "singing meeting." There were also "reading meetings," "sewing meetings," "candle makin' meetings," and all kinds of meetings. So why not meetings to relieve distress, or help on the temple whose walls were rising higher each day. The women could serve hot meals to the men that donated their time, weave and mend for their families. Elvira Coles, who became the first treasurer of the Relief Society, bent her arm at the elbow and said, "I can carry water for the masons, I'm so strong." Everyone laughed. It was refreshing to hear some boast of health. There had been so much sickness.
Sarah Ann: Conditions must have been terrible. Why the other night little Jean was preparing a paper for junior genealogical meeting and she read how the saints at Nauvoo suffered from cholera and winter fever. Rebecca: Naturally the people's resistance to disease was lowered. Just think, in twelve short years they had been driven from Palmyra, New York to Kirtland, Ohio; from Kirtland, Ohio, to Jackson County, Missouri, and from Jackson County back into Illinois. And in three years the city had become the largest and most beautiful city in the state. Think of it! That much moving and persecution in twelve short years.
Grandma: Yet Nauvoo was a crisp, busy, new town just three years old. There were stores, homes, meeting houses, and a temple with walls rising higher each day; besides that they owned a steamboat on the Mississippi. The Prophet's boat was called "The Maid of Iowa." The fact that women could become organized in that day has always been a marvel to me. Women could not enter the colleges. A married woman had no legal status; she could not hold property, she could not use her own earning without the consent of her husband; she could not act as guardian and control the person or property of her children; she could not under any circumstance secure a divorce.
Sarah Ann: The Prophet just called the women together and organized them, didn't he?
Grandma: No, not exactly that. The women had felt the need of organization to accomplish results they desired, both spiritual and temporal, so they met in Aunt Sairy Kimball's parlor one afternoon and discussed plans for formulating such an organization. Eliza R. Snow wrote a set of by-laws that encompassed the ideals and objectives of the group. Later they submitted these by-laws to the Prophet for counsel and approval. Shortly afterward he called together eighteen of the leading women of Nauvoo—let's see now, there was: Emma Smith, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phoebe Ann Hawkes, Elizabeth Jones, Sophia Packard, Philinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Leonora Taylor, Bathsheba Smith, Phoebe Wheeler, Elvira Coles, Margaret Cook, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson and Sophia Marks, They met in the Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842. The Prophet received them kindly, told them he had been considering for some time organizing the women. His plan for the organization was more comprehensive and far greater than the sisters had even imagined. Those present realized that he was inspired of God to instruct them as he did. They opened the meeting by singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." John Taylor offered the opening prayer. Emma Smith was chosen president. Emma was a queenly woman, stately, and dignified, her soft dark hair parted in the middle. She wore a lavender dress, lavender was her favorite color, and spotless white apron. She was a Hale before she married, one of the Pennsylvania Hales. She was not at all visionary, very sympathetic and fair—in every way a leader.
Sarah Ann: Sarah M. Cleveland was first counselor, wasn't she?
Grandma: Yes, Sister Cleveland was the first counselor. She lived right across the street from the Prophet. She and Emma Smith were like sisters. When the Saints were driven out of Missouri in the spring of 1839, Emma Smith and her children were cared for and given shelter by the Clevelands until Joseph was released from prison. After coming to Nauvoo the Prophet wrote to the Clevelands saying he had selected them a lot near him and Emma. Sarah Cleveland was practical, ambitious, quick, and kind.
Rebecca: Elizabeth Ann Whitney was second counselor?
Grandma: Yes. She was older than either Sister Emma or Sister Kimball; more talkative and eager to show her friendliness. She came to Ohio from New England when a young girl. Here she met Newel K. Whitney, a wealthy young trader of the Great Lakes region whom she later married. Newel and Elizabeth Ann Whitney were living in Kirtland when the Prophet Joseph first came to that place. As the Prophet stepped from the sleigh, he extended his hand and said, "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man." Brother Whitney recognized the Prophet from a dream he had had of him. Newel K. Whitney had an experience similar to Captain John Smith. An Indian girl named Modlena saved Brother Whitney's life when he was captured by the Indians. The Whitneys named their daughter Modlena for this heroine. Sister Whitney was always proud of the fact that she was the first to entertain Brother Joseph when he came to Kirtland. She was a very pretty woman, had a beautiful voice. She and Zina Huntington and the Partridge girls were the great singers of those days and sang at the early Relief Society meetings. Then there was Eliza R. Snow the first secretary. She was a vivid, dark-eyed, sensitive woman with a spiritual face. She knew the hearts of people. None other had such a gift of beautiful, lucid literary expression. Her verse was her sermon and song. No wonder she became poet laureate of the Church. Leonora Taylor, wife of John Taylor was one of the most beautiful women of Nauvoo. She was the daughter of Captain Cannon of the Isle of Man. She and Brother Taylor embraced the Gospel in Canada and moved to Kirtland. Then there was Sophia Packard; she had been Sophia Bundy before she married. She was one of the Massachusetts Bundys, a very quiet woman, rather inclined to boast of her husband's accomplishments than her own. Brother Packard walked fifteen thousand miles in his missionary labors. Philinda Merrick was a widow. Her husband was killed in Missouri. Brigham Young had helped her to move to Nauvoo. She often told of the first meeting of the Relief Society and how Emma Smith had urged the women present to give her their sewing and to be prompt with their payments, reminding them "Sister Merrick is a widow." "We must help the widows." In fact, charity was the theme of that meeting. That very day was found an open Bible on the pulpit with this verse written on a small piece of paper: "O, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children, Amen. So Mote it be.
Grandma: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With the Sword and word of truth defend thou them, So Mote it be." A charity donation was taken at the first meeting. The Prophet gave a $5.00 gold piece, saying, "Hereafter, what I do for charity, I shall give through this society." He impressed upon them the meaning of their name—the Relief Society. The first order of business after officers were selected was choosing a name. John Taylor suggested the Nauvoo Benevolent Society.
Sarah Ann: Why didn't they take that name?
Grandma: It didn't seem to have a meaning for their work. Sarah Cleveland suggested the name, Nauvoo Female Relief Society, which name was chosen, The Prophet instructed them to conduct their meetings according to Parliamentary rules, to admit members by vote only; to be merciful one to another; to be pure in heart; to keep confidences sacred. He begged them to care for the sick, the poor, the unfortunate, and the downcast. He said, "This society should not only relieve the poor but it should save souls." "If you live up to your privileges the angels can not be restrained from being your associates. I now turn the key for you in the name of God and this society shall rejoice. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. If you would that God have mercy on you, have mercy one upon another."
Sarah Ann: The Society grew quite rapidly, didn't it? (A bell rings outside. Enter Mrs. Lucy Graham, carrying a small work bag. Comes and shakes hands with Grandma Davis and the two younger women.)
Sister Graham: How are you, Rachel?
Grandma: Better than well—and you, Lucy?
Sister Graham: So well, I certainly enjoy riding and I am so spoiled by my grandchildren, I seldom stay home any more. If Burt gets his aviator's license I'm going up some Saturday afternoon. See if I don't. (All laugh.)
Rebecca: You are braver than I am.
Sarah Ann: We have been reliving the organization of the Relief Society this afternoon. We were just thinking how wonderful it was that the organization could have come forth in its completeness at the time it did.
Sister Davis: Ask Aunt Lucy. She is a veritable historic fountain when it comes to Church Auxiliary organizations.
Aunt Lucy: I should be. I had the privilege of working with Sister Eliza Snow.
Sarah Ann: I was asking how rapidly the Relief Society grew?
Aunt Lucy: It started with eighteen charter members. During the first year the membership grew to 1,179. Once two hundred women joined in one day. They held eighteen meetings that first year, sixteen meetings were held the second year. The enrollment had grown to 2,341. The last meeting was held March 16, 1844. The unsettled conditions, the martyrdom, and the apparent exodus made it necessary to suspend activities as a group although separated into different companies they carried the spirit of their work through the journey over the prairies, plains and mountains, and administered to the sick along the way at Sugar Creek, Garden Grove, Mt. Pisgah and Winter Quarters and in the Pioneer settlements. The organization had prepared them to be obedient, the lack of which caused so many emigrants on the emigrant trail to fare illy in the move to the West.
Rebecca: I never before valued the Relief Society, or knew its relationship to the development of Pioneer life.
Grandma: In 1854, about ten years after the organization, a group met in the old Social Hall and held a meeting. This group was the forerunner of ward organizations. Things got started once more, in an orderly fashion.
Aunt Lucy: When Johnston's army came and the body of the Church moved south, meetings were suspended again for several years. In 1866 President Young recommended the organization of Relief Societies in all wards and branches of the Church. He chose Eliza R. Snow as President of the Latter-day Saints Women's organizations.
Grandma: The Woman's Exponent was first issued in 1872 and Sister Eliza is mentioned in that issue as the president of the entire Female Relief Societies in the Church. After 1866 the growth was rapid and constant, and the wards were soon organized into stakes. The first one being the Union of the Relief Societies of Weber County.
Aunt Lucy: Today there are more than 1700 ward organizations, 118 stakes and 35 missions, with a general board of twenty-three members, and a membership of over 73,000. They have been leaders in all great social and reform movements, and kept up their benevolent work as well.
Grandma: Aside from the charity work they were early affiliated with the National Women's council, the Suffrage and the Temperance movement, engaged in the silk industry, and the storing of wheat, against drought or famine. For forty-two years they maintained this wheat fund. During the World War when the United States called upon them for wheat the Relief Society had 200,000 bushels to turn over to the officials in Washington, D. C. The interest from this money is spent for public health.
Rebecca: Well, did the wheat just lie idle all those years till the war came?
Aunt Lucy: O, my, no. They loaned it out for seed to poor people, gave wheat where crops had failed, once sent a carload of wheat to famine sufferers in China. At the time of the San Francisco earthquake and fire, a carload was sent to San Francisco.
Sarah Ann: The Relief Society is the only church auxiliary that is legally incorporated, isn't it?
Aunt Lucy: That does not change its status as a church auxiliary. That was necessary because of its holdings.
Rebecca: I appreciate the charity work, hospital work, wheat fund, silk industry and affiliating with the National Women's council, but to my mind the most comprehensive thing is its program of adult education—its theology, literature, sociology, art and music, closely approaches a university course.
Grandma: The Relief Society is the Alma Mater of many a Mormon woman. When she can no longer go out to the meeting the visiting teacher and sunshine committee bring it to her.
Aunt Lucy: I never knew how lovely the Proverbs were until the visiting teachers gave their topics this winter.
Grandma: The teachers were so well prepared, I just looked forward to their calls.
Rebecca: We must go now. I fear we have stayed too long.
Aunt Lucy: Well, it was a two-in-one visit anyway.
Sarah Ann: It's been a most profitable visit to me. Frank is driving to Washington, D. C., this summer. I shall stop in Illinois and see the monument erected on the spot where the Relief Society was organized. I have a better understanding of its history because of this visit (All shake hands, preparatory to leaving.)
Rebecca: (Shaking hands with Grandma.) Be sure to tune in for the "Singing Mothers," Sunday afternoon. Bessie has a solo. (Sarah and Rebecca leave by the street door, and call back, "goodby") (Grandma takes quilt top from table at her left.)
Lucy: Rachel, we don't need to worry about the future of the Relief Society for the next ninety-four years, as long as Becky Holmes and Sarah Ann Adams are in the harness.
Grandma: There's so much of vital interest to young mothers. It would be unfortunate if they were not interested. Say, Lucy, I'm goin' to give this quilt to Sister Philpott for Libby Ricks.
Aunt Lucy: That's right. The best way to encourage Libby to keep house is to give her something to do it with, even if she does live in an auto camp. That's a pretty quilt, Rachel. (Curtain falls as Aunt Lucy and Grandma are discussing designs for quilting.)