Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER — The Lord's command, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" is a blessing, not a punishment. Mrs. ALICE SALOMON, sociologist and foremost woman of Germany, has been expelled from her native land because of Jewish ancestry though she is a devout Christian. Dr. Salomon, prominently associated with the International Council of Women, was greatly admired by the American women. RS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, general president of the Relief Society, made an extended and official visit to the Hawaiian Islands this summer. Dr. ARABELLA REYNOLDS died, recently, at the ripe age of 97. She was one of the very few women of the Civil War with a commission. She received the rank of Major, for her heroism at the battle of Shilo. MARIA ELETTRA ELENA, age 7, daughter of Marconi, inventor of wireless telegraphy, is heiress to her father's fortune estimated at $25,000,000. NATALIE PIXTON, 18, has been appointed personnel officer of the Army Amateur Radio System for Utah. She is the youngest operator in the Ninth Corps Area. MARGARET M. HANNA has recently been appointed U. S. Consul at Geneva. The State Department is gradually recognizing the service of women. ALICE E. ROWE, honored and beloved school teacher in Utah, for 46 years, died last July. DR. MARY E. WOOLLEY has retired from the presidency of Mt. Holyoke College after a period of 37 years. She has plans for broader activity in other fields and says, "Why shouldn't one start life at 74 as well as 40?" ELEANOR PATTERSON, long-time editor of the ""Washington Herald," a Hearst paper, has now leased both the "Herald" and the "Times" and proposes to run them independently. She is certainly a courageous woman. MARY JONES CLAWSON, who died last July, was a woman of many graces. She was patriotic, literary and socially inclined—a true and talented daughter of the pioneers. Mrs. EARLINE WHITE, national president of the Business and Professional Woman's League, is sponsoring, through her organization, legislation for strict equality for women, especially in regard to hours-and-wage laws for women workers.: FRANCIS PARKINSON KEYES, newspaper correspondent and author in her new book "Washington Kaleidoscope" is very frank in her description of Washington people, officially and socially. Nevertheless the book has a fascinating expectancy and keeps one wondering who will be the next target for her brilliant shots.