Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
WINNEMUCCA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CALIFORNIA MISSION
California Mission
DELIGHTFUL news comes in from the branches of the California Mission. Annual Day, March 17, was appropriately celebrated in the organizations of this extensive Mission. The Winnemucca Branch celebration included a beautiful pageant as one of the features of a delightful program. The Elko Branch Relief Society reports a very fine spirit in the work of the organization. It reflects the missionary spirit and the friendliness of Relief Society mingling with other groups. The literature lessons have been particularly interesting and have attracted many women not of the faith. The fine lessons carried in the Magazine are a great element in increasing the subscriptions. During the year there have been many events which have given a fine opportunity for missionary work. Among these was the anniversary celebration where a fine program was presented in which the activities and educational advantages of Relief Society were stressed, and the delightful event was concluded with a luncheon served to more than eighty people.
Western States Mission
AMONG the Mission reorganizations of last Spring is that of the Western States Mission. We cannot do justice to the splendid activities of Relief Society under the very capable leadership of Sister Winnifred B. Daynes. The monthly digest for May, 1937, of the Western States Mission is dedicated to President and Sister Daynes. The NOTES FROM THE FIELD 591 ALAMOSA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OF WESTERN STATES MISSION. Keynote of the digest is that "Friendship is the creation of the divine, it stirs our emotions, stimulates our heart strings, promotes loftiness of ideals, and radiates an atmosphere of true nobility." Under the leadership of President and Sister Daynes, a very gratifying increase in all things in the mission is shown—the number of baptisms, the creation of new organizations, and the Relief Society is especially fortunate in the splendid work done within its organizations. Sister Daynes has devoted so much of her rich talent and time to furthering the wonderful work. As the digest says: "The lives of the Saints and investigators of the Church have been brought to a fuller knowledge and appreciation of the Gospel."
Canadian Mission
FROM our Canadian Mission comes a very delightful report of the entire year's work, showing the close touch established by Sister Alice R. Rich with the Relief Society organizations of this Mission. Some of the phases of Relief Society work, viz., that of Work and Business, which have been difficult in the past to put over, has received special attention during this year, and the women have shown great interest in the program of activities. The collecting of used clothing and its renovation and the making of new articles for families in need, has been one accomplishment. Many bazaars were held and luncheons served adding greatly to funds for the needs of the organization. The program of self-help as suggested through the Relief Society is particularly valuable to many of the mothers with little children who have not been taught how to sew, and it is a very fine piece of work to teach these sisters to do their sewing and go far toward helping themselves. The educational program has been very popular with the sisters. The Relief Society lessons are a wonderful aid in broadening the vision and strengthening the women to do their part. There have been some group conventions held, at which time some of the messages from the General Conference have been put over, and these have been a great inspiration to the sisters, for "they are at heart true Latter-day Saints and are making heroic efforts to live up to the traditions of the Gospel." Sister Rich states the Relief Society Magazine is a great aid, as is the Bulletin, also, in helping to accomplish the educational work. In Toronto in all. The educational and practical phases of Relief Society work the social spirit is not forgotten, and we feel that some very excellent missionary work is done through this medium.
Northern States Mission
FROM the Northern States Mission in May came a beautiful Bulletin with the cover design a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture of Sister Augusta W. Grant, and the following lovely message from Sister Grant we feel every Relief Society sister should read: "I am happy to send a greeting to the Relief Society sisters of the Northern States Mission. Among our several Church auxiliary organizations, there is none in my opinion more important in its scope or more beneficial in its results, both to its members and those whose lives it touches beyond the organization than the Relief Society. "Worthwhile as your organization has been ever since its inception, there was never a time when it was more needed than now. May you all be inspired to do your part in the great security program of our Church. The eyes of the world are upon us, but with such workers as are to be found in the Relief Society we will not fail. And from the lives of service which you live may joy, and peace come to you all. Sincerely your sister, Augusta W. Grant." (Wife of President Heber J. Grant.) President May G. Hinckley of the Mission is to be congratulated on the very able manner in which she is carrying on the Relief Society work. A summary of the Bulletin indicates a fine suggestive program for summer-time activities and a fine account of the Daughters' Day Celebration, not forgetting the message of Relief Society to all its member organizations to do fitting honor to the Constitution of the United States. Loyalty to this great country of ours is one of the strong appeals that can be made to our women, and a feeling of gratitude for our great blessings, encouraged through this study. "There is a very fine appeal to the Magazine Agents, and a portion of the space in the Bulletin is given to a review of the General Relief Society Conference held in NOTES FROM THE FIELD Salt Lake City April 2 and 3 of this year. Altogether the Bulletin is a most inspirational message to the sisters and we feel does much to stimulate them to rise to all the opportunities offered through Relief Society.
Eastern States Mission
FROM Sister Grace S. Colton, of the Eastern States Mission comes a very beautiful report of the many activities of Relief Society. To quote Sister Colton: "Reports from the Mission Relief Societies of this Mission coming in to me have certainly made me rejoice. This year these organizations have accomplished more than any previous year since I have been working with them. They seem now to be eager to have their organization one of the best." An interesting account in detail of the educational program, including the Scripture reading Project is reported. Daughters' Day met with a very enthusiastic response in Washington, D. C. We feel that the following, which was furnished by Sister Colton, is so concrete and clear a demonstration of the way this beautiful custom may be put into our organization, that we publish the account of it. The regular program was entirely carried out by the daughters. "The literary lesson for April of the Washington Branch of the Relief Society, was held in the auditorium of the L. D. S. Chapel, and 593 was a continuation of the fascinating study of Carl Sandburg's 'Abraham Lincoln.' "Introducing Mothers' and Daughters' Day, Mrs. Vera S. King read a delightful poem, written by Ann Jarvis, entitled 'Parents.' "Gladys Stewart Bennion had charge of the program. Eight young daughters of Relief Society members participated in presenting a charmingly unique resume of the Life of Lincoln; material selected from Mrs. Bennion's thesis: "The Lincoln Motif in Modern Literature.' "Marjorie Willey discussed 'Lincoln the Man,' concluding with an original copy of Edwin Markham's 'Lincoln the Commoner.' Ruth Hales touched delightfully upon Lincoln's humor; Renee Overlade took the subject: 'Lincoln and Depression,' while Lucy Beth Cardon emphasized his oratory and qualities that made Lincoln an artist. Barbara Bennion used Lincoln's quotations as a means of interpreting his philosophy, religion and statesmanship. Evelyn Iverson gave an excellent reading of Mrs. Bennion's story of Lincoln entitled: 'A Stranger at the Cross Roads.' This story suggests what is meant by the Lincoln Motif in Literature. "The musical numbers were 'America the Beautiful,' 'Lincoln,' by Marian Mitchell, from a volume of Churchill gems, and 'America'."
 
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Elise B. Alder Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Editor Donna Durrant Sorensen - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Manager Vivian R. McConkie - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Assistant Manager
Leda T. Tensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman