The Boy and the Cigarette: A radio talk given over KSL, May 4, 1937, by Francis W. Kirkham, former Utah State Director of Vocational Education, and recently Director of the National Child Welfare Association of New York.
I OFTEN pick up boys on the highway. "You have a fine clean face and an intelligent look," I said to the young man who entered my car, "I am sure you are a high school graduate and returning home to enter college." "You are right," he said, "I graduated from High School when I was 17. My father is dead and I work to help support the family. I want to go to the Brigham Young University this year, if possible." We chatted together but finally I said, "I suppose you did not use cigarettes while you were in high school?" "You are right," was the reply, "but I have been smoking some since." I then said to him, "I sometimes drink soda water and eat candy because these have a pleasant taste to me and satisfy my thirst and normal appetite for sweets. I suppose the cigarette tastes good to you?" "No they don't taste good. I detested the first one I used. A cigarette has no taste, it is only a habit." "Probably they benefit you in some way, add to your health or vigor." "Naw!" he replied, "They harm me, I know that." "Well, probably you would rather have cigarettes than other things you could buy for yourself with the same money?" "Wrong again, I prefer to go to movies, buy clothes, take my, girl to a party and many other things." "Probably, then, you are spending your money for cigarettes out of sympathy, to help the manufacturer." "You are surely digging it into me," he replied. "So this is the situation, you don't like them, they harm you, you would rather have other things for yourself for the money you spend for them and the fellow who makes cigarettes does not need your money. That looks like dumbell work," and he agreed. Then I said, "Don't smoke again until you smoke with me." I stopped for another lad at another time of about the same age to give him a ride. He was saturated with cigarette odor. "Please take the back seat" I asked him, "The odor you carry is very offensive to me." He seemed chagrined. "What is wrong," he asked timidly. "My boy, you are a slave to the cigarette. You have so much nicotine in you now that forever you will first buy cigarettes before you buy food or clothes. Your educational future is blank. You are nervous and irritable. Your chances to marry the girl of your choice is very poor. "But I can stop when I want to," he hastened to say. "No not now? probably a year or two ago, you could." "If you had not smoked before you were twenty-one, possibly, but, now, never, you are a slave. The cigarette commands you and you obey, for he whips you until you do." Before he left me, he said he would quit. I gave him my address and said to him, "As an acknowledgment of my kindness in giving you this ride, write me a letter when you have not smoked for two months. He did not send the letter. THE BOY AND THE CIGARETTE Another boy rode with me on his way to his home in Midvale. There was no odor of tobacco with him. He was alert, active and was making a fine record in High School. "You do not smoke," I said to him. "That is correct," he replied. Last year several hundred Utah boys from L. D. S. Scout Troops were at Rochester, New York. They called at the great Eastman Kodak factory. While assembled in a room preparatory to the visit, the person in charge of the tour through the factory, addressed them as follows: "Boys, this is a great factory with thousands of people employed. The hazard of fire is great, we shall, therefore, ask you to leave your cigarettes and matches on the tables in this room until you return." 617 There was a deep silence and pause. No one advanced toward the table. The guide repeated his message, "Boys, I am in real earnest. We must insist that you leave your matches and cigarettes in this room while you are in the factory." Then a boy answered, "We are Boy Scouts from Utah. We do not smoke." That is the reason no one advanced toward the tables. The account of this incident spread throughout the factory and the city. A father and his son of ten years, were companions, chums, playing, riding together. One evening at the fireside, the boy said as he watched "his daddy," "Daddy when will I be old enough to smoke?" A long pause and this answer?"When you see your daddy smoke again." 36 South State It's a joy to get up in a home heated with NATURAL GAS The extra half-hour's sleep?with no furnace to start?gives you more pep and energy for the day's work. The bathroom is warm for your shave and shower; the bedroom is warm for dressing; the kitchen and dining room are warm for breakfast?all without GAS HEAT means a WARM HOME morning, noon and night! ." Install it NOW! Convenient Terms