Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? BOOKS Take TIME To READ
"Oh what is so fine as a cozy nook, With a cushioned chair and a friendly book? —Wordsworth.
NO greater inheritance has come to humanity through the ages, than the gift of books. Very early in the life of the race man sought some means of recording his knowledge and experience. Depending on the spoken word, he could reach only those persons with whom he came in direct contact; but when he could record his thoughts on tablet or scroll or metal plate, the inscription could be passed on to others. Best of all, it could be preserved, not only for his children, but for descendants of future generations. Knowledge, experience, the revealed Word of God could be made permanent. The first records were wrought with much effort, with long hours of painstaking care. There were few of them and they were very precious. Even in Luther's day, he "longed for the time when a Bible would be chained in every church." Man's vaguest dreams did not vision the production of such a wealth of books as are provided today. The invention of printing has revolutionized the world of thought. For those who were fortunate enough to be able to read, the ancient problem was to secure a book. Today, with free public schools and free public libraries,
By Lella Marler Hoggan
the problem is how to choose wisely the books to be read from among the vast number that continually flood the market.
GIFTED minds, through the power of the printed page, may transport us to the ends of the earth. With them we may sail the seven seas to every tropic and clime, from the frozen fastnesses of the north land to the dark forests of the torrid zone. We may learn the lore of the jungle from Kipling's Mowgli, the little brown boy who brothered with the wolf pack. Beebe will take us into the depths of the sea and show us the wonders of life that inhabit the ocean floor. We may stand with Edwin Markham on the top of the world and catch his inspiration of divine beauty. We may weep with Lincoln over the death of beautiful Ann Rutledge. We may laugh with Huckleberry Finn as he paddles up the Mississippi River in time to attend his own funeral. We may suffer, we may pray, we may rejoice, with the wise and the good whose living presence greets us from the pages of great books. The soul of man is mirrored in his written word. If his vision is beautiful and true, his message one of courage and high hope, it reveals itself in his writing. There are as many types of books as there are types of authors. The printed page is sometimes used 574 to promote selfish purposes, to commercialize fraud, to deceive, to pollute the soul of man, as well as to portray truth and beauty. There are writers who glorify the common experiences of every day, who vision the ideal in the real, who lift us to the stars. Then there are the iconoclasts, the idol breakers, who delight in disclosing every flaw in human nature, who wish to materialize the ideal, and substitute sophistry for sentiment. With the increasing number of free hours of time from year to year, and with books of every sort to be had for the asking, it is little wonder that the question is continually repeated. "What shall we read?" It is an individual problem. Each must choose according to his need. Before deciding what to read, one should ask why he reads. Good literature supplies an outlet for the emotions, satisfies the soul's longing, increases one's joy in life, gives a more sympathetic understanding of humanity, a greater appreciation of eternal values, and enriches and enlarges life. "There is no greater magic in the world than the printed book," says Gove Hambidge.... Few of us realize how much the course and pattern of our lives are shaped by books."* How necessary it is that one should use judgment and discrimination in choosing his reading material. But even scholars realize that it is difficult to set up standards by which literary values may be determined. Henry Van Dyke in "Counsel *"Time To Live," by Gove Hambidge, Pub. McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Upon the Reading of Books," said: "Any author who has kept the affection, interest and confidence of thoughtful, honest readers through at least one generation is fairly sure to have something in him that is worth reading." Mr. Van Dyke classified readers into three groups, the simple, the intelligent, and the gentle reader. "The gentle reader," says he, "is the person who wants to grow, and who turns to books as a means of purifying his tastes, deepening his feelings, broadening his sympathies, and enhancing his joy in life."... The culture of a finer, fuller manhood is what this reader seeks. He is looking for the books in which the inner meanings of nature and life are translated into language of distinction and charm, touched with the human personality of the author, and embodied in forms of permanent interest and power. This is literature."† When there are so many rare, lovely books to be had, why should time be wasted on volumes that are a discredit to the author who pens them? The wisdom of the world has been salvaged through the ages by the magic of the printed page. The best minds of all time have clothed in choice language their greatest thoughts. Like silent friends they stand ready to instruct, to entertain, to uplift us with their ripe scholarship and divine inspiration. Are we going to accept the opportunity of forming friendships with these illustrious men and women, or are we going to loiter our time away with writers who †"Counsel Upon The Reading Of Books," Preface by Henry Van Dyke, Pub. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, Mass LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 575 576 do not interpret life's meanings truly and who view the world from a murky bog rather than the sunlit mountain crest? H. A. Overstreet, in his "Guide To Civilized Loafing,"‡ said, "Mental companionships, some of the finest in the world, may be had for the asking. I have but to lift my hand to a bookshelf and I have converse fit for the gods."‡ Let us cultivate a literary taste and cherish an affection for fine books. Let us be serious, earnest and sincere in choosing what we shall read. We want books that give us wholesome pleasure, books with a high purpose, that recognize moral and spiritual values, that help us to get more joy and beauty and permanent satisfaction out of life. We want high adventure, clean and uplifting; mystery, suspense; we want art, books that we can read aloud to our children; books that will leave us stronger and braver, more self-reliant and better prepared to meet life—and death. We want poetry, soft singing verse that we read for the sheer joy of its rhythmic beauty. The poets are the prophets of the race. They supply the ideals, the vision, that will lift mankind to the heights. Before taking time to read questionable volumes simply because they are popular and are widely advertised, we should remind ourselves that popular opinion makes mistakes. Popular opinion crucified the Savior, martyred the prophets, and has held up for criticism and ridicule the great and the good through the years. The person who has a cultivated taste for good literature is practically immune to the influence of ‡"A Guide To Civilized Loafing," By H. A. Overstreet, Pub. W. W. Norton & Co., New York. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a bad book, but he seldom wastes his time on this type of reading. He chooses rather, books that have moral significance, that broaden his horizon and enrich his life.
READING is not a habit we can assume when we are old. It grows with the years. The person who reads the right kind of books over a long period of time adds growth and development and joy to his soul. Persons who plan their reading and check their lists as they go, will have no unhappy surprises at the end of the year. A well balanced list includes philosophy, fiction, poetry, biography, history and religion. Let quality rather than quantity be your guide. Do you seek inspiration in your choice of books? Do you deliberately aim to read something uplifting every day? Are you proud to display to your friends your reading list for the year? Some persons plan to be always reading a book and always buying a book. As soon as one is completed they begin another. It may take them weeks, reading at odd moments and during empty half hours now and then, but it is a delightful and profitable diversion. A small container labeled, "Pennies For Books," will soon accumulate the price of some long desired volume. As soon as one is paid for begin again. There is joy and satisfaction in owning a few choice books. Don't you love to handle a well made book? Don't you love the feeling of the soft leather under your fingers? There are some books that one touches with reverence, and some that are as dear as old friends. There are books that may be read again and again. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY "Every year when the lilacs bloom," confessed a gentle old man, "I read Lucile again. It grows in tenderness and beauty with the years."
THE soul of man aspires to the beautiful, the sublime, that which is in harmony with the divine. All this we shall find and more, if we only take time to read. There is a book for every mood. Those who form the reading habit and cultivate a taste for literary 577 values, have possessed themselves of the key that will unlock the treasure chest of the ages. "Books! Thanks be to God for the gift of them, The pull and the urge and the lift of them; For the keen delight of the printed page, Priceless alike to the child or the sage; Thanks be to God for books," —Wordsworth. The quotations are used by special permission of the respective publishers.