Some Helpful Suggestions
MRS. EFFIE S. BARROWS of the Utah Agricultural College in speaking to Work and Business leaders of Relief Society in Provo gave some most helpful suggestions, which, if carried out, will contribute to the success of this day in our organization. The first thing she emphasized was punctuality?start and stop on time. Second, orderly surroundings. Do not have a blackboard with a lot of writing on it before the people so they will look and be wondering when the inscription on it was used and what it was for. Do not have a lot of handwork heaped up on the table. People will wonder when you are going to show it and that it will take too long if you are going to talk about all of it. If you are going to have an exhibit of work, have it in a different room than the lecture hall. Third, familiarity with the subject, know what you are going to say and be converted to it. Fourth, be sure the things you teach will be useful in the home. She urged that less fine stitching be put on quilts that are for warmth. She said that when they are so closely stitched they are compressed together so that there is less warmth in them. Fifth, tell what you are going to tell them, tell or develop it, and tell what you have told them. Sixth, have something to show or illustrate what you are emphasizing, but do not pass it around while you are giving your talk, otherwise you lose your people. Seventh, do not attempt to do too much at one session. Leave the group feeling that the subject has not been exhausted. She urged that each kitchen have a rest and business center, or a home brain center. She demonstrated how feasible this is in practically every kitchen. Packing boxes may be made into a desk, or if there isn't room for this, a board with hinges that can be raised and lowered may be used. Then women could have their writing material in the kitchen and could watch the cooking. This would save much burning, and many more things could thus be accomplished. She pointed out the desirability of having a telephone, a little radio and a clock on this desk.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony Lesson III
A SUPREME RULE OF LIFE?THE LAW OF BROTHERHOOD
Helpful References In the New Testament?Matthew 5:39-48; 6:1-4; 7:1-5, 12; 9:10-13; 18:1-15, 21-35; 22:35-39; 23:1-12; Mark 8:36, 37; Luke 10:29-36; 15; Romans 12:10-21; James 1:27. In the Book of Mormon?Mosiah 2:12-19; 4:13-30. In the Doctrine and Covenants?Sec. 4:3-6; 38:24, 25, 34, 35. Smith?Gospel Doctrine, Chapter 18. Talmage?Articles of Faith, Chapter 24. Rall?The Teachings of Jesus, Chapters 10, 11.
1. The Law of Brotherhood One of the Supreme Values?In Christ's day as in our own?in fact in every age of the world, men have asked what the largest and greatest things are, whether physical or spiritual. We are prone to ask which is the highest mountain, the tallest building, the longest bridge, and what not. Similarly, in the realm of spiritual values we ask which are greatest. In this lesson it is our purpose to examine Christ's teaching respecting the supreme value of the brotherhood of man.
2. On a certain occasion a lawyer asked the Savior a question. "Master," said he, "which is the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." (Matthew 22: 36-40.) On still another occasion the Christ summed up supreme values in similar vein when He said, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so unto them: for this is the law and the prophets." (Matthew 7:12.)
3. Brotherhood is not Simply a Relation of Give and Get?In our daily relations with men and women we are too prone to be brotherly only with our friends. To love only our friends is more like the law of the jungle than anything else. It is not the type of love taught by the Christ. Dr. Franklin Rall has very appropriately said, "Jesus' hearers did not need to be told what brotherliness was; the trouble lay not in the fact but in the extent. Men limited the practice of brotherhood then just about as they do now, and Jesus points out these limitations. We love, first of all, those that love us. We love our friends. We send gifts at Christmas to those who send gifts to us, and change the day of God's good will into an anxious season of buying and trading. That is not brotherhood, that is simply the old rule of give and take. Brotherhood means grace; it means giving where you do not get." (Matthew 5:38-42.)
4. Christ's Conception of Brotherliness?The Savior pointed out very definitely the kind of relationship that should exist between man and 598 man. It was to be after the order that exists between God and man. In speaking of this relationship Christ said, "For he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye?" (Matthew 5:45, 46.) In the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15:11-32) the Savior demonstrated in masterly fashion, for the benefit of the Scribes and Pharisees, in what true brotherhood consisted. When the erring son returned home after spending his means in riotous living, his father saw him "when he was yet a great way off" and proceeded to exhibit his love and affection for him. The father did not upbraid him and punish him for his misdeeds. He saw the important thing, namely, that he was able to reclaim a lost son. We cannot help but feel that in this story the Savior meant to portray the action of the father toward the son as the type of feeling that should prevail between all men. How different the feeling exhibited by the son who stayed at home! This son had a mean, hard, critical, and self-centered attitude toward the whole procedure of his father. As Dr. Rall points out, "He does not say, 'My brother,' but 'Thy son.' He drags out the details of his brother's shame, 'who hath devoured thy living with harlots'. He is as little filial in spirit as he is fraternal; he looks upon his father as a kind of taskmaster (verse 29). When he thinks of a possible good time it is 'with my friends', not with his father." Another masterly treatment of this theme is found in the Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-35). The lawyer who provoked the parable from the lips of Christ had said, "And who is my neighbor?" He might just as well have said, "And who is my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE brother?" Neighbor and brother are practically synonymous in the thinking of the Savior. The brotherly action of the good Samaritan is not so much brought out in the fact that he bound up the wounds of the man whom he found by the wayside, and whom he brought to an inn, as in the fact that "On the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee." (Verse 35.) The good Samaritan was thinking not of the least he could do for his brother, but of the most. His brotherly act was not finished when he left the inn; it proceeded to operate even in his absence. It was characteristic of the Christ to think of maximum obligation rather than of minimum requirement which characterized so much of the moral teaching of his contemporaries. 5. The Worth of Human Souls to God Demands Brotherhood Among Men.?The human soul is of infinite worth in the eyes of God. Christ pointed that out when He said, "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" (Mark 8:36, 37.) In making this statement our Lord did not have reference to man's mere physical existence here or hereafter. He had reference to "his true life as a man and child of God both here and yonder." So precious is even a child that Christ could say, "And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea." (Mark 9:42.) The modern scriptures emphasize God's love for man as follows.