How Do We Know? By Nephi Jensen Nineteenth Century one of the popular subjects of discussion among the intelligentia was the question of spontaneous generation of life. Does life originate in lifeless substance? Does life come from the lifeless? For several decades these interesting questions challenged the thought of profound thinkers and eminent scholars. Surface indications seemed to favor the advocates of spontaneous generation. On every hand it was observed that worms, maggots, and flies came into life in multitudinous swarms, in decaying vegetables and fruits and in decaying flesh. Whence came these multiforms of living things? From lifeless substance, said the adherents of the theory that life comes from the non-living. IN the fifties and sixties of the FOR a time practically all scientists fell in with this view. About this time there was living in France a young ambitious scientist who was destined to immortal fame. He was inclined to question the theory of. Spontaneous generation. His name is Pasteur. He commenced to surmise that the maggots that suddenly commenced to develop in decaying flesh might be the result of germinal life coming into contact with the decomposing flesh. At that time nothing was known of micro-organisms. Pasteur's faint surmise led him to make some very simple experiments. For example, he placed pieces of meat in a jar and covered the opening with closely knit gauze. He observed that no animal life developed inside the jar; but that lusty wiggling things appeared outside of the gauze. The conclusion was forced upon the young experimenter that there must be infinitesimal life germs floating about in the air; and that it was because these microbes come into contact with substance in which they can breed, that new visible life forms result.: Through long tedious persistent and industrious years he continued his indefatigable experiments. In time he discovered the bacteriological theory of disease. Which gave rise to the great modern science of medicine, and antiseptic surgery. And the man who wrought so splendidly with the marvelous tools of experimentation came to be called "The most perfect man to enter the Kingdom of Science." The appellation is hardly exaggerated. The story of Pasteur's successful experiments and investigations furnishes one of the noblest chapters in the history of the modern scientific method, which has flooded our world with the glory of light and truth. N recent decades science has made it possible for us to make everything from a pin to a telescope lense that can penetrate the depths of infinite space; and equipped us with deft instruments with which we weigh, measure, gauge, dissect, and analyze everything from a human impulse to the largest star that swirls through space at inconceivable rates of speed. HOW DO WE KNOW? The inerrancy of the scientific method, and its astounding accomplishments in recent years, have had a marked tendency to cause us to look with disdain upon other methods of ascertaining truth. The measuring devices of science, in the field of mechanics and technology, have become so accurate that we are commencing to insist upon gauging all truth with the yardstick of the scientific technician. If we follow this tendency too far we are apt to close our eyes to vast areas of truth; and fail to learn some of the vital principles that exalt and ennoble life. Sir Oliver Lodge, the great English physicist, is one of a number of eminent scientists who recognize the danger in this tendency to measure all truth with the yardstick of physical science. In his most interesting book, Reason and Belief, he gives an apt illustration of the errors that result from a purely critical appraisal of all human knowledge. He quotes the beautiful description of dawn which Shakespeare puts into the mouth of Romeo: "Night's candles are burned out and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops." Dr. Lodge observes that this is a rare bit of poetic truth. And then he very pointedly says that as a "scientific statement it is nonsense." And so it is. Night has no candles that can burn out. The moon and stars that give light by night are inextinguishable. Moreover, "jocund day" has no feet or toes. Consequently it cannot stand tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. And yet, notwithstanding the fact that this scrap of poetic fancy from the immortal bard is "scientific 559 nonsense," it is, nevertheless, profoundly true as a piece of art. By his unparalleled genius Shakespeare has made the mere abstraction "day" fairly live, move, and breathe. NO thinking person would recommend that we should lay aside the test tube, the crucible, or the tools of the technologist. But sound wisdom would suggest that we do not forget that there are vital truths, whose significance and importance cannot be discovered in the scientific laboratory. The philosophical way of arriving at truth is older than the scientific method. The philosopher's process of determining what is truth may not be as accurate as the scientific method, but it is the only method that is workable in some realms of truth-seeking. We can learn some truth as the scientist does, by technical experimentation; and we can also learn some truth as the philosopher does, by profound meditation in the light of the sum total of truth. Some six hundred years before Jesus wrought and taught in Galilee, Confucius, a Chinese philosopher, attempted to crystalize into one sentence all the rules governing human relationships. His consolidated code of morals is embodied in his well-known version of the Golden Rule. "Whatsoever ye would not that others do to you, do not to them." Suppose we were confronted with the problem of determining whether or not this noble concept is truth; what measuring devices would we use? If we answer this question correctly we shall be compelled to conclude that there are fields of truth seeking in which the yardstick of science cannot aid us. We 560 cannot determine the soundness of the conclusion of the Chinese philosopher by measuring, weighing, dissecting, or analyzing it. We are compelled to resort to synthesis. We are forced to consider it in its relationship to the sum total of moral truth in all of its manifold relationships. Or, in other words, we are compelled to philosophize—fit truth into truth and make a unified system. But there are many things we learn in ways that are even simpler than either the method of the strict philosopher or the technical scientist. And these more direct means of learning often yield absolute certainty. "I am as certain of what I am saying as I am that two and two make four," says the man on the street. All of us have heard this explanation of the certainty of knowledge. Few of us have ever thought of calling it into question. And yet, asa matter of fact, there are many things about which we are more sure than the sum of two plus two. Two is only a mental concept. So is four. Mere concepts, disassociated with actual experience, do not necessarily constitute absolute knowledge. But you touch a hot stove. Your hand is blistered. You conclude that heat gives pain and destroys your skin. Here you have an actual experience plus a concept. In fact, you have an experienced concept. An experience, if real, correctly interpreted is absolute knowledge. Take another illustration. You walk into the garden in the early morning. The sunlight is turning the dewdrops in the hearts of the roses to pearls. You have a sensation of refined delight. You feel an actual exaltation of mind. You cenclude that the beautiful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is that which gladdens and ennobles the mind. Here again you have an experience, and you translate that experience into a concept. This experienced concept is perfect knowledge.. But we dq not arrive at our knowledge of the meaning of the beautiful by the technical scientific method. In science we discover data, collate it, analyze it, and make deductions. But our sensation of the beautiful is immediate. We feel it rather than arrive at it by logical processes. It was this elementary idea that led John Burroughs to say, "We do not know a work of art in the same way that we know a work of science or a product of analytical reasoning; we know it as we know those we are in sympathy with; it does not define itself to our intellect; it melts into our souls." A great many of the things we know and prize most highly, we know as we know "those we are in sympathy with." A frequented garden nook, an oft-seen landscape, a familiar poem, a cherished story are all things we know sympathetically. Although we rigorously insist on utilizing the accurate measuring devices of science in the field of mechanics and technology, yet if we are wise we shall not look with disdain upon the knowledge the artist acquires by his sensitive sympathetic touch with the beautiful. IF we would not want to reject appreciation of the beautiful as a means of knowledge, what shall we say of the mystic's claimed contact with the unseen world? The mention of the mystic is apt to provoke a smile and the elevation of the eyebrows of those who insist rigorously upon seeing, HOW DO WE KNOW? handling, weighing and measuring all truth with strictly scientific instruments. But even in the ranks of those who spend almost all their time with the measuring devices of physical science are found men whose penetrating insight compels them to respect the mystic's source of knowledge. Dr. Arthur Stanley Eddington, the internationally known astronomer, quotes Dr. J. S. Hoyland as saying: "There is an hour in the Indian night, a little before the first glimmer of dawn, when the stars are unbelievably clear and close above, shining with a radiance beyond our belief in this foggy land. The trees stand silent, alive, listening, eager. At such a moment the veil between the things that are seen and the things that are unseen becomes so thin as to interpose scarcely any barrier at all between the eternal beauty and truth and the soul which would comprehend them." Commenting upon this experience of Dr. Hoyland, Dr. Eddington remarks: "Here is an experience which the observer as technically defined in scientific theory knows nothing of. The measuring appliances which he reads declare that the stars are just as remote as they always have been, nor can he find any excuse in his measures for the mystic thought which has taken possession of the mind and dominated the sense-impressions. Yet who does not prize these moments that reveal to us the poetry of existence?" Then he adds: "We cannot argue that because natural mysticism is universally admitted in some degree therefore religious mysticism must be admitted; but objections to religious 561 mysticism lose their force if they can equally be turned against natural mysticism." The mystic's claimed contact with the unseen is close to what prohets call inspiration. The greatest soul that ever trod this globe and all His purest followers have believed that there is a spirit of light and truth that radiates out from God, like the waves from the radio transmission instrument; and that when human souls are pure this spirit registers definite intelligible impressions upon their spirits, very much like the light that strikes the delicate photographic plate. All these great souls have believed with Tennyson that "Spirit with spirit can meet." A modern classical example of "spirit with spirit" contact with the unseen is furnished by the story of the manner in which Lorenzo Snow attained certain knowledge of the divinity of the religion to which he gave the full measure of his life's devotion. After his baptism he was profoundly stirred with a desire to learn from a divine source whether his newly espoused religion was true. In a simple autobiographical sketch, he tells us that he sought in earnest prayer for a divine testimony of the truth; and that while he prayed the Spirit of God completely enveloped him and filled him from head to foot with light, life, and unspeakable joy and glory. All darkness left him; and he felt the presence of "refulgent light and knowledge." Why should we doubt this inspiring testimony? Hundreds of thousands of devout members of the church most solemnly testify that the Spirit of Truth has given them more than human certainty of God's power and goodness. The 562 imperishable testimonies of this host of witnesses is the enduring strength and spiritual glory of the church of God. The profound spiritual awakening that came to Lorenzo Snow is the deepest and most vital experience that comes to a human soul in this world. He was "quickened in the inner man." He was "awakened" to the reality of God and His power and goodness. He received the abundant life—the inexhaustible life of God. The Prophet Moroni tells us that we can "know the truth of all things" by the "Power of the Holy Ghost." This homely text holds a profound meaning. The words literally mean that we may be made alive to all truth by the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE intensifying and quickening power of the Holy Ghost. In other words, the Holy Spirit purifies and intensifies our consciousness or feelings, and multiplies our power to know the truth. One who has been awakened by the quickening power of the Spirit has been born of the Spirit. He has become spiritual, He has attained the highest aspect of culture—joyous, exalting, and glorifying spirituality. All the finest souls of all time have earnestly sought this spiritual quickening through which man comes into actual contact with God—the ultimate reality— and feels the infinite joy of fellowship with Him, through which comes "the peace that passeth all understanding."