The Institute at the University of Wyoming as it appears to an outsider By Lorene Pearson,
TO express what the L. D. S. Institute at the University of Wyoming means to one who is not a member of the Church may appear, on the surface, to have little value; and yet, I believe this project to be a community affair in a very real sense, the concern, in fact, of all who are interested in the welfare of young people. It has demonstrated what may be done for the individual student through intelligent guidance—courses in the history of religion, and personal advice from a Director fitted for the task; and it has shown what may be done to develop the cooperative spirit on a most heterogeneous campus. Three years ago very few people in Laramie were aware that Mormons lived here, and if they did know they had no idea what the Church really stood for. This was no reflection on the local Branch; rather it was a compliment to the foresight of the President, Mr. A. E. Bowman and his enthusiastic partner in the venture, that they realized the need of a concrete symbol of their faith. No group can make itself felt in a community without a building, an institution; this is particularly true in a University town where the population is constantly in flux. Knowing this, the local members, particularly the leaders, devoted ten years of unremitting effort to make the beautiful native stone structure a reality. Theirs was the pioneering, the hardships, that, only as they are ended, become known. As one man said to me, "I didn't even know there were any Mormons in Laramie, and suddenly they spring up all over the town." He was exaggerating, of course, and yet the importance of the Church has increased one-hundred fold with the building of the Institute. It is a worthy monument to the zeal of the local Branch and to the response of the Church in answer to their need. Not only does the building afford ample facilities for many phases of activity with chapel, lecture hall, library, ballroom, two club-rooms and reception room, but it is also one of the best designed and most artistically decorated places in Laramie. It is with this second phase, the construction of the Institute, that the first Director, Mr. J. Wyley Sessions, had so much to do; he, with his charming, capable wife, brought culture and taste to the institution in the choice of furnishings; and, keenly aware of the awakening interest in the community, they fostered the fine social feeling that has developed. Theirs was the period of introducing to outsiders the aims and ideals of the Latter-day Saints, and they achieved this most successfully. And now the present Director, Dr. Daryl Chase, has inaugurated yet another phase in the development of the organization. He has emphasized the necessity of scholarship, knowing, as he does, that human relationships are endlessly inter-related—between the 588 Church and the secular world as well as within the Church itself—and that learning overcomes all barriers. The Institute, under his guidance, has become an integral part of the community,—it has achieved the cooperative spirit. This attainment, of course, is most noticeable within the group itself; every individual, whether a member of the Branch or a student at the University, obviously knows himself to be a necessary part of the Institute; whatever he is doing—planting the lawn, preparing a lesson for Sunday school, or showing visitors through the building—he feels responsibility in making the project a success.
THIS manifestation is not, of course, an accidental thing; it has roots deep in the creative past of the Church; the leaders have always realized the need for more complex integration as the Church expanded. And now that the present generation finds itself increasingly in secular society—even as the early Christian Church through the missions of Paul found itself no longer an isolated institution—organizations are being established to meet the new need. The first supplement to public education were the Primary Associations; then the Junior Seminaries followed by High School Seminaries, and, since 1926 the Institutes which are designed to augment the teaching of the colleges and universities in states adjoining Utah.
FROM the very first inception of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there was realization that the whole man was not only the happiest man, but the most helpful to others, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that therefore man's experiences must be unified—all his experiences, secular, sectarian, spiritual and physical; and, knowing that religion may play the important part in this significant task, provision, in the form of organizations, was made. How real a need there was for a unifying agent on the campus at Laramie, could only too well be told by members of the Branch, or anyone else interested in students. Mr. Bowman and Mr. Quayle did what they could by holding meetings in their homes, but no amount of effort could overcome the inadequacy of space, the time at their disposal. I have known L. D. S. Students, and others as well, who came down here to school, and who, because there was no organized effort to aid their adjustment, became one-sided in their outlook. These students, for the most part, came from small communities, rudimentary, not unlike pioneer communities; and these young people had not had the profound experience of their elders in helping to build these towns; then, suddenly they came in contact with a multitude of viewpoints. Either of two reactions was very likely to occur—both undesirable: one student might decide that he had been deluded all his life (a common reaction to a superficial introduction to the sciences) and deny completely all that he had learned as a child; another might take these new ideas as a personal insult to himself or his family, and, without examining them further, close his mind completely. Of course, neither of them delved deeply enough into science or he would have perceived that it, also, is in a formative stage, groping towards truth, even as the human spirit. The danger of the lack of THE INSTITUTE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING 589 guidance in this critical period, lies in the probability that once having left the classroom the student, for a number of reasons, seldom continues his inquiry into the nature of things far enough to work out his salvation for himself. His religious education did not keep pace with his secular education and there was no one to effectively integrate the conflict. Not that these college students themselves were particularly conscious of what they lacked, although the more acute sensed it. It was the parents, as Mr. Quayle has said, who wanted their children to come back to them matured, not one-sided. These parents, who had gone through deprivations for the sake of their faith, knew the price and the reward of unification. But Mr. Bowman knew that it was a different process from that which served for the parents, and he and Mr. Quayle worked unceasingly to get a hearing before the Education Board of the Church, the President of the University of Wyoming, even before President Grant himself. The Church saw the need; for essentially, it is but the parent "writ large" in this case.
SO now, the individual student—the leader of tomorrow—is able to attain perspective and balance if he wishes: admirable courses are offered in general religion as well as in Mormonism; the Director is a particularly able person to guide in this adjustment. And the Institute is a building of which he may be proud; it gives him the feeling that his group is an important part of the community; he feels a collective pride in this. And when outsiders ask him "what is Mormonism that knows the needs of its young people in the most critical period of life?" he extends a friendly hand and introduces them to the hospitality of the Institute.