Needle Point By Nettie K. Miller
OUR day is marked by a widespread revival of interest in one of the most delicate of all embroidery—needle point. There is an old-world atmosphere about needle point that is largely responsible for its continued appeal. It conjures up visions of stately Chateaux and candle-lit drawing rooms, of elegant ladies of the court with curled and powdered wigs and tapering jeweled fingers. History, fancies, and romance are worked in its very stitches, and shades of ancient needle women cling lovingly to the old bits of silk and wool. Exquisite pieces of petit point and gros point, which upholstered the furniture of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, were ripped off by the dealers of greater diligence than taste. Replaced by less faded coverings, designed to catch the eye of the New Aristocracy, these pieces were flung in disregarded piles in corners. It may be said with perfect truth that America is responsible for this most interesting of rediscoveries. Immediately after the World War, American collectors and dealers appeared, purses in ready hands, to celebrate the wake of Continental poverty. The discarded bundles of needle point were shipped overseas, then paid the compliment of a more thoughtful observation than had been accorded by their native land.
NEEDLE point has now become the insistent demand of all who seek exquisite furnishings and have the wherewithal for their purchase. Needle point, which is the general term embracing both petit and gros point embroidery, is the most careful of handicrafts. The "art" of needle point is not so much in the detail of its execution, troublesome and important though that is, as in the selection, harmony and contrast of its colors. No medium, save oil, presents a greater opportunity for skillful and charming coloring. It is often called needlework pictures, because the patterns are taken from famous tapestries—as gay as the Vienna of romance. The surface of needle point embroidery is divided into small units 578 of color, so fine that extraordinary blending is possible. The results are harmonious and marvelously pleasing. The little diagonal stitch was called "tent stitch" in England, while in Rome, the Latin synonym for needle point was "cushion stitch."
THE contemporary amateur, who considers needle point as a hobby, should be forewarned of its difficulty. Unparalleled patience, deftness, and good taste are requisites. It is fascinating and difficult. The linen mesh upon which it is worked is woven into tiny open squares of coarse thread. There are three sizes of stitch. The large stitch, made with wool yarn, takes up four little strands of foundation canvas. This is called gros point. The medium size is on much finer foundation scrim, and is worked with finer yarn of D. M. C. Mercerized cotton. It is done with the naked eye, and is called "petit point done with the naked eye." Then there is "petit point made under a magnifying glass." It takes up only one strand of foundation canvas, which is very fine. It is usually made with silk or D. M. C., only one strand of thread being used. The real petit point is called "petit point made under glass," and contains approximately sixteen hundred stitches to the square inch. There are, therefore, countless thousands of individual operations necessary before even the least conspicuous frame is filled. Because it is an embroidery and not a frame-woven tapestry, it is especially adapted for use upon a surface such as a chair seat, or a cushion, where there is constant friction or "pulling." A loomed stitch will bunch and pull, but needle point, because of the nature of its construction, is practically impervious to wear.
THOSE eras in which it has especially flourished have been separated by wide gaps of time, but it seems to have recurred in each with increasing, rather than diminished, beauty. The literature which touches upon needle point is astonishingly small. This is the more strange, inasmuch as needle point seems to be the oldest and most artistically important of any of the myriad forms of needlework. It appears first historically in the later Roman Empire, although its origin, like most other things, seems to have been in some forgotten period of the Chinese Empire. The first age in which it attained any lasting importance was in China during the thirteenth century. Some of the most exquisite pieces date from that epoch. The petit point stitch was used almost exclusively, and only silk, as might be expected, was employed. During the middle of the sixteenth century, needle point next appeared as a definite revival. It first became the fashion in France, but rapidly passed across the channel into England. Curiously enough, in a collection of sixteenth century work at Devonshire, there is one old piece of petit point, worn and faded with time, in which the English rose, the Scotch thistle, and the lily of France are mournfully combined. A center oval in yellow silk bears two frogs on a well, a crown and the name "Mary." Poor Mary of Scots! Her lesson on needle point from her mother-in-law must have served her in good stead to while away the hours of captivity at Hardwicke. Another piece in the collection is signed E. S. 1590, and would indicate that the Queen's jailor practiced the stitch also. The innocent occupation later got the poor Queen in trouble. Several chair backs being finished, the Queen directed them sent to the Duchesse Clery. The municipals, from whom permission was sought, thought the designs represented hieroglyphics, designed to open a correspondence with the outside. Consequently, it was forbidden to allow any work done by the Queen to leave the tower.
NEEDLE women turned to the Bible for subjects, and, in many old pieces, we come onto the familiar figures of Adam and Eve, and Pharaoh's daughters finding Moses in the rushes. Little bags were worked in the stitch to hold the elaborately embroidered books of the period. Exquisite petit point handbags were a prized possession, designed with lyrical scenes worked out lovingly in many rich colors.
WHEN Mary and William of Orange came to the throne, the Queen was an enthusiastic needle woman, and set to work with her ladies to cover the chairs of the palace with her handiwork. She labored "with a diligence as if she had been earning her bread by it," according to a Bishop of the period, who thought it a new sight to see a Queen work so hard. When she rode in her coach, she was always working on her frame. The vogue for petit point continued all through the reign of the dowdy Queen Anne. Needlework became a veritable passion with the fashionable ladies of the day. Sofas, wing chairs, settees, and those little love seats, "too large for one and not large enough for two," covered in petit point, were prominent in the drawing rooms of the day. The designs were usually done in wool with silk introduced only for the high lights. Often a figure group 579 formed the center piece. A little gentleman and lady in the costume of the period was done in fine petit point, and this was surrounded by a scroll design in a coarser stitch. Some truly ardent devotees of the stitch even made carpets. In 1774, the Hon. Mrs. Boscawen writes to a friend, "I think it curious to see my Lady Leicester at work on a tent stitch frame, every night by one candle that she sets upon it, and no spectacles. It is a carpet that she works in shades of tent stitch." Some of these carpets are 9 x 12 feet in size, and represent an immense amount of time and labor. In France, where upholstered furniture was the invariable rule, its use as furniture covering, and as insets, panels in secretaries, sideboards, bell ropes, and so on, became widespread. With the transition of the art into England, there came a new vitality. The combination of gros point and petit point was common during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, but with succeeding years, the petit point stitch almost totally disappeared.
WITH the close of the eighteenth century, gros and petit point were almost forgotten, and permitted to mold into disuse. The needlework chairs faded day by day, and the moth carried away a goodly share of the fine old stitches. Then, with the Victorian era, Berlin woolwork became fashionable, and petit point was done once more. Crude designs and colors characterized the work. The Victorian miss shook out her curls and pouted as she tried to reproduce the oil paintings of Landseer or Ruben's Crucifixion, in the coarse wool. "Mary, Queen of Scots, weeping over the dying Douglas" was a favorite subject with the ladies, who shed sentimental tears, as they embroidered the touching scene. Others 580 copied glaring illustrations in the London News, and battle scenes of the South African War, Death of the Prince Imperial, Victoria and Albert, and like images were produced in great number. Often a fire screen was worked with a motto surrounded with flowers. One old one read: "When I was young And in my prime, Here you may see How I spent my time." We are only just recovering from the shock that these creations used RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to produce, and now, tinged with age, we class them as "amusing."
BUT, again, needle point is at a new height. Probably never before has a larger audience been attracted by its peculiar charm, and the old aristocratic art is growing as fashionable as it was in bygone days. The best class of petit point work usually comes from France, but America is ahead of other countries in enthusiasm for it, although England and France have felt the contagion. It has achieved the highest standard of execution, quite comparable in every respect with that of centuries past.
TWO BREAD RECIPES By Christina V. Wilson
This bread can be made and baked in three hours time. Fresh milk must be boiled and cooled.
Whole Wheat Bread—Two Loaves (9 x 5 inches) (Mix in order given) 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons Crisco or other fat 1 tablespoon and 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiling water
Stir well, until honey and Crisco are melted, then add 1 cup canned milk
When luke warm, add 1 yeast cake, crumbled 2½ cups warm water (or more, depending upon flour used). 4 cups whole wheat flour.
Beat very well with spoon, then add 5 cups whole wheat flour
Knead well with hands, shape into loaves, put into baking pans and let raise one hour or until dough is ¾ inch above pans. Bake 1 hour and 10 minutes in oven at 375 degrees.
White Bread—Two Loaves (9x5 inches) (Mix in order given) 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons Crisco or other fat 1 tablespoon salt 1 cup boiling water
Stir to melt honey and Crisco, then add 1 cup canned milk,
When luke warm, add 1 yeast cake crumbled ¼ cup luke warm water 4 cups white flour.
Beat well with spoon, then add 4 cups white flour.
Knead well with hands. Let raise, shape into loaves, and let raise a second time. Bake 1 hour in oven at 375 degrees.