VOL. XXIV SEPTEMBER, 1937 No. 9
Editorials
Happiness
"Man is that he might have joy."
IN a day when people were taught that it was unseemly to be joyous, that the blinds should remain drawn to exclude the sunlight on the Sabbath, that laughter desecrated the Lord's Day, and that if one were happy one day he would be miserable the next, came the message, "Man is that he might have joy." So the restored Gospel emphasizes the importance of being cheerful, of living a happy life. The foundation stone of happiness is trust in God, for calmness, peace, and cheer come to those who trust in the overruling providence of the Father. Again and again was this emphasized in the lives of the Pioneers. No hardships were too difficult, no journey too long, no sorrow too poignant, but what they could relax and be happy in their hope, in their recreation, in their absolute trust. One day a pioneer mother was telling her daughter of the time when flour was so scarce and when their homes were left ready to be burned at the coming of Johnston's army. Her daughter asked, "Didn't you feel terrible?" "I was never happier in my life," she replied. She like Paul had learned the philosophy that underlies happiness. He said, "I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." So when he was persecuted or in prison, or beaten, there was a peace, a happiness that only those who trust in the Lord can feel or understand. The loving Father intended we should be happy. A noted Doctor has said, "Human life was intended for happiness. If we are not happy, we are using life wrong. Happiness is found in the midst of poverty; happiness has resisted years of unjust misunderstandings. If one is not happy he wrongly blames life; he should scrutinize more deeply his use of it. Parents, teachers, friends, servants, the having or having not, the obtaining or failing, these cannot EDITORIALS make us happy or unhappy save as we determine. Just in so far as we succeed in crowding fourteen hours of happiness into our day, * * * have we succeeded in the business of living." A friend once asked Hayden why his church music was always so full of gladness. He replied, "I cannot make it otherwise. I write according to the thoughts I feel; when I think upon my God, my heart is so full of joy, that the notes leap from my pen; and since God has given me a cheerful heart, it will be pardoned me that I serve him with a cheerful spirit." Commenting on this Van Dyke says, "Pardoned? Nay it will be praised and rewarded. For God looks with approval and man turns with gratitude to everyone who shows by a cheerful life that religion is a blessing for this world and the next." Happiness is vital to our well being. The wise man says, "A merry heart doeth good like a medicine." And Christ's reiterated message is, "Be of good cheer." R. DE SCHWEINITZ in his volume "The Art Of Helping People Out Of Trouble" shows the virtue of "wearing the mask of happiness." He tells a story related by Lafcadio Hearn in his Japanese letters, who had a cook who ever wore a smiling, healthy, rather pleasing face. One day, however, as he looked through a little hole in the shoji and saw the cook alone, he noted that his face did not look the same. "It was thin and drawn and showed queer lines worn by old hardship." As he went in the room, again his cook's face looked young and happy, and he said "He wears the mask of happiness as an etiquette."
HOW glorious is the attitude of George Bernard Shaw who looks joyously forward. He says, 595 "I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake. Life is no 'brief candle' for me. It is a sort of splendid torch, which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations." We were surprised to read recently in an article by a well-known writer, "Marriage humanly speaking is a job. Happiness or unhappiness has nothing to do with it." We think happiness or unhappiness has very much to do with the success or failure of the marital tie. Unhappiness depresses, brings illness and a feeling of futility in its wake. Happiness brings health and power of achievement. No marriage can succeed where unhappiness is a frequent visitor or where it abides continually. In order to be happy avoid melancholy and self-pity. Some dwell on one loss and forget the many treasures they possess. Jacob is not the only one who mourns unduly over the loss of loved ones. "Joseph is not and Simeon is not and ye will take Benjamin also," cried the mourning Patriarch. "All these things are against me. If I am bereft of my children ye will bring down my gray hairs in sorrow to the grave."
THE effect of the Gospel message is shown when death comes. Instead of putting on the habilament of woe and gloom, people are now wearing their bright clothes. Instead of isolating themselves, they are carrying on their duties with smiling faces. There is much more to the philosophy of happiness than appears on the surface. Dr. Link says, "As personality expands our happiness 596 also expands," while Emerson says that happiness is a perfume you cannot pour on others without getting a few drops on yourself. While the dictionary says that mental and moral health and freedom from irksome cares are the normal conditions for happiness, many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who are beset with trouble, because of their faith in God and their trust in His all-wise providence, move serenely through the ills of life "believing them masked joys." Happiness is vital to our well being and while it is effected by outward things, its source is ever within.