9 Utah Becomes Art Conscious By Ruth Grant RIGHAM YOUNG once said, B "If I were placed upon a cannibal island and given the task of civilizing its inhabitants, I would straightway build a theatre." He might just as easily have said, "A music hall or an art gallery," for he realized fully that the highest type of civilization finds expression in such fruits of the fine arts as come from an appreciation of the best in drama, literature, music and painting. The people of Utah are "art conscious" to rather a high degree— and they should be. Perhaps they should be much more than they are considering their heritage from the past and the inspiration which should come from such beautiful surroundings. ROM the very first day that the pioneers entered the valley and gazed upon the gray and purple of its sagebrush stretches they were taught that, "Man does not live by bread alone," although, at that time, the struggle for bread was enough to test the mettle of the most valiant of the band. In spite of all hardships, the leader insisted that the seeking after the artistic and spiritual things of life must be a daily part of the lives of these strugglers. Two brass bands were included in the first companies to leave Illinois on the westward trek and, no matter how footsore and weary the people might be after trudging all day over the trackless plains, the. Evenings were spent in song and dance around the campfire, providing conditions were at all favorable. Thus was implanted in their hearts, along with the need for the preservation of the body, a desire for the expression of the soul. The missionary system of the Church also played an important part in laying a foundation for artistic effort and appreciation among its people by bringing as converts splendid artists in various lines from all parts of the world. By this means from Australia came Ridges, the organ builder; from Wales, Giles, the blind harpist, and from other countries the painters Weggeland, Ottinger and Hafen. Utah drew these artists here because her rugged barriers constituted a haven of refuge from religious intolerance and then, having brought them here, offered for their inspiration scenery with beauty unparalleled in the entire world. Gigantic canyons with granite rocks and ledges topped by green pines, Rae mountains whose color and imagery defy exaggeration, deserts that are brilliant and harsh in the noonday sun or soft and hazy in the mauve of evening and sunsets that are miracles of beauty. Every road leads toa new vista of loveliness. Every hour of the day changes the mood of the landscape with a turn of nature's kaleidoscope. AND what have the people of the state done to carry on the splendid work begun by those pioneer artists? What use have they made of the magnificent natural beauties which surround them? Many have worked energetically to keep art on the pinnacle it deserves and to enable others to experience the joy and satisfaction that has come to them. As far back as 1892 a group of early Utah artists organized the first society in the territory for the stimulation of ar', under the name of the "Society of Utah Artists." These pioneers in the field of art appreciation included J. Will Clawson, Edwin Evans, John Hafen, J. T. Harwood, T_crus Pratt, J. B. Fairbanks and Herman Hagg. They put on an exhibition once a year, in any available building, and as it was during the depression days of Grover Cleveland's administration there were many enipty buildings. Through their efforts, they made very definite progress towards first making Salt Lake City "art conscious." Their organization continued active until 1899 when it was, in a measure, supplanted by the Utah Art Institute. WHEN Utah became a state in 1896, one of the first acts of the new legislature was the creation of the Utah Art Institute for the furtherance of art, making Utah the first state in the union to enact such a measure. At times the biennial RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appropriation has been as high as $2000 to carry on the purposes of the institute, while at other times, a legislature more interested in other matters has made the appropriation much lower. One of the outstanding results of this measure was the creation of the permanent collection of the works of Utah artists which is housed in the State Capitol and named the "Alice Art Collection" in honor of Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne.. A great deal of credit must be given to Mrs. Horne for her work in the advancement of art in the state, both from the standpoint of what she has done to assist individual artists and what she has done to enhance the appreciation of art on the part of the public generally. She fought for years to gain adequate appropriation from the various state legislatures and has sponsored countless exhibitions throughout the state. She has also given valuable assistance to, schools that were beginning their permanent collections. "T'HE community which has done most for the furtherance of art is the city of Springville. The results of its efforts are outstanding, not only in Utah, but in the entire country. Each year the exhibit draws the works of famous artists throughout the nation and during one month people come from all over the state to view the splendid collection. A common question during April is, "Have you seen the Springville exhibition yet?" and if one must answer in the negative, he hastens to add, "But I'm going to." The idea had its origin because Springville was the home of the great artist, John Hafen and the noted sculptor, Cyrus Dallin. Not many miles away were born two other fine artists, Edwin Evans and J. T. Harwood. UTAH BECOMES The exhibit has been under the direct sponsorship of the High School but almost every member of the community, young and old, does his bit to cooperate in this splendid project. Otherwise, such wonderful success could not have been achieved. One class makes it a yearly practice to buy one of the pictures on exhibition. The purchase fund must be made up throughout the vear nickel by nickel. There is a candy sale one week, a dance or play the next, until by one means or «nother, the nickels grow into enougl: dollars to buy a beautiful painting tor the permanent collection of tiie school. The exhibition now las an added interest because of the jue new art gallery that has recently Leen erected to house the pictures. The building, which was made possible partly through government funds, is architecturally a fitting background for the treasures it will hold. The national exhibition can now, for the first time, be displayed to the best advantage and, in addition, there will be a space for the school's permanent collection to be on display during the national exhibition, which has not been possible before. THER schouls throughout the state, perhaps following the splendid example set by the Springville school, are working hard to acquire a creditable gallery of paintings. Two such are the North Cache High School, whose gallery has been named for Miss Florence' Ware and the South Cache who have named ART CONSCIOUS 553 theirs in honor of Lawrence Squires, a young artist of great promise who died a few years ago. OTEWORTHY among recent efforts to make the people of the state art conscious, has been the building of the Art Barn. Here in a charming setting on the east bench of Salt Lake City is the tasteful building made possible through the earnest efforts of Mrs. John Jensen and others. New exhibits are hung every few weeks and the lover of art is welcome to go to the Art Barn at any time and enjoy the beautiful paintings. Other phases of the fine arts also are promoted by groups who meet there to study music, drama or creative writing. With the Federal sponsorship of art through the W. P. A., which has been carried on in this state under the efficient direction of Miss Judy Lund, a new era has opened up for artists and art lovers which should have far reaching results. Upwards of $50,000 has been spent within the past few years and 36 artists have been employed in worthwhile artistic projects. Among the noteworthy accomplishments of these artists were the painting of the beautiful murals at the State Capitol and at the veteran's hospital. With the heritage of the inspiration of the pioneers, the support of nation and state, and the matchless scenery within our boundaries, the future of art in Utah should be a brilliant one.