Sold for Taxes By Pearl W. Peterson
JIM loved his home far more than do most boys. He tried moving from one place to another. Just when he began to feel at home in one locality, we would move on. He made new friends only to lose them again, until we built this home. It was most carefully planned, inside and out. The house was built and furnished to give cheer, comfort and inspiration; the grounds planted and cared for to create beauty and joy. Jim stood upon the lawn as mother and Mrs. Yorke walked out to find the brave little snowdrops amid the glistening green and gold of the winter aconites. He smiled at the amazement portrayed upon the visitor's face as mother walked slowly to the flower bed, stooped down and picked a silver blossom to give to her guest. Perhaps mother's acquaintances thought of her as he had when he read that never to be forgotten letter from daddy:
"Dearest children: "In spite of all the doctors could do, your mother is now blind. Her sorrow is so deep, although she hides it well, that we must never let her hear one word of bitterness or regret. She is very anxious to get back home where she knows every nook and cranny. You must have everything in its accustomed place so that she can go safely about and may sometimes forget her sad affliction. "Your loving father, "James Davidsen."
After reading it, Jim closed his eyes. He wondered how anyone could live in such blankness. He had seen an old blind beggar; so, in his own mind, he saw his busy cheerful mother changed into a gloomy sadfaced creature, feeling her way about or being led wherever she went. So he had sorrowed. Later he marveled at her accomplishments. He never knew how she fought to overcome her fear of the blackness which was her lot. He had one little glimpse of it on the day she returned home. He saw her kneel down by the couch and heard her whisper this prayer, "Father, if it be Thy will that I must walk in darkness throughout this life, I do thank Thee for this home, which is so familiar and dear to me."
THE desire for safety ranged against her greater desire to be busy and helpful. An heroic battle she waged, thankful every day for the intelligent thought and care which had gone into the making of our home. Soon she became a competent homemaker again, patient, happy and kind. But when she ventured alone beyond our gateway, she met with a series of accidents which reached their culmination when she stepped into a little hollow, falling and breaking her arm in two places. She was thankful that the hurt was no worse, yet the fright was never forgotten. From that time on she made no more efforts to visit her friends except on rare occasions when illness or trouble came to them. As Mrs. Yorke walked out to the gate, she said, "You have a lovely home, Mrs. Davidsen." Mother added, "And, because I know it so well, it is priceless to me."
JIM jumped over the fence into the vacant lot which belonged to us. In normal times daddy's carpentry work took so much of his time that one lot was all we could SOLD FOR TAXES care for. Jim and his friends used the other one for a playground. On the north side was a high board fence—along this the snow was all gone. Here they played marbles. Sometimes Jim played alone. Lyman Scott lived on the next lot. Jim could hear him talking to someone. He took no notice of the conversation until he heard daddy's name mentioned. These words came clearly to his ears, "I feel sorry for James Davidsen. His home will soon be sold for taxes." Jim was dumbfounded for a moment. Could that be true? Our home! He thought of mother as she appeared in strange places, totally blind, lost and miserable. How could she live without her home? He saw his father outside the house. He ran toward him, calling, "Daddy!"
"What is it, Jim?" "Will they sell our home for taxes?"
His father's face paled as he looked fearfully at the door. "Don't talk so loud. We mustn't let mother hear anything like that. The doctor says she is in a very delicate condition and cannot bear another sorrow." Jim had never seen his father look so sad. He had always appeared jovial. He went on in a subdued tone, "Unless we pay these four years taxes by the last of November, our home will be sold. But God is good. I know if we work with all our might and try to keep His commandments. He will save it for mother." Jim added, "She says that our Heavenly Father will grant us what we pray for, if we have faith."
"Yes—but faith and work are inseparable." "I wish I could get a job."
His father smiled at that, then answered seriously, "Cash jobs are scarce, these days. We had better create our own employment." Jim was puzzled. "How can we do that?"
"I have thought of only one thing and it will take some backbreaking work. Will you give up your playground to save our home?"
"I'll do anything."
"All right. We will plant vegetables in our vacant lot. We should be able to sell them at a fair profit."
"Oh! That will be fun."
"It will be work. Lyman Scott will let us use his team and implements, if I will do carpentry work for him. Our grocer will take vegetables later on in payment for seeds."
When mother called them in to supper she asked, "Will you get me some dark loam from the vacant lot, Jim?" Jokingly daddy advised, "You'd better not carry away too much of that ground. Jim and I are thinking of planting a garden there." Mother spoke impulsively, "Oh! I do wish you would. You'd be right at home and I'm sure we could sell flowers and vegetables, too. Why! I can already see a beautiful garden there." Jim looked at her puzzled again. She asked, "Will you let me help plan it?"
That sounded like extra work to Jim. "We don't have to plan a garden, mama."
"That depends upon your aim, son. If you merely want a lot of work, don't bother. But greatest success always comes from well planned labor. Even God made definite plans before He created this earth. I don't believe He is pleased with haphazard work." Daddy seconded all she said and 570 added, "He will give us a more abundant yield, if we do His way." Jim was silenced but he wondered how a blind person could plan a garden. The mystery increased when mother stated just where each variety should be planted and why that was the best place for it. I sketched the plan very carefully upon paper. Later daddy said to us, "Mother lives nearer to our Heavenly Father than we do. So, I think if we take her advice, we will be more sure of His help and without it we will never save our home."
SOON our vacant lot was fertilized, plowed, harrowed and leveled. Daddy worked longer each day than he had ever done before. He seemed ill at ease unless he was busy. Mother began to worry. He laughed at her fears and did all he could to reassure her. "I have been out of work for so long I'm getting heavy. I need to work my surplus weight off. I enjoy being out in this spring weather."
Father and Jim planted the early flowers and vegetables. By the time school was out, the garden needed all of Jim's time. Six days a week they worked. Daddy never refused a cash job so Jim was sometimes left alone—but every day, no matter where he was to work, daddy was up at daybreak and out in the garden, planting, weeding or thinning.
JIM enjoyed carrying the earliest vegetables to market each morning. They sold quite well as their's was the first locally raised produce. After every chance of sale had been tried, they gave the balance to those in need. The ground so cleared was fertilized again and replanted. Lyman Scott tried to tease them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You act as though both time and space were invaluable. You work from daylight until dark and you've even covered the fences." Jim was quite proud of the many vines creeping over the old boards on one side and the sweet peas covering the wire netting on the other. However, the work was tiresome. Usually, Jim dropped off to sleep right after supper but always he remembered to ask God to save their home for his mother's sake.
WHEN the early summer vegetables were ready, sales were not so easily made. Jim was almost ready to give up when Aunt Julia became ill. Mother insisted on going over to be near her. Jim called for her that evening. There was a smile on mother's face but it was not the happy one she wore at home. She was pale and a big blue bruise showed plainly upon her forehead. Jim asked, "What's the matter with your head?" Aunt Julia answered, "I forgot to tell her that I had placed the dresser where my cedar chest used to be. She bumped her head when she tried to find some linen for me."
"It's nothing to worry about," mother assured her. Outside Jim questioned her again. "How did you get that scar on your arm?"
"From Julia's electric toaster. I tried to be useful." The sob in her voice scared Jim. When they reached home. Mother said, "You can't realize how much I love our home." Jim made a silent vow to go on working no matter how discouraged he felt. Mother should not lose her home through his negligence. He asked God to make the garden a success. And He surely did bless that special bit of earth. The yield was SOLD FOR TAXES prodigious, the growth most luxurious.
JIM enjoyed digging, picking and bunching vegetables for market. But when, night after night, he came back from canvassing the town to report that almost every family had a garden of their own and needed no more, it seemed impossible to keep up courage. They canned a great supply and gave bushels away.
MORE flowers were beginning to blossom. Great masses of color in the most effective settings made a beautiful picture. Passers-by stopped to admire and many words of praise came to Jim's ears. Yet he wouldn't be comforted. "What's the good of a wonderful garden if there's no sale for the produce?" He wondered if prayers were of any avail. Father tried to cheer him. He explained that the reward comes only to those who work on in spite of obstacles or discouragement—to those whose faith is too strong to be destroyed by trials. That evening brought a gentle summer shower. In the morning, as the sun spread its beams everywhere, our garden was a scene of wondrous beauty. The leaves and vines were a brighter green, the many-hued flowers were more radiantly colored, the white blossoms were restored to virgin purity and over all were myriads of sparkling drops. Mother's planning had been very nearly perfect. When we tried to describe the loveliness to her, she cried with joy, "Now I know that you have worked faithfully."
JIM began to take more pride in creating beauty, forgetting his aim of mere material profit. He was especially glad when Senator Holbrook, Glendale's most famous son, 571 stopped to admire the arrangement and prolific growth. Mrs. Holbrook was even more enthusiastic in her praise. She bought several sprays of rain washed flowers. The statesman and his wife were visiting relatives and friends. Several times they stopped to talk and to buy. The last time they drove up in their big green car, the Senator praised Jim. "If you keep on doing such perfect work, young man, you will make a splendid mark in the world." Mrs. Holbrook's words brought more happiness to Jim. She said, "I have never enjoyed a visit to my old home town as much as I have this one, just because of your delightful garden." Jim cut a large bunch of the prettiest flowers for her. She insisted on paying him well. He was elated. The work was easier, now—more varied and interesting. The autumn fruits and vegetables sold quite readily, although the price was low. The flowers, true to mother's prediction, brought excellent profits and greater joy.
THEIR harvest ended the last of October. Jim stood patiently by while daddy balanced their accounts. The garden's beauty had vanished, so his thoughts now were on his original aim. "Is there enough for the taxes?" Eagerly he asked the question. Father hesitated, "No. It isn't enough." He saw the keen disappointment mirrored upon Jim's countenance. Although he was rather perplexed himself, he tried to reassure his son. "You really did wonderful work this summer, Jim. God will reward you in the best way. He knows better than we do what is good for us. Don't worry. There's a month left. I'll get a little cash as judge of election Tuesday." 572 Jim couldn't overcome the blues so easily, but, since actual earning was denied him, he tried to make up for it by praying. The election brought him no cheer as Senator Holbrook, who had been so kind to him, was defeated. Then as though they had not troubles enough, a strange, bold woman from Fairland came to their home and introduced herself. She said to his mother, "We're going to buy a home here in Glendale. So, when I heard this place was to be sold for taxes, I came to look it over." Jim clenched his hands in fury as a deep pallor overspread mother's face—but her sweet voice calmed him. "I hope it isn't for sale. I'm sure you can find another home you will like." After the woman left, mother sat in silence for a moment. Jim tried to speak consolingly but his words merely confirmed her fears. "They won't sell our home. We've got some tax money and we've worked and prayed all summer." His mother said, "Don't tell daddy about the woman coming here. He would be sorry." She went into her bedroom and closed the door. Soon he heard stifled sobs. He heard her prayer. "Heavenly Father, please do not let this home be taken from us. Nevertheless, Thy will be done, only grant me strength to go on no matter what must be." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Jim became frightened, "Daddy said if she found out about it she would get sick again." Father came around to the front of the house to rake up leaves. He called to Jim, who went out to help. "Why are you so sober?" Daddy asked. Jim didn't have time to answer before a big green car drove up and stopped. Senator Holbrook and his wife stepped out and came to the fence.
After greetings were exchanged, the senator said, "Ever since the election was over, Mrs. Holbrook has kept up a continual pleading for your garden lot on which to build us a home. I hope it is for sale." As in a dream, Jim heard father say, "We might sell it." Mrs. Holbrook spoke up, "Please do. We want to spend the remainder of our lives here with our old friends. You've proved that this is the very best lot in town. We'll give you a thousand dollars for it." A great weight seemed lifted from Jim's heart. He couldn't stand still. He heard his father say, "Yes, I will sell for that price." Into the house and on into mother's bedroom, Jim rushed. "Mama, they can't sell your house, now. We've got a thousand dollars. Senator Holbrook is buying the vacant lot. We'll get our taxes paid," he shouted. Mother stood quietly. Jim spoke more calmly and as reverently as such an excited boy could, "Mama, don't you think God has answered our prayers in the very best way?"