Creator of Opportunities BLANCHE KENDALL McKEy By LaRene King Bleecker Few of us have it. Those who do, achieve really remarkable success. They become the doers instead of the dreamers. Utah's well-known writer, Blanche Kendall McKey, has this rare gift of selectivity. She is able to appraise the worth while things of life. With the weapons of indomitable courage and a keen sense of humor, she has parried adversity and made of life a joyous adventure. In her scheme of living there are no dull moments, no sighing for things that might have been; no squandered time. MRS. McKEY'S life story is like an appealing book, its chapters teeming with human interest. In reviewing it, one wonders how so much vivid drama could be packed into one life. She has tasted the elixir of success before the footlights; heard the plaudits of admiring fans; associated with the great ones of the stage; she has known the ecstasy of a great love and the bitter grief of tragedy. Poet, play-wright, actress, wife, mother, teacher—she has yet found time to teach, encourage and advise young people, to be a good friend and neighbor, to produce and direct plays and pageants, to travel, to take part in church activities, and to study constantly at home and beyond her state. HER output of poems, plays and articles is prolific, in view of the fact that she writes only in her spare time. Approximately nine hours of every week-day is taken up with teaching English in the Ogden High School. Yet during the past year alone, her poems and articles have appeared in three national anthologies, in several magazines in the South and West, in The Improvement Era, and in The Relief Society Magazine. She won the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest for 1935 with her beautiful sonnet, "Autumn," and a cash prize in New York from the Avon House Publishers for two short lyrics, "Summer Heart" and "Symbols." She also won last summer with "Pioneer Candles," the pageant writing contest sponsored by the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers of Weber County. HE loves working with young people. A natural educator, she has faith in the integrity of our boys and girls. In training them, Mrs. McKey tries, first of all, to build character and to inspire them to become stronger and better. With remarkable insight, she senses that, "no pattern has ever been found to fit the individual need of youth. In some respects we are still in the 'trial and error' state as educators. With all our equipment, beautiful buildings, high scholarships, theories, concepts and ideals, we recognize a need for inspiration in the heart of adolescence, which we often fail to reach," Mrs. McKEY believes that the home is the greatest factor for building character. In her own home she has striven to make life so happy that her children would not regret the loss of the advantages she could not give them. CREATOR OF OPPORTUNITIES 565 BLANCHE KENDALL McKEY "I had to get my education while rearing my family," she explained, "and life was too strenuous—too much of a struggle to form any set rules. I held to the belief that God had intrusted me with a grave responsibility, and I had to keep faith." In addition to her two talented children, Richard and Eily, Mrs. McKey has one little grandson, Kay Kendall Pearson, who is "The singing joy" of her life. One day while the two were playing together, five-year-old Kay stopped suddenly in the midst of the game, gazed quizzically at his grownup playmate for a moment, and then said, "Gaum, you're quite the fellow!" With his childish discernment he had given voice to that certain naive quality which so endears Mrs. McKey to her students. Though she requires the very best they can give, yet, instinctively, they know that she is indeed, "quite the fellow." 566 BL ANCHE KENDALL McKEY, the sister of Kate Thomas, Senator Elbert D, Thomas, and R. Kendall Thomas was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, the daughter of Richard Kendall Thomas and Carrie Stockdale. Her father was a wellknown pioneer merchant. He helped choose the site of the University of Utah, and, with three other leading church members, chose the first furnishings of the Salt Lake Temple. Carrie S. Thomas was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society for many years. Coming to Utah at a very early age as converts from England, Blanche's parents were builders in whatever community or society they entered. Both were ardent lovers of the drama. S a child, Blanche showed decided tendencies toward the stage, as did other members of her family. Wishing to develop and encourage this talent, Mr. Thomas turned one of his barns into a little theatre, converting the hayloft into a balcony. The stage had three sets of scenery and real footlights. Many of the plays presented in the "little theatre'" were written by Blanche, the leading roles of which she, herself, assumed. Naturally possessed of a wealth of emotion, the child's talent blossomed in her high school days when, under the direction of Professor Maud May Babcock, she appeared with pronounced success in several school dramas. A year or two later this achievement was repeated in the East on the professional stage, where she found favor with New York managers. She appeared in dramatic "bits" with Sir Henry Irving and Richard Mansfield, and portrayed the roles of Annie in the "Bonnie Briar Bush," with L. H. Stoddart, Tirzah in "Ben Hur," and Hope Bower in "Eben Holden." She crossed the continent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with Charles B. Hanford in Shakespearian repertoire. It was during this engagement that she appeared in the Salt Lake Theatre as Jessica in "The Merchant of Venice," to a more than capacity house, for hundreds of her school friends turned out to greet her. The Deseret News of that time carried a picture of Blanche Kendall under the caption, "She was a sweet and gentle Jessica." Today, if one were to describe her as she is—so youthful for her years, so gentle and charming—a more fitting caption could not be given—than that of a "sweet and gentle Jessica." It was during her engagement with, "Eben Holden" that the gifted Utah girl met her future husband, William Richard McKey, who was appearing in the title role. Mr. McKey was a southerner, a man of established reputation as a character actor. They were married at the Mission House in New York City by President John McQuarrie; and two weeks later, Mr. McKey was baptized into the Mormon Church. From the first day of their meeting, "Dick" McKey's experience and knowledge of the world shielded Blanche from influences that might have destroyed her delicacy. Upon her departure for Salt Lake City before the birth of her second child, he said to her: "Different women have different kinds of charm. Your's lies in your viewpoint. Never let anything come into your life that might change it." Although motherhood changed Blanche's life completely, and after a year or two, she was faced with the colossal task of providing for herself and two children, she strained to hold on to her outlook on life, which was one of freshness, of good fellowship, of belief in the nearness of Divinity. Mr. McKey died suddenly in New York City of a heart attack. CREATOR OF OPPORTUNITIES IN a small way, there were opportunities in the West for Blanche McKey to continue her stage career, and she made a few attempts. But the thought of her children was always tugging at her heart strings, and she decided to give her life to teaching, that she might have her little ones near. Her career as an instructor includes one year at Oneida Academy, five years at Weber College, three at Ricks College in Idaho, and nine at the Ogden High School. As a teacher of Speech she produced many artistic plays and pageants, some of which made a great deal of money for one public fund or another. A number of these offerings were of her own composition. "THREE times Mrs. McKey won Drama League State contests with original plays. In 1926 she won the M. I. A. Jubilee Prize contest with "The Unequal Yoke," and in 1930 her play, "The Redemption of Johnnie Average" was awarded first place in the National Educational 567 Thrift Service contest for high school plays. She is now under contract with the Wetmore Declamation Bureau, having recently sold them a long narrative poem, "The Ballad of Herbie Shaughnessy's Wings." Mrs. McKey is a member of the American Association of University women, having been graduated from the University of Utah with a Master's degree in 1928. She is a member of the Chi Delta Phi, national literary sorority, and belongs to the National League of American Pen Women. It is as a poet, perhaps, that Mrs. McKey's admirers know her best. She has a natural ear for rhythm and form. Her lyrics have a wistful quality, an emotional appeal which reveals great depth of feeling. In view of the excellent poetry she writes, it is somewhat surprising that she, herself, prefers drama. But it is in drama that she sees a greater vehicle of expression. Her dream is that she may one day retire and devote her entire working time to writing.
THE FOOL HAS SAID THERE IS NO GOD By Miriam C. Bitner
As I sit in my chair near the window Watching the snow flakes fall, I think of our Heavenly Father Who ruleth over all.
I see His wondrous handiwork In this beautiful world of ours, In the breeze that sways the tree tops, In the snow and the springtime showers.
In the fruit of the field and orchard, In the beautiful birds that sing, In the tempest that rages in winter, And the flowers that bloom in the spring,
In the buzzing bee in the clover Where it gathers honey sweet, The beautiful golden sunshine That makes the earth complete.
Why man should doubt his Creator I cannot understand, For everything in the universe Bears the print of His loving hand.