[WomansExponent | Vol16 | 1887 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: those who are so anxious to abolish all govern-]

﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SINCE the last issue of the paper the Legislature
of the Territory has assembled, organized and
commenced the important work of law-making
and so forth. As this is the first session since the
passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill, its doings
will be severely scrutinized and commented upon
by those who are so anxious to abolish all govern-
ment by the people who have made the Territory,
and have taken care of its interests for forty years.
The Governor’s message to the Legislature has
been commented upon in another column by Aunt
Ruth, with whose views upon the subject we per-
fectly agree.	
	PRES. M. ISABELLA HORNE returned on Satur-
day evening, Jan. 14, from a visit of about three
months to relatives and friends in California and
Arizona. While in Arizona she attended several
meetings of the Relief Society and other Associa-

[Column 2]
tions, and gives a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that Territory. Pres. Horne, is much
pleased to be at home again, though she enjoyed
and appreciated her visit. We expect she will
furnish us with some incidents of her journey for
the paper, and we feel sure the sisters here and in
other parts of the Territory and elsewhere, will be
gratified with an account of her trip West and
South.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D., who has been
absent from home seven months, returned on the
14th inst., having traveled from Pueblo in company
with Bro. and Sister Horne. Dr. Shipp spent the
first three months of her absence in New York,
and the remainder of the time in Philadelphia; in
the latter place she devoted her time and attention
to gaining special knowledge in improved methods
of surgery and hospital work, for which she had
excellent opportunity. Previous to leaving the
Medical College in Philadelphia, she was invited
to speak to the ladies there upon the subject of
"Mormonism,” which invitation she accepted,
and spoke to a large and intelligent audience. We
feel sure Dr. Shipp would arouse the interest of
her hearers and allay prejudice, if any existed, as
she has a modest, unassuming manner, a sweet
and pleasing address, and a sincerity and earnest-
ness which must impress an audience favorably
at least. Dr. Shipp returned home feeling well
and strong in the faith of the Gospel, rejoicing in
having opportunities of bearing testimony to the
truth. For the present her office will be at her
residence, No. 34, 7th East St.
	WE ought to have acknowledged, ere this the
circulars of the Brigham Young Academy, giving
“an insight into its numerous departments,” from
the Utah Enquirer, Jan. 3, 1888. It contains much
correct information of the modus operandi of this
noble institution, which has already accomplished
so much for the benefit of the young people of
Zion. Its Theology is strictly in conformity with
the principles of the Latter-day Saints and the
general organization of the Church. The instruc-
tion upon theological subjects “are classified ac-
cording to the Catechism, Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and Compendium. There
is a complete domestic organization, which is
highly spoken of by the students, and must be
very satisfactory to parents. There are Primary,
Preparatory and Intermediate departments for the
practical training of pupils in all branches, with a
view to a higher course. Some of the special
branches are Physical Geography, Civil Govern-
ment, U.S. and General History. Drawing, Ladies
Work, Penmanship, Music, Language Course,
Business Course, Commercial Arithmetic, Com-
mercial Law, Assaying, Quantitative Analysis,
Biology, Zoology and Descriptive Astronomy.
Great attention is given to the Normal Depart-
ment of this Academy. The normal students are
divided into a senior and junior class, the whole
course covering a period of two years. There
is excellent opportunity given to this class of
students. This school should receive the influence
and patronage of the Latter-day Saints, as also
all schools of this character, if it is expected that
the children of Zion will fulfill the expectations of
the parents in the development of all that is
noblest, best, highest, purest and truest in the
various departments of learning, and remain stead-
fast in the things of the kingdom of God. Prof.
Karl G. Maeser has been untiring and unflinching
in the work he undertook in the establishment of
this most excellent enterprise. That he has not
always had the support necessary to perfect and
perpetuate the institution according to his ideas
and plan, has been very apparent, but from this
time we sincerely hope and trust there may be a
renewal of interest and effort combined, that will
build up more completely and foster this educa-
tional institution for the accomplishment of its
noble mission and the good of all Israel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
