[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: AUTOBIOGRAPHY. | Author: PHEBE Y. BEATIE,]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
	I do not expect to write one tenth of my
experience but merely to give an outline of
some of the incidents in my life’s history, it
is impossible for me to give exact dates as
I never kept a memorandum, therefore I
could not make a complete history.
	I was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York State, of good-
ly parents, Aaron Alexander and Betsy Alex-
ander, on the 14th of May, 1816. My father
died when I was four years old; he left my
mother in comfortable circumstances with
a small farm; she had four small children,
the eldest but six years old. Mother felt
that she could not take care of the farm and
sold the place and was to receive the money
for it, the man that bought it failed, in busi-
ness and never paid her, consequently it left
her destitute and she had to put out her
three oldest children. I was the second
child; it fell to my lot to go to my grand-
father on mother’s side, to live in Herkimer
Co., 100 miles from mother. I was now five
years old; my uncles and aunts were all
grown and most of them married and gone
away. I was quite a favorite in the family
and kept in school most of the time, but as
grew up I learned to spin flax and wool,
and also to weave cloth in the summer, and
then go to school in the winter; when I was
thirteen years old, there was quite a revival
in the town among the Methodists; I had
been trained always to go to their church
and Sunday school in which I took great
delight, for I had a religious turn of mind,
and when this reformation broke out I felt
as though I wanted to get religion and be
happy as others seemed to be. I tried to
get that change of heart and would go off


[Column 1]
alone by myself and take the Bible and read
and pray but I could feel no different, so I
never joined their church; when I was fifteen
years of age my mother came to see me and
stayed one year; I became so much attached
to her that I could not bear the idea of be-
ing separated from her again; when she was
preparing to leave I told her I wanted to go
with her; she finally consented. I knew I
was leaving a good home where I had been
kindly cared for, and knew too that mother
had no home of her own; still I had a great
anxiety to go and take the change of a home.
I was going to school at the time, I bade the
school and my friends good-bye and went
with my mother. When we arrived at Jef-
ferson Co. I was again placed in school for
the winter, in the spring I was offered a
school to teach but I declined; I thought I
was too young being only sixteen years old;
so I went to live with Abram Tracy’s family,
his wife was my mother’s cousin; while there
I became acquainted with his brother Moses
Tracy, an attachment sprung up between
us and on the 15th day of July we were
married; this was in the year 1832. My
husband then took me home to his father’s
to live until we could get a home of our
own; in the fall we went to house-keeping,
the winter passed off very pleasantly with
us; and in the spring of 1833 there was quite
a sensation created by a new set of minis-
ters that came around preaching, called
Mormonism; we heard all sorts of stories
and did not know what to think of them,
such frightful stories were told; at length we
heard of an appointment, that one David
W. Patten was going to preach about two
miles from where we lived a curiosity seized
me and I felt I must go and hear him; so
three of us went together. Ensign Tracy’s
wife Lydia, Margaret Minor, and myself: and
to our astonishment beheld a tall stately
looking man with piercing black eyes; he
arose and gave out a hymn we expected to
see some one hardly in human form; from
what we had heard, but instead I could at a
glance see the noble spirit he possessed
beaming in his countenance; and when he
began to speak it was with such force and
power before he was half through I could
have borne my testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the doctrine he was preaching;
never before had I heard the true Gospel as
the Savior and his Apostles had taught it
while they were on the earth; but this man
had now given us a pure Gospel sermon and
I believed it with all my heart, and would
have gladly gone down into the waters of
baptism, but I wanted my husband to hear
it first, and come along with me; these
Elders preached often in the neighborhood
and many became convinced of the truth of
the Gospel and were baptized and finally
quite a large branch of the Church was
organized in the town of Ellisburgh. My
husband did not seem to believe as readily
as I would have liked, but still I believed
when he would give himself up to investi-
gate the Gospel he would embrace it for I
knew he was honest of heart.
	November the 25th, 1833, our first son
was born and for a long time I lay as it were
at death’s door; the presiding Elder of the
branch use to come to our house and would
talk about the Gospel and its ordinances,
and I felt a great desire to be administered
to, but I was surrounded by unbelievers, and
had not obeyed the ordinance of baptism, as
had felt constrained to do and felt that I
was unworthy to ask for the blessing but I
determined if the Lord would let me live to
go forth in the discharge of what I knew was

[Column 2]
my duty; in the spring my husband seemed
to take hold and commenced going to meet-
ing and studying the Bible and finally to my
great satisfaction said he was ready to be
baptized. I had measurably regained my
health and on the 10th day of May, 1834,
we were both baptized by Elder Thomas
Dutcher.
	At that early day the opposite power was
at work filling the minds of the people with
prejudice the pulpit and press had com-
menced a tirade against the Mormons and
my relatives thought I had brought a great
stain upon myself and them in embracing
such a delusion, as they called it; they
would send me the papers of the day with
the most vile slander and falsehoods to see
if they could not reclaim me; but I was not
moved; I felt humble and felt to thank God
that my soul was at last satisfied, thus far;
that I had embraced truth instead of error
and it was marvelous to me how I had es-
caped while in tender years of uniting with
some of the religions of the day, I was
brought up so strictly amongst them I felt
to acknowledge the hand of God that I had
been preserved with my heart pure to listen
to the voice of the good Shepherd. The Gos-
pel spread and a good many large branches
were organized through Jefferson Co. and
adjoining counties; the gifts and blessings
of the Gospel were poured out upon those
that had embraced it in rich profusion. One
instance which I will relate that came di-
rectly under my observation of the gift of
healing.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of see
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of t[-]ose coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay

[Column 2]
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage.
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes, where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
lies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen'l Sec'y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
Gen'l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.


