[Vol6 | October 1919 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Home Courses - Thrift in the Home]

Lesson IV - Home Courses - Thrift in the Home
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in November. Thrift in the Home. One of the most important lessons learned by American women during the recent world war is the value of thrift in household management. In spite of their loyalty during the war, however, the American woman has yet much to learn about habits of thrift. Perhaps in no other one thing has she erred to the extent that she has in extravagance and general wastefulness. She lives in a country where it is comparatively easy to earn money and as a result, spends it without thought. To correct the habits of thoughtless expenditure, becomes now the home problem in the period of reconstruction. The United States Government has learned so thoroughly the great importance of the cooperation of the women that it has asked that steps be taken through the government agents, to assist the homemakers of the country to place the income and expenditures of the home on a business basis. It is hoped thus to establish thrift habits. Political economists hold that women control the expenditure of nine-tenths of all the money earned. It is also said that, because of our unbusiness-like methods, millions of dollars are wasted annually. It is an established fact that a business that is not well organized and managed according to business principles will fail. Now, it must be so likewise with the business of the home. If women control the expenditure of nine-tenths of all the money earned, it must be conceded that her responsibility is tremendous. Her business cannot be carried on in an indifferent, careless manner and meet other than failure. Business men all over the world know that foresight, system, the following of a budget, and the keeping of accurate accounts, make for success. Thrifty housewives also know from experience that the same principles hold for success in the business of the home. Hence the necessity for every household's making a budget and keeping a simple yet accurate system of household accounts, no matter what the income may be. If this is done it will help in eliminating work and anxiety and will make possible a saving of time and money. In this unusual time, when incomes are by no means increasing in proportion to the cost of living, and when there are so many de- mands on money that no income seems large enough to meet them, the housewife must adopt business methods in spending the income if she is to succeed in her chosen work and do her part in the reconstruction of the world. The object of the budget is to establish a working method of conservation of materials. At the same time the saving of health and energy must be emphasized by teaching the principle that "economy no more means saving money than it means spending money. It means administration of the house, its stewardship, spending or saving, whether money, time or anything else, to the best possible advantage." The handling of the income has in many families been the cause of serious misunderstandings. Young people starting out in life have no definite plans for the disbursement of the family funds. Too often they go into debt, expenses pile up, the funds are exhausted, and all is chaos. A plan for handling the money might have saved the situation. Such a plan is a budget. A budget is a planning in advance of expenditures in proportion to the income. In far too many households this is a mystery; expenditures are not planned ? they just happen. We have fat days and lean days, days of plenty and days of want. Christmas and holiday expenditures, sickness, accidents, and misfortune, lessen the days of plenty and add to the general worry of the family with a limited income. A budget planned under ideal conditions would find the father and mother and the children gathered around the table. The total income of the family would be determined. Then by mutual consent, they would make the general division of the income, and prepare the budget. There can be no fixed classification of household expenditures any more than there is a fixed standard of living for everyone. What seemed to be luxuries in the homes of our grandmothers are necessaries of the present generation. It is certain that in America standards of living are constantly rising. However, in dividing the income the first consideration is the food for the family. No matter what the income, the family must at least have sufficient food to meet the needs of the body. It is true economy to purchase foods that will keep the body well and in repair, and furnish it with energy with which it may do its work. An electric or gas engine will stop work as soon as it is out of repair or the source of energy is shut off. The human body also must be nourished and kept in repair and supplied with energy. While there are many ways in which one can economize in furnishing food for the family, one must not economize to a fault. So the first division of the income must be an adequate allowance for food. On very limited incomes say one hundred dollars a month for a model family of father, mother and three chil- dren under fourteen years of age, the amount required would range from forty to fifty per cent, according to the present day prices. This amounts to one-dollar sixty cents daily or an average of ten and two thirds cents per meal. This amount will allow only for the necessaries of nutrition. There are no luxuries, no foods out of season, and only a very limited variety. The next consideration is shelter. According to some standards, a good home with furnishings beyond one's income would seem to add more to the family comfort than perhaps a more liberal food allowance. Such a family would economize to a fault in their food, and perhaps in their clothing, in order to secure a more attractive home. The safest division would allow from fifteen to eighteen per cent of the income for shelter. In cases where the family is buying a home the monthly payments may in safety reach twenty-five per cent of the income. The third division of the budget would be an amount set aside for clothing. It has been determined that fifteen per cent of the income almost invariably meets the needs of the clothing budget. This department of household expenditure offers many opportunities for economy. Many thrifty homemakers manage this department nicely on ten per cent of the income. Careful buying, remodeling, renovating old materials, and proper care of clothing afford many opportunities for cutting down expense. On the other hand, attempting to follow the prevailing fashions, gives no end of trouble to the family of limited income. The fourth division of the budget concerns the operating expenses. Operating expenses should be held down to from ten to twenty per cent of the income. Fuel, light, telephone and wages must all come out of this division. In many cases it will eliminate everything but light and fuel. It would be well, however, if a greater effort were made to keep ice during the warm months as it is a real economy in that it is a means of preserving food and making it possible to keep milk on hand for the children. In my home visits during the summer, I have found the majority of families using condensed milk because they had no ice. A division for incidentals must also be provided in the budget, since every family must meet the unexpected. In this division we place doctors', dentists' and oculists' bills; gifts such as Christmas, wedding, or birthday, lawyers' fees, and other unclassified expenses. This amount should if possible be held down to from five to ten per cent. The sixth division is that of the so-called Higher Life. Higher Life expenditure includes money spent for education, books, magazines, music, Church, charities, and amusements. The amount is usually out of necessity kept down from ten to fifteen per cent. Typical Budgets follow: Income $100.00. Food 40 or $40 Rent 20 or 20 Clothing 15 or 15 Operating 10 or 10 Incidental 10 or 10 Higher Life.... 5 or 5 Income $150.00 Food 30 or $45.00 Rent 15 or 22.50 Clothing 15 or 22.50 Operating 15 or 22.50 Incidental 10 or 15.00 Higher Life 15 or 22.50 Neither of these budgets has a special heading for savings, but every well organized home will lay up for a rainy day. It may be a few cents saved from the food budget, or the clothing budget, or some one of the other departments. While it is impossible to say that a family income will permit of any stipulated amounts being set aside as savings each month, it is absolutely necessary that every family save. It may be through a building society, an endowment insurance policy, war savings stamps, or liberty bonds. Questions. Who are the chief money-spenders in the home? What is the budget system? What would you call necessities? What are luxuries? How do you divide your income? What proportion should be spent for food? For clothing? For tithing and donations, For amusements? What is thrift? Globe Optical Company SALT