Motto—Charity Never Faileth


Vol. XXVI FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 2
EDITORIAL
Advertising Influence
Among the many influences which affect the behavior of people today perhaps none is more potent than modern advertising. We buy this brand of foodstuffs, that make of car, we go to see this particular entertainment and read that certain book, because consciously or unconsciously we have been affected by the advertising of these special things. Modern advertising has become a great and important part of American life, drawing to it the most talented and well trained individuals of our day, men and women cognizant of its power to mould opinion and influence conduct. The advertising mediums of our day are many and varied: the newspaper, the screen, billboards, magazines, radio, electric signs?all educational mediums, far reaching, up-to-date, and well financed. What person planning a purchase does not look at the ads in his morning paper? What person does not give attention to the attractively prepared ads in his magazines? Who is not conscious of the sponsor and the product behind his favorite radio program? The very best in music, art, drama, education, the most sparkling wit, and entertaining comedy come to us through the medium of advertising. With ears tuned to popular trends, fads, and interests the advertiser is alert effectively to capitalize upon these to influence the public to use his special product or commodity. Catch phrases, theme songs, slogans, easily remembered and pointed in meaning, unconsciously and without effort stay with the hearer identified with the item advertised, and definitely influence his attitudes and conduct.
Advertising has great constructive power; that it should be used detrimentally is regrettable. Yet every day it is being used to further commercial interests by popularizing products injurious to our young manhood and womanhood. Too often before the youth of our nation ads, striking in attractiveness, present in an enticing and convincing w