Vol. XXVI FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 2
EDITORIAL
Advertising Influence
Among the many influences which affect the behavior of people today perhaps none is more potent than modern advertising. We buy this brand of foodstuffs, that make of car, we go to see this particular entertainment and read that certain book, because consciously or unconsciously we have been affected by the advertising of these special things. Modern advertising has become a great and important part of American life, drawing to it the most talented and well trained individuals of our day, men and women cognizant of its power to mould opinion and influence conduct. The advertising mediums of our day are many and varied: the newspaper, the screen, billboards, magazines, radio, electric signs?all educational mediums, far reaching, up-to-date, and well financed. What person planning a purchase does not look at the ads in his morning paper? What person does not give attention to the attractively prepared ads in his magazines? Who is not conscious of the sponsor and the product behind his favorite radio program? The very best in music, art, drama, education, the most sparkling wit, and entertaining comedy come to us through the medium of advertising. With ears tuned to popular trends, fads, and interests the advertiser is alert effectively to capitalize upon these to influence the public to use his special product or commodity. Catch phrases, theme songs, slogans, easily remembered and pointed in meaning, unconsciously and without effort stay with the hearer identified with the item advertised, and definitely influence his attitudes and conduct.
Advertising has great constructive power; that it should be used detrimentally is regrettable. Yet every day it is being used to further commercial interests by popularizing products injurious to our young manhood and womanhood. Too often before the youth of our nation ads, striking in attractiveness, present in an enticing and convincing way the benefits, the pleasures, and the satisfactions of using this or that brand of tobacco or liquor. That these ads accomplish their purpose is proven by the marked increase in the use of liquor and tobacco by both men and women, and by the fact that constantly increasing millions are being spent to advertise these commodities. Advertisers are keen business men, and unless the millions spent were increasing sales, they would discontinue such expenditures. Each sale increase means increased use of those things which science and the word of God have said are not good for us.
Much advertising is of such a nature that one scarcely realizes that tobacco and liquor are being advertised. A recent broadcast capitalized upon the popular interest in adequate dietary requirements of youth, intimating that tobacco treated in a certain manner contained elements essential to health. A magazine advertisement pictured a doctor of medicine, in the attitude of consultation, prescribing tobacco for a young woman, as a step toward happiness, with health implied. This shrewd advertisement implicated the medical profession in its scheme to induce young people to form the tobacco habit.
There are many excellent federal and state regulations aiming to control advertising evils, to insure the presentation of true statements, and to protect the consumer. But that these need to be extended and rigidly enforced with regard to the sister evils of tobacco and liquor, there is not the slightest doubt. The power of money behind these evils, however, makes improved legislation difficult. A few of the laws of the State of Utah with regard to liquor advertising are of interest:
"(b) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall suggest the absence of harmful effect, or the presence of healthful or therapeutic effect, resulting from the use thereof.
"(c) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall include, be connected with, or make any reference to the conducting of any form of contest, or the awarding of prizes, premiums or considerations, or refer to any testimonial, or scientific test, proving the absence of harmful effect or the presence of healthful or therapeutic effect of the products so advertised.
"(d) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall include the likeness or caricature of a woman, child, or a family scene; an illustration of men drinking; an illustration of groups of men that might be interpreted as drinking scenes; an illustration of anything which might be interpreted as having any association with children, particularly children's pets, nor any illustration of fruits or agricultural products, unless such illustrations be a part of a trade-mark or label already in use, in which case a replica of the entire trade-mark or label only, shall be permitted.
"(f) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall contain any reference to any person, firm or corporation, real or fictitious, as one who recommends, uses, or purchases such product.
"(k) No advertisement of alcoholic beverages including light beer shall be displayed upon the screen of any theatre.
"(l) No advertisement of alcoholic beverages including light beer shall be made by or through the sale or distribution of novelties such as matches, score cards, lighters, blotters, post cards, calling cards, business or professional cards, menu cards, pencils, coasters, meal checks, napkins, clocks, calendars or similar articles or cocktail recipes or any other recipes or formulas for the use of such products. Any mention of brand name, code number or sale price shall be considered a violation of this section."
Excellent as the laws of Utah are in this regard they do not control periodicals published in other states.
Public opinion concerning the use of liquor tends to sway back and forth. At one time people were aroused to such an extent that prohibition on a national scale was accomplished. At first it looked as though it would succeed, but before long public opinion swayed in the other direction resulting in repeal. With repeal the liquor interests began to advertise. More people than could possibly make a living stepped into the industry; then a bold attempt was made to step up consumption. Now the pendulum of public opinion is swinging toward limitation and greater regulation. Cognizant of this the liquor interests have changed their method of approach, attempting to meet the rising tide of indignation with regard to excessive use of liquor by pacifying and lulling into inaction all who favor temperance or abstinence by apparently shouldering arms in the interest of temperance. One of the cleverest and most subtle attempts calculated to advertise the interests of a certain company along this particular plan was the national tour made by a famous "hero of youth," who gave lectures in the interest of temperance, recommending only limited drinking. The name of the company sponsoring the tour and its commodity was thus favorably kept before the public. Much advertising follows this plan. By indicating an interest in temperance, attention is cunningly attracted and favor won for the company and its particular product.
That there are still certain periodicals and newspapers public spirited enough and genuinely interested in the development of a strong, clean citizenship to refuse to accept liquor ads in their publications is deeply appreciated by the Relief Society organization which represents 76,000 mothers. From a letter to our office from Walter D. Fuller, President of the Curtis Publishing Company, we quote: "We do not accept advertising of liquor in our publications." A full-page statement in the December, 1938, issue of the Ladies Home Journal outlines the attitude of this large and influential publishing company. The caption in bold type states, "Sorry, we prefer not to introduce him (liquor) to our guests." Further it states, "It is a common courtesy not to receive guests in your home who might embarrass other guests... Influence some of them to their detriment.... We will not try to influence you (our guests) by taking liquor advertising." Our local papers, the Deseret News, the Salt Lake Tribune, and the Salt Lake Telegram are to be highly complimented for taking the same stand. The refusal has undoubtedly cost these concerns many thousands of dollars in recent years. Our Relief Society Magazine accepts no advertising that is not strictly in keeping with Latter-day Saint standards. We urge our subscribers to exercise every effort to discountenance all advertising detrimental to human welfare, actively to support those organizations whose standards are our standards, and to protect our children in every possible way from the subtle and constantly increasing influences which we know undermine health and character.