MUSIC DEPARTMENT Hints for Studying the Conference Songs By Wade N. Stephens 1. "SANCTUS," Gounod THE chief difficulty in this song is to stay in pitch. The worst place begins at page seven, bottom line, measure two, and extends to page ten, top line, measure two, inclusive. Since all the rest of the piece is comparatively easy, it is best to begin each rehearsal on this piece with a study of this difficult part. In each phrase the trouble occurs on the word "glory". Each time one part holds the same note, while the other two move one half-step. In the first occurrence, the alto note holds; in the next two occurrences the middle part holds. 'each the singers first to hold these notes unwaveringly. 'Then proceed to the parts that move a half-step. When a part moves up a half-step, teach the singers to go a long way. When a part moves down a half-step, teach them to move only a short distance. This will correct the natural tendency of untrained singers to flat. These hard phrases can be learned only by working on each part alone. In the last two measures at the bottom of page eleven, where the words read "Glory be to," please change them to read "Glory, Glory to"'. 2. "BENEDICTUS," Gounod HIS piece is printed in the same leaflet as the "Sanctus". It is new to many of you. In teaching it, think of two things, which in effect are really one. First, teach your chorus to sing it in strict time. 'The beat must be slow but steady, and must continue so through the rests as well as the notes. Second, try for a straight tone, without any vibrato or waver, and sing softly throughout except for the last phrase, which must be very loud and jubilant, with a resonant tone. Notes for Masic Department QUESTIONS have been received at the general office as to the interpretation of the last lines of the chorus in our rallying song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong". The following suggestion may be helpful: Beginning with "heart and will to do," retard slightly to end of "grow," then resume tempo on last line. In the rendition of "The Lord's Prayer," by Gates, the words "forgive us our debts" and "as we forgive our debtors," are preferred over "our trespasses," etc., and are used more generally throughout the Church. E, would appreciate knowing soon just how many stakes are planning to participate with the Singing Mothers in April Conference. Will you kindly send this information?