CONTENTMENT By Evelyn Wilde Heath
Dawning and sunrise splendor, Another task begun; Noonday with light and beauty, Evening with work well done. Why should we wish for glory? Glory must be like this.
Darkening shades of night, Home with sweet contentment, Stars in a moon-bright Heaven, Memories and firelight; Heaven must be like this.
And over and over and over, Each day bringing well earned bliss Love and the joy of a kiss; Why should we wish for Heaven?
Gloaming and sunset hour, Heaven must be like this.

The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER ONE
Before old Philander Maddox would consent to come North and visit his son Tom and his family, he had to be assured that every last vestige of the old family mansion he himself had built in the first flush of his Alaska prosperity had been demolished. He had to know that the face of the estate had been changed entirely by the huge Georgian brick house and the expensive landscaping Tom had undertaken this last year. The place was finished now, and old Philander sat upon its western terrace facing a superb June sunset on Puget Sound, listening to the soothing and unimportant chatter of Tom's plump wife, Phoebe, and telling himself that if a man is to keep himself young in this rushing world he has to clear the decks of the old things every so often and surround himself with the new. And old Philander was convinced he had indeed hoodwinked Time with the clean sweep of the new house.
The lawns of Oakwood sloped in an almost unbroken expanse of beautiful sod to the beach, where it was separated from the public footpath by a hedge of shrubs. As old Phil gazed over the crimsoned water with his clear, hard, blue eyes, he sat suddenly upright and snorted. "There's that old pest Brill Carey coming along the path, Phoebe, or I'm a walrus," he grumbled, and attempted to get up. "I'm going in."
"But you can't, father," Phoebe protested, "she's coming to see you. She never calls on us any more. Anyway, she won't stay long. One thing about Miss Brill, she comes straight to the point."
Old Philander sat down again, arranging his long thin legs on the long chair and sitting tense as a stubborn child. "Confound it," he complained, "I wish she'd stay away. You can spend a fortune changing houses and furniture, and then she bobs up. It makes a man feel old to meet a woman in her dotage and have to remember he dandled her on his knee as a baby."
"But she isn't so old," Phoebe protested, "about fifty-five—though I'll admit she looks all of seventy."
Old Philander made impatient noises in his throat. "Wish she'd hurry up, get it over with—say, what the—" The old man scrambled nervously to his feet. "She's fallen!" cried Phoebe, and betook her plump self over the terrace and lawns with surprising speed, calling to two gardeners working near the greenhouse as she ran down the flagged path to the prone figure of Miss Brill.
The gardeners laid the thin woman on the long chair hastily vacated by old Phil, and it was only minutes before she opened her eyes and struggled to a sitting position. "Hello, Uncle Phil," she said confusedly, "you're looking right spry as usual." Mr. Maddox winced at the "uncle" and growled. "Why shouldn't I? I take good care of myself. Expect to live to be a hundred. But you won't live that long, my girl, unless you can learn to keep both feet on the ground."
"Lie down again, Miss Brill," Phoebe advised in her soft tones, "you struck a rock when you fell. You ought to rest a minute."
"I'm all right," Miss Brill muttered. "I'll rest when I get this business for my girl settled." She tucked a wisp of gray hair into place with a long hairpin and looked at old Phil over her high Roman nose. Old Phil fidgeted and looked vague. "Your girl?"
"Yes. My niece, Nellis Adair Carey," Miss Brill said. Old Philander chewed the end of his moustache furiously. "Fancy name her folks gave her," he said. Niece? Niece? Was there anything he did not know about his old friend Tom Carey's family?
"I gave her the name," Miss Brill answered. "Nobody knows what I suffered as a child with Brilliant Alaska Carey attached to me, just because my father happened to make a strike there. I wanted Nell to have a lovely name, Nellis Adair. And I want you to find a job for her."
Old Phil chuckled. "I remember Tom coming back with his gold jingling, finding you a big girl and still without a name, so he made it Brilliant Alaska. I like it." His face puckered. "Times are hard in San Francisco," he grumbled, "don't know as I have any jobs."
"You can find one, in one of those big office buildings of yours," Miss Brill insisted. "Nell is eighteen, she's bright, and she's talented. I want her to do something that will give her time to work on her painting."
"Painting!" Philander Maddox snorted. "So she paints, does she? If your father'd put his Alaska gold to work when he came down here, same's I did, instead of frittering away with his painting, maybe you wouldn't need a job for the girl. You'd much better teach her to cook."
"I have. She's a good cook," retorted Miss Brill, "but she paints, too. The way I could have done, if I hadn't let people talk me out of it." This last, resentfully.
"Tom Carey had sense there, at least," Mr. Maddox observed shrewdly, "he knew how to manage his womenfolks." As yet he had promised no job. He didn't know that he would. People presumed a good deal on an old friendship. Almost as if she had heard the thought, Miss Brill settled that notion with her next breath. "When father died, twenty years ago," she reminded him dryly, "I believe you offered to do anything you could for me. I've never asked for anything for myself. Now I want a job for Nell. Switchboard operator, or something like that. Nothing fancy."
"Of course," old Philander agreed hastily. Confound the woman, that offer had been made when she was younger and more appealing, and people thought Tom had left her plenty of money. He fidgeted about, blew his nose, then sent for some note paper. He scribbled a message on it to one of his building superintendents in behalf of one Nell Carey and handed it to the girl's aunt. Miss Brill examined it to see if it really meant anything, folded it and got shakily to her feet.
"You mustn't think of going yet," protested Phoebe, "or perhaps you'll let me send you back in the car."
"No," said Miss Brill, "I'll walk. Air'll do me good. Clear my head." She turned to Mr. Maddox. "You won't lose anything by this. You'll have the best switchboard girl you ever had, and the prettiest, too."
The scowl lifted from the petulant old face. "Pretty, is she?" He sat up suddenly. "Tell her to come and see me. I like pretty girls in my buildings. The tenants like sightly faces about 'em."
Miss Brill looked at old Philander coldly. "But she's got plenty of sense, too," she said shortly, nodded to Phoebe and stalked steadily enough across the flagstone terrace to the path through the shrubbery.
Behind the thicket of laurel was a stone bench. Suddenly Miss Brill crumpled upon it, breathing heavily. She was much shaken. It was a bitter thing, after twenty years of struggling by herself, to have to ask Phil Maddox for a favor—even for Nell. She took out her handkerchief and wiped the moisture from her upper lip. She took several deep breaths and felt better. She mustn't tell Nell she had asked old Philander for the job. The girl must think he had offered it. Nell wouldn't mind it, that way. No Carey ever asked favors.
Miss Brill took the note from her pocket and read it again. Sixty dollars a month that Barstow girl got at the Smith Building for the same work. Nell would be rich on sixty dollars—and the money in the chest. And Mary Cartwright, down in San Francisco, could find the girl a cheap, safe room. Miss Brill got up stiffly from the bench and continued down the path to the beach trail. Her leg dragged a bit. The doctor had said, that last time, that she'd have to avoid any excitement. Well, she wouldn't be asking for a job from Philander Maddox again in a hurry, and there was no excitement at the gray house. She had difficulty getting over the Maddox stile, but once on the sandy beach path she felt better. There were the huge driftwood logs to rest upon from time to time. Ahead of her, a haven, loomed the Carey house, foursquare, rising from the thicket of fir to three grim, gray stories of moldy grandeur topped by a once red-roofed cupola. Miss Brill left the path, went down into the ravine made by the spring on her property, crossed the cherry wood bridge Nell had built over the stream in the gloom of the fir thicket and gained her kitchen. She sat down heavily in the wooden rocker and closed her eyes. It was a long time before she felt able to open them again. Like a vague dream in the back of her mind was the picture of the Chinese chest. The chest in the upper hall! She shook her head impatiently and got up. Her weakness frightened her. What would Nell do if—anything should happen. Nothing on earth but the old house, and who would want that? Miss Brill winced before this fact, but she faced it. Passionately she loved the gray house. Its three uncompromising tiers of gray wood rising from the rocky beach she thought just as gor- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 83 geous, just as aristocratic as had old Tom Carey when he built it in the warm flush of his new Alaska money. A Carey family seat he had planned it to be, blue Puget Sound at its feet, acres of towering virgin Douglas fir guarding it on three sides. The Sound was there, and the old house, but the forest had dwindled to the few trees in the ravine, and of the Careys there remained but Miss Brill —and Nell. A grand place for Careys, but too near the water for ready sale. People liked their homes away from the water, on a rise of ground like the big Maddox place. Where the noise of the surf wouldn't disturb them on stormy nights, where the hoarse note of the foghorns wouldn't annoy them. Surf and foghorns! Miss Brill would die without these sounds of her youth, of her home. She fumbled in her pocket for the note. Of course! Nell wouldn't need to cling to the old place. She would have her job and her painting. Just a start was all Nell needed, Miss Brill thought vaguely. Nell ought to be here now, so she could tell her the news. She noticed a note on the table then and managed to grasp it without getting up. Fred, Nell wrote, had to go into town, so they were staying to a movie, if they could get the afternoon rates. Just like Fred, Miss Brill thought scornfully, rushing Nell off in the middle of the afternoon to save a dime on his courting. She found bread and butter, fresh strawberries and milk under the clean towel on the table. After she had eaten the simple meal she felt stronger. It was proving to be nothing at all, this weakness. It would soon go, soon leave her strong and independent again, leave Nell free. Suddenly Miss Brill bestirred herself, put on her old hat and raincoat, locked the kitchen door and started slowly up the road again. She needed air and might as well go up to Carsons at the big fruit farm for that job of linen-hemming while she was getting it. The linen-hemming for Mildred Carson's trousseau would buy Nell the dress she needed for traveling. It was two miles to Carson's, and the leg dragged just a bit more heavily, but Miss Brill promised herself she'd go slowly. "Air— work—money—" the tired woman mumbled to herself. TWILIGHT lingers in the Northwest. It was still vaguely light, in spite of the misty rain that had begun to fall, when Fred Nagle's small coupe threaded back along Cove toad. Nell Carey, rather silent, sat back in the seat beside Fred. He drove with nervous care, never quite easy at the wheel, but anxious to impress-the girl beside him with his mastery of all things material. "You're sure quiet," he protested. Deep in his heart he felt a girl had no right to help spend a fellow's money and then sit silent as a clam on the way home. Nell smiled. "Just thinking of that show, Fred. It was beautiful, wasn't it, where the girl went to her sweetheart and married him, even after he was blind." "What were they going to live on was what I'd like to know?" Fred objected. "Things aren't like that in real life." "Oh, Fred, you aren't one bit romantic, are you?" Nell said impatiently 84 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Say, stop a minute! That looked as if someone was lying beside the road back there." Fred reversed the car, and stopped beside a blackberry thicket. Sitting on the ground, leaning against an abandoned water pipe, was indeed a woman. Nell scrambled out of the car and ran to her. Even in the dim light she could recognize her. "Aunt Brill!" she cried, terrified, "whatever are you doing here?" Miss Brill murmured dazedly, "Oh, it's you, Nell. I just sat here by the fire and sort of dozed—why—" she lifted her hand helplessly to her head. "She's gone balmy,' bluntly. Nell hushed him angrily. "Of course not. Justa little dazed. Help her into the car. Maybe she hurt her head when she fell." As they struggled to get the woman into the little car, Nell saw the brown paper parcel. "Why, she's been way up to Carson's. No wonder she's all in. Aunt Brill, you need a good scolding. told you [I'd run up for that work in the morning." Miss Brill aroused herself briefly, embarrassed. "I—thought I was home. By the fire. I had to rest— just a bit." Then she burst out triumphantly, "Old Phil gave you a job, Honey. A good job, down in San Francisco." For a moment Nell was speechless, holding tightly to Miss Brill's lax hand. "A job in San Francisco! You can't mean it, Aunt Brill. Fred, did you hear that? I'm going to art school. Now! This summer!" Fred stepped viciously on the gas. "Craziest notion I ever heard of Fred said What a girl like you, with a chance to get married, wants to go to art school for!" He turned angrily on Miss Brill. "That's your notion, Miss Brill. Nellie never would have thought of it by herself." Nell laughed. "Thanks, Fred, but it was as much my idea as hers. | don't want to get married yet. I'm too young, and I've never seen anything, never been anywhere." Miss Brill sat back, grimly pleased. That'd teach Fred Nagle. He wasn't worth Nell, or anything like it, him with his head full of nothing on earth but his coop full of prize chickens and more money to put in the bank. She wished she did not feel so dizzy, and she'd enjoy this triumph more. As it was— 7 "FRAID you'll have to help me out," she muttered as Fred brought the car to a petulant stop in the Carey driveway. "Don't stay tonight," Nell whispered to the fierce-browed young man as they settled the woman in the rocker near the kitchen range, "Aunt Brill isn't well." "You mean you don't want me to interfere with your talk about that pesky art school business," Fred retorted, lifting the lid of the stove and shoving in a couple of lengths of split pine. "Well, I'll go, but you haven't heard it all from me yet. A promise is a promise, and I have a few rights. I think we ought to go on as we planned." "As you planned," Nell corrected him softly. "Good-night, Fred, and thanks for the movie." He nodded sullenly and went out.