Items of Interest
NEW BOOKS
Priesthood And Church Welfare
This is a new book published by the Deseret Book Company. It is a study course for the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood for the year 1939, prepared under the direction of the Council of the Twelve by Dr. George Stewart, Dr. Dilworth Walker, and E. Cecil McGavin. It has been prefaced by Rudger Clawson, President of the Council of the Twelve, and from that preface we quote:
"The Latter-day Saints' Welfare Plan, divinely inspired, is now under way?in the wards, stakes and missions of the Church. The rate of its progress will depend to a large degree upon the actual support given it by the Quorums of the Priesthood. It seemed wise, therefore, to devote the quorum class periods for one year to a consideration of the meaning, problems and opportunities of the Plan....
"The fact that several authors, with different styles of treatment, have presented the main phases of the subject, should make this study course more interesting.
"The Priesthood should be acquainted with the material contained in this study course. It has permanent value, and the volume could profitably be found in every Latter-day Saint library. It is earnestly hoped that the labors here presented may be acceptable to the Lord and useful to the body of the Priesthood.
"May the blessings of the Lord rest upon the Priesthood of Latter-day Israel."
The Welfare Plan, its organization and functions, are all very clearly explained, and it contains lessons on such subjects as: "The Power Of Self-Help", "The Strength Of Cooperation", "Thrift", "The Bondage Of Debt", "Our Natural Resources," "Making Old Things New" and "Temporal Salvation". In addition to the above lessons there are many others of equal interest and importance which can help us and our families to establish ourselves as independent, self-sustaining, happy members of a cooperative community made up of our own ward or branch members.
The Life Of Joseph F. Smith
"The Life Of Joseph F. Smith", a new book compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, and distributed by the Deseret Book Company, is of interest to Latter-day Saints. This book is not only a biography of a man great from every point of view but covers a period of Church history when the opinion of the world was in transition from misunderstanding and blind hatred of the Church and its teachings to one of understanding and admiration. It reveals the place of President Joseph F. Smith in helping to bring about this transition through his manifest greatness and goodness of character and his unusual leadership abilities. Much light is thrown on Church doctrine through a recording of many of the words of this remarkably spiritual man. Of particular value is the official statement, "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the World," recorded in the latter part of the book. The fore part of the book deals with the ancestry of Joseph F. Smith and furnishes an interesting and comprehensive background for an understanding of his character. In the "Introduction" the following statement is of interest to mothers:
"The impression made upon his soul through the humble and unwavering fidelity of his mother to the cause of truth, became a sure and safe anchor to his soul through all the trials and vicissitudes of his eventful life. Well could he say: 'Nothing beneath the Celestial Kingdom can surpass my deathless love for the sweet, noble soul who gave me birth?my own, own, mother. She was true! She was pure! She was indeed a Saint; a royal daughter of God! To her I owe my very existence as also my success in life, coupled with the favor and mercy of God.'"
The book, prepared primarily for the benefit of the descendants of President Joseph F. Smith, presents him not only as a great religious leader but as a genuinely good husband and father. The careful attention to accuracy of detail, characteristic of other writings of the author, also characterize this new book. "The Life of Joseph F. Smith" is interesting and profitable reading for any one.