Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund
California Mission
One of the musical features of the October Conference was the 200 voices of the Singing Mothers from the California Mission. Five numbers were rendered at the first General Secretary and the Mission Relief Society President, who traveled through the entire Mission from Southern Arizona to the northernmost woods of the Sierras of California. These groups assembled in one chorus for the first public session, Wednesday afternoon, October 5th.
"Gathered from all parts of the Mission, with but two brief rehearsals, they were quickly welded into an harmonious chorus by the dynamic leadership of Evangeline Thomas Beesley, with Tabernacle organist Wade N. Stephens at the organ.
"These Singing Mothers had been organized into groups and trained by Nelle Lesueur MacDonald time when they reached Salt Lake, bringing to Zion the spirit of the mission field.
"Throughout the summer, these groups held dinners and parties to raise money to meet the expenses of the trip to Conference. Many stirring stories could be told of their efforts, sacrifices, and devotion to their cause, of how families and homes had to be left, of how husbands and neighbors worked to make possible the trip for many mothers who could not have attended otherwise.
"Following the session where these mission singers sang their spiritual numbers, a special session in the Salt Lake Temple was arranged, with more than 300 Saints from California, Arizona, and Nevada participating. A stirring testimony meeting concluded the Temple session, and it was a day long to be remembered by the California Mission.
"Continued enthusiasm is being manifest since their return to their scattered branches, and the joy, thrills, and spirit of the General Conference is being felt throughout the mission.
"They are to be congratulated upon this achievement. They will long remember and appreciate the opportunity and privilege of singing in the great Tabernacle, made possible by the generous invitation of President Louise Y. Robison."
South Sanpete Stake
A very encouraging account of the educational work and the general program of activities comes from the South Sanpete Stake. Particular attention is called to the new course of study. Quoting from one of the letters: "The response from the young mothers is most gratifying. We feel confident it will bring new life and enthusiasm into the stake work. The sewing center is a new venture of which we are justly proud. It operates three days a week. From 8 to 12 women attend each day. Some of them have never sewed a seam before and are being taught how to do it really well. We appreciate anew the saying of President Robison, 'We work with women, not for them'. We are trying to stimulate the membership drive in various ways. Large posters patterned after the one displayed from the Long Beach Stake have been made for each ward, with spaces for each year until 1942. These posters are placed in the ward with the thought in mind that the members who see the comparative report of each of the wards will be eager to interest and enlist others."
Moapa Stake
An account of the work in Moapa Stake Relief Society brings to mind the wide diversity of interests which our Relief Society program fosters. While this stake is active in all branches of the work, the account of the Logandale Ward Relief Society program, which was held in honor of Nevada's admission to the Union, is most interesting. This was one of a series given as a part of the Sesqui-Centennial celebration of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States. The first one of the series was held in 1937. This dealt with the drafting and signing of the Constitution in 1787. The second was given in 1938 and was devoted mainly to the ratification of the Constitution. Nevada's early history and her admission to the Union formed one part of the program, while the other part was devoted to national history. One special feature was the playing of the Federal March, originally composed by Alexander Reinagle in 1788 and played at the Philadelphia celebration of the ratification of the Constitution in July, 1788. Altogether it was a most inspirational commemoration, uniting the young and old in doing honor to our great Constitution.
Logan Stake
The picture below is that of President Joseph Quinney of the Logan Temple congratulating Sister Maria Kristina Persson in front of the Logan Temple on her 92nd birthday. Sister Persson is a most interesting character and is a living demonstration of what active, wholesome participation in the Church can do for one. Sister Persson is perhaps the oldest temple officiator in the L. D. S. Church. She is still active after 44 years of devoted temple service. It is quite likely that she is the oldest Relief Society visiting teacher, as she still performs the duties of such, which have been hers for nearly 57 years. Her story is very similar to the ones which we have considered in our biographies of outstanding women, whose lives are eloquent sermons. Born in far-away Sweden she emigrated to Utah in pioneer days and has never ceased to carry on her work as a consistent mother and Latter-day Saint.
San Juan Stake
Among the interesting things which the San Juan Stake has succeeded in accomplishing is to train the members of the Relief Society to memorize well chosen memory gems taken from the teachings of Christ. These gems have included something from the Visiting Teachers' Messages and have been used in the Union meeting and at every Board meeting during the month. All Relief Society women were expected to memorize the gems and apply them in their lives. The visiting teachers were asked to carry them into the homes where they made their visits and request all mothers to have their families learn them as well. It was felt that this would help mothers and fathers and children to learn the scriptures and come to a better understanding of their significance.
The plan developed whereby the young mothers might attend Relief Society is very inspiring. There were many women who really desired to come but had no way of leaving their small children. A kindergarten was therefore started where capable young girls have been called to attend the children and teach them. These girls are in turn given instructions at the Union meeting by a trained kindergarten teacher. Comfortable rooms have been fitted up as nurseries, and the little folk are entertained and taught while their mothers attend Relief Society meeting.
In line with the program suggested by the General Board a class was started for young mothers. These lessons are on child guidance and the training of the young mothers. The young women are beginning to see how valuable this information is to them in the rearing of their children, and it has been the means of bringing many new members into the Relief Society organization.
The home-meeting project is another activity the Relief Society is sponsoring. The slogan for the past year has been, "A weekly meeting in every home, with all members of the family taking part." To quote from a letter from the secretary: "Although we have not yet reached this goal, much interest has been aroused and many families are holding these meetings. A feeling of good will and love for one another among both the old and young is the result of this project."
Woodruff Stake
Woodruff Stake has been very active in all its work during the past year, and the ward conferences were the most successful ever held, according to the report sent in to the office. There was a visitor from the Stake Board at each of the ward conferences. Each ward presented the pageant "It Pays To Be A Member", and this was productive of a wonderful spirit of enthusiasm. Two of the smallest wards in the stake made most enviable records. It was interesting to note the individual touches which each ward added to the regular production. Scenery painted by one of the sisters was used in a tableau, representing the Literary lessons on the Louis and Clark Expedition. The following picture is of the Diamondville Ward whose enrollment is 24. Many of the sisters came for miles to attend the practices of this pageant, and the resources of the people, though limited, were generously donated in order that a finished performance might be given. A month before conference a Union meeting was held at which the stake officers, assisted by local members, put over the pageant. At this meeting every ward in the stake was represented, and the program was most enthusiastically received. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - This was also a fine social occasion. Twenty-three awards, book markRefreshments were served by the ers of hammered copper with Stake Board. These gatherings do "Woodruff Stake" printed on them, much to keep up the enthusiasm and were awarded throughout the stake feelings of loyalty and unity throughto the sisters who had completed out the stake. The outside reading course. DIAMONDVILLE WARD, WOODRUFF STAKF. Bek 1 ITH malice toward none; with charity for all."'?Abraham Lincoln, Second Inaugural Address, March 4, 1865. A SLENDER acquaintance with the world must convince every man that actions, not words, are the true criteria of the attachment of friends; and that the most liberal professions of good-will are very far from being the surest marks of it.'?George Washington, First President of the United States. PEACE and friendship with all mankind; may we be permitted to pursue it."?Thomas Jefferson, Third President of the United States.