Faith By Donald G. Lyman
The philosopher James Allen has said, "Spiritual achievements are the consummation of holy aspirations. He who lives constantly in the conception of noble and lofty thoughts, who dwells upon all that is pure and unselfish, will, as surely as the sun reaches its zenith and the moon its full, become wise and noble in character, and rise into a position of influence and blessedness."
Most women's wants are spiritual in their very nature. They are closely associated with the desire for an ever improving home, a husband who stands firmly for the right, and children of whom they may well be proud and who will "arise up and call them blessed". How can we get what we want? What is it we are all seeking? Is it happiness? Perhaps so. That's a vague term, and it means something different to everyone of us. What do you want? Perhaps you want your daughter to stop smoking; perhaps you want your boy to be more careful about choosing his associates, or your husband to magnify his calling in the Priesthood; maybe you would enjoy being more used in Church work; or are you like some who want salvation and exaltation in the world to come and are patiently content with all kinds of unsatisfactory and unsavory conditions in this present life? Do you go along through life with the false hope that the transition from this life to the next one will automatically solve all your problems, or do you seek with faith the aid of your Heavenly Father in your daily attempts to meet your responsibilities and accomplish those things that will bring you happiness now?
It is perfectly normal to desire the good things of the earth for our loved ones and those about us. The Lord has told us to seek after the things that are of good report and praiseworthy. However, the forces of evil are ever present to tempt and lead us through our desires into paths of wickedness and unrighteousness. So it is well to follow along the Lord's path to obtain all things we want in life. Some of us overlook the fact that the Lord has said that we may have what we will if we have faith. Our Savior gave us the key after the incident in which he cursed the unproductive fig tree: "Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done. And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." (Matthew 21:21-22.)
The Apostle James gives us a little more insight when he said, "From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members? Ye lust, and have not; ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain; ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts.... God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.... Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up." (James 4:1-10.)
To walk in the Lord's path and get the things we want, we must have FAITH and ask our Heavenly Father, doubting not, but believing, and at the same time ask not amiss. This requirement of asking with faith is more simple than most of us realize. It simply means that we review our status before the Lord. We honestly acknowledge our sins and shortcomings, repent and resolve to do better. We make mental note of the progress we are making towards perfection and ask with humility and faith for those things that are in harmony with our measure of perfection under the Lord's plan of life. A repentant man or woman may approach the Lord with faith and gain His help in developing strength in righteousness which is the basis of faith with power. When we approach the Lord we can tell when we are asking with faith and when our prayers are a mockery in his sight.
If a mother wants a son to stop smoking, she usually knows what his answer will be before she asks it. It will be based on their previous association, and the result will depend upon the influence the mother has over the son. Our Heavenly Father can predict the general course of his earthly children, because he knows just how susceptible we are to his influence for good. How important it is that we be conscious of our power to develop through right living and faith the necessary powerful influences to lead our loved ones into the paths of truth and righteousness. When we do to the best of our ability all the things that are required of us in carrying forward our family and Church obligations, then we can approach the Lord in humility but with a confidence or faith that is born of God that our labors are accepted and our desires in righteousness shall be granted. No truer thing was ever said than, "The prayer of the righteous availeth much." Our prayers will be answered as long as and only when they harmonize with our thoughts and actions.
Here is one of the clearest examples found in the scriptures: "In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the Lord, And said, Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore. Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah, saying, Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears; behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years." (Isaiah 38:1-5.)
Hezekiah's prayer was one of faith coupled with humility uttered by an upright king, and the Lord was bound by this man's faith. Can we not follow this simple pattern, the Lord's path? We want our sons and daughters to do right. Are we willing to do right? Are we using tea and coffee, at the same time deploring the fact that our sons and daughters are smoking and drinking? Are we wondering why some of our sons and daughters have no love for the restored Gospel, and at the same time neglecting our family prayers and thinking lightly of the Sabbath Day? Are we concerned about our youth who do not have a testimony and yet seldom if ever bear our own testimony of God's work in their presence at home or elsewhere? Are we content to stay home ourselves and urge our children to attend Sunday School and other worth while Church meetings? If we answer "yes" to any of these simple little questions that just scratch the surface of our responsibility to our children, then there should be no question in our minds why the Lord does not answer our prayers. We can not pray to the Lord with faith, believing, when we ourselves are not putting forth a real effort to live the Gospel. When we can go before the Lord as humble King Hezekiah did and say, "Remember now, O Lord.... I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight...." Then will the Lord be bound to answer our prayers of faith, and we shall have the desires of our hearts in righteousness.