(Courtesy, "The Union Signal")
Another Great American By Lottie Barber Brown
Horace Greeley for forty years was America's busiest and boldest editor. He seemed to be everywhere, speaking, lecturing, attending conventions, never seeming to tire. If there was ever an important occasion, there you would find Horace Greeley, either as a delegate or a reporter, and he constantly conferred with the great and near great. Through his fearlessness and hard work he made the New York Tribune. The name of Greeley and The Tribune became almost synonymous. Through this great medium Greeley climbed to fame, and men and women throughout the nation followed his guidance in many great causes. Despite the fact that he was reared in poverty he felt that money should be the reward for hard work, and he severely condemned its acquisition in any other way. He said, "The darkest day in any man's earthly career is that in which he first fancies that there is some easier way of gaining a dollar than by squarely earning it. He has lost his way through the moral labyrinth and henceforth must wander as chance may dictate."
Greeley was a peculiar fellow. His high shrill voice was not pleasant to listen to, and many times his hearers would put their fingers in their ears. But the logic of his message seemed to penetrate the very soul, even though he lacked the charm of flowery presentation. He had a wonderful memory, and as a result, it was hard for him to understand why others of his profession did not have at their command the thousands of facts, dates and events which he held in recollection. His aversion to tobacco was very pronounced, for upon being offered a cigar he pushed it aside with: "No thank you. I haven't got so low down as that yet." Not only was he a remarkable writer of editorials, but his ability as a reporter and his mastery of the printer's art all combined to make the Tribune a model paper.
At Amherst, New Hampshire, Horace Greeley's mild, blue eyes first opened on February 3, 1811, being the third child of Zaccheus and Mary Woodburn Greeley. His father and mother struggled hard to lift the mortgage from their forty-acre farm, which was covered mostly with large boulders and trees. Horace was quite a wonderful child, being able to read when he was little more than a baby. Started school when he was three, when he went to Bedford to live with his Grandfather Woodburn. He found school very entertaining. He not only continued in his ability to read, but he also had an extra fancy for the spelling book, and the "spelling bee" was his delight, for he "spelled down" all opponents. Imagine a child of five having finished reading the Bible! Other books of his choice at which he spent his time while others of his age were playing were: Pilgrim's Progress, The Arabian Knights, and Robinson Crusoe. When he was thirteen he was taken out of school because the teacher could no longer instruct him.
As he grew up it was plain to him that farming was not the proper vocation for him, although he strongly recommended it to others. He decided to become a printer, and at the age of eleven made his first application, but being small of stature he was not accepted. Four years later he was accepted as an apprentice with the Northern Spectator, a paper in a town some twelve miles distant. His board was his only remuneration for the first six months, at which time he received a raise which amounted to forty dollars a year. In June, 1830, he was freed from his contract by the closing of the doors of the Northern Spectator. He was greatly admired by the townsfolk who sorrowfully watched him leave on foot to go to his parents who now lived four hundred miles away in Vermont.
Scarcely a year had passed before he found himself in the city of New York, a city of two hundred and twenty thousand people. He was just past twenty, tall and slender, with very few clothes other than the ones he had on, and ten dollars in his pocket. He knew the world was before him, and with the knowledge of the art of printing which he had obtained he set to with all his might. Surmounting all the difficulties of a stranger in a strange place he was a partner in a printing business within three years. The firm did well and shortly began the publishing of a weekly literary journal, The New Yorker, which Greeley edited himself. His great editorial ability was quickly recognized, and the paper grew steadily in popularity, for without fear or favor he spared none, either in praise or condemnation, in his opinions through the editorial columns.
September 16, 1839, when the "Mormons" were being so unjustly persecuted in Jackson County, Missouri, there was a mass meeting held in New York at which resolutions were framed denouncing the conduct of the Missourians, about whom Greeley wrote: "It is a burning disgrace to civilization and humanity that the outrages of which the poor 'Mormons' were the victims were committed, but a far deeper disgrace that those enormities have not to this day been made the subject of any judicial investigation. The grand juries and prosecuting attorneys of the counties adjacent to the scenes of horror are grossly culpable; but what shall we say of a governor (L. W. Boggs) who officially countenanced the murder of a people whom he was bound to protect? Missouri, until the blood is washed from her garments, is a disgrace to the Union."
The young editor's talent as a critic of public affairs was quickly recognized by the political leaders of the time, and he was prevailed upon to edit a daily campaign paper, The Constitution, during a New York City election. He was then asked to perform a similar duty in a state election in which the Jeffersonian was equally effective in helping to elect the governor. Then in 1840 the Whig party decided that a campaign paper should be issued, to be called The Log Cabin, to be conducted by Horace Greeley. He became the vital center in the campaign in state and nation, for besides editing, writing and setting type, he sat in party councils and made many speeches. The Log Cabin had been so popular that it did not die when the campaign was over, but the burden of carrying two papers became too great, and it was decided to start a daily morning newspaper to replace the two. Accordingly on April 10, 1841, the first issue of The New York Tribune came off the press.
Greeley first met Abraham Lincoln at Washington, D. C., in 1848. Lincoln was a representative in Congress. Despite the fact that Greeley doubted the wisdom of the choice of the Convention of 1860, which nominated Abraham Lincoln for President in opposition to Stephen A. Douglas, Lincoln's victory at the polls can be attributed to Greeley's whole-hearted support. Throughout the great conflict which followed closely upon Lincoln's entering the White House, the Tribune played an important part in expressing public sentiment. Greeley stood well in the graces of President Lincoln, yet never did he exercise any "pull," either for himself or his friends, except as it was done through the New York Tribune. Shortly after his second inauguration, Lincoln said of Greeley: "I have been a constant reader of the Tribune since its establishment and have regarded Mr. Greeley as the ablest editor in the United States, if not in the world. I believe he has exerted more influence in the country than any other man, not excepting the President of the United States. I consider him the equal if not the superior of Benjamin Franklin."
Greeley's just and fair conclusion about Abraham Lincoln was read in the columns of the New York Tribune after the assassination of the Great Emancipator. To quote in part: "He was no inspired Elijah or John the Baptist, emerging from the awful desert.... He was simply a plain, true, earnest, patriotic man, gifted with eminent common sense, which in its wide range gave a hand to shrewdness on the one hand, humor on the other, and which allied him intimately, warmly, with masses of mankind. There are those who say that Mr. Lincoln was fortunate in his death as in his life; I judge otherwise. I hold him most inapt for the leadership of a people involved in a desperate, agonizing war; while I deem few men better fitted to guide a nation's destinies in time of peace. Especially do I deem him fitted to soothe, to heal, and to unite in bonds of true, fraternal affection a people just lapsing into peace after years of distracting, desolating internal strife. His true career was just opening when an assassin's bullet quenched his light of life."
The town of Greeley, Colorado, was founded as a model town by his former agricultural editor, N. C. Meeker, and in September, 1870, Greeley made a tour of the West and visited the town that was named in his honor. Nineteen years earlier he had made a trip to California and had interviewed Brigham Young while in Salt Lake City. Greeley wrote several books, the most important of which was The American Conflict. It is rather strange that we find Horace Greeley opposing Grant in the election of 1872, but it came rather unexpectedly to him as well. Perhaps it will seem still more peculiar when we note that, though The New York Tribune was recognized as the voice of the Whig Party, which later grew into the Republican Party, Greeley was now a Democratic standard bearer. But it was not to be his lot to enter the White House. Neither was it hard for him to take defeat. Two weeks before election he was called to the bedside of his wife who passed away after a long illness, October 30, 1872. Those two weeks were very telling on this overworked mental giant. His last contribution to the paper he had made so powerful appeared on November 8, 1872. He was confined to his bed from then until the end came November 29 of that year. Thus passed a great friend of the poor, the laborer and the oppressed, a great American.