"Making Friends With Life" —Dr. James Reid By Lais V. Hales ONE of the crying needs of our day is that we should make friends with life. The Chinese have such a habit. There, even though a man is desperately poor and unfortunate, he will sit in the sun with his bit of bread and taste the beauty of the flowers, the trees, the birds. No outside influence can destroy his inner calm or take away his joy. "I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." Life to many of us is like a dog with an uncertain temper. We never know at what moment it may turn and bite us. Some people are suspicious of life. Some are hostile to it while others fight it. Most of us are never quite happy, never wholly at our ease. We have not made friends with life. In making friends with life two things should be remembered. One is the habit of realizing joys as they pass. "I mark only the sunny hours," is the motto on a sundial. That way of living is not possible, for the dark hours cannot be cut out of our lives. But "much of the good of life is lost for want of noting it and tasting it with gratitude before its passing." 'The other fact that we must remember is acceptance. Rebellion is foolish and the way to bitterness. In life there will be things that annoy and wound. Accept them, for they are part of God's discipline. With this acceptance will come peace. Christ tells us that "life is God's instrument for making us what He wants us to be, and for giving us His own best gifts." There are things God can give us through the sweet and lovely experiences of life. But there are things He can give us only when some wound has made an opening for His love and care. There are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through sorrow. We must realize that whatever happens, it is all good. We can be sure of God's love in everything. He does not strike the cruel blow. Sorrow comes fo us in a world which He has made. "His power to control and transform for our good that which happens we must keep in mind. We become friends with life when we make friends with God." To attain this Christ tells us to find time or make time for quietness and solitude. "Be still, and know that Iam God." It is in inner quietness with God that our souls are nourished. Like plants in the garden, the quality of our life on the surface depends on the roots—the life below the surface. Peace comes from knowing that God is our friend. 'Vhe world," said Keats, "Ss the vale of soul-making." FRUSTRATION is a very common feeling. Some of us are frustrated by ill health, weakness of will, mora] failure, physical limita- tions. In a sense none of us fulfil our dreams. Our reach exceeds our grasp. 'This feeling of frustration may come from missing the real meaning of'life. "The real purpose of our being is that God's Spirit should be kindled in us and come to burn in our lives." We feel frustrated unless we are of use to others. © Only by learning to give ourselves do we find ourselves. Happiness cannot be found by seeking it—even in religion. It can only be found by forgetting ourselves. God cares for each of us. We need to hold this belief close to our hearts today. We must not lose our sense of being worth while to God. If we do life becomes "just a mean struggle in the dark". Why do good men suffer and evil men often prosper? This question goes "sounding and _ sobbing" through the Psalms. Why are prosperous people so often spiritually blind? This often happens where life is uneventful. No reverses, no sorrows, no trials, enter their lives. But let these come and they seek God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 89 Most of us come to God through some sense of need. 'This may seem cruel if we don't remember that, "The whole meaning. Of life is that we should grow out of the material world into the spiritual." In these busy days we need to learn the art of resting. "The quiet Sunday has behind it a law of nature, and the laws of nature are the laws of God." We should not only rest on Sunday—we should rest with God. For this quietness Sunday provides the time, and its worship the opportunity. If it were only for these things our Sundays should be cherished and guarded. Heaven is a condition not a place. "He who has put his weak hand into the hand of Christ knows that he has been gripped by something which is not going to let go. If we know God in Christ and trust Him, we know that this love is the foundation of all things. "Surely His goodness and kindness Will abide when my seeing is dim. He is everlasting divineness; I will house me in Him."