LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology and SJestimony 2 Lesson 8 PETER, DISCIPLE and APOSTLE HELPFUL REFERENCES James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 140, 197-199, 218 f., 314 f., 360-364, 368, 370-376, 595 ?., 599 f., 610-612, 616, 629-631. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. -22. > A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve; consult index under heading of Peter. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 108-121. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 17-35. PETER ls Brought to the Christ.? The Gospel of John tells us in very simple language how Peter was brought to our Lord. We are told that one of John the Baptist's disciples was responsible for making the Man of Rock acquainted with the Master. To our surprise it is disclosed that the disciple was Andrew, Peter's own brother. Andrew and John, brother of James, had left their work at the fishing business to visit John the Baptist who was preaching and baptizing at Bethabara beyond the Jordan. They had probably made many similar visits before and had been won over to John's preaching. On this particular occasion the Baptist was standing with Andrew and John and saw the Savior approaching. Turning to his two disciples he said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!" (John 1:36) Then follows the famous account of the future apostles' first visit with the Christ. So impressed was Andrew that "He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ." (Verse 41) Andrew brought Peter to Christ who looked at him and said, "Thou art Simon the son of Jona; thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, a stone." (Verse 42) From the story as told by John we cannot quite escape the belief that Peter was also one of John the Baptist's disciples and was not far away. Earnest students of the Gospels are thankful for the limited accounts we have of these first meetings of Peter, Andrew and John with our Lord, but are hungry for greater details. What were the circumstances that caused Peter, Andrew, and John to become disciples of the Baptist? How long had they been with him when they met the Christ? These details and many others we should like to know because of our supreme interest in the characters involved. It seems remarkable that several of Christ's future apostles should have come to him through the good offices of the Baptist, the last man holding the keys of the Mosaic dispensation.
124 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SIMON PETER Goes Back to Work.?The Gospel of John (2:2) employs the word "disciples" or "learners" of Peter and his five companions who joined the Savior at Bethabara beyond Jordan. At the marriage feast in Cana the Master turned water into wine. The marvelous power of the Messiah over the elements must have deeply impressed Peter and the other disciples for the record says, "This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him." (John 2:11) We do not know how much time Peter and his colleagues were spending in the company of the Christ, but they did not give up their vocations at that time. During their absence it is probable that "hired servants" (Mark 1:20) carried on the fishing business. In the next picture we find that Peter and the others of the fishing firm had gone back to their regular work.
"I WILL Make You Fishers of Men."?Our Lord is pictured by Matthew walking by the Sea of Galilee when he sees Peter and Andrew casting their nets into the water. The Savior says to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men." (Matt. 4:19) The Master is quick to convert the word "fishers" to spiritual purposes. The fishermen were from now on to fish for the souls of men. We may perhaps regard the Christ's words to them as a formal call for training in his service. Farther down the shore James and John are found and receive the same call as Peter and Andrew. (Matt. 4:21, 22) These disciples now burn all their bridges behind them. "And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him." Only strong convictions and high moral courage could cause them to leave their families and their business and follow after a man who had been, and would yet be, extremely unpopular in high circles. It is probable that Peter, as the leader of the group, had given some careful thought before this time to the nature of the Messiah's teachings and to his supernatural powers. Men do not usually leave their homes and business at a word without counting the cost.
PETER is Chosen to be an Apostle?It is impossible for us to deal with all of the events that concerned Peter before the Savior called the Twelve. The latter seem to have been called when the organized opposition of the Pharisees from Jerusalem brought about a crisis. Then, too, the common people were so interested in the Christ that they followed him in great crowds. Probably our Lord felt that the definite organization of the Church would provide him with some badly needed assistance. We do not know how long Peter and his companions followed the Master before being made apostles, but probably long enough for the Lord to make amply sure that his choice of men was justified. Luke gives the following account of the circumstances under which the apostles were chosen: "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles." (Luke 6:12, 13) The solemnity of the appointments is shown by the fact that the Christ
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 125
spent a whole night in prayer before he formally set the Twelve apart. All the lists of the Twelve have Peter named first. There can be little doubt that he was ordained before the others, and was intended by our Lord to head the Quorum, despite all that has been written to the contrary.
THE Great Confession.?Probably many months after the appointment of the apostles our Lord came into the region of Caesarea Philippi. He had spent much time in teaching them of the true nature of his work and mission. The Master, great teacher that he was, determined to test his apostles in relation to their understanding of him as compared with other people. The Christ did not doubt the loyalty of the Twelve to him. That had been sufficiently demonstrated at various times. But the shadow of the Cross was near at hand and it was necessary for him to know their spiritual growth and insight. The Savior therefore raised a preliminary question in order to bring clearly the issue before the apostles. "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" (Matt. 16:13) The apostles responded immediately with the answer that the opinions of men differed. "Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets." (Matt. 16:14) This was common talk and not unknown to the Christ, but it paved the way for his vital question: "But whom say ye that I am?" (See Mark 8:29; Matt. 16:15; Luke 9:20) This was the matter that the Master was intensely interested in. It was a searching of the apostles' hearts. Would they fail him after long months of teaching by precept and example? It would probably be impossible for ordinary men to conceive the joy that filled our Lord when Peter impulsively, but with a full heart, answered, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This was a great confession, and we can expect a great rejoinder. It came. "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I also say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth will be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16:17-18.) These verses have aroused supreme interest among Christian peoples and have been variously interpreted. With due respect to the opinions of others, Latter-day Saints interpret the statements of the Master as follows: By the principle of revelation, Peter had received knowledge that Jesus was the Christ. On this enduring principle or rock the Christ meant to build his Church. Peter was to be given the keys of the kingdom of heaven which means that he was to hold all of the powers necessary to carry on God's work in the earth. So powerful were these keys that they held the powers of binding and loosing in heaven. Only the true Church of Christ on earth today recognizes and understands fully the nature of these keys.
126 -
PETER Receives the Keys of the Kingdom Upon the Mount of Transfiguration.?The Christ fulfilled his promise to Peter by conferring the keys upon him very shortly after the above incident. He took Peter, James, and John upon a high mountain where "he was transfigured before them; and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him." (Matthew 17:2, 3.) The apostles were shown many marvelous things upon the mount including the pattern according to which the earth shall be transfigured in due time. (Doctrine and Covenants 63:21.) The Prophet Joseph Smith points out that the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon these apostles while on the mount. He says, "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him." (History of the Church, Vol. III, page 387.) This statement of the Prophet is a real contribution to knowledge. It seems so reasonable, too, when we consider the fact that Matthew has the transfiguration story immediately following the Savior's promise of giving keys to Peter. Note, also, the fact that the three men afterward to function as the Presidency of the Church were the ones chosen to go with the Christ.
PETER Thrice Denies His Master.?We have seen Peter as fisherman, disciple of John the Baptist and the Christ, and as an apostle who has had a revelation that Jesus is the Christ, and who has received the "keys of the kingdom" under
FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
glorious circumstances. Now we shall see him as a weak, feeble, mortal whose infirmities are laid bare during the trial of his great Master. After the Last Supper, Peter had protested to our Lord as follows: "Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended." (Matthew 26:33.) But Christ answered, "Verily I say unto thee, That this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice." The Gospel further records: "Peter says to him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples." (See Matthew 26:34, 35.) Peter was with the Christ during his agony in Gethsemane and his subsequent betrayal. The Man of Rock attempted to save his Master and in doing so cut off the ear of Malchus which Jesus restored. Finally the mob prevailed, and the apostles all fled. Peter at last decided to follow the Master "afar off" to court for trial. We all know the familiar story of how he drew near to where the trial was going on and was accused by two maids of having associated with "Jesus the Galilean." He denied the charge to each, and the third time when confronted by others he "began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man." (Matthew 26:74.) The Gospel goes on to say, "And immediately the cock crew. And Peter remembered the words of Jesus, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly." How are the mighty fallen! The story of Peter's fall is told with simplicity and great power in the Gospels. There is no attempt to cover up his mistakes or to justify them.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 127
But Peter's greatness is revealed by the fact that he is the one probably responsible for our having any knowledge of his sin at all. Who could have told the story of his thrice denial of the Master? Aside from the latter Peter is the only one who knew the facts. The Man of Rock probably told and retold many times over the story of his great mistake to the ancient Church. His mental and spiritual agony because of his sin can only be imagined. We love this impulsive character even in his weakness.
Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits)
1. It appears that Peter and some of his immediate colleagues were disciples of John the Baptist. Do you think they were disturbed over religion in the same sense Joseph Smith was when he sought God in prayer? Discuss.
2. Why do you suppose the Savior performed so many miracles in the presence of Peter and the other apostles?
3. List some of Peter's strong points and weaknesses. Analyze the character of the man.
4. The Savior seemed to love John even more than Peter. Why do you suppose he chose the latter to be the chief apostle?
5. Why was it necessary for Moses and Elijah to be present on the mount of Transfiguration when Peter, James, and John received the keys of the Priesthood?
6. Discuss the serious nature of Peter's thrice denial of the Christ.
7. In the light of Peter's life discuss the following proposition: Christ loves men not necessarily for what they are but for what they may become.
8. The teacher is advised to read Mrs. Browning's sonnet, "The Meaning of the Look," to the class. (Luke 22:61.)
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 8
Obedience
JESUS said, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." (John 4:34.) Obedience is a most outstanding trait in the perfect personality?our Savior; indeed we may say He is obedience personified. "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." (Heb. 5:8.) Jesus contended that there was only one way in which to build personalities sufficiently strong to withstand trials, and that was through obedience to His teachings. The progress made thus far by psychologists can find no flaw in this contention, says Dr. Ligon, psychologist of Union College.
It is impossible to build strong structures upon weak foundations, but it is possible to build strong foundations. Obedience as taught by Jesus forms a strong foundation for desirable personality. Jesus explains this matter in the Sermon on the Mount, "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock." (Matthew 7:24-5.)
By modern revelation Latter-day Saints are commanded to study the Gospel and teach it to their children: (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:25-28.) In obeying this commandment of the Master they will develop personalities which will meet life understandingly. Love must be the keynote in all our teachings of obedience. If a child is taught really to love God he will give the type of obedience to God's commandments which develops strong personality. Children are naturally happy in obeying those they love. If parents are consistently obedient to these commandments their teachings will be effective.
"By strict obedience Jesus won the prize with glory rife. Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done adorned His mortal life."
Discussion
1. Cite a commandment of the Master and show how obedience to it affects personality desirably.
2. What type of obedience should be required in the home in order to secure the best personality development of family members?
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the Ward.
128 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 8
A City of Bells
WHEN men as great as Dickens and Thackeray die, the world gasps and people wonder if their like will ever be seen again. However, the novel had come to stay, and, therefore, it was natural that men and women would be found to carry on where those two giants, and George Eliot, Richard Blackmore, and a score of others had left off. Today novels roll from the printing presses in England and this country by the thousands. Many have marks of greatness on them; others clearly are written only to be read and tossed aside. In this country such books as Anthony Adverse and Gone With the Wind have surprised the critics with their popularity despite their length in an era that "hasn't time". Over in England a number of women besides those mentioned by Professor Phelps are writing their stories and sending them out like ships to sea. Among these there may be women of significance. As our last novel in this year's course, we have selected A City of Bells, by Elizabeth Goudge. This novel is very recent, having been published first in 1936. The author is still a comparatively young woman, approximately thirty-eight years of age, and is still writing. In a biographical sketch furnished by her American publishers she says:
"I was born in 1900 at Wells, Somersetshire, the cathedral town I have described as 'Torminster' in my novel, A City of Bells. When I was born my father was Vice-Principal of the Theological College, and we lived in the house with the tower in which Grandfather and Grandmother Fordyce live in the book. When I was three years old, and my father became the Principal of the College, we moved across the road to another old house, with carved angels in the corners of the rooms and dark passages that were wonderful for hide-and-seek.
"Though I was only a child I was never lonely in those early days. I had perfect parents and a perfect Nannie, and my invalid mother was, and is, the most wonderful storyteller in the world....
"My chief playmates in those days were a family of boys who lived across the road in the house with the tower....
"One of those little boys and I did lessons together with a Governess, Miss Lavington. To look at she was like the Miss Lavender of A City of Bells, but she was not like her in her methods of teaching. She was a magnificent, if stern, teacher. I have never had any memory nor any brains, but what little I do know was pounded into my unwilling mind by Miss Lavington."
Being the daughter of a school man, Miss Goudge moved with her family from one school town to another until her father finally became connected with Oxford. She concludes her sketch by saying: "Now I am writing about my present home, Oxford, which I love now as much as the quiet little towns of Wells and Ely.... But plays, just because they are so difficult and I never have any success with them, are still my first love."
Miss Goudge's great desire was to be a playwright. She says: "I was thirty-two before any success came my way: a Sunday night performance in London of a play about the Brontes. It was a small success, but no bigger one could bring me half so much joy again. I saw my play beautifully acted by real live actors and actresses, and I had some good notices in the papers. I was in heaven."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 129
She remained in "heaven," however, only a short time. "I returned home so encouraged that I gathered my plays together into a book and sent it the round of several publishers, with the humble suggestion that it would be nice if it could be published. The publishers, however,
130 -
did not think so; there was no market for unknown plays. 'But,' said one kind publisher, 'your work shows promise. Why not try to write a novel?'"
Miss Goudge took the suggestion and has had the pleasure of having three novels published, Island Magic, The Middle Window and A City of Bells, each one a rather pleasing success. Her first novel, however, was rejected once or twice by publishers who were afraid to take a chance with it. A City of Bells is having a deserved sale in this country as well as in England where it was first published.
It is a delightful story of modern English life in which the quaint charm of an English village is to be felt and enjoyed. It is a relief to many people to turn to a story like A City of Bells. In it is to be found sunshine and laughter as well as a sane, ordered existence such as most people, after all, enjoy. It is clean and wholesome, but because it deals only with the brighter side of life, it may lack in depth and significance. It was well received by the book reviewers as is indicated by the following excerpts from reviews. We quote them because they may not be obtainable by the literary teacher, and because, in most cases, they present so beautifully the tone of this charming novel:
"It is good to have on hand a few novels not only fundamentally happy, but well and truly written. This one is both; it should be marked down for those reading for peace and delight."?Booklist, M. L. Becker.
"A City of Bells is a joyous tale, whose rippling, magical prose is that
FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the born story-teller."?M. W. S. In Books.
Jane Spence Southron, in the New York Times, has caught the pleasing spirit of this tale. Says she: "It is a book of spring. A young book, brimful of the spirit that animates the beginnings of life; the same spirit that breathes in the joyfulest of Shakespeare's lyrics, in so many of the medieval chansons to Mary and the Babe, in much of Shelley, and in the works of those writers who never wholly lose their sense of wonder at the beauty of creation.... It is a book that weaves for grownups the same sort of magic as was Hans Anderson's gift to nineteenth-century children; or as was that of Lohengrin seen when you were nine. The philosophy of life explicit in the sayings and doings of many of its characters is as natural to it as perfume to a flower, and as acceptable."
One more review catches the mood of this book: "Nothing is harder to find, and nothing is better in its way when you have found it, than a pleasant book about nice people; and if, in addition to being amusing, it offers more plot than the usual light novel, and yet has always the comfortable assurance that everything will come right in the end, then it is a find indeed?like A City of Bells.... This is something more than a pleasant novel, for it has the romantic fault of improbability; it has in many passages great romantic beauty."?Basil Davenport in the Book-Of-The-Month Club News.
A City of Bells is what these critics have said of it?a delightful story, pleasant, sunny, joyous, clean. Not deep and heavy, not tragic and somber, not disgusting and sordid. In
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 131
it are to be found clean people and a clean outlook on life that is wholesome and bright. Miss Goudge has a delightful imagination and a touch that is as light as a zephyr playing upon the cheek in June. Speaking of wind, note this pleasing passage?"'Our destiny is like a wind blowing,' said Grandfather (speaking to Jocelyn). 'It carries us along. But now and again the wind seems to drop. We don't know what to do next. Then it may be that a blade of grass growing in the road beside us bends slightly. It is a tiny movement, slight as a whim, but enough to show us which way to take.'"
"In this story Jocelyn Irvin, dispirited because of a wound received in the Boer war, traveled down to the peaceful little English cathedral city of Torminster, there to visit his saintly (yet very human) old grandfather, Canon Fordyce. Practically forced to open a bookshop in a tiny house in the city (by the gossip of the town delightfully revealed by Miss Goudge) Jocelyn became interested in the writings of a former occupant, Ferranti, who had disappeared. In the finishing and producing of a play of Ferranti's, Jocelyn helped himself and others, especially the charming child, Henrietta, Canon Fordyce's adopted grandchild."
The delicate pictures painted of Canon Fordyce and his beloved old wife and of the two adopted grandchildren, Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, are as pleasant and as quaint as those sometimes found on old china. The portrait of Felicity, also, is well done. In her one can see, after reading the autobiography of Miss Goudge, some lineaments of the author. Passages such as these are fresh and pleasant:
"For in every dream Henrietta dreamed music had its place. She even thought that colors and scents had their sounds. Red was a trumpet blast, and green was the sound of fairy flutes, and the scent of the wisteria was a tune played by the violins that made one want to sit down on a cushion and never do any work any more."
A description of Felicity: "Jocelyn did not hear him, he was too much occupied in gazing at the most enchanting back view he had ever seen. It was that of a slim girl with an aureole of short, curly golden hair that stuck out all around like the petals of a sunflower. She wore a childish cotton frock of delphinium blue, with short sleeves and no collar, that showed the warm, creamy colour of her skin and the lovely moulding of her arms and slender neck....
"The girl swung round and Jocelyn, entirely forgetting his usually excellent manners, rubbed almost feverishly at the window with his handkerchief, so as to see her face perfectly. It was the most alive face he had ever seen. Her eyes were tawny and full of light and her heart-shaped face, with its delicate yet determined features, had a transparency that made it seem like a window through which she herself could be seen with a delicious clearness. Jocelyn felt that he was looking through two windows at the most courageous, generous person he had ever encountered. She was pale, but not with the moonlight paleness that was Henrietta's, for she looked sun-kissed
132 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and warmly loving, and somehow she was familiar. Somewhere else, Jocelyn felt, he had encountered that vivid personality."
A person who can write description like that and make one feel that it is true and genuine, is worth reading. As Miss Southron said in one of her reviews: "Let it not be thought, however, that Miss Goudge's prose is either dithyrambic or what is usually designated as poetic. It is distinctly prose; plain and simple as primroses. Her distinction in style derives from freshness of outlook."
That is very true, indeed?freshness of outlook describes her style. The book is so crammed with quotable passages that perhaps it is unnecessary to give any others, but the writer cannot resist this one, it is so rich, so vibrant, so fresh:
"It was this last today. The bare branches of the elm-trees were strokes of paint laid on sharply against the primrose wash of the sky. The Cathedral towers stood out hard and black against the sheeted gold of the west, and snow-covered grass stretched smooth and pure. Here and there a sudden speck of color burned as the painter's brush touched the flat surfaces; an orange square of lamplight leaping out in a dark house, a flash of colour on the snow as a robin hopped across it, a gleam of blue and green as a child in a gay muffler ran home from school. As always on these days when the earth is a painted picture it was very still; the cawing of a rook and the chime of a bell fell sharply as pebbles dropped in a deep well."
As a writer in the London Times said of her: "She is happiest with one foot at least off the earth. Her sentiment is never forced or insipid; her spiritual flights, not high, are never pretentious, and she takes off and alights neatly."
Miss Goudge's charm lies in the fact that she can write beautifully and at the same time convincingly?a splendid achievement for any author. The book in its earlier chapters is, to say the least, delightful. It does not have the power to hold up to its initial high standard to the end. After the planning of the production of the play begins, the author has to see that the thing is properly staged and produced. In so doing she has to leave too much her delightful persons?the Fordyces, the incomparables, Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, and the quaint loveliness of Torminster. That is unfortunate, for in them lies the charm of the book. However, after the last page has been read, one turns away from it feeling that he has had a glowing spiritual experience with people who are the salt of the earth.
Suggestions
1. Read, if it is available, Island Magic.
2. Elizabeth Goudge is writing for several American magazines. Her stories may be had in libraries which preserve such magazines as Good Housekeeping and Woman's Home Companion.
3. Read copiously from the book, for in the language, rather than in the story, is to be found the charm of this book.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 133
4. It should be interesting to have some visitor to a Cathedral Town, if there be one in the community, describe such an English town.
5. Grandfather and Grandmother Fordyce could well be discussed, especially their outlook upon labor and their attitude toward the poor.
Social Service
Lesson 8
On Being A Good Mother-in-law
CENTRAL Thoughts of the Lesson. After a mother has nurtured her child throughout the growth period, it is naturally very difficult for her to see the child grow up and leave home to enter marriage. This change calls for radical revision of habits on the part of both the mother and the child. Preparation for being a good mother-in-law begins during the child guidance period and is continued throughout adolescence. The transition to adolescence and later into marriage should not constitute a crisis for either the parent or the child if proper training in independence and self-reliance has been carried out during childhood. Preparation for the role of mother-in-law should include a cultivation of unfolding and creative interests which in a measure substitute for the emotional outlet she loses when her children marry. Another useful preparatory measure for both mother and child is to complete the educational preparation of the child by sending him or her away on a mission or to school for a period long enough to wean both mother and child to a certain extent. After the marriage, the mother-in-law can promote harmony by not taking a conspicuous place in the home life of the children, and by taking particular pains not to interfere with the disciplining of the grandchildren.
MARRIAGE Requires Radical Habit Revision of Both Mother and Son or Daughter. After a mother has spent approximately twenty years ministering to the physical, mental, and spiritual needs of her child, it is to be expected that she experiences great difficulty relinquishing her career as mother. When her son or daughter marries, she experiences much of the same pain that is so severe when death calls one of her loved ones away. Perhaps for twenty years the mother has had no other daily duty which has absorbed her life so much as seeing to every need of her daughter. She has nursed her whenever she has fallen ill; she has "struggled through" every stirring romance her daughter has had; and has been almost as anxious about the outcome of the daughter's school work or her part in extra-curricular activities as the daughter has herself. Then one day she must suddenly step aside and see her go into the arms of another to begin the great task of building a "kingdom" of her own.
134 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The marriage of a son or daughter often means to the parents the assuming of more burdens themselves, if the childhood training has been proper and the children have been taught to take much responsibility themselves. It sometimes means leaving the parents all alone with an extremely unpleasant hole in their lives. Perhaps the most difficult test comes when the mother is required to relinquish her position as sole advisor and disciplinarian. Her advice and control, which was formerly taken for granted, is now resented more and more as the newly married one grows into the full measure of her adult status. These difficulties may be complicated for the mother by her feeling that her son or daughter made a bad bargain in the marriage, i. e. The one married was not quite good enough. In this case, the parent may remain over-solicitous concerning the welfare of her son or daughter and may continue to provide in every way she can to make up the deficiency. If it is true that proper provision is not being made, (whether it pertains to financial, emotional, or social advantages) the favors may be gladly received from the parents and their continuance encouraged. This of course undermines the self-respect of the other party in many cases and is the starting point for a long and painful "in-law" antagonism. It also prolongs childhood dependence and postpones psychological weaning. We do not advocate here that aid should not be given in some cases, but we are simply pointing out a common circumstance which vitiates family relationships.
A young man's mother has special problems of an emotional nature when he marries. Often she feels the keenest competition with her daughter-in-law for the affection of her son. It isn't always a clearly understood kind of behavior on the mother's part, because so often she has developed a subconscious emotional attachment to her son which is a substitute for lack of affection between herself and her husband. This attachment may be the primary source of emotional satisfaction in her life. This is, of course, an unfortunate condition, but it is quite common and explains many of our most difficult problems of inter-family relationships. A mother with a tendency to be too much absorbed in her son is likely to keep a constant vigil lest her daughter-in-law neglect in some way her responsibilities toward her husband. This sometimes leads to unsolicited suggestions on how to manage her home and how to conduct herself. Obviously antagonism is likely to result.
PREPARATION for Being a Good Mother-in-Law Begins During the Child Guidance Period and Should be Completed During the Adolescence of the Child. In the lesson on marital adjustments, we learned that preparation for marriage begins in the cradle. We might say, as well, that she who would be a good mother-in-law should begin training herself and her child along certain lines in early childhood. The mother who has achieved the fundamental attitudes necessary for proper child guidance should have a minimum of difficulty in making the adjustments after the child has matured and married. Of these atti-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 135
tudes, perhaps none is more important than that of understanding the needs of the child and the ability to be heroic enough to let the welfare of the child take precedence over the emotional needs of the mother. Proper child guidance is based on the aim of making the child as nearly a self-sustaining and happy person as possible. This means training the child to take the consequences of his own acts as far as is reasonable; it means training the child in assuming the responsibility for his share of the tasks about the home, such as regular attendance to washing before meals, putting away his articles, taking care of his clothes, and cleaning up his own musses around the home. As maturity approaches, it means training in the care of money, working for at least part of his support, and training in self-sufficiency in pursuing his educational program. For girls, it means training in household arts, responsibility with other children, providing for their own needs to some extent as regards clothing, and cultivating whatever artistic or other talents they may possess. Space will not permit detailed consideration of the technique of developing responsibility in children. We shall add here only the suggestion that proper child guidance is based on striking a happy medium between expecting too much and expecting too little in the way of responsibilities. Happy childhood is based on a suitable balance between freedom and play on the one hand, and responsibilities and adherence to routine on the other. Over-solicitous mothers often become difficult mothers-in-law. This is true because over-solicitousness breeds dependence in the child and too much of a sense of responsibility in the mother for the acts of the child. These personal relations between mother and child are likely to carry over into the marital period and make a pleasant transition for both almost impossible. In many cases, an open breach is likely to occur between the parent and child during the stormy adolescent period which precedes marriage. Most children as they become mature physically and mentally have a strong desire to feel grown up, to use their own judgment, to find their own companions without parental dictation, to explore a larger world than is circumscribed by the family circle. The first signs of this independence are forcefully resisted by the over-solicitous parent, who cannot bear to see the child grow up and away from her. Fortunately the struggle for independence during adolescence prepares for the still more vital step toward independence which comes with marriage. In fact, many a premature marriage is simply an escape from an overdominating home influence. In less violent cases, adolescence is simply a period during which the parent and child must intelligently begin to wean themselves apart. It need not be with bitterness, but it must be done if the marriage crisis is not to be a painful one. With the proper educational program in the home, the crisis of adolescence need not be severe either. Training for independence begins in early childhood; and if intelligently carried through the 136 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whole period of childhood to adolescence, there is little need for adolescence to be the trying period for parent and child it is usually considered. Likewise, if the weaning process of adolescence is properly managed by an intelligent and stable parent, the marriage of her children is not the trial to her it is usually imagined. This theme does not imply that parents should simply leave their children alone and let them find their own way in life. The most devoted parents are those who can be ever conscious of what their children are experiencing and who have maintained such good relationships with them that they are always in the confidence of their children. The parent who is more concerned with nursing her own emotions rather than considering the welfare of the child is likely to "lose" her child when the transition into adulthood is made, for the simple reason that she is not likely to want the child to grow up and is likely to exercise so much dominion that the child finally has to rebel. The mothers who are most promising as mothers-in-law are those who find their greatest joy in seeing their children develop strong characters able to live happily largely on their own strength, and ever loving and grateful to their mothers because they didn't help too much, and because they never made it necessary to rebel in order to grow up. CONDITIONS Preceding Marriage Which May Foster Good Relations in Marriage. Mothers should begin long before the children are grown up to cultivate emotional substitutes to brighten their lives after the children have marnied and left home. They may cultivate a taste for art or music. Perhaps they can learn to play the piano, to make some artistic kind of hand work, to help their husbands in business, or they may take up some courses in school which they have longed to take but for want of time have never been able to. Relief Society activities permit the releasing of reserve energy and are an excellent source of aims that may make life infinitely richer and more interesting. Busy and intelligent women find so many important activities to fill up their lives that they have no time to meddle in the affairs of their children after they have married. Sometimes, to send a young man or a young woman away on a mission or to school before marriage cultivates independence and tends to lighten the shock for both mother and children when marriage comes. Homesickness is likely to make the early months of marriage difficult for everyone if the young man or young woman has never been away from home for any period before marriage. An essential aspect of growing up psychologically is to acquire the ability to "go alone', or to find one's way about in strange ? places if necessary. A story is told of a man in his thirties, caught in the military draft during the World War, who was so upset at having to leave home that he became mentally unfit for service. His mother interceded at military headquarters to have her "baby" released because he had never slept away from home in his life. With these two conditions satisfied, if the mother can learn during RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 137 adolescence how much advice she can give without offense and how to give it, she should be fairly well equipped to become a good motherinlaw. She should have also made up her mind to share the love her child has for the future companion in marriage, and if possible she should have made her own enviable character one of the reasons her child is chosen in marriage. Someone said that we don't marry a person but a family. W HAT Can a Mother-in-Law Do After the Marriage of Her Child to Promote Harmony? First, she should assign herself the frequently unpleasant duty of not making herself a prominent part of the new household. If it is possible, the newly married couple should be made to find their own home independent of the parents of either party. She should take care not in any way to complicate their lives; she should not stay with them nor interfere with any degree of independence they care to excercise in building their family life. This means that the mother must throw off the "mother attitude" and substitute the attitude of considering her child as an adult equal, with complete independence of judgment and action. It does not mean that the mother should lose all of her influence for good in the life of the son or daughter, but it means that the influence must not come as motherly dictation. She now influences through her wisdom and insight, and not through parental authority. A common mistake mothers make is in taking up the quarrels of their son or daughter with their "in-laws"', In these matters she may act as friendly advisor, but to enter into the conflicts in an active and emotional way rarely accomplishes any good. Then when grandchildren come, there appears the problem of satisfying the grandparent's emotional needs through the grandchildren. Grandparents must continue to practice what was good philosophy in bringing up their own children: caution against doing so much for the child that he fails to develop normal independence of action and personal responsibility. 'Then, they must think too of the serious family and discipline problems created by interfering with the guidance methods used by the parents. Evcn poor discipline methods are perhaps to be preferred to conflicting methods by different members of the family. Let the child's parents draw on your wisdom as they need it, but avoid, so far as possible, taking an active part in the disciplining of the children. Finally, a good mother-in-law must not take offense at what seems to be too much forgetfulness on the part of her married children. She must realize that the young have their new emotional attachments and their new home responsibilities and life ambitions. 'The success of the mother-in-law depends upon her ability to make corresponding substitutes in her own life. Class Exercise Discuss the following list of miscellaneous suggestions on the mother-in-law problem and have the members of the class add to it others which they think are important: 138 FEBRUARY,  . Avoid being a match-maker; don't make the child feel that she will be an old maid. 2. Refrain from being too critical of the company your son or daughter keeps during the courtship period. Suspend judgment until you know the person. Have a friendly, open-minded attitude until you have a sound basis for judgment. 3. If the child marries without parents' consent, don't "disown" him or her. Attempt to accept the child's point of view and to make the best adjustment to the situation. To refuse to acknowledge the child's partner as a member of the family only causes unhappiness and may ruin what otherwise may be a successful marriage. Avoid saying, "I told you so" after marriage. 4. Resist the tendency to feign illness and other forms of malingering in order to postpone the child's marriage, or to bring the child home after marriage. 5. See the folly of the contention that anything that was good enough for you when you were married should be good enough for your daughter-in-law. Encourage your son to provide well for her. 6. Guard against being so solicitous of the welfare of your son or daughter-in-law that your own son or daughter becomes jealous of you. Problems For Discussion 1. What steps would you recommend a mother to take in preparation for her role as a mother-in-law? What preparation for her son or daughter would you recommend? 2. What is the effect of prolonged "nfancy" of a child on the interfamily relationships after marriage? 3. Why is it inadvisable for newly married couples to live with the parents of either party? For the mother-in-law to live with the young people? 4. Show what the effect on the child is for the grandparents to take an active part in the disciplining. 5. How can sending a young man or woman away to school or on a mission simplify the mother-in-law problem? 6. Suggest a few new interests and activities a mother-in-law can take up to bridge the gap left by the marriage of her child. References For Further Study 1. Anonymous. "I Sent My Father to an Old Men's Home." Readers Digest, March, 1936, pp. 33-37. (For original article, see The Forum, February, 1936.) 2. Anonymous. "I Am _ the Mother-in-Law in the Home." Readers Digest, November, 1937, pp. 11-14. (For original article, see Saturday Evening Post, September 18, 1937.) 3. Hollingworth, Leta S. "The Adolescent Child," in Handbook of Child Psychology, Ed. By Carl Murchison, pp. 882-908. Worcester, Mass. Clark Univ. Press, 1933. 4. Morgan, J. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 169-201. New York. Education for Si amily Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 5 The Ways of Men and Women By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EN and women differ from each other not merely,?literally,?in every cell of their bodies, but in their behavior 1 every relationship of life. Successful family life depends upon an understanding of these differences. Woman's understanding of herself is often confused by what Alfred Adler called the "masculine protest'. From as far back as she can remember, the girl has been led to feel that this is a man's world, and that she is prevented from doing a lot of things that she could do perfectly well, not by her inability but by the mere accident that she was born a female instead of a male. All her life, it seems to her, she has heard, "Little girls don't do such things," and "That's all right for boys, but you're a girl," and so forth and so on. Through years of this she grows up with the feelings that this Man's World is organized to the disadvantage of women, and that therefore she is unfortunate in not having been born a man. Studies show that the great majority of educated women have at one time or another wished they had been born boys. It would be hard to find an educated man who ever wished that he had been born a girl. This simple difference produces far-reaching results in the behavior of many women, leading them (for the most part quite unconsciously ) to be dissatisfied with life, dissatisfied with themselves, and more or less antagonistic toward men as the supposed authors of their misfortunes. The adult woman should make sure that her own outlook on life is not being confused by such an unconscious attempt to be a secondrate man,?which she can never be! ?instead of a first-rate woman, which she can be. She must then make sure that her daughters are brought up in a realistic way, protected as far as possible from injustice, and prepared for marriage and motherhood rather than for failure and frustration. Among sex differences to which particular attention should be paid are the following: I. Men tend to be more aggressive than women. Terman and Miles in their recent study, Sex and Personality, consider this the fundamental and most important distinction. It goes back millions of years in the history of the race. Women, therefore make a mistake in adopting too aggressive a manner in dealing with men,?either before 140 FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or after marriage. One of the commonest complaints of unhappy husbands who come to the Institute of Family Relations is that their wives are too aggressive; one of the commonest complaints of unhappy wives is that their husbands are not aggressive enough! Unfortunately, modern life tends to override this ancient pattern. In the city, a boy sometimes sees little of his father, has little association with his father's work or with the work of other men in the world. He is dominated first by his mother, then by his school teachers, nearly all of whom are women; then (at adolescence) by the girls in his class, who are the same age chronologically but a couple of years ahead of him in their biological, emotional, and social development (because the female matures more rapidly than does the male). Hence the boy grows up without normal masculine initiative, in dealing with the other sex. The girls have taken it away from him and too often become used to exercising it themselves. The result, after marriage, is not satisfactory to either one. More association of boys with their fathers and other men in the work of the world (an association that is natural and almost inevitable on the farm) will help to remove this handicap from city life. More men, real men, happily married and successful fathers, would also be a desirable addition as teachers in the public schools. II. Men are excessively egotistical. The successful wife has learued (or knew by instinct) that she must spend much of her time protecting her husband's self-esteem and building it up. This does not mean that women lack vanity, but at least there seems to be a difference in the quality of the egotism of the two sexes. It has sometimes been said that men are egotistic, women narcissistic (after the legend of Narcissus, the Greek youth who fell in love with his own reflection in a pool, and pined away from unrequited affection). III. Men have a feeling of sex solidarity, of "gang sociality', which is less pronounced in women. Perhaps it is associated with the fact that for millions of years men have worked together in hunting and fighting, occupations that depend largely on discipline, teamwork, and cooperation. Women have tended to work more individually. Men have little enough capacity for cooperation, but at least (in their own opinion) they have somewhat more of it than women. This individualistic tendency sometimes leads to friction in the management of women's clubs and other organizations. Possibly women have developed, through a long process of evolution, a greater instinctive feeling of loyalty to the home than to other women. IV. On the whole, woman has more "social intelligence" than man. For hundreds and thousands of years her ancestresses have had to study human, and particularly masculine, nature. A woman would not leave any offspring to perpetuate her characteristics, unless she acquired not merely a husband, but a fairly good husband (and perhaps such were as scarce a thousand years ago as they are now!). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 141 Yet she had to do this by indirection and strategy, since the man had the initiative and was expected to be the aggressor. In general, therefore, and if she has not received a misleading education, woman understands man better than man understands woman. Unfortunately, this social intelligence, desire for the best possible home, concern over keeping up appearances, and the like, sometimes becomes perverted into snobbishness and "social climbing". It is the wife, not the husband, who is most concerned with "keeping up with the Joneses". At the other extreme, when she lets herself go and ceases to care for appearances, a woman seems to lose morale all around. Terman and his associates, in their recent exhaustive study on "Psychological Factors in Marital Happiness" discovered that slovenliness in a wife was more distressing to the husband than dozens of factors that might at first sight have seemed more serious. In conclusion, neither sex should allow itself to be annoyed at peculliarities of the other that are simply characteristics of the sex. Girls, however, should be brought up to understand their own natures. In particular, they should know that all studies show the importance to a woman of normal marriage and child-bearing, as a fulfilment of personality and as an aid to physical and mental well-being. Actually, the longest-lived and most vigorous women in a normal group will be found to be those who have borne the most children, not those who have borne the fewest or those who are childless. The vital statistics of the single woman, still more of the divorcee, are highly unsatisfactory, showing shorter expectation of life, greater expectation of insanity, of imprisonment, and of suicide. Boys, similarly, should be brought up to be first-class boys rather than poor imitations of women. Since they must inevitably be exposed so much to feminine influence while they are growing up, care should be taken that these various women,? the mother, the kindergarten teacher, the music teacher, the Sunday School teacher, and the long list of others,?do not try to mould him too much in their own pattern. Dr. Goodwin Watson has lately called attention to the fact that women school teachers tend to get along best with the boys who are really "sissies", and look upon them as models of deportment. Ifa boy has normal masculine patterns, they are apt to call hima "behavior problem". Neither sex is inferior to the other. They complement each other. Each depends on the other. When each is at its best, both will get the most out of life. Questions and Problems 1. Mrs. Chase Going Woodhouse questioned 250 highly educated and very happy wives as to their greatest problem in marriage. A large part of them said it was trying to understand their husbands. What could be done to help them? 2. Dr. Will Durant says, "Woman surpasses man in love and is surpassed by him in friendship." Do you agree? Why? 3. Make a list of 10 differences in behavior between the sexes, not mentioned in this lesson, which you 142  FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE think might be of importance in understanding personal relations. 4. In the light of the psychological differences between the sexes, what advice would you give to a young man who wants to know how he can become more popular with the girls? 5. Similarly, what advice would you give to a young woman who wants to know how she can increase her popularity with men? Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 7 A Review and A Summary THE foregoing brief outlines of the lives of seven typical women in the Church could, obviously, present only high lights in the lives of these worthy ladies. Even so, each one is seen to be a distinct personality. No two of them are alike. There are, however, many qualities of character common to them all. In a general way there is a typical Latter-day Saint character, as is illustrated by these seven lives. The philosophy of Mormonism must of necessity leave its imprint upon sincere adherents of Mormonism. Let us somewhat expand and pass some of these things in review: 1. The Maesers were descendants of cultured and educated people. They themselves were educated and cultured. How do you explain that they accepted Mormonism and heroically endured all the consequent poverty, suffering and humiliation that befell them? 2. In a general way would this same explanation apply to Anna Widtsoe? Explain. 3. Outline the general features of a typical L. D. S. Character. 4. Compare this typical character with the average character of a worldly woman, that is, a woman motivated by the usual ideas of worldly people. 5. Show why you think the typical L. D. S. Character is worth all it costs. 6. What influence did want and suffering have on the character development of the women studied in the foregoing lessons? 7. As the foregoing lessons indicate, show that this L. D. S. Character exists in every land and among every people who accept and live the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 8. The American poet Longfellow wrote the following lines: "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Foot-prints on the sands of time." A Psalm of 'Life. Point out to what extent the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 143 thought of these lines applies to any or all of the women studied. 9. The Belgian pessimist thought there could be no God in heaven for the reasons he stated. What is your explanation of the point he raised? 10. In former days ostracism and persecution followed those who joined the Church in the world. To what is due the change between those days and these? 11. The question is sometimes asked "does blood count?" After reading the foregoing lessons what is your answer? Give reasons for it. 12. Jeannette D. Crane is said to have been a "'natural-born" teacher. If she were such, what qualities and skills did she exercise to succeed in teaching? ' 13. What must a person do if he is to be a_ successful class-room teacher? 14. In Lesson 5, speaking of the Cannons, reference was made to the "Donner Party". Relate the circumstances of this ill-fated party on its way to California. 15. Also in Lesson 5 reference was made to the coming of Johnston's army to Utah and the "move south," etc. Relate the circumstances to which these references refer.