The common understanding that muscular activity is carried on at the expense of muscle tissue is not true. In extreme muscular activity, such as football or prizefighting, the muscles are actually enlarged, not torn down. What is needed for hard physical work is an additional amount of energy foods, not additional protein foods. When sufficient energy is provided for muscular activity there will be sufficient protein. There is no scientific reason for supplying more meat in the diet of the working man than of the man at the desk. Spring Thaw By Helen Martin HE smoke from the outside furnace fire rose black against the sun as Ernest Miller threw a pine log under the tubs of boiling water. Effie Miller, pouring brown, slightly smoky lard grease into the spotless buckets standing on the pantry shelf, glanced up as her husband's laughter and pleasant voice drifted in through the partly open window. She loved to hear his voice and to watch his precise movements as he went about the task of butchering an animal. He always knew exactly what he intended to do, and did it. Of course, he had had four years' training at State University in, as she laughingly said, "matters agricultural", but not all of his ability along this line was due to education. Something there was which mere education could not supply. Her attention was caught by the mailman closing the box at the end of the lane. Piling the rinds from the fat carefully in a bowl, she slid into her galoshes and sweater. Running up the lane she called to her husband, "Oo—Hoo Ernest! I'm off for the mail." Her trip back to the house was slower. She opened the single letter and read it as the crisp wind blew her hair around. The snow crunched under her feet. The conversation of her husband and the neighbor, whose pig he was butchering, stopped suddenly as she came up to them. "Funny," she thought quickly to herself as she tucked the letter in her pocket, "Funny how Ernest gets on with the neighbors; prosperous and poor alike look up to him and value his opinions, while with me they just shut up like clams." "Bad news?" asked her husband. "Must be, or you wouldn't have deep furrows in your brow." "Hope not," added the neighbor politely, but coldly. "Yes, itis bad news. Sister Sandra is ill, and with Ben on full-time work and the children in school there is no one to look after her. She's been used to hired help. Her family isn't used to doing for themselves. I guess they're in pretty much of a mess. At any rate Ben writes that they wish I could come in for a few days just to help get them straightened." "You'll do just that!" spoke up the neighbor warmly, almost too warmly. But the remark passed unnoticed as Effie turned into the house. She called over her shoulder to her husband, "Please hurry, Dear, [ll need some help if I'm to get everything done and packed to leave on the early evening train." Then as the thought struck her— "You think I better go don't you?" "Of course! Ill be through here in half an hour, then we'll get everything attended to so you can leave without a worry." Turning to the neighbor as Effie closed the door, he added, "She'd worry all the while she was gone if the house wasn't spotless and the pantry full." "There's some things more important," dryly observed the old man. "Take for instance, raising RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY children." I looked closely at Ernest as he spoke and was instantly sorry, as he saw the look that crossed the younger man's face. "Sorry," he muttered, "guess it's none o' my affair." "We'd have a family, but Effie feels that the country docsn't offer the opportunities for educating children that a city does. She won't hear of having a child until we can afford a small house in town as well as the farm" —he stopped suddenly as if he just remembered he was telling secrets not meant for gossip, and added quickly, "never you inind, some day welll have a family that will rival yours, Will. How's the youngest grandchild?" From here the conversation drifted off to general topics. THE electric sped on leaving the brown and grays of the village and darting into the midst of square patches of white fields which were broken here and there by clusters of willows and a few trees. The topped grain poking occasionally through the snow shone slightly yellow in the setting sun. Ahead, although still far off, the smoke of the approaching city hung like a threatening cloud over the 'valley. Effic's head hummed. The approach to the city always thrilled her. She loved its busy hustle, its crowds, its impersonal tolerance, and its everlasting noise. In spite of her sister Sandra's illness she couldn't help leaning forward in anticipation. There would be no talk here of how many calves were being fed, no endless "quilting bees" with the sharp gossipy tongues wagging, no one watching every move she made with an eye to its value as future material for conversation. Here in the city her marriage to the genial Ernest would have been readily accepted, but only briefly noticed. In the village it was deeply resented. What right had she, a city girl, to come into the village and, after two years' teaching in the smal! High school, marry the most socially and financially eligible young man in town? The familiar yellow and black cab stood by the entrance to the station. She gave the driver Ben and Sandra's address and sat back to enjoy the trip through the center of town. Lights—slush—horns—bustle — she loved it all. If it weren't for the worry over her sister she would really have enjoyed the entire trip. The cab stopped by a large town house and Effie got out, paid the driver, grabbed her suitcase and rushed up the steps to ring the bell. But no Ben answered the bell. Instead a burly gentleman barked, "Well, Sister? What is it?" "T--I thought this was the home of Mr. And Mrs. Benjamin Christensen," gasped Effie. "Sorry, Sister. They lost it over two months ago. We took up their mortgage. 'They're living down town somewhere. My wife's put their address away, but I don't know where." Effie pulled Ben's letter out of her purse. Sure enough there on the first page was the new address underlined. She had missed this detail in her worry over the contents of the letter. "May I use your telephone to call a cab?" she asked. "Sure thing, Sister. Help yourself. It's here in the hall." Pacing up and down the street 102 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Effie awaited the arrival of the cab. Strange, Sandra had never hinted in her letters that there was so much wrong with them. Of course, she had written that Ben had lost his supposedly permanent position and had only lately obtained something which, though not in his line, would be a beginning again. The cab arrived and urging' the driver to hurry across town they went through the lights, slush, horns, and bustle to an apartment house of ancient vintage. In the dim hall of the apartment house she looked over the mail boxes hunting for the one that held the name of Ben and Sandra. Three flights up she hurried and back to the last door in the hall. She rang the bell. Ben answered. The worried look on his face gave way to a half smile as he saw Effie. "Come in, come in! Gee, am I glad to see you!" he greeted her. "This isn't the big house, but you are just as welcome as if it were. Give me your bag and coat and then, please, go right in to San. I just told her today that I had sent for you." N a bed in the small bedroom lay Sandra pale and listless, hair stringy, and nails unkempt. So unlike the smart, well-groomed sister Effie remembered that the difference brought her up short. Trying to hide her surprise and shock she gently grasped her sister's hand, "Darling, I'm so sorry you're ill. You should have written me sooner. I could have come any time." Tears running down her pale cheeks, Sandra sobbed, "I couldn't, I just couldn't. It was my pride I suppose. You don't know how hard it is to come down to this after all I've been used to. Dear, I'm so glad you are here! You were always a good manager. You can help us if anyone can." Effie looked around—so much to do—house mussy—boxes piled in the corer. Sandra must have been ailing for a long time; she must get tight busy. 'These thoughts rushed through her mind. Then she became more human. 'These people had worried and suffered. It could even be seen in the eyes of ten-year-old Billy and fourteen-year-old Susan, as they stood in the doorway and watched her. "Say, I'm starved. I see dinner's on the table, why don't we eat? Billy, open my bag, you'll find a sack of your favorite cookies. They will go good with whatever we're eating." The potatoes were watery, the meat tough, the cookies didn't help the cocoa much! Ignoring these Effie kept up a string of conversation. She told them all the funny things that had happened on the farm. How the new calf wobbled. How Emest and she had gone skiing and how she tumbled half way down the hill. After dinner Effie became impractical for the first time in her life. Strangely she felt the need of this family for a mental lift rather than a physical one. She laughingly said, "Let's not even worry about these dishes tonight. Let's just relax." So she kept up her high spirits. The faces of all of them relaxed and wore smiles as Effie rolled into the pull-out bed with Susan. Bill and his father had been using the pullout. Effie helped them make a lark out of sleeping on the floor. The next day being Saturday the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - children did not have to go to school. Ben worked a half day. Effie and the children working together and making a high game of everything soon got the small apartment in ship shape. Going through the shelves in the very small kitchen, Effie realized just how bad things were. She found beans, a few eggs, one square of butter, part of a loaf of bakery bread, some sacks containing a little macaroni, some brown sugar, and a handful of rice—only these! How different from her own pantry! Her shelves were filled with many things found on the country table: bacon, eggs— plenty of them, jams, jellies and numberless cans of fancy "city food". Then there was her basement: bottles of fruit, vegetables, meats, bins of apples, potatoes, carrots, cabbage and onions. In the cooler stood lovely rich milk, butter and cream. She had never really appreciated these things so much as she did now, realizing how difficult it must be to keep house without them. She must bring herself to the task - of finding just how bad Sandra's condition was. Most important she must find some way to bring them all out of their mentally depressed state. It wouldn't do to have this going on longer. Of course, she didn't know just what was wrong with Sandra, but with half an eye she could see that she was underfed and terribly worried. Well, she would have all those problems out with Ben when he came home in the afternoon. IN the afternoon Effie sent the children out to skate on the ice in the park. Sandra under the influence of Effie's kind rubbing and her nourishing lunch, dozed off into a restful sleep. Ben and Effie sat down at the kitchen table to settle the many problems facing this unhappy family. First, and easiest settled, was Sandra's condition. Ben said the doctor had given her a number of examinations to determine just what the trouble was. It had been decided that she was just generally run down and worn out, with her nerves a complete wreck. "So you see," Ben pointed out, "she needs rest, good food, and fresh air. 'Then when she is stronger, if she will have her tonsils out, the doctor feels that she will be almost new again." "We will settle this first," insisted Effie. "She will come home with me. You and the children can manage alone. In the country she will get all of the things she needs. We have a good doctor who can take care of her tonsils. Now let us get on to the other worries." In going over the financial figures they found that Ben had been able to save a fair equity out of the big house, but it had been used for the purchase of other unproductive property. Ben told Effie how they had stored their furniture, because Sandra couldn't bear to part with it. She couldn't give up the idea of sometime coming back to her old place. However, since they had been snubbed so much by their old friends, Sandra had lost interest in going back. He told her that even the apartment was too expensive when he considered his present salary, especially when he kept the children in their schools. 104 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With a sweeping hand it was decided to sell all of the furniture except that which was needed. The equity was to be put into a small place in the suburbs, one that had a chicken coop and room for a small kitchen garden. Then the children were to leave their private schools and enroll in the public school nearest their new home. 'Togcther Effie and Ben went over and over his salary to budget it to the best possible advantage. 'They finally arranged things so that Ben wouldn't have to drop his insurance; the children wouldn't have so many clothes, but they would get along very well if they were careful. Standing up, stretching his legs, straightening his shoulders, Ben said, "I feel like a man let loose from a trap. I have been so stunned by everything that I haven't been able to think. When I remember how we held on to that large house, hoping things would change and wasting money, I could kick myself. Now I'm going out to hunt the best suburban house at the most reasonable price I can find. It'll be 'grand for the children. I know I'm going to be happier." As he was putting on his overcoat Ben turned to Effie, "Say, please, will you forgive me? I've always figured you a sort of 'high and mighty' person. You're a 'peach.' Believe me I’ll not forget it soon." A WEEK later Effie and her sister left on the electric for the farm. As the country scenes slid by Effie remembered Ben's words — "high and mighty" person — maybe that was what everyone ir the village thought. That was her trouble! She looked down on people—not on a level with them. The country seemed unusually lovely. 'The February winds were melting the snow, and here and there the road showed black. The mud looked deep, rich and sticky. She loved it. How she loved it! The city had lost its glamor. She knew now that it was the way a person lived not where he lived that made him happy. It was a spring thawing. Her pride and heart and the country were thawing together. "We're staying thawed out too," Effie spoke out loud. "Thawing what?" asked her sister. "Nothing—or everything—I don't realize what I'm saying I'm so happy to be going home. Oh see, Sandra, there is the village! Isn't it lovely! There is even a little green grass to the south of the big trees. It ls a real spring thaw!"