YZ IN How Psychology can Help Me as an Adult By Mark K. Allen, Psychologist, Utah State Training School (Address, Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1938) CENTRAL theme of Latter-day Saint philosophy is that the spirit of man is eternal and that it progresses through the experiences it undergoes. 'The improvement of self through service to others becomes the great aim of life, since this improvement fits one better for the service he is to render. In the life to come. But we need not think of eternal progress in vague and abstract terms: rather we should think of it as the daily improvement of habits, the acquiring of new information and outlooks, and the acquisition of new skills. We prepare ourselves for eternity to the extent that we succeed in getting along well with people, spread happiness into the lives of others, and mutually assist each other in reaching a higher plane of living, as well as in complying with the more formal requirements of the Church. Formation and revision of habits is one way of moving in the direction suggested above. Habits are formed only as there is incentive to acquire them. Three steps are necessary for the acquiring of a new habit: first, ect a clear conception of the goal of the habit you wish to form and a clear idea of the reasons why you think it is important; then, analyze the results of your efforts to determine exactly what methods: lead most directly to the goal; and finally, repeat the proper acts as often as possible once they have been recognized.- "Good intentions" are not always enough to form good habits; we must make sure the habits we are to form are important, and not simply mental gymnastics to show that we can do what we set out to do. Likewise, we should not undertake tasks that are too new to us, but rather choose habits which are necessary and which we feel morally certain we can achieve. Choose habits that are concrete and definite, not generalities like abstract "goodness". Many a person's will is paralyzed because he has formed the vicious habit of trying to form new habits and to do tasks that are too difficult and which force him to fail. The power to do, or will power, grows by our successes more than by our failures. We need not think of the formation and revision of habits as being something only for the young. Popular opinion as to the inability of adults to learn is in error. Recent experiments have shown that there is very little decline in learning ability from one's twenties until after one's sixties. New tasks can actually be learned as well by people in middle life as at any other time, provided the incentive is there. Unfortunately, many adults lack the incentive to take up new endeavors,—new skills, subject matter, and outlooks. People differ greatly in the way they change with age, just as they differ in intelligence or personality; but speaking of most people, there is no need for discouragement as to the mature person's ability to learn almost as well as he did when he was young., In fact, faith that one is able to continue his progress gives a kind of 106 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hope which itself promotes learning. "Keeping one's hand in" learning activities helps us to keep plastic and adaptable to new conditions, partly because it keeps up our confidence in our learning ability. 'This ability to make changes in one's life as needed is very valuable as old age approaches. Habits must then be revised according to new physical needs, changing conditions in the home as the children marry, and other changes in the home picture. Old age need not be a period of despair and unhappiness provided one has made the changes that are required, and provided that new interests are acquired to fill up vacancies left by the marriage of the children. WE are told by modern psychology that learning has much to do with the way we react emotionally. Emotional habits are among the most important we have, since they relate so closely to our ability to get along with people and the general happiness-tone of our lives. Emotions have a physical basis which makes them linger sometimes after the condition which gives rise to them has been removed. 'Thus, we say people "get out on the wrong side of the bed," or they go around "with a chip on their shoulder'. When we are in an emotional state, we are likely to make the wrong response to new situations which arise. For example, after we have had a rather unsatisfactory argument with someone, we are likely to proceed to the next contact we have with people in an argumentative mood which is likely to lead us into more difficulties. A chemical substance, adrenalin, is poured into our blood which persists for some time after an anger or fear emotion, which may help to account for this "hanging on" feeling after the danger or provocation has been removed. We become angry or afraid when circumstances get out of control. When someone frustrates our plans, we generally become angry. The mental result of anger is the reduction of intelligent control; hence, we say "he is blind with anger". The emotion of anger in primitive times had a valuable place in combat, in that it increased physical endurance and power. But in modern life, we seldom must meet anger situations with combat. We have cultivated our emotional life until we more often fight with words than with fists. In modern living our emotional reactions must be more brainy, more intelligent, if they are not to lead us into difficulties. To gain control of our emotions we must delay our reactions until we can take an intelligent look at what is required. Intelligent control of our emotions is one of the best signs of emotional maturity, of being truly grown up. Fear is much like anger in its physical basis and in its relation to intelligent action. While in anger the usual response is that of attack or ageression, in fear the response is that of withdrawal or retreat. We fight when we are angry and run when we are afraid. But in modern society again, running from the things we fear is not always required, because today we fear physical dangers less than loss of security in the love of others, or economical security, for example. Nevertheless, even in fears of this kind we most often have a tendency to withdraw, not to want to know the "awful truth". Fear is based on uncertainty and lack of knowledge of what is going to happen, or, knowing what is to hap- ~ pen, not knowing how to prevent it. Knowledge is the best antidote in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY either case. To dissipate fears of any kind we should investigate, find out all of the facts. Often this convinces us that there is nothing to fear; in other cases it fortifies us to meet the inevitable, and in still other cases it leads to ways of avoiding the impending danger. THE great test of how one has succeeded in revising his habits, in gaining control over his emotions, appears in the ability to get along with people. To get along with others we must recognize that they have egos as well as we do. Consideration for the happiness of others generally redounds to one's own happiness. Learn to recognize the hobbies and enthusiasms of others if you would get along with them. People with inferiority feelings often have difficulty getting along with people because they are too absorbed in themselves to be generous with praise and recognition of the interests of others. Marriage is the great testing ground for personality. Here all of the virtues and flaws of one's nature are brought into full view. Poor emotional control makes marriage difficult, and so does the inability to change one's habits to conform to the new ways of life which are inevitable when marriage is undertaken. Many marital difficulties are the result of failure to grow up emotionally—children unable to go alone without the help of their parents, and parents who are unwilling to let the child grow to full maturity and find his or her own way. Training for happy married life should begin in the cradle. Marriage is a very complex relationship, and the causes of discord are legion. Dr. Terman of Stanford has recently published the results of an interesting study on marriage in which he investigated thoroughly the personalities of a large number of couples who were happy in marriage and compared them with a large number of divorced couples. He found that among the factors which contribute to happiness in marriage were the following: having had happy parents, a happy childhood, firm but not harsh home discipline, parents who were frank about sex, and the possession of happy temperament. - Factors which he found contributed to unhappy marriages were the following: unhappy temperament, too much difference between the intelligence of the husband and wife, wife's slovenly appearance, and sexual incompatability. Happiness in marriage is perhaps the most important preparation for eternal progress, as well as contentment throughout this life. Children are, of course, an important part of the picture. In later maturity children and happy home life are often the means of fighting off a feeling of emptiness and despair. THE problem of marriage involves many other persons besides those who are parties to the marriage. One of our most difficult tasks in later maturity is that of being a good mother-in-law. If a young person is properly trained emotionally through childhood and adolescence, the "mother-in-law" problem would not be a serious one. This is the problem of emotional weaning. The mother must gradually permit the child to assume mature status without too much interference. She can do this only by exercising great emotional control herself, because to step aside and see the child throw off his cr her dependence upon her is not an easy task. Training for this weaning should begin in child- 108 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hood and should be almost complete by the end of adolescence. In some cases missions or a period at school away from home are valuable in bringing about the transition from youth into maturity. When weaning is not complete, there is likely to be much interference on the part of the parent after the child is married, and this interference has made mothers-in-law famous as the object of all kinds of jokes. A few suggestions are offered as to what a mother-in-law can do to promote a happy married life for her child: (1) substitute the "companion attitude" for the "mother attitude," and avoid taking a prominent place in the new household by living there or dictating what to do; (2) keep out of the quarrels of the child with his or her "in-laws"; (3)guard against gaining personal emotional satisfaction by being too lavish and over-solicitous with the grandchildren; (4) be courageous in accepting the fact that your child has transferred his or her major affection to someone else. These are a few of the ways in which science tries to aid in the solving of human problems. We have tried to make the doctrine of progress concrete and real, to show that it consists of making good adjustments to everyday needs, and to emphasize that progress is possible by aiming at attainable personal improvement and intelligently pursuing these well defined goals.