Julia Murdock Farnsworth
The passing of Sister Julia Murdock Farnsworth at her home in Salt Lake City, December 27, 1938, removed from our midst a choice spirit and a beloved and admired Latter-day Saint woman. Sister Farnsworth, mother of our present General Secretary, Julia A. F. Lund, devoted many years of her life to advancing the work of the Relief Society organization, serving as a member of the General Board from April 4, 1899, to April 2, 1921. She often said that next to her own family the Relief Society held her love. It is not strange that this would be true. The motivating spirit of Relief Society, love of God and love of humanity, motivated her life. The following message taken from Volume II of the Relief Society Magazine, published in 1915, and sent as a greeting to the Relief Society sisters by Sister Farnsworth is typical of her:
"We as the children of one great Eternal Parent, in this big world of ours, are cemented by a bond of common interest, a tie of universal love, if we cultivate our affections unselfishly, if we follow the teachings of our Savior, 'Do unto others as we wish to be done by'. For as every star in the firmament tends to light up the heavens by night, so will each good deed, noble life, and worthy thought of our Latter-day Saint women assist in brightening, bettering and glorifying the name of our Heavenly Father's people, for such we profess to be."
Sister Farnsworth did not confine her activities to her Church, she was also prominently identified with the educational and literary development of Utah. A charter member of the Daughters of the Revolution she was also one of the founders of the Daughters of the Pioneers and of the Daughters of the Mormon Battalion. Her charm, intelligence, and love of humanity made her one of the beloved and valuable women of the Church and state. We extend to Sister Lund and to the other members of her family our gratitude for the life of their mother and invoke the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon them in their time of sorrow.
"Education is essentially the process of discovering the values of life.... Unless education places the higher and more spiritual values first, we must expect distorted human characters and social disaster to result. We cannot sow the wind without reaping the whirlwind."?Charles A. Ellwood, Professor of Sociology, Duke University.