Anniversary Day 66 THE Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," the opening song of that memorable meeting held March 17, 1842, in Joseph Smith's store in Nauvoo, Illinois, gave voice to the spirit that burned within the hearts of eighteen women gathered together, that a prophet of God might organize them into a society for service and self-development. With the passing years the hearts of thousands of women have burned with the spirit of Relief Society. Its benevolent administrations have been a blessing; its endless opportunities for self-expression have brought joy and development to Latter-day Saint women; its achievements have been glorious. March 17 the gratitude of Relief Society members will be expressed in Anniversary Day observances. Thousands of women in twenty-two nations will "honor those who fashioned for good the ideals we cherish". An entire sisterhood will pause to take thought of the divinity within our organization, of the inspiration that guides its destinies, and will pray that it may know an even more glorious future. Therefore it seems fitting that Anniversary Day programs interpret the spirit of the organization. Though not necessarily somber and formal, a certain dignity and appropriateness should characterize them. N understanding of the purposes of the organization, an appreciation of its history and accomplishments, an insight into the lives of those who have contributed to its onward march is evidenced in many interesting programs of the past. An entertaining and appropriate program centering around Eliza Roxey Snow, the first general president of the Society in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, was given in one of the wards. Sister Snow was presented in a brief biographical sketch as patriot, poetess, and religious leader. 'This was followed by the rendition of "O My Father", that inspired gem for which she will always be loved and remembered. Other familiar songs, the words of which were her compositions, were rendered as vocal and instrumental numbers. Two of her poems were read, "I Love My Flag" and "My Heart Is Fix'd". Concluding the program a brief explanation of the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poetry Contest was given, and the prize winning poem for the year was read by its composer. Each of our general presidents have been unusually endowed, their contributions unique, and might be similarly featured on Anniversary Day programs. Ward Relief Society histories lend themselves to profitable entertainment. A recent Anniversary program dramatized the most outstanding contribution of each administration to the growth of the Ward organization. A reader introduced each scene by reading explanatory excerpts directly from the history and concluded the scene by introducing the sister who was president of that particular administration. This ward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 87 was fortunate in having each past president present. A bouquet of flowers was presented to each, and a brief response given. The Singing Mothers rendered musical numbers between each scene. Delightful entertainments have been given featuring various phases of the Relief Society program—welfare, education, homemaking, etc. A large replica of the Magazine was utilized by one ward in its Anniversary program. 'The Magazine was opened, like a door, by a woman beautifully gowned in white, representing Relief Socicty. From the pages of the Magazine the sisters stepped forth and formed effective still pictures of each phase of the work; each picture was introduced by a reader. Special musical numbers were rendered. This program closed with women ranging in age from very young to those of advanced years, representing Relief Society membership. The last scene was most effective, summing up the meaning of Relief Society in the lives of its members. Wholesome social contacts have always been encouraged. How many delightful Relief Society birthday parties have been given, where tables have been made beautiful with the Relief Society colors, gold and blue (never green and white), centered with a birthday cake, where delicious luncheons have been served and clevcr toasts given. Many of our sisters are almost entirely dependent upon the Church for their social life. What an ideal time is our Anniversary for providing this needed entertainment. Anniversary programs should utilize Relief Society members as far as possible. If the entertainment is given at night the use of children should be avoided. Relief Society is an organization of mothers working for the best interests of children. Little children should not be deprived of sleep in order to entertain mothers. If games are used in our entertainments they should be games which challenge the interest of mature women. SHOULD those eighteen charter members of Relief Society step from the pages of history on March 17, 1939, would they be proud and happy to join with your ward in its Anniversary observance? Would they fee] again the spirit felt that March 17, 1842? Would they see their ideals a living issue, magnified, bringing joy to every Latter-day Saint woman? Anniversary Day programs should be more than ordinary programs, with the usual run of music and verse. 'They should stir us afresh with an appreciation of our organization. They should bring together the women of the Church in a spirit of love and fellowship. Anniversary Day should be a day when every woman has a good time, when she returns to her home grateful for the completeness of the organization and her membership in it, singing in her heart, "For glorious achievement throughout the passing years, For wond'rous devotion that ever endears, We honor and love those who fashioned for good The ideals we cherish, ennobling womanhood,"