PEARL BUCK, with 110 other notable guests, sat at a banquet table in the royal castle in Stockholm on December 11 and received from the hands of King Gustav himself the Nobel prize for the greatest contribution to literature. The prize, beside the Nobel medal was $37,975. What the emotions of this modest woman were can only be imagined. The prize was for no single book but the entire body of the author's work. No other author has ever brought before the world so much knowledge of China and her people. DOROTHY THOMPSON, popular commentator, in a recent broadcast gave an amusing dissertation on women's hats. She cleverly demonstrated that the best dressed women are those who wear becoming clothes, regardless of fashion, a fact so poignantly told by two leading couturiers in their books, "Designing Women" and "Fashion is Spinach". OMEN of Rumania may be called to military service and mobilized in case of war according to a recent government decree.  MARY PICKFORD, piquant, charming as ever, gives the following explanation of her youthful looks, "Time is the noise the clock makes and means nothing else to? SVANHILDE LARSON, daughter of a Norwegian skipper, as her father's ship was floundering to destruction in a stormy sea, clung to a broken mast and sang all the songs she knew over and over to keep the sailors working until all were rescued. JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH and Elizabeth H. Peery, two notable Utah women, died during the holiday season. Both were daughters of pioneers and active in state and Church work. ZONA GALE, a popular novelist and winner of the Pulitzer prize in 1921, died last December. MARGARET SANGER'S "Woman of Destiny," an autobiogtaphy, Anne Parish's "Mr. Despondency's Daughter," and the lovely new story "Song of Years'' by Bess Streeter Aldrich are new novels for 1939. SA JOHNSON having lost her suit against the Western Air Express for the death of her husband, Martin Johnson, will have to postpone her hunting trip to Fast Africa for some time. KATHARINE HEPBURN in "Holiday," Alice Brady in "Old Chicago," and Wendy Hiller in "Pygmalion," are listed by New York critics as best actresses for 1938. Radio Message By Kate M. Barker (Station KSL, Monday, December 19, 1938) —IT is a joyous thing to have our feeling of thanksgiving and praise expressed in such beautiful music. It is a call to each of us to "light our torches and mount the heights'. To be part of a world getting ready for Christmas is a wonderful experience, for Christmas is a kind and charitable time, a loving, forgiving time. Men and women the world over, wherever the spirit of Christ has entered, are getting ready for Christmas, moved by a common impulse, exhibiting a common joy. Little children are looking forward to Christmas with faces radiant with expectation, with glowing exquisite dreams, because of the faith and hope and love which is theirs. This faith and hope and love is the real spirit of Christmas, and all who have this real spirit face life and the future with the same light in their eyes and the same expectation in their hearts. How grateful we are that, "God so loved the world that He gave. His only Begotten Son." How grateful we are for the testimony of the Son that, "Though a man dic yet shall he live." How grateful we are for the glorious promise, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." Can we do less to show our gratitude than by heeding His plea, "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another." Paul, one of the most learned men of his day, came to this conclusion, "Though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains, and have not charity I am nothing. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." These are the things which endure, these are the things which fill all hearts if we have the true Christmas spirit. Because of the faith and hope and love in our hearts we, the women of Relief Society the world over, at this Christmas time, rededicate our lives to the work of the Master, pledging ourselves to labor with renewed zeal to make life around us more noble, richer, more fruitful and sweet. We stand at the threshold of a new year with an aspiration, a purpose, a prayer that we may so grow in spiritual sensitiveness that we may sense the needs and have the inspiration to meet the needs; that if there is a kind word that should be spoken we may speak it; if there is one soul who needs encouragement, help or comfort, we may give it; if there is need for a testimony, we may bear it. This is our best gift, our gold and frankincense and myrrh, which we offer to Him whose birth we celebrate.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight, Editor Emma A. Empey, Manager Annie Wells Cannon, Assistant
Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford
Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker
Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal
Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
Motto—Charity Never Faileth