[Vol9 | May 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Platte River]

A Pioneer Mother's Grave on the Platte River The long, winter trail between Winter Quarters and Salt Lake City was marked more than once with the graves of wornout mothers, sick children, and ague-smitten fathers. One of the most interesting graves thus left is that of Mrs. Rebecca Burdick Winters, who died under the most piteous circumstances. Her grave was left there for many years beside the sluggish waters of the Platte river. When the Burlington Route was surveying for their road through Iowa, in 1902, they discovered this grave, and their line should have gone directly through it, but the superintendent of the surveying party could not thus desecrate the last resting place of a Pioneer Mother, so he ordered his men to turn back, and he made a detour of several miles in the survey in order to leave the grave in its lonely isolation. The railroad put up a neat fence around the grave and sent a message to the office _in Salt Lake City to discover through the press if there were any relatives of Rebecca Winters, stating that if such relatives could be found and chose to erect a monument, the railroad officials would attend to its erection and see that everything was properly done. They named the place "Winters" and since that day tourist trains stop there as one of the points of interest. During the visit of these same officials later, in Salt Lake City, they inquired at the Bureau of Information for the relatives of this "prairie mother" and were taken to the home of President Heber J. Grant, who was an apostle at this time, as his wife, Mrs, Augusta Grant, is a granddaughter of Mrs. -Winters. The Saints have heard President Grant refer to this incident in connection with his vivid sermons on our Latter-day Saint hymns. He refers in his remarks always to the last verse of the hymn, "Come, come, ye Sains," desiring that the singers should  not leave the verse off, which is carved in stone on the monument. The "tire" referred to, is noticeable in the picture. The following account was written by Mrs. Mary Ann Winters, daughter-in-law of the Prairie Mother, some twenty years ago: "TI saw an account in the Deseret News of Thursday, Oct. 17, of the finding of the grave of Rebecca Winters, on the Platte river, near the old emigrant trail. The folllowing items may be of interest:. "Sister Rebecca Winters was indeed a pioneer in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and was baptized in connection with her husband and her father's family, in June, 1823, in Jamestown, N. Y., at the outlet of Lake Chautauqua, near Buffalo, where her husband was operating a saw mill—she boarding the hands—among them Alden Burdick her brother, William Pratt, Zebedee Coltrin, and others, whose names I do not call to mind, eight in number, who all received the gospel. The following November started on the journey to Kirtland, where Brother Winters enlisted in Zion's camp, and after his return was engaged in working in the temple, Sister Winters also boarding others that were working there. On churning days she would send buttermilk for them to drink, for that temple, like the one in Nauvoo, was built on short rations. But our heavenly Father accepted of their humble offerings and faithful labors, and poured out his spirit in rich abundance when the building was completed. "Their next journey was with the Saints to Illinois, where they remained, sharing in the persecutions of those days. "Sister Winters was the daughter of Gideon Burdick, who joined the Revolutionary army at the age of 18 years as a drummer boy, and continued to the close of the war; he was with Washington when he crossed the Delaware, and related the circumstances to his grandchildren. He died near Nauvoo, on April 5, 1844, at the age of 98 years, firm in the faith of the gospel, and requesting his children to be sure and do the work for him in the temple that he could not live to do himself. Her mother, Katherie Robertson Burdick, died in early womanhood, leaving five little children. Her death occurred at the birth of her youngest son, Alden, who, in after years, was the first man ordained a seventy in this dispensation, and Sister Rebecca's husband, Hiram Winters, being the second to receive these blessings, under the hands of the Prophet Joseph, her oldest brother, Thomas Burdick, being the scribe. Brother and Sister Winters received their patriarchal blessings in the temple at Kirtland, and before blessings  were recorded in books, from Father Joseph Smith, but while they 'were living on the prairie near Nauvoo, the mob came and they had to flee to the city for safety. Among other things not found upon their return, was the large bible containing the family records and the blessings, therefore the children have never had the privilege of reading them. "The family was still in Nauveo at the time of the battle and after being driven out moved to Burlington, Iowa, where they went earnestly to work to get means to take them to the mountains. Being prospered and guided by the Lord, they bought young stock, and by the spring of 1851 their cattle had grown strong enough to bear them on their way, and they moved on as far as Kanesville; there they remained one year. While there, Brother Winters was engaged in making wagons to assist the poor, and his faithful helpmate in preparing for the wants of her family on the long journey that was before them, with patience she toiled through the long winter, while others were engaged in the dance and festivities of the season, switching, stitching many many suits, and those she had no time to complete, were carefully cut and placed away for other hands 'to finish. This devoted mother had strong premonitions that she would not live to accomplish the journey, and when friends would be talking of the joys they anticipated on reaching the valley, she would say, "But I shall never live to see them.", "Tt was late in June, 1852, when they crossed the Missouri river, and they proceeded prosperously along until about half the journey was over, when cholera appeared in the camp. Many were stricken and some died. It was on the morning of - August 15, as they were about leaving the camp ground, that Sister Winters went to a tent containing the sick, and as she looked in she threw up her hands; the sight that met her was appalling to her sympathetic nature, for she beheld the dying agonies of a neighbor and a friend; she had not felt well through the night, and from that moment she was stricken down. The company of ten, to which she belonged, had traveled but a short distance when it was found necessary to go into camp again that something might be done to ease her sufferings. Willing hearts and faithful hands worked with their might, but by the noon hour her spirit had taken its flight, her journey was ended, and they laid her to rest by the pilgrim's pathway. There could be no coffin to shelter her form, but into the deep grave a bed was lowered, and after being suitably robed, and tenderly wrapped, she was laid therein, then the few boards that could be spared from the wagon were placed across the vault and the grave was covered, a making one of the precious milestones that mark the way to ion:  *Twas hard to leave them thus, alone, With naught to mark their tomb, er And wander on to parts unknown, 'Mid sorrow, tears and gloom. * * * *k * But he who notes the sparrow fall will Surely watch o'er these. "In the present case a way was provided to mark the lone grave, and it seems to have been a lasting one. From a broken down emigrant wagon that was near by, a tire was taken, and after being cut in two by the skillful hands of Brother William Reynolds, with a cold chisel, he carved the name of Rebecca Winers thereon, and when Brother Winters saw it, he prophetically exclaimed "that name will remain there forever." And now, after nearly fifty years, it has been discovered and in good condition. After reaching the "Valley," Brother Winters and family made their home in Pleasant Grove, where he died in 1887.' She left five children; Oscar Winters and Mrs. Helen Hickerson of Pleasant Grove, Hiram Winters of Mount Pleasant, and Mrs. Rebecca Tucker of Fairvew, Sanpete county. Alonzo Winters, the late bishop of Hoytsville, Summit county, died at that place about twenty-one years ago. The grandchildren and great grandchildren are very numerous, and to many of her posterity the gospel of Jesus Christ is more precious than any earthly treasure. "Poor, weary souls, who were laid at rest Beside the great highway, Your faithful works will follow you 'Till the resurrection day. "A fitting tribute to the memory of this dear sister was uttered by Patriach Zebedee Coltrin, a short time before his death. In speaking of her, he said, "If ever there was a good woman lived on the earth, Sister Rebecca Winters was one." A Witness. These verses "On The Oregon Trail' were written by a lady traveler who was so deeply impressed with the lonely grave that she sent the following lines to the officials of the railroad. Naturally she thought the Pioneer Mother was on her way io Oregon: ON THE OREGON TRAIL By Anne M. McQueen Out on the desert, barren and wide, Watered alone by immigrant tears, Upon the Oregon Trial she died— Rebecca Winters, aged fifty years. A PIONEER MOTHER'S GRAVE Seeking the land of the storied West, Opulent land of gold and fame, Leaving her hearthstone warm, with the rest Emigrating out of the east, she came. Maybe the heart in her bosom died For grief of some little grave back home, Leaving all for the man at her side— For women must follow where men would roam: 'Twas famine, or fever, or wan despair, That hushed the cry of her silent breast; Close by the trail where the wagons fare, Rebecca Winter was. Laid to rest. Somebody—husband, or son or sire,— Roughly wrought, seeing not for tears, This for her grave, on a sunken tire: "Rebecca Winter, aged fifiy years." Long she lay by the Oregon Trail, With sagebrush growing above her head, And coyotes barked in the moonlight, pale, And wagon-trains moved on by the dead: Till, bearing compass and line and chain, Men-came, marking a way to the west, Daring the desert's drouth and its pain, A dauntless heart in each dauntless breast. And, stumbling into a sagebrush bed, The lineman read, through a mist of tears, On a wagon-tire that marked her head: "Rebecca Winters, aged fifty years." "Boys," said the leader, "we'll turn aside, Here, close by the trail, her grave shall stay, For she came first—in this desert wide, Rebecca Winters holds right of way!" Today the train glides fast to the West, Rounding the curve where the grave appears, A white shaft marking her place of rest— Rebecca Winters, dead fifty years! Her's is the shapen and turf-grown mound, And the name carved on the stone today; 241 But the thought—'tis all for the graves unfound— The others who died upon the way!