[Vol9 | May 1922 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Old Fashioned Thrift Coral J. Black]

Old-Fashioned Thrift THROUGH THE EYES OF A MERE MAN By Coral J. Black Until a year ago I was addicted to the restaurant habit. For years my work had called me hither and yon about the country, necessitating stopovers at all manner of hotels and near hotels. Consequently the workings of the average home kitchen were as a closed book to me. I had no kitchen problem to worry over, except as it was reflected in letters of protest from the home office over the vaulting proclivity of my expense account. But I was dimly cognizant of the fact that the benedicts in our organization, as elsewhere, were confronted with a genuine problem. The unprecedented cost of necessities, to say nothing of the nationwide campaign for home thrift, made the topic of kitchen waste an extremely popular theme. One was forever hearing what the starving hordes of Europe could do if they but had the thousands of tons of edible garbage sent each week from American kitchens. I often speculated, in a lazy way, about these conditions and wondered vaguely why something wasn't done about it. Wasn't the American housewife equal to the task of conducting her kitchen without waste? Couldn't she practice, to some extent, at least, the wonderful thrift of the French? But having no kitchen problem of my own, all my ponderings on the subject were rather hazy and impersonal. Late in 1918 my work took me to a town in southeastern Alaska—a city it is called by its optimistic commercial club. For a matter of fact, it is a bustling little center, the largest and busiest town in that part of the territory, notwithstanding the rival claims of its neighbors. Knowing that I was destined to spend an indefinite number of months—possibly years—at my new post, and despairing, after the third day, of surviving a protracted course of restaurant meals, as served by the kitchen kings of the North, I looked around for a private boarding house. By the greatest of good luck, I shortly found myself billeted with a private family, not a boarding house by any means, but a good old-fashioned home. I was taken in with the understanding that I was to take "pot luck" with the family. Nothing could have suited me better. The lady of the house, Mrs. Graham, was a gray haired, motherly old soul, the very sight of whom brought back nearly 256, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE forgotten memories of Thanksgiving days spent at grandfather's farm. It was in this well-kept, homey, comfortable American domicile that I learned what genuine kitchen thrift is; not penurious pinching, but sound, sensible old-fashioned thrift. The scraps that leftithis kitchen via the garbage can would not have supported a consumptive canary. Waste! There positively wasn't any. Every morsel of left-overs was incorporated into some dainty dish for another meal. The meals for each ensuing day were carefully planned beforehand and practically all the shopping was done by Mrs. Graham herself, for she was old-fashioned in this regard as well as in numerous other ways, and strictly maintained that the first great waste in the average home took place in the buying. No tainted meat or rancid butter, half spoiled cabbage or jaundiced eggs, slightly frozen potatoes or other vegetables, short weights or "substitute" orders ever found their way into her kitchen. And, strange as it may seem, every grocer and butcher in town was sort o' wise to the fact and refrained from offering her any but the best.: I don't mean to infer that she bought the highest priced cuts of meat or indulged in fruits or vegetables out of season. The very thought of such extravagance would have given the dear, thrifty old soul nervous prostration. What I mean is that for every dollar spent she received 100 cents worth of strictly prime goods. The clean plate was the order of the day and, as I remarked before, all ieft-overs, from the unused portion of Sunday's roast to the bread crumbs from the cutting board were disguised, "hidden, camouflaged and sent forth in fancy dress to the next meal. A bit of left-over cereal was added to the pancake batter, I shall never accustom myself to call them by any other name, And, ch boy! What a delightful crispness it gives them, the nut flavor, the so-different something which I am at a loss to describe. I have often wondered since sojourning in these northern latitudes why the women of the states do not make use of the sourdough pot, which seems to be essentially Alaskan, It is a sort of self-starting affair which requires neither yeast nor baking powder to put the kick in it. A little flour, water and sugar are mixed together and allowed to ferment. After this it seems to become a species of perpetual motion. All that is necessary now is to put a little flour and water in the sourdough pot in the evening, stir it thoroughly, set it on the range until morning, and lo! There is pancake batter, fit for the gods. Of course, they add a little salt, and, come to think of it, a pinch of soda. The
OLD  sourdough pot is never washed out—to the true Alaskan such an act would be little short of sacrilege—but is set away with what dough adheres to the sides left as a starter. One of the nightmares of my restaurant life had been hash. The word had been synonymous in my mind with various disreputable and questionable scraps combined under one title "hash!" And I admit that my stomach sounded tremolo one morning when Mrs. Graham questioned brightly, "Hash, Mr. Briggs?" "No," trembled on my lips, but I saw Mr. Graham regarding me with humorous eyes over his own liberal helping, "It tastes skookum," he remarked. I conquered my aversion and took a little. My surprise was genuine. That hash was delicious beyond belief. I asked for a second helping and— but perhaps I'd better not admit further weakness right here in public. I surely agreed with the head of the house that it was "hyiu skookum." My curiosity overcame my natural modesty and I questioned my hostess, "Mrs. Graham, why does this hash look and taste so different to the restaurant-made article?" "Well, there may be various reasons, of course, but I think most hash is ruined by the addition of water. It should still be when it reaches the table, just tiny particles of food blended into a harmonious whole. The addition of water, a common practice, produces a pasty, mushy mess." - There is an item worth remembering. Don't spoil your hash by adding water to it. It was about this stage of the game that Mrs. Graham began to give me all sorts of small data anent kitchen economy. My unusual interest—unusual in a man—seemed to amuse her greatly. She may have thought I was contemplating "bachelor apartments,'' or that I had in view the training of a Mrs. Briggs, or she may simply have been pleased at my genuine admiration of her ingenuity and thrift. One of her frequent and most delightful dishes was what she called "brown stew." This invariably followed beefsteak dinner and, according to Mrs. Graham, was made of bones, bits of trimmings and whatever pieces of steak were left on the platter. There are stews and stews, most of them a joke among men, but Mrs. Graham's brown stew bears no more similarity to the usual article that does chalk to cheese. This is her method: All pieces of meat were placed in a kettle with sufficient fat—butter or beef, suet preferred—to insure its frying to a deep rich brown. A few particles of onion were added and also browned, then all was covered with water and allowed to simmer until done. Now " seasoning, a few slices of potato, and a tablespoon of flour, also  browned, were added, and the ''brown stew" was ready for the table. I soon learned to watch for these delectable stews and nevex did tire of them, for each one seemed just a little more tasty and appealing than its predecessor. Another little dish which I never saw before or since was "cracklins." These were made of the fat portions or boiled or roast beef cut into tiny bits slightly salted and "crisped" in a frying pan. Served on a hot plate with French frys they fairly made a man's mouth water. One day Mrs. Graham made the remark that she had not purchased a drop of vinegar in ten years. "How can that be?" thought I. "We have homemade pickles, salads and various other ways in which vinegar is used constantly." Like Sherlock, I began to make important deductions. If she doesn't buy it she either begs, borrows, or—happy thought, makes it. The first two possibilties being duly eliminated, there remained but the truth—she makes her vinegar. But how? Later she explained tome that about ten years previous to her remark she bought five gallons of the best white wine vinegar. This was put in a twenty-gallon keg. To the "start" was added every speck of jelly, the tinsings from honey, syrup and molasses cans, left over fruit juice, carefully strained, and last but not least, all apple cores and parings were placed in glass jars covered with clear water and left in a warm place for a short time, the juice then being pressed through a muslin cloth and added to the vinegar barrel. And I rise right here to remark that there never was a commercial vinegar that could equal it in flavor. It was good enough to drink, and with prices hovering around $1 a gallon was no small economy. Mrs. Graham asked me one day at luncheon if I would stop at the butcher shop on my way home and get some sausage for her. Of course I couldn't very well refuse, so she gave me thirtyfive cents and admonished me to "see that you get full weight." When the butcher placed the infinitisimal amonut, thirty-five cents worth, on the: scales I wondered in my heart who would be the favored ones, for I well knew it would never reach around her crowd. Imagine my surprise when a platter generously heaped with tempting brown ovals were placed before me on the table. I just had to know what sort of magic was responsible and learned that two well beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sage and a cup of fine bread crumbs had turned the trick. Don't get sniffy, folks, and imagine it was a "substitute" dish. I never tasted better sausage in my life. "Steamed bread!' Oh, boys of the gripsack, doesn't that con-  jure up before your eyes great hunks of soggy bread served under that appellation. Just such a picture focused in my mental camera when Mrs. Graham announced one morning that this style of bread was to be served. But my fears were groundless, for the real article—slices of moist, steaming bread, most delicious when well buttered, followed immediately. There was no slightest suggestion of a super-abundance of water having ben used in the process. My surprise was so genuine that I was betrayed into asking: "Mrs, Graham, how did you manage it?" "Manage what?" "Why, to steam this bread so thoroughly without getting it water-soaked?"' "Oh, that was simple." And Mrs. Graham smiled delightfully, as she always did when I registered surprise at her cleverness. "A towel folded beneath the steamer absorbs ali surplus moisture, and it's one of the very best ways to dispose of stale bread." One day at the office I came upon a column of Kitchen Economics, in a magazine, and because I was hungry at the time, I suppose, they appealed to me and I carefully clipped them and took them to Mrs. Graham. "Doing her a big favor," thought I. It makes me squirm yet to think what a ninny I must have appeared to her. They were all concerning the use of macaroni, giving out as the big idea the economical qualities of macaronr as a food. Mrs. Graham read them through and smiled good humoredly. "Let me show you just why these recipes are of so little value from the standpoint of true economy. Take the first one. Here we have one cup of macaroni, one quarter pound of butter, one large sized can of oysters, etc. And again, one cup of macaroni, one pint of rich milk, one large lump of butter, one quarter pound of cheese, etc. "Don't you see that in every case the additions to the macaroni cost many times the price of the macaroni, and that the latter is the only ingredient they have economized on? "That's the very difficulty we housewives have in using most of these printed recipes. They call for unusual and often high priced ingredients when the ordinary woman wants to know how to use ordinary food and get the greatest value and variety from it. "T have often heard my mother remark that 'any one can cook when all they have to do is select what they wish, but it takes a real cook to contrive a meal from nothing,' and it appears to me 'that nowadays if people are to make ends meet women must contrive their meals from very little.  "Macaroni is a good food and cheap, if prepared simply. We will have some for luncheon tomorrow." And we did—boiled in milk and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter, and it was splendid. Mrs. Graham's methods and homely philosophy will both bear scrutiny and imitation. Plain food, if well prepared, appeals to men much stronger than the fancy, over-dressed dishes of the modern home. In fact, I have come to believe that overdress in the matter of food, as in the case of individuals, usually reveals a woeful lack of substantiality beneath its frills.