[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
— Shirley Taylor VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 41 (D & C 58:27). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 2, 1962 — "Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" Objective: 'To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged is that of giving love and service to others. LTHOUGH history is full of dramatic and_ world - shaping events, there probably never was a period more critical and yet more challenging than the present. 'There never was a time when the need was greater for men to be "anxiously engaged in a good cause." The word anxious means to be earnestly desirous, to be zealous and eager. It implies particular concern for both the present and the future. If we strive earnestly and with determination to help others we are "anxiously engaged in a good cause." More and more of our world's thoughtful observers are now coming to the conclusion that the only permanent solution to our heavy world problems lies in the area of service, brotherhood, and genuine love for one another. 'The Savior, who knew the solution to all mankind's problems, expressed this basic thought when he said that loving the Lord and our neighbor are the two commandments on which "hang all the law and the prophets." (See Matt. 22:36-40.) Many of us these days are asking ourselves how we can be anxiously engaged in a good cause and thus Page 536 make our personal contribution in meeting the critical demands of the time. Some of us might be tempted to conclude that the little contribution we might make would be lost in the face of the enormity of the world problems. 'The answer to this was dramatically portrayed in an incident which recently occurred in New York City. Crowds in that city's subways were startled not long ago to see, along with advertisements for soaps and toothpaste, a car card displaying the 'Ten Commandments. The advertisement was signed, "Paid for by a friend.' In due course newspaper reporters, sensing the possibility of a story, tried to learn who this unusual advertiser might be. After considerable research, and some difficult detective work, they learned that the friend was an ordhinary stenographer. 'This was her personal project motivated by the desire to influence others for good. When she was interviewed, the stenographer said she had read some place that "sometimes a small thing can change the world." 'To make this personal contribution, she had saved the cost of the advertisement, $400, from her personal earnings. f I LESSON DEPARTMENT Her personal contribution did much to focus attention on the Lord's commandments.. In our own search for a good cause in which we can be anxiously engaged, we need not seek such a dramatic method as described in the above experience. Our good cause may be service to others of a more personal, less publicized nature. We can be anxiously engaged in a good cause by sharing the saving truths of the gospel with our friends and neighbors; by seeking to lighten the loneliness, sorrow, and heartaches of those with whom we associate; and by encouraging and strengthening those who are downhearted and discouraged. It has been said, "The greatest of 537 the world's heroes could not by any series of acts of heroism do as much real good as any individual living his whole life in seeking, from day to day, to make others happy" (Jordan, Wm. George: Self-Control, page 191). Ee us, then, never allow the sun to set without making sure we have done some good, eased someone's burden, "cheered up the sad, and made someone feel glad." Let us always remember the words, "There are chances for work all around just now, opportunities nght in our way. Do not let them pass by, saying, 'sometime I'll try,' but go and do something today" (L. D. S. Hymns, page 58).