[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Quick | Author: Breeze]
[Quick Recipes for Busy Days Janet W. Breeze]
Quick  Recipes 
Janet  W.  Breeze 
\li7YTH  a  little  thought,  even  the  most  common  standby  foods  can  be  transformed 
^  ^     into  tempting  taste  tantalizers!     Try  these  recipes  for  busy  days. 
Shrimp  Chowder 
Dilute  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup  with  i  cup  evaporated  milk  and  %  cup  water. 
Add  one  4  to  5-ounce  can  of  drained,  tiny  deveined  shrimp. 
Heat.    Serves  4. 
Super  Burgers 
Brown  and  crumble  one  pound  ground  beef.  Sprinkle  meat  with  two  tbsp.  flour 
and  mix  well. 
Add  one  can  undiluted  onion  or  tomato  soup  and  mix  well. 
Spoon  onto  buns  for  one  of  the  quickest,  easiest  hot  sandwiches  you  ever  made. 
Quick  Casserole 
Cook  and  drain  one  cup  elbow  macaroni 
Add:  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
Yz    c.  milk  1  can  tuna,  drained 
Yi    tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  Cheddar  cheese  slices 
1  c.  or  small  can  drained,  cooked  peas  paprika 
Mix  well,  top  with  cheese  slices  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  paprika.  Bake  at  350° 
for  25-30  minutes,  or  until  heated  through.    Serves  6. 
Corned  Beef  Hash  Ring 
Pack  a  greased  ring  mold  with  two  one-pound  cans  corned  beef  hash.  Bake  at 
350°  F  about  30  minutes. 
Unmold  onto  serving  plate  and  fill  center  with  six  scrambled  eggs  sprinkled  with 
parsley.  Serves  6. 
One-Bowl  Meal 
Dilute  one  can  cream  of  tomato  soup  and  one  can  cream  of  pea  soup  with  equal 
parts  milk  and  combine.  Add  one  5-ounce  can  drained  and  flaked  crab  meat  or  tuna. 
Season  with  one  tbsp.  butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  in  baking  dish  and 
garnish  with  croutons.     Heat  in  oven  at  350°. 
Tuna  on  Toast 
Saute  one  medium-sized  diced  onion  until  transparent  and  golden.  Add  one 
can  drained  tuna,  one  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup,  and  %  cup  milk,  and  add  pepper 
to  taste.     Heat.     Spoon  over  toast,  or  if  you  prefer,  spoon  over  baked  potatoes. 
Quick  Thousand-Island  Dressing 
Mix  equal  parts  of  chili  sauce  and  mayonnaise  or  equivalent  salad  dressing. 
Page  518

for  Busy  Days 
Mix  and  bring  to  boil: 
No-Bake  Chocnut  Drops 
2  c.  sugar 
2  tbsp.  butter  or  shortening 
Then  add: 
2  tbsp.  cocoa 
Vi   c.  milk 
/4    tsp.  salt 
Vi    tsp.  vanilla 
/4    c.  peanut  butter 
Mix  well. 
Then  add:  2  c.  quick  uncooked  oatmeal. 
Mix  well. 
Drop  from  spoon  onto  waxed  paper  and  let  cool.     Yield:  about  3  dozen. 
At  Summer's  Edge 
Linnie  Fisher  Robinson 
Now  is  the  dreaming  summertime, 
For  grass  is  lush  upon  the  hills; 
Before  the  harvest's  gathered  in 
Nature  may  rest  while  time  fulfills. 
Man  lingers  out-of-doors  until 
A  chill  creeps  in  —  dark  drives  again; 
His  steps  are  ever  loath  to  leave 
What  he  can  never  quite  explain. 
Some  kinship  to  the  world  he  sees, 
The  part  that  speaks  within  his  heart; 
A  universal  tongue  he  knows 
And  treasures  silently  apart. 
Builder  of  cities  that  wall  him  in, 
Who,  like  a  prisoner,  must  yield. 
Yet  longs  for  that  he  does  not  name  — 
Communion  with  the  stones  and  field. 
Where  all  his  dreams  perceived  in  truth 
Reveal  each  loss  —  all  he  has  gained  — 
And  feeds  his  ever-growing  urge 
To  seek  and  find  the  unobtained. 
Page  519