[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Jesus | Author: Robinson]
[Jesus and the Land He Loved Christine H. Robinson]
2u*tiww/L  ItCte/u/oL 
Dorothy  /.  Robeits 
We  had  one  clay  of  wide  and  azure  water, 
Of  white  and  cHmbing  citadels  of  cloud; 
The  peace  that  is  a  silent  part  of  summer, 
A  ring  of  purple  mountains,  distant,  proud. 
We  saw  the  sunflowers  blazing  into  August, 
The  petal-banded  meadows  flowing  by, 
Swallows  hung  like  baubles  on  the  rushes; 
Lombardies  laced  the  sapphire  of  the  sky. 
We  had  one  afternoon  of  airy  stillness, 
And  stayed  to  watch  the  sunset  flare  and  burn. 
All  ours  —  the  mounded  hay,  the  amber  stubble 
Until  we  took  the  roadway  of  return. 
The  Cover:  The  Jordan  River  at  the  Supposed  Place  of  the  Baptism  of  Jesus 
Color  Transparency  by  Dr.  O.  Preston  Robinson 
Frontispiece:  Summer  in  the  Forest 
by  Arizona  Photographic  Associates 
Cover  Lithographed  in  Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press

'/WP{ 
Surprise!  What  a  lovely  new  look  the 
Magazine  (May  1962)  has.  It  was  like 
meeting  a  cherished  friend  in  a  new  dress. 
Thank  you  for  the  lovely  setting  for  my 
poem  ("On  a  May  Morning"  —  frontis- 
piece). I  have  had  several  calls  about  it. 
I  think  Paul  Roberts'  cover  and  the  ac- 
companying frontispiece  picture  are  both 
beautiful.  Some  of  my  earliest  writing 
was  done  for  the  Magazine,  and  I  have 
never  lost  the  delight  of  finding  my  work 
in  its  pages.  It  is  wonderful  to  know  you 
are  writing  for  sisters  the  world  over,  who. 
share  your  ideals  and  beliefs.  What  greater 
satisfaction  could  a  writer  have? 
— Ouida  Pedersen 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
It  is  a  blessing  to  have  our  leaders  so 
close  to  us  through  the  Magazine.  I  be- 
long to  a  small  branch  in  the  Servicemen's 
District  of  the  West  German  Mission,  and 
it  is  good  to  have  Zion  brought  to  us  in 
this  small  envelope  every  month.  I  espe- 
cially enjoyed  the  story  "Splendor  Before 
Dawn"  (second  prize  story,  February  1962, 
by  Sara  O.  Moss).  I  am  a  young  married 
woman  and  fully  realize  the  pitfalls  of 
easy  installments.  Fortunately,  this  has 
not  been  our  misfortune.  The  majority 
of  us  are  fortunate  to  have  a  wash  boiler, 
and  we  would  be  in  seventh  heaven  with 
a  secondhand  washer. 
— Clara  Lu  Waite 
A.  P.  O. 
New  York  City,  New  York 
I  am  enjoying  our  Magazine  thoroughly. 
The  articles  are  very  interesting  and  so 
applicable  to  the  present  conditions  we  are 
confronting  in  our  everyday  life.  You 
are  to  be  commended  for  the  beautiful 
covers.  I  cannot  recall  ever  having  in  my 
hands  a  magazine  with  more  beautiful 
covers  than  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
— Mrs.  Grace  G.  Craig 
Oklahoma  City,  Oklahoma 
I  am  most  thrilled  with  the  Magazine, 
and  was  particularly  pleased  to  see  Yo- 
semite  National  Park  featured  on  the 
January  cover  of  the  Magazine.  This  is 
currently  my  home  country.  Being  a 
young  mother,  away  from  close  Church 
association,  I  find  our  wonderful  little 
Magazine  a  source  of  inspiration,  and  I  am 
most  eager  for  its  arrival  each  month. 
— Mrs.  Donna  B.  Gebler 
El  Portal,  California
