[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: She | Author: Nibley]
She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part IV— Mary Alice Cannon Lambert Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Crayon Portrait by an unknown artist, probably taken from the Piercy drawing published originally in 1855. MBS. Mary Alice Cannon Lambert was born in Liverpool, England, on December g, 1828. She was the eldest daughter of George and Ann Quayle Cannon. Through the missionary efforts of Elder John Taylor, a member of the Council of the Twelve, the parents and three of the children were conPage 482 verted and baptized in 1840. In 1842, the entire family, which consisted of the parents and six children, set sail for America by way of New Orleans. During the voyage of eight weeks, the mother died and was buried at sea. 'The family con- -tinued on and reached Nauvoo, - where a home was established. They I - were prospering fairly well when _ another tragedy befell them — the _ father died in August 1844, and the children were left as orphans. Two of the older children now found a home with John Taylor, and Mary Alice established her own home through her marriage to a young English convert named Charles Lambert. The Lamberts made a home for the younger Cannon children. Mary Alice was a heroic young woman. ' After the Lambert family emigrated to Utah, they became prosperous and independent. In 1905, Mrs. Lambert wrote the following tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom she remembered when she was a growing girl in Nauvoo. The article was published in the Young Woman's Journal in December 1905. Mrs. Lambert died in Salt Lake City in 1920. "T first saw Joseph Smith in the Spring of 1843. When the boat in which we came up the Mississippi River reached the landing at Nauvoo, several of the leading brethren were there to meet the company of SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH saints that had come on it. Among those brethren was the Prophet Joseph Smith. I knew him the instant my eyes rested upon him, and at that moment I received my testimony that he was a Prophet of God, for I never had such a feeling for mortal man as thrilled my being when my eyes first rested upon Joseph Smith. He was not pointed out to me. I knew him from all the other men, and, child that I was (I was only fourteen), I knew that I saw a Prophet of God. "Many, many times between the time I reached Nauvoo and his martyrdom, I heard him preach. 'The love the saints had for him was inexpressible. They would willingly have laid down their lives for him. If he was to talk, every task would be laid aside that they might listen to his words. He was not an ordinary man. Saints and sinners alike felt and recognized a power and influence which he carried with him. It was impossible to meet him and not be impressed by the strength of his personality and influence. "In May, 1844, he went to the stone shops where the men were working on the Nauvoo Temple and blessed them, each man by the power of his Priesthood. Brother Lambert (whom I afterward married) he gathered right in his arms and blessed, and it was ever his testimony that he was thrilled from head to foot by that blessing. "T well remember the night of the 483 MARY ALICE CANNON LAMBERT Prophet's death. 'The spirit of unrest was upon all, man and animal, in the city of Nauvoo. Why, we did not know, but we could not rest. My father was on guard. No one in the house had slept, the dogs were noisy, and even the chickens were awake. "About 3 o'clock the news of the martyrdom was brought to us, and we realized what had kept. Us awake. And oh, the mourning in the land! The grief felt was beyond expression — men, women and children, we were all stunned by the blow" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 1 Shirley Thulin ARIAN pulled another length of tissue from the roll and carefully wrapped it around the cutglass candleholder. She placed it beside its mate deep within the old trunk and reached for the matching fruit dish. It is like wrapping little pieces of myself and tucking them away in a dark place, sh thought.: The ring of the phone suddenly pierced the silence of the room. "Hello." "Marian, what are you doing? I saw Fred today and he told me you had signed a lease on your home." Marian was silent so long that the voice on the other end of the line said her name twice before she could answer. "I am going, Charles. I have to." "You must be out of your mind. How can you and the children possibly...?" His voice was going on and on, but she wasn't listening. She already knew what he would say when he found out she had decided to go. They had talked about it and he couldn't understand, and she couldn't explain... Not quite even to herself, let alone to Charles. But Marian had made up her mind she was going to the mine for the summer, as David had wanted her to do for so many summers... And only after his death had she Page 484 realized how much it had meant to him. That was the thing that had been so hard for her. The selfaccusations, the regrets.... She knew now that she had cheated David out of their summers, and at the same time had blamed him for their separation each year. She knew he had to do the assessment work or lose the mine. But she had argued each time as he was packing to go... Tried to get him to sell the land and hadn't realized how much she had pained him. "Why, you've never tangled with anything bigger or more fierce than a ladybug, Marian, you..." Charles' voice brought her back. "Please, Charles. I know the things you are saying are true." Her words were slow and deliberate, they had to be to keep her voice from trembling. "But it's just for the summer. Nothing too drastic can happen to us in that short a time." Had she heard herself correctly? Had she really said, that short a time, when deep within her she knew that from the 10th of June until the last of August would be an eternity. "I'm going to the mine for the summer, Charles, and Jimmy's going to do the assessment work that needs to be done to keep the property." There was a tone of finality to her words. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS ¢¢ TIMMY'S just a kid, he can't. Tell you what. I'll look around for someone you can hire." "No, Charles, we can manage fine. Everything's been arranged." She couldn't tell him there was no money with which to hire someone. David's insurance would be enough to live on fairly comfortably, but there would be no money for such extras. "Jim's fourteen now, and he's been going with his father every summer since he was nine. He says he knows what to do." 'Tears were threatening, but she made herself go on. "I... I've got to let him try." Charles was the silent one now. Then he said, "Marian, I'm going to miss you I had some plans...." Marian's heart warmed.