[Vol49 | July 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: One of | Author: Hansen]
One of the Pioneers Adrian Hansen HE dinner dishes were finished and the house put in order. A fresh baking of bread was turned out on a clean cloth, sending out a good, wholesome fragrance. Alice Homer stepped to the kitchen door and called five-year-old Molly from her play. "Molly, let's go visit Sister Jorgensen a little while. We will take a loaf of this new bread and a glass of jelly. Don't you think she will like that?" "Oh, yes, Mama, I'm sure she will. Pll bet she never tasted good jelly like that. I guess she never tasted many good things, did she? She's so old and her house is so funny. Is she a pioneer, Mama?" "Well, I'm not sure. But she has lived here a long time. I remember her when I was a little girl. Then I used to help my mother sew carpet rags, and we would take them to Sister Jorgensen to weave into carpets. You never saw anyone weave carpets, did you? She can't work hard any more and she gets lonesome to talk to someone." Mother and Molly soon walked the short distance to Sister Jorgensen's tiny, dirt-roofed, adobe home. A few flowers were blooming in the neglected front yard. The house was as old and worn-out as its lone occupant, but a cheery "Come in" greeted their knock. "Oh, it's you, Sister Homer. It's so good to have you come. Sit on this chair — so." Sister Jorgensen was so glad to have someone call, and she wanted to be sure they felt her welcome. She arranged the chair and dusted it hastily with the corner of her apron. Dear old Sister Jorgensen always looked the same — faded and colorless, with her few wisps of white hair gathered in a tiny knot at the back of her head. Her dimming blue eyes were trusting and childlike. The years had not dealt kindly with Marie Jorgensen. Poverty and misery had been her companions through years of struggle. Now she had ceased to struggle, and she let her mind dwell on the more pleasPage 495 496 ant years of her young womanhood, spent in her native Denmark. Alice Homer knew this, and so, after offering her the bread and jelly which were received with much joy, she looked about for something pleasant to say to the old woman. At once she noticed a picture of a beautiful baby dressed in the style of long ago. "What a pretty baby. Is it one of yours, Sister Jorgensen?" A glorious radiance changed the face of the old woman.

Even her voice was strong and young again as she replied, "Yes, that is the first baby I raised. Maybe you will say it-wasn't really mine, but I will tell you the story, and then you will know what I mean. "I have told you many times how I joined the Church when I was a young woman in the old country. Well, I knew a man who had also joined the Church, and he had a way to emigrate to Zion. He said that he would get work there to pay for my emigration, if I would marry him when I arrived. I was glad to promise. Going to Zion was the main thing in my thoughts. "A year or so later, I heard from him and he said he was prepared to send for me, so I made ready to go to America. The only reason I hated to leave was the separation from my friend Anna. We had spent our childhood together and went out to work together when we were older. Anna had married and had a sweet baby girl, about ten or eleven months old. Her husband had died, so she was alone again, and we seemed closer than ever. How she wanted to go to America, too, as she was also a convert. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 ¢¢ A T last the day came for me to leave. Anna said that she would like to go to the ship with me and see me off. She took her baby in her arms, and we started out. She went with me almost to the gangplank of the ship, and, as I turned to tell her goodbye, she pushed her baby into my arms and pleaded, 'Marie, take my baby with you. If my baby is in Zion, I know I will get there some way. I'll work harder and save all I can. She is a good baby, and I know she will be all right with you.' "Then, handing me a small bundle of clothes I had not noticed, she backed off into the crowd. I "There was no time to reason with her or discuss the matter any longer. 'The bell was ringing, and all passengers were going aboard. I turned and climbed into the ship, Anna's baby in my arms. "All the Mormon emigrants on that ship were traveling steerage, as we were all of the poorer class, as far as money was concerned. That meant we had to carry our own food which, of course, was of the cheapest. I knew Anna's baby had not been weaned, and I wondered what there would be to feed her. Milk in any form was not to be had. Canned or dried milk was a thing never dreamed of in those days. So I prayed that what food we had would agree with the baby that I might take care of her as Anna had asked. After praying, my mind felt easy. The first thing I did was to tie a little lump of brown sugar im the corner of a clean cloth. The baby took it and liked it fine. Then I made a gruel out of oatmeal and other grains we had with us. I also fed her soup made from the cured ONE OF THE PIONEERS meat and some vegetables we had." "But, Sister Jorgensen, didn't she cry for her mother, and didn't she fret at being weaned so suddenly?" Alice asked incredulously. "No she didn't," the old woman went on happily. "The Lord answered my prayer.