[Vol6 | December 1919 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service Health]

Lesson IV - Social Service Health
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Social Service HEALTH. Fourth Week in January. Never in the world's history has the universal interest in health education been so keen as today. In times past adenoids, diseased tonsils, bad teeth, defective eyes, disease of the skin, food values, malnutrition, fresh air, relationship of weight to health, nervous affections, germs, etc., received little, if any attention. The physical condition of the child and of the adult was measured chiefly by his ability to walk or talk. The awakening today is due to several reasons, among which are: (1) the humanitarian spirit of the times; (2) the advancement in the field of medicine; (3) the great world war. This is a great humanitarian age. The foremost leaders in religion, science, health, education, recreation, industry and social welfare work have for many years been directing their attention to practical improvement along those lines which are most helpful in giving each human being the right to a normal life and the fundamental things which go to make a normal life. One of the most. important of these fundamentals is good health. As far back as 1850, Charles Dickens, in his vivid and interesting novels, draws attention to the social evils of the time, and he sets the world to thinking along lines of human improvement and child welfare work. In our own Church there has always been a plan to give humanitarian service, and health education has had a prominent place. Early Church history records that under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith Neighborhood Nursing was introduced into the Relief Society as soon as it was organized. Of Brigham Young's Council, in August, 1846, at Winter Quarters, the following is recorded: "I said that I intended to propose to the councils of this Church to have some way devised to instruct this people concerning the organization of the human system, and how to take care of it." As soon as the pioneers were well established in the Valley the need of health education and nursing service were felt. The companies of immigrants who poured into the Valley were oftentimes afflicted and helpless. Some well-directed and orderly effort at nursing was needed. Dr. Willard Richards, first counselor to President Brigham Young, and himself a physician and the son of a physician, set to work to remedy as well as might be in these pioneer conditions this social need. His wife, Susannah Liptrot, was a graduate nurse from England, and they two organized and taught a Council of Health through a series of courses, first in the old Fort and later in the Fourteenth Ward school house just then built. Almost continuously since that time the Relief Society has maintained a nurse class ? for both educational and practical purposes. Recent progress in the field of preventive medicine has intensified interest in the preservation of life. This progress has been brought about by the persistent work of a few leaders in the world of science and medicine, who have recognized the superiority of prevention over cure, and the movement has been popularized by groups of social workers who have felt that information of this kind should be brought to the attention of all the people. Through the discovery that certain mosquitoes carry the germs of yellow fever and malaria, these diseases have been decreased to a minimum, by the destruction of these insects; the discovery that vaccination would prevent smallpox, and antitoxin prevent diphtheria, has taken away the terrors of these diseases; the discovery that typhoid is absolutely preventable by proper sanitary measures is another constructive contribution toward health; the present intelligent crusade against tuberculosis, teaching people that the most important thing to do is to build up such strong resistance that they will not be overcome by this disease, is bound to bring good results; the systematic fight against venereal disease, based on new discoveries with regard to infection and the terrible results that follow infection, as well as regarding treatment, is sure to bring about in the world improved conditions morally as well as physically. This universal awakening to the importance of health and physical welfare, was probably focussed through the great world's war, and it has given added impetus to reform measures. It was appalling to discover that one-third of all of the men examined by the draft boards were physically unfit for service. The statement of the army surgeons that most of the physical defects for rejection could have been corrected in childhood, directed public attention anew to the period of childhood and youth as a golden opportunity for the correction af physical defects. Other statistics that startle one are, that one-half of the babies that are born, die before they are one year old; that one-third of the babies born never get old enough to go to school; and that one-half of those born never live to be forty years of age. Incident to the war was the dreadful scourge of influenza which swept over the world like a great conflagration, bringing terror into every American home regardless of race or color, wealth or poverty, taking men, women, and children by the thousands. Perhaps it took just such a force as the war to act as a climax in bringing to our realization the fact that physical fitness with all that it involves, is the great goal to be sought, as a foundation for human efficiency. At the last session of the Utah State Legislature a new health law was passed which is recognized as being in advance of most of the present-day health legislation, and places Utah in the front rank of states which are interested in the welfare of the children who are to be the future citizens of this great country. Our General Board favored this bill because of the far-reaching benefits which it would bring to the children of the whole state, by providing for a comprehensive program of health education in the schools. In addition this bill gives boards of education and superintendents the right to spend school funds,, in reasonable amount, to safeguard the welfare of the children of pre-school age and to instruct parents in matters of child welfare work. We are proud of the part played by Relief Society women in securing this wise law which is so universally appreciated. Our Church Schools early recognized the need of health education and in the eighties the B. Y. U. had medical lectures for both sexes. So important is the Utah health program to all Utah mothers, and so educational is it, that we feel sure that Relief Society women throughout the Church will be greatly benefited by a knowledge of the plan, and will be able to make good application of it in their homes and in the community. Mothers who have reared their own children should study child welfare work for the benefit of all the children in the community, some of whom have no mothers to be interested in them. Following are some of the details of the plan: The general plan includes, (1) provision for the physical examination and medical inspection of all school children at least once a year. (2) A system of "follow up," for the purpose of correcting the defects discovered by the medical inspection. (3) The inspection of school buildings and grounds and the maintenance of satisfactory sanitary and hygienic conditions. (4) The protection of the school population from contagious diseases by daily inspection and exclusion of incipient cases. (5) Careful instruction in personal, household, and public hygiene. (6) Systematic physical training as a means of promoting normal physical growth. A physical and medical examination of all school children at least once a year is a most desirable thing. Many children go through life with defects that can easily be corrected providing they are early brought to the attention of the parents. This examination in a preliminary way will be made by the teachers without exposure of the child or the mentioning of defects to other children. All children found by their teachers to need a more careful medical examination will be examined privately by the health supervisor, and parents will be notified of the defects discovered. The correction of these defects is a duty and responsibility of the parents which must be attended to if they would give the children a fair chance, in the school for promotion, and in life for success. It is not the business of the school to say who shall be employed to correct children's defects but simply to notify parents of the existence of their defects and to urge that they be corrected for the sake of the children's future. It is a fact that some children are held in the grades two years longer than the regular time because of diseased adenoids and tonsils. The sanitary inspection of school buildings and grounds is a serious responsibility of boards of education and superintendents, because when children under a compulsory attendance law are required to spend a larger part of each school da}' in a house other than the home, that house should be a clean, sanitary building, in which their physical welfare will be properly safeguarded. So many contagious diseases are spread by the school, that it is very necessary to take special precautions to protect the school population from contagion. Teachers should know and be able to recognize the very beginnings of acute health disorder, in order that children having such signs can be taken out of school and kept at home as long as may be necessary to protect the other children in the school; and parents should feel enough interest in the general welfare that they will co-operate sympathetically with the school authorities in carrying cut such quarantine or other instructions as may be needed. The training of children in the art of health is of such vital importance that it will require the united efforts of both the home and the school to do the work well. Co-operation of the mother with the teacher will accomplish many times as much as either agency can possibly do alone. Health training means habit formation. Habits are formed by doing things so often and so regularly that they become easy and automatic. Checking up on health habits is the point where intelligent co-operation is needed. The definite program of desirable health habits adopted for use in the schools of Utah, a graded list of which follows, will probably do more than any other one thing to safeguard the health and physical welfare of children and insure that the men and women of the future shall be physically fit for the work of life, either in time of war or time of peace. Grade 1. Definite habits to be inculcated: (a) keeping things out of the mouth; pencils, handkerchiefs, fingers, gum, miscellaneous articles; (b) carrying and properly using handkerchiefs, (c) looking in both directions before crossing a street. Grade 2. Habits to be inculcated: (a) keepings hands and nails clean and hair combed; (b) drinking water before breakfast, at forenoon recess, before luncheon, at afternoon recess, and avoiding tea and coffee; (c) daily use of the tooth brush. Grade 3. HajDits to be inculcated: (a) correct breathing? deep breathing exercises every morning in the open air; breathing through the nose. Grade 4. Habits to be inculcated: (a) exercise? regular "setting up" exercises daily in the morning before breakfast; (b) bathing ? not soapv scrub, brush bath twice a week; special attention with soap and brush to hands; special care of neck and ears daily. Grade 5. (a) Good postures? sitting, standing, walking. Grade 6. Habits: combination of all habits set forth in preceding. It will be seen by the foregoing that the habits which will be inculcated in the first grade children are few and simple. Second grade children in this beginning year will be trained in first grade habits, and a few more habits added, and in each advanced grade the children will be held to the good habits of all preceding grades and be definitely trained in those set down for their own grade. The plan as used by the sixth grade including a competition program, was introduced in Utah by the Utah Public Health Association. It was inaugurated by the National Tuberculosis Association, and is known as the Modern Health Crusade. QUESTIONS. 1. Give some reasons for the present interest in health education. 2. What part did Charles Dickens play m child welfare work? 3. Show what the Latter-day Saint Church has done in the interest of health education. 4. Mention some of the discoveries in connection with disease. 5. What are some of the common physical defects of children? 6. What did the war reveal with regard to physical fitness of men within the draft age? (Returned soldieis will be able to give information on this topic.) 7. Mention some things the government has done during the last few years in the interest of health education. 8. Read and discuss the new Utah Health Education Law. (This law may be had from any Utah School Board member.) 9. Name the points included in the Utah school health plan. 10. Why is a physical and medical examination of all school children once a year desirable? 11. How will the physical examination be made? 12. What part should the parents play in the correction of the defects of their children. 13. What can Relief Society women do in the interest of clean and sanitary school buildings? eases?14. What is the teacher's duty in regard to contagious diseases?15. What is the parents' duty in regard to contagious dis- 16. What will be required in training children in the art of health? 17. How are habits formed? 18. Mention and discuss the definite habits to be inculcated in grade 1; in grade 2; in grade 3; in grade 4; in grade 5; in grade 6. 19. If you live outside of Utah, tell what your own state is doing along health legislation.