[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 551 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement The Excitement of Discovery Bruce | B. Clark]
[Cultural Refinement The Excitement of Discovery Bruce B. Clark]

551 July 1968

 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON The objective of this month's lesson becomes even more challenging when we realize that the "world" in which we live is not one world but several—the vast physical world and all its wonders and beauty, the unseen spiritual world and its powers, the world of people, their complex types and relationships, the hidden world within each person and all its complexities of feeling and thought, and, finally, the world of eternal truths and principles that bind all these other worlds into a harmonious unity. Our goal is to discover all these worlds as fully and honestly as possible, to separate the trivial from the significant in what we discover, to direct our lives in harmony with eternal principles, and to give our energies towards making the world better and more beautiful. DISCOVERY THROUGH THE PHYSICAL SENSES When anyone mentions the excitement of discovery, people usually think of looking with their eyes, for sight is the natural beginning of exploring the world. At least it is for most people. And the worth of our eyes as cameras with which to see the detailed wonders of the world is made especially dramatic and poignant whenever we meet one who is blind, as in the following simple poem by the English poet W. W. Gibson: SIGHT By the lamplit stall I loitered, feasting my eyes 552 On colors ripe and rich for the heart's desire— Tomatoes, redder than Krakatoa's fire, Oranges like old sunsets over Tyre, And apples golden-green as the glades of Paradise. And as I lingered, lost in divine delight, My heart thanked God for the goodly gift of sight And all youth's lively senses keen and quick.... When suddenly, behind me in the night, I heard the tapping of a blind man's stick. Not many people are literally blind, but there is another kind of blindness that is widespread— the blindness that comes from looking without seeing. We are surrounded on all sides with the wonders of nature and people, but how many of us see what we look at? One of the most important gifts of many poets is that they see things sharply and describe them accurately, making simple things become vividly interesting and helping others to "see" things around them that have been there all the time, but they have never noticed before. As an example, study the following little poem by Rupert Brooke, a gifted young British soldier-poet who died of blood poisoning early in World War TI: From 'The Great Lover'' These I have loved: White plates and cups, clean-gleaming, Ringed with blue lines; and feathery, faery dust; Wet roofs, beneath the strong crust lamp-hght; Of friendly bread; and many-tasting food; Rainbows; and the blue bitter smoke of wood; And radiant raindrops couching in cool flowers; And_ flowers themselves, that through sunny hours, sway Dreaming of moths that drink them under the moon; Then, the cool kindliness of sheets, that soon Smooth away trouble; and the rough male kiss Of blankets; that is Shining and free; blue-massing clouds; the keen Unpassioned beauty of a great machine; The benison of hot water; furs to touch; The good smell of old clothes; and other such-- The comfortable smell of friendly fingers, Hair's fragrance, and the musty reek that lingers About dead leaves and last year's ferns... Grainy wood; live hair So enchanting is the world of nature made vivid for us by the poets that we are ready to say with A. E. Housman in one of his little poems from The Shropshire Lad that life is too fleeting, even seventy years of it, to drink in all the beauties around us: Loveliest of trees, the cherry now Is hung with bloom along the bough, And stands about the woodland ride Wearing white for Eastertide. Now, of my threescore years and ten, Twenty will not come again, And take from seventy springs a score, It only leaves me fifty more. And since to look at things in bloom Fifty springs are little room, About the woodlands I will go To see the cherry hung with snow. DISCOVERY THROUGH EXPERIENCE Up to this point we have been exploring the excitement of discovery with the eyes and the other physical senses. We all know, however, that there are even greater kinds of discovery. Seeing at its best is more than just seeing with the eyes, even as poetry at its best begins in experience but ends in thought. Or, as Robert Frost once said it Lesson Department better, "A poem begins in delight but ends in wisdom." The end of a poem (a good poem, that is) is therefore not so much an ending as a beginning—as illustrated by Walt Whitman's "When I Heard the Learn'd Astrono- 0, mer: When I heard the learn'd astronomer, When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me, When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them, When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room, How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself, i In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time, Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars. DISCOVERY THROUGH BOOKS If seeing at its best stimulates thinking, so discovery is more than just discovery of the physical world. And one of the richest sources of discovery, as we all know, is the world of books. For the poet's testament, we turn to Emily Dickinson: There is no _ frigate like a_ book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul! More extensively Keats also paid tribute to the exciting discoveries that may come through reading books: On First Looking Into Chapman's Homer Much have I travelled in the realms of gold, 

553 July 1968

 And many goodly states and kingdoms seen; Round many western islands have I been Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold. Oft of one wide expanse had I been told That deep-brow'd Homer ruled as his demesne, Yet did I never breathe its pure serene Till I heard Chapman speak out loud and bold: Then felt I like some watcher of the skies When a new planet swims into his ken; Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes He star'd at the Pacific—and all his men Look'd at each other with a wild surmise— Silent, upon a peak in Darien. When Keats wrote this poem, he had never been outside England and had traveled very little within England. He had, however, traveled widely in the "realms of gold" —that is, of imagination quickened by reading. He knew the indebtedness poets felt for the great culture of ancient Greece. In particular, he had often been told that in epic poetry ("one wide expanse") Homer, author of The Iliad and The Odyssey, ruled as the supreme poet. Yet he never appreciated the greatness of Homer as an epic poet until he read an English translation by George Chapman, an Elizabethan poet and translator. Then he tingled with the excitement of a great new discovery, like an astronomer who has discovered a new planet, or like Cortez* when he discovered the Pacific Ocean. Keats, who could not read Greek, spent all one night with a friend reading passages from the Chapman translation, and it opened for him a whole new world of great poetry. Books, great books, can do this, not only for Keats but 554 for everyone—as millions of the world's readers can personally testify. * If we are to know the excitement of discovery throughout our lives and not just in childhood, we must keep an enquiring mind, for curiosity is the beginning of discovery. As the great Joseph Conrad dramatized in his short story "Youth," youth is an attitude of mind more than a scarcity of years. Some people are world-weary in their teens, and others are reaching out, stretching their minds for new ideas and experiences into their eighties and nineties. There is no age at which adventure must stop, as Tennyson suggests in "Ulysses," one of the best of his short dramatic poems, but too long to print here. *See note in text, Section One, on Balboa. DISCOVERY THROUGH PEOPLE The world around us, waiting to be explored, consists not only of places and books, but also of people, who are more interesting and more important than all other things. One of the most beautiful statements concerning the world of people and human inter-relationships was written by the great John Donne (1572-1631) as part of his Meditation 17: All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated.

God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our Tour-ific! * HAWAII weekty -7 days $287 * HILL CUMORAH paceant 17 Days - $279 19 Days— $319 23 Days — $369 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR 14 Days — $259 * MEXICO 14 days from Salt Lake, as low as $198. (Mexico City, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco) * ALASKA * SOUTH AMERICA For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET ea ay 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 28-8981. 295-088 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Mesa 964-5283 total blectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another.... No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors. Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it. No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it and made fit for God by that affliction.... Tribulation is a treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it. Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels as gold in a mine and be of no use to him; but this bell that tells me of his affliction digs out and applies that gold to me, if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security. The thought that each person is a leaf from the book of mankind that will. Be bound into a single harmonious volume by the loving hand of God is developed in beautifully metaphorical language. And the "no man is an island" thought is developed with, at least, equal beauty. Finally, the thought that affliction and tribulation are treasures and we never have enough of them until we are "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" is also both beautiful and profound. 

555 July 1968

 Questions for discussion: (1) What responsibilities of compassion, understanding, and helpfulness are suggested by Donne's "no man is an island"' statement? How does this harmonize with our responsibilities as members of the Church, both to other members and to those outside the Church? (2) How can we be "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" by affliction and tribulation? DISCOVERY OF TRUTH THROUGH LITERATURE The preceding passage by John Donne illustrates another kind of discovery that we wish to emphasize in this section—the discovery of truth that literature can give. To be more accurate, the writer of literature doesn't really "discover" truth, for truth is eternal, and all of us are surrounded with it in experience and observation all our lives. The writer, however, especially the poet, puts these "truths" in rememberable phrases so that others can say, "How true! I wish I had said that." As examples, read the two following tiny poems: From "Grace of the Way" by Francis Thompson Now of that vision I, bereaven, This knowledge keep, that may not dim: Short arm needs man to reach to Heaven, So ready is Heaven to stoop to him. Prayer by Carol Lynn Pearson This radio set Called prayer Is designed For remarkably Simple repair. When the lines fail, There is no doubt Which half Of the set Is out. 556 ee rae <@, Hill Cumorah Pageant Y and FS Historical Eastern Tour 22 days 3 Us July 25 — August 15 FB ead Jy Hawaii oa hitney WH agent and escort: ee 1205 Second Ave. Yx Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 i) Phone: (801) 363-5112 DA He Twin Falls, Idaho 733-6361 Wes << Price, Utah 637-1345 U\),_ St. George, Utah 673-2123 Se (\W' Escondido, California 746-3037 oe SAAD LISD FIBROID ROSY) 40 call or write: C arj PA To reassure those who have inquired, Yes, we are still publishing (and _ collecting) SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS (Written by Mormons for use in ward and stake functions.) Our latest catalog lists such new titles as THOU SHALT GO TO THE HOUSE OF PRAYER, SA, by Ida H. Steed, EVENING AT HOME, by Claudia Pollock, IT'S THE SAME OLD GLORY, Seeley and Coles, etc. And such old favorites as WHY A SINGING MOTHER SINGS, SSA, Locke and Kjar, TEMPLE BY THE RIVER, Marie Anderson, TO A CHILD, Ora Pate Stewart, etc. We have songs suitable for the departing or returning missionary, genealogical and' temple workers, Relief Society special days, tamily reunions and home evenings, Sacrament meetings, lesson enrichment, holidays, chapel dedications, etc. To the first 200 who write for our free catalog we will include a sample song, 'MAGNIFY YOUR OFFICE AND CALLING,"' SSA, with obbligato, by Arline M. Scott, which is appropriate for many occasions. Write to SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS 1365 East 4800 South St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 Or call 277-7331. ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN The ALL-GRAIN Stone Grinders are available in two sizes. Easy Terms... We are the headquarters for the manually operated Corona Mills For more information write: SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main Street Smithfield, Utah 84335 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _~___-_.75 Zone3 ___-_ -60 Zone6 __-_~-.-85 Zone4 __.__.-65 Zone7 __-_--95 Zone 8_ _ _ - -1.05 s DESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department "THE BURIED LIFE"' As a final search for discovery we turn to "The Buried Life" by Matthew Arnold. Although also too long to print here, a few comments on it seem desirable. In this beautifully melancholy poem we find Arnold groping for discovery in three directions: First, a yearning for better communication, better understanding between people. Arnold realized that even people who are very close, even people who love each other, even husbands and wives, sometimes have difficulty communicating their innermost selves. "Alas! Is even love too weak/ To unlock the heart, and let lt speak?" he asks. "Are even lovers powerless to reveal/ To one another what indeed they feel?" He pleads for more understanding, more communication in complete harmony, confidence, and trust by those who love. Second, Arnold yearns for a better understanding of self. Not only do we have trouble communicating with and understanding others, but also we have trouble understanding ourselves. Hidden deep within each of us are the complexities of personality and the mysteries of soul. Arnold feels keenly a need to surmount the essential loneliness of each person's isolated existence, and he realizes that the first step is to discover and know oneself. Even as it is almost impossible to know another person fully, so it is almost impossible to know oneself fully—but we need to try. Third, Arnold expresses a groping desire to look deep with- 

557 July 1968

 in to find the ultimate meaning and nature of life itself, the "buried stream" of humanity— "to know whence our lives come and where they go." Arnold felt an eternalness in the flow of human life from generation to generation and from civilization to civilization even though his faith was troubled by the philosophical problems of his day. And as he looked at the history of the world, he saw culture and religion working towards the same end—the perfection of man. Notes to Class Leaders: The preceding pages contain excerpts from the materials in Section One of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, the section contains fuller discussions and _ notes plus the following selections: an essay by Arnold Bennett showing how many people are poor observers; small poems by Tennyson, Emily Dickinson, and Bernice Burton Holmes, as_ further examples of the vivid observing and describing skills of the poet; 'Ulysses' by Tennyson, showing how the desire for new experiences may carry through youth to maturity and old age; and, finally, a delighful little Czechoslovakian — story called "People and Ants" by Peter Balgha, dramatizing that little things in the world around us are filled with interest, wonder, and deep significance, if we will just look at them—really look, that is Fortunately, all except one of these selections in Section One are either old enough or else so brief that copyright restrictions do not prevent their being duplicated as needed for teaching. The one exception is Peter Balgha's 'People and Ants." This modern story is still under copyright and may not be duplicated without special permission. Ow 558 SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR sa Ain _ HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 * CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19—Senteniieg 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 * MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 New Craft Medium__ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 Something wonverrut happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill-and loving care deserve two things... The perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it!. F ert ae 559 100 98 97 95 94 93 92 560