The Relief Society Magazine - July 1968, Vol. 55, No. 7

The Cover: Majestic Peaks of the Colorado Rockies Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Cabin in Salt Creek Canyon, Utah Photograph by Lucien Bown

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Elizabeth C. McCrimmon Long Beach, California

Mrs. Roy Green Sparks, Nevada

Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah

Mildred N. Israelsen Logan, Utah

Loretta A. Barlow Bay City, Texas

Wanda Rhodes Logan, Utah

Ruth Pepper Corrimal East, N. S. W. Australia

Elma C. Palmer Tiffany, Colorado

Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho

June Erskine Booth Ames, Iowa

482

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$9.95 An expanded and more in-depth treatment of the significance of Missouri in Church history, and an analysis of the role it has yet to play. This fascinating work by the newest member of the First Presidency will make important reading for the summer months, and will always be a valuable reference work for your LDS home library. For the student or general traveler this book is an essential guide to sites of importance in the Missouri area. Includes numerous color photos, and an account of President McKay's visit to Missouri in 1966. FOR ADULTS ONLY A lifetime of learning by R. Wayne Shute $3.50 This thoughtful and stimulating work by a BYU professor and Education Week specialist reveals a new horizon of possibilities available to all of us in the field of adult education. The author draws on his extensive experience in adult education to examine the skills of learning as applied to adults — showing that it is never too late to learn and that all forms of adult education can enrich you spiritually, emotionally, and materially. EE Ss = S= a =, Deseret Book Company — = a 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Deseret Book or 777 So. Main St., Orange, California 92668 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Please send me [_] THE REFINER'S FIRE [_] FOR ADULTS ONLY Paid by check I Money order [J Or, please charge my established account [] Put the magic of > Sugarplum Land BERRY JAM 5 cups U and I Sugar 412 cups crushed berries, fresh or thawed frozen (3 12-0z. Packages) 2 Tablespoons lemon juice 1 bottle liquid fruit pectin Measure sugar into a large bowl, add crushed berries and lemon juice. Let stand 20 minutes, stirring occasionally to dissolve sugar. Add liquid pectin and stir thoroughly. Pack into freezer container, cover, and let stand 24 hours. Store in freezer, or this jam will keep in the refrigerator for two weeks. This makes about 2 quarts of jam. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Jam for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and