[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 510 | General Feature | Quilts for all Occasions Mildred | Prince Wright]
[Quilts for all Occasions Mildred Prince Wright]
'/vm\y  vear  a* 
When  I  arose  this  morning,  I  saw  the  beautiful  April  Magazine  lying  on  the  table  in 
the  sunlight.  The  "Symphony  of  Blossoms"  is  lovely  on  the  cover  (transparency  by 
Camera  Clix).  The  frontispiece  photograph  ("Nest  in  the  Blossoms,"  Luoma  Photos) 
and  the  poem  "Love  Comes  on  Little  Wings"  are  a  delight.  I  particularly  liked  the 
editorial  "On  Graciousness,"  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp.  We  could  all  use  more  of 
graciousness.  Elizabeth  C.  McCrimmon,  Long  Beach,  California 
I  have  been  meaning  to  write  sooner  to  let  you  know  how  much  I  enjoy  the  Magazine, 
but  I  am  like  most  people,  I  put  off  writing  the  words  of  appreciation.  I  have  a 
serious  heart  condition,  and  my  sweet  daughter,  Mrs.  Sheryn  Beck,  prescribed  the 
Magazine  for  me.  I  receive  it  every  month  and  read  every  page.  I  keep  all  the  Maga- 
zines, and  eventually  present  them  to  the  hospital  here. 
Mrs.  Roy  Green,  Sparks,  Nevada 
Please  accept  my  thanks  for  publishing  my  articles  and  stories  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  Because  I  teach  school  during  the  day,  I  do  not  have  the  opportunity  of 
going  to  Relief  Society,  but  our  wonderful  Magazine  brings  to  me  each  month  so 
much  that  is  good  and  beautiful  in  each  one  of  the  inspirational  lessons  that  I  feel 
grateful  for  this  priceless  publication.  And  the  editorials  have  no  peers. 
Sylvia  Probst  Young,  Midvale,  Utah 
Having  been  a  subscriber  to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for  about  twenty  years, 
I  have  found  many  thoughtful  and  rewarding  hours  reading  the  splendid  material. 
I  have  always  felt  that  the  Magazine  is  read  more  thoroughly  than  any  other  maga- 
zine in  the  Church.  Mildred  N.  Israelsen,  Logan,  Utah 
Out  here  in  the  mission  field,  we  hold  precious  every  part  of  the  gospel.  The  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine  is  like  a  beacon  light  to  us.  It  gives  us  strength  to  hold  fast 
to  the  gospel.  It  is  our  lifeline  with  Zion.  Loretta  A.  Barlow,  Bay  City,  Texas 
The  article  describing  the  Homemaking  Department  at  Relief  Society  Annual  General 
Conference  (by  Edythe  K.  Watson,  March  1968)  is  an  impelling  incentive  to  more 
gracious  homemaking.  The  pictures  are  tempting.  We  have  always  been  a  people 
with  a  desire  to  restore  and  preserve  anything  lovely,  praiseworthy,  or  of  precious 
value.  Here  we  are  again,  reclaiming  treasures  from  the  past  to  enhance  the  beauty 
of  today's  handiwork.  Wanda  Rhodes,  Logan,  Utah 
Thanks  for  the  thrill  of  seeing  my  story  in  print  ("A  summer's  Day,"  March  1968), 
and  I  thank  Mary  Scopes  for  her  lovely  illustration. 
Ruth  Pepper,  Corrimal  East,  N.S.W.  Australia 
How  can  I  express  my  love  for  The  Relief  Society  Magazine?  It  has  added  so  much 
to  my  life.  Each  article,  poem,  and  story  has  its  own  special  effect. 
Elma  C.  Palmer,  Tiffany,  Colorado 
I  enjoyed  the  story  by  Janice  T.  Dixon  "Say  Peanut  Butter,"  in  the  May  issue  of  the 
Magazine.  It  was  interesting  in  looking  over  the  Magazine  Honor  Roll  to  see  how 
many   readers   the   Magazine   has   now— imagine,    the   Magazine   in   271,400   homes. 
Frances  C.  Yost,  Bancroft,  Idaho 
I  must  tell  you  that  I  made  two  gingerbread  houses  from  the  recipe  in  the  December 
Magazine  (by  Berta  Mae  Peek).  I  gave  one  to  some  little  friends  of  mine  and  the 
other  to  my  own  children.  All  were  delighted.  I  was  surprised  to  find  how  easy  it 
was  to  make  the  houses  and  how  beautiful  they  were.  I  am  planning  to  make  more 
cakes  next  year.  June  Erskine  Booth,  Ames,  Iowa 

The 
Magazine       Volume  55        July  1968        Number  7 
Editor    Marianne  C.  Sharp        Associate  Editor    Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager    Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Feature 
484    The  National  Council  of  Women  Observes  Eightieth  Anniversary     Belle  S.  Spafford 
486    After  Eighty  Years     8e//e  S.  Spafford 
Fiction 
492    Aunt  Elly's  Mirror    Mary  Alice  Moore 
499    As  Sounding  Brass    Jody  Shields 
518    If  Spring  Be  Late— Chapter  4    Mabel  Harmer 
General  Features 
482  From  Near  and  Far 
495  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
496  Editorial— Preparing  for  the  Later  Years     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
526  Notes  From  the  Field— Relief  Society  Activities 
560    Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home— Inside  and  Out 
498  The  Song  of  the  Hills     Helen  Mrovka 
506  It's  Catching     Leone  W.  Doxey 
508  The  Lady  Who  Bakes  Cakes     Ruth  C.  Ikerman 
510  Quilts  for  all  Occasions— Mildred  Prince  Wright 
511  Just  By  Chance     Cora  Hill  Arnold 
512  Casseroles  for  the  Picnic     Alice  Willardson 
514  Grandfather's  Day     Evelyn  Fjeldsted 
515  Home  Olga  Milius 
516  It's  in  the  Bag     Shirley  Thulin 
Lesson  Department 
534  Spiritual  Living— The  Law  of  Tithing     Roy  W.  Doxey 
540  Visiting  Teacher  Message— Today  Is  Part  of  Our  Eternal  Life    Alice  Colton  Smith 
541  Homemaking— Preparing  for  the  Sabbath  Day     Celestia  J.  Taylor 
544  Social  Relations— Profiles  Remembered     Alberta  H.  Christensen 
551  Cultural  Refinement— The  Excitement  of  Discovery     Bruce  B.  Clark 
Poetry 
481    Axe  at  the  Root     Margery  S.  Stewart 
The  Weaver,  Alice  Money  Bailey  491;  The  Maker  of  Hills,  Annie  C.  Esplin  498;  Over  the  Marsh, 
Gladys  Hesser  Burnham  505;  Dagger  Points  Times  Five,  Kathryn  Kay  506;  Memory  Returning, 
Christie  Lund  Coles  507;  Retrospect,  Annie  Atkin  Tanner  511;  Sweethearts,  Ruth  G.  Rothe  515, 
Moon  Magic,  Vesta  N.  Fairbairn,  560. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  day 
Saints.  ©  1968  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign.  $2.00  a  year;  20«! 
a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  sup 
plied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new 
address.  Entered  as  second  class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the 
Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103.  Act  of  Oc 
tober  8.  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manu- 
scripts.
