[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 540 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES —Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 1—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Alice Colton Smith Northern Hesmisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To understand that many of the riches © of eternal life are available to us at this time. "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) The mass media of our day extol the desirability of the riches of the earth. As soon as one can listen, understand, or read, one discovers that the constantly repeated values of the world emphasize power, wealth, comfort, position, status, pleasure, beautiful homes and furnishings, cars, and the advantage of material things of all kinds. Amid the clamor of these insistent urgings to spend, buy, own, be, and do, comes the advice of our Savior and King, "Seek not for riches but for wisdom. Behold, he that hath eternal life, is rich." (D&C 6:7.) We know that at death we leave behind wealth, power, status, and material things. Why, then, do we spend so much of our energy and time in_ pursuing that which is so briefly ours? Why do we not listen to and act on the words of our Savior with greater devotion? He in- 540 structed us further through the prophet Jacob:.. But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. (Jacob 2:18-19.) Thus, God does not condemn riches, it is their unrighteous acquisition and use that are displeasing. In our day, however, the Lord urges us not to seek riches but to seek wisdom. What are some of the riches of eternal life that are available to us in this life through our obedience to this commandment? They are wisdom, which may be defined as "the power of true and right discernment; also,-conformity to the course of action dictated by such discernment" (Funk and Wagnalls New Collegiate Dictionary); "ability to judge soundly and deal sagaciously with facts, especially as they relate to life and conduct..." (Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, 2d _ ed.); the knowledge of 'the only true God, and Jesus Christ..." (John 17:3); the mysteries of God; the freedom of choice without coercion; communication with our Heavenly Father; the gift of the Holy Ghost; the peaceable things of the Kingdom; and Lesson Department greatest of all the gifts of God." (D&C 14:7.) Today is-a crucial part of eternity. Our whole future depends on what we believe and do here today and every day. Wisdom, the mysteries of God, the riches of eternal life, or the riches of material things—for what do we seek?