[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 499 | Fiction | As Sounding Brass | Jody Shields]
As Sounding Brass strawberry ice cream, OF picking which dress to wear on the first day of school." For many years Madge had felt that her older brothers and sisters were running her life. At first, she had conceded that was her burden for being the youngest. Attention and petting receive from four 'older children, but the time memory of the older children's scornful laughter when she had expressed her opinion on several occasions. She soon learned,, not to say anything even though Father made a point ofasking something about not becoming 4 died, suddenly, of a heart attack, a family council " Madge was 4 senior in high school, and she would never 

501 July 1968

 should happen to that piece of equipment, what should be done about the financial state of the widow and child still at home. Medical school was ruled out. There would not be enough money. Instead, Madge could enter the medical profession as a nurse. The training would not take as long, nor be so costly. It had all been taken care of with precision and dispatch. The family had decided the course of her life, and she had just sat there stunned and silent. But she had not forgotten. She had gone to nursing school. She had become a nurse and gone to a large city to work. There she had met a young student doctor, Lyle Hilliard. They had married and Madge had begun to climb out from the cocoon of being the pampered and petted little sister. And now, here they were, trying to get her back under their influence. Not willing that she should live her life herself, here they were making decisions for her again. Well, she just wouldn't do it. Now that her anger had cooled somewhat, she went back into the living room and told Lyle her decision. "IT don't know why it upsets you so much," he had said. "It sounded pretty reasonable to me." "I don't expect you to understand. Just let it be that I don't want to move back to Danville. Okay? I just don't want to. I'm happy here and that's that. I'll go and help out at first. ['ll arrange for a nurse and do whatever I can, but I'm not going to move back and that is final!" 502 Lyle had shrugged and said, "I guess it's up to you, honey. After all, it's your mother and your family." Now Mother was ready to come home from the hospital and Madge was driving to Danville to help. She had not answered Carol's letter any more than to call and tell them she was coming, and that she wanted to meet them all together that evening. She planned to tell them of her decision then. Mother wouldn't be home until tomorrow, and she would have time to rest and set the house in order this afternoon before facing the family. Madge stepped from the heat of the sultry summer day into the coolness of the old house. She had almost forgotten about Grandma and had been slightly startled to find the house so cool and comfortable. Grandma still lived with Mother in the big rambling house where her family and her son's family had been reared. She had a small apartment of rooms on the second floor, although she had always been given free run of the house. She preferred her own rooms and often received friends and visitors in them instead of using the family living room. "Ts that you, Majesty?" Grandma's old wrinkled face peered over the balustrade of the second floor balcony. Madge smiled at the nickname. Only Grandma and Father had called her that. Everyone else thought it too pretentious sounding. "Yes, Grandma,' she answered. "Well, come on up and see me!" It was together an order and an invitation, and Madge found herself almost bounding up the stairs as she had often done as a child. She reached the old woman as Grandma was about to enter her small apartment. Madge slipped her arms around Grandma's shoulders and gave her a quick hug. "Oh, Grandma," she said, as tears gathered in her eyes, "it's so good to see you." "Tut, tut!" replied Grandma turning away from the hug and entering her sitting room. "Come in and talk awhile. I hear they asked you and Lyle to move here and take care of your mother. Don't remember hearing if you said you would, though." That was typical of Grandma. Right to the point, without wasting breath on any small talk. "Well, what kind of a greeting is that?" Madge asked, parrying for time. "What kind of an answer is that?" Grandma glanced sharply at Madge, "Never mind. Sit down. Tell me what you've been up to lately. How are Lyle and the children?" They chatted for awhile about life in the city, but Madge knew it would not be long before Grandma would get back to her original question. "Well, what are you going to do? Move back or assert yourself and refuse to be bossed around?" Grandma asked suddenly. "Why, Grandma," Madge stammered, completely taken by surprise. "I don't know what you mean." "Oh, fiddlesticks, Madge! Of As Sounding Brass course you do. I've sat down in that kitchen often enough to know what goes on in those family councils. I've seen the hair on the back of your neck rise often enough that I know what goes on inside your mind, even if you never have had the courage to say anything." Madge could only stare. She couldn't think of anything to say. "I'm right, am I not?" Grandma demanded, then went on without waiting for an answer, "T can just see your face when you got the letter. I'll bet it made you real angry." Grandma chuckled. "I'd like to see you react like that in front of them just once. You've always been such a jelly-fish. Well, I see you've grown some. I can see it in your eyes; in the way you walk and move; in the way you hold your head. I rather imagine you're going to let them have it this time." Madge found her voice enough to stammer, "I was planning to tell them it was impossible.. I mean, we just can't move back." "You mean you won't move back. I bet Lyle would jump at the chance." Grandma_ gazed out the window. "More's the pity you had to get your backbone now." "I don't understand. I thought you said you'd be happy to see me stand up to them?" Madge was completely puzzled by the old woman's frankness. Grandma had never talked to her like this before. "I admit I'd like to see you stand on your own feet, but your mother needs you now. I'm 

503 July 1968

 an old woman, and I can't do much except get myself from here to there and back again. I'm not much at cooking and cleaning, and I wouldn't be worth a hoot at taking care of her." "But we can hire someone...." "Hire..." Grandma scoffed. "Your mother needs you, not some impersonal hired woman who will come hustling and bustling in and out and want to turn everything upside-down and even backwards." "Then you think we should move here?" asked Madge beginning to get angry. "No. I just think you should do what's right." "What do you mean?" asked Madge. "First you say I should stand up to my family, say what I think. Then you say Mother needs me. Then you say we shouldn't move here...." "It didn't say you shouldn't move here. I just said that I thought you should do what is right." "You're certainly not making any sense." Madge found her anger rising, despite her wish to remain calm. The whole conversation was queer. Madge began to wish she had gone to her room to rest instead of coming here to talk with Grandma. "T always thought I did what was right, Grandma. When haven't I done what was right? What have I done that is so wrong?" "Oh, yes, Majesty. You've always done the right things. But why? Stop and think. Hasn't it always been to gain approval, or because you were afraid of what would happen if you did wrong? Isn't that why you've always let others make your 504 decisions for you? Oh, yes. You've always done right, but think! It may have been for the wrong reason." "Now you have lost me! Completely!" Madge stood up angrily. "Til go now." "Wait, I'm sorry, Majesty. I guess I've been a bit hard on you. [ll try to be more clear. ''m sure you've had a fight with your conscience over this, too. Wanting to do right and still live your own life. I don't want to impose my will on you any more than I want your family to impose theirs. You have to want to do it to make it right. If it's what you want to do, then it's your life and your decision." "Now, Majesty," she hesitated, "read I Corinthians, 13. Paul says it better than I could." "T...[ don't know, Grandma. I'm tired, I guess. I think I'd better go rest." Madge turned from the room and walked slowly to her own room. Someone had fixed it up for her arrival. It smelled fresh and clean, and the bed looked smooth and inviting. She lay down and closed her eyes, but she could not sleep. Her conversation with Grandma kept running through her mind. "Read I Corinthians, 13... Paul says it better...". Says what better? Madge sat up suddenly and reached for the Bible on the bedside table. She thumbed through the _ pages quickly and began to read: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, tt profiteth me nothing. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. Charity! The pure love of Christ. Charity that is not vain or puffed up; that. Suffers long and is kind; that thinketh no evil, but endureth all things. Charity! That was it. That was what was missing in her life. Madge could see it now. All these years she had been feeling sorry for herself; feeling her family ran her life and smothered her efforts to be an individual. All these years she had been at fault. She had not developed the spirit of charity and love for others. She had just been concerned with her own wants and desires. What was it Grandma had said? "You do the right things to gain approval or to escape punishment. Those aren't the right reasons for doing good." Madge rose and walked to the window. What would be so As Sounding Brass hard about moving here? Grandma was right. If it was what she wanted to do, it would be her decision and her life. In_ her heart, she knew it was the right thing to do. Her mother needed her. It was what Lyle would want, too. Actually, wasn't she doing to Lyle what she had accused her family of doing to her; forcing her will on him? Hadn't he wanted to practice in a small town all his life? It was her forcing him to stay in the city because she wanted to. All the time she had been selfishly thinking only of herself. "Well," Madge told herself firmly, "I can't think of any reason why I have to go on living this way. I can change, and I will. The first thing I'm going to do is call Lyle and tell him I've decided to move to Danville." She laid the Bible back on the table and stepped toward the door. As she walked from the room, she felt a peace inside that she had not known for a long, long time. It was like embarking on a great new advenr OVER THE MARSH Over the marsh the loon's lost, lonesome calling Echoes across the lake's quiescent face. Nostalgically thoughts drift to shadows falling From sedge and cattails mixed with Queen Ann's lace. The air is hushed and drowsy with its sentience, Sun glistens on the pond, then scatters sparks, As fish jump, sending spray of drops cascading. A drake wings leisurely. A meadowlark's Sweet trill awakes the hush. The shadows deepen And cooling zephyrs lull the marsh to sleep. Again that toon's sad call blends with the landscape Making haunting memories to keep. Ture. An adventure in love.