[Vol55 | July 1968 | Page 518 | Fiction | Mabel Harmer | Mabel Harmer]
[Mabel Harmer]
If Spring Be Late-
Chapter 4

Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Just before leaving, she is attracted to Stella Markham. On board the boat she befriends Diane Curran who also is a guest of the Taggarts.

with an attractive companion. Not only that, but she would get her first glimpse of the castle—after a fashion. No doubt Robert McPherson had put the best side forward. But, perhaps not. She had seen the work of artists who loved to paint ruins. Then, if there was time, she would ask him to take her to the National Art Museum. She had spent a couple of hours there when she was wandering about Trafalgar Square, but it would be ever so much more interesting, and certainly more instructive, to see it with an expert.

She put on her red knit suit.

■ Maureen stood at her bedroom window and looked out upon a world still shrouded in fog. The vanquished November sun barely outlined the pear tree, only a dozen feet away. She turned away with only the slightest shrug. The state of the weather did not matter today. She was off on an adventure.

Ahead was a day in London

It not only looked warm, it was warm. Her tweed coat, purchased in England for an English winter, would give her the additional protection she would need. As she watched Diane slip into her sweater she asked, "Is the Markham menage colder—or just plain cold?"

"It isn't so bad, really. The study is small and the library can be well heated. So far, that's the best feature of the entire place. Just the same I'm wearing a cardigan on top of this pullover. Everyone tells me that by the time winter is over we'll be so used to this climate we won't know the difference."

"Yes—when winter is over," Maureen agreed. "I wish that you were going into town with us."

"Why the very idea! I wouldn't dream of it, even if I were free to go. I'm sure this is one occasion when three would definitely be a crowd."

"I'm sure I don't know why you would think so. Remember, it was Kitty who made the arrangements. At least, it was she who first suggested them."

"Agreed," said Diane. "But the gentleman pursued it with such alacrity that I should still decline—even if I were free to go. Instead, I shall be poring over books so that I can inform a bride just what her financial obligations are for the wedding—who buys the flowers, etc. etc. At the same time, I shall be earning enough to pay for my own wedding some day, I hope."

"I would suppose that Mrs. Markham has answered that question so many times by now that she could just toss it off."

"So you would think. And I daresay she could if she cared to. Unless, that is, the secretaries have always done all the work. Or it may be that she figures it as part of my training, and she may be right."

Robert McPherson, who had stayed overnight in a nearby rooming house, arrived in the mid-morning to call for Maureen. Julia had wanted to ride into town with them.

As they settled down for the brief trip, she said, "You know I've been thinking about what Mrs. Murch said last night, and I'm going to have Mr. Edmunds look into it. He's a solicitor," she explained to Robert. "I'm a hard look at the facts of the case, we have to agree that, if she does have some money, and no survivors, it might as well go to us as to go for death duties. Then, too, we have kept her for twenty-five years, which could call for a settlement of some kind. We've been glad to do it and, what little money she has made from the sale of her afghans, we have always been more than willing that she should keep for her own use."

"How did you get her in the first place?" asked Robert. "Isn't she related in any way?"

"In no way whatever," Julia replied. "We had never seen nor heard of her until she showed up one day during the Blitz. She came with nothing but the clothes on her back. We found her wandering about in a daze and took her in. She has been with us ever since."

"And had she no other family?"

"As far as we know, there was