He was a young widower with a little girl three years old who was born a few days before her mother's death. One part of the letter said: "T wish you could see little Marjory. Horace says he is jealous of her. She is an adorable child and she loves me as much as I do her. O, Mother, thanks again and again for saving me from the foolish thing I was about to do three months ago. What if you hadn't come! What if I had never met Horace and Marjory—What if— "O, but it's foolish to brood over tragedies that didn't happen, isn't it? It's better to enjoy the present blessedness. ANNE BRENT, HELPMATE "Mother, what I am trying to get around to is that Horace wants me to marry him, and may I bring him and Marjory home for Thanksgiving—You know that is your silver wedding day, and I'm arranging to have a few days extra holidays so I can come home—then if you and Daddy approve, Horace and I will be married at Christmas time. I hope we'll be as happy as you and Daddy have been. I hope I can be as wonderful a wife and mother as you are!" Anne folded the letter with misted eyes and with a little prayer that her girl's life might be much more successful and worthwhile than her own ABOUT the middle of November, Morris came in one afternoon and told Anne that his company was sending him to Washington to an architects' convention. He was to read a paper he had given at a district convention a few months before. "But the thing I really came over for, Mom," he said after he had broken the good news, "was to talk to you about Dad. Is it true that he mortgaged the store and the home to get money for that real estate venture, and that now the merger has failed to materialize he won't be able to pay the mortgages?" "I suppose, Morris, that things stand about that way." "Gosh! I couldn't believe it when I heard some men over in Shannon talking the other day. They said those fellows who were in with him on the real estate scheme were going to capitalize on his idea and leave him in the lurch. They're leaving this smaller project and are preparing to put the idea over in a big way down in Tennessee. That merger idea was his, too, and now the other side of the state will get the benefit of it, and Dad who thought it out will lose everything he has. Why 405 is it, Mother, that he can't make his ideas work to his own advantage?" "He isn't a practical man, Morris. He's a dreamer. He's terribly discouraged now. He feels that he's a failure, and in spite of all I can do, he broods a good deal of late. He worries because the rest of us will have to give up things. I used to resent his spending so much time and money and energy on these inventions and schemes that have meant so much to him all his life, and I worried because we didn't get farther ahead in a financial way. But I have come to see things differently. Instead of feeling that your father is a failure, I regard him as a great man, whether we ourselves ever reap anything from his inventions or not. The individual isn't so important in the big scheme of things. If he's benefitting people in the western part of the state, or in Tennessee, that's a great and fine contribution to the world, and he shouldn't think he is a failure." "But you may be turned out of your home. You may be living on charity. It isn't right. Something's got to be done." A sudden light came into Anne's eyes. "Morris, did you say this convention you are going to is in Washington? Maybe you can do something to save your father from his 'slough of despond.' Haven't you been reading lately of the practical use that is being made of conditioned air— in homes and schools and trains? I've read several articles on the subject. 'Sure. That's one of the latest things in civic improvement." "Come in here, Morris." Anne's voice shook with excitement. "I want to show you something." She led the way to a little desk in her room and took out a roll of papers.