Navajo Indian Blanket Weaving By Elizabeth Cannon Porter The weaving of Navajo rugs will eventually become a lost art according to Charles A. Amsden, secretary of the Southwest Museum, located in Los Angeles. This institution is devoted to the American Indian. Mr. Amsden is compiling a book on Indian blankets, having spent five years in collecting and studying the native weaving in Arizona and New Mexico, "Why should an Indian woman weave for four or five cents an hour when she can make twenty-five cents an hour working for white people?" asks this authority. 'The movies, the auto and the radio are modernizing the American aborigine." Nevertheless there has been a renaissance in color and design since 1920 in this ancient industry, the simpler patterns and the vegetable dyes being used. Red coloring is obtained by steeping the root bark of the mountain mahogany; orange from the root of the wild rhubarb that grows on the hills of the southwest. Clear yellow by boiling the yellow blossoms of rabbit brush; and dull blue is from the leaves of theindigo plant. Black is really charcoal from the burning of pinon gum. On the advent of the European the Navajo obtained the much coveted bright red from baize. Originally this red flannel was woven in England, taken to Spain, thence shipped to Mexico, and eventually found its way by the devious charnels of trade up into the southwestern part of the United States. Also during the latter part of the nineteenth century the Indians obtained yarns colored with aniline dyes from Germantown, Pennsylvania. But these were a great deal more expensive than their own native wools that were a drug on the market. The Navajos are borrowers, according to this student of the tribe. They borrowed wives from the Hopis, crops from the Pueblos, sheep from the Spaniards, skins from the plains Indians, and designs anywhere they happened to find them. Before the coming of the Spaniards they had stout looms on which they wove cotton clothing. The Navajos were rovers and often they obtained the cotton, along with their women, from the agricultural or Pueblo Indians. After Coronado's expedition sheep were introduced and Navajo men became tenders of flocks and their squaws weavers of blankets. The sheepherding suited these nomads well. The weaving was done either in open boweries or in smoky tepees. Cloth was woven on wide looms, often with black and white stripes that would go around the figure. The man's, or "chief's robe' was usually of broader stripes, and ornamented by some additional design, the craftsman showing cleverness in zigzags and diamonds. Besides robes, headbands, and girdles, the Indian women wove thick saddle blankets. Following the Indian uprising after the Civil War when the Navajos on the warpath were subjugated by Kit Carson, a new era in weaving was ushered in. Nine thousand of this tribe were kept under surveillance. It was at this time that the Indian blanket became a rug for the white man. Consequently it was NAVAJO INDIAN BLANKET WEAVING woven thicker and a border made its appearance. The Navajo is clever at borrowing designs as well as everything else. Symbolism enters intu the weaving, and opens up a vast field of study. The forces of nature may be depicted as lightning or rain. The spear-point, or the hour glass, animals, reptiles, corn, or dancing men 428 may suggest a design. According to superstitition this tribe came up from the underworld through a hole in the ground. A very handsomely made blanket showed this entrance from the nether regions wrought in red and black. It had six sides—the directions— according to the Indian: north, east, south, west, up and down!