VOL. XXI JULY, 1934 No. 7 EDITORIAL Two Notable Conferences WE congratulate the Mutual Improvement and the Primary Associations for the outstanding conferences they have just held. The attendance was phenomenal. Between meetings the streets of Salt Lake City were crowded and put on a festive and colorful appearance as the young women with their bright dresses flitted here and there. The faces of both men and women were radiant with satisfaction. They had come from afar to get help in the work so dear to them and they were receiving more than they had dreamed of. The changes in the M. I. A. Program for next year met with hearty approval. The foresight of the Church leaders in instructing the M. I. A. Years ago to study the problem of leisure time and to prepare to direct the leisure-time activities of the Church is now recognized by all. This organization is known throughout the world and leaders everywhere are pointing to the Mutual Improvement program as the finest that is given to youth by any people. The Primary are looking to the leisure of the children in a like earnest and efficient way. The session devoted to Youth and the New Day is generally acclaimed as one never to be forgotten. The concert where 3,000 men and women sang so beautifully under the able leadership of Noble Cain will not soon be forgotten by those who listened enraptured to their music. These singers had been gathered from practically all the western states and some had come from the states bordering on the Mississippi and Missouri rivers. The display of hobbies and the session devoted to hobbies was most helpful and we believe throughout the Church there will be a realization of what a splendid thing it is to have a hobby and to be outstanding because of one's knowledge of some special subject or because of the wonderful collection one has of things he has made or gathered that are especially interesting to him, MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor EDITORIAL The great advancement made by these two organizations is remarkable. The people of the Church can hardly realize how greatly indebted they are for the training given to their children by the faithful men and women who so efficiently officer and teach in these organizations. One woman remarked, "I used to be opposed to the Conference being 439 held in June, thinking it would be better held in the fall, but now I think it is right. It will take us all summer to prepare for our winter's work." May the next season see the greatest enrollment these organizations have ever had and may they do the most efficient work and make. The greatest success in all their lines of activity.