Utah State Flag UTAH has the first state flag ever made. It was adopted by the legislature in 1903. The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers made the creating of interest in the state emblem and gathering of authentic history of the flag and its adoption their special project for the month of May, 1934. Officers of the organization have urged that this old flag made of Utah silk, embroidered by Agnes Teudt, be placed in a glass case large enough to display it unfolded, and that it shall there remain. This they feel is a necessary precaution since the flag, now about thirty years old, is beginning to show the wear and tear of being moved around and being made of Utah silk it would be impossible to duplicate it. In 1911 it was made the Governor's flag by the legislature, then in session. Through the efforts of the Sons and Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, a second flag was made and presented to the Battleship "Utah" in 1913. The flag was made by an eastern firm who put a gold circle around the design which was not a part of the original pattern. Many people felt this added to the beauty of the flag. Through the efforts of Annie Wells Cannon, who was a member of the legislature, at that time, it was accepted and the colors and the circle adopted. Later. When the Battleship "Utah" was scrapped, the flag was burned, according to the regulations governing flags when they become tattered and torn. In the spring of 1922, Governor Mabey was asked for a state flag to be displayed in New York in a patriotic parade of states. Several organizations responded to the call and the flag was embroidered by Miss. Dollie McMonegal. This emblem is now displayed in a show case, in the Capitol Building. When in 1926. A call was made for a flag to be hung in Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Governor Dern asked the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers to make a flag. This one was embroidered by Hanna Wilcox Dupont, who followed the pattern adopted by the legislature of 1913 and 1917. Soon thereafter Governor Dern made a second request of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers to make a large flag and again Hanna Wilcox Dupont embroidered the flag. This flag is now in Memorial Hall at Valley Forge. Arrangements have now been made to supply Utah State flags of any size and many of the people of the state who have been unaware that they possessed such a beautiful emblem will become conscious of it and it will doubtless be displayed in many places.