Honors to Worthy Men THE University of Utah at its June Commencement Exercises conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws on two of Utah's distinguished sons ? J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and George H. Dern. President J. Reuben Clark has won wide recognition through his knowledge of international law. He rendered outstanding service as Ambassador to Mexico. He was called upon by President Roosevelt to be one of a party to go to South America and study conditions there and is now serving as President of the Foreign Bond Holders Protective Council. George H. Dern, former Governor of Utah, is now Secretary of War, and in that capacity is widely known throughout the nation. THE Agricultural College of Utah is proud to now number among its roster of notables President Anthony W. Ivins. It conferred upon him at its June Commencement Exercises, the honorary title of Doctor of Laws. President Ivins is a remarkable man. All who converse with him recognize his culture and wide information, yet he never attended a high school, college or university. His reading has been so extensive, his observation so keen, his experience so varied that he is outstanding in any group. We are sure our readers will appreciate what he said in an interview with a Deseret News reporter, so we quote it herewith. "I HAVE graduated in many occupations but this is the first time I ever received a degree." With this comment Anthony W. Ivins, of the First Presidency of the L. D. S. Church, today recalled much that he had done in a long lifetime of activity. "My graduations have been many," he said. "I am a graduate at cooking and dishwashing. Maybe the food wasn't prepared according to the methods of domestic science but we never had to throw any of it away. 'Few men have shoveled more dirt in a lifetime than I have in my occupation as farmer. I have eaten fruit from trees that I have planted in soil where only thistles and sagebrush grew before. "I am a graduate blacksmith. I have shod enough horses to mount a good sized detail of the United States army. I was an expert at this and had much of it to do. "I have read and studied geology until I am familiar with the rocks and their formations. I have read and studied chemistry until I am somewhat of a chemist. "Although I never studied engineering I have surveyed and platted land, laid out canals and roads which have met the approval of the government. "I have fixed broken legs and sewed up scalp wounds and otherwise been a medical doctor, mostly because no one else around could do it any better than I could. I have treated people for nearly all diseases in the catalogue. "I served as a lawyer for years and have convicted criminals, even though I never had a degree." With a whimsical smile the whitehaired veteran of pioneer days paused to further recollect his "graduated" occupations. "I guess at one time or another I have done most everything," he re-" marked. "Have you ever worked on a newspaper?" he was asked. EDITORIAL "Yes. I was once editor of a school paper." 'In addition to all these occupations, each of which was followed as a means of earning a livelihood, President Ivins has indulged in many hobbies. He says they are not hobbies but just things he's interested in. "What is your greatest hobby:" Books," he said readily. "y have traveled all over the world by means of books. I have been in the arctic with Franklin, Kane, Bartlett, Peary, Amundson, and Steffenson. In the antarctic with Shackleton, Byrd and Scott. ''I have been over the long Labrador trail with Dillon and Wallace. Through the rockies with Bridger, Kit Carson, Bonneville and Fremont. I have been in Kentucky with Boone, and in Texas with David Crockett. I have been in Arizona with Frederick Remington. "I have traveled up and down Mexico with Prescott, Bancroft, Solis and others. I have been to Central America with Stevens and Catherwood. "I have been up the Amazon and down the Orinoco with Casper Whitney. I have been in Peru with Prescott and Pedro de Leon, and around Cape Horn with Magellan, and the Cape of Good Hope with Vasco da Gama." That's just a brief sample of his greatest hobby. President Ivins has often told of becoming acquainted with the Bible and other works of scripture while in the saddle riding range and herding cattle, another of his unmentioned occupations. When asked what his reaction is to the honor being bestowed upon him, President Ivins thoughtfully said: "I am quite composed. I am neither elated or depressed as it comes too late in life to make any material difference. I am, however, grateful for the honor carried with it and happy to be found worthy to receive it." When President Ivins went to Logan he was accompanied by Mrs. Ivins. "I wouldn't think of going without her. She has been with me during thick and thin, and in all these things I have talked about she has helped. The honor is as much hers as mine."