Historical Events in the Relief Society Conference Address by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary I have decided to make a few observations this afternoon upon the organization, growth, and work, of the great Relief Society, which we represent. In contemplating this subject we find much that is interesting and entertaining, we find much that is inspiring and encouraging, we find much that is faith-promoting. We are interested in all the details connected with the early organization of the Society; in the historical development; and in the various phases of work accomplished. We are inspired by the labors of the workers of the past, and by what has been done, and we are encouraged. To put forth renewed effort for future progress. Our faith is strengthened by the lives, the heroism and the vision of those who have preceded us; by their willingness to sacrifice for principle; by the struggle they put forth in the interest of their ideals; by their faith in the gospel itself as well as their faith in the Society. Our testimony is strengthened by their testimony. We love to recount the story of the organization which occurred so long ago, away back on March 17, 1842, in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, when the Church itself was only six years old. We love to speak of the beginning of the organization, and to go over the early instructions, which formed a foundation for the subsequent work. Sarah M.. Kimball, one of the charter members of the organization, and later one of the foremost workers in the organization in the state of Utah, in speaking of the beginning, said: "A few of us met together in my parlor in Nauvoo. We had a desire for an organization of our own, and a desire to help' with the building of the temple. We had some by-laws written out by Eliza R. Snow, and we took them to President Joseph Smith, who said he would be glad to have the opportunity of organizing the women." In fact he told them that he had been considering the matter of an organization-for them for some time, and that his plans were much greater than anything they had in mind at that time. It was not long after this that a group of women was invited by the Prophet, to meet in the upper room of the old Masonic Hall, where the organization took place, with Emma Smith as president; Sarah M. Cleveland, first counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, second counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Gen. Eral Secretary; Elvira Coles, treasurer. President Smith visited the Society often, and gave instruction from time to time on the objects and aims of the organization, and on the duties of the members. 
 Following are excerpts from his instructions: "The meeting was addressed by President Joseph Smith, to illustrate the objects of the Society—that the Society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good work in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teachings." At later meetings the Prophet gave additional instructions as follows: 'This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feeling of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society. * * * Let your labors be confined mostly to those around you in your own circle. As far as knowledge is concerned it may extend to all the world, but your administrations should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintances, and more especially to the members of the Society. * * * You should be armed always with mercy. If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another. * * * Be pure in heart. * * * By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." President Smith urged the women to work in a cooperative manner together, and to respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another. You will all remember that the organization started with eighteen members, which are known as the charter members of the Relief Society. During the first year the membership reached 1,179; 162 members were received during the second year, making the total at the end of two years, when the work was temporarily suspended, of 2,341. The growth was'so great that at the end of the first year it was thought necessary to divide the organization, as there was no room at the disposal of the women which would hold the members. The division was made to conform to the four city wards of Nauvoo, and the meetings of the wards were held in rotation thereafter, but were all presided over by the same group of officers. Eighteen meetings were held the first year (March 17 to September 28, 1842), and sixteen meetings the second year (June 16, 1843 to March 16, 1844). The last meeting in Nauvoo was held on March 16, 1844. The operations of the Relief Society were suspended in 1844, due to the various calamities which befell the Saints in connection, HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 391 with the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum, which occurred June 27, 1844. And, due to the exodus from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City, and the early struggles in Utah, ten years elapsed without any activity on the part of the organization. The women, however, never lost sight of the institution nor the promises made to them by the prophet. In 1853, a beginning was made when a group of women met in the old Social Hall, and formed a Society which was the forerunner of the ward organizations in Utah. In 1854 organizations were formed in the First, Second, Seventh and Sixteenth wards, with an Indian branch in the Thirteenth ward. In 1855 organizations were formed in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth wards in Salt Lake City, and the First ward in Ogden. In 1856, an organization was formed in the Third ward in Salt Lake City; in 1857, in the Sixth and Eleventh wards Salt Lake City and in Provo; in 1858, in Nephi. There were no complete reports of the work, however, until 1857. In 1858, on account of the move south, when Johnston's Army came to Utah, the work was suspended and it was only when order was restored that permanent organizations were formed. In 1866, President Brigham Young recommended organizations in all the wards and branches, and gave Eliza R. Snow the mission of assisting the bishops in the great work. From 1868 to 1870 the work went on with vigor, until in every little town and hamlet where there was a ward or branch, there was also a Relief Society. I might state here that from that year, 1866, Eliza R. Snow stood at the head of all organization work for women in the Church. She was spoken of in the press as "president of the Latter-day Saint women's organizations," and, in the first issue of the Exponent, June 1, 1872, she was mentioned as "the president of the entire Female Relief Societies." On July 19, 1877, the first stake Relief Society in the Church was organized in Ogden, when the ward Relief Societies of Weber county were united. Mrs. Jane Richards was made president, and will always be remembered as the first Relief Society stake president. This event was significant, for it marked the real beginning of the amalgamation of the independent ward Societies into a unified whole, with uniform standards and coordinated activities. On December 22, 1877, the same year, the second stake Relief Society was organized in Salt Lake City to preside over the wards of Salt Lake county. M. Isabella Horne was made president. On November 21, 1878, Utah stake was organized with Margaret T. Smoot as president. Other stake organizations followed rapidly and by 1881, sixteen stakes were organized with a membership of 12,288. On June 19, 1880, at a 'Sisters' Conference" held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, officers were nominated and sustained for 
 a central or General Board of the Relief Society. President John Taylor nominated Eliza R. Snow as president of all the Relief Societies, and she was unanimously sustained as such. She chose as her counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney; as secretary, Sarah M. Kimball; and treasurer, M. Isabella Horne. These sisters were also nominated by President Taylor and sustained. ( Exponent, July 1, 1880.) On July 17, 1880, at a general 'Sisters' Meeting" held in the 14th ward hall, the general officers of the Relief. Society were set apart by President Taylor. (Exponent, September 1, 1880.) The Relief Society work was early taken into the missions where organizations were made as follows: London conference, 1874; Hawaiian mission, 1875; Denmark, 1879; New Zealand. 1880; Germany, 1881; Switzerland, 1886; Holland, 1886. In 1888 when the National Council of Women of the United States was organized, the Relief Society was represented and was one of the charter members of the Council. In 1891 the Relief Society became fully affiliated upon formal application. _ The first general annual conference of the organization convened in 1889, making this conference, 1927, 'the thirty-ninth annual conference. In 1893, when the Society was fifty-one years old, the membership had increased to 26,700. In this same year, 1893; the Society was ifcorporated with a Constitution and By-laws, and a General Board of twenty-three members or directors. The growth of the Relief Society has been slow and gradual, but withal a safe and substantial growth. Like the sturdy oak it has developed until after eighty-five years it is the solid and dependable organization that we now know. Our membership has now reached 61,627. It has increased in the last ten years from 43,894, which is a gain of 17,733 members in ten years. This present membership consists of 20 General Board members, 1,011 general and stake officers, 63 mission presidents and mission officers, and 10,348 executive and special ward officers; 19,726 visiting teachers, and 30,459 lay members. Among these lay members are about 5,000 class teachers, and probably 10.000 committee members, leaving about 15,000 members not especially assigned. There are very few privates in the Relief Society. Practically everybody has some special duty. In looking over the reports of the past which are available, two of the outstanding years for increase in membership were the first year of the organization in Nauvoo and the years 1868-1869. This would naturally be the case. In the first year a large group of women were available and were eager for an opportunitv to organize and do some definite work for the Church. And in 1868 and 1870 the women came in in ward groups as they were organized. 4 HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 393 The charity funds in the Relief Society began with the first organization, when President Joseph Smith started the funds by contributing a $5 gold piece, stating: ''All I shall have to give to the poor I shall give to this Society." Others followed his example as follows: John Taylor, $2; Willard Richards, $1; Emma Smith, $1; Sarah M. Kimball, $1; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50c; Sarah M. Cleveland, 1214c; total contributions at first meeting, $10.62%4. At a later meeting the Prophet contributed a building lot and the framework of a house, which he offered to have placed up on the lot. It was planned to use the house for housing immigrants and others who were homeless. At the third meeting Willard Richards contributed' new. Merchandise valued at $20.87. At one of the early meetings two members of the Relief Society each gave $14, and there were many individual gifts of $3 and $4. The total receipts for the first year are reported as $500, which no doubt included the house and lot. The problems which were met by the women during the first two years of the organization were very much the same as 'our problems of today. Besides the need for relief in the homes, there were problems of unemployment, sickness, housing the immigrants, care of orphans, widows, aged, etc. Following we quote from the early records: ° "It was reported that a lonely widow had arrived from England with one child and without funds. One of the members offered to take her in and care for her. Several children who had been left orphans were turned over for protection to the Relief Society. These orphans were cared for by volunteer members who took them into their homes, as their own children., A call was made for tuition for the children of two widows who were unable to arrange for their children to enter school and there was an immediate response. One member offered to contribute one quart of milk a day to the poor. One of the members announced that she had accumulated enough red yarn for a carpet, but she decided it would do more gcod to be knitted up into mittens. And stockings for the poor and. She gladly gave it for this purpose. Another member reported that she was willing to give $1.00 per month to the' charity fund, another that she would be willing to knit or sew one-half of her time for the poor, and for those who were working on the temple. Another member said she would donate one bushel of corn-meal weekly to the poor. She also offered to care for a motherless child indefinitely. Destitute widows were especially cared for. Soon after the Society was organized there was a movement to arrange for the gardens of the widows to be ploughed. It was decided early to accept provisions through the treasurer. President Emma Smith suggested at one time that it might be a good thing to save and use most of their ready cash to buy materials to be made up into clothing for the poor." - In addition to caring for the needy and destitute, the women of the first Relief Society turned their efforts toward the raising of funds for thé temple, which was then being built at Nauvoo. Following are some of the extracts from the early minutes regarding this work:° One member offered to board one temple hand free of charge. The Relief Society, as an organization, > 
 offered to weave and sew clothing for the temple hands, to knit socks for them and to repair clothing. One member proposed that the Society get a supply of wool on hand to be spun and knitted into socks, to supply the workmen. One woman gave every tenth pound of flax as a donation; another donated four pounds of candles, another 100 shingles. Some of the groceries donated for the families of the men who were working on the temple were butter, flour, sugar, chickens, etc. It is reported in one of the early meetings that there was a beggar in their midst who was imposing upon the people, and who, it was known, was in no need of help. The. Women were warned against this impostor. The matter of employment was considered early in the organization. Names were listed of widows and others who desired work, in order that people who had work might get in touch with them. It was also customary for members to solicit the patronage of other members of the organization. And milliners, dressmakers, seamstresses, knitters, etc., were permitted to do this in the meetings. At the second meeting of the organization, the president, Mrs. Emma Smith, stated that in the near future she thought a committee should be appointed to represent the needs of the poor. The next mention made of this committee occurred during the second year, on July 28, when a committee of sixteen was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." The committee was subdivided into four groups, with four in each group to cover the charity work of the four wards in Nauvoo. This committee was the forerunner of Relief Society visiting teachers. After several weeks, Mrs. Orson Spencer, who was a member of the charity committee, offered her resignation. She stated that she had worked on the Second ward committee, and was still willing to help, but she was afraid that the women were taking the bishop's place in looking after the poor, and in soliciting donations. Several other sisters felt timid about this work. At the next meeting Elder Cahoon was sent by the prophet to the Relief Society to explain to the women that they should go on with their charity work, that they were not acting in the bishon's place. Nor intruding, and that they would be blessed. I think there has been many times since this that the women of the Relief Society have felt that they might be intruding. In fact I think they have been reminded by those not appreciative of the work of the organization that they were intruding. However, the General Authorities of the Church have always taken the same stand which was taken by the authorities in early days, namely, that there is a place for the Relief Society, and a work for it which is not covered by the Priesthood nor by the other auxiliary organizations. During its existence the activities of the Relief Society have HISTORICAL EVENTS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 395 covered, in addition to charity work and education work, woman suffrage, seri culture, health and nurse classes, a hospital, cooperative stores, building of Relief Society halls and the raising of grain, and it is impossible to comment upon them all here. During our last year, 1926, the Relief Society expended for charity the sum of $96,017.19. While this seems an enormous amount of money,. It really is not so much when we consider that the distribution covers all of the communities and localities where the Church is located. Our receipts for charitable purposes were $83,027.10, to which was added $2,990.09 balance on hand, and while this seems an enormous amount of money to be received in a year, it is really only about 85cts per L. D. S. Family, as our reports show. However, our work, like the work in early days, is not all measured by dollars and cents. The service which is given by the Relief Society is much greater than the amount of money expended. The preventive work of the organization, and the constructive work in families is much more important and telling than actual relief, necessary as relief is. In addition to the charity fund, the Relief Society has accumulated a large wheat fund, which today amounts to $413,828.- 71; $400,796.11 of this amount is deposited with the Presiding Bishopric, and it is the instruction of the Church that all of the Wheat Trust Fund should be deposited with the Bishopric. This action was taken because of the fact that money has been lost in the past in one way and another and it was felt that it would be safer for the fund to be centralized and deposited with the Bishopric. The interest on the Wheat Fund, which amounts to something like $20,691.45 has been set aside for a special purpose. It has been recommended by the General Board, and approved by the General Authorities of the Church, that the interest on the wheat money be used for maternity and health purposes. Our reports show that some of the wards have used this money for other purposes, which is regretted by the General Board. Our cooperation in health work with the various State Health Departments, in the states where we are located, has been very successful. The states, as you know, have had funds provided by the SheppardTowner Act which they have been using in the interest of maternity and health work, establishing health centers and units, and our organizations have cooperated with these departments with excellent results. When Miss Grace Abbott, Director of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., was visiting in Utah last Fall, she stated that Utah has achieved the honor of having at the present time the lowest maternal death rate of any state in the Union, and is also among the four or five states having the lowest infant death rate. While we have made an excellent record along these lines up to date, we are anxious that the records should be better. We are anxious, if possible, for every mother to be 
 spared to her children. We are anxious for all children to live and to have health opportunity, and to have the privilege of having physical handicaps removed. 'We feel that we cannot afford to have our children neglected in any way, that they should be examined frequently and their defects corrected. We are horrified at the thought of a child developing deafness, rheumatism or heart trouble as a result of diseased tonsils, adenoids or teeth. We shudder at the thought of mal-nourished children. Only recently a man called at Relief Society headquarters and stated that while he is able to take care of his family generally, and has done so without help, he sees no way in which he will be-able to take care of the teeth of his eight children. It is true that our counties are responsible for all citizens within their borders. It is also true, however, that the counties do not have sufficient funds to carry on all of the welfare work which is needed, and the work of the county should be, and is, supplemented by volunteer agencies, among which is our own great organization. It is the hope of the General Board that no wheat interest shall be held in the treasury or used for other purposes so long as there is a health need among the mothers and children. Our educational work is progressing most satisfactorily. Our theological work has covered Bible themes, and in connection with the work we have our testimony meetings, which we value most highly, and which we feel should never be neglected. In our Literary department we are taking up the study of -American poetry of today. This course gives us an opportunity for the exercise of our aesthetic tastes and personal culture. In our Social Service department we have, for a number of years, striven to study the social needs of our families and our communities. We have aimed to emphasize preventive work as well as to discuss and learn of the best methods of correcting individual and social ills. The last two years we have been studying Child Welfare, with a view of understanding our children and their various needs. I am sure that, in all our labors, we try to keep in mind always that the most priceless thing in the world to us is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and our testimony of the gospel. These we value above everything else. We realize that it is through our knowledge of the gospel and its laws, through our belief in the rights and powers of the Priesthood and the authority of the Priesthood and through our testimonies, that we are held together, and that we survive as an organization. Without this knowledge and these stabilizing influences our incentives would not be so great, nor our interest so deep, nor our cohesion so perfect. It was this knowledge and power that united the pioneer women and made them willing to submit to hardships and trials in settling this desert and held them together in this cause. Let us, prize our testimonies in the gospel of Jesus Christ. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  THE GENERAL BOARD MRS, CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS 2 - - - - - - President MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - -. - Second Counselor MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - «. ~ First Counselor Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reeactds Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon Mrs, Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs, Elise B. Alder Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss, Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS' Associate Editor - - - - - - -ALIcE Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager Amy Brown LyMan Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  Vol. XIV AUGUST, 1927. "No. 8 EDITORIAL |!