The Enchanted Land By Minnie J. Hardy Romance—what happiness lies in that magic word. Indeed I know whereof I speak, for I have drunk deep of the joys, sorrows, tragedies and philosophies of life; still, it seems but yesterday that I stood upon the threshhold of existence looking into a rose-hued world, peopled with gallant. Knights and gentle ladies; and knew that somewhere, there dwelt among that goodly throng a noble Sir Gallahad who would, some day, come a-niding by and carry me off to his enchanted castle. But little did 1 think that after two score years had come and passed into oblivion my romantic, childish dream would materialize into a reality. And yet, it came to pass. Dame Fortune had placed me in one of the government houses in Mammoth, Yellowstone Park. One delightful morning, in. Early autumn, as I was just sweeping the newly fallen leaves off the front porch, I heard a strange voice saying, "Good morning, Ma'am." I turned, and with intermingled joy and astonishment, beheld my Knight of the Round Table, mounted upon a prancing white charger. No/ I was not dreaming. There he 'was, life-size and at "large. But reincarnation had taken place; he was changed. Instead of the blue velvet cape, white plume, and golden saber, he was attired in buck-skin trousers, trimmed with leather fringe, a velvet vest, heavily beaded in a gorgeous floral design,—flowers that have never been known to bloom anywhere upon earth, or in the waters under the earth, that I know of; and, to complete his picturesque appearance, a regular ten-gallon Stetson adorned his handsome head. Solomon in all his glory, and Tom Mix combined, 'were never arrayed like my Knight of the Camp Fire. However, I recognized him by his silver spurs, dropped 
 the broom, brushed back my disheveled hair, and in my embarrassment stammered, "Good morning, Sir." He gallantly removed the ten-gallon,, and after the manner of a true knight of the Golden West, said, "When I want a woman, I want her in a hurry," and he handed me a note. JI read—. Dear Mrs.