[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Life's Wintry Way Marie Jenesn]

LIFE'S WINTRY WAY. Hand in hand two lovers wandered In a storm, one wintry day, Laughing gaily at the snowflakes Which were falling every way. Isn't life, she gaily whispered. One great day of sweet content? And if we'd seek for God's own beauty, We'd rejoice whate'er He sent. Thus they spoke because there lingered In their hearts a thrill of love Given early in life's morning When they left their home above. But as years, with trial and crosses, Came to change and chill their hearts, They let care drive out the pleasures Which once seemed of their lives a part. 
 Once again we find them wandering, Aged and bent one wintry day, Mid the storms of life together Toiling slowly on their way. Life is changed for these two lovers, They have found it cold and stern. O how gladly they would change it, If their youth would but return. Youth comes but once to mortals. Old age, with frost and snow, Sets seal forever on them As they wander here below. Though hopes of youth lay blighted, Their dead beneath their feet, They learned sweet faith from trials And the bitter grew more sweet. To those who now are living With sorrow day by clay, You're learning faith and patience, For love points out the way. There is beauty in the future, There is youth for you again; Pray and cling to God's own promise, Life's struggle's not in vain. 'Tis the path ordained by Father, You are treading here on earth, And if you His pathway follow, He will test and prove your worth. In His furnace He will try you Till you' soar above life's ill; So rejoice in tribulation. Row in meekness to His will. Tho' your youth has long since vanished, Let your hopes be ever young; ' Gladly take what He will send you, Sing I listen praise with heart and tongue. Though the future now is hidden 'Neath the snowflakes falling fast, These will vanish with the sunshine Which the Lord will send at last. Basalt, Idaho. Marie Jensen.