[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A Forceful Business Venture Ida Stewart Peay]

A Forced Business Venture. A YOUNG WIFE'S STORY. Ida Stewart Peay. It is a tragedy for a man with a family to be "laid off," or. at least, I felt it so when in the first five years of our married life, my husband was out of work six different times. Once eleven weeks elapsed before he could again secure a job, and such trying times were intensified by the knowledge that three bright, hearty children looked to us for proper care. I knew my husband was not an unsatisfactory workman. Hundreds of other men, moderately capable, as well as entirely honest and industrious, who also hired out their services by the day at unskilled labor, suffered a like experience. Their engagements depended, apparently, upon the rush periods of the various business concerns of the city. One day when my companion came home "laid off" again, I bitterly deplored conditions which made it practically impossible for a father, able and anxious to earn a livelihood, to secure continuous employment. It seemed as if I could hardly bear the thought of want and deprivation the words "laid off" conjured. They were a tragedy to me as, no doubt, they were and still are to thousands of others; yet I felt obliged to admit, upon reflection, there was, obviously, no other course for the "day laborer" but to work or idle at the pleasure and convenience of the "managers" of the world's affairs. Then I asked my husband seriously, if he could not go into business for himself, and be one of the "managers." As he was only a common "day laborer" without a trade or any special training or education, without capital, and moreover involved to the extent of a thousand dollars for our little home, the idea looked preposterous. Nevertheless, because of our desperate predicament, we talked over all the possibilities, finally evolving a plan that actually appeared feasible, and the trial was decided upon. In our home town, a western city of some ten thousand inhabitants, my husband had worked most of the time at a big foundry and machine shop, where he evidenced considerable native mechanical ability, and acquired a good deal of knowledge and skill in iron work. He was never "fired" from this place, merely being "laid off." from time to time, as were most comparatively new hands in dull seasons. He now approached a fellow workman at the foundry, who Mas well acquainted with all kinds of iron 
 welding, and suggested to him that they form a partnership and open a blacksmith and general repair shop. The man had never thought of such a course, but he felt satisfied that with their combined experience they could take care of that kind of business. Also, he, too was eager to become more independent, and after due consideration, the partnership was effected. The new firm first found and bought a piece of property, forty feet front by twelve rods back on the center or main street of the city. The price was seven hundred dollars, making a debt of three hundred fifty for each man to shoulder, and each, thereupon, agreed to pay $5 a month until the principal and interest, which latter was charged at the rate of eight per cent, were paid off. Next my husband proposed to put up the building, if his associate in the venture would furnish sufficient tools with which to begin work. This being accepted, the shop was built of corrugated iron with rubberoid roofing, the cost reaching something over one hundred dollars. A lumber company furnished the material promising to take shop work for one-half of the amount, and $2 per month for the other half, until the debt was liquidated. The partner made a similar arrangement to obtain the tools, and thus, within fourteen days after the first inception on the of the plan, with a   neat red sign front the red building, began to do business for themselves. Their troubles, however, were by no means over. Several days passed without the appearance of even one customer. A few Job's comforters poked their heads in at the door to sniff and say they didn't know when these fellows had learned the blacksmith trade, but hoped they'd do all right. Those were dark hours fraught with discouraging possibilities. I sought out the wife of my husband's partner, and we made it up between us that our homes should abound with such mottes as, "Never give up." "Keep smiling." "All things come to those who t work and) wait," etc. The men caught the spirit and became more determined to succeed. They studied "blacksmith" magazines and journals at night, built fires in their forges, and hammered on their nails at practice work all day. They made simple tools, repaired everything about their own premises and appeared to be mighty busy. At last their patience was rewarded by a few customers, though at the time of the first month only $15 a piece had been earned. All the same, we women were hopeful, and pointed out the undeniable fact that $15 was more than they made when "laid off," so we urged them to "keep hammering." The second month $30 for each man was secured, which seemed encouraging, even if it wasn't a living wage. To be sure, A FORCED BUSINESS VENTURE. 15 we had no luxuries in those days, but we were very happy for all that, finding a wealth of pleasure in working towards the accomplishment of an end. The partners vied with each other in devising new and economical business methods; while we wives were enthusiastically trying to see which could contrive and serve the cheapest, yet the most wholesome and tasty meals. We ransacked old chests for clothes to remodel, became acquainted with dyes, found the remnant and bargain counters, and tried our hands at millinery. We joked and laughed away many difficulties, and struggled on. Better still, the new "managers" "kept hammering," and became more proficient daily in their chosen vocation. The end of the first year found them realizing $50 per month each. This sum was as much as either had received as wages at the Foundry, and being constant, proved quite satisfactory. But happily their success did not stop at this point. Instead, the business of the little firm continued to grow rapidly and steadily until their respective salaries crept up to $75 per month and finally after ten years to $100, and is still on the upward move. All because they dared to venture, risked everything, then sacrificed, schemed and labored diligently and persistently to "make good." The moderate prosperity that rewarded their honest efforts has brought these two bread-winners a pride and contentment that is inspiring to witness. They now boast a splendid shop equipment, their property has doubled in value, they occupy a place of usefulness in the community, their firm name is known for reliability, and best of all, they can never again be "laid off." TOO BUSY.