[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mrs. Alice Merrill Home]

Mrs. Alice Merrill Home. The officers and members of the Relief Society will be surprised to learn of the release of Sister Alice Merrill Home, grand-daughter of our late beloved and honored President Bathsheba W. Smith, who felt it best to relax her arduous labors by leaving the General Board, for wise and sufficient reasons. Sister Home has been a power for good during the long years she has been associated with the General Board of this Society. Particularly efficient has been her labor in the realm of Art, for she is keenly susceptible to the beautiful in nature and to man's expressions of beauty in every form. Her book Devotees and Their Shrines has been widely circulated, and has reached thousands of women who have been lifted up by its teachings into the realm of harmony and loveliness, unable to attend to their board duties. Mrs. Home has been equally efficient and active in her labors as chairman of the Public Health committee. She has performed a very unique task during the past summer in the milk stations, which have been under her charge, associated with the city authorities. All forms of sanitation and private and public health are vitally important to this public-spirited worker, and the General Board will miss her labors in this and many other directions. While we greatly regret parting with Sister Home, we admire the courage and wisdom of her decision to sever her connection with the Board when she found it impossible to do justice to both her public and private labors. We would commend her example to others of our sisters who occupy positions in our various boards, but who are unable to perform their labors there. An honorable release from such positions would be of advantage to both the individual who had the wisdom to ask for it, and to the organization who would thus be relieved of members who are unable to attend to their board duties. The General Board tendered to Sister Home a complimentary luncheon Thursday, November 25, in their own rooms, on which occasion everything was as merry as a marriage bell. The honored guest herself was a beam of sunshine, while the committee on the luncheon and program, consisting of Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Emily St. Richards. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, and Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, were distinctly joyous, not to say hilarious in the discharge of their immediate functions. President Wells and her counselors laughed and said witty and pleasant things in full MRS. ALICE MERRILL HORNE. 11 sympathy with the pleasant occasion. The following lines were read by a member of the Board: LINES TO ALICE MERRILL HORNE. Whenever there's a meeting, there's a parting by the way, And so we meet to part again, on this auspicious day. Of all the meetings and the partings, since ever I was born, This is the oddest parting with our gifted Alice Home. She's helped us with our Guide work; she's done her active part, In making every meeting a little work of art. She's planned, how she's worked, she's run about to teach the mothers To get the babies' pure milk right from a healthy cow. She's helped us see the beauty in a daisy by the brook, And made the world more lovely in the pages of her book, She's striven for the bright things, and tried to help us find That life is not all drudgery, if we have an open mind. And so we'll miss our Alice, but wherever she may go, She'll take with her our blessing, and a lot of love also. We know that she will daily strive to do her fullest duty, Still bringing to the world a love of Nature and of beauty.