[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. h$ regular cadence, having regularly accented syllables; one can beat time to it; as, Life is real, life is earnest, And the grave is not its goal: Dust thou art, to dust returnest Was not spoken of the soul."  -Longfellow. Prose which is literature or which contains the elements of beauty on the other hand, has a freer rythm. Its movement is not regular; but it is musical, just the same. Listen to any choice selection in prose; listen to even the freest conversation, and observe that words fall naturally into a kind of musical grouping. The rythm of prose is more like the music of the mountain stream. Now it leaps, now it eddies, now it babbles, now it flows quietly; one can hardly guess what next it may do. The music of verse may be compared to that of the waves of lake or sea, breaking with rythmic cadence upon the shore. Prose, however, in its most eloquent forms, sometimes moves with almost the rythmic swing of verse. For illustration: "Union and liberty, now and forever, one and inseparable."  Webster. "Peace on earth, good will towards men."  St. Luke. "How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in his excellent word."  Kirkham. Have some good reader voice this touchingly beautiful letter also, and listen to the musical flow of its lines: Dear Madam: November 21, 186-1. I have been shown, in the files of the War Department, a statement from the Adjutant General of Massachusetts, that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine which should attempt to beguile you from a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of a Republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom. Yours very sincerely and respectfully, Abraham Lincoln. To Mrs. Bixby, Boston, Mass. 54 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Prose may be very formal or very free. Verse likewise may move with stately step, as in Milton's Paradise Lost, or it may be trippingly light as in a Mother Goose Rhyme. The nature of the verse or prose is always dependent on the kind of thought or emotion to be expressed. Writers try to make the language form in which their thought is clothed fitting, true to the spirit of the message or picture of life they are trying to give. Most of the literature produced today comes in prose form. In earlier days, practically all of it was in verse. Prose, being freer, expresses best the spirit of freedom of this age. The song, or lyric, of course, must always be written in verge. It is interesting to know and well to remember that there are three great types of verse: 1. The Classic, or rhymed verse, created by the Greek poets; 2. The Biblical, or parallel verse, given to the world by the Hebrews; 3. The Blank, or unrhymed verse, first produced by the English poets of the time of Queen Elizabeth. Each of these types comes in a variety of forms; but one can readily recognize to which type a poem belongs, by remembering the chief characteristic of the type. For example: The Classic type is written in rhymes; as, "As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form Swells from the vale and midway leaves the storm. Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread Eternal sunshine settles on its head." From "The Deserted Village."  Goldsmith. Biblical verse does not rhyme, but the thought it expresses is repeated in other words in parallel lines: as, "Intreat me not to leave thee, And to return from following after thee; For whither thou goest, I will go; And where thou lodgest, I will lodge; Thy people shall be my people, And thy God my God; Where thou diest, will I die, And there will I be buried; The Lord do so to me, And more also, If aught but death part thee and me." From "Ruth" 1:16-17. Note that every other line might be omitted, and still the full thought would be kept. This is the simplest form of Biblical GUIDE LESSONS. 55 verse. Many variations from this simple form are made. The Bible contains a great many poems in parallel verse. We are not sc likely to recognize them, however, since in the King James translation these poems are not given in their literary form. But read the Psalms, or many of the Proverbs, and note their parallel structure. It is comparatively easy to write them in verse form, as has been done with the little lyric given from Ruth. as, Blank Verse does not rhyme; but it is regularly rhythmic; "The quality of mercy is not strained; It droppeth as the gentle dew from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice blessed; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes."  From "Merchant of Venice" Shakespeare. All of Shakespeare's plays are done in blank verse; so is "Paradise Lost" by Milton; and Tennyson's "Idyls of the King," as well as the poems of many other writers. It is a stately kind of verse, well fitted to express great thoughts, as well as stirring ones. Yet, as was said in the beginning, it is the life of the selection that counts most, not the form. The soul is more than the body in literature as in life. In selecting books for the home, mothers should try to choose those that are alive, that are sincere, that have a pure soul. Only such literature gives a spiritual uplift. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. What do these words from the apostle mean to you?  "Though I speak with the tongue of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am as a sounding brass and tinkling cymbal." Apply this saying to the work of the author. 2. What three different forms does the literary production generally take? 3. Let each be prepared to give some quotation from the sermon type of literature. Use the Sermon on the Mount, or other sayings of the Savior, or give a choice proverb from the Bible, or some passage from the Book of Mormon or Doctrine and Covenants, or from the speeches from our leaders. The quotation should be only a line or two in length; as, "Neither do I condemn thee; go and sin no more." 4. Name some story in verse, in prose. ~~ 5. What is the essential difference between verse and prose?1 6. Let each class member be prepared to give a choice quotation from some poem in rhymed verse; as, 
 "Tis always morning somewhere, and above The awakening continents, from shore to shore Somewhere the birds are singing ever more."- -Longfellow. Students may use the hymn book, or any collection of poems tor this purpose. "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform; He. plants his footsteps in the sea, and rides upon the storm." 7. Find, in one of the Psalms, or elsewhere in the Bible, two or more lines that illustrate parallel verse; as, "It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, And to sing praises unto thy name, O Most High." Psalm 92. 8. From the plays of Shakespeare or from some other English poet, give a brief example of unrhymed, or blank verse; as, "This above all: to thine ownself be true, and it must follow, as the night the day. Thou canst not then be false to any man."  -'From "Hamlet"  Shakespeare. 9. What second guiding principle for parents in selecting literature for the home would you give? LESSON IV. Home Economics Fourth Week in February. II. CORRECT NURSING HABITS Perhaps a larger percentage of trouble in infants  is due to improper nursing habits than from any other cause. It is difficult to impress upon mothers the necessity of regularity in the feeding of their babies. If you will just stop to consider the fact that a baby's digestive apparatus requires rest just as much as does the adult it will help you to realize the necessity for correct habits of nursing. At least one-half of the cases of colic during the first three months of life, with restlessness at night and in many cases imperfect development, are due to a failure upon the GUIDE LESSONS. 57 part of the mother to observe regular periods in the nursing of her baby. Doctors vary as to the interval proper interval. The condition of the baby should determine that should be adopted. A baby that is undernourished at birth, that is deficient in its physical development, should be put upon the two hour interval. Very frequently, however, mothers through their over-anxiety for their babies will attempt to do too much for them so that the. mother is not always the best judge as to whether a child is poorly nourished or not. The normal child  and by normal I mean the child that averages seven and one-half pounds at birth, and makes a steady gain of from four to six ounces a week  should be put upon the three hour interval. If this is adopted as a rule mothers will save themselves lots of sleepless nights and save their babies a great deal of colic. The four hour interval is of value in case-" where there is excessive vomiting or where colic and green stool? do not clear up on the three hour interval. Very frequently mothers tell me that they are regular in their nursing intervals, but upon close inquiry I find that they are guessing at the intervals. This should not be attempted. Nursing intervals should be regulated by the clock. The rule for the normal infant is 6, 9, 12 a.m., 3, 6, and 9 p. m. Prior to four months of age only one nursing at night. These nursing hours should be the same for every day  not 6 o'clock one morning and 7 o'clock the next. Tram the child early to form regular habits and he will soon awaken regularly at the nursing period and fall off to sleep again immediately after nursing. I cannot be too emphatic in impressing this point upon mothers. Many children are raised successfully on the irregular nursing periods, but that does not necessarily mean that they would not have done better if they had been on the regular periods. The question often arises in the mind of the mother as to whether or not her baby is getting enough milk. There is only one way to determine this, and that is by the scales. Frequently a mother will call up a doctor with the complaint that her baby is not getting enough to eat. It is the doctor's place to insist on a careful observation of the baby's weight, taken immediately before and after nursing for every nursing period through twenty-four hours. This gives us in ounces the total amount of milk that the baby obtains in that period. If the baby gets sufficient quantity the quality of the milk can be determined only by an observation of the daily gain in weight over a period of from one to two weeks. A normal gain of from four to six ounces per week is pretty conclusive that the quality of the milk is all right, other things being equal. The idea of sending the milk to the doctor for analysis is not reliable for the reason that no doctor is prepared to make a complete analysis of the milk. Only an expert chemist could accomplish that analysis. The fat content of the milk can 
 be determined approximately by the doctor through a simple test, but to analyze the milk is out of the question, the scales being the only practical method of determining not only the quantity of milk the baby is receiving, but the quality of the milk. The mother's nipples should be cleansed at all times before the baby is allowed to nurse. This protects the child against the entrance into the mouth of any infection. The routine washing of the baby's should be condemned mouth with boricreason for the acid solution that moreis or a practice that less of that solution enters the child's stomach and without doubt in time will produce digestive disturbances. Plain warm water is practically of as much value as the boric acid when used over long periods of time. The widespread use of the pacifier to quiet the baby should be condemned because of the danger of infection. It is practically impossible to keep it clean. Germs accumulate around the base of the pacifier that are readily introduced into the mouth of the child. Dysentery, "the great captain of death" in iofancy, is frequently due to this. In occasional cases the pacifier does have its uses, but the habit of using it with every baby is to be unqualifiedly condemned. C. Weaning the Baby. The average child should be weaned from nine to twelve months of age. Mother's milk is deficient in some of the mineral salts, particularly iron. During the first year of the child's life there is enough of this iron stored up in the baby's tissues to supply the demand of the body. This supply becomes depleted by the end of the first year, and if the baby is nursed beyond that time, although he may be fat: the tissues will be flabby, and his development will be handicapped. The vitality is thus lowered and baby is more susceptible to all of the acute infections. Frequently mothers assume the responsibility of weaning the child prior to the nine months because of their fear that the baby is not getting enough from the breast. No mother should assume this responsibility. The conditions in which mother's milk is deficient as a food for the infant are so rare that they really need not be considered. The mother's milk is the ideal food. We cannot possibly duplicate it. and to deprive your baby of that food prior to the nine months is to interfere with his physical development. Usually the mother's diet can be modified to suit the needs of the developing infant. This should always be attempted under the direction of a competent physician before weaning is ever considered. The baby should be weaned gradually. The, appearance of teeth is nature's signal for the introduction of other foods. GUIDE LESSONS. 59 Normally the first teeth appear at six months of age. If the mother begins to introduce a crust of dry bread at this time, with later on small amounts of the gruels well cooked, by the time the baby is nine or ten months of age weaning would be a very small matter. A very good plan is to accustom the child to take one bottle of modified milk daily, so that when the breast is withheld the child will take to the bottle without any trouble. What has been your experience in regulating the intervals of the baby's feedings? Discuss the advisability of eliminating the night feeding by the time the baby is three months old. How many mothers have made use of the scales in the raising of their babies? What do you think about the pacifier? Does it influence in any way the development of the bones of the face? Have you in your experience found it difficult to keep the pacifier clean? Have you noticed the pallor and flabby condition of the babies that have been nursed beyond the first year? In a previous lesson we learned what the diet of the nursing mother should be. Bearing this in mind, how would you proceed to modify the breast milk through the mother's diet? FROM OUR FRIEND'S ALBUM.