[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: General Board of the Relief Society]

New Year Epistle Of the Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society, to Officers and Members Everywhere. We offer to you our sincere greetings and congratulations at this auspicious season, for the arduous and useful work we have been enabled to perform during the past year; while we render thanks and gratitude to our Father in heaven that he has given us the opportunity, strength and time to accomplish this labor. The ward and stake branches of the Relief Society throughout the Church have been active and diligent. No complaints reach us of indifference and inactivity, while every report received breathes a spirit of good cheer, hope and faith. It therefore behooves us at this time to felicitate ourselves and you upon the peaceful close of the year, 1916, and the hopeful opening of the year 1917. GENERAL BOARD ACTIVITIES. The. members of the General Board have been very active in visiting the 71 stakes throughout the Church. Like the stake officers who perform a similar task in their own district, our sisters are happy in the sacrifices of time, strength and absence from home, because of the good accomplished and the love and companionship offered to the officers by the members who welcome our general and stake visitors with open arms. We rejoice in the spirit of hospitality which everywhere obtains in this Society, and feel to bless those who open their homes and minister to the general and stake officers at sundry times and places. President Emmeline B. Wells herself visited ten stakes last year and is still able to travel comfortably and profitably. Among 
 the visits paid by our General Board members was that undertaken by our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, our General Treasurer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, and the Business Manager of our Magazine, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. These sisters were accompanied by the Misses Emily and Edith Smith, the two lovely daughters of President and Mrs. Julina L. Smith. They visited the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mission and its branches in Philadelphia, Boston, New York, Toronto, and other places; the Northern States Mission Society in Chicago, and branches of the Society of that mission; the Society of the Central States Mission, located at Independence, Mo., and the Society of the Western States Mission, in Denver. These sisters also visited the historic scenes connected with our early Church history, and while they brought home much valuable information  and inspiration, they also left with the sisters where they visited, the good spirit of hope, faith and trust in our heavenly Father. THE MISSIONS. The organization of the Society is complete, so far as we know. There have been many changes in ward and stake officers, and while we have said good-by reluctantly to those who have passed out and passed on, we welcome the new comers into our official ranks. The missions have never been in such splendid working order as they are today. Particularly active is the Northern and Central States and the California Missions. Here cur lesson work, Magazine, genealogy and general Relief Society interests have been actively carried forward for a long period. The Eastern States Mission recently reorganized, and the Western and Southern States Society with the Northwestern States, all of them organized in later years, are forging rapidly ahead in every line of Relief endeavor. The growth of the Society in the European Mission has been phenomenal. We are exceedingly proud and grateful for the work done in that war-swept land of Europe, by our sisters, presided over until this summer by Sister Ida B. Smith, wife of President Hyrum M. Smith. The European Relief Society was engaged during the past year principally in the preparation of clothing and food materials for the destitute families of the soldiers in the trenches in the various nations which are at war, and where our branches are located. SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING. Our School of Obstetrics and Nursing is successfully going forward in this city, and a course in invalid cookery has been NEW YEAR EPISTLE. 5 added to the other courses. We recommend our stake and ward officers to increase the scope of this work by sending to us properly qualified students each year, so that the wards and towns can be supplied with Relief Society nurses, who are now such a necessary part of our social organization. PUBLIC HEALTH WORK. Closely associated with this work has been the activity manifested in our public health department. It was thought advisable to associate our efforts in Salt Lake with the city Board of Health in assisting to supply the milk depots with Relief Society nurses and matrons for these stations. Great good has thus been accomplished. our "magazine." Our Relief Society Magazine has succeeded beyond our utmost expectations. We thank you for your generous support, and suggest that you increase your efforts to make this Magazine the best possible official organ and medium of communication between your general officers, stake and ward Relief Societies. We increased the size of our Magazine 16 pages, during the past year, and so rapidly did our subscriptions pour in during the first three months that we were obliged to issue hundreds of copies more than we had at first planned for. The editorial policy of the Magazine has been to supply clean, wholesome, cheerful and helpful articles, consisting of the various departments found there, with the addition of the lesson work which occupies the most important part of our Magazine. We are greatly encouraged with the good reports which come from all parts of our Relief Society concerning the Magazine and feel that it has been a worthy successor to the noble Woman's Exponent which was so long and ably conducted and edited by our General President. Emmeline B. Wells. The increased expense of paper for this year, and of all other matters incurred in our publication, has been a serious problem, but we hope to make no changes in our subscription price and the other features of our Magazine. By strict economy of the management, and your own generous support, we shall reach the end of the year successfully and satisfactorily. GENEALOGY AND TEMPLE WORK. The efforts put forth in the study of genealogy and in the taking of excursions to the various temples by the members of this Society worthy of the highest commendation. The First C RELIEF SOCIETY M. IGAZINE. Presidency of the Church and the General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah, together with the Presidents of the various temples have expressed commendation and appreciation of the work done by the sisters in this matter. We should not slacken our efforts, for this work lies at the foundation of our spiritual life. Other temples are building, and others still will be built, in the near future, provided the Saints continue their activities in this direction. We suggest to you all the motto adopted by the Genealogical Committee of our General Board in regard to every phase of this genealogical and temple work. "Let us provoke the brethren to good works, and not provoke the brethren while we are doing the work." We suggest the continuance of primary genealogical lessons in the various wards, and that each member of the Society shall attend one day in a temple during the year 1917. or arrange for a substitute. Excursions on regular days to the Temples should be undertaken, always with the sanction and approval of the presiding priesthood. We hope you will prepare the index cards which have been partially distributed, and send them back to this office as soon as you have completed your task. More can be furnished on application to this office. GUIDE WORK. The Theological lessons will be supplemented this year by suggested chapters for reading the Scriptures. We are very desirous of having our members devote a portion of each day to the reading of the Scriptures. In the rush and hurry of modern life this pleasing pioneer custom has been considerably neglected and we are. therefore, giving a series of chapter readings which will illustrate and supplement our Theological lessons. The Literary lessons will appeal to all of our members, for they will help us to understand the written page and to develop a taste for good literature which otherwise is likely to be swept out of existence, in the flood of cheap papers and magazines which come to our homes. We congratulate ourselves upon this new study, and trust you will find it but a supplementary key added to the splendid lessons on Art and Architecture which have been given during the past two years. , HOME SCIENCE LESSONS. The General Board have united forces with the President of the Agricultural College of Utah and his associate teachers, in the presentation of our Home Science lessons. The study of Domestic Science and Art with associated studies in Sanitation and the care of children, has become a home necessity everywhere. NEW YEAR EPISTLE. 7 We have felt, therefore, the wisdom of taking advantage of the Smith-Lever provision which enables any organized body of women to receive trained help from the Agricultural Colleges, in the United States, through the College Extension Division, in any line of domestic problems. Our lessons which are prepared by experts, under the charge of the Agricultural College of Utah, will provide material, while their teachers can be invited to visit your wards and towns to lecture on these subjects whenever you are disposed to ask for their services. We would suggest that you assist in establishing this work on a firm foundation, and congratulate you on the pleasing results already obtained. Arrangements have been completed so that free scholarships in the District Round-Ups and in the Agricultural College itself are offered to our Relief Society chosen delegates. PENNY SUBSCRIPTION FUND. The Penny Subscription Fund which was very modestly undertaken and which was heartily approved by the First Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishopric, has resulted in a contribution which already exceeds our fondest hopes. Every woman who thus contributes of her means and teaches her children and grandchildren the beauty of this expression of sweet philanthropic emotions, will both benefit the temples in receiving the funds, and herself and family in the enlarged sympathies and spiritual understanding which will result through the exercise of this voluntary contribution. CLOTHING FOR THE DEAD. The department of clothing for the dead, conducted in this city has grown to substantial proportions. The clothing prepared under the supervision of Counselor Julina L. Smith is of the best materials obtainable, and the workmanship thereof is exquisite in design and beautiful in execution. All prices are arranged to suit the varying needs of individuals whose loved ones are to be clothed and laid away. In due time the labor and advantages of this department will extend in scope into the various stakes. With larger quarters in this city and more extended opportunities for growth, we shall hope to make this department of great value to every member of this Society and this Church. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME. Our home for women and girls is crowded all the time and we could wish for larger quarters, but prudence dictates a modest X RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and economical adjustment of our resources and we, therefore, have not as yet suggested any change in our present admirable an 1 comfortable home. INSURANCE. We invite the sisters to investigate and to accept of this excellent means of insuring themselves a decent and modest burial as well as the other forms of domestic insurance opened to us. Capitalized at home, every dollar paid in to this fund builds up our home state and our own people, thus preventing the outflow of money which is now pouring out of this state to eastern insurance centers. This department should be patronized liberally by all. as it is here at headquarters. GENERAL CONFERENCES . The two conferences  of the year were highly successful and productive of great good. Especially was the Teachers' Convention, during the October suggestions and hints to the great body of women who form our teachers' quorums. The topics suggested for the teachers to use will assist them in the furtherance of their good work. The Exchange Bureau, in the Presiding Bishop's Office, should be patronized by all our members who have any need for it. We are always glad to welcome representatives from our stakes at these general conferences , and we feel that all of us need them as a source of mutual assistance and inspiration. OUR CHARITY. We rejoice in the continued activity of our charitable works anil realize that it is largely through the continuous efforts of our sisters that there is so little poverty and suffering amongst this people. I et this always be the foundation stone of our Relief Society structure. Again, we would suggest the emphasis which should be placed upon our Testimony Meetings. These are the means of inspiring testimonies in those who have them not. of strengthening the faith in the hearts of those who have already been converted, and of encouraging and blessing the sisters everywhere. Center your efforts and give the best of your loving devotion, after your home duties have been accomplished satisfactorily, to the building up and developing of the Relief Society, not "strewing our ways to strangers. as the Bible phrases it, not giving our first love to worldly pursuits and associations; but let us confine  NEW YEAR EPISTLE. 9 cur labor chiefly within our own ranks and amongst the people of God. THE REFORM MOVEMENT. The First Presidency have called upon our Society to unite with the Young Ladies and Primary Associations in a reform movement, and the General Committees from these three Boards are actively engaged in the formulation of plans and resolutions which will be key-notes to us all in our conduct for the year 1917. We are in the world, but we should not partake of the evils thereof. Modesty in dress, restraint of appetite, observance of the Sabbath Day, and of the Word of Wisdom, decorum and dignity in our public worship and amusements should characterize the conduct and habits of every member of this Society. We are responsible, in great measure, for the good or bad conduct of our sons and daughters. With our long experience and training, with good words and good work, we feel secure in offering an assurance to the Presiding Authorities of the Church that this Society and all its members will actively engage in carrying out their counsels to the very letter. We offer to you, dear sisters, the hand of fellowship and blessing for the year 1917, the testimony of the General President, Emmeline B. Wells, her close association with the Prophet Joseph Smith and the founding of this Society, and with all the subsequent leaders thereof, her unquestioned integrity to the truth, her keen intelligence and her wise adaptation to constantly developing conditions, constitute her the leading voice and presence amongst our sex today. The testimony of her Counselors and her Board joins with hers in the happy announcement to you and to the world at large, that as the mothers and wives of the sons of men who hold the Priesthood in this day and generation, we will stand shoulder to shoulder with them in establishing righteousness upon this earth, that peace may come to all men of good will, and to the end that Christ's Kingdom may reign upon earth as it does in heaven. Emmeline B. Wells. President. Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor. Tulina L. Smith, Second Counselor.