[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Young]
[A Feather in Her Hat Sylvia Probst Young]

"His car looks like it has just come from a bandbox. The boy must be getting ready to go courting. Seems only yesterday I washed my one and only conveyance for travel, a wagon, and curried my team till they shone and drove to Ernest's grandmothers home to get my Martha and take her to the temple to marry her. Times change, but people remain about the same, always clean up to go courting." "And isn't it wonderful that they do, Grandpa, and that they remember what they do?" "Then Ernest's really going courtting? She better be good enough for him. Sarah, could it be that friend of Ruth's who was here last week? I hope so, for she was a real nice young woman, a real lady. You approve don't you, Sarah?" "Yes, Grandpa, I heartily approve. In fact, I was looking ahead when I invited Doris to go with us on our family picnic a year ago when Ernest was home on vacation. I wanted him to meet her and give the two a chance to see each other. They've corresponded occasionally since, and I liked what I saw last week. She is 358 a lovely girl, Grandpa, and right for my son, and that is saying a lot for her. And he is right for her, which is saying much for him. Oh, Grandpa, isn't this a wonderful world? And a beautiful day?" "Yes, Sarah, and a beautiful day to go courting." "And a beautiful day to remember going courting, Grandpa!" Sarah added. "Yes, my dear, I feel young as April myself. Get me a shining cloth, Sarah. Perhaps I can help a bit." "You, too, Grandpa? Has Ernest cajoled you into helping, also?" It was Ruth who spoke. She was eighteen, and although she spoke candidly her smile revealed the warmth of her heart and her love for her family. "Grandfather, you are simply the most! Shine it well, won't you?" Ernest was smiling, pleased as could be to see his old and beloved grandfather helping him. "Sure, my boy, and she better notice!" "She will, Grandfather. I'm sure she will." A half hour later, when the car had been minutely inspected and pronounced satisfactory, Ernest asked, "Dad, may I use your car a little while?" "Why not drive your own precious car?" It was Ruth's laughing voice. "Your car just might get a speck of dust on it. That's the reason, isn't it?" Her warm smile belied her words. "Yes, Sis, it might, where I am going." "And where are you going?" "Well, I thought I'd drive up the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 canyon a ways and get a sort of corsage for Doris." "A corsage! Up the canyon!" "A corsage of wild flowers wouldn't be so bad. I remember many's the time I took your grandmother a bouquet of sego lilies." Grandpa's eyes were twinkling. "And your father used to bring me mountain bluebells and wild roses he picked on the way. I loved them." Mother's eyes were shining. "May I go, Ernest? Please?" Ronny pleaded. "Tl help you get a corsage." "All right. Bring the shovel and those two boxes and let's get going." half hour later the two returned and Ernest carefully placed one of the boxes in the trunk of his car. The entire family, even to Grandpa, crowded about him. "A wild rosebush! What a lovely gift!" Mother's eyes held a glad light. "Do you think Doris will like it, Ernest?" Ruth asked seriously. It would never do for her sensitive and kindly brother to be humiliated. "Yes, she will like it, Ruth, so don't you worry over me getting hurt." Ernest smiled at his sister who was almost startled at his intuitive powers. "When Doris saw the wild rose in our garden, she said she wanted one in her garden some day. Remember, Mom, when I brought you your wild rose from the canyon?" "Indeed, I do, Ernest, and I've enjoyed my home garden wild roses each spring since.. You were such an eager little boy then. And I'm glad you are still eager even though you tower above me." Ronny whispered to Ernest who ALL FOR THE GOOD OF THE FAMILY. Quickly replied, ""No, I'm not forgetting. I shall do so now." He took the second box from the car, placed it in front of his mother and said, "Ronny and I thought you might like a corsage, too. We brought you this little cedar. I haven't disturbed the roots, so it should go right on growing. We couldn't leave out our best girl, could we, Ronny?" Ronny felt big and important to be included with Ernest in the giving of the tiny tree, and stood a little taller and straighter as his mother kissed them both. "Tm sure it will grow, you darlings, and what a lovely memory will be entwined in its branches as they reach outward and upward! Carry it to the back of the house in the shade. Father will plant it while you get cleaned up ready to go, and I finish with dinner." "Mother, do you feel as unsettled as I do?" Ruth asked. "I simply cannot settle down to anything. I'll be glad when we get Ernest off and on his way to Doris. He will like her parents, mother, and her brothers and sisters. 'There are eight of them, all younger than Doris. They're real people." Ruth and her mother were sitting on the front porch after dinner waiting to see Ernest off. "Did you spill the cologne on you?" Ruth cried in mock alarm as Ernest came out of the house. "Doesn't he look handsome and clean and good, Mother?" "And very much in earnest!" said Grandpa coming out to watch his grandson leave. "That's right, Grandpa, an earnest Ernest!" Wonder and admiration were in Ronny's voice. 359 "Don't drive too fast, son." It was Father who spoke as he joined the waiting group. "Dad simply has to give that bit of advice, Ernest." Ruth turned to her father and planted a light kiss on his cheek. "Well, I guess I'm all ready at last. Do I look all nght? Wish me luck, all of you." Ernest went to his mother, bent and kissed her gently on her forehead, and said, "Wish me the best, for I think 'm going to like Doris very, very much. You like her too, don't you?" "Yes, my dear, I do. Someday I may tell you a little secret. Remember I'm proud of you." RNEST waved at them as he drove away. His family stood by the gate in silence for a few long moments, then walked to the porch and sat down still silent, for already a great vacancy seemed to be felt within their hearts. It was Ronny who interrupted the quietness with a low whistle as he said, "I better feed my rabbits. I forgot all about them helping get Ernest off." He left quickly. "I think [ll go in and write to Sis and tell her every little detail." "You do that, Ruth. You have a way with letters, my dear. I can just see Bill and my four little grandsons smiling as Beth reads it to them." After she had gone, Sarah said, "Come, Grandpa, you've worked pretty hard this morning. You better take your afternoon rest a little early, hadn't you?" Sarah spoke softly. "T believe I will. I feel a bit tired." All of a sudden 360 "IT hope you didn't overdo, Father." His son's voice held concern. "IT hardly think I have. A little extra rest will make me good as new. Anyway I enjoyed it, and it was all for the good of the family. Doris is a splendid young woman, a fine addition to a good family." "Tell me the secret you will tell Ernest, Sarah. 'That is if you don't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 mind." Grandpa had gone in and Sarah and Thomas were alone. "Of course Pll tell you. It was over a year ago, when Doris first came home with Ruth for a week end. She helped so much and proved to be so sweet in every way that when she told me goodbye, I could not resist saying, "You're the kind of girl I hope to have for a daughter-in-law someday!' " 'hat Shy Days Mlay Be Long _ Ouida Johns Pedersen I think of father voicing family prayer From childhood days, when, chin upon the chair, I knelt. Petitioning in time, for us, became Jacob's ladders reaching to God's name, Testaments of light. Bibles of spark, To kindle our own fires against the dark. How humbly he used the Priesthood's power; When we were ill, he gently brought to flower Our budding faith, to us made clear I Each sacred ordinance; made us revere Doctrines of worship, covenants of truth, The iron rod to guide us in our youth. When settling his tithes, he often said, "The body needs to buy the spirit bread. The Lord has given us a chance to give In gratitude." Oh, may I ever live That scriptures of service, records of joy, my song, Shall honor him. May both our days be long! a. Wail NEEDLE MOUNTAINS NEAR SILVERTON, COLORADO Wayside Path Della Adams Leitner I took a little wayside path Not knowing where it led— Into the woods and by a brook That rippled as it sped Singing so merrily, and then I crossed a bridge and found An open space where cattle grazed— Wild flowers all around. A peaceful calm was in the air, The sky with white clouds piled Above the far horizon's rim; It seemed that nature smiled. Here, leaving doubts and cares behind, I gained an aftermath Of peace when from the old worn road I took a wayside path. Page 361 Around the World at kighty Etta B. Cowles had been married fifty years to my childhood sweetheart. We had more good than bad times while struggling for a living and an education. He was ambitious to become an educator. Not through high school at twenty-four, when we were married, twenty years elapsed before he received a Ph. D. He taught grade school, high school; became a university professor, and dean, and then a university president. At seventy years, he became very ill, and lived only six more years. After living alone for awhile, I became restless. I wanted to go places and see things. We had already been to Europe, Hawaii, Alaska, Mexico, and all over the United States, but when I inquired of steamship companies and tour agencies, they told me they wouldn't accept a lone woman over seventy. Last January I was looking over a teachers' magazine, and found three world tours. I sent a post card — just for fun; they sent me an application blank, which I filled out, with little hope of hearing from it, because I told them I was in my eightieth year. We corresponded. I obtained eleven shots, and material for passport and visas. In June, I received my ticket to go around the world! Then I told my five children. Excitement prevailed. "You cannot go, Mother; you can't stand the trip, physically or mentally — No, No, NO!" On the Fourth of July, 1959, I boarded a plane alone after midnight; didn't get off the plane until Page 362 New York; took a taxi to the hotel to meet the group of teachers. I was the first to arrive; in the afternoon the others came, one at a time, from all over the United States. Three men with wives, eighteen widows and maiden ladies — teachers and = supervisors from universities, high schools, elementary schools; all excited. For many, it was their first trip abroad. They were of all ages, had worked long and hard, and saved for years to take this tour. I was twenty years older than any of them. I kept up, saw everything, was not ill a minute for the next two months. Next morning we left by plane for Portugal. Lisbon is one of the pleasantest cities in Europe, with fine hotels, broad streets, flowers and green trees — just like a colored post card. I We were thrilled to go to Spain and Madrid. I met a_ beautiful Spanish lady, a friend of my son, at the airport. She gave me flowers and took me for a ride through the city. A land of bull fights, colored skies, water brilliant blue; broad, four-story houses, wide streets, flowers everywhere! Art galleries, museum treasures, courtesy everywhere. Then on to Rome. A thrill to see where the modern world had its roots — the Colosseum, the Vatican, the catacombs, Saint Peter's basilica. Just riding through the city and around the Appian Way was very romantic. I met my youngest son at the airport, the one in the Foreign Service. Athens, Greece, brought back my AROUND THE WORLD AT EIGHTY school days. Greece of antiquity, the birthplace of the mythical gods; land of legend and beauty which inspired art and philosophy. I rode a bus to the south of Greece, walked to the top of the hill to see the fabulous Parthenon like a crown on the rocky hill of the Acropolis. Walked in the ancient theatre of Epidaurus, fourth century B. C., which is still being used. We saw Corinth where, it is said, St. Paul wrote his Epistles; and many museums — one having the famous "Winged Victory." HEN a jet plane to Istanbul. There I met my oldest son who is United States Minister to Turkey. It was a real thrill to visit the Constantinople of our geography days, with my boy. We saw the Aya Sofia, a thousand years older than St. Peter's, one of the seven wonders of the world; the Sultan's harem, where he kept his many wives and a thousand virgins, his many jewels, crowns, and clothes. (Harems were done away with in 1927.) We saw the Blue Mosque (there are four hundred mosques in Istanbul) and rode on the Black Sea, and looked over the wall at Russia. The most important part of my trip was spent in Jerusalem and the Holy Land. When the itinerary I received in Salt Lake City showed we would be flying over Jerusalem to Cairo, I wrote to Washington, and they said they would make arrangements for a stop at Jerusalem. In Istanbul I found I was to go alone. No one else had made plans for Jerusalem. I told the manager not to tell my son; but someone found out, and told me not to go alone. My son heard her. "No, Mother, no." 363 I left alone in pitch darkness on a ten-passenger plane for Beirut, Lebanon. The moon was bright when I reached Beirut. A handsome young man met me, called my name, helped me under the ropes to the Customs to read my passport and visa. The guide and taxi driver took me to a fine hotel on the Mediterranean Sea. I registered. My room with a balcony overlooked the garden and the sea. I could distinguish the color of the flowers. I couldn't lock the door, so I pushed furniture against it, and I slept fine. At nine A. M., my guide and the taxi driver took me to a plane. It was a smaller plane and didn't fly very high. My excitement was great. It was an hour's ride to Jerusalem and the day was very bright and hot. I saw the River Jordan, with its green banks, and, in the distance, the Dead Sea. Oh, oh! There was Jerusalem! White rocks, tan hills, and old, old stone houses with little windows. No grass, flowers, trees — no streams of water. My guide was an Arab, a Moslem. He spoke good English, having attended the University of Jerusalem. The only book I took on this tour was the New Testament.