[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
S iterature—Ametica's Literature Comes of Age (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York. Preview of Lessons for 1961-62 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HE romantic spirit and philosophy dominated America's institutions, culture, and literature up to the outbreak of the Civil War (1861). Young America's imaginative enthusiasms and idealistic crusades and hopes were not original with her, nor were they unique, as the original patterns were brought from "Mother Europe." But in the journey to this wider expanse of earth, and as to the minds and hearts of those who dwelt thereon, the traditional values and patterns were not only transported to the new country, but they were translated as well. From our vantage point of the objectivity which a hundred years gives, we are helped to realize that nineteenth-century. American romanticism Was no more a mere carbon copy of European originals than it was entirely free of European influences. It is our immediate concern to define, study, and absorb the movement which stirred the stretching, sprawling giant of newborn America into the action which finally resulted in the "irrepressible conflict" (Civil War) which prefaced permanent unity and maturity. That movement was romanticism, which is complex. It is European and American, a shining idealism and exaggerated inward fear, a melancholy of death, and music of. The rural, peaceful heart. It' is the indignant hatred of any abuse or degradation of humankind. It is also a refusal to become embroiled in reform or turmoil, while an ideal- LESSON DEPARTMENT ized past or a non-earthly beauty entices one seemingly to soar above mortal travail. It is escape from increasing pressures and complexities of the age into an imagined inward self whose hidden sins and terrors become more real for the modern reader than either the writer or the world out of which such conflicts came. It is security and peace, at hearthside, seaside, home. But the list is too long—it is the total ways of feeling, thinking, remembering, and hoping which were America's imaginative identity and which are truly a rich legacy. Those men and their works which give us access to this tradition, both as it developed and as it continues to live have been organized into the following lessons for our year's study: Lesson 25 — Nathaniel Hawthorne, The Scarlet Letter Objective: To gain further insight into the American past and_ the human heart through a sympathetic reading of Hawthorne's masterpiece. Lesson 26 — John Greenleaf Whittier (1807-1892 ) Objective: To enter more fully into the nineteenth century by blending together Whittier's three voices as a Reformer, Quaker, and a New Englander. 417 Lesson 27 — Whittier, Lover of New England Objective: T@ study and appreciate Whittier's strong feelings toward place and time as revealed in his writings. Lesson 28 — Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, American Poet (1807- 1882 ) Objective: To renew acquaintance with Longfellow, America's best-loved and best-known poet. Lesson 29 — The Cosmopolitan Longfellow Objective: To free Longfellow from the easy judgments pronounced upon him by time, that we may properly evaluate his poetry. Lesson 30 — James Russell Lowell (1819-1891 ) Objective: To acknowledge Lowell as a representative symbol of mid-century American values and culture. Lesson 31 — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and Poetry (1809-1849) Objective: To review Poe's life that we may more truly read his works. Lesson 32 — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence Objective: To see in Poe's writings an attempt to attain perfection in literary craftsmanship and to recognize his art as an escape from his own conflicts.