[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Parker]
She saw the first Latter-day Saint settlers enter the Uintah Basin, when the site of the town of Roosevelt was a ren- CD EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 


 NO. 6 She 31st Annual Church Conference THE 131st Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 8, and g, 1961. This conference time, our beloved President David O. McKay marked his tenth anniversary as President of the Church. He conducted all the general sessions, and was assisted during the entire conference by President Henry D. Moyle. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Attended the Thursday morning session, but was advised by his physician to remain at home on Saturday and Sunday. The wise counsel and inspiring testimony of President Clark were greatly missed, and the love and appreciation of the membership of the Church were extended to him as a revered leader in Zion. All of the General Authorities, except President Clark and five others, addressed the saints assembled. Elder George Q. Morris and Elder Levi Edgar Young were excused from speaking on account of the condition of their health; Elder Hugh B. Brown was in South Africa, Elder Alvin R. Dyer, in Europe, and Elder A. Theodore Tuttle was in South America. More radio and television stations than ever before participated in broadcasting the conference messages to an estimated audience in excess of one million. Uplifting Page 370 music contributed greatly to the spirituality of all the sessions. The conference was a dedicated and sincere rejoicing in the principles and blessings of the restored gospel, and an earnest and heartfelt appeal for the saints to live fully all of the requirements of the Church. All members were urged to share their convictions and their testimonies with others through the far-reaching missionary system, and by daily living revealing the privileges and fulfillments of the gospel message. N his opening address, President McKay rejoiced in the interest and activity, in the devotion and faithfulness, of the youth of the Church, and their willing and enthusiastic response to calls to service. If the question were asked this morning, "In what respect during the last year has the Church made the most commendable progress?"... I would answer that the most encouraging progress of the Church during the last year is seen m the increased numbers of young people participating in Church activity. We hear much about the delinquency and incorrigibility of youth. I desire to say a word... About their corrigibility, as we have seen it in visiting the different parts of the Church. But I know and you know that mere attendance at Church, and other acts of piety, signify little if the person does not conform his acts and his speech to the principles of the gospel... Increased par- EDITORIAL ticipation in Church activity indicates a desire to be a partaker of spirituality, the highest acquisition of the soul, and young people desire it. Heaven guide you, our youth, wherever you are. As long as you will keep yourselves pure and spotless, and prayerfully and honestly keep close to your Father in heaven, his spirit will guide you, magnify you in your youth, and make you a power on the earth for good. N a fervent and inspired appeal for the saints to continue their efforts and their faithful adherence to the missionary program of the Church, President Henry D. Moyle urged the saints to verify in their own lives the necessity for sharing the gospel with the brotherhood of men upon the earth, declaring "We are the Lord's as are all our fellow men. 'This makes us all brothers and sisters, sons and daughters of God." In the lives of those of us who are the recipients of his great blessings, our duty is well understood, and we do not shirk it. Herein lies the reason for, and the foundation of all of our great missionary work, both at home and abroad. Having received a knowledge of the restoration of the gospel, we are impelled by a power far greater than any earthly power or 37] earthly influence to teach the gospel to others that they might enjoy the fulness of life in full fellowship with our Father in heaven, and in communion with us. Inasmuch as the fulness of times has now been revealed to man, we have all that has gone before in former dispensations of time to now present to men... Therefore the revelations of God to man through his prophets in the past... Are of immediate importance and application in our lives today.... The revelations of the past and the present reveal God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son to those who will read with a will to understand. God's laws are eternal. Our relationship to God is both unchanging and everlasting. In his closing address, President McKay left a prophet's blessing and a seer's spiritual admonition with the saints: And now, brethren and sisters, in summary, let me emphasize that the noblest aim in life is to strive to make other lives better and happier. The most worthy calling in life is that in which man serves best his fellow man. With all the power that we possess, we bless you, members of the Church of Jesus Christ. May the power and the inspiration that have characterized this great conference... Go to every corner of the earth where there is a branch or where a family lives, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen..~<_-—— Gnland Gulls Maude Rubin Now on this wild and sea-rocked night, With eyelids shuttered tight, I see a mountain ranch, silk tide of grass, A billowing meadow of timothy— Green sea Gilded with summer. There lazy shadows pass And repass, as the gulls In windless lulls Glide summer-free High overhead, wings motionless.... No stress Of ocean wind mars their serenity.

Mlama s Bookshelf Helen Hinckley Jones HETHER you have a house \\y so full of books that they have overflowed the bookcases and are stacked on every available surface in the house, or a home in which the library consists of a half-dozen carefully chosen volumes and a mail order catalogue, you and your family will be happier if Mama has a special bookshelf. When I was little and grew tired of my own books I would ask my mother to read aloud to me. "Read a book from your shelf,' I would beg. Then when I had washed my hands and brushed my hair, I was allowed to take a book from Mama's shelf and bring it to her. Most often it was her copy of Longfellow's poems which, because its binding was a lovely, soft, cream-colored leather, was kept in its own flowered box. I loved to open the box, lift the sheet of crackling transparent paper, and run my fingers over the hand-painted flowers on the cover. But [ liked even better mother's reading of the poems. Usually she read the shorter poems, but, often, I would beg for one of the long narrative poems and, if I could round up another of my sisters, Mama would consent to lose an afternoon to Miles Standish or Evangeline. Sometimes, instead of Longfellow, I would select one of the English poets, all done up in padded leather of maroon or blue, with fourteen karat gold edges. 'Tennyson was my favorite then, and I loved to sit on the floor, my hands locked under my knees, my head Page 372 against Mama's skirts, and listen again to "Enoch Arden." He call'd aloud for Miriam Lane and said: "Woman, I have a secret — only swear Before I tell you — swear upon the book Not to reveal it, till you see me dead." The tears would roll off my cheeks and drop onto my pinafore, because I knew that Enoch meant what he said—every word of it. Papa had books, too. The most favored ones were tremendous volumes filled with pictures from the Bible. (I closed my eyes as he turned past ""T"he Sacrifice of the Innocents.") He also had a book which he had made himself when he was in college—a_ captivating book filled with dried leaves and flowers and grasses of every kind. 'There were many other books, of course, since my parents were reading people. We each had books of our own. But it is Mama's Bookshelf that I remember as_ the strongest influence I felt toward acquiring a library of my own. N my home I have shelves loaded with books: history, literature, science, fiction, biography. The very number, I think, has kept my books from meaning as much to my children as Mama's shelf meant to me. Now that it is almost too late, I have started a special collection of books that are dearly loved and often read. I call it Mama's Bookshelf. I have The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon taken from their usual place beside other works of the Church. MAMA'S BOOKSHELF Then there is a New Testament in large print standing next to Brother Bennion's Teachings, and four other teference books for the study of the New Testament. I have a volume of Washington Irving, four of the Leather Stocking Tales, and The American Democrat by Cooper, The Portable Emerson and the Great Masterpiece edition of Hawthorne, which includes The Scarlet Letter, The House of the Seven Gables and selected stories from I'wiceTold Tales. For reference, I have Brooks, The Flowering of New England, Hart and Gohdes America's Literature, and Warfel, Gabriel, and Williams, The American Mind. My Relief Society Magazines are on the shelf, too, always in place and ready to my hand. It is understood that the shelf, itself, is strictly "hands off." There is room for more books on the shelf, and there are stacks of books all over the house that need shelf space; but odd volumes must not clutter up this shelf. As for the books— anyone who will put them back in place may borrow them and enjoy them. In a locality where the idea of Mama's Bookshelf was introduced, it has been noted that already this small beginning has been felt in the homes. Husbands are taking an interest and listening to excerpts from the books their wives are reading. Children are hearing adult conversation about ideas rather than personalities and troublesome problems. One sister reported that her grandchildren had added _ books related to the course in American literature to her shelf. On my own shelf the books are not beautifully bound as my 373 mother's were. Many of them are paper-back, others are secondhand or cheap editions. But they are wonderful books, books that bring me the association with great men. The books are mine and I love them. But I am not selfish about them. Books are to be enjoyed, shared, lived with. LL of us hunger for conversation with the well-informed, the deeply spiritual, the witty, the prophetic. To many of us wide association in our daily lives is not possible. Any mother of little children must live a large part of her life in the world of childhood. This is an opportunity and she appreciates it; but it does not take the place of being intellectually stimulated, emotionally stirred, moved to depths of thought and contemplation that come from living in a truly adult world. Mama's Bookshelf, especially if it is shared with husband and with children as they grow older, will help to satisfy this hunger. Let Mama's Bookshelf take a place in your home. 'Try reading aloud to even your tiny children the things that you, yourself, love. Now that my mother has died, I have her bookshelf. All of the volumes are duplicates of my own wellstudied texts; but I wouldn't part with one of them. As I look at them a warm feeling comes over me, and I see myself, a little girl with paper-curled hair, standing on tiptoe to take Longfellow from the shelf. I run my hand over the spray of flowers painted on the soft leather cover, then, oh, so carefully I turn to the story of Hiawatha and settle myself at my mother's knee.