[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Cannon]
[Work Meeting — Attitudes and Manners Elaine Anderson Cannon]
is  working  to  assist  her  husband 
through  the  Church  College  of 
Hawaii.  We  rode  around  the  Is- 
land, swam  in  the  ocean,  and  en- 
joyed the  different  foods,  plus  a 
hukilau. 
I  met  my  daughter  in  San  Fran- 
cisco, and  a  son  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
My  trip  around  the  world  was  over. 
y^reat  or  Small 
Hazel  Loomis 
Man,  great  man, 
Subduer  of  the  earth! 
The  blade  you  wrought — a  mountain  now  is  gone, 
A  river's  course  is  changed. 
You  give  us  comfort,  ease  our  pain, 
Enhance  our  vision  to  outer  space. 
Space  rockets  out! 
Great  man  explore! 
And  yet  ,  .  . 
You  cannot  make  a  blade  of  grass, 
A  grain  of  wheat. 
You  cannot  change  the  circuit  of  the  wind 
Or  cause  the  desert's  blossoming. 
You  cannot  give  the  heart 
A  greater  ecstasy  —  a  soul  reborn. 
Man,  great  man,  alone, 
Is  small.  Is  small!

c^ixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  1901 
*'FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
BRIGHAM  YOUNCrS  BIRTHDAY  —  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS:  The  first 
day  of  June  of  this  present  year  marked  the  century  hour  of  the  birth  of  Brigham 
Young,  the  founder  of  Utah,  the  great  pioneer,  colonizer  and  organizer,  and  for  forty- 
three  years  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Brigham 
Young  was  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  the  nineteenth  century,  perhaps  the  greatest 
except  Joseph  Smith,  certainly  so  considered  by  the  people  among  whom  almost  his 
entire  life  was  spent.  His  was  a  master-spirit,  and  a  mind  quick  to  grasp  and  settle  — 
great  and  grave  questions.  ...  He  had  a  wonderful  faculty  of  controlling  and  of  guid- 
ing people  of  all  classes  and  nationalities.  .  .  .  And  as  time  rolls  on  more  and  more  will 
the  people  of  the  world  be  willing  to  acknowledge  his  good  works,  his  deeds  of  valor  .  .  . 
his  greatness  of  soul. 
— Editorial 
A  FAITHFUL  WOMAN:  June  14,  1869,  the  Relief  Society  of  this  ward  (Fair- 
view,  Utah)  was  organized  and  Sister  Mary  A.  Pritchett  was  chosen  its  president,  which 
responsible  position  she  has  held  with  dignity  and  pride  up  to  the  day  of  her  decease,
