[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine because it is always upbuilding, and it is an inspiration to me.

Being a theology class leader here in Holland, I rely a great deal on the helpful hints that I find in the Magazine. My family, also has benefited from the spiritual food contained in the Magazine. I have been recently chosen to serve as stake president of the Relief Society in the Holland Stake, the first stake of Zion in the Netherlands, and I am sure the Magazine will help me in my work. —Nora L. A. Lefrandt-Simons The Hague, Holland

My husband is attending school here in Maryland, but our home is in Oregon, and we often feel so very far from those we love. The Relief Society Magazine is just like a visit home. I find the advice on thrift and budgeting (such as "New Stockings From Old Ones," by Shirley Thulin, in the February Magazine, and all the recipes) especially helpful. The article on making doll clothes ("Let's Dress Dolls for Christmas") by Shirley Thulin, in December, was a great help at Christmastime. Our student budget doesn't allow for a very elaborate Christmas, but our four-year-old daughter was rewardingly thrilled with the suitcase full of clothes for her doll which I was able to make with the help of the Magazine. —Norma S. Davis Baltimore, Maryland

I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine ever since the first year of my married life, which is now fortyseven years, and I can't begin to tell you how much my family and I enjoy reading it. I can hardly wait from one month to the next until the new Magazine arrives. —Mrs. Henry Dattage Providence, Utah.

We congratulate you on the excellent quality of each issue of our Magazine. It is a continual source of inspiration to our sisters. —LaVerda O. Lloyd President, Mt. Jordan Stake Relief Society Sandy, Utah

May I express my appreciation for the excellent serials which we have been having in our Magazine. The current one "Love Is Enough" is interesting and very well written. And I especially enjoyed the previous serial "Orchids in the Snow," by Rosa Lee Lloyd, with its timely Alaskan background. —Norma Wrathall Sunnyvale, California

The cover of the April Relief Society Magazine (the Assembly Hall on Temple Square) brings back wonderful memories of my first visit to 'Temple Square last fall with the Big Horn Stake Singing Mothers. Singing in the Tabernacle was a wonderful thrill and a highlight in my life I shall always remember. The covers are always beautiful, but the April one has a special place in my heart. —Agnes Collins Lovell, Wyoming

Last June I received my first copy of The Relief Society Magazine as a gift from Mrs. Helen Pearson of Salt Lake City, and it was a very nice surprise to me. My husband and I enjoy the lovely stories and the beautiful cover pictures very much. As I commute by the New York subway every day, it is a pleasure to read the Magazine on my way to work. —Mrs. Nelly Van Der Woude Hollis, Long Island New York

The Relief Society Magazine has been in my family for many years, as my mother and grandmother both subscribed to it all their lives, as my sister and I are doing now. We love and appreciate this splendid Magazine. The lessons are so well written and give satisfying material each time. The helps for mothers in the home are outstanding, interesting, and unique. I have always loved literature, and the articles, stories, and poetry are very enjoyable.. My husband and I have nine children, the oldest of whom is serving in the Western States Mission. —Mrs. Emeline Young Watts Logan, Utah