[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Serendipity]
Serendipity Albera Baker N the office where I work is a patent lawyer. 'These men feed on a kind of literature that is incomprehensible to ordinary people The descriptions of patents are in a language all their own. I quote from a pamphlet which came in the mail a few weeks ago: ""The descriptions of patents are obtusely expressed, containing myriads of necessary qualifications, and extremely complex phrases running about 250 words." Sandwiched in this publication, J found a delightful article on "Serendipity" — as out of place there as a diamond tiara in a package of Cracker Jack. Serendipity is a word coined by Hugh Walpole, referring to adventures on a mythical island of Serendip. It refers to the discovery of things unsought, the plus value which comes when one performs some routine act with an unexpected and rewarding result. The word covers the faculty of a person for dipping into things and finding, either by accident or by sagacity, something good which was not sought. For instance, a man was struck by a car. From his hospital bed he tried to remember why he, a cautious man, had missed seeing the car coming. He realized that the wide bow of his glasses shut out the very space where he would have had a side view of the oncoming car. He is the man who invented the high-bowed glasses worn universally now — leaving clear vision out of the corners of the eyes. He made plenty of money from that accident — he certainly did not expect to. How many Oklahoma _ farmers were just trying to farm when they found oil? Did you read of the night John D. Rockefeller could not sleep, and got his Bible to read? He read of the basket in which the baby Moses was put, made of woven willows and covered with pitch. Rockefeller knew the pitch must have been a form of petrcleum, so he visited the land of Moses and looked there for oil. There were vast supplies there. He had not expected to make millions from reading his Bible that night. Serendipity — it is in the whole working of our Church, and, especially, in Relief Society. A visiting teacher and her companion are making their regular visits. 'They have called so often in this particular home. Today, as usual, they give the message, and something happens. 'The woman, who has been indifferent, is moved, and agrees to come back to Church. She has, somehow, found the strength to change her point of view. She is going to give the Church another chance to serve her. Take the day when you were sure you could never go to Relief Society — you were so tired.. But you saw your neighbor in the yard and remembered you had promised to invite her to Relief Society. 'This would be a good meeting, so you asked her if she would go. She became interested and came again. Page 353 354 Now she is a member. Isn't that an unexpected reward? Serendipity. You are standing in the foyer in church. Nobody is speaking to you, but in the corner alone is that new member — baptized only two weeks ago. You go over to speak with her. You find she is interested in many things that interest you, and she speaks of finishing some slip covers. You have been wanting to make some, but didn't quite dare start. She offers to show you how. Just through talking with her — through making the effort to speak and make her feel at home, you have a lovely set of slip covers. Isn't that Serendipity? Perhaps you are a Magazine representative. Your book shows only one renewal due this month. Is it worthwhile to phone this sister and ask that she renew — you could wait and send it with some others next month? But you call her. She is so grateful. "I wouldn't want my subscription to expire," she tells you. "I had forgotten about it. I especially want these coming issues because I am so interested in the 'Care of the Sick in the Home' lessons. I want to keep them for reference." Doesn't it make you feel glad that you called her? Doesn't her appreciation give you a sort of glow? VERY now and then a member of the Priesthood, often in testimony meeting, mentions something his wife has told him she learned at Relief Society. It is something important, or beautiful, or some skill. To him it is worthy of mention. Isn't that Serendipity — to have one's husband so imRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 pressed over some by-product of Relief Society? Do you know my very best Serendipity? It was my trip to Yellowstone Park, with a day in Denver and a day in Salt Lake. Ah, that day in Salt Lake City. That was when I met my very first Latterday Saints, which resulted in my becoming interested. My membership has proved to be my greatest bonus. Serendipity is like an investment. You put in a little, expecting to get three per cent. But before you know it, you are getting great big dividends, far more than you had expected or dreamed of. In Relief Society this is a constant thing. Our Heavenly Father planned this organization, and it would be perfect if we would only allow it to be. We ourselves hold it back, sometimes by indifference or criticism, by our neglect, our carelessness, our lack of co-operation, or even direct opposition. But if we attend the meetings, perform the duties assigned to us to the very best of our abilities, and do whatever we do with our whole heart and soul, then what de we get? For one thing we grow; we learn; we become more patient; we enlarge our scope of interests; we reach out and help others. At first it may be in a small way, and then we extend ourselves and sacrifice a little, and look for more ways to be of service. We arrange our time a little better, we become more efficient in managing our home, or in handling our children. We try harder to have our meals more nourishing and interesting. And, before we know it, people are asking how we do this or that. They notice our growing capabilities and SERENDIPITY wish to learn. Here is the society for adult improvement. HE program is complete. It covers every facet of our lives. If we skip part of it, that leaves a section undeveloped. But if we take advantage of the entire program, we will be amazed at the Serendipity which will result. We need to put our enthusiasm, our whole mind and heart into the wonderful work which is planned for us. This is not an organization for selfish aims of personal aggrandizement. It is where we learn to live to the fullest and help others to live. It is where we develop not only our minds and skills, but our very souls. Nobody can participate in the whole Relief Society program without becoming a better person. What do you tell your children when they come home from school and say, "I hate arithmetic," or "I hate English," or "I can't stand history?" You remember _ that, maybe, you were not too keen on one of these, either, but now you know how very important it was that your mind be trained along all of those lines. It is the same now. Our minds and lives need the training of Relief Society. We need the spiritual education in theology, the social awakening to the realization 355 of our need for understanding in this nuclear age. We need to know the minds of the people of the past as expressed in their literature, and to compare their views with the thinking and living of nowadays. We need all the domestic skills we can acquire that we may have more pleasant, more loving, more influential homes in which to rear our families. After a year of Relief Society, look back and enumerate the things you have accomplished, the ideas which have grown, the new understanding you have developed, the expansion which has taken place in your soul, and in your realization of your place in this world. You will remember the joy of accomplishment in something you made, the wonderful spirit of a_ testimony meeting you attended, where you felt your tiredness melt away and the resurge of wonderful vigor and dedication. All of this is Serendipity — the wonderful rewards which unexpectedly come in the natural course of doing our everyday duties. And any day when you feel discouraged, begin adding up your Serendipity. You will find you are richer than you know. May we all strive to be better members of Relief Society, looking for ways to improve ourselves, ways to grow, and ways to help others. >_< Appreciation Evelyn Fijeldsted The best of life from sorrow is distilled; Progression waits in time's relentless storms. Appreciation, taught by deprivation, Is unalloyed and holds intrinsic charms. The greatest joy that living brings Is reached on slow and weighted wings. All for the Good of the Family Mabel Law Atkinson 66 OM, where do you keep M the attachments for the vacuum? I can't find them, and I'm rather rushed for time." Ernest Peters' voice was pleasantly urgent. "They're supposed to be in the hassock with the vacuum, in the lid compartment. Did you look there, son?" His mother's voice was gentle, for gentleness and patience were as much a part of Sarah Peters as fragrance and beauty are of April violets. "But why do you need the vacuum this morning? Ruth went through the whole house yesterday. Did you spill foot powder on the rug as you did last summer when you were home on vacation?" Ernest smiled broadly, gave his mother the sh sign with his finger to his lips, then answered, "No, Mom, nor did I empty the dirt from my shoes either, as I used to do. This is different. You see I have quite a job ahead of me this morning, to get my pride and joy in tiptop shape. I must look lke a promising and prosperous man this afternoon when I stop at a certain home in a certain city." Sarah Peters smiled as _ she watched him stride down the path to the gate and get in his "new" 1957 car, an electric cord trailing behind him from the porch light socket. "It's the biggest piece of foolishness I've ever heard tell of, this fussing over his car this way." 'Thomas Peters, Ernest's father, was joining two lengths of hose as he spoke. "Who ever heard of anything so Page 356 ridiculous! Why, he just washed his car a few days ago when he first came. It hasn't even got good and dusty yet." Mrs. Peters' eyes were dancing as they met her husband's. "I seem to remember a perfectly clean onehorse buggy stopping at the gate of my father's ranch every Saturday afternoon of a certain summer. Let's see, that was over thirty-five years ago, wasn't it? Surely you must have shined it up each week and perhaps your family helped you." Mr. Peters grinned at his wife, then a startled look replaced the laughter in his eyes as he asked, "But, Mother, you don't mean that Ernest is...?" Before he could finish his wife interrupted, "Yes, that's just what I do mean. I guess you didn't use your eyes to good advantage last week when you saw him with Doris. Now go along and be happy about washing an already clean car while Ernest does a professional job on the upholstery. Ronny can shine the hub caps and the lights for you." Thomas Peters whistled and his steps quickened with youth. "So Ernest is at last growing up!" he mused, "coming into his heritage. His rightful heritage of becoming a man!" As he washed the car carefully he found himself recalling the times he had washed every yellow spoke of the wheels of his freshly painted buggy. Black and yellow looked pretty together, too, he said silently to himself. And I had to carry water from the river. No garden hose connected to a hydrant. ALL FOR THE GOOD OF THE FAMILY His grin broadened as he remembered bribing his big sis and his small brother to help him. "And didn't my bay mare shine in the sun after I was through currying her and combing her mane and tail! Those were the days!" he thought reminiscently. "Mother, do you think Ernest will be as proud of his car as I was of my buggy those years ago?" Thomas Peters had returned to the door where Sarah stood watching for a few moments before beginning her morning's baking. "And tell me, did you notice how shiningclean my buggy was, even to the whip holder and the harness?" "Yes, I'm sure I did. I distinctly recall the beauty of the clean creamcolor lap robe with its raised red roses.