[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Oil | Author: Hales]
[Oil Painting Shirley Ann M. Hales]

"Of course, you are a nice little girl, honey, but the teacher was nght when she said that you shouldn't treat your friends or anybody that way. It isn't being honest with them or yourself. Now, let's go wash your face. We won't talk about it any more right now, but we'll see what your father has to say when he gets home tonight." That evening after dinner Lydia discussed Sue Ann with Ned, explaining how the child had been acting lately. "How in the world did she ever get started doing that?" Ned inquired. "She can't go around hiding in the closet from people. I just won't have her acting that way." "I know, dear. I have talked to her and told her time and time again, but the more I seem to talk, the worse she gets. I just can't seem to shame her out of it." Lydia sighed. ""What do you think we should do?" "Well, Vl tell you one thing. When I was a youngster, I was deprived of certain privileges if I didn't mind. It hurt a lot worse than if my father had spanked me." Ned thought for a moment. "We'll just have to stop her allowance this week and she won't be allowed to go to the movies this Saturday." "Oh, Ned, no," Lydia objected. "She looks forward to the movies on Saturday, and all her little friends go, too. I can see stopping the allowance, but not the movies." "Lydia, I think that we both agree that Sue Ann has to stop this habit. How will she know that we really 398 mean business, if we don't take some steps? Now as much as she enjoys the movies, I am sure that in order to go, she'll stop her convenient little stories," Ned persisted. "All right, Ned, but I hope that you will tell her what we have decided. I don't want to,' Lydia added. Ned put his arm about Lydia. "Tf it is that painful for you, I'll tell her. I don't want to hurt her feelings any more than you do, dear, but enough of this nonsense is enough." ED walked softly into the bedroom where Sue Ann lay looking ata book. "Time to go to sleep now, honey,' Ned said looking down at Sue Ann. She looked like a little doll lying there, with her wide blue eyes and curly hair. Ned felt a lump in his throat as he started to speak. It was so hard to reprimand either her or Jerry. Ned sat down on the bed beside his daughter and tucked the blankets up about her. "Honey, I've been talking to your mother, and she tells me that you have been telling stories that aren't true to get tid of people when you haven't wanted to see them. You know that Heavenly Father wants us to be honest, don't you?" Sue Ann nodded. "Well, then, this can't be very honest, can it?" Ned's voice was little more than a whisper. "Daddy and Mother don't want you to do these things, and your Mother has spoken to you before about it, but you don't seem to remember. Now, to make sure that you won't do this again, we're not going to give you any allowance this week, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 we're not going to let you go to the movies with your little friends. When you stop telling untruths, then you will get your allowance and can go to the movies again." "Oh, Daddy, no, no,' Sue Ann cried as she buried her head in her pillow. "You wouldn't do that to me." Ned soothed his daughter. "I want you to know, Sue Ann, that it is Only because we love you very much that we are doing this. Now you go to sleep." The next morning Sue Ann asked her mother, "Mommy, Daddy didn't really mean it did he, about not getting my allowance or going to the movies?" "Yes, we both mean it, Sue Ann." Lydia was unhappy just looking at the hurt, bewildered expression on Sue Ann's face. "When you stop telling stories that aren't true, then you can have your allowance again and go to the movies, but not until." Sue Ann started to cry and was still in tears when she left for school. That evening Sue Ann tried again. "Mommy, if I promise right now that I won't tell any more stories or anything like that, can I go to the movies this Saturday?" "No, Sue Ann, not this Saturday. You've promised Mommy many times before, but always you have broken your promise." Sue Ann moped around the house the rest of the week, having very little to say. It was a strain on the rest of the family as well as Sue Ann, but Ned and Lydia had decided to remain firm. When Saturday arrived, one of Sue Ann's little friend's mother called to tell Lydia that she would TRUTH IS SUBLIME pick Sue Ann up to take her to the movies, and Lydia explained that Sue Ann wouldn't be going. Sue Ann heard the conversation, but she didn't utter a word in protest. When Jerry left for the movies, she still didn't show any visible sign of emotion. "It seems to have worked," Lydia told Ned. "Sue Ann hasn't told one story. I think that she is even starting to like Carolyn. She doesn't try to avoid her any more." "We should have done this long ago, Lydia," Ned said. "I think that we can let her go to the movies this coming Saturday, and also give her an allowance again." Lydia was pleased. "You tell her, Ned. She'll be so happy." Even Jerry was happy when he learned that Sue Ann could have her privileges back again. 'Gosh, Mom," he said, "I just hate to see her feel hurt." HAT Saturday Lydia was rushing to get ready for a meeting and to get Sue Ann ready for the movies, when she noticed a salesman approaching their house. "Oh, dear, Sue Ann, here comes a salesman, and Mommy just hasn't time to talk to him today. We are almost late now." Lydia was frustrated.