[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
c^ixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  1901 
*'FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
BRIGHAM  YOUNCrS  BIRTHDAY  —  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS:  The  first 
day  of  June  of  this  present  year  marked  the  century  hour  of  the  birth  of  Brigham 
Young,  the  founder  of  Utah,  the  great  pioneer,  colonizer  and  organizer,  and  for  forty- 
three  years  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Brigham 
Young  was  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  the  nineteenth  century,  perhaps  the  greatest 
except  Joseph  Smith,  certainly  so  considered  by  the  people  among  whom  almost  his 
entire  life  was  spent.  His  was  a  master-spirit,  and  a  mind  quick  to  grasp  and  settle  — 
great  and  grave  questions.  ...  He  had  a  wonderful  faculty  of  controlling  and  of  guid- 
ing people  of  all  classes  and  nationalities.  .  .  .  And  as  time  rolls  on  more  and  more  will 
the  people  of  the  world  be  willing  to  acknowledge  his  good  works,  his  deeds  of  valor  .  .  . 
his  greatness  of  soul. 
— Editorial 
A  FAITHFUL  WOMAN:  June  14,  1869,  the  Relief  Society  of  this  ward  (Fair- 
view,  Utah)  was  organized  and  Sister  Mary  A.  Pritchett  was  chosen  its  president,  which 
responsible  position  she  has  held  with  dignity  and  pride  up  to  the  day  of  her  decease, 
February  27,  1901.  ...  As  we  review  in  mind  her  life  work  we  wonder  if  there  are 
many  who  ever  with  so  scanty  opportunity  performed  so  many  blessed  deeds  of  charity 
and  benevolence.  She  was  ever  at  the  bedside  of  the  sick;  her  motherly  counsel  was 
never  sought  in  vain  by  man,  woman  or  child;  the  needy  were  never  refused  assist- 
ance when  they  applied  to  her,  and  were  usually  supplied  with  employment  —  the  best 
of  help  to  the  poor.  Her  spinning  and  weaving  never  pressed  her  so  hard  that  she  had 
not  time  to  attend  to  her  religious  duties.  .  .  . 
— Euphrasia  Day,  Sec. 
We  need  not  wealth  nor  splendor. 
Wide  hall  nor  lordly  dome; 
The  good,  the  true,  the  tender  — 
These  form  the  wealth  of  home. 
— Selected 
DOMESTIC  LIFE  AND  THE  PROFESSIONS:  True,  it  might  well  be  said, 
that  the  proper  order  of  things  should  be  for  the  father  to  be  the  bread-winner,  and 
the  mother  the  home-maker;  for  the  ideal  home  is  consecrated  by  both  paternal  and 
maternal  love,  and  its  sweetest  music  the  prattle  of  little  children.  But  inscrutable  are 
hfe's  experiences!  Oftentimes  woman  must  meet  the  exigencies  of  the  case  alone  and 
unaided,  she  must  do  and  dare,  lift  the  burden  and  look  to  heaven  for  strength  and 
light  and  wisdom.  The  true  womanly  woman  will  make  the  best  wife  and  mother, 
whate'er  may  be  her  vocation. 
— Ellis  R.  Shipp 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  ST.  JOSEPH  STAKE  (ARIZONA):  The  semi-annual 
conference  of  the  Relief  Society  of  St.  Joseph  Stake  met  in  the  Pima  meeting  house, 
Friday,  May  17,  1901  .  .  .  President  Elizabeth  Layton  presiding.  Present  on  the  stand 
were  Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  and  President  Emma  S.  Woodruff  of  Salt  Lake  City.  .  .  . 
Sister  Woodruff  said  she  found  the  saints  here  about  as  they  are  in  the  north.  .  .  . 
Urged  the  sisters  to  subscribe  for  the  Exponent.  Advised  mothers  to  look  after  their 
children  and  train  their  daughters  to  do  all  kinds  of  work.  .  .  . 
— Martha  Scadden,  Sec. 
Page  368

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
M RS.  GEORGIA  O'KEEFE 
STIEGLITZ,  recognized  by 
many  critics  as  the  most  eminent 
of  women  painters  in  the  United 
States,  exhibited  a  large  collection 
of  her  paintings  recently  at  the 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  Art  Mu- 
seum. Praised  for  her  ''totally  per- 
sonal and  inimitable  work,"  Mrs. 
Stieglitz  has  been  called  ''a  superb 
and  unerring  craftsman,"  who,  at 
the  age  of  seventy-two,  continues  to 
grow  in  technical  mastery  and  emo- 
tional depth.  Born  in  Sun  Prairie, 
Wisconsin,  Mrs.  Stieglitz  now  lives 
in  a  century-old  adobe  house  in 
Abiquiu,  New  Mexico. 
IV/TRS.  WALLACE  F.  (FRAN- 
^  -■■  CES)  BENNETT,  wife  of 
Utah's  senior  Senator,  is  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Congressional  Club  in 
Washington,  D.  C.,  which  includes 
wives  of  all  Senators,  Congressmen, 
Cabinet  Members  and  Justices  of 
the  Supreme  Court.  The  wives 
of  the  President  and  Vice-President 
of  the  United  States  are  honorary 
members.  These  women  are  active 
in  Red  Cross  and  other  humanitar- 
ian work,  and,  with  many  distin- 
guished speakers  appearing  on  the 
programs  at  their  meetings,  they 
strive  to  further  international  as 
w^ell  as  national  friendship  and  un- 
derstanding. Mrs.  Bennett  is  the 
daughter  of  the  late  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  and  Emily  Wells  Grants 
and  is  active  in  Relief  Society  and 
other  Latter-day  Saint  Church  activi- 
ties in  Washington. 
■pjORA  S.  LEWIS,  eminent  au- 
thor and  a  professor  and  chair- 
man of  the  home  economics 
department  at  Hunter  College,  New 
York,  in  answer  to  the  question, 
''What  should  a  girl  learn  in  order 
to  be  a  good  homemaker?"  gave  the 
following  list  of  accomplishments: 
skill  in  human  relationships;  clear, 
integrated  thinking;  grasp  of  com- 
munity and  world  economic  prob- 
lems; capacity  to  teach  democracy 
in  the  home;  and  efficiency  in  home 
management. 
lyrRS.    TAVIAN    LINCOLN,    a 
Ute  Indian,  living  at  White- 
rocks,  on  the  Uintah  Indian 
Reservation,  Utah,  is  now  113  years 
old,  one  of  the  oldest  women  in  the 
United  States.  She  is  a  renowned 
horsewoman,  and  with  her  sisters 
has  made  many  trips  into  Colorado. 
She  remembers  seeing  the  one  small 
cabin  which  was  the  beginning  of 
the  city  of  Denver.  She  saw  the 
first  Latter-dav  Saint  settlers  enter 
the  Uintah  Basin,  when  the  site  of 
the  town  of  Roosevelt  was  a  ren- 
dezvous for  wild  horses.  Mrs.  Lin- 
coln still  chops  her  own  wood  and 
cooks  her  own  food. 
Page369

EDITORIAL 
VOL  48 
JUNE  1961 
NO.  6 
Qjhe  i3ist  ,yinnuai  (church  (^onfe 
T^HE  131st  Annual  Conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the 
historic  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  April  6,  8,  and  9,  1961. 
This  conference  time,  our  beloved 
President  David  O.  McKay  marked 
his  tenth  anniversary  as  President  of 
the  Church.  He  conducted  all  the 
general  sessions,  and  was  assisted 
during  the  entire  conference  by 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle.  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  attended 
the  Thursday  morning  session,  but 
was  advised  by  his  physician  to  re- 
main at  home  on  Saturday  and 
Sunday.  The  wise  counsel  and 
inspiring  testimony  of  President 
Clark  were  greatly  missed,  and  the 
love  and  appreciation  of  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  were  extend- 
ed to  him  as  a  revered  leader  in 
Zion.  All  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties, except  President  Clark  and  five 
others,  addressed  the  saints  assem- 
bled. Elder  George  Q.  Morris  and 
Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  were  ex- 
cused from  speaking  on  account  of 
the  condition  of  their  health;  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown  was  in  South 
Africa,  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  in 
Europe,  and  Elder  A.  Theodore  Tut- 
tle  was  in  South  America. 
More  radio  and  television  stations 
than  ever  before  participated  in 
broadcasting  the  conference  mes- 
sages to  an  estimated  audience  in 
excess    of    one    million.     Uplifting 
Page  370 
ere  nee 
music    contributed    greatly   to    the 
spirituality  of  all  the  sessions. 
The  conference  was  a  dedicated 
and  sincere  rejoicing  in  the  prin- 
ciples and  blessings  of  the  restored 
gospel,  and  an  earnest  and  heartfelt 
appeal  for  the  saints  to  live  fully 
all  of  the  requirements  of  the 
Church.  All  members  were  urged 
to  share  their  convictions  and  their 
testimonies  with  others  through  the 
far-reaching  missionary  system,  and 
by  daily  living  revealing  the  privi- 
leges and  fulfillments  of  the  gospel 
message. 
TN  his  opening  address,  President 
McKay  rejoiced  in  the  interest 
and  activity,  in  the  devotion  and 
faithfulness,  of  the  youth  of  the 
Church,  and  their  willing  and  en- 
thusiastic response  to  calls  to  serv- 
ice. 
If  the  question  were  asked  this  morn- 
ing, "In  what  respect  during  the  last  year 
has  the  Church  made  the  most  com- 
mendable progress?"  ...  I  would  answer 
that  the  most  encouraging  progress  of  the 
Church  during  the  last  year  is  seen  in 
the  increased  numbers  of  young  people 
participating  in  Church  activity.  We  hear 
much  about  the  delinquency  and  incor- 
rigibility of  youth.  I  desire  to  say  a 
word  .  .  .  about  their  corrigibility,  as  we 
have  seen  it  in  visiting  the  different  parts 
of  the  Church.  .  .  . 
But  I  know  and  you  know  that  mere 
attendance  at  Church,  and  other  acts  of 
piety,  signify  little  if  the  person  does  not 
conform  his  acts  and  his  speech  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  .  .  .  increased  par-