[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Solve a | Author: Thuin]
Put the coat on the child, being sure to button the butPage 390 SOLVE A "LENGTHY" PROBLEM 391 tons, so that it will hang the way it should while measuring for the hem. Determine the length from the floor that you want the coat to be and pin or mark with tailor chalk all around, using a yardstick or hem marker. Now press up on the wrong side with a damp cloth or steam iron all around at the marked line, and cut off to leave one and one-half inches from the pressed line. Sew seam 'binding around this edge and blind stitch the hem into place. Now press well again. If the sleeves are too short, and the bottom sleeve hem is wide enough, the same opcration can be used to lengthen them. If the hem is too narrow to be let out, cut it off. Sew a strip of heavy fabric such as wool, velveteen, or corduroy, around the bottom of the coat. Press the seam open. Be sure the color of the strip complements the coat fabric. Make cuffs or a collar or both, of the same fabric, to match (figure 4). You could also make a hat from this fabric, or cover some new buttons to add a touch of elegance. ZL Remember Grandma Donna Mae Bacon eNDMA was five feet short and w eighed a mite over one hundred pounds. But though small in stature, she was large in heart and soul. Her eyes were the color of the "aii s egg and lay embedded in deep "'life lines," those of smiles and tears. Grandma was not rich by modern standards. Her cupboards were bare of prized china and costly silver. No antique rosewood adorned the sitting room, no ornate "grand"? — the parlor. There was no governess for the children, no maid for the laundry, not even a "hired girl" in the kitchen. Grandma herself was all of these, and her worldly riches lay in her nine bovs and three girls. This "even dozen" and their father made up the whole of a life of eighty-five years! Days were filled with endless rounds of cooking, sewing, and cleaning. The gigantic task of keeping twelve little bodies warm and fed was Grandmother's life's goal. Grandma never traveled abroad; her imagination was the "magic carpet" on which she carried her children to adventure-land. She never attended the opera in formal dress and white gloves. 'The old pump organ, for half a century, kept its honored place in the center of the living room wall, where nightly concerts were presented, with even the littlest ones performing. Grandma had no membership in a weekly club. Quilting bees were held regularly on the porch, and her "works of art'' were the varied and intricate patterns, laid into each quilt cover, which she designed! The library contained no leather-bound first editions, but the Holy Bible, and other scriptures, worn with use, were prominently displaved on the mantel, and among the family records and albums could be found Dickens' Christmas Carol and the Life of Abraham Lincoln. I remember Grandma rocking — rocking in rhythm with the ticking of the oldfashioned wall clock. If one listened carefully, a faint melody which sounded much like a lullaby could be heard. Grandmother loved babies and flowers and was usually nursing both. Her gardens were well-kept, as were her little ones. I remember Granny best when we visited her. After a bountiful supper and home entertainment around the organ, we were scnt upstairs to feather beds, where we immediately sank into dreamland. Grandma loved beauty and goodness and kindness. She loved life! Grandma had so little, and she had so much. She is remembered by many, and among them, by me! A Seather in Her Hat Sylvia Probst Young N Monday morning, right after the stores opened, Karen called me. "Mary," she said, "Chris has some beautiful percale that's going on sale for twenty-nine cents. Why don't you come by and look at it, if you have time today? It would make beautiful quilts and aprons for our bazaar." Karen Haskell is my Work Director Counselor, and, although she clerks at Bowers Mercantile five days a week, she has arranged to have her day off on Tuesday so she can attend Relief Society and _participate in our work. And what a worker Karen is, with a radiance that is contagious. I could have never found better counselors than she and Ruby Stevens. They make being president an easier job than it might otherwise be. From the telephone I turned back to my dusting, thinking of Karen. At thirty-nine she is a widow with five children to support, and with certain financial obligations, because of 'Tom's long illness, that would completely dishearten many of us. But Karen has a way of seeing sunshine through the darkest cloud. "It is my first duty to keep my children happy," she has told me. "IT want them to live as normally as if Tom were still with us. It isn't always easy to put on a bright front, but that's the thing I must do." It's a philosophy that has paid dividends, for Karen's home is a well-ordered place of peace and Page 392 warmth and a deep understanding between her children and herself. Sally, seventeen, the oldest and only daughter, has her mother's charm, but with a quiet reserve, too, such as Tom had. "I don't know how I'd manage without her," Karen has often told me. And it is surprising how well Sally takes over with her four young brothers when Karen isn't there. Right after lunch I drove over to Bowers. Karen was busy with a customer, so I visited with Chris for a few minutes. It's a pleasure to visit with Chris Bowers and as beneficial as a spring tonic. With a good morning smile and a bit of friendliness, he makes everyone feel just right. It was while I was talking to him that the idea came to me, and what a perfectly beautiful idea it was! "What would you think if I stole your best clerk the first week of Apmil and took her down to Conference?" I asked him. He was reflective for a moment. "Well now," he finally said, "I do believe Karen needs a few days off. I get so dependent on her I don't think of it. And since you tell me this far ahead I think I can arrange ie While we were selecting percale I told Karen of my big idea, and she was enthusiastic. "Mary, I'd love it," she exclaimed, ""t's been years since I've been down to Conference." "Then let's really plan to go," I told her. '"'Al won't mind batching A FEATHER IN HER HAT for a few days. I'm sure that Ruby can get away, too, and your boys will be cared for as well as if you were there I'll drive my car; the weather should be pleasant by then."

HE next 'Tuesday was our work meeting. Karen and I went early to put on a quilt. "I hope you're still planning on Conference," I reminded her. "T surely am," she said, "I told my family about it, and you should have heard the plans. The things they want me to bring them," she laughed, "you'd think I was planning a trip to New York." I smiled knowingly, remembering how my children had been. "But speaking of the trip, Mary, why don't you ride over to Maurine's with me when meeting is out. She has the cutest green spring coat in her window, and I've needed a light coat for so long. If it's my size and not too expensive, I'll get her to put it on 'will call' until next payday." Maurine's Shop is a sort of special place, not exclusive, but you can be sure that what you buy there is always good. Maurine has been in the business in our town for at least twenty years—long enough to know almost everybody's size and what would look best on them. "I think that coat is just your size," she told Karen, "Ill get it from the window and we'll see." The coat fit Karen perfectly. "You know this Karen,' Maurine said, "has a figure as nice as her Sally's. Imagine, Mary, that's size ten—what happened to you and me?" In spite of the sales pitch, Maurine was right. Karen did have an 393 enviable figure, and the coat was very becoming on her, especially the color that looked so nice with her coppery hair. And another nice thing was the price—just twenty-five dollars. Karen was very pleased. She gave Maurine fifteen, and promised to get the other ten after her next payday. She wouldn't take the coat in spite of Maurine's wanting her to. "Td rather leave it right here until I have it all paid for." As she walked out of the shop, she turned a smiling face to me. "Funny how something new can give you a lift. I guess it's just what I needed to pick me up." TURING the next two weeks J didn't see Karen except at Relief Society. Alice's baby was sick, and I had her two older children a good part of the time. And on Sunday Karen didn't come to church because her little Johnny had a bad cold. But on Friday night I walked over to Karen's to get some apron patterns, and to take a knitting book that I had promised to lend to her. Knowing how fond her boys are of cookies, I had made a batch of snickerdoodles to take along for them. Warm spring darkness lay softly over the land. Overhead a clouddraped moon looked down, and the air was cool and fresh from the afternoon rain. I walked along with a wonderful sense of well-being, drinking in the beauty of the night. At Karen's house Sally opened the door to me; her eyes were glowing like twin stars. "Hello. Come in. Mama isn't here just now, she just ran over 394 to Mrs. Peters," she explained, "but she should be right back." I handed her the basket. "Some cookies I baked—these hungry boys keep you girls cooking." "Oh, how nice of you. Like cookies. Thanks a lot." "Hey, you boys," she called, going into the kitchen, "look what's for you." "You look like something exciting was about to happen," I told her when she came back. She beamed, "It really has. It's the junior prom, and I have the most wonderful date—Mark Jeppson. You know the Jeppsons, Mary, they moved over on Coolidge Street about a month ago." "Oh, yes," I remembered, "they're in our ward, now. His mother comes to Relief Society." She nodded, "And Mom bought me the most beautiful dress I've ever seen. I'll show you." She came back carefully holding a soft creation of lilac-colored organza and lace stitched with tiny pink rosebuds. It was almost breathtaking—the kind of dress that goes with youth and springtime and laughter. "Isn't it sweet? Mom bought it at Maurine's yesterday. It was a surprise to me. I think I have the most wonderful Mom in the whole world." While we were admiring the dress, Karen came home. We sat down to visit and discuss Relief Society, and before I realized how late it was getting, Mark Jeppson arrived. He was a_ nice-looking, clean-cut young man. I could readily see why Sally was thrilled to go to the junior prom with him. She came out of the bedroom then, and I've never seen a lovelier We all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 young girl. Karen's eyes followed her, and they expressed all her pride and hope and mother love. At the door, just when they were ready to go, Sally turned impulsively, and planted a quick kiss on Karen's cheek. When they were gone Karen turned to me, and her face was radiant. "I think I'm as happy as she is," she sighed. "I was so afraid she might not get asked—she's kind of a shy little thing, and a junior prom when you're a junior is so important." "She looked so sweet, too," I said, "thanks to you." "It is a beautiful dress, isn't it? I've been repaid a hundredfold for getting it." I knew what she meant—"I have the most wonderful Mom," Sally had said—and the quick kiss at the door, were expressions of love that were priceless. We went to Conference the next week. I picked up Karen first because she lives closer to me than Ruby. She came down the walk in her old beige coat. I had guessed that she would be wearing it. As she got into the car, she gave me a knowing smile. "The cleaners did such a good job on it I almost feel as if it's new," she said. "But you have something new," I observed. It was a gay, little natural straw hat, set off by a saucy pink feather. "Oh, the hat—isn't it a dear? Sally bought it with her allowance —a surprise to me. You know," she laughed, "I like a feather in my hat!" "I think you've always worn one," I told her.