Four Great Grandmothers Elize Manegelsen, born March 27, 1846, in Denmark, came to Utah in 1869. Maria C. Bosh, born July 19, 1860, in Denmark, age 60. Anna Peterson, born Jan. 18, 1844, in Denmark, came to Utah about 1860. Mary H. Sherwood, born July 1, 1859, in Omaha. Great Great Grandmother: (seated below baby ) Amelia Bosh, born Dec. 24, 1833, in Ostep, Germany, age 87. You will note that the great-great grandmother was born in 1833, and two of the great-grandmothers in the early 40's, while one great grandmother was born in 1859. The grandmothers are born in 1882 and 1867. All of these women are of sturdy Scandinavian stock, one of the great grandmothers, Mary Hanson Sherwood, having a rather remarkable personal history. She was born in Omaha on the way to Utah, where her mother had lingered to gather means to go into the valley. Her mother was the first woman bap- 6 . Tized in Iceland and was a widow with this child when she reached Utah a year or two later. The widow settled in Spanish Fork, Utah. 'When the girl was fourteen years old, her mother came to Salt Lake City and took a room in the tithing office lodging house, inside the Brigham Young wall which then surrounded the Lion House, and on its southwest corner the old Tithing Office and Deseret News building. She gave the girl into the care and custody of Mrs. Susa Young Gates, when she died, a year later, in the house. Mary lived with Mrs. Gates for four or five years and finally married William Sherwood, by whom she had nine sturdy children. By dint of much toil and sacrifice they secured a farm in Levan, Utah. After many years, having married off their children, they came to Salt Lake and asked their old friend for help, to get a position as care-takers in some home. They se- - cured employment with Mrs. A. W. McCune at her home on the hill as housekeeper and care-takers. In looking over her mother's old papers, Sister Sherwood found a little book which carries her line back twelve hundred years into the Icelandic royal line in a straight unbroken chain. This year Sister Sherwood was assisted by Professor Bjornson, of -the B. Y. College, in Logan, to get this line connected up in its ramifications, through the office of one of the leading Icelandic scholars in his native country. Strange to say, she had just saved sufficient money to pay for this service and happily sent her contribution to complete her wonderful Icelandic royal line. How true it is that the Latter-day Saints are the descendants of the best and noblest stock in the countries from which they came! We are happy to present this picture as