Lesson on Tobacco Evil. Lesson Given by Relief Society—Religious and Honve Training. EXTRA FOR JANUARY. To be used Tuesday, January 18, in the interest of the anti-tobacco campaign. One-half of the regular time should be given to this lesson and the other half to the literary lesson. TOBACCO EVIL. "Little children, let no man deceive you, he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he [God] is righteous." John 3:7. To live righteously means to live with the fear of God in the heart. It is a protection and a guide. Keeping the commandments of God is the way to attain his love and approbation. 1. Education of Parents. A. Faith in the gospel and an understanding of the revelation. Doc. And Cov. 89. B. Knowledge of harmful effects, physically, mentally, morally, and spiritually. 2. Example in the Home. A. Like father, like children. B. Stories—illustrations. 3. Companionship. A. Influence of associates. B. Association with a smoker deadens the finer sensibilities of children. 4. Watchfulness.: a. Early and constant attention to children's tendencies. B. Commendation for obedience. (Prevention is better than cure. ) 5. Power of Habit. A. (See "Acquiring the Habit,' page 180, Tobacco and Human Efficiency, by Professor F. J. Pack.) 6. Parents Should Teach their Children. A. The sacredness of the human body. The Spirit of the ' Lord will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle. (1) The body is the casket of the spirit. (2). A o keep the body fine and beautiful is a religious uty. (3) To obtain the gifts and blessings of the priesthood, live righteously. 44 . B. That the physical body is impaired by the use of tobacco. Poisonous factors of tobacco. General physiological effects of tobacco. See pages 9 and 23, Tobacco and Human Efficiency, F. J. Pack. C. That the moral resistance is weakened, page 220, Tobacco and Human Efficiency. D. That the intellectual powers do not reach their highest development. "Acrolein in the smoke of the cigarette has a violent action on the nerve centers, producing degeneration of the cells of the brain, which is quite rapid among boys. Unlike most narcotics, this degeneration is permanent and uncontrollable. I employ no person who smokes cigarettes." —Thomas A. Edison. "T have seen bright boys turned into dunces, and straightforward, honest boys made into cowards by cigarette smoking." — Dr. A. C. Clinton, physician to several boys' schools. E. Financial waste. F. The comandment of the Lord. (Word of Wisdom, Doctrine and Covenants 89.) Problems and arguments that may be expected in teaching the non-use of tobacco. ANTI-TOBACCO WEEK. Note:—January 16 to 23, has been decided upon as antitobacco week. During this time the Church will concentrate its energies in an anti-tobacco campaign. Throughout the week all ward organizations will feature special programs in their regular - meetings. The Relief Society lesson on tobacco will be given on Tuesday, January 18th. It is suggested that half of the regular time be given to this lesson and the other half to the literary lesson. The detailed procedure for the tabocco campaign will be announced in pamphlet form, by the Social Advisory Committee of the Church. The most exhaustive and accurate source of information on the tobacco question is Dr. Pack's book, Tobacco and Human Efficiency, published by the Church and sold by the Deseret Book Company. It is expected that each ward social committee will secure a copy of this book for ward use. A supplementary source of information and argument is the weekly article appearing each Saturday in the Deseret News, on some phase of the tobacco question. See also Dr. Pack's article in the Improvement Era, for January.