Guide Lessons for February. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First WEEK IN FEBRUARY. SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD. Two sets of lessons are herein given so that class leaders will have ample time for preparation. PERSONALITY OF GOD. The second startling revelation received by the Proplici Joseph Smith in the grove, one hundred years ago, was that God, our Father, is a person, distinct and separated in actual bodily form from his Son, Jesus the Christ. Both stood before the rapt gaze of the youthful seer and both spoke to him. No matter what persecution followed, the prophet maintained the simple testimony of this vision until his death, giving his life to establish its truth. The Christian world, generally speaking, believed and still believes in a God who is invisible and impersonal. According to the old sectarian phraseology he is 'a body without parts and passions, who sits upon the top of a topless throne and whose center is everywhere and circumerence nowhere." A famous modern Episcopalian preacher when asked for a definition of God is reported to have answered that God is a principle; again pressed to define what he meant by a principle, he replied that "two and two make four—that is a principle." Let us examine some of the printed creeds of the modern world, old and new, on this point. The ancient Hebrews, according to a very modern authority believed: "The unique characteristic of the God of the ancient Hebrews is his intense personality." Page 83 of Religions of the Past and Present. "This characteristic of personality appears peculiarly in his relation to his people. He is first of all a tribal God, of that I have no question. His full name is "Yahwe of Hosts, the God of Israel." This particularism, which offends our modern cosmopolitanism, is an expression of his essential personality. It is a limitation, we say, on the pure idea of God, but a limitation which is necessary to the idea of the personal. For it is of the essence of personality that it is independent of other personalities, independent and self-existent, and can only come into contact with other persons through acts of the will and of desire, It is a mistake to try to push the loftiest of the prophets to a more abstract idea of his person. Amos, who states Yahwe's control of the world as strongly as any, and perhaps more clearly, (e. G., cc. 1-2; 9:7) nevertheless holds to the divine particularism. Page 84 of Religions of the Past and Present. The modern Jew, at least the American Jew, seems in many 46 . Instances to have succumbed to popular religious influences. We are told by Dr. K. Kohler: "No mortal being knows what God is, He can not be seen, nor comprehended by the human mind. Neither can he be found in any part of the world, because he is the cause of all existence and the source of all intellect, and, therefore, above and beyond them all. But reason, conscience and history alike declare that he is. He is the absolute being "God is One. There is no other god besides him, nor is thefe any that can be compared to him or that shares in his divinity, He is not composed of parts or of Persons, He is an absolute Unity. "He is a spiritual being, the Spirit of all existence, permeating all and everything. He is incorporeal, He has not the limitations of a body." Guide for Instructions in Judaism, The third article of the Creed of Judaism found in the same book reads: "I firmly believe that the Creator, blessed be his name, is not a body, and no corporeal relations apply to him, and that there exists nothing that has any similarity to him.": And now what do the orthodox Christian sects accept as the standard belief on this point? We quote from the thirtynine Articles of Faith: "There is but one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts, or passions; of infinite Power, wisdom, and goodness; the Maker and Preserver of all things both visible and invisible. And in unity of this Godhead there be three persons, of one substance, power, and eternity: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost." Modern sects have epitomized these thirty-nine articles into a dozen articles and the following expresses the universal modern belief: we read in The Shorter Catechism, page 3 and 4: Q. What is God? ": A. "God is a Spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, in his being wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness and truth." - Are there more Gods than one? A. "There is but one only, the living and true God." Q. How many persons are there in the Godhead? A. "There are three persons in the Godhead 3 the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and these three are one God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory." The effort to Spiritualize and disincorporate the old Hebrew idea of the Personality of God the Father, arises from the admission which would follow the acceptance of a personal Father and a personal Son. Two Gods these are, and yet the Christian world for centuries has felt the necessity of getting away from the Pagan ideas of numerous gods. The Hebrews were Monotheists, the Pagans were Polytheists, The Prophet Joseph had no theories to defend, no excuses to offer. He had seen the Father and the Son, and he could GUIDE LESSONS. — 47 not deny that truth and be found blameless before high heaven. As the Christians accept the Old and New Testaments as their sole revelation, authority and guide to belief and creed, it should be possible for them to successfully explain the passages from the Bible quoted in the "Mormon" Compendium, on pages 184 to 193; for instance: Genesis: 1:25-27, "man created in the image of God;" 3:9-10, "Adam heard the voice of the Lord;" 4:6, "the Lord said unto Cain." 14; 5:1-2, "Lord created man, male and female, in his own likeness;" 13:21, "God talked with Noah." Also 7:1-4; 9:8; 11:5, "the Lord came down to see the city and the tower;" 12:7, "the Lord appeared to Abraham." 17:22; 18, "the Lord ate and talked with Abraham;" 28: 13, "the Lord stood above the ladder -Jacob saw;" 32:30, "Jacob saw God face to face." 35:13. Exodus: 3:6, "Moses was afraid to look on God;" 31:18, "the tables of testimony, written with the finger of God;" 33:11, "the Lord talked with Moses as one man speaks with a friend a 23, "thou shalt see my back parts, but not my face." Numbers: 12:8, "with him will I speak, mouth to mouth." Zechariah: 14:4, "and his feet shall stand upon the Mount of Olives." Revelation: 1:14, "his head and his hair like wool, and his eyes like fire." Eyery truth, fact and tradition of religion points to the dual personality of the Father and the Son. The Jews alone have some justification in their monotheistic attitude. To them Yaweh is their one and only God. Yet even they have now spiritualized him. The Latter-day Saints alone possess the whole truth on this vital principle of faith. The final proof of the personality of God is the appearance of both the Father and the Son to the prophet in the grove at Palmyra. Thousands have received the testimony of this vision as testified to by the prophet. Who can disprove it? QUESTIONS. 1. What is the idea of the Christian world about our heavenly Father? 2. Quote the first of the 39 Articles of Faith. 3. What authority have we for belief in a personal God? 4. Read the article on the true and living God from the Compendium. 5. What can you say of the differences in belief between our Church and Christian churches generally? 6. What church did your parents come out of? 7. What is your idea of the personality of God, the ['ather, and his Son, Jesus Christ? 8. How did you obtain that idea or testimony? 48 . LESSON II. Work and Business. SEOND WEEK IN FEBRUARY. LESSON IIL. Literature. TuHirp WEEK IN. FEBRUARY. LATTER-DAY SAINTS' HYMNS. THE SPIRIT OF GOD LIKE A FIRE IS BURNING. This hymn has grown to be the medium of expression of the soul of the people of the Church. It was written by W. W. Phelps, in Kirtland, Ohio. It was composed for the dedicatory service of the Kirtland temple. This hymn is distinguished in two ways, first, it was written for the dedication service of the first temple erected and, second, it is the first hymn composed to be used at the dedication of a temple in the latter days. The story goes that the Prophet Joseph Smith went into the printing office where W. W. Phelps was at work. On seeing him come in, Elder Phelps presented the poem. The prophet expressed great delight with the hymn. It was later printed on pieces of white satin in which form it was used at the dedicatory service. Immediately following the prayer of dedication, which was given through revelation, this song was sung. We can scarcely conceive of a hymn being sung under more propitious circumstances, certainly its setting was little short of ideal. In the course of our lesson, we shall seek to show that the hymn was in spirit and in substance well suited to the occasion, thus making of it an "occasional" or specialized hymn of the very first order. From this introduction we proceed to a study of the first stanza, and here we wish to say that the unit of composition which is generally called the paragraph, in prose, is known as the stanza in poetry, and that a verse, technically speaking, is a line of poetry: i "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning; The latter-day glory begins to come forth; The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth." "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning!" In the early Christian Era there were those who, feeling the warmth of the Spirit of God, referred to it as a burning within, so that W. W. GUIDE LESSONS.. Phelps' figure has a double power, first that it is apt, and second, that it suggests a beautiful incident in the life of the Savior. Passing to the second verse or line of the hymn, "The latter-day glory begins to come forth;"' we are confronted with the fact that it takes many words to describe what glory is; indeed. It is doubtful if the: word really admits of description. At any rate, it appears to be the blending of the desirable and admirable, and is born of a most exultant and hopeful mood. The third line, ''The visions and blessings of old are returning," is a very fine example of the quality of suggestiveness in literature. Let us pause and' consider how it draws on the knowledge and imagination of the past, as we recreate all of the wonderful visions and blessings of olden times. It is certainly not surprising that literary critics insist on suggestiveness as a prime quality in literature. The fouth line, "The angels are coming to visit the earth," calls to mind all of the visitations of holy angels since that first prayer in the woods, when the Father and the Son came in response to Joseph's petition., Each stanza is followed by. A chorus truly wonderful in qualily: "We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Hosanna, hosanna, to God and the Lamb. Let glory to them in the highest be given, Henceforth and forever; amen and amen." This chorus is of the very essence of the occasion.' In supreme joy at the completion of the holy house, those of earth desire to mingle their song of praise with those of heaven. Then follows the shout of 'Hosanna, hosanna, to God and the Lamb." No other words in the language so fully indicate the dedication of a temple to the Most High as these words, in fact hosanna is almost certain to call to the mind of a Latter-day Saint the thrilling experience of the hosanna shout as given at the dedication of our temples. In view of this fact the use of the expression, "Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb," is most happy. The second stanza reads: "The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding, Restoring their judges and all as at first, The knowledge and power of God are expanding, The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst." This. Stanza does not contain any heightened literary ex- 50 . Pression, its value lies in the fact that it recounts some of the things that are making for the redemption of mankind and for the glory of God on earth. "The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding," a line indicating that the power of the Saints to comprehend truth is being enlarged. ''Restoring their judges and all as at first," a repetition of the thought that the gospel in its purity is being restored. "The knowledge and power of God are expanding," a condensed line, always permissible in poetry if it preserves the meter, or music of the verses. The thought seems to be that constantly the Saints are adding to their information concerning God and his almighty power. "The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst.'" This line forms the climax of this stanza. The climax is the point of greatest exultation, perhaps, in a hymn such as we are considering. Welden Phelps reaches a climax in each of his stanzas. To turn to the line on its content side: "The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst," a most fortunate touch of imagery for surely the vail did burst at the dedication of the Kirtland temple, and surely it has grown transparent at the dedication of succeeding temples, until there are many among the Latter-day Saints who have seen holy angels in the temples of cur God. The third stanza is not frequently sung by the Latter-day Saints, it reads: "We'll call in our solemn assemblies in Spirit, To spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad, That we through our faith may begin to inherit, The visions and blessings and glory of God." This stanza may be discussed as a unit. It suggests in the first place the solemn assembly of the priesthood, gathered together on special occasions. Then attention is called to the fact that one of the solemn obligations of the Church is to spread the gospel. Then follows the intimation that our blessings are predicated on our faith, if we would inherit the visions and blessings of God. Approaching the fourth stanza we read: "We'll wash and be washed and with oil be anointed, Withal not omitting the washing of feet; For he that receiveth his penny appointed, Must surely be clean at the harvest of wheat." This stanza has in mind temple ordinances, and is therefore appropriate for a dedication hymn. It, too, is full of the quality of suggestiveness, bringing to our minds the instance of washing GUIDE LESSONS.: 51 of feet to be found in the scripture, also the parable of those who agreed on a penny for their compensation, The fifth stanza speaks of: "Old Israel that fled from the world for his freedom, Must come with the cloud and the pillar amain, A Moses and Aaron and Joshua lead him, And feed him on manna from heaven again." An analogy between the way God gathered ancient Israel to the land of promise and the way he is gathering modern Israel, that Zion might be built and become the abode of the just. A fitting analogy is very effective as a literary device. "How blessed the day when the lamb and the lion Shall lie down together without any ire, And Ephraim be crowned with his blessing in Zion, As Jesus descends with his chariot of fire." It is noted that a climax is frequently reached in the last line of the stanza. The last stanza of the hymn forms the climax: of the hymn. In this stanza the Millennium is forshadowed, and the imagination goes forward and backward. Backward to the wonderful allusions made to the Jewish scripture, and forward to that time, blessed indeed, when Jesus shall come to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. In conclusion we would draw attention to the comprehensiveness of the hymn, for the poet has covered time from the first vision to the great consummation to be brought about by the Prince of Peace. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS, 1. Technically speaking, what name do we give to a line in poetry? What name do we give to a group of lines? 2. Go to your hymn book and learn how many hymns W. W. Phelps has contributed to Latter-day Saint hymnology. 3. Give your own definition of an occasional poem or an occasional hymn. 4. Would you expect the dedication of a temple to inspire one gifted as a writer of song to write a dedication hymn? If so, why? 5. Relate the incident of the disciples of Christ saying, "Did not our bosom burn within us?" 6. Which three stanzas of the hymn are familiar to the Latter-day Saints, and which three are seldom heard in the congregations of the Saints? ay bo . 7. Relate the story of Christ washing the feet of his disciples. 8. Trace the analogy suggested in the fifth stanza between the gathering and leadership of ancient Israel to their Land of Promise, and the gathering and leadership of modern Israel as they journeyed towards their promised land. 9. God fed ancient Israel. With manna, with what did he feed modern Israel in the hour of its need. 10. What features of this hymn mark it as specially suitable to be used at the dedicatory service of a temple? LESSON IV. Social Service. FourtTH WEEK IN FEBRUARY. MUNCIPAL GOVERNMENT. NATURE, FORMS AND FUNCTIONS OF MUNCIPAL GOVERNMENT. NATURE. Sovereign power over local affairs belongs to the state except as it may have been delegated to Federal Government. The powers of local government, exercised by cities and towns, is delegated authority from the state. In Utah most of this delegated authority and especially the determination of the forms and functions of city government is granted by the state legislature. In some states this grant of authority is made in the state constitution. The purpose of Amendment No. 1 in the last Utah state election was to give home rule to cities independent of action by the state legislature. This amendment failed. FORMS. Until recent years the most common form of city government in Utah was the mayor and council plan. Some years ago the law was so changed as to provide for the commission form of government for cities of the first and the second class; first class cities must have a population over 50,000 and second class, over 5,000. The law provides for five commissioners for cities of the first class and three commissioners for cities of the second class. The mayor and council form of government is retained for cities of the third class; the law provides for five councilors elected at large. In cities of the first and second class there are also boards of education to manage the schools. GUIDE LESSONS. The city manager plan is being tired out in some cities under direction of a mayor and council. This plan provides for the employment of a competent man to take charge of the city's business, as a private corporation employs a manager to take care of its business. In some states this plan of management is provided for by law. The idea behind these changes in the form of city government is to remove the management of the city's affairs as far as possible from partisan politics, and to put it on a business basis, after the fashion of the business of a private corporation managed by a Board of Directors. The government of a town in Utah remains under the direction of a board of five trustees, who usually serve without pay or for a nominal salary. FUNCTIONS. In general the function of city government is to manage the local affairs; such as, public safety, including police, fire, and health protection; public affairs and finance, including a legal department, civil and criminal courts, licenses, and all matters pertaining to finance; a water department, which may include management of irrigation as well as culinary water; a street department, including construction, repair, cleaning and sprinkling of streets; a park and public property department, including management of all parks and play grounds belonging to the city, except school grounds. Many minor functions such as management of a city cemetery, public bath house, estray pound, and offices of various inspectors may be assigned to one or another of these departments as a matter of convenience or to equalize responsibility between commissioners. In cities of the second class the responsibilties are divided between the three commissioners on the same general principles. In cities of the third class and in towns the busines is handled by the council or board acting, as a rule, through small committees. Where a public Library is maintained it is managed by a Library board appointed by the general city government. School Boards are, however, independently elected and are responsible directly to the people. In Utah the schools of cities of the third class and of towns are part of a larger unit, the consolidated school district. A city may own and operate public utilities. In case of streets, and sidewalks, public ownership is very evidently a necessity. It is almost so in case of a water system and a sewage system. Electric lighting plants and gas plants are frequently owned and operated, as are occasionally street railway systems. In any case the city in some measure regulates public utilities, 54 . Except as these utilities may be regulated directly by the state; that is, the state as a rule either regulates these matters by its own commission or delegates power to municipal corporations. It is now a well established principle that public utilities not owned by the public must be subject to public regulation, Each citizen of a community must be protected in his life, health, liberty and property. As a domestic problem this protection can be given best by local government. Furthermore, the social and business life of people who dwell in cities is so intermingled that a great deal of positive regulation is necessary: first to avoid conflicts; and second, to secure cooperative action in carrying forward the community business. Also to regulate community recreation—theatres, dance halls and all other places of public entertainment. This regulation can be made effective generally only through government. Local government is best adapted to this purpose. QUESTIONS. 1. From what source does a city or town derive its governmental powers? 2. In what ways may this power be delegated? 3. What advantage is claimed for the commission over the mayor and council form of government? 4. What service may the police give other than detecting and arresting criminals? 5. Why is it necessary to maintain a city health department? 6. What are the advantages of a city's owning its water supply and water works? 7. Would there be advantages in having public utilities either owned or regulated by government? 8. Why is it best to have local affairs regulated by local government? REFERENCES. Constitution and laws of your own state. Ordinances of your own city. (Copies of these ordinances may be obtained by applying at the City Hall.) Munro—Government of American Cities—The MacMillan Co. (This book may be obtained in public and school libraries.) '