VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young left the city by the D.
and R. G. train, October 18th, for the South
and arrived at Price at 6 p.m., where Bishop
Frantzen met her at the depot, and at 7 o'clock the
same evening she attended a meeting of the Re-
lief Society in the ward meeting house.  The
house was well filled.
	The next morning drove over to Huntington,
and journeyed on to Ferron, where a meeting of the 
sisters was held, and the Y. L. M. I. A. was reor-
ganized.
	On the morning of the 20th the conference of 
the Relief Society was held at Ferron, Mrs. Annie
U. Larsen, President of Emery Stake R. S., presid-
ing.  We will probably receive the minutes of the
conference from the Secretary.  On the 21st inst,
at 10 a. m., the Y. L. conference. and at 3 p. m. the
Primary conference was held, and in connection
with it a Fair, the articles mostly made by the
children, though the young ladies had contributed
some.  There were some nice hair flowers,	
crochet-work, perforated card work, pincushions
and other fancy work, besides handsome patch-
work quilts, and several kinds of vegetables raised 
by the little boys.   The next meeting was at
Muddy, at 7 o'clock p.m, and Sisters Young and
Larsen assisted the brethren in reorganizing the 
Relief Society at that place.
	Went to Molen next day, where meeting was
held at one o'clock.   A very full meeting and a


small Primary Fair, with a creditable display from
the children.
	Meeting was held the same evening at Orange-
ville, and Sisters Young and Larsen assisted the
Bishop in reorganizing the Young Ladies’ Asso-
ciation.	
	At Huntington Sister Young spent the 23rd.
Visited the Sabbath School and spoke to the
children. At seven o’clock the same evening the
Relief Society held a meeting. Sister Young
found at Huntington Sister Lucy Morley Allen,
the daughter of Patriarch Isaac Morley; she was
baptized November, 1830, on the same day as
Sister Stanton, who died recently.
	On Monday, the 24th, Sister Young and six of
the sisters who had been visiting the Stake in
company with her, accompanied her as far as
Price. Sister Young was reliably informed that
in all Emery Stake there was but one saloon, and
that was at the railroad station at Price, and yet
there are in that county something over 26,000 in-
habitants.
	During her visit, Sister Young met with a num-
ber of old acquaintances, and some who were sisk
and afflicted, and sought to administer comfort
and consolation. On the 25th, Stster Young
turned her face homeward, bidding good-bye to
the good sisters and people of Emery Co. She
stopped a day or two at Springville, then to
Provo, where she had the pleasure of attending
the lecture of Elder John Nicholson to the youth
of Zion. She speaks highly of the lecture, and
believes it will do great good to the young people.


