			SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 20th, 1887.
To the Presidents of Stakes, Bishops, and the
	Saints generally:

	It is with profound feelings of gratitude and
thanksgiving to our heavenly Father that we an-
nounce to the Latter-day Saints that the Temple
which is being erected at Manti has been so nearly
completed as to be ready for the upholstering, fur-
niture, carpets, etc., which are necessary to put it
in a state of complete preparation for the sacred
labors to be performed therein. This is the third
building of this character which in the kind pro-
vidence of God the Latter-day Saints have been
permitted to erect and finish in these mountains.
The Temple at Salt Lake City is also progressing
in a satisfactory manner, which, when finished,
will be the fourth Temple that has been constructed
by the Saints under the direction of the Almighty
since we came to these valleys.
	How blessed are the people who have had these
glorious privileges granted unto them! Our hearts
swell with inexpressible feelings of thanksgiving
and joy to our Father in heaven that He has per-
mitted His Saints to build these houses. They
now have opportunities to act as Saviors of their
fellowmen, which but few generations of the
children of men have ever enjoyed. The great
work of the restoration of the dead, which will
occupy the time and thought of future generations,
has now begun, never more to end until the earth
is sanctified and the plan of salvation devised in
the eternal worlds for human redemption is fully
consummated. 	
	Our object in addressing you in this circular is
to present to all the members of the Church the
opportunity of contributing, according to their
means and liberality, something towards the fur-
nishing of the Manti Temple. Heretofore the
contributions for that building have been confined
to the Stakes which are numbered in what is
known as  the Manti Temple District.” Before
the Logan Temple was completed an opportunity
was given to the Saints to contribute towards the
purchasing of its furnishings, furniture, etc. They
gladly responded to the call which was made upon
them. We feel that they will, on the present oc-
casion, appreciate the privilege of contributing in
like manner towards the purchasing of suitable
upholstery, carpetings, etc., for the Manti Temple.
The funds of the Superintendent are exhausted,
and contracts are already made for needed articles,
which have to be met at an early date.
	Contributions will  be taken from twenty five
cents upwards, so that those who are the most
limited in means need not be debarred, while those
who are more wealthy, can have the satisfaction
and pleasure of making donations according to
their ability for the completion of this noble edifice.
We would like the Presidents and Bishops to give

[column 2]
﻿every one an opportunity of doing something in
this direction, and the names of all, with the
amounts contributed, should be carefully taken.
	We would like to see the names of every man
woman and child in the Church recorded in the
Archives of the Temple as having contributed
something towards its erection and completion.
	These funds with the donors’ names, can either
be forwarded to the office of the Presiding Bishop
or the Chief Clerk—Brother James Jack, at the
President’s Office.
	It is important that these collections should be
made and remitted as promptly as possible, as the
need for this means is pressing.
					WlLFORD WOODRUFF,
	In behalf of the Council of the Apostles.


