EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
 
	The case now awaiting the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the Territory as to the right of
the United States’ government to appoint a Re-
ceiver to take charge and dispose of property 
belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, is one which every thoughtful person
must consider an important matter.  It would
seem that either "Mormons" have no rights, or
that this suit must seriously affect other churches 
as regards property investments.  If this law is to 
be applied to other religious denominations, then
Congress will have work on hand for the future—
home-rule work that will require the utmost wisdom
to adjust, and that never can be done amicably
unless the religious bodies become devoid of both
conscience and rights.  To intefere with property 
which has been a free-offering from the people to
the Lord, for the establishing of His work upon
the earth, the building of temples and houses of
worship, where the Latter-day Saints might wor-
ship God according to their own belief, must have
the appearance of a gross injustice, to all who are
able to see and comprehend the circumstances and
conditions.
	The working classes, in all good faith, and with
the zeal that must be apparent to even the ordin-
ary observer, have contributed to this means, that
Congress holds should be put into the hands of a 
receiver appointed by the government for that
purpose.  And why?  Is it unlawful to build tem-
ples,to observe and perform religious rites and cere-
monies in, and in which this people have implicit 
confidence as binding upon them, and necessary 
for their salvation and that of the whole human 
family?  The whole force of the bill passed by
Congress is said to be directed against polygamy
and its practice, and what has that to do with
Church property?  If the men who are so anxious 
to appoint a Receiver, which means to take pos-
session of the property, had worked as diligently
and faithfully as the "Mormons" have to acquire 
it in the midst of a desert, away from the civiliza-
tion of which they boast so much,if they had sub-
dued the land and made it fertile by digging
ditches, canals, and applying every means in their
power to produce such things as would sustain life,
without money to use for such purposes, only hard
work of hand and brain, doubtless they would feel
it was an out and out robbery.
	To take men from their homes, adjudge them
guilty of a crime, because the Law made on pur-
pose has so pronounced it and imprison them, so
that the family is deprived of the regular means
of support, and then fine them heavily as well,
this has been submitted to and borne with the
greatest fortitude, but that is not enough for these
officers of this great and grand government, of 
which the people of the United States have been 
so proud these many years.  O, no, now they want
the means that has been accumulating towards the
work of the Lord, the building of Temples for the
sacred ordinances, and they do it with impunity.
Well may it be said, "Where has freedom, where


has justice fled?” Well may the question be
asked and repeated, “Have the Mormons any
rights at all?” As human beings, as a religious
body of worshiping Christians, as citizens of the
Great Republic, they certainly have; and bye and
by it will be seen, and not long first, either, that
they are as loyal to the government as any other
people, if not more so, and that they honor the
Constitution and the principles of truth and liberty,
and are not afraid or ashamed to defend them.


