		HER ILLNESS AND DEATH.
	I learned concerning the circumstances of
her death that Dr Phillips, of Bromley—a
village adjacent to Shortlands, where she lived,
had been in attendance upon Mrs. Craik for
sometime, although her health had not been So
bad as to occasion serious concern to her
friends.
	But there is reason to believe that she her-
self suspected an affection of the heart. About
a quarter to five on Wednesday afternoon last
she was taken suddenly ill in her bedroom and
fell down, to die in a few minutes.
		THE VICAR’S TRIBUTE.
	The vicar, in a brief address, seems to have
well summed up Mrs. Craik’s mental character-
istics when he said:
	“To exquisite charm of style, ingenuity of
plot and original power of humor and pathos
she added a keen insight into the workings of
the human heart aud a quick conception of
high ideas of life and duty.”—Cablegram to the
New York Herald.


Signora Crispi, the wife of the Italian
Minister, is much interested in the education
of her countrywomen. Fully understanding
how useful a friendly intercourse with foreign
ladies would be, she means to establish in Rome
an international Ladies' Club, where women of
all nations can meet. A reading room will be
open and lectures given, and discussions may
be held of the means to establish industrial
schools for women and technical instruction.

	Jennv Lind lives in London in a house
covered with vines and surround-
ed by trees and flowers. She is a confirmed in-
valid, and very rarely sees callers. To all
Americans who knock at her door to pay their
respects, the servant, who has lived with her
for the past thirty years, delivers the message
that "Jenny Lind wishes them to say that she
will never cease to love the American people
with all her heart." She has just had a stroke
of general paralysis, which, however, has left
her brain unimpaired.

	Miss Phebe Couzins has taken the usual oath
of office, and is regularly installed as city mar-
shall of St Louis. She found no difficulty in
obtaining bondsmen for $20,000. The back sal-
ary due her father, of $2,500, has been paid to her.
Miss Couzins has the distinction of being the
first woman to hold this office. It is reported
that Miss Couzins said to President Hayes, just
after his inauguration that it was a pity some
woman lawyer like herself was not the chief
justice who administered the oath to the Presi-
dent. "In that case," gallantly replied "Mr.
Hayes,"I should have kissed, not the book, but
the chief justice."


