		JUAB STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Juab
Stake of Zion was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, on Friday, Sept. 23rd, 1887, Sister
Mary Pitchforth presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. Con-
tinued with singing by the choir, followed by
the reading of the minutes of the previous
conference by Coun. Amy L. Bigler, the Secre-
tary being necessarily absent, also reading of
reports from the several branches. 
	Prest. Pitchforth made appropriate opening
remarks; rejoiced to see the faces of the sisters
present, but hoped there would be a better
attendance in the afternoon. Exhorted all to
put their trust in God; mentioned that Sisters
E. B. Wells and E. S. Taylor were present 
from Salt Lake City.
	Sister Rebecca Udall reported the Nephi
branch of the Relief Society; said they had a
faithful company of teachers; thanked the
brethren and sisters for the liberal donations,
which supplied the wants of the needy; made
some explanations in regard to the property
reported, and very good remarks in reference
to duties and blessings.
	Coun. Maranda Bryan exhorted the sisters
to faithfulness, and to strive to build each
other up, and not bear malice towards any one.
"We have every encouragement to press for-
ward and do right. I always love to meet
with my sisters and look upon their beautiful
faces they always look beautiful to me, and I
feel it will be a great joy for us to meet with
each other in the next world." Hoped all
would be willing to perform their duties at all
times, and asked God to bless each and every
one. 
	The hymn, "The Kingdom of God," was
sung by Sister Grace, who has long been known
as one of the sweet singers in Israel.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. B. Wells them addressed the meet-
ing upon the subjects of faith and integrity,
and urged upon the sisters the need of study,
and applying the truths learned and the truths
revealed through the servants of God, in their
lives, and that they might comprehend for
themselves and be able to impart and explain
the principles of our faith to our children, to
our families, and to those who visit us from
time to time, that we might show to the world
we were not the degraded, and down-trodden
women we were represented to be by our
enemies. Spoke of the many blessings enjoyed
by the women of Zion as compared with the
women of the world; referred to the interpreta-
tion of the Edmunds Tucker law by the judges
and the courts here, and the cruelty it inflicted
upon men, women and children, in imprison-
ment and the breaking up of sacred homes and
family ties. Gave a brief account of the case
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, as argued before the
Supreme Court of the United States, and her
ideas in reference to the decision given after the
hearing. Alluded to the franchise and the un-
just way in which it had been taken, but be-
lieved we should acknowledge the hand of God
even in this. Exhorted the sisters to let no
opportunity pass where they could be the
means of doing good, and prayed we might
have wisdom to guide us in all things.
	Sister Aggard, President of the Levan branch
of the Relief Society, gave a good report of its
condition, and thought the majority of the sis-
ters there were striving to do their duty and
live their religion. Prayed that we might have
wisdom to guide us to do right at all times.
	Singing, "On the mountain tops appearing,"
etc. Benediction by Bro. Knight.

	Afternoon session; Quite a large congrega-
tion were present, Prest. Pitchforth conducting
the meeting. After the usual exercises of
singing, prayer was offered by Patriarch J. 
G. Bigler. Singing by the choir, followed by
Sister Tyndall, who reported the Mona branch
as in a flourishing condition. Said the Presi-
dent, Sister Eliza Somerville, was not able to
attend the conference.
	Sister E. S. Taylor addressed the meeting.
Said there were many who had had a greater
experience than she had, but thought we all
had a history of our own, and we must work
out our own salvation, and she was glad that
we must, because no one could take our glory
from us. "We must all work, and the place
to work is in our societies. It is natural for
women to be sympathetic and look after the
needy and help those who are not as well situ-
ated as they are. I believe every woman who
is in good standing in the Church should be a
member of the Relief Society, because it is a
place to improve; plead with all who are not
identified with the Society to come and be one
with us, and not put it off." Did not think a
man upon a foreign mission had a greater re-
sponsibility resting upon him than a wife or
mother "God expects us to render unto Him
an account of how we have trained those im-
mortal souls He has entrusted to our care. Are
your children in the Sabbath School, in the
Primary, or where are they, in the day school?
It is a crying shame in Zion, that our children
are sent to schools where they are taught that
our leaders are the great false prophets of the
last days." Spoke at some length upon the
rearing of our children, and allowing them to
drift away from the principles of the Gospel;
said there is much required of us as mothers,
sisters or friends. Spoke against fault-finding
with the authorities, and upon celestial marriage,
that it was a correct principle, and no one
could speak against it and have a good spirit.
Exhorted mothers to be kind to their sons and
daughters, and thereby draw them near to
them. "The times of trial through which we
are passing are not pleasant, but it is what
purifies us and makes us fit for the Master's

[Column 3]
use." Prayed God to bless us and fit us for
every duty.
	Sister Jane Andrews sung most beautifully
the exquisite piece; beginning, "Fading away
like the stars of the morning."
	Sister M. A. Taylor, Prest. of Juab branch
R. S. made some good remarks, and reported
that they had no poor in their ward, but the
sisters were doing all they could for the Tem-
ple. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the many duties
devolving upon us in this dispensation, and 
the little time we have to accomplish the great
work; much was required, and we would have
strength given us equal to our day and its bur-
dens. "We should help each other, and con-
sider other's rights as sacred and as much to
be respected as our own. Put away selfishness
and the love of pleasure, and cultivate all the
higher qualities of heart and mind; make our
homes the most attractive places in the world
for our children and those we love. Every
principle of truth, virtue and holiness belongs
to the Gospel. Some homes have been broken
up, and it has caused sorrow and trouble; some
of our sisters are exiles because of having
obeyed a higher law, and they need our sym-
pathy, and a little help from those who are
able to give, and we shall be blest in giving.
There has been very liberal donatians in this
Stake, and it would prove a blessing to the
giver as well as the receiver." Touched upon
other subjects of interest.
	Prest. Pitchforth felt it had been a time of
refreshing to all that had attended the confer-
ence, and expressed the pleasure she felt in
performing her duties and labors for the good 
of her sisters, and in visiting the several
branches she felt blest; spoke of the duties and
responsibilities devolving upon the Relief So-
ciety, and encouraged the sisters in a very
happy manner to press forward in their labors;
advised them to store up grain, and to be kind,
gentle, amiable and polite to all, and seek to
put into practice the good instructions they
had heard during the conference. Asked God
to bless them and give them His Holy Spirit
at all times.
	The officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were then presented, and sustained unani-
mously; also the officers of the several branches
in the stake.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing by the choir, a piece to the memory of
President Taylor, entitled, "Gone to His Rest."
Benediction by Elder L. A. Bailey.

