HE ONLY SLEEPS.

				"God keeps a niche
		In heaven to hold our idols; and albeit
		He brake them to our faces, and denied
		That our close kisses should impair their white.
		I know we shall behold them raised complete,
		The dust swept from their beauty,—glorified."

	The little golden head with its fair brow, the
spiritual, refined face, the tender blue eyes, the
perfect form of our little Percival, these lie in the
tomb, but the sweet spirit that animated the fea-
tures, the intelligence that beamed from his coun-
tenance, the affection that made him so dear, so
tenderly beloved, these are living still in realms of
brightness and glory, where there is no more
sorrow, nor pain, nor death, and all tears are wiped
away.  Dear little Percival, his face all sunshine,
glowing with health, was cut down like a flower;
just when the early frost was nipping the tenderest
buds of the garden, this little fellow, so carefully
nurtured and watched, was cut off by the Reaper
Death almost without warning; taken from his
earthly home, where he was the pride and joy, and
transplanted to a higher and better one.

	"Eye hath not seen it, my gentle boy?
	Ear hath not heard its deep songs of joy;
	Dreams cannot picture a world so fair—
	Sorrow and death cannot enter there;
	Time doth not breathe on its fadeless bloom,
	For beyond the clouds and beyond the tomb,—
				It is there, it is there, my child."

	The death of Percival Woods falls very heavily 
upon his parents, as he was the only remaining
son, and a remarkably bright boy, gifted in many
respects beyond his years, exceptionally affection-
ate and tender-hearted, and the life of the house-
hold, just like a beam of golden sunshine.  He
was taken with sore throat Sunday evening, the
16th, and Monday morning it was pronounced to
be diphtheria; hopes, however, were entertained
of his recovery, but on Thursday membranous
croup set in, and he died at half-past two p.m.
His father, Major W. W. Woods was in Idaho on
business, and though he was telegraphed for as 
soon as danger was apprehended, did not arrive
until Saturday evening, in consequence of the
distance from telegraph lines and railroads.
	Percival Woods was the son of Major W. W.
and Mrs. M. C. Woods, and was born in this city,
April 23rd, 1878, and died October 20th, 1887,
aged nine years, five months and twenty-seven
days. The most intense symyathy was manifested
by the relatives and friends of the family, and 
floral offerings in almost every design were sent
to the house during the interval between the death
and burial.  The remains were taken from the
house shortly after the death, and the casket and
box carefully closed were placed in a vault await-
ing the coming of the father.  The arrival of the
father to his lonely home on Saturday night was
the occasion of a scene of sorrow too deep for any
words to portray.  The mother bore up bravely 
during all this severe strain upon her, though for
months she had been suffering from a spinal affec-
tion, caused by an accident last April.
	The funeral services were held at the City
Cemetery, on Sunday morning, October 23rd, at 
nine o'clock a.m. A large number of relatives
and friends assembled at the graveyard, most of
them remaining in their carriages during the ser-
vices. The coffin, covered with the most exquisite


flowers, was lowered into the new-made grave be-
side the little sister and brother who had gone
before, and the singers, Prof. Beesley, Judge Geo
D. Pyper, Miss Thomas and Miss Beesley, sung
in pathetic voice the beautiful hymn,
			“Rest on the hillside, rest."
	The Rev. Mr. Thrall read from the New Testa-
ment some of the choicest selections of the words
of our Savior, and made brief comments, after
which Bishop Whitney (who is a relative of the
bereaved mother) spoke for a short time. Coun-
selor D. H. Wells dedicated the grave, and offered
a solemn and touching prayer. Mr. Thrall made
brief closing remarks, and earth was heaped upon
the little one laid away, but as the pillow of
flowers which lies at his head says, “He only
sleeps,” for the sorrowing father and mother there
is consolation only in the words of our Savior and
the healing efficacy of time. Those old-fashioned
lines, that are always new to the sorely tried, came
to my mind on that occasion:
	“Come, ye disconsolate, where’er ye languish,
		Come, at the shrine of God fervently kneel;
	Here bring your wounded hearts, here tell your anguish,
		Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal."

	There is comfort for the bereaved parents when
the precious little ones are taken in their purity
and innocence, and I have no doubt whatever
that there is a shining escort to go with them; they
do not go out into the darkness alone; to them
there is no “dark valley or shadow of death.” The
last words uttered by the little sufferer were,
"Good bye, mama, good bye;” then one final strug-
gle for breath and all was over.
		“Weep not for those whom the vail of the tomb
		In life's happy morning hid from our eyes, 
		Ere sin threw a blight o’er the spirit’s young bloom,
		Or earth had profaned what was born for the skies."
	Little Percival was looking forward with intense
pleasure to the birthday of his Grandpa Wells, on
which occasion each of the grandchildren were to
represent a flower, the whole to form a Bouquet of
Beauty; Percival was to be a Chrysanthemum, and
was reciting his verse the morning before he died,
he had himself composed two lines. But he has
joined a still larger gathering of little ones in the
bright mansions above, where there will be no
more pain, and death and sorrow cannot enter
there forevermore.


