TRAINING CHILDREN.

	"The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that
winneth souls is wise."—PROVERBS, xii, 30.

	Many reflections pass through my mind with
regard to our youths, who are growing up in
Zion.  I can see that great responsibilities rest
upon parents in the way they train their child-
ren, from the time they can understand a look
or a word. Their mind from birth may be
compared to a sheet of white paper, susceptible
to impressions made, good or evil.
	As I understand, this instruction to be made
upon the child’s mind by the parent, is obedi-
ence to their commands. The imperative “no,”
should be given to its wrong acts, and the ac-
quiescive “yes,” to its right ones.  A frown
should rest upon the countenance of the parent
to show it is in the wrong, and a smile to show
approbation. To you young mothers, let me
say this is a very easy way to govern your
children, without hard words or blows, and
never threaten to punish unless you put that
into execution, and then not in anger, or for
slight cause, but with calm and decisive words,
in reason, showing the wrong. Many a child is
ruined by wrong tuition, and it is high time
that we understand true government, first to
govern ourselves.  Of all people we should
practice that which will result to benificent ends.
The child should be taught not to destroy things.
This evil is a growing-propensity in our child-
ren; teach them the use and value of everything;
when they begin to cry for things that they
should not break to pieces, cross them in their
temper, and show them your superior judgment;
teach them to be clean in their habits, and this
will grow with their growth, and make you a
great deal less trouble.
	And, dear sisters, never counteract the com-
mands of your husbands to your children, but
teach them to obey and respect him and his
word. What I have suggested here can begin
 to be taught to your child before it can walk or
talk.  When they are old enough to work
teach them industrious habits; keep the body
well balanced with the mind; activity brings
health, strength and wealth; teach them order;
this will make labor easy, and lay a foundation
to build the character upon, and their moral
lives. “Train up a child in the way it should
go, and when it is old it will not depart from
it.”
	Let us not form these vague ideas that our
children cannot accomplish what we have done
before them, and have surmounted, barriers
that will fall in their way. While they are
full of life and vigor, labor will strengthen
their more noble instincts and their minds to be
led to fill a life of usefulness, and not idleness,
that leads to crime and misuse of time.  What
a pleasing sensation fills our minds when we
enter a house where there is union and a well
disciplined family, each doing their part, and
all striving to make one another happy.
	Here is where our heaven is to begin, in the
family circle.  If we see this order of things at
our neighbor’s, it only gratifies us for a short

[Column 2]
time if we have it not in our own. Then let
us all strive together to have happy homes,
lovely and obedient children, not be selfish,
teach them to be humane and generous, to take
every burden off the shoulders of the aged and
infirm. And you young boys from ten to four-
teen years of age, four or five get together
every tenth day and clean out all those obnox-
ious burdocks and weeds in the streets, pile
them in the middle of the street and burn
them up. You can pay tithing that way, or
poll tax; and, oh, what a satisfaction it would
be to see our streets made clean and tidy, and
poor widows’ gardens cleaned up, and your
own.
	If we will give attention to all these things,
soon, very soon “Zion will become the joy of
the whole earth,” and the fir tree and the box-
wood will be brought up to beautify the home
of the Saints.
	Please read in Societies.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Oct. 16, 1887.


