WOMEN OF INDIA.
			MOHAMMEDANS.
	In India all Mohammedan women are “pur-
dah women”—purdah meaning a curtain or
screen. As they say, they “keep purdah."
They live behind the curtain, and their faces
are seen by no man, except the husband, father,
or brothers—not even by the husband’s brothers,
unless they are young boys. They occupy
that portion of the house which is known as
the “zenana”—the place of the women. All
Mohammedan houses are similiarly constructed.
A large building in front, richly furnished, for
the men; behind this an open court with foun-
tains, dwarf palm trees, etc and back of the
court the meagerly furnished zenana.
	The patriarchal system is kept up as with
the Hindoos, the son and grandsons bringing
their wives to their father’s house, and three or
four generations are usually found under one
roof. The women spend all their time in the
zenana. They gossip and smoke, and array
themselves in their fine clothing and jewelry,
and no doubt quarrel a bit sometimes.
	A wife is allowed to dine at her mothers’s
house once a month. If her family is wealthy
she covers herself to the eyes in a large chud-
dah, and is taken to the house in a closed car-
riage, or palanquin. If she is poor, she wraps
the chuddah about her and walks to the house
at midnight, when the streets are empty, re-
turning the next night at the same hour.
	On my first visit to a zenana, early in my
Bombay life, I went with an interpreter, for I
had not learned Hindoostani and could not
understand one word of conversation in that
language. At the first house we found all the
women in one room, and they appeared to be
entertaining a figure which was shrouded in a
white sheet, and was sitting upon a large, white
cushion or mattress, which was spread upon the
floor.
	Upon inquiry, I learned that this ghostly
shrouded figure was a newly made widow, her
husband having died at sea two weeks before.
They said that she must never leave the cushion,
upon the floor for a single moment, until her
period of mourning—four and one-half months
—was past.
[Column 2]
	The windows of the hot room must be kept
tightly closed, and the blinds drawn down, lest
some man in some other house should see her.
If, on the very last day of the four and a half
months, the shadow of a man should fall upon
her, she must commence over again, and sit
four and a half months longer. On this ac-
count, the widow is carefully guarded until her
period of mourning is ended. If the house is
large and she has a mother to wait upon her,
it is easily managed. But if they are poor
and the family all live in one room, as is often
the case, the mourning widow’s lot is a hard
one. They partition off one corner of the
room with matting, make a little pen for her,
and in that close, stuffy place she must stay
four and a half months.
	Formerly Mohammedan girls were married
nearly as young as the Hindoos, but now they
do not marry until they are eleven or twelve
years old.  They say it is too hard to keep
little girl widows sitting so long.
	The women of the house I visited were doing
their utmost to cheer and entertain the widow,
and help her to pass away the time.
	When female relatives came from outside,
there was alwaws a certain amount of wailing
and beating of breasts, but it soon developed
into an afternoon gossip.
	As a rule, a Mussulmani woman is not too
much attached to her husband. She never sees
him until the day of the wedding, and often
does not know whether she is marrying a man
of her own age, or an old gray-headed villain,
who has buried several wives.
	At the next house I visited, I found four
wives of one man—a sheik who had been a
grand man in Zanzibar before coming to Bom-
bav. He first married an Abyssinian woman,
who died while he was at Zanzibar. He saw a
good many English ladies there whom he ad-
mired, and he determined that his second wife
should be white. So he sent to Constantinople
for a Circassian girl. She was pretty, and he
was, so well pleased with her that he soon sent
for another, and again another. At about the
same time the Sultan of Muscat died, leaving a
pretty widow who was also a Circassian or
Georgian, and the old sheik took her for the
fourth wife, making his number complete, as
the koran allows four wives to all faithful fol-
lowers of the prophet, who can support so
many.
	This was a very happy family, the wives
calling themselves sisters. The eldest boy,
when speaking of the family, said: "My father
is well and my four mothers are well.” These
four mothers took very good care of their nine
children, and each seemed equally anxious when
one was ill.
	In the course of time, the old sheik died,
and then it became a serious question how the
widows could keep their mourning period, as
there was no female relative to look after them.
Finally a friend of the family, an Arab lady,
came to the rescue and took them all home to
her own large house, where there was plenty of
room to conceal them. The childrem were al-
lowed to visit them once a day,so their mourn-
ing period was very comfortably passed.
	On a man’s tomb there is a representation of
a pen box, on his wife’s a blank tablet. This
is to show that a woman’s mind is blank, except
as her husband writes upon it. They do grant
a woman a soul, but it is of an inferior kind,
aud there will be a special place prepared for
her, outside her husband’s paradise.
	The dead are buried in a sitting posture, so
that they may the better fight the angel, when
he comes to question them of “the deeds done
in the body." A woman who never marries
is worshipped as a saint, and all her relatives
prostrate themselves before her and kiss her
feet. 
	If a woman is ill, an old "hakim" is con-
sulted. He writes a text from the koran on a
[Column 3]	
slip of paper, and directs her to soak the paper
in a glass of water and take the resulting medi-
cine in divided doses. This she does religiously,
in full confidence that she will be cured.
	In the thirteenth century, a Mohammedan
woman named Rezia ruled all Hindoostan. She
was beautiful and clever, and went about ad-
ministering justice among men, as if she her-
self were, a man. A Turki chief rebelled
against her. There was a severe battle and
Rezia was defeated, but she soon conquered her
conqueror, by marrying him.
	About 1550, Chand Bibi was reigning queen
of Ahmednagar, her husband, the nizam, hav-
ing died before their son was old enough to be
crowned in his stead. During her reign, the
fort of Ahmednagar was besieged and a breach
made in the wall. Chand Bibi led the army in
person, and defended the breach until assistance
came from her brother in Bijapore and Ahmed-
nagar was saved. She wore a vail over her
face, and was known to the troops as “The Lady
of the Vail.” On a high hill near the city,
there stands to-day a beautiful structure known
as “Chand Bibi’s Mahal.” It was built by a
grateful people to perpetuate the memory of a
queen who saved her country. Every one
knows the story of the Emperor Shah Jihan’s
favorite wife, Nur Mahal, or “The Light of
the World,” as she is often called, and the
glorious Taj at Agra, which he built for her
tomb. There it stands on the banks of the
Jumna, as fair and white to-day as when it was
finished, more than two hundred and fifty years
ago. It has been fitly called, “A poem in
marble” Edwin Arnold says of it in “India
Re-visited:” “The crown of the world, the
peerless tomb built for the fair dead body of
Nur Mahal, by her lorn and lover, the Emperor
Shah Jihan In all the world, no queen had
ever such a monument. 		*	*	*	*	
	As you pass beneath the stately portal, in itself
sufficient to commemorate the proudest of
princesses, and as the white cupola of the Taj
rises before the gaze and reveals its beauty,
grace by grace, the mind refuses to criticise
what delights the eye and fills the heart with
reverence for the royal love which could thus
translate itself into alabaster. The moral of
this tomb is written near by: ‘Saith Jesus (on
whom be peace), this world is a bridge; pass
thou over it, but build not upon it. This
world is one hour; give its minutes to thy
prayers; for the rest is unseen.’ ”
	The Begum of Bhopal is the only reigning
Mohammedan woman, at this time. Bhopal is
one of the smaller of the native states, but it
has been so wisely managed that it brings in a
large revenue. During the Sepoy mutiny, the
present begum’s mother ruled the state. She
remained loyal to the British government, and
offered men and money for subduing the re-
bellion.
	The present begum has received two decora-
tions by order of the queen empress—“The
Companion of the Star of India,” and one
other which is conferred upon women only.
			—S. F. Norris in Hearth and Hall.


﻿The Pundita Ramabi has brought out a
second edition of her deeply-interesting book,
“High-Caste Hindu Woman.” Every woman
ought to read it.

	The temperance women of England have
been getting up a jubilee memorial to the
Queen in the shape of a petition that the bar-
rooms be closed on Sunday. It now contains
three-quarters of a million signatures.

	Vittoria Colonna was boried in a small and
obscure church in Rome, now being demolished,
Sant’ Anna dei Falegnami; and the archaeolo-
gists and literary people of that city are anxi-
ously expecting the discovery of her “cypress
wood coffiin, lined with embroidered velvet.”


