		SALT LAKE CITY:

	My brethren and sisters and friends: By way
of introduction I desire to say that I feel to thank
God and all my friends for the blessing I enjoy at
this time—for the privilege, once more, of enter-
ing this Tabernacle and beholding the faces of the
Latter-day Saints. And I feel a good deal as
Mark Antony did when he went to bury Cæsar.
"I come to bury Cæsar," said he, "not to praise
him." I come to see the Latter day Saints, but
not to preach to them. You have plenty of Apos-
tles and Elders to preach the word of the Lord
unto you. But I have long desired to again enter
this Tabernacle of the Lord and see the Latter-
day Saints. It has been some three years, I think,
since I have met with the Saints of God in this
house; and I will tell you how I felt about coming
to Conference. I felt that it would not be doing
our great and mighty nation any harm—a nation of
sixty millions of people—for two or three old men,
seventy-five or eighty years of age, to come into
this Tabernacle and look at the Latter-day Saints
and at the faces of their wives and children. I
do not know that I have a wife or child here. If
I have they will be able to see how old I have
grown since we last met. Some of us have tried
to keep the law to such an extent that we have al-
most forgotten how our wives and children look. I
feel, however, to say, God bless the Marshal and
officers of the government as far as they can exer-
cise mercy, charity and humanity toward the Lat-
ter-day Saints in fulfilling their duty as officers of
the government. I feel thankful to day for this
privilege, and I feel at peace with all mankind. I
am at peace with all my friends. As to my enemies,
I do not know that I have any. If I have, I hope
that we may be at peace upon the principles of
the Gospel of Christ, of righteousness and of
truth.
	Now, with regard to preaching to you, my
brethren and sisters, that is a subject I have
thought very little about. I have preached this
Gospel for some fifty-four years, and have learned
by experience a great while ago that it is no use
			[column 2]
for an Elder in Israel to decide in his mind what
he is going to say to the Saints of God. This is
the way I feel to-day. And I will say this, that
there are times in a man's life when he cannot help
reflecting upon the past. That is my condition to-
day. Since I have entered this Tabernacle, and
looked upon this congregation, my mind has re-
verted to my life from the time I became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and this engenders in my bosom some very
solemn reflections. Fifty-four years ago this last
spring I traveled a thousand miles with the
Prophet Joseph, and his brother Hyrum, Brothers
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A.
Smith, and a great many other men—some 205 in
all—mostly Elders in Israel—for the redemption
of our brethren—to assist them in the midst of
persecution. Our Prophets and Patriarchs, many
of them, have passed away. They are on the
other side of the vail. Since we came into these
valleys forty years ago the twenty-fourth of last
July—I drove President Young into this valley in
my carriage, and he was sick at the time—eleven
of the Apostles have passed away. They are in
the spirit world mingling with the Gods, where
they can plead for their brethren. These are re-
flections that rest upon my mind as I occupy this
stand where I have met day after day and year
after year with these noble men. President John
Taylor, who was our last President and Apostle,
has also taken his departure. The last time I was
in this house I met here with him. His work is
finished. He has gone into the spirit world, where
we shall all go very soon. Sometimes, in my re-
flections, I feel somewhat lonesome when I think
these matters over. I feel as if I had lived two
or three generations since the days of Kirtland
and Nauvoo, or since the establishment of this
Church and Kingdom with which I have been as-
sociated for so many years. I realize myself that
I shall not dwell a great while upon the earth. I
do not expect to dwell a great while longer with
the Latter-day Saints. I have lived to the age of
four score years, and when I contemplate the
multitude that has passed away since we entered
these valleys of the mountains, I can only expect
to take my turn with the rest. But I will say this,
I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; I rejoice
in the work of God; I rejoice in the principles of
eternal life, light and truth, which have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints.
	We have been called as a people to pass through
a great deal of affliction in our day and time. But
this eternal truth remains on earth and in heaven—
that the God of Israel has set His hand to establish
His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, and to
fulfil the revelations contained within the Holy
Bible, the Old and New Testament, as well as
other records which have been given concerning
the last dispensation and fulness of times.
	We are all of us, brethren and sisters, depend-
dent upon God our Heavenly Father for all our
blessings, both temporal and spiritual. Indeed,
while I contemplate our progress, our advance-
ment, and the signs of the times in which we live,
I feel that we, as Latter-day Saints, should try to
fully realize and comprehend our responsibility
before God, before each other, before the heavens
and before the earth.
	I have for a long time had a desire to mingle
with the Latter-day Saints, and to take part in
their institutions—the Sabbath Schools, the Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, and with the vari-
ous organizations of the Church. But for several
years I have been laboring in other portions of the
country, and have been deprived of the privilege
of meeting with the Saints so far as this portion
of the Territory is concerned.
	I have desired from my youth up to become ac-
quainted with the truth as contained in the Gospel
of Jesus Christ. From my youth up I have had a
desire to live and find the people of God on the
earth. I have lived to see that day. I have live


to see Prophets, Apostles and inspired men. I
have associated with them for many years of my
life. This has been a great pleasure to me, and a 
great satisfaction to my own spirit.
	And I desire to say to the Latter-day Saints,
that we should remember that we are sent here on
a mission; that we have been born in the flesh in
this last dispensation of the fulness of times. We
have been called to labor in the vineyard of the 
Lord, called to preach the Gospel, called to warn
the nations of the earth, and many of them have 
been warned. We have traveled by land and by 
sea; have visited many foreign nations, also al-
most every part of our own nation, and some of
us are drawing our missions to a close.
	I have a desire that the Latter-day Saints should
try to live their religion, and endeaver to do what
is right; that they should have faith in God, and
in the revelations of God, and in the principles
which have been revealed to the Saints for the
salvation of the human family.
	We have a great many organizations in the 
Church and Kingdom of God, and have had al-
most from the beginning. They are so organized
that all men and women, whether young or old,
have a place of usefulness. We should try to im-
prove our time, our talents and our opportunities
while we are here upon the earth. I realize that
this world is not our abiding place. We have an 
evidence of this every day of our lives. We are
called to bury our Prophets, Apostles, Elders,
fathers, mothers, wives and children, all of which
shows us that we have no lease of life. We
should therefore improve our time to-day.
	I have felt to give the Latter-day Saints my
faith and prayers in all their labors and exertions
to build up the kingdom of God. I try to build it
up to the best of my ability in accordance with
the light and truth and knowledge which God has
given me.
	This is the first time that I have endeavored to
speak in public for a good while. I have not been 
laboring in the midst of congregations like this. I
have just passed through a week of sickness,
which laid me prostrate. I feel the effects of it in
my lungs, and in my system, yet I feel all right in
my spirit. I felt as though I desired to look upon
the faces of the Latterday Saints, and hear the 
testimonies of my brethren. They have heard 
my testimony in years past. I have the same testi-
mony to bear to-day. I bear record before God,
angels and men, that the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has been revealed in these last days through
the Prophets of God; and that Joseph Smith was
raised up by the power of God as a Prophet, Seer
and Revelator.  He laid the foundation of this 
Church and Kingdom in its perfection, as it is at
the present time. He brought forth the record as
contained in the Book of Mormon, in fulfilment of
the predictions of the Prophets of God; also the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, which contains
those grand and solemn revelations, and those
principles of eternal truth, so precious to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. These things are true. We
should study them; lay them up in our hearts, and
practice them in our lives. This is the kingdom
of God, and the Church of Jesus Christ. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to carry out the
great programme of the last dispensation and ful-
ness of times. If this had not been true Utah to-
day would have been in all probability a desert as
we found it in 1847, when first we came here. God
has been watching over this people, and will con-
tinue to, so long as we continue to do our duty.
So long as we humble ourselves before the Lord,
so long as we keep His commandments, so long
will the hand of God be over the Latter-day
Saints; Zion will arise; Zion will be clothed upon
by the power of God. The Lord is watching over 
her; the heavens have been watching over this 
people, and have been from the beginning. We
have the blessings of God with us. They are
manifest in our temporal and spiritual affairs.

[Column 2]

As I said in the beginning of my remarks, I
realize that the voices of those we were accus-
tomed to hear in the past are hushed in death. We
shall hear them no more. The rest of us will fol_
low in their train. We shall all pass away in our
turn, and we have a long eternity before us in the
world to come. Those that have passed away 
have closed their work here and are laboring to-
day on the other side of the vail.
	You have had laid before you, during this Con-
ference some things pertaining to the redemption
of our dead, and some things in regard to the 
building of temples. These, brethren and sisters,
are important works. They are works which we
do for others that they cannot do for themselves.
This is what Jesus Christ did when he laid down
His life for our redemption, because we could not
redeem ourselves. We have fathers and mothers
and kindred in the spirit world, and we have a
work to perform in their behalf. As an individual,
I have had great interest in this work of redeem-
ing the dead, and so have my brethren and sisters.
This is a labor we must continue as far as we have 
opportunity. This principle was taught by the
Apostle Paul. He asks, "If the dead rise not at
all, why are they then baptized for the dead?"
This is a work that rests upon the Latter-day
Saints. Do what you can in this respect,
so that when you pass to the other side of the vail
your fathers, mothers, relatives and friends will
bless you for what you have done, and inasmuch
as you have been instruments in the hands of God
in procuring their redemption you will be recog-
nized as Saviors upon Mount Zion in fulfillment of
prophecy.
	I hope that our institutions—those that have
been referred to in our Epistle—the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, etc., will continue to do good. They
have done a great deal of good, and still have the
power to do more. These institutions belong to
the organizattons of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. The brethren and sisters
should continue to labor in them in behalf of the
rising generation of this people. The Mutual im-
provement Associations are good schools in which
to prepare our young men for the vineyard of 
Christ. So also are the the various quorums of
the Priesthood, and we should all labor to the
best of our ability to fulfill the duties devolving
upon us.
	I feel the effect of my sickness; I feel it upon
my lungs, and do not think it necessary to con-
tinue my remarks. I am glad to see you, and say
God bless you, and I pray that God may pour out
His Spirit upon you, that we may magnify our 
calling, do our duty, keep the commandments of
God, so that when we get through our work we
may be satisfied with our history. I feel to bless
this congregation, as far as I have the right and 
privilege to bless, in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. The Latter-day Saints have been trying 
to do their duty, but there is room for all to im-
prove; let us walk uprightly and labor for the
truth, and for the inspiration of Almighty God to
assist us in all we endeavor to accomplish. I 
pray our Heavenly Father to uphold and sustain
you, to bless you and your fami ies, to bless you
as husbands and wives and children and as Latter-
day Saints, or any other capacity in which we are
called to act. This is my prayer in the name of 
Jesus Christ, amen.


