		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 13th of September, at 10
o' clock a.m.  After singing, prayer was offered
by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.  Continued by
singing.  Minutes of previous conference read

[column 2]
by the Secretary, Mary E. Snow, and approved.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few remarks,
and the statistical and financial reports from 
23 different branches were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Sister Zina D. Young said, "My dear sisters,
you have left your homes and families, and I
suppose you have cared for your little ones,
that they have proper attention in your absence.
You have met together to be strengthened and
comforted.  Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith is bet-
ter, and she sends you her love and blessing.  I
have been pleased to hear your reports.  The
Lord said, ‘Speak often one to another.’ If
those who stay away could know what they
lose, a great many more would strive to attend
meeting.  Keep up gathering wheat.  We are 
doing a great and good work; it is not alone in
looking after the poor, but in saving souls. We 
must take care the Lamanites do not excel us;
you heard their report; they have 58 members
enrolled and 40 average attendance; this speaks
well for them. Our children are our main care;
the allurements are just terrible; when we
slacken in prayer and commence fault-finding,
then we are in danger.  Our souls need food as
well as our bodies.  We are living in an age;
when the fulfilment of prophecy goes on before
our eyes daily.   We need strength and we
receive it by meeting together.  As Bro. Kimball
has predicted, we are living in a testing time; it
is labor continually, but thereby we lay up
treasures in heaven; we may be tried in our
feelings, but I hope not in our faith. The
kindness and love of God in organizing these
associations in everything to me, above all the
wealth of the world.  The Prophet Joseph 
Smith said, ‘This work is not perfect without
these organizations.’ We can work for the liv-
ing, and we can go and work for the dead.
May God bless you and comfort your hearts;
and may He bless us all, that we may continue 
faithful unto the end and receive a fulness of
the reward in store for the faithful, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Harper said, “I hope, my sisters, we
may all have the spirit of our religion, that we
may withstand the trials and temptations of
the present time.”
	Sisters Hunsaker, Jensen and Watkins each
spoke briefly and encouragingly.  Exercises
closed by singing, and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Hubbard.
	Afternoon session:  Opened by singing.
Prayer by Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing.
Condensed report read by Mary E Snow.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke of the evil conse-
quences of supporting our enemies. “We
should patronize and sustain our own brethren
and sisters.”
	Sister Peery said, “I would not sacrifice my
position with my sisters to-day for all the
wealth of the world; we are the salt of the
earth; we need to be on our guard, lest the ad-
versary throw doubt in our hearts.  Let us re-
member our prayers; the first thing I do in the
morning is to ask my Heavenly Father to lead
me through the day.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “It is through 
obedience and humility that we gain the bless-
ings of the Lord. When I hear of any of our
brethren or sisters departing from the truth, I feel
bad; I do not feel that sorrow when one of my 
brethren or sisters die and are clothed in their
robes; we have to be tried to know which side
we belong to.  Joseph Smith said if we prayed
morning and night we should never apostatize.
Mothers need the assistance of the Lord; never
let your children be exposed to danger; it is
for us to stand for the kingdom of God; the plat-
form of faith and obedience is for the mothers
to rest on.” Showed how men who had re-
ceived visions and great testimonies had after 
all apostatized, hence how careful we should
be. “ ‘Fear not, but follow our file leaders,' has
been my motto always; let not fear fill your


[Column 1]
hearts; comfort those who are downcast and
tried; remember, whenever these uprisings
come, these inroads are made, we have made
another step heavenward. Encourage our
Primary and our Young Ladies' Associations;
this is the way we should save souls; let our
children feel that we become better by attend-
ing Relief Society meeting. Try to have the
Juvenile Instructor and WOMAN'S EXPONENT
in your homes. May your hearts always be
willing to do the will of the Lord, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly
forcibly and by the Spirit of the Lord on
many important subjects and duties.
	Prest. Harriet Snow proposed conference ad-
journ for three months. Singing, "Lord dis-
miss us with Thy blessing." Benediction by
Bishop Harper.

	After 4 o'clock a number of the sisters met
at the residence of Sister Sarah Snow, where,
previously, a number of well filled baskets had
been secreted; we had confided in "Aunt Zina,"
so that she secured our beloved "Aunt Harriet"
at home, and while she stepped outside to care
for her chickens, the parlor became crowded
with happy self invited guests. When "Aunt
Harriet" returned she was greeted with the
singing of "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," after which Sister Widerborg stepped
forward and said, "We congratulate you,
Aunt Harriet, on your 68th birthday," and all
around came, "May your last days be your
best." "Aunt Harriet" looked the very picture
"surprise." With much merriment the table
was spread, or rather crowded, with a delicious
supper, and a few hours were passed in true
happiness, the object fully realized, to tender
our love and confidence in our President. Sister
Harriet Snow, and which was made doubly en-
joyable by the presence of our beloved Sister,
Zina D. H. Young.
