D. M. MULOCK CRAIK.

	Mrs. Dinah Maria Mulock Craik who died in
England, on the 13th of October, 1887, was
born at Stoke upon Trent in 1826. Next to
George Eliott as an authoress in modern times
her name must stand. Her books have a very
refined character, taken as a whole. She has
studied human nature and woman's nature
pretty thoroughly. Her books are as popular
in America as in England, but not more so.
Her first work of fiction that attracted atten-
tion, and it is said to be her first attempt at
romance was entitled, “The Ogilvies,” she was
then 23 years of age. The next year she pub-
lished  "Olive;” at the age of 25 “The Head of
the Family;” shortly after “Agatha’s Hus
band.” and from that time on has written vol-
ume after volume. “John Halifax, Gentle-
man” is considered by most people her best
work; though I greatly prefer some others; her
women are generally well drawn and strong
minded,her men weaker and yet, the newspaper
critics, some of them say, she makes women too
submissive and subservient. To me she seems
to have the best ideas of woman, women must
give if they expect to receive, must honor if
they expect to be honored. Miss Mulock’s
“Hannah” is the best argument of the injustice
of the old English law against marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister that I have ever seen
and ought to have as much weight with the
English people and Parliament in the annull-
ing of that law as “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” had
in the United States in abolishing slavery.
	Among literary people Mrs. Craik was a
great favorite though I know very little of her
except from her writings. To me she seems
a woman of wonderful imaginative capacity
in character upright, straight-forward, con-
scientious, appreciative and honest. Well
acquainted with English life in its realty, I
hope some day to see in print a sketch of her
home life written by one who would do her
ample justice—ED.
			THE FUNERAL.
	The funeral of Mrs. Craik, best known as
Miss Mulock, took place in London, Oct. 16th.
Her mortal remains rest in a corner angle of
the Keston churchyard, not far from the grave
of Darwin.
	When the family cortege left the pretty
vine-embowered villa built of red tile, Gothic
style, where she had so long lived with her hus-
band (a partner in Macmillan & Co’s), there
was brilliant sunshine; but when the bier, borne
upon the shoulders of six gentleman friends of
the family, entered the old-fashioned church a
shower of rain gently fell, to be followed by
genial sunshine, when the service—which the
vicar performed—was ended.
	A PICTURESQUE GRAVE.
	The grave presented a picturesque appear-
ance, its sides and bottom being in pure white
chalky soil surrounded with exquisite flowers,
from wreaths sent by order of the Queen and
by Lord Tennyson, and other floral designs
which were sent by relatives and friends, to the
modest gifts of wild flowers from Sunday
School children aud rural neighbors. There
was a large attendance—of some who came to
honor themselves by paying their respect to the
memory of the novelist, poet and essayist, and
of throngs of neighbors who chiefly recognized
in her loss that of a good friend and benevolent
lady whom all the parish had learned to love.
	SOME OF THE MOURNERS.
Among the mourners were the brothers Mac-
millan and their families; John Morley, the
statesman and author; Holman Hunt. R. A.,
and wife; Sir George Grove, the great musical
critic; J. Norman Lockyer, the poet; Henry
Craik, O. B., and family; Frederick Greenwood,
[Column 2]
the journalist, and Mary Anderson, who placed
upon the coffin a basket of exquisite exotics.
I must not forget Mrs. Craik’s adopted daughter,
whose banus were read in church only last
Sunday in the presence of Mrs. Craik. During
a hedge-side walk, years ago, the authoress
found a babe that had been abandoned. Her
innocent smiles and coquettish ways immedi-
ately won the heart of her future mother, who
adopted and reared her.
		HER OWN HYMN.
	The village choir, as the coffin was lowered,
sang a hymn which it was said Miss Mulock
had written, one verse of which I send, as fol-
lows:—
		"Earth to earth and dust to dust.
			Calmly now thy words we say.
		Left behind, we wait in trust 
			For the Resurrection Day.
		Father, in thy gracious keeping
			Leave we now thy servant sleeping."

