MORALITY.

	It is generally conceded to those who have
made the subject a study, that the nature of 
man is made of three distinct parts viz.: the 
physical, the intellectual, and the moral.  The 
physical constitutes the material part of man's
nature, and the intellectual is made manifest
through the operations of the mind.  It is to 
the development of these two that much time,
money, and thought are devoted. We hear a 
great deal said, from time to time, about edu-
cation. The little boy is told, that if he will
study hard, while young to gain an education,
the chances are, that, at some future day, he
will be a great man.  He is told that if he
study hard enough he will; probably, fill the
position of president of the United States.
	The little girls, too, are shown no less glit-
tering pictures of future advantages that await
them; on conditions that they are diligent in
acquiring a knowledge of a prescribed number
of branches taught in school.  Not only are 
parents anxious that their little ones grow up 
with all the scholastic advantages which they
can afford to give them, but it is with equal solici-
tude that they watch with a jealous care that
no accident befall them, or anything from in-
fancy up to maturity, happen to them which
is liable to injure or mar, in the least, the
physical growth and perfection of their chil-
dren.  It is, undoubtedly, a source of intense
pleasure for parents to contemplate the beau-
tiful and well formed bodies of their offspring
and to see the fruits of their cultivated minds
made manifest.  This, in a measure rewards
them for all their watchfulness and trouble.
All these provisions for the development of the
rising generation, both mentally and physical-
ly are very good and as they should be, but
there is still another education which should 
receive even more attention than these named
and without which, an education, in the gener-
al sense of the term, often becomes a curse in-
stead of a blessing to its possessor. This educa-
tion consists in the culture and development of
the third nature of man known as morality
and which directs the other two in a right
course.  It is that course of action which con-
science dictates as the right course.  It is
that which would guides one to do his duty to
God, to his fellow beings, to himself, and to
the lower animals.  It is that course of ac-


tion which conscience dictates as right
and which has been expressed in the words, “Do
unto others as you would have them do unto
you.”
	We are all aware that the persons who are
capable of doing the greatest amount of injury
or the darkest crimes, in the home, the village,
the state or the government, have been edu-
cated, so far as intellectual culture is concerned;
but search their private records and they have
been found almost invariably, to be persons of 
little or no moral culture. To neglect this
branch of education of a child, is to sew the
seeds of crime and vice, and to allow them to
take their lessons, in morality, from vicious as-
sociates upon the street corners and disrepu-
table places is equally as bad. As a people, we
believe that our future glory, will, in a great
measure, depend on our children, and it is
sad neglect of a duty when we allow their
moral natures to become corrupted.  It should
be the object of parents and children, to de-
velop in the highest degree, morality; to seek
every means to promote its growth, and en-
deavor just as earnestly for thier education in
this as they do to develop the physical and intel-
lectual nature.  And as the moral is the con-
trolling power over the other two, and that
which is to decide the entire character; it is im-
perative, in order to make a good member of
society, that the utmost care and attention be
given to moral culture, and its most perfect de-
velopment.			L.A. SCHOFIELD.
	Nephi.


