[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 164 | Special Feature | Relief Society Arm in Arm With the Priesthood Robert | L. Simpson]
Relief Society Arm in Arm With the Priesthood [Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967. ] Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric » Elder Romney, Sister Spafford, brothers and sisters, the Lord must be very pleased with the activities of these two days. The Lord's pleasure can only be complete, however, as we now implement what we have been taught during this conference. So, the true test really lies ahead as we put ourselves into action. Why does the mere mention of the words Relief Society renew my faith? Why do I thrill each time I see the sisters accomplishing their noble work in a quiet, unassuming manner' without boast, no show, just unobtrusively "seeking out objects of charity?" During the past thirty days, I have observed you quietly administering consolation and assistance to a family who lost a loved one. I have seen you graciously and compassionately comforting the sick. I have seen you faithfully going forth to spread your tidings of good will as visiting teachers. I have seen you faithfully going forth to Spread tarried a little too long in help. Your Cheerfy] countenance and Ing to deliver a baby. Yes, Visit - to ably and willingly respond to ing teaching can really be excitner erhaps J a little IstyMaybe I ave some of these €yed because I rem mber go ell feelings abou Relief Society beth Y When a lief Societ € world. I wa d Weary, almos aS an afte tho ght, « d and ho S as sat down, Please €aven] her ¢ Practically in th Shadows of the restore eyesight My b by Pyramids » Prepared to was born py] > and yoy have anded me th d Cross did not d 2.00 ye 80, nor an you agin Y emotion will they ever long as he emotion that filled m there a; faithfy] Relief Societ €art—as I found a note inside Sisters O Tlesthood Which rea ~— the Lord bless bearers Uniting their f. Th, makyou for What yoy are doing in Ing al] things Possible in the Lord. The name of liberty and Peace," Who can match the Strength signed, "The Relief Society of character, the Patience, Or the The Church of Jesus Christ of hope of one 'Relief Society mothe Latter-day ' aints, Takami Who declare In my hearing, af IS frujt sent by the il] It a hy dred m e, if very same Sisters w d blesseq need be, because ] ant to spend me so Undant] ew eternity With the fath of m ealand Sslonar Just a Couple ch Idren H. A good an, and Of years before found me Now th n he wil] alfway around the World. My recognize € truth of this great chance 9 receiving that ParticyChurch," ar fruitcak Was probah Y Some Sisters, here jg Id Saying, Ing like 4 million, Jt "First things fip. T," and I Would did Something ¢ me. It was an like to © 2 ples With you answer to Prayer here today that in yoy do elief Society also Means With y lr Dazaars th your Watching the good Sisters of quiltin jects th y ur dies,' river to Insure a ne hundred thing You have to lS made Per cent Visiting €acher report, Possible 5 Cause yoy are specia] and Particular] » the time the The Lo S given yoy a didn't come back + t evenin Perame d Personality that They were not back Until the are different from ys men. There Next day because the ocean tide are things that the Priesthood came in to block their Path can Most effectively 4CComplish homewarg, only because they through you and only through March 1968 you. Just keep in mind the direction found in your Handbook, and that singular, noble purpose will never be found wanting. That printed direction from your Relief Society presidency states that your main purposes are: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level... To save souls. (Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.) Oh, that every woman in the world had such a code to live by! What a different world this would be. In discussing this important speaking assignment with Sister Spafford and her counselors, the suggestion was made that something might be said that would be helpful in fostering a closer understanding between the ward Relief Society presidents and the bishops. I took the liberty of inviting several bishops to make comments upon their working relationship with the Relief Society presidency of their ward. I thought some of their observations were classic, and I would like to pass them on to you this afternoon. While the examples are from bishops, the same fundamentals would apply, of course, in a branch or mission, as well as in the ward or stake. One bishop said this: "Our Relief Society president is always ready with excellent counsel, and once the bishopric makes a decision, she supports us all the way." This statement could well have been made by the First 166 Presidency of the Church with reference to your general president. Nothing has thrilled me more than to see the cooperation of Sister Spafford and her counselors in carrying out the desires of our leaders. You will be interested in a recent comment made in my hearing by a member of the First Presidency when he said that he had never known a woman who supports the priesthood any better than Sister Spafford. Sister Spafford, we salute you for your great example. It reminds me of a slogan, "Which way to go, the leader will know." I hope every stake president and bishop is able to make this same observation about his stake or ward Rehef Society president. To be sustained in Church leadership is vital to the success of this Church. Nothing means more to a leader than to be sustained by those working with him. President Tanner related a touching incident on one occasion as he told about his first counselor when he served as a bishop of a ward in Canada. An important decision had to be made. President Tanner and his first counselor had differing opinions about the solution. They decided to fast for twenty-four hours, that the final decision might be correct. After the fast, it was obvious that each was still of the same opinion, and then Brother Tanner stood up and said, "Brethren, as_ the bishop of this ward, I feel strongly that this is the way we must move." At that point, that great first counselor came to his side, put his arm around the bishop and declared, "Bishop, I want you to know that I sustain you all the way." You see, the priesthood authority had spoken, and now this is the direction we move. Recently, a General Authority had just expressed his views on a vital subject, and afterwards was informed that the President of the Church had just given his view, and that it was different. This great apostle of the Lord then commented without hesitation: "In that case, brethren, I have just changed my mind." We must follow our properly designated authority in this Church. Should we fail in this concept, chaos would reign. The work could not go forward. May I be bold enough to share with you sisters a very personal incident that took place just six years ago this week as President McKay honored me with this call to be a member of the Presiding Bishopric. Naturally, there was a period of quiet emotion after the invitation was made. Then as we stood, ready to take our leave, President McKay walked directly to Sister Simpson. He took her by the hand. He proceeded to look deeply into her eyes and into her soul, and his patient silence and kindly smile seemed to be an invitation for her to comment. Finally, she said, "President, I want you to know that I will support and sustain my husband in this new calling." With that, President _McKay said, "Sister Simpson, that is exactly what I wanted to hear."
There can be nothing more fundamental in the Church than a faithful sister supporting the priesthood, whether it be her Relief Society—Arm in Arm With the Priesthood husband, or her designated authority in the ward, stake, or mission. Here is another comment from one of our ward bishops: "I never need to worry about confidential matters slipping beyond the Relief Society presidency." The duty and the right of being a common judge in Israel, among the members of the wards and stakes rests with the _ bishop. This is his unshared ward responsibility. Stake presidents have the same stake-wide responsibility. Each ward bishop, of course, has that jurisdiction only within the membership of his own ward. It is his right alone to conduct the personal, private, searching interviews into the hearts of the ward members. This is necessary in determining personal worthiness and in order for him to be in a position to be most helpful. No other officer in the ward has this same right, and, as bishop, he determines the need, then administers the necessary assistance through the appropriate priesthood or auxiliary leader of the ward. It is often necessary to share certain segments of confidential information. Very often that appropriate person is the Relief Society president. To repeat such privileged information needlessly, to pass it on as neighborhood gossip, or even to share it in the supposedly airtight family circle, would surely be a gross violation of the sacred trust placed in you. It is my own personal opinion that violators of such a confidence will be held accountable by the powers of heaven. May I share this comment from a bishop in Arizona: "She 

167 March 1968

 never resorts to guesswork. Our Relief Society president knows her program and also has an excellent concept of the priesthood and its functions." The Lord admonishes us through the Doctrine and Covenants: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand... (D&C 107:99-100.) There is a small part of your day, every day, that you might set aside better to learn your duty in Relief Society. How about five o'clock in the morning, if no other time seems right? I think it is important to find an island of time every day when you can improve yourself in your calling. Unfortunately, there are those in the Church who feel that programs can be changed at random merely to meet temporary whims or conveniences, Through Priesthood Correlation, each program becomes a part of the total fabric of the Church. No program can be considered an island. Due to Correlation, everything is now interrelated as never before. To take liberty with a single program is to distort the whole. Be assured, sisters, there is a reason for each phase of the Relief Society program as it is today. It is our fervent desire that you will have the faith to follow the program. This should have been the commitment and heartfelt agreement of each Relief Society president as she accepted her call. Should there be a sister who cannot wholeheartedly accept the pro- 168 gram for which she has been given responsibility, she has a moral obligation to meet with her priesthood authority for a serious talk at the earliest moment. Only as we believe in and have confidence in the programs we administer can we be effective in their implementation. "For if a trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?" (I Cor. 14:8.) So spoke Paul to the saints at Corinth. Still another grateful bishop made this observation: "Our Relief Society is a beehive of activity. All the women are anxiously involved, thanks to a Relief Society president who radiates faith and encouragement as she involves everyone about her." We have often heard it said, "How much more valuable is the man who can get ten men to work as contrasted to the man who can do the work of ten men." This is a Church of involvement for many. There is no place for the prima donna. Surely the Lord gave sound advice to Moses as he found himself overburdened with administrative details and the multitude of daily problems that persisted as the Israelites moved across the wilderness. Moses was told ".. Thou art not able to perform it thyself alone." He was then advised to organize his people into groups of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens, with leaders over each unit to take care of the immediate problems, and then to bring to Moses only the major matters. Then the Lord concluded: "... So it shall be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee." (Exodus 18:15-22.) I might add, they shall share the blessings with thee. And this, I repeat again, is the very essence of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is important for a Relief Society president to free herself for those duties that she alone can do by virtue of her calling. Others will benefit and grow from experience, and as we delegate to others, may we communicate well—explain the assignment in simple, understandable language. Then, check understanding carefully. Having the sister repeat back her own understanding of the instruction, to my mind, is the best way. Sprinkle in a generous portion of your own enthusiasm. Enthusiasm is contagious. Follow up in a kindly, helpful way from time to time, just to make certain that all is on course. Finally, let your crowning effort be a sincere word of commendation. That way the door will always be open for tomorrow. Many times we feel that an unwilling worker should be released without hesitation. I like President Tanner's advice on the subject. He says if you have workers who will not respond, there is no question about it, fire them—fire them with enthusiasm! Do it again and again. After you have done this kind of firing a few dozen times and still no results, then maybe you can think in some other terms. A little act of kindness, a little tact, is so important as we involve others. Brother Dunn tells the story about a good sister who was shopping for a pair of shoes. She entered the first store, was fitted, and complained about one shoe being Relief Society—Arm in Arm With the Priesthood too snug. She was told by the clerk that one of her feet was larger than the other, and she left in a huff. At the next store, a much wiser clerk observed that one foot was smaller than the other. She immediately made the purchase. Now, one final comment from a bishop: "I can always be certain that recommendations and decisions made by our Relief Society president are influenced by the spirit of the Lord." The Lord has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." As you partake of the sacrament each week, you renew your covenant to keep his commandments, that his spirit may be with you always. Then, sisters, it ls just as simple as that. As you abide by his commandments, you become available to the gifts of the spirit in your callings. In effect you "put on the whole armour of God." (Ephesians 6:11.) A decision that is modulated with the Spirit of the Lord is essential to the success of this great latter-day work. Simplify your lives. May we always remember that the Lord's house is a house of order, and that is the way yours should be. Unless your own home is in order, it is unlikely that your Church assignment will be. Paul gave advice to the bishops in the meridian of time, and I am convinced that this reasoning would also be true for all who hold the office of presidency in Relief Society. He described the able bishop as "One that ruleth his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity." Then Paul asks, "For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of 

169 March 1968

 the Church of God?" (I Timothy 3:4-5.) May we not consider an able Relief Society president, in like manner, as one who manages well her own house, having her children under control with sincerity; for if a sister knows not how to manage her own household, how shall she take care of her important Church assignment? My wonderful, dear sisters of this great Relief Society, mothers in Zion, defenders of the faith, may I invite you to listen closely to one additional thought, and as you listen, may you rededicate yourselves as Latter-day Saint women. For as Paul puts it, "as the elect of God," and this you surely are, then, showing forth as Paul urges:.. Mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: Even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts... And be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another... Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. (Colossians 3:12-17.) Sisters, the air is literally charged with anticipation and urgency for this particular General Conference. All of this because the Church is growing, stretching. There has never been a time when so much needed to be done. It is your good fortune to be blessed to live in this most exciting time and to find yourselves locked arm in arm with 170 the priesthood in the front ranks of the most vital and urgent cause known to men. Never before has time been shorter. Never before have the ranks of leadership been more capable, but lest we forget, never before has the Adversary been so clever, never has he been so cunning in his attempts to thwart our success. How grateful we should all be for that blessed event of March 17, 1842, when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society "after a pattern of the priesthood." Then, to continue in his own words, "as an aid to the priesthood," to function "under the direction and guidance of the _ priesthood." There is nothing more glorious in this world than a cooperative and loving, capable woman standing faithfully at the side of her busy, dedicated husband, both anxiously engaged in teaching their children in truth and light, both finding time to be of service in the kingdom, both cheerfully obedient to their priesthood authority. Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God. (I Corinthians 11:11-12.) I bear testimony that only as the priesthood-bearing man, and the priesthood-honoring woman supplement one another in a common, dedicated, righteous endeavor, can the ultimate purposes of heaven be _ achieved. May God so inspire us, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. KNOWLEDGE OF GREATEST WORTH [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967].. For out of the books which shall be written I will Judge the world, every man according to their works, according to that which is written (2 Nephi, 29:11.) Mary V. Cameron Member Relief Society General Board 172 These are the words of the Lord, as told by the prophet Nephi, and the books referred to are the recorded words of God to his children. The Lord further says, "because that I have spoken one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another... Because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my words... That I have not caused more to be written. (2 Nephi, 29:9-10.). The Lord made it clear that he would speak to the Jews, to the Nephites, and to others of his children. He says, "... My word also shall be gathered in one" (2 Nephi, 29:14.) We, as Latter-day Saints, have the great blessing to possess not only the Bible but The Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. These are our only holy scriptures—the word of the Lord "gathered in one." These records were preserved by the _faD ED, AeA Lord that they may come to us in his own due time and in his own unusual ways.