[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 226 | Fiction | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

She is still active and feels that she is inspired by the variety of activities Relief Society offers. Sister Hayward, at ninety-two, is the mother of thirteen children, grandmother to forty-two. She has seventy-two great-grandchildren and eight great-greatgrandchildren. She remembers each on Christmas, birthdays, and other special days with a special gift of her handiwork. On their wedding days the children and grandchildren receive a beautifully finished quilt. 224 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities ne€, Shreveport Stake (Louisiana and Texas) Board Covers Many Miles November 20, 1967 Left to right, members of Shreveport Stake Board: Ozell Loyd, social relations class leader; Stella Hampton, cultural refinement class leader; Elizabeth Conley, Counselor; Lola Wade, President; Geverne Johnson, Counselor; Odeal Rascoe, SecretaryTreasurer; Lucille Stegall, visiting teacher message leader; Elva Cobb, spiritual living class leader. Lea Wagley, chorister, and Beulah Hayes, Magazine representative, were unable to be present. Sister Wade reports: ''Our stake comprises thirteen wards and branches, covering many miles in western Louisiana and eastern Texas. This requires many hours of travel for most of the sisters, and we feel that their efforts to attend leadership meetings should be rewarded. "We have tried to plan more inspirational and meaningful meetings. We are a new board, and were encouraged with an increase in attendance at our last meeting. Each ward and branch had a beautiful display of arts and crafts handwork, and decorations for the holidays. "A short play, 'Everyone Remembered,' by Luacine Fox, was presented under direction of Geverne Johnson. At the conclusion of departmental work, festive refreshments were served." 

225 March 1968

 Duchesne Stake (Utah) Honors Magazine Representatives for Outstanding Achievement, September 7, 1967 Ward Magazine representatives, left to right: Thelda M. Halstead, Stake Magazine representative; Margaret Wright, Duchesne Second Ward; Letta Meyer, Bridgeland Ward; Linda Gines, Tabiona Ward; Stella Pearson, Altamont Ward; Colleen Thacker, Moon Lake Ward. Belle Bird, Bluebell Ward, and Shirley Bancroft, Duchesne Ward, were unable to be present when the picture was taken. Ora N. Holgate, President, Duchesne Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Magazine representatives in the Duchesne Stake achieved a sixty per cent increase in Magazine sales during the past year. This achievement was highest for percentage increase among the stakes of the Church. "In order that these sisters might know how much their efforts were appreciated, they were honored at a special opening social. The program was centered around the theme 'The Magazine As the Heart of Relief Society.' All Sisters were encouraged to read and study the valuable contents of the Magazine. "Each of the Magazine representatives was presented with a corsage in appreciation for her efforts, and each hopes to go forth this year in similar fashion." 226 Andes South Mission, La Paz (Bolivia) Branch One Bazaar October 28, 1967 La Paz Branch One Relief Society officers, front row, left to right: Wilma de Mercado, First Counselor; Myrna T. Gibson, Supervisor, Andes South Mission Relief Society; Norah de Concha, President; Nieves de Alcazar, Second Counselor; Mery de Sainz, ' visiting teacher message leader. Second row, left to right: Angelica de Escobar, social relations class leader; Soledad de Gonzales, spiritual living class leader; Carmen de Molina, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Gibson reports: ''It was a thrill to see the cooperation and unity with which these sisters worked to produce fine articles of clothing, household, and novelty items. Bazaar items were well-made and the bazaar was a credit to the Church as well as to this small branch. 'We have no districts in the mission, but most of the Relief Societies do hold bazaars, and the sisters love the activities involved, and work very hard toward their success." 

227 March 1968

 New England Mission Relief Society Presidency Gives Extra Effort Toward Leadership Building Left to right, Donna Packer, Supervisor, New England Mission Relief Society; Leah Dupuis, President; Esther George, First Counselor; Althea Dickson, Second Counselor. Sister Packer reports: ''Our current Mission Relief Society Presidency has done an outstanding job in leadership building since their call in September of 1966. They have, as a presidency, often attended district leadership meetings to give training to the district officers. This requires much travel time. Through their efforts, the district leaders have responded by increased attendance at mission leadership meetings. "One can see devotion, sacrifice, and constant growth in Relief Society in the mission, through the efforts of these sisters. Our past is colorful and commendable, but our vision for the future is for greater achievement as we support the priesthood in perfecting the homes of New England."' Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) ''Mini-Bite Luncheon" and Christmas Display November 3, 1967 Emma Solomon, Second Counselor, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, as Mrs. Santa. Loreta N. Gubler, President, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A 'Mini-bite Luncheon' and Christmas display which we themed 'Browsing Through Mrs. Santa's Workshop,' were held as a fund-raising project. We felt that the displays of handmade Christmas decorations and gifts were presented early enough in the season to be of some value for immediate use. 'Under the Yum Yum Tree' was the theme of the luncheon which was attended by 500 guests. Under the 'Yum Yum Tree,' gaily decorated with red and green homemade lollipops, were displayed holiday goodies. The recipes were sold at ten cents from each sister for all the recipes. Beautiful baked goods and candies were sold. "We felt that this project was a spiritual as well as a financial success." Clearfield Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Relief Society Opening Social September 26, 1967 Clearfield Eighth Ward Relief Society officers, front row, left to right: Novella H. Perry, Secretary-Treasurer; Gay C. Knighton, Second Counselor; Arvil T. Walker, President; Beth J. Jacobs, First Counselor. Back row, left to right: Betty Carter, organist; Donna Cornia, cultural refinement class leader; Jean Stanley, chorister; Phyllis Douglass, homemaking leader; Ruth Hoggah, spiritual living class leader; Paula Jacobson, Magazine representative; May Fackrell, quilt chairman; Gladys Schiffman, social relations class leader. Ora R. Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Relief Society Cure in a Capsule,' was the theme of the Clearfield Eighth Ward opening social. The lesson previews and the officers and teachers for the coming year were presented. "A skit entitled 'An Appointment at the Relief Society Clinic,' featuring Dr. Medication, Nurse Charity, and two patients, Sister Doubt and Sister Excuse, was presented. Each of the officers and teachers represented a doctor and explained her cure. 'A clever table display carried out the clinic theme and it was also featured at the luncheon in the table decorations."' 228 € Fa a we £ a A] ps - Se o e- _ March 1968 Idaho State University Stake Relief Society ''House of Fashion" Leadership Meeting, October 1967 Idaho State University Stake board members and discussion leaders, seated, left to right: Marjorie Denkers, spiritual living class leader; Jane Nielsen, visiting teacher message leader; Joyce Craigh, homemaking leader; Alma Olsen, homemaking discussion leader; Diane Perry, social relations class leader; Sherry Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader. LaRue Longmore, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth Godfrey, organist; Martha Smith, chorister; Carolyn Palmer, Secretary-Treasurer; Judy Walsh, Counselor; Beverly Anderson, Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President. Sister Chase reports: ''At our leadership meeting, each department leader arranged displays depicting her program, based on the theme 'Relief Society Wardrobe.' A skit, 'The Relief Society House of Fashion,' introduced the lesson previews. "In our collection we reviewed ensembles one can make as a part of a wardrobe, showing that Relief Society fashions are basic and long-wearing, guaranteed to bring sparkle, style, and happiness to any woman who wishes to spend her time in Relief Society. "Invitations were designed and made by Carolyn Palmer; Diane Perry and Marjorie Denkers were responsible for the decorations."' South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Sponsors Oil Painting Class July and August 1967 Sister Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, reports: ''During July and August, a ten-week oil painting class, spearheaded by the stake homemaking leader, Geraldine S. Halladay, and taught by Max Durrant, a local high school art instructor, was held in the stake center. "The response was so great that three classes were required, instead of one as originally planned. Some entire families participated. "Three objectives were studied: (1) a still life subject, using white, yellow ocher, raw umber, thalo blue, burnt sienna, and learning to mix colors; (2) a landscape scene using various shades of green; and (3) free rein to paint something of the student's choosing. All class members also learned to make their own frames, painting them colors to complement the pictures. "Upon completion of the course, the stake Relief Society sponsored an art exhibit. Shown were 102 paintings of fifty students. Refreshments were served to a large group who were enthusiastic about the quality of the work displayed, and the display itself. We plan to make this an annual affair. Some of the art work is displayed in the picture."' Juarez Stake (Mexico) Dublan Second Ward Relief Society Opening Social, September 1967 Dublan Second Ward Relief Society officers, beginning sixth from left on back row: Estela Q. Macias, Secretary-Treasurer; Refugia Valenzuela, Counselor; Adelina E. Garcia, President; Manuela R. Garcia, Counselor. Retiring President Aurora Garcia is standing twelfth from left on the back row. Standing at left in white dress: Sister Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society. Sister Taylor reports: ''The Dublan Second Ward was newly organized and began the year's activities enthusiastically, with a successful opening social. "The ship in the foreground of the picture served as the motif for the program. An original skit, written by Maria Masa, spiritual living class leader, was presented. It depicted the various values to be received through taking part in Relief Society. 'Exhibited in the background are articles made by the sisters of the Dublan Second Ward." 230 4 ine) om! -~ on ~ co < oc? Ry =— —~< = i] ca o ae I oO ~~ "Tl ae > i —— e& == March 1968 San Mateo Stake (California) Burlingame Ward "Home-Tour Bazaar," November 17, 1967 Standing, left to right: Harriet Bowen; Arlene Spurgeon, homemaking leader; Esther Hendricks; Dorothy Spackman; Edna Cockayne. Merle Gaisford, President, San Mateo Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very Successful Home-Tour and bazaar was held by the Burlingame Ward. Three homes were used to display the items for sale. "The Esther Hendricks home, decorated in a Christmas motif, contained the handmade items. In the home of Louise Johnson, Irene Bassetti, a successful artist and a member of the Burlingame Ward, displayed beautiful oil paintings and a table setting easel. "The Edward Tueller home dispensed delicious home-baked treats with hot bread lending its aroma." Canadian Mission Relief Society Conference October 14, 1967 Front row, seated left to right: Mildred Smith, First Counselor, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Alberta Smith, Second Counselor; Elva M. Adamson, President; Helen Toronto, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor, General Presidency. Standing in front: Ida Perkins, music director, modeling her centennial gown. The remaining sisters are Singing Mothers who furnished the music for the conference sessions. Sister Toronto reports: ''The theme for the conference was 'We Thank Thee Lord for Faith,' and the conference was in connection with Canada's centennial celebration. Presented by the sisters of the Sault St. Marie Branch who traveled 1000 miles to Participate in the conference. "Outstanding work displays were set up by each district in the mission, and by the mission board. A wonderful spirit was enjoyed at the conference. We were honored to have present Sister Sharp and Sister Madsen of the General Presidency." West Boise Stake (Idaho) Honors Visiting Teachers October 20, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Ada Winch; Isabelle Dougal; Lorraine Hatch; Stella Fields. Standing at right: Mary Zurcher, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Jennie Farmer; Myrtle Borup; Grace Jones; Kleo Jeppesen, visiting teacher message leader, Sister Zurcher reports: "A tribute to our 200 visiting teachers was held in the stake center. The book History of Relief Society was presented to the sisters with long service records as visiting teachers. They were thrilled with this book, and it is a gift they will cherish always. "An original skit representing Cinderella in a Latter-day Saint setting, written by Beverly Tanner, was presented and a luncheon was served. Boise Eighth Ward won honors for attendance. "We as a stake board feel that the visiting teaching program is an arm of Relief Society that contributes decidedly to the spirit of the organization, and these faithful sisters are deserving of honors." 232 HANAN.