[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 212 | Fiction | Where Did My Happiness Go? Venda | B. Castleberry]
Two years ago when Mother had visited us, I had been dis- 'Wi Coo Wrmiine DID MY HAPPINESS GO? Venda B. Castleberry couraged with my seeming inefficiency as a homemaker, seeing my life as insignificant. Mother had somehow made me feel that my work as a mother was more creative than I felt. "... Your home is a laboratory—a studio— where children are being shaped into men and women," she had said* That crisis had passed; now there was another. Andy's company was transferring him to Portland, a thousand miles away, and he was leaving next week. At first he had taken it for granted we would all go, but I had convinced him that it would be better for him to go now—the children and I to join him in the spring. "It's just too cruel to uproot them now—the middle of the school term—they've got a good start in dancing—their music. Let's give them time to get used * Editor's note: See "A Time to Every Purpose," February 1966. 212 to the idea of leaving their friends; they'd be shattered...." I had said, and Andy was convinced—too easily. I had convinced him, and then, perversely, was vaguely uneasy about it! There was a time, I knew, when such sloppy' thinking * would have brought hoots of laughter from him, for we both knew that our children were nothing if not adaptable, and that they would be happy wherever Andy and I were. Had he given in because he was hurt by my suggestion, or was he glad to go alone? Well, I thought now as I dusted the rocking chair and put a vase of flowers on the dresser, at least the house is clean, and I will not bother Mother with my problems this time. Mother was coming that night, on the late flight. We left the children with a neighbor girl and went to meet her. On the way to the airport, Andy turned the car off the freeway and drove up the old road, to the top of the hill where the lights of our little city were spread out below—vari-colored, twinkling jewels, thrown at random on black velvet. "We have some time; let's look at the lights and talk," Andy said, putting his arm around me, trying to pull me close. I turned one shoulder stiffly, and sat hard on my side of the seat. Not this time, I thought, he always thinks whatever is wrong between us can be erased by this.... He put his hands back on the steering wheel, straightened his arms to push his back against the seat. Looking at his hands on Where Did My Happiness Go? The wheel made me remember other times when we would drive up here and I would wait, not able to breathe, until his arms were around me. "Pat," he said now, "what's wrong with us? We used to just look at each other and know what the other was thinking, wanting... Lately I don't know what you're thinking or— sometimes now I look at you in church across our lineup of kids, and I remember how you used to manage to sit by me! I think —she's lovely, but do you know something? I try to picture you, now, doing things the wonderful, sweet, crazy way you used to do —and the picture won't come." "I've tried to learn a few things.... Lately I've been getting your things ready to go," I said. "Honey, you do fine,' Andy said quickly, "in fact," he grimaced, "maybe you're getting too efficient! I miss the girl who used to serve the pie while the potatoes and meat were cooking —and put the baby to bed with his shoes on to keep his feet warm—and— sometimes asked even stupid me for advice!' He drummed gently on the wheel with his fist as he said slowly, "Oh, yes—getting my things ready to go.... You're very efficient about that! I wish...." What perverseness made me break in with "Let's go! If a man doesn't want to be pleased...." On the way home from the airport, Andy told Mother about the new job. She said, "Oh, my! I should never have come at this time! There must be a million things you have to do, getting a family ready to move...." 

213 March 1968

 I tensed as Andy said, "Oh, Pat and the youngsters aren't going now; just me," and listened for Mother's tone when she answered only "Oh." As always, Mother was a joy to have for a visit. Her career, presenting her original music and poetry to groups all over the country, has given her a sweetness and depth that is something to behold! Wie day before Mother — and Andy—were to leave, I was alone in the bedroom packing his good clothes. Mother tapped on the half-open door and came in. There I stood, Andy's suit jacket crumpled in my hands, my cheek against it. "Patricia, darling—whatever are you crying about?" Mother asked, taking the jacket from my hands. '"Here—see now—you've got it all wet." She pulled me gently to sit beside her on the bed. "Do you want to tell me what's wrong?" "T—I—made up my mind that this time—always before when you came—you—gave so much— I made up my mind that this time I wouldn't let you know anything was wrong—and then— I could tell you knew anyhow. Did Andy say anything to you?" I was wailing between words. "No," Mother said, "was there something he was supposed to tell me?" "No, I guess not," I said. "It's just that....' I looked around the room at Andy's scattered clothes—the open bags—and I felt my throat ache thickly, my eyes smart with tears. "I've been so mixed up for the past year or so—and now—I thought I wanted 214 Andy to go without me. It was my idea, Mother—or at least I thought it was—and then just now I went to put his suit in the suitcase—and it—it—smelled like him—and I remembered when we were first married—and whenever he had to be away overnight I'd tuck notes in his pockets, Mother—love notes— saying how lonely I was—and now he wants to leave me...." Mother took my hands down from my face. "But you said it was your idea," she said. I moved from the bed to look out the window, not seeing anything. I turned to sit in a chair near Mother. "Td just as well tell you," I said. "You'll think my life is like a soap opera—just living from one crisis to another! But this thing—Andy going away, and how I thought I felt about it— and wondering how Andy really feels—Mother, did you ever want Daddy to go away? Did it ever seem to you that—that just— just coping with marriage was too much for you?" "Well," Mother said thoughtfully, "one is so inclined to remember only the good times! A human relationship is so complicated—takes so long to build and changes so often—but, yes, I think that in the structure of any marriage there would be some wanting to get away." "I've been feeling so—so— married, Mother! So _ horribly, finally married, and it's like a trap! There's no excitement— no joy! I know everything about Andy—or I thought I did—and what he's going to say before he opens his mouth. Is this all there's going to be, forever, this sameness?" I said. Mother took her turn looking out the window. "If only," she said, "they wouldn't end the stories with "They lived happily ever after!'" "Do you know what I think?" I said. "It's cynical, I know, and not like me, the one that couldn't wait to get married! But this is it: marriage is a big blaze of excitement—an_ attraction to assure that you'll, get married; it's momentary flashes of that attraction to assure the advent of babies—and then the sociological phase sets in—you know, keep the institution of marriage going for the good of society— and just try not to die of boredom!" "Oh, Patricia," Mother said, "you never used to be bored— ever! Be careful when you feel this way—discouragement and boredom are such potent weapons for Satan! Does Andy know how you feel?" "I've never told him," I said. "I guess you've noticed we don't talk much. But he's noticed changes—he complains about the way things are. I guess some women pretend to feel the way they did—it seems dishonest to me!" I picked up a clothes brush and squeezed the bristles as I wailed, "Oh, it's so complicated! Why couldn't life stay the way it was? I'm so mixed up—Mother, where did my happiness go?" Before Mother had time to answer, the children came home from Primary, and there was no opportunity for further talk. Mother insisted that Andy and I go out that night, leaving Where Did My Happiness Go? The children with her. Her "going away present" for Andy, she said, since both he and she were going away! We went to a movie, but my heart wasn't in it. I knew Andy and I had something that needed to be said; I needed to know how he felt about me—and going away alone. But I couldn't ask him, because even if he had begged me to go, I was not sure what I would have said. He might have been one of the shadow-figures on the screen, for all I could communicate with him! Andy took Mother to Danton, where her next engagement was, before he went to work the next morning. I almost envied her, as I kissed her goodbye, knowing each day would bring new places, new experiences. Ellen had slept with Mother in the guest room, and when she came out that morning she was carrying an envelope addressed to me. "Look, Mama," she said, "Granny Witch type-writed you a letter last night." "What an awful name for your Grandma!" I said. "She only told you her name was Granny Witch to tease you. You are not to call her that! Give me the letter." I put the letter in my skirt pocket, hoarding the pleasure of reading it until Ellen was cared 

215 March 1968

 for. I had read many such, for Mother and I had always left notes whenever we had something to say that was close to our hearts. I went into the guest room and closed the door. Crayoned pictures of strange, lopsided houses and people with arms growing out of their heads were lined up on the dresser where Mother had put them, to show proper appreciation for Ellen's art. The scent of Mother's cologne clung to the pillow I pushed under my head as I lay across the bed to read what she had written. "Patricia Dear," she had begun, "how I wish I had the wisdom of Solomon tonight! You said to me, 'Mother, where did happiness go?' and if I live my lifetime only to help you find the answer—then my life will have been well-spent and meaningful! "Where did your happiness go? The happiness you were speaking of—the happiness that came unearned and free because you were young and pretty has gone. It died as a mushroom dies because it sprang, without roots, and too quickly—and lke the mushroom, this happiness did not contain nourishment enough to sustain itself—or a mature marriage! "But from the ashes of that ephemeral happiness can come a real joy—a phoenix so strong and beautiful that it will make life worth living for you—in this life and through all the eternities. "When you said, 'Where did my happiness go?' [ am sure you meant 'Where did my love for Andy go?' for it was your feeling for him that triggered the ques- 216 tion. It has not gone, Patricia; it is changing. Change is the law of life, an eternal progression that does not find us today as we were yesterday; our challenge is to channel change in the right direction. "To us married in the temple for time and eternity, the concept of marriage is especially challenging. Whatever marriage we build here—it is ours forever! What an incentive to keep love alive! "Patricia, this is a period of assessment in your marriage—a time when you are taking a new look at Andy—and I am sure he is looking newly at you also. This is the time, darling, when Satan whispers to so many, 'find somebody new—a different husband will make it the way it used to be!' Liar that he is, he doesn't tell them that a new look at their marriage is what they need, that it has changed because they have changed! "Start by putting Andy first! Your love for each other is the most important thing in your life, and in your children's, for they will be secure and free to develop only if they see that you and Andy love each other. Children must see love demonstrated. When you were a child, did you connect the sacrifice we made to buy you clothes and food with love? Of course not, but you often speak of the 'family hugs' we had, when you felt we all loved each other. Patricia, why don't you kiss Andy goodbye when he leaves for the day? The wife sets the emotional temperature of the home, and if coldness prevails, you will miss_ the warmth in your winter days! A man starved for warmth is looking for it, whether he knows it or not—and he will find it, as the hungry man's eye will see food signs, and his nose will pick up food scents as he walks down the street! "Build Andy up as the leader in your marrige. He holds the priesthood, and it is his privilege and duty. 'Ah,' you say, 'but he does not lead with the right spirit! He doesn't want to be bothered.' Then, darling, encourage him! Stand back—let him lead—and you will see him grow. It was such a blessing to me, as you were growing up, to know that your father was skilled —after much practice—in guiding our family, so that all the awful responsibility was not mine! "You see, Patricia, it is, in a wonderful kind of way, selfishness—this building a happy marriage; if Andy is happy and fulfilled—then the friction is gone, and the energy that used to go into jockeying for family leadership can go into loving plans for your happiness and fulfillment. Patricia, don't fall into the trap of making Andy abdicate his leadership—and then despise him for his weakness! Woman is strong enough to help her husband to become his very best! "Where did your happiness go? Your real happiness is within you, but you will have to cultivate and nourish it, and its growth will be slow. There is a certain sameness to daily living, but challenge this sameness by making sure that every day there is a memory for you and Andy to share—you two out of all the world. The twittering of waking birds in the morning; a campaign Where Did My Happiness Go? To help a child have a perfect day; a sunset; when you go out in public, look at him, talk to him as if it were your first date. Try this, and you will be surprised at the way your love will blossom. Don't let this love die! Keep it so fresh that Andy's will be the first face you will look for on resurrection morning...." I could read no farther on the final page. Tears blurred my eyes. "Oh, Mother," I said, pushing the pillow over my face, hard, "you know me _ better then f know myself! Am I ever going to grow up?" When it was time for Andy to get on the train that night I still hadn't told him I had changed my mind—I was coming to him as soon as I could. I kissed him so long and hard that he gave me a slow, appraising look, though, as he swung up the train steps. I saw him through the window, settling into a seat. Suddenly I was running through the crowd on the platform, yelling "Andy, Andy, da
rling!" He was laughing, the last I saw of him as the train gathered speed, and it didn't occur to me at the time that my race with the train would be the first memory of our awakened marriage!