[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 206 | Fiction | Sugar Easter Eggs Virginia | Beesley Cannon]
[Sugar Easter Eggs Virginia Beesley Cannon]

Using plastic egg molds that separate in half lengthwise, press sugar mixture into each half with thumbs, working towards edges and making walls from % to %-inch thick. At pointed end of egg, scoop out a half circle to make the peek-through. Carefully lay a piece of cardboard over the top and invert it so that sugar egg half comes out onto cardboard. Allow eggs to dry overnight. Scrape bottom off half of the molds to flatten them slightly for standing, then fill the eggs with green grass, tiny Easter eggs, wee little chicks, or cut out scenes, miniature plastic flowers, or even a tiny cutout snapshot of each of the children. Adjust top half of the egg over bottom and seal the two together with a bit of decorating frosting. Put frosting into cake decorator and pipe around the seam, then around the peek-through opening, and anyplace else desired, either to decorate or to attach decorations, such as gold braid or flowers to egg. Frosting may be tinted any color, as may sugar mixture, for making the eggs. Decorating Frosting Beat together until very thick 2 egg whites, 2 c. Powdered sugar, and a dash of cream of tartar. Be sure to keep the bowl covered with damp cloth when not in use, as this frosting hardens quickly. 207 I shall never forget my first trip to Kalaupapa. We had arrived in Hawaii just a short time before. My husband had been called to preside over the Hawaii Mission, and he had carried with him for over twentyfive years the vivid memory of another visit when he had served as a missionary in Hawaii as a young man. We walked down the pali (cliff) on a steep and rocky trail and arrived at Kalaupapa an hour and a half later, muddy and a little tired. A meeting was held in the branch chapel that evening and, for the first time, I met the dear people of Kalaupapa. They bore their testimonies and sang for us. I remember their rendition of "Hawaii Aloha." They sang like angels. There began the association of three years during which time I became even more enamored of the people and the place. Kalawao is a small peninsula nestled at the foot of a sheer pali on the northern shore of the island of Molokai. On the tip of the peninsula is a small hill on which stands a lighthouse, and on the leeward side, lies the settlement of Kalaupapa. Here and there are graceful palm trees and other greenery, and homes neatly situated on the quiet streets. The ocean which surrounds Kalaupapa is beautiful in all its moods, sweeping in long, white-crested breakers on the lee side, and splashing with vigor against the cliffs that rise in rugged succession on the windward shore. Here one finds a spot shut off from the rest of the world. I — I Orlene J. Poulsen Place of Refuge Former Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society I No wonder this peninsula, isolated by the cliffs of "top-side" Molokai on one side, and the ocean on three sides, was chosen by King Kamehameha V, in 1865, as the site where those afflicted with Hansen's disease (leprosy) could be isolated to stop the spread of the disease. It was on January 6, 1866, that the first boat carrying nine men and three women arrived, and the first settlement at Kalawao, two and a half miles across the base of the peninsula from the present Kalaupapa settlement, was established. Life was very difficult in those early days. Doctors visited the settlement rarely and could do little to arrest the progress of the disease. Law and order were difficult to enforce. The windward side of the peninsula, where Kalawao was established, was lush and green, but it was also damp, and other illnesses came upon the patients. Over the years improvements have come. The selfless dedication of a Catholic Priest—Father Damien—is well known. He arrived in 1873, intending to stay for two or three weeks, but instead he spent the next sixteen years administering to the physical and spiritual needs of the patients —and then died, a victim of Hansen's disease. The settlement was moved from Kalawao to Kalaupapa, and health conditions were improved considerably. Law and order were established, and the needs of the patients provided for by the government. And, Transparencies by Imogene Woodbury 

209 March 1968

 finally, the use of sulfone drugs, beginning in 1946, caused Hansen's disease to recede greatly. In July of 1965, there were only about sixty cases of Hansen's disease in the settlement. Another 135 who have recovered from the disease live there by choice. It is their home. Participating in the history of Kalaupapa since its early days have been members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and for many years there has been a branch of the Church there. At first, the missionaries were not permitted to teach in the settlement, so the meetings were held in the Kukui nut grove at the foot of the pali. Construction on the old branch chapel was begun in 1901, and the building small monument on the grounds still marks his burial place. The early saints not only had to collect all the money but do all the work, and they were all patients. Money was very scarce. The patients were given portant—and very expensive. When the barge came in, all the material, even the precious bell, was just thrown overboard, and the men had to swim out and either push or pull it to shore before it was washed out to sea. In 1956, a new chapel was erected under the Church Building Program, and the old one was torn down. A large group of workers, directed by building supervisor Claude Terry, turned out on May 18, 1965, and the building was torn down and cleared away in a week, and groundbreaking for the new one was held on May 29. The response of members and nonyears. His friendly, helpful, jovial manner 'wins him friends wherever he goes. He is respected as a business man, religious leader, and friend. In preparation, fattened a pig for a dedication luau. The big day came—on December 16, 1965, when President Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of Seventy dedicated the building to the Lord, and at that time the first meeting in the chapel was held. Two weeks later the dedication luau was held with President Sing's pig and the cooperation of the entire settlement—all of whom had been invited to share in the happiness at the completion and dedication of the 210