[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 204 | Fiction | The Home Inside and Out Meet the Mallow Family Eva | W. Wangsgaard]
[The Home Inside and Out Meet the Mallow Family Eva W. Wangsgaard]
MEET THE ALLOW FAMILY Eva Willes Wangsgaard s The family of plants called the mallows (Malvaceae) is a large and varied one, representing in origin many lands and many nations of the Northern Hemisphere, and widely cultivated in numerous areas of the world. More than thirty branches (species) of this populous family have been identified and their geographic homes charted in the heritage of plants. The mallows are annual, biennial, and perennial, growing as small trees, as shrubs, as sturdy or fragile stems, and as small, persistent weeds. Mallow leaves are variously lobed or deeply cut. Some of them are of glossy texture, and others are fuzzy and webbed. The blossoms are single or double, or very double, some of them beautifully fluted, wearing many tints and tones of rose and red, purple, delicate bluish-violet, creamy white, or pure white. The hollyhock (Althaea rosea, native of China) growing stiff, straight, and tall, makes a magnificent backdrop for the garden stage. Another Althea, the rose of Sharon (native to Eastern Asia), is often called by observant children, ''the hollyhock tree.'' It does resemble a tree in dwarf proportions. Usually, the rose of Sharon grows on a single woody trunk with branches forming a close-limbed oval a few feet from the ground. This shrub ts hardy, fast growing, and a prolific bloomer. The flowers are of many pastel tones from deep lavendar, through pink, to pure white, sometimes mottled or striped. The hibiscus is the aristocrat of the mallow family. Instead of the large, rough, roundish leaf of the hollyhock, or the smooth, fine-textured, deep-green, slightly dentated leaf of the Althea, plants of the hibiscus genus have dentate or lobed leaves, and large, showy flowers. They range in color from deep red, almost maroon, to rose, deep pink, light pink, and white, with petals rose-washed at the center. In size, they vary from a saucer-size to blossoms as large as a family fruit bowl. From the dwarf mallow to the hollyhock, to the rose of Sharon, and the hibiscus, the texture and the tinting and the rufflings and the flutings are a delight. Why don't you invite the mallows into your garden and enjoy a satisfying and colorful friendship with their fluted petals and their radiant color? Transparencies by Janet Knowles Deep rose-colored hollyhocks like a chalice in the sun. Pastel hollyhocks against the summer sky. Hibiscus on a summer bough. IBranch of Althea Shrub \ge22206e4e4 3652s" «D> ASTER EGGS Make sugar mixture by combining: 2 c. Granulated sugar, 2 tbsp. Ice water. Mix with back of spoon until moist throughout. Mixture is just right if, when squeezed in hand, it leaves imprint of fingers on mixture.
