[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 192 | Special Feature | Red Cross | Meets Challenges]
RED CROSS MEETS CHALLENGES # One of the major challenges the American Red Cross faces today is in Vietnam, where a tough and demanding conflict calls for new approaches to the continuing problems of serving the United States armed forces in the field. In 1965, twenty-five Red Cross staff members served in South Vietnam. Today, more than 300 serve the nearly half million American troops stationed there. Almost 200 of the American Red Cross workers on assignment in South Vietnam provide personalized welfare and morale-building services for able-bodied men and programs of recreation for men in hospitals and aboard the hospital ships ''Repose"' and ''Sanctuary." Another 100, all young women trained in recreation center-club-mobile unit operation, present audience participation programs that bring wholesome moments of relaxation to servicemen. Welfare services to Americans in uniform in South Vietnam, as in other parts of the world, include counseling in personal and family problems, emergency communications, and emergency financial - assistance. Red Cross workers in hometown chapters obtain confidential information for the benefit of servicemen about personal and family emergencies relating to requests for leave, compassionate reassignment, and hardship discharges. They transmit messages about family health, births, and deaths at a rate of more than 650 daily to keep a line of communication open between home and South Vietnam. Each month, approximately 20,000 servicemen in Vietnam receive some type of assistance through the Red Cross. The American Red Cross is governed nationally and locally by volunteers. Most of the organization's duties are performed by volunteers. Red Cross volunteers in the United States serve in nursing homes, veterans hospitals, and schools for the mentally retarded, in motor pools, and in social welfare programs. Having someone to read or write a letter for him becomes something very special to a lonely disabled veteran. The help of a volunteer driver can make all the difference to an older person who otherwise could not keep a doctor's appointment. The Red Cross is financed entirely by voluntary contributions. As a voluntary organization, the Red Cross depends on the American people for support—both in volunteer time and in money. To keep Red Cross service at the high level which both the fighting man in Vietnam and his family at home have appreciated, and have come to expect, the need for continued support is critical this year. 190 Ma, €) er Ramona W. Cannon Women who are succeeding in helping to solve the problem of the acute shortage of nurses, are the twenty-eight ''mature'' women who recently received their diplomas from the Quo Vadis School of Nursing in Toronto, Canada, the only nursing school in the world designed for mature women.
