[Vol55 | March 1968 | Page 208 | Special Feature | Kalaupapa Place of Refuge Orlene | J. Poulsen]
Kalaupapa—Place of Refuge Latter-day Saint chapel. Two large lanais had been constructed, consisting of frame structures covered with palm fronds brightened here and there with poinsettias and hibiscus. Under the lanais, were long tables and benches, and here the luau was served, with one lanai for the patients and one for the non-patients. Then all present joined in singing. The sun was shining, the ocean was blue—and in Kalaupapa there was peace and happiness. Mary Sing came to Kalaupapa as a girl of seventeen, and it has been her home for fifty-one years. Here she met Jack Sing and married him. For thirty-five years they have been sweethearts, while giving of their time and talents to the Lord. Mary is the president of the Kalaupapa Relief Society, a position she has held for twenty-three years, and during most of this time she has also been the secretary. She joined the Church in 1928, and has been a Relief Society visiting teacher ever since, adding up to forty years of visiting service. Gentle and kind, with a quick sense of humor, she watches over the needs of the Relief Society members in the branch. It is not at all unusual to find on her monthly Relief Society report that 100 per cent visiting teaching has been done, or that many visits have been made to the sick. I shall never forget my first visit to Kalaupapa nor any of those since —for Kalaupapa is beautiful and unforgettable—there is a special spirit in that lovely place. 9 SOWING on rine Catherine B. Bowles \ *} What have you sent to the garden of God c= KR While you live here on this earthly sod? Y RP One kind act to one in need, Q lad One whispered word of love, \ The hungry soul you helped to feed With faith in him above. One broken heart was mended Of deepest sorrows there. Did you make the burden lighter With love that all may share? Did you soothe a tempest raging In a heart so sorely tried? And poured the balm of friendship Where love and faith abide? If so, you make your garden shine, Each plant, a token there, Will fill your heart with gratitude That in his presence you may share. 211 , i = The thought came to me as I was freshening up the guest room, that Mother's visits had always been timed, somehow, to coincide with crises in our lives. At first, there had been the almost yearly occasions when she came to help us settle in our newest baby. "IT guess you'd never come to see us,' Andy had said to her on one of these occasions, "if we didn't have a baby every year! Come to think of it, there must be a cheaper reason for a visit!" "It just gives me a good excuse—I'd come anyway—but don't you know a visit from her mother, a bit of pampering from her husband—and a new house coat are the only immediate rewards a girl gets for having a new baby?" Mother said, and we all laughed.