[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Annual Report—1942]

OBSERVANCE of the Relief Society centennial and increased participation in war services in addition to regular activities, characterized the work of the Relief Society during the year 1942. Adding new interest to the report and further means of more fully gauging the extent of Relief Society services are several new items of data collected for the first time in 1942, such as number of quilts made and number of funerals at which comfort and assistance was given, services which have characterized the work of the Society from its beginning, but which have never before been counted on a Church-wide basis. Unfortunately, complete records were not kept in all local Relief Societies of the newly required data, resulting in what is believed to be a considerable understatement of Relief Society services. Furthermore, because of limitations in shipping facilities incident to the war, current reports were not received from some of the distant missions in time for inclusion in the 1942 compilations. Therefore, figures in the annual report with respect to some of the long-time services and to all of the more recently instituted services relating to the Church Welfare Plan and to the war do not represent the full measure of the accomplishments. Nevertheless, the following statistical data give impressive evidence of the magnitude of the work accomplished. These facts are presented with full realization that they do not attempt to measure all the varied services of the Society to others, or the inestimable and intangible values to the members themselves which come from participation in Relief Society's two-fold program of education and service.

RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL

Constituting a part of this annual report is the comprehensive summary of the Church-wide celebration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Society which was published in The Relief Society Magazine for April 1942. This was followed by detailed reports of many of the local observances held in wards, stakes, branches, and missions which have since appeared in the Magazine as "Notes From the Field" in the issues of July, October, November, and December of 1942, and January, February, and March of 1943. The "Notes" in the issues for June 1942, and May 1943, relating to Relief Society choruses of Singing Mothers, should also be considered as a part of this series of centennial reports, as these choruses were extensively featured in centennial programs, concerts, pageants, tree plantings, and other services. The concluding memento of the centennial year was the publication in the fall of 1942 of "A Centenary of Relief Society," commemorating in picture and story the history and achievements of the Society during its first one hundred years. In the brief period between its publication and the end of the year, 10,298 copies of this handsome book had been purchased. Other personal centennial souvenirs, all of lasting value, had been bought in the following quantities: Relief Society membership pin, 6,677; plate depicting organization meeting, 1,452; and "A Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse," 972. In addition, the official centennial insignia in the form of seals or stickers had been ordered in the amount of 172,800 for attaching to programs of centennial observances, place cards, invitations, correspondence, et cetera. The annual reports showed a total of 874 centennial trees planted, of which 779 were permanently designated by means of a uniform bronze tree marker made available by the General Board.

WAR SERVICES

Relief Society organizations in the United States, constituting the majority of the 2,273 local Societies, undertook various activities related to the war effort during 1942, immediately after the United States became involved in war near the end of the preceding year. Most of the other countries where Relief Societies are located were already engaged in war, and the local Societies in those countries continued their efforts for the relief of war sufferers which were started as soon as their countries became involved.

CURTAILMENT OF TRAVEL

The first important change in Relief Society work in the United States due to the war was made with respect to curtailment of travel and reduction of attendant personal expenses, in conformity with recommendations of the First Presidency issued January 17, 1942, months prior to the rationing of gasoline and the restriction of automobile tires for civilian use. In applying the recommendations of the First Presidency to the Relief Society, the General Board on February 19, 1942, announced curtailment of supervisory functions involving travel as follows:
1. Discontinued regular monthly stake and ward officers' union meetings;
2. Discontinued the annual stake Relief Society conferences to which representatives of the General Board are sent;
3. Curtailed to instances of special need visits by General Board members to stakes, and by stake board members to local Relief Societies;
4. Cancelled the semi-annual general conferences of Relief Society in Salt Lake City, attended by delegates from all stakes of the organization.

In addition, it also postponed the elaborate central celebration planned for the observance of the centennial of Relief Society into which many months of planning and preparation had gone.

In order to help compensate for the curtailment of these supervisory activities, various suggestions and recommendations were made to help maintain and improve the standard of work despite these restrictions.

The effect of these changes is reflected in the annual report by a decrease of 70 per cent or nearly 1,000 stake and ward officers' union meetings, from 1,397 in 1941 to 419 in 1942, and by a reduction in visits to wards by stake board members of 1,196 or 16 per cent, from 7,454 in 1941 to 6,258 in 1942. The spirit in which these restrictions were accepted and the adjustments made by stakes to help maintain efficiency in the local Relief Societies with these two principal mediums curtailed are demonstrated in the following excerpts, typical of many, from narrative statements which accompanied the annual reports:

From Cottonwood Stake in Utah—Although we have held only one union meeting during 1942, we feel that the Relief Society work in our stake has grown and that we have had a successful year. We have missed our union meetings but find that the ward officers and class leaders have developed more initiative and are better able to shoulder responsibility.

From Long Beach Stake in California—Our stake board members contact the ward board members in their departments by mail every month. Outlines are sent by class leaders and general instructions by officers. A copy of these letters are submitted to our president and we discuss them in our regular monthly board meeting. The ward members likewise take their letters to their respective ward preparation meetings and in this way we try to have a unity of our work.

From Highland Stake in Salt Lake City—We greatly appreciate the splendid cooperation of our board members in contacting the wards since the discontinuance of union meetings. Both the board members and the ward class leaders and officers feel the loss of the contact made possible by those meetings, but all have cooperated in a very commendable manner in working out plans for their departments. We feel that our lessons this year have been most successful. Our board members have contacted the wards by telephone, by personal visits both to homes of class leaders and to the wards, and by sending through the mail written outlines and aids. We are very well pleased with the result of their efforts.

From Snowflake Stake in Arizona—Our annual fall visit to each ward was discouraging to undertake in 1942 as there were no private cars available due to war conditions. It looked like they must be discontinued. However, because of the reorganization of many wards, the stake board saw the need of the visits and met the emergency, though not in so comfortable a style as heretofore. The board members traveled on school busses, milk trucks, commercial busses, poultry trucks and whatnot, to reach the small Societies, sometimes staying overnight until transportation home could be found. But with the inconvenience they likely received more spirituality from the women than ever before, besides enjoying their home life and hospitality. It was a new experience and the sacrifice did good to all concerned.

SURVEY OF REGISTERED AND PRACTICAL NURSES

In February 1942, the General Board of Relief Society instituted a survey of registered and practical nurses in all local units in the United States and Canada, which ascertained not only the number of nurses but the number employed and unemployed, and the number available for additional service. Lists of these nurses are maintained in all local units and kept continually up-to-date, and copies are in the files of the stake officers. Tabulation of the returns for the Society as a whole revealed, among other interesting data, that several hundred women, in addition to those already employed, could give some nursing service, either full-time or part-time. It was found that the number of trained nurses, then unemployed, who could give full-time service could be increased but slightly, possibly due to age, health, or family responsibilities, that the number of trained nurses who could give part-time service could be more than doubled, that the number of practical nurses who could give full-time service could be doubled, and that practical nurses who could give part-time service could be trebled.

RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE LOAN FUNDS

Because of the greatly increased demand for trained nurses due to the war, the General Board of Relief Society during 1942 again directed attention to its two nurse loan funds—one for students at standard three-year hospital nurse training courses, and one to assist graduate nurses to take university public health nursing courses. These loan funds have been in constant use for twenty years. Furthermore, the General Board increased the maximum amount which could be borrowed for hospital nurse training from $75.00 to $300.00 per student in order to more nearly meet present costs of training.

RELIEF SOCIETIES SERVING AS RED CROSS SEWING UNITS

In February 1942, the General Board of Relief Society released a plan specifying steps to be taken by local Relief Societies desiring to function as Red Cross units for sewing and knitting, and recommended that Red Cross sewing be done in the regular monthly work meeting of the Relief Society in addition to the sewing ordinarily done for charitable purposes of the Society. Annual reports for 1942 indicate that this recommendation was followed generally throughout the Relief Society, but data as to amount of sewing and knitting accomplished in Relief Society meetings appear to be greatly understated because many local Societies failed to keep a full account of the work which was done. Nevertheless, the reports indicate that an average of nearly 8,000 women did Red Cross sewing or knitting in each of the monthly Relief Society work meetings, giving more than 100,000 hours to this volunteer service and completing for the Red Cross 38,381 articles. These figures relate only to Red Cross service in connection with Relief Society meetings. They do not include the service of thousands of Relief Society women who have also assisted at Red Cross sewing and surgical dressings centers, nor those who have assisted as Red Cross nurse aids, canteen workers, et cetera. In addition, the Relief Society continued its own sewing program and gave other extra sewing services incident to the war as mentioned below under "Sewing Service."

RED CROSS COURSES SPONSORED

Also in February 1942, the Relief Society recommended to its members everywhere other Red Cross classes and services, such as home nursing, first aid, nutrition, nurse aids, canteen service, et cetera. Supplementing this recommendation, the Relief Society has circularized local units in certain areas, as for example, in Salt Lake City, announcing and highly recommending specific Red Cross classes with the result that these classes have been immediately filled. In a bulletin released at the end of 1942, the General Board gave new emphasis to this recommendation, urging that as many women as possible take Red Cross first-aid and home-nursing classes so that they would be better prepared to care for their families and others in ordinary instances of illness and also in case of disaster or epidemic. This recommendation recognized the increasing curtailment of hospital and nursing service for civilians, and the necessity of depending to greater extent on home nursing. Local Relief Societies were advised, wherever feasible, to provide themselves with the necessary beds and other equipment for demonstration at such home-nursing classes in order to make classes available in immediate vicinities thus reaching a larger number of Relief Society members. It was also recommended that in war risk areas one woman in each stake be called to become a first-aid instructor in order to help make possible an increased number of local classes in Red Cross first-aid training. The 1942 reports show that at least 10,222 Relief Society women completed Red Cross courses during the year, 4,062 in first aid, 3,839 in home nursing, 1,761 in nutrition, and 620 in other subjects. Because of recommendations issued at the end of 1942, the year 1943 should show that an even greater number of women have completed Red Cross courses, particularly in first aid and home nursing.

OTHER PROVISIONS FOR FIRST AID AND HOME NURSING

Continuing the century-long interest and activity of the Relief Society in health and nursing, the General Board, at the end of 1942, issued printed circulars for distribution to every family in the Church, urging that every possible precaution be taken to preserve health through such means as proper nutrition, adequate clothing and bedding, and general care, and recommended that all families provide themselves with a family first-aid kit for use in case of disaster, accident, or household emergencies. At the same time all ward Relief Societies were asked to establish home-nursing supply chests, containing articles ordinarily needed for home nursing in case of sickness or disability, such articles to be either rented or loaned according to circumstances of families using the supplies. In this connection it is interesting to note from narrative reports from the stakes that the stake board and wards of at least one stake (Rexburg) had jointly purchased a second-hand hospital bed for home nursing purposes.

The plan for home-nursing supply chests was an extension of the recommendations issued twenty years earlier that Relief Societies maintain maternity bundles for renting or loaning for home deliveries, a service which is still in effect in some communities without hospital facilities. In addition, all Relief Societies considered themselves to be in war risk areas were asked to provide themselves with a ward first-aid kit, including quilts and blankets, and to make a house-to-house survey among Church families to list articles which could be made available upon call to the ward Relief Society president in case of an emergency entailing temporary housing other than in homes.

OTHER WAR SERVICES

During 1942, stake and ward Relief Society funds were invested in war bonds to the extent of $22,451.71. Representatives of the General Board of Relief Society and of stake and local Societies are serving on various state and local committees related to the war effort, including various Red Cross committees, Civilian Defense committees, state and local women's salvage committees, U.S.O. committees, state and local nutrition and food conservation committees, state and community health organizations, committees on war relief, and committees relating to day care for children of working mothers. In some areas direly needed assistance has been given in recruiting workers for harvesting and processing agricultural products.

Early in 1942, the Relief Societies in Salt Lake City conducted a house-to-house survey among members of the Society leaving registration cards for those able to make accommodations available for women and girls coming into the area for defense work. Hundreds of suitable homes were registered by this means; the service of personally inspecting the quarters offered and of making placements has been conducted by the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. The Relief Society has also cooperated with the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in other activities for the welfare of girls who leave home to take employment. In this connection, in December 1942, Relief Society visiting teachers left in every home with girls of M.I.A. age a printed "Message of Friendliness and Solicitation to the Mothers of the Church" containing timely advice, and encouraging girls away from home to affiliate with the M.I.A. in their new places of residence.

The Relief Society Magazine, monthly publication of Relief Society with a circulation of 57,000, carries frequent announcements relating to the salvage program, to the need for nurses, and articles interpreting the government's price control and rationing program. In addition, The Relief Society Magazine has carried a series of special articles by psychologists, social workers, and other specialists relating to wartime problems of both youths and adults. Two lesson courses in the 1942-43 series for Relief Societies throughout the United States were pertinent to the present situation—one course, presented on the fourth Tuesday of each month and entitled "What 'America' Means" related the history, development, and values of American democracy, using The American Citizens Handbook as a reference; another course for monthly consideration on the second Tuesday of the month was entitled "New Fashioned Thrift" and related to current up-to-the-minute news and suggestions for homemakers, particularly from the standpoint of conservation and consumer buying under present conditions, with special reference to articles curtailed by war needs.

RELIEF SOCIETY SERVICE UNDER CHURCH WELFARE PLAN

As part of their routine organization work, Relief Society women have, during the past five years, supported the Church Welfare Plan in extensive conservation and production work with respect to both food and clothing. They have cooperated wholeheartedly in the collection and contributing of great quantities of used clothing, in the making of hundreds of quilts and other articles of bedding, the weaving of rugs, the production of thousands of pieces of new clothing for men, women and children, the canning and drying of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables, and have helped to raise funds to meet Church welfare assignments in the form of cash. This service is being continued and is now recognized as a direct aid to the war effort.

In addition to the sewing service given in Relief Society meetings where 19,446 pieces of clothing were reported to have been made during 1942 for distribution through bishops' storehouses under the Church Welfare Plan, Relief Society women gave a total of 210,346 hours on other projects operated under the Church Welfare Plan, principally on production projects, either locally or at stake or regional sewing and canning centers. Of this total, 38,945 hours were reported as given by women whose families were receiving aid from the storehouses and 171,401 hours were given in volunteer service by women not receiving this aid.

USUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SERVICES CONTINUED

SEWING SERVICE

In addition to sewing done in Relief Society meetings for the Red Cross as already mentioned, the Relief Society continued its own sewing service, making quilts and articles of clothing for distribution to the needy, both direct and through the bishops' storehouses, making quilts to order as an accommodation to families desiring this service and as a means of building up Relief Society funds. Many Relief Societies extended their usual sewing service during 1942 in order to encourage families to provide themselves with adequate bedding, and carried forward plans for assisting families to do so. These plans included quilting by the Society without charge of one or more quilts for each member, and assistance with materials for those families who could not provide their own. In addition, many local Relief Societies arranged to relieve conditions incident to labor shortages at nearby hospitals by making paper bedside bags, hospital gowns, and other supplies. Some Relief Societies also made thousands of drapes for soldiers' club rooms and gave some sewing service for other community purposes. Altogether, an average of 21,000 women gave sewing service at the monthly work meetings for these various purposes, not including the work for the Red Cross, giving a total of nearly 282,000 hours to these activities. When combined with figures relating to Red Cross sewing service, it is found that an average of nearly 29,000 women gave sewing service at each monthly work meeting to the total extent of approximately 382,000 hours, during which 116,882 articles were completed. Of this total number of articles, the greatest number (38,381 or approximately one-third of the total) was made for the Red Cross, with 29,048 being made for Relief Society, 19,446 for bishops' storehouses, and 30,007 for hospitals and all other agencies. As to kind of articles made, clothing for children constituted the largest single group, numbering 25,323 articles. Next in importance were quilts numbering 13,034, followed by 10,141 pieces of women's clothing, 7,908 pieces of men's clothing, 4,610 pieces of other bedding, and 55,866 pieces of other articles including hospital supplies, drapes for soldiers' club rooms, and other miscellaneous articles.

COMPASSIONATE SERVICES

It is not possible to measure fully the extent of compassionate service given by Relief Society women in their communities. Only a few of the many ways in which they minister to those in sorrow and distress can be satisfactorily counted, but these few items serve to give some idea of the kind and extent of these services.

Special visits made to the sick and homebound by women representing the Relief Society were reported to be 116,006 in 1942. This count represented a decline of 74,000 visits or 39 per cent from the year 1941 which may be attributed to several factors including the possibility of less sickness. However, it is quite likely that the major part of this decline was due to renewed emphasis on counting only visits made in the name of Relief Society, with strict exclusion of visits made by Relief Society women to relatives or personal friends.

In addition to these visits to the sick, the Relief Society provided 15,083 full days' care of the sick. This item also declined from the previous year by 17,000 days or 54 per cent, reflecting either less sickness or greater unavailability of women to give this service because of increased employment and new war work. In 1942, for the first time, the count of days' care of the sick was segregated between volunteer and paid service. It was found that by far the greater proportion of days' care of the sick was volunteer service by Relief Society women, which accounted for 95 per cent or more than 14,000 of the 15,000 days' care given, whereas only 687 days or 5 per cent represented days' care of the sick by nurses or others to whom the Relief Society made payment for the service.

The total number of bodies prepared for burial by Relief Society women was 882, a decrease of 311 or 26 per cent from the count of 1,193 in 1941. In 1942, for the first time, the count of this service was segregated between bodies completely prepared for burial where services of morticians were unavailable, and bodies to which Relief Society women gave only the service of dressing. Complete preparation for burial was made by Relief Society women with respect to more than one-fourth of the bodies (252) whereas the service of clothing the body was provided in 630 instances. The 1942 count of number of funerals at which Relief Society women assisted was the first count of a service which Relief Society women have given from the beginning of the organization. This assistance was reported in connection with 4,315 funerals and consisted of service such as decorating the chapel, arranging floral offerings, and giving any needed service to bereaved families.

VISITING TEACHING

The number of monthly visits to families by Relief Society visiting teachers during 1942 totaled 1,196,168, a decrease of 75,235 or 6 per cent from the previous year. This decline is attributed principally to war transportation conditions. Early in 1942, the General Board released plans for dividing visiting teachers' districts into smaller sub-districts so that more homes would be within