[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT-STORY CONTEST 395 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MOST of the world's inhabitants hate war. Man's cupidity causes it. Man's stupidity permits it. All suffer its tragic consequences. Fortunately, however, some good comes of war. Like a refiner's fire, frequently it burns out the dross of human selfishness, leaving gold ingots of devotion, nobility, heroism. A task worthy of every woman's consecration is to carry into the post-war world virtues learned through today's vicissitudes, such as: the joy of having children (last year's birthrate in America doubled that of 1941, and this year's will be higher); the value of marriage and a home (half the girls in one war production plant admit they are hoping and saving for a home); the steadying power of physical work; the experiences of budgeting; the gratifications of practicing thrift; and the immense economy of cooperation, in home, community, national, and international life. War teaches us the comfort of faith in God; the necessity of human brotherhood; the fact that suffering can make us a little more God-like in comprehension. These are lessons to remember. MISS SHARLOT HALL, 72, Arizona poet of distinction, whose verse interprets western life, died April 9. CRY HAVOC, Allan Kenward's moving stage drama of American girl volunteer nurses huddled in a shelter in Bataan, carrying on the Page 396 eek a, ul N humor and heroism to their tragic doom is to be filmed. The cast is composed entirely of women. MIDWIFERY was one of the important and interesting phases of early Mormon colonization. Mrs. Claire W. Noall, by request, did exhaustive research and wrote a 30,000 word article, "Mormon Midwives," for the Utah State Historical Quarterly, 1942 volume. It has elicited favorable comment from physicians, psychologists, lawyers, historians, and authors principally men in various parts of America. Incidentally, the mother of Socrates, great Greek philosopher, was a midwife almost 500 B. C. DOCTORS R. A. Hingson and W.  B. Edwards (Americans) have devised a new technique for painless childbirth, entirely successful, apparently, and without the dangers of the former methods. THE Woman's Safety Council of Salt Lake City, only all-woman organization affiliated with the National Safety Council, in 1942 distributed 100 awards to careful women drivers, the first going to Miss Jean Home, one of Salt Lake's first women motorists, who has driven 1,000,000 miles without accident. Under Mrs. Laura M. Clark, president, and Mrs. W. T. Runzler, head of service department, the Council cooperates with civic and educational agencies in promoting public and traffic safety programs. EDITORIAL VOL. 30 JUNE-JULY 1943 NOS. 6 and 7 To Our "Father! to God Himself we cannot give a holier name."  Wordsworth TWO of the most hallowed words in any language are "father" and "mother," and around these names are associated memories among the most precious of this life. Of late years it has become customary to pay special honor to our mothers on the second Sunday in May, and to our fathers on the third Sunday in June. Happy the child, the youth, and the man or woman to whom the word "father" recalls a series of recollections brimming with the loving care and kindness bestowed upon him by his father. To such a person, memory reaches back to earliest years and treasured childhood experiences. These will vary, but how often, perchance, will one of these incidents be centered about the bedside of the sick, as the family kneels in prayer and the father, exercising one of his greatest prerogatives as the bearer of the Holy Priesthood, invokes the healing power upon the sick. Mingled with such important and sacred memories will be ones of a lighter nature, ones in which the father figures as a veritable mine crammed full of pennies and nickels, a haven of last resort in crucial times of need. A trip taken with a father always remains a bright and cherished mem-  W ordsworth. Ory. It may have been to a large city where it seemed that all the alluring and enchanting sights and sounds in the world were spread out before one's wondering gaze. One such trip to New York is recalled. Each morning one was awakened by father standing in the doorway of the hotel bedroom and quoting, "The bird of time has but a little way to fly and lo, the bird is on the wing." This reminder of the fast fleeting magic days worked as a charm! Associated with that special trip are recollections of a visit to the lower east side in order that a wholesome home might the better be appreciated; the wonders of the Hippodrome where the horses disappeared under the water; the magic of the Automat where one put in a nickel and food appeared in as wonderful a manner as any fairy tale; luncheon at the Astor with Hazel Dawn; and two trips to the Metropolitan to watch with fascinated eyes the dancing of Nijinski and the Russian Ballet. Golden pages from the book of memory of a father's kindness and generosity! Another happy recollection of a holiday spent with father is of a mountain camping trip which remains a vivid picture for two reasons: first, for the discovery that father was a good cook; and second, a not-so-pleasant Poge 397 remembrance of flesh gained from eating his skillet-bread. As one grows older, one more and more becomes conscious of the watchful and constant care evidenced by a father as the guardian of his children. Pitfalls and dangers are pointed out and all one's friends and associates are closely scrutinized. One feels at times that his premonitions and insight are too acute to be comfortable, but gradually as one's outlook broadens, his wisdom is recognized and his advice is followed with a better grace. His justice and fairness stand out as prominent traits, and his encouragement and understanding are ever sources of strength. One comes to turn to him more and more for counsel and in following it, one's life takes on a righteous pattern. After marriage, when one's husband becomes the father of one's children, then the cycle is completed. In noting the tender, constant, and great love manifested by a young father toward his babies and young children, one's appreciation for fatherhood is increased, and thanksgiving to the Lord wells up in one's heart for fathers such as these fathers who will be our fathers not only here but throughout time and all eternity as well. M. C. S. Personal Letters Protest Picturizatoon of Smoking and Drinking THE following letter is an example of the excellent personal letters sent by Relief Society women to Mr. Will H. Hays of the nation's film industry, protesting the picturization of smoking and drinking. Such letters from individuals and Relief Societies were suggested by the General Board of Relief Society in The Relief Society Magazine, January 1943, page 45, as a follow up of the letter sent by the general presidencies and superintendencies of Church auxiliaries. Dear Mr. Hays: As a young mother and an American citizen interested in the welfare of our youth, I protest the great and unnecessary use of alcohol and tobacco in motion pictures. In addition to holding up before young people false standards and ideals, so much drinking and smoking by their heroes and heroines, I believe, represents the characters falsely. I refer specifically to such pictures as The Thin Man series wherein Nick Charles drinks incessantly, and continually puffs on a cigarette and yet always is up to solving the crime brilliantly. People I have known who drink and smoke to an extreme are not lovable individuals and are not worth two cents in an emergency. It is my sincere hope in writing you that action can be taken to eliminate an evil which has a far-reaching effect upon the lives of our young people. Yours very truly, (Signed) Mrs. Helen A. Perkes