(Continued from page 376)
is indeed the work of God. Thousands of the youth owe their interest in the Church and their testimony to the activities of the Mutual Improvement Associations. Thousands, too, of young women have received a training which has prepared them to enter the Relief Society and give intelligent service there.
The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association desires to cooperate fully with the Relief Society. Cooperation has always been the insignia of success in all Church activities. The L. D. S. Ward is like one large family, with all the auxiliaries giving help in rounding out the lives of the individual members. The women's organizations are an integral part of this ward group, each providing for the different ages the programs and activities that help them build into ideal womanhood.
Never has there been greater need for these organizations, never has there been wider scope for their talents, and never has there been a more urgent call for them to work hand in hand to meet the problems which the girls and women of the Church are facing at the present period.
Our young people are surrounded by temptations and dangers far beyond those of normal times. The powers of evil, it would seem, are determined to overthrow righteousness and in no way can this be accomplished so surely as by bringing about the downfall of youth. The moral and spiritual welfare of our girls rests heavily upon us as their leaders, but we are cheered and heartened to know that we have the faith and assistance of the mothers in Israel and of all Relief Society workers throughout the Church. Only through our united effort and the blessings of the Lord can we hope to influence and hold our young people.
It is an honor to be included in this special woman's number of your Magazine. May this issue prove to be one more shining link in your historic chain of accomplishments.

SPEAKING on Maternity and the Changing Family Scene, Hazel Corbin of the Maternity Center Association, said:
We've got to get over this idea that being a housewife and mother is not an important task in life.... These mothers hold up the glorious traditions of America. They are striving against difficult odds to make home an attractive place for their children, to make it a safe place, a place of security and happiness in which their children are growing up and to which they will want to bring their friends.
Today there is no task more important than that. You see it is financial pressure as well as the pressure of public opinion that forces many a mother with young children into industry, and when that occurs the very foundations of her family, the very foundations of her children's security the things her husband is fighting for are destroyed.
Does anyone think that a mother can hold a full-time job in a war factory, under the pressure of more, more, more, faster, faster, faster, and properly care for her family at the same time? From The Child, May 1943 p. 165, monthly bulletin of the Children's Bureau, U. S Department of Labor.

Wherever they go, whatever they do, the gift of a Bible and the one who gave it will always be remembered. For a Bible is the lasting gift of lasting love.
