[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the Home]

JUNE-JULY 1943
Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
ONE phase of the Relief Society teaching program is the individual teaching done in the homes by the visiting teachers. This type of teaching can be one of the most effective and impressive ways of teaching, and when properly done, brings excellent results. It follows the pattern of the Master Teacher of all. Jesus talked with individuals; "he sat with little groups of people engaged in quiet conversation, listening to their remarks, answering their questions, putting them perfectly at their ease, but at the right moment crystalizing the whole discussion into some great guiding truth."
The visiting teacher has the opportunity of reaching some individuals who do not come under the influence of the class leader who presents a formal lesson in a Relief Society meeting. Her teaching is very informal: she establishes a friendly relationship, finds a common meeting ground by telling a little story, relating an interesting incident, asking a pertinent question or even by requesting a favor that one would be pleased to grant. After this friendly relationship is established, she launches into a discussion of her message through a friendly exchange of ideas or opinions. The hostess is encouraged to talk, and due consideration is given to her ideas. If, for some reason, the hostess is not receptive to a discussion of the subject, a concise and well-formed statement of the message is more effective than a longer presentation. However, the needs of each home differ, and if the visiting teacher offers something that meets a need in the life of an individual, that person will usually listen. The fact that the visiting teacher recognizes the need in a home should not be obvious. If the visiting teacher is sincere, earnest, and prayerful in planning the delivery of the message, she will influence for good the lives of those she visits.
At the regular monthly teacher-training meeting the class leader should keep in mind the great objective of the message; and applying her knowledge of the underlying principles of good teaching, she should aid the visiting teachers in their presentation of these spiritual truths in the homes they will visit by a well-prepared discussion of the subject, and by suggestions on how to present this material when making their visits.
"Sources of Strength" has been chosen as the title for the messages to the home during the two years, 1943-44 and 1944-45. There is almost a universal call during this time of disillusionment, sacrifice, and loss of loved ones, for faith and fortitude to carry on valiantly. There is a constant seeking for sources of courage and strength. This course has been planned to supply this need and should be very acceptable in all Latter-day Saint homes.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
For the ensuing Relief Society educational year 1943-44 the following topics are planned:
1. A Firm Belief in God As a Source of Strength. Nothing can give the feeling of peace and security and belief in the ultimate triumph of good as does implicit trust in our Heavenly Father. A firm belief in God gives one the courage to live a normal and happy life.
2. Ordered Living as a Source of Strength. A well-planned life avoids waste of time, inefficiency, and worry. It insures doing the essential things and aids one in maintaining high standards. It is a source of strength.
3. Freedom of Choice as a Source of Strength. Free agency is a basic principle in man's development. One grows strong by making right decisions for oneself.
4. The Development of Strength Through Work. Work contributes to health, wealth, and happiness. It is a panacea for many of the ills of life, a release from mental or emotional strain. There is joy in work well done and in the creations of one's own hands and brain.
435
5. Cooperation as a Source of Strength. An individual may accomplish very little by himself, but by combining his efforts with others he may become powerful and effective. He must learn to get along with others, to be unselfish, loyal, and considerate, and willing to work for the common good rather than for personal interest alone.
6. Companionship as a Source of Strength. Everyone needs companions who call forth the best in him, who impart hope, courage, and confidence. Good books may also be inspiring and strength-giving companions.
7. Loyalty as a Source of Strength. Loyalty is being true to one's best self, to one's ideals, to friends, to country, and to God. It is a primary element in every great and noble character.
8. Love as a Source of Strength. Love is a divine quality. It enriches and ennobles the individual. Love has great power. The Master asked that man love his enemies and do good to those who despitefully use him.
Lesson 1 A Firm Belief in God
(Tuesday, October 5, 1943)
INDIVIDUALS are made strong to endure and to overcome through a firm belief in God. This belief is an unfailing source of comfort and encouragement, a quality much needed in these times. This torn and troubled world needs the assurance that God lives and reigns On High, that He holds in His hands the destiny of men and nations, and in His own time and in His own way He will see that justice is meted out and that righteousness is rewarded. The world needs the assurance that He can hear and answer the appeals of His children; it needs that simple and beautiful faith which enables people to walk with perfect confidence through the mist and shadows of doubt and despair, trusting in the wisdom and goodness of God to lead where the light of reason does not
436
always penetrate; the faith which sees a divine purpose running through the stern and often bitter experiences of life; that sublime faith which sustained Job in the hour of his great affliction and enabled him to say: "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him."
This faith fortifies and strengthens one in the hour of need. It fills the heart with hope and the will with resolution. Through this faith people have achieved almost superhuman things. The Scriptures abound with examples of it, and history is full of proofs of its powers.
A Latter-day Saint boy in the United States Navy was asked a question of this import: "Isn't the Navy the most dangerous field of service?" He replied that he did not know, and said: "I've been taught by my mother that the Lord could hear my prayers as well on the water as He could on the land. If I lose my life, it will be in a good cause; and I've always been taught that the next world is a better one than this. So why should I worry?"
How to build up this confidence in the Creator is an important question which has a clear and definite answer. The Lord has declared through His prophets that "Those
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943
who do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrines." This applies to the humblest as well as the mightiest. The only way one can have a perfect knowledge that God lives is through keeping His commandments. The good and great men of the past, the men who have achieved nobly for mankind, have been men with a firm faith in God. Such men were Washington, Lincoln, Joseph Smith and others, leaders of the Latter-day Saints.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion
It is suggested that consideration be given to the best ways of presenting this message in the various homes.
1. How does a firm belief in God give strength to the individual?
2. Name activities that build faith.
3. Give examples from the Scriptures of the power of faith; from present-day experiences.
References
Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, p. 636-643
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, pp.