[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Agnes McMillan Bolton]
Rimsky-Korsakoff: Scheherazade Suite Agnes McMillan Bolto Edna J. Gardiner HE recent appointment of Agnes McMillan Bolto to the General Board brings to this group a member well qualified to fill her new assignment. Many years of continuous activity and service in the Relief Society of the Church have broadened the scope of her endeavors and endeared her to the people among whom she has served. Her life and character reflect her Scotch-English parentage. Her father, William McMillan, was of Scotch extraction, although he was born in England of Latter-day Saint parentage. Faith in God and His people inspired the McMillans to come to Utah. They made their home in the Twenty-second Ward of Salt Lake City and when the Twenty-second Ward was divided and the Twentyeighth Ward created, Brother McMillan became the first bishop of the Twenty-eighth Ward, presiding over it for twenty-three years. His wise counsel endeared him to his people and was a source of inspiration and guidance to his children. He was politically active and served three terms in the state legislature, holding positions of importance and authority for many years. Sister Bolto's mother, the daughter of Benjamin Smith Newton, of Newcastle, England, was a homemaker, presiding with dignity and justice in the affairs of home life. She was a devoted wife and mother, sustaining her husband in his public duties. She gave diligent and faithful AGNES M. BOLTO service in the Relief Society, particularly in welfare work. She was known and loved for acts of kindness among the sick and needy, serving for days at a time during epidemics. Agnes McMillan Bolto, the fourth child, was born in Salt Lake City, September 27th, 1887. Her early training in a home influenced strongly by religious precept and example, has greatly augmented her naturally spiritual temperament. Her activity in the Church began at the age of fourteen, as secretary of the ward Primary. When only seventeen, she was set apart as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple, acting in this capacity for ten years. Page 383 384 She was a member of the Tabernacle choir, under both Evan Stephens and Anthony C. Lund, contributing freely of her musical talent in solo work as well as group singing. Professor Stephens accorded her the distinction of being the foremost contralto in Utah. She accompanied the choir on its northwest tour in 1909, and later, with her husband, George F'. Bolto, went with the choir to New York. Being called to sing in the Temple choir by Prof. J. C. Thomas, she was often selected to sing duets with President Heber J. Grant. Those were happy years, endowing her richly with spirituality and contributing to her training. She was united in marriage to George F. Bolto in 1910, and they made their home in the Third Ward in Salt Lake City, where Sister Bolto faithfully participated in ward activities. She presided over the Junior Sunday School, was president of the Primary Association for three years, and was assistant choir leader. During this time she also organized, under the presidency of Lotta Paul Baxter, the first Relief Society chorus in Liberty Stake. In 1917, the Boltos moved to Richards Ward, Granite Stake, in Salt Lake City, where she continued to participate actively in Church work, serving first as secretary of the Relief Society and later as stake chorister, under Sister Leonora T. Harrington. She attended the first course in family welfare work conducted by the General Board at the Brigham Young University in 1920 under the leadership of Amy Brown Lyman. Later she served for six months as a field worker of the social] 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
