[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Tomorrows Cup Chapter Redd]

Sheldon,"
Tomorrow's Cup
Anna Prince Redd
Chapter IV
Synopsis: Janet, protectingly reared in Washington, D. C., lives in constant dread of the San Juan country of Utah where her husband, Paul Morgan, has an Indian trading post on the mesa. She plans on their moving to Washington before the birth of her baby, but does not disclose this intention to her husband. Upon returning home with Paul after a happy week spent on the mesa, they find that Janet's sister, Rhae, and her husband Warren Newsbaum, have arrived for a short visit with the announced intention of taking Janet back to Washington with them. The next morning Paul is hurt when he saves Warren from being dragged by a broncho.
Except for Juanee, there wasn't a soul within fifteen miles of the trading post. Paul, Indian Joe, Juanee's husband, and the rest of the ranch outfit were out on the winter range getting ready for the spring roundup. An open winter and months of warm rains had kept the range in good shape; cattle were rolling fat; steers would be ready for the market weeks ahead of time. Paul had little time for anything else. But being alone had long since ceased being a terror to Janet. There was so much to be done before the coming of the baby that she had no time for worry or unpleasant thoughts. Even the country seemed less appalling. Since the day, months ago, when Caesar had almost killed Paul, she had known she could never leave El Toro unless Paul came, too. There would never again be any doubt of that, but she still clung to the thought that someday she would win him away. But now, after the long slow months of his recovery, Paul seemed more entrenched than ever. As soon as he was well enough to be out on the range again, he had plunged into an orgy of buying and selling that frightened her. If he became too involved, he would be less easily uprooted; less inclined to turn things over to an overseer as she meant him to do. Seeing him lying there with broken bones and helpless, idle hands, she had said over and over again that only his life mattered. Where she lived or what she did was unimportant. She smiled, now, at the thought of how Rhae and Warren even the nurse and the specialist that Warren had imported to care for Paul had conspired to get her to terminate what they called her self-inspired martyrdom, using her condition as the hatchet over her head. "I'll go to a hospital if Paul is well enough to go with me," she had promised them, and nothing they could say had changed her mind. "I could have a specialist come here, couldn't I? Just as you came to Paul, Dr. Meade." "Having a baby out of a hospital is impossible!" Rhae cried indignantly. "Father would not hear of such a thing. Mother always had the best hospitals."
Page 401
402
"Yet mother died." Janet replied softly. "And Juanee was confined right here in her hogan back of El Toro and nothing happened at all." Then brightly: "Except that she presented the reservation with its first twins in fifty years!" "You make me sick!" Rhae scorned. "How can you talk like that? You'd think you were a common common " "Squaw? Or one of the dozens of fine women I know here in the desert?" Janet was positively delighted at the strength of her own arguments. She had almost believed them herself! Thinking of it now it didn't seem so funny. She'd go to a hospital of course. Paul wouldn't hear of anything else, they'd planned that as soon as they were alone, and he was well enough to sit out in the patio and talk. But, though Paul was coming home to go to Washington with her, she didn't want to go at all. She sighed. El Toro was so lazy and comfortable. Facing the old life again after nearly four years of isolation, was a bit terrifying. She'd probably shy from a train as range horses did from an automobile! And she didn't even have fashionable clothes. But that, too, was easily remedied. With money to burn if she wanted it, she could buy to her heart's content. Juanee came in with a log for the fire. Janet held up the tiny dress she was embroidering. "How does that look, Juanee? Isn't it adorable?" "It is too white. It is too small. My twin boys would spoil that in one minute. Mister Paul will be home tonight. He will say you should buy Levis for a boy!"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943
"Yes, he would. He has named the child already. It's to be Jerry. I call him Paul." "You better start thinking up names in case a girl comes." "Juanee, don't you go predicting a girl. Paul would be devastated." "But you love what comes. Huh? Mister Paul, too." "You're a great comfort, Juanee. You have better sense than most women." Juanee smiled broadly. "Miss Janet nice woman, too!" Janet laughed. "Thanks Juanee. How are the twins? Do they like being at the school?" "Not now. Soon they will, just like their papa and mama did. Are we not warm and comfortable here with you because of the school? My begays will learn to like the school." "It must be grand to have twins!" "Oh, yes! You like to have twins?" Janet laughed in surprise. "Oh, no, Juanee. One is all I could manage. I'd be scared to death of two!" "You have two big loves or one big love. You give me two dollars or one dollar, I take two dollars!" Juanee brushed the last spark from the hearth and went back to her work.