[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: On Enlarging the Soul Schreiner]

Page 379
On Enlarging the Soul With Music
Elder Alexander Schreiner Salt Lake Tabernacle Organist
IF I were rich I would surround myself with the works of great men, the geniuses in literature, in music, and in art. I would pamper myself with books in bright bindings, with music in its richest splendor, and with paintings, architecture, and sculptures in their most exalted forms. I would marvel not only at the great works in nature, the brilliant sun and the mysterious stars in the firmament, creations of God, the Father of all, but I would wonder also, and feel humble, before the ennobling treasures of beauty which inspired sons of God, geniuses among men, have left for all mankind to enjoy. Through the eyes and ears of these rare composers of beauty, I would see and hear at this very moment some small inkling of the beauties of a heaven which is to come. I would have some real reason for feeling that the works of God are marvelous and beyond human understanding, because even the works of some of His earthly sons are of no small glory and magnificence.
No doubt many a great man has been at a loss to account for the source of inspiration which empowered him to accomplish wonderful things; and many, if they were God-fearing men, have fallen upon their knees in prayers of thanks to Divine Providence for their natural endowments enabling them to bring knowledge and beauty into the world through their scholarship, art, or other useful endeavors.
Page 380
Among musicians, there were at least two men who expressed themselves in words as to the mysterious source of their creations. When Handel had finished writing his oratorio, The Messiah, in the feverish haste of twenty-four days, he thought that the angels of heaven must have whispered the music into his ears, because he felt he could not of himself alone have written music of such power and grandeur. Those of us whose souls vibrate with the strains of Handel's music can well sympathize with the feelings in the heart of this great composer.
Richard Wagner also felt that he was a privileged soul to be able to write masterpieces of supreme dramatic power. He, too, felt that he must have some unknown access to the harmonies of the spheres, because his works seemed to be of a greater stature, and of more splendor than of a mere man.
However, it is my personal feeling that men of genius have greater powers within themselves than they may realize. I believe that God largely allows His earth children to follow their own divinely inherited intelligence in the working out of their problems and the creation of the beauties of their environments. The fact that Handel and Wagner were able to produce heretofore unheard of beauties is merely evidence that mortal man is of the spiritual lineage of Divine royalty. In other words, a child of God inherits some of the great creative powers of the Creator
ON ENLARGING THE SOUL WITH MUSIC
Himself. The amazing genius of a human mind thus explains itself.
What a privilege it is to become acquainted with the creations of the masters. It strengthens the tie between man and God. The immortality of the fruits of great minds is one of the choicest blessings bestowed upon mankind.
Goethe, who was literally a fountain of genius, buried himself with the works of great minds, not only book literature and music literature, but paintings as well.
"If I were rich I would surround myself with the works of great men." We are living in an era when this statement may be changed to read as follows: "Though I am poor, I can surround myself with the works of great men." Present-day advertising has made material goods so attractive that there has been a tendency to crowd out the enjoyment of the creations of great souls, the cherished treasures of all time. At this moment we are facing new circumstances. With world war devouring economic wealth, it would seem wise for us to seek the acquisition of non-material riches and beauties which cannot be taken away from us.
POOR people today can own a larger library of books than did wealthy readers of a century or more ago. What about music? Here we come to an entirely new development in our civilization, something rather startling and wonderful to experience. The modern phonograph with its recorded treasures offers an acquaintanceship with the symphonies of the greatest music creators of every period, performed by the skilled music interpreters of our day, and
381
brought into our homes by one of the miracles of modern science. The phonograph is a tri-combination of phenomenal magnitude. Two centuries ago the royalty of Europe entertained itself with an abundance of good music. Prominent musicians of that day were engaged to perform, to compose, and to direct court orchestras, because music was as much a part of the daily routine as was the evening repast that preceded it. Crowned heads were as proud of the music offered in their courts as they were of any of their tangible possessions. 'This demand for music was a great stimulus to the musicians of that day and resulted in a flowering of the art of composition. It fanned the creative genius of Bach and Handel, of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. 'These men brought the art of music to a climax under the lavish patronage of European court life. 'This splendid heritage is no longer the exclusive property of an aristocracy, for it ls now conveniently available to anyone who cares to. Accept it. With the whole world in a most trying condition, music is like the north star, something we can trust and have faith in, something which has dropped to us as out of the blue of heaven to console and delight our hearts. But the reader may object that he is not inclined toward music which is of the grand manner. I believe with Shakespeare that every good child of God really has music in him, though it may not have been awakened. Several years ago a friend of mine was persuaded to attend his first symphony concert. He was not greatly interested, but a spark in him 382 was aroused so that today he is one of the most ardent enthusiasts on music that I know. He has discovered that real music is not composed of trivial tunes, but is something of genuine grandeur. Music has opened a new avenue of joy in his life. The phrase "get acquainted with music, you might like it" is an experiment that is almost certain to have a happy ending. We enjoy things and people and places that we know. The more we expand our interests, the more fully we partake of the God-given treasures that are a part of the design of our personal destiny and fulfillment. The first step in the understanding of music is exposure to it. We must hear it, we must become acquainted with it, we must learn to recognize it, then we will admire it, appreciate it, love it. The phonograph offers a most convenient and sure method for carrying out this formula. It makes possible frequent repetitions that will lead to the same familiarity with the classics that exists with the folk songs and popular melodies of childhood. We all love the tunes that are sung in community gatherings, the lullabys, the Christmas 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 JUNE-JULY 1943 carols, the negro melodies. When we become equally well acquainted with the works of the masters of music, our ceiling of appreciation will rise and expand to heights that bring undreamed of joy. The Apostle Paul said, "When I was a child, I spake as a child." Adults who have neglected the beauties of music literature are as children musically. Aristotle uttered a wise recommendation when he said, "Let the young pursue their studies. In music until they are able to feel delight in noble melodies and thythms, and not merely in that common part of music in which every slave or child and even some animals find pleasure." After more than two thousand years, Aristotle's advice is still pertinent. If we seek after the ways of strong men, we partake of their virtues and nobleness. May music, the universal language, open up a new chapter of joy in our lives. Families who in former years were avid collectors of sets of books are now collecting albums of recorded music. Great music has quite as much aesthetic significance as volumes of "belles-lettres." Suggested List of Recordings for Beginners 1. Dvorak: New World Symphony 2. Beethoven: Fifth Symphony a Johann Strauss: Tales of the Vienna Woods 4. Tschaikowsky: Nutcracker Suite 5. Prokofieff: Peter and the Wolf 6. Schubert: Unfinished Symphony 7. Tschaikowsky: Fifth Symphony 8. Wagner: Wagnerian Excerpts g. Debussy: Afternoon of a Faun 10. Mozart: Symphony in G Minor 11. Mendelssohn: Violin Concerto in E Minor 12.