[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: RELATIONSHIP OF THE Y W M I A TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY]
RELATIONSHIP OF THE Y. W. M. I. A. TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY
(Continued from page 376)
is indeed the work of God. Thousands of the youth owe their interest in the Church and their testimony to the activities of the Mutual Improvement Associations. Thousands, too, of young women have received a training which has prepared them to enter the Relief Society and give intelligent service there.
The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association desires to cooperate fully with the Relief Society. Cooperation has always been the insignia of success in all Church activities. The L. D. S. Ward is like one large family, with all the auxiliaries giving help in rounding out the lives of the individual members. The women's organizations are an integral part of this ward group, each providing for the different ages the programs and activities that help them build into ideal womanhood.
Never has there been greater need for these organizations, never has there been wider scope for their talents, and never has there been a more urgent call for them to work hand in hand to meet the problems which the girls and women of the Church are facing at the present period.
Our young people are surrounded by temptations and dangers far beyond those of normal times. The powers of evil, it would seem, are determined to overthrow righteousness and in no way can this be accomplished so surely as by bringing about the downfall of youth. The moral and spiritual welfare of our girls rests heavily upon us as their leaders, but we are cheered and heartened to know that we have the faith and assistance of the mothers in Israel and of all Relief Society workers throughout the Church. Only through our united effort and the blessings of the Lord can we hope to influence and hold our young people.
It is an honor to be included in this special woman's number of your Magazine. May this issue prove to be one more shining link in your historic chain of accomplishments.
