[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Poem | Title: Contest Contest Announcements Contest]

Our Destiny Garrison, Stars and Stripes Contest Announcements Gliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. The contest for 1943 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1943. The contest is open for a longer period this year than heretofore, and closes one month earlier. Each of the three prizes for the contest has been increased five dollars. Awards for 1943 will be as follows: First prize...........$20 Second prize................$15 Third prize..............$10 Prize poems will be published in the January 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The object of the contest is to stimulate poetry writing among Latter-day Saint women, to encourage high standards of work, and to deepen appreciation for this form of creative writing. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. No definite subject is recommended for the poems submitted in this year's contest. Rules governing the contest are published herewith: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.. The poem should not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks, and without attached explanatory material, pictures, et cetera.. Only one side of the paper should be used. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which should be wnitten the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. A statement should accompany the poem submitted certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. Page 393 394 g. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, 10. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 JUNE-JULY 1943 and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. The poems must be submitted not later than September 15. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 11. 12.