NOTES AND NEWS.

MRS. FANNY Fairchild Bryant, wife of
the great poet, was born in 1797, and died
in 1868.  She was described by her hus-
band "An humble disciple of Christ, ex-
emplary in every relation of life, affection-
ate, sympathetic, and cincere, and ever oc-
cupied with the welfare of others."
MISS EMILY Platt, niece of Presid
Hayes, was recently married at the Whit[-]
House to Gen. Russell Hastings, formerly
Lieut. Col. of the President's old regiment.
The wedding was strictly private--the
bride and Mrs. Hayes being far too sensi-
ble to sanction the foolish display so much
in vogue in fashionable life on similar oc-
casions--EX.
 WE HAVE received several numbers now
of the "English woman's Review," pub-
lished in London.  It is in pamphlet form,
and contains fifty pages of solid reading
matter.  It is devoted to woman's advance
ment, and contains speeches of dist
guished people on suffrage, its influence
and tendencies, women occupying offices,
medical women, women as lawyers, school
superintendents and professors of various
kinds, their capabilities and needs.  It
gives one good ideas of progressive work
in Italy, France and all the larger kingdoms
and dominions in Europe.  Reviews of
noted books, etc.
 Who shall say that the age of the pro-
phets is over, when Barbanera, the Appen-
nine astrologer, foretold the deaths of Vic-
tor Emmanuel and the Pope, and when
the still more famous and ancient prophecy
about Constantinople is being fulfilled?
The latter dates from the middle of the
15th century, and runs thus:--
In twice two hundred years the Cross
The Crescent shall assail,
But if the Cook and Bull unite
The Bear shall not prevail.
But, lo! in twice ten years again,
Let Islam know and fear,
The Cross shall wax, the Crescent wane,
Grow pale and disappear.
The first half of the prophecy was, of
course, fulfilled in the Crimean War, when
the Cock (Gallus Gaul) united with John
Bull against the Russian Bear.  It was just
"twice ten years" after the peace of 1856
that the insurrection broke out in Herzego-
vina, which was the beginning of what
promises to be the end of Turkey in Eu-
rope.--Selected.


