EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Good health generally prevails in camp.
Our canal is nearly finished, and we hope
soon to get ourselves established on our
own property once more. We will then be
about five miles from the river, and about
twenty  miles north-east of the Pimo and
Maricopa villages on the Gila, the same at
which the "Battalion boys" spent New-
Year's Day, when they passed through this
country. The Indians have mostly desert-
ed the Gila, it having sank or dried up two
or three years since; this is frequently the
case with small streams in this country.
Upon being told while traveling, that we
should cross a certain river to-day, the first
question that presented itself would be is
there water in it? Ths Indians visit us
frequently, but are not such persistent beg-
gars as the Utes, although they do not re-
fuse anything offered. We hope to benefit
them by precept and example. We hold
Sabbath meetings under a large tree; the
brethren are taking measures to organize a
Sabbath School. We have a day school in
successful operation, taught by Miss Zulie
Pomeroy, with about twenty pupils, so you
see we do not mean to have Arizona too far
behind other Territories in the next school
reports. The Mexicans are mostly Catho-
lic, their graves are all ornamented with a
cross, sometimes rude and uncouth, but al-
ways in the form of a cross. They seem to
be satisfied with what they have and seek
nothing further.
	It is rumored that the Apaches have bro-
ken away from their reservation on the
Little Colorado, and are doing some mis-
chief to ranchemen and stock, however we
do not anticipate any trouble with them.
Some of the brethren have been here from
the settlement on the San Pedro, and re-
port things there in a prosperous condition.
	Our town site is selected: It is a beauti-
ful location for a town, there will be no
need of grading for street-car tracks it is so
level and smooth, not even rocks or gravel.
They are talking of calling it Montezuma,
but 'tis not decided.
	We all feel to acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in bringing us here. Wishing to
be remembered kindly to all inquiring
friends, I remain yours, etc.,
