ADDRESS TO Y. L. M. I. A.

	We are now called a Mutual Improve-
ment Association; this name should be car-
ried out in our daily walk and conversation,
and we should show by our works what
we profess to be. Let us spend our time
in usefulness, in something that will refine
and elevate, so that we may be bright and
shining lights in the church and kingdom
of God, and that our names may be held in
honorable remembrance for generations to
come. Let us take care of the minutes and
the hours will take care of themselves; but
how many minutes we let pass by unim-
proved, not thinking that we will some day
have to give an account of every minute
that we lose. We are placed here on earth
to work for an eternal inheritance and then
return to God from whence we came and
dwell with Him throughout endless eterni-
ties. My young sisters is not this enough
to spur us up to our duties and inspire us to
improve the talents God has given us?
Can we assist to build up Zion by sitting
down and folding our hands? No, we must
arouse ourselves and put on the "armor of
faith" for without it we can do nothing; we
can do more towards rolling on this work
than we realize, we can assist in building
Temples to the Most High, we can also use
our influence for good at all times and sus-
tain those who are placed over us with our
faith and prayers; we can uphold every

[Column 2]

principle of our religion and not allow our-
selves to speak lightly of anything that God
has revealed, for in so doing we grieve the
Spirit of God and it will be withdrawn from
us, then we will be left to grope our way in
the dark; we can also assist in binding the
power of Satan by uniting ourselves togeth-
er, and overcoming all things that are not
pleasing in the sight of God. My young
sisters let us appreciate the privileges we
have, and thank God that our spirits have
been reserved to come forth in this day and
dispensation, when the gospel has been
brought in its fulness never more to be tak-
en from the earth; and that we have been
made recipients of the same. When we
look around and see our brothers and sisters
relatives and friends that have not been
favored of God as we have, it makes our
hearts ache, and wish that we could do
something to bring them to a knowledge
of the truth, but God's ways are not our
ways, and with him all things are possible.
How earnest, we should be in living our re-
ligion, and putting away everything that
will retard our progress in this great work.
Girls let our aim be noble and our thoughts
pure, and our thoughts be drawn out to
God at all times, that he will keep us from
dangers seen or unseen, and that we may
have strength to resist the Tempter's pow-
er, for it is strong if we are not guarded
against it; we cannot depend on our own
strength for it is frail, "let him that stand-
eth take heed lest he fall. This shows us
that we must put our dependence in God,
that we can do nothing without his aid and
assistance, but how often we forget this and
take the praise to ourselves. Let us re-
solve each day of our lives to live nearer to
the Lord, and if we fail try again and nev-
er weary in well-doing, that our lives may
be such, that we may be worthy of the
name Latter-day Saints.
	MISS JOSEPHINE MEYER.
11th Ward, S. L. City, June 17, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
