HOLIDAY THOUGHTS.
	Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire
once more, and bedecked herself profusely with
gay colors, and on every side one notes immedi-
ately that Christmas is at hand.  The stores and
shop-windows are almost too full for display,
though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the
arrangement of Christmas goods.  The children
are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they
pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys
and playthings, on exhibit.  What a contrast the
streets present now to thirty years ago, and how
the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus
supplies for their indulgence.
	One cannot help an occasional feeling that after
all there may be a little over-doing in the way the
children celebrate Christmas now-a-days.
	There seems to be an extreme forcing itself 
upon this community in this, as in many other
respects in the present day, and we are all more
or less willing to float along with the popular cur-
rent, rather than attempt any positive reform.
Latter-day Saints should be wise and cautious in
every matter that will have a bearing upon the
education and character of their children.  It is
the tendency of this particular age or period of
time to run after pleasure to indulge in things that
if not radically wrong, lead in that direction.
	This people are living in a most important era
of the world when a great work and a wonder is
to be wrought, and it will hardly be the over-fed
and uncontrollable children who cry for and de-
mand every bauble they see, that will be qualified
and prepared to bear off the kingdom victoriously:
If so it will be contrary to any principle yet known.
Jesus said,  "He that would be like unto me let
him take up his cross and follow me."
	If in the midst of the abundance of worldly 
goods, simplicity of style and manner of living
and dressing could be judiciously exercised, truer
happiness would be found than in the super-
abundance of those things that are neither good
for young or old. The saints are following the
customs of modern Christendom, instead of com-
plying with the laws of life and health and giving
heed to the knowledge that will tend to life
eternal.
	It is a blessed thing to stop sometimes, and take
a little recreation, and contemplate the condition
and circumstances which surround the community
in which we live; and to hold communion with
those of one’s household, this is heavenly. If it
were not for these days set apart for such re-
unions the family ties would not be as closely
riveted as they are; this is what sweetens life, and
makes the bitter portion many drink to the very
dregs, more palatable, and gives zest to senti-
ment and strength to the affections.
	Children do not have too much love, not even
on Christmas, no it is not that,but they very often
have too many toys and sweetmeats. How many

[Column 2]
﻿little children are there in the world who long
more earnestly for real love, than they do for
aught else; there is no comfort or luxury will
supply its place even in the heart of a little child
There is more happiness because of love than
from any other gift.
	The Savior has taught many lessons of love in
the New Testament, and enjoined upon the saints
to love one another. It is natural to seek the happi-
ness of those we love, to spare no pains, to grudge
no self-denial on our part, and this we should
teach to the children. Above all else mothers
tell the little ones a story on Christmas, and let it
be a true one, that will always be remembered.
Who knows where we, or they may be when
Christmas comes again? Therefore make the day
one of contentment and peace, of gladness and re-
joicing not only to our own, but to those who are
suffering or bowed down with care or sorrow.


