THE FAIRY MOTHER.

I sat me down to-night, to sing a song,
	A Christmas song of other days methought,
The wind was blowing furiously along—
	And as the muse beseechingly I sought,
I heard some voices whispering soft and low,
And then I listened, curious you know! 		

Ah, well-a-day I thought, perchance I’ll hear  
	Some fancy for my song, some secret spell;
A fairy may be lingering very near,
	Or blithesome wind some wondrous tale may tell;
A little story one can weave in rhyme,
And sing to children, at the Christmas time.

And as I pondered lo, a change of scene,
	Yet the bold wind kept up its music too.
And now with Santa Claus a radiant queen
	Enters the room robed in a sapphire blue,
He with his furs and baskets loaded down.
She simply clad in cloak and flowing gown. 

I wondered why she went about like this,
	And kept herself forever by his side;
And on her face a smile of restful bliss
	So chaste and pure, ’twas like a virgin bride
But all the while she walked with noiseless feet
Til Santa Claus had made his work complete.

And as she wandered through each silent room
	On tiptoe quietly her task to fill,
A magic light dispelled the former gloom;
	And here and there she scatter’d at her will 
Rare sweets and beauties with her gentle hand.
And hummed a song, I could not understand.

Sometimes I thought its meaning very sad.
	Yet with the light in those expressive eyes
I knew it must be full of promise glad
	And ever and anon she looked so wise—
As glancing up and down she went about
Til Santa Claus was ready to go out.

And then she shut the door, and down she knelt,
	Praying to God for wisdom and for grace 
I thought I knew what she that moment felt.
	But light and glory shone upon her face,
When she arose and viewed each shining head,
Nestled so closely in their downy bed.

O angel-mothers in your homes to-night,
	Let every word be like a fairy pearl,
To shine in after years forever bright,
	A talisman, to every boy and girl
To bind them closer to the hearth and home,
Whether on land or sea, they yet may room.


