A VOICE FROM MESA CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items from this arid region
might possibly be interesting to your numerous
readers, I take the liberty to jot down a few, that
you may know that we are not quite used up by
the broiling weather we have experienced the
past summer. We are now enjoying most lovely
weather, and were it not for the frost which
visited us the beginning of November leaving the
footprints upon our fruit and shade trees, we
would scarcely believe that Christmas was so
near at our doors. Thanksgiving day was duly
honored by services being held in the morning
with a well arranged programme which was inter-
estingly carried out.
	But the most enjoyable affair of the season so
far and which I wish to note was our Old Folk’s
Party, which came off at the Mesa Hall the 29th
of November which was decorated beautifully, with
festoons of flowers, and evergreen, and beauti-
ful pictures, by the Y. L. A. of Mesa. It was a 
Stake affair, and all over 50 were invited, of
whatever sect or creed. Those from 50 to 60
were denoted by red ribbon, over 60 by blue, over
70 by white, and over 80 by gold color, the red
predominated.
	At 1 p. m. they all gathered with baskets of 
picnic, which was taken care of by a committee
appointed. Opened by prayer, and singing: Oh
my Father; by the entire company, after which
a very fine programme was carried out, consisting
of songs, recitations and speeches. Henry
Brizzee gave a brief sketch of the Mormon
battalion, their journeys and hardships. Brother
Charles Harper on the Mormon Exodus from
Nauvoo to Salt Lake, short spicy speeches
by C. I. Robinson, H. Rogers, C. R Hakes, M.
A. Hakes, interspersed with songs and recita-
tions occupied the time until 5 p. m. when all
felt like enjoying their picnic which was indeed
a very sociable enjoyable time. Dancing was
next in order. The floor was soon cleared, and
dancing commenced, which was kept up inter-
spersed with songs and recitations, until 10 p. m.
when all separated with many good wishes for 
each others welfare and for many happy returns
of the day; great credit is due to the committee
and young ladies for the able, and energetic
manner in which it was carried out. 
	Our R. S, building is looming up rapidly. We
hope to have it completed by New Year's day.
when a good dinner in the hall New Year's is
promised those engaged in erecting it, and the
consequence is, they are exerting themselves to
the utmost to have it completed. It is of brick,
size 20 by 40, feet 10 feet to be partitioned off for
a storage room leaving the main room 26 by 30
which is ample room for our society as it at
present exists. We feel quite elated at the pros-
pect of having a Hall of our own as we have
suffered great inconvenience in getting suitable
places to hold our meetings in.
	Ever praying for the success of the little paper


so ably conducted.  I am as every our friend and
sister.
