						MARY Y. CORBY.


EMMA.
A THANKSGIVING STORY.
	The snow had been falling all through the
night and the morning light found everything
in the little town of L. sleeping beneath a soft,
white coverlet which the sun’s bright beams
turned into a mass of sparkling gems. Over-
looking the pretty town on the brow of the
hill stands a great white temple, which with its
snowcovered towers and turrets seems even
whiter now, and watching the fleecy clouds just
separating, leaving one large clear, blue space
above its snowy roof, one fancies that glorious
monument the dwelling place of angels
only just now dropped from heaven to cast a
divine light over the broad, beautiful valley
beyond.
	'Twas the last Thursday in November. A
fair, cold, silent day, a day when one prefers to
remain indoors and enjoy the warm fire, the
sumptuous dinner and the games and stories
which this holiday usually calls forth; but a
few found a sweet pleasure in ascending the
hill to the temple and enjoying a few hours
within its sacred walls mingling their voices in
praise and thanksgiving to the Father. I stood
without, listening to the sounds of music and
looking at the distant landscape where the
river winds among the blue far stretching hill,
enrapt in a strange aud sombre mood, when the
great outer door was opened and the worship-

[Column 2]
pers came forth, their step so light, their faces
all aglow as though some serene influence
guided every thought. Among the throng I
marked one whose step was just as light but
slower, whose face was as serene but still a
little sad, and he wandered from the crowd in a
lonely untrodden way; him I resolved to fol-
low. He led not to a bright cheery home or a
noisy street, but to the silent, lonely burying 
ground, and winding among the tombs and
mounds finally halted before a simple stone on
which was cut the name Emma.
	As he read the inscription his eyes filled with
tears and right in the snow he knelt and offered
up a prayer. I passed on but waited near the
gate hoping to learn from him as he returned
from his lonely visit, the story of her, whose
memory he held so dear, for story I was sure
there must be, a romantic one at that, but I 
scarcely had imagined anything so strange and
sad as the tale I afterwards learned.
	The stone marked the resting place of a wo-
man, possessed of such grace and beauty as any
of England’s fair daughters could boast, and
endowed with wonderful gifts and accomplish-
ments.
	In her father’s simple English home she
had ever been the brightest flower, cheering
and comforting her parents, caring for and
amusing her younger brothers and sisters, and
delighting and entertaining them all, and their
guests as well, with her piquant manner and
charming voice. One evening a stranger from
London was brought to the little home and in-
troduced to Mr. B's—family by a friend, and
as was customary the father, always proud of
his daughter’s beautiful voice, requested her to
sing for their entertainment. The gentleman
instantly perceived that the quality of her
voice was far beyond the ordinary, and him-
self a musician and director of an orchestra,
(though this fact was unknown to his host and
family,) saw an opportunity to make some gain
as well as pleasure through cultivating these
new acquaintences. He praised Emma’s voice
and insisted on her singing a number of songs,
but never admitting his own profession or
knowledge of music. He appeared to be
simply enjoying the melodies, while all the time
he was trying to note the compass,the strength,
the power, the pathos of this gentle girl’s most
wonderful voice. That evening was but the
beginning of a series of calls, and the gentle-
man came at different hours trying to gain an
opportunity to meet Emma alone and then
make her an offer, which he feared her parents
on account of their religious prejudice might
reject, but believed that he might persuade her
to accept. The opportunity finally came. One
evening some strangers from America were
holding a meeting in a large hall not far
distant from Mr. B’s. They professed to be
elders, teaching as Christ and His Disciples
taught, and some excitement had been worked
up through their coming, and Mr. B. had per-
suaded his wife to go with him to hear them.
Emma was left at home in charge of the
children and had just finished helping them off
to bed and returned to the little parlor to enjoy
a few moments practice when the door bell
rang. She felt sure it was her new friend. To
a girl like Emma, simply reared, but sensitive
and refined to a degree beyond her surround-
ings, the attentions of a cultivated and intelli-
gent man are very flattering, and when they
become so marked as Mr. Reading’s were,could
not help but touch her heart, such was indeed
the case. She knew the sound of his step,
and her heart throbbed if he touched her hand,
the blood rushed through her veins and tinged
her face, as his eyes rested upon her with such
looks of admiration and affection as he often
bestowed upon her. She scarcely dared to be-
lieve he loved her and was loth to acknowledge
that she loved him, but she knew that when
he was absent she was wretched, and that his
presence alone chased every unpleasant, discon


