to come.  Hoped the prophecy of Joseph
might be verified.  "All who observe the laws
of her Majesty's Dominion were free to dwell
under the folds of the British flag," stated he
should inform the Queen of our loyalty and
progress, and here let me state that it has
rarely been my lot to meet more unassuming
plainly dressed, and truly kind and gentle
people than are the real nobility of England
whom I have had the pleasure of meeting.
	Dr. Allen was the open "Sesame" to our
many privileges, and we felt truly grateful
for his kindness, he is one of nature's noble
men in very deed.  We need friends and
"Our Father" raises them up as he sees fit, all
praise to Him.  The next event was the steam
thresher, whose whistle woke the echoes of the
Rockies for the first time in this vicinity.  In
the course of a days threshing 4,400, bushels
of wheat and oats were stored away which is
another cause for gratitude, as the drouth in

[Column 2]
the summer, and a fierce hail storm, and early
frost made us a little doubtful for a season.
	The 29, of October brought us the best of
all.  Pres. Woodruff and party arrived here
after a ride across the prairie of 50 miles, all
in excellent health and spirits.  Can the joy
that filled our hearts be told?  no never, twas
meat and drink to our souls 'twas the knowl-
edge that we were cared for by our file leaders,
and the sweet consolation of the spirit of God,
that accompanied them.  Their words of in-
spiration and advice of approval of Brother
Card's course, the strength to him and all,
made it a time of times to us, and made us
feel that our little trials were more than com-
pensated for and forgotten in the joy of their
presence.  (If my dear mother and son could
have been here my happiness would have been
complete.)
	The people were joyfully assembed in con-
ference capacity Sunday and Monday and all
were filled with the desire to do and bear all
things for the gospel's sake and our hearts ran
together with heavenly love and praises to
Our Father, for all his tender mercies, Tues-
day was Pres. Card's 50th birthday, and all
the people assembled in the meeting house
where a splendid public dinner was partaken
of by all, in the evening a party and concert
combined was indulged in by our respected
visitors and nearly all the settlement.  We
had a good time, never to be forgotten.
	Wednesday the 6, the party went to Macleod
as the guests of Dr. Allen, stayed over night
in his elegant home where everything was
done for the comfort of his guests possible, 
next day to Lethbridge visiting the magnifi-
cent coal beds and works of the Galt Co. under
the polite and generous managers kind care
young Mr. Galt.  Through tears we see them
start for beloved Utah, "peace go with them."
And love to you all from the heart that never
forgets a friend, though far away.
				Yours ever,	
						ZINA Y. CARD.
Cardston, Nov. 12th 1889.


