EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Exponent extends to all its patrons and
friends here in the valleys of the mountains, and
abroad throughout the various nations, where it
goes as a messenger of “peace and good will,” good
wishes and a very merrie Christmas and a Happy
New year.
	Our readers will see that as the paper this time
is a real holiday number, we have omitted for once
publishing regular articles such as Reports from
the several associations, and obituaries, and also
the continued story of Hephzibah. We hope to
please, interest and amuse some of those who are
fond of poetry and stories. It will be a distinct
number and suitable to send away as a remem-
brance to friends, we shall have extra copies
struck off specially for that purpose.
	A day of solemn Fasting and Prayer has been
appointed by the First Presidency of the Church to
be observed throughout these mountain vales, and
all are requested to unite in beseeching our
Heavenly Father to pour out His Holy Spirit in
great power upon His servants and all the Saints
as a testimony that His watch-care is over His
chosen people. The day set apart is the next
anniversary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith—December 23rd, and special meetings will
be held also prayer meetings; places of business
of the Latter-day Saints will be closed on that
day. The fast will commence at sundown on the
22d, and continue until sundown of the 23rd.
We have heard many of the sisters express them-
selves desirous of a fast or meeting of this kind,
and the appointment is sure to be responded to by
every Latter-day Saint who feels the importance
of the present condition of this people.
	The regular quarterly conference of the Y. L.
M. I. Associations of this Stake will be held in the
Assembly Hall, on Friday, December 20th. Meet-
ings will commence at ten a.m. and two p. m.
Presidents of the associations are desired to use
every influence possible to have this conference
well attended. It is expected that some of the
Church authorities will be present to counsel the
young ladies. All who are interested in the
cause of mutual improvement are invited to attend.
The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10,. a. m. and
2, p.m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


