OLD AGE. 
	We often speak of old age as going down the
hill—I rather like to speak of it as going up a
steep and rugged hill, or mountain where we have
to climb over first one rock and then another
—alternately bruised with stones and torn with
briers which grow from the bottom of the hill to
the top.
	It is now many years since I began to ascend
this hill. I surmounted the rocks pretty readily
at first, but I found that the higher I ascended the
steeper was the hill and the more difficult I found
it to progress, and as I advanced I found I needed
some supernatural help. I thought of my Savior
and knowing that He had traveled a rugged path
while on this earth and that He was able and
willing to help me and to sympathize with me, I
sought by prayer and faith for His guidance, and
He graciously condescended to accompany me
up the hill. I also found it necessary to take the
promises of my Heavenly Father for my staff,and
I began to search the sacred Scriptures for those
most suitable to my circumstances. I sought
counsel and encouragement from the Prophets—
David exhorted me to be of good courage assur-
ing me that the Lord would give strength to His
people, for said he, “I sought the Lord and He
heard me and delivered me from all my fears.”
With this staff for my support and the company
of my Saviour I felt I was advancing. Others
were on the road with me, but although aged like
myself, they seemed to get over the rocks easier
than I did, consequently were a little in advance
but we all struggled on until we came to a beauti-
tul piece of green-sward on one side of our path

[Column 2]
and the opposite side a dreary desert. I was
hoping to enjoy with my companions a rest in the
cool shade of this beautiful spot, but my Savior
said to me—“Come ye apart into this desert place
and rest awhile.” When there He laid affliction
upon me and brought me very near to the gates of
death. In my distress I cried—“Be pleased O,
Lord to deliver me, O Lord make haste to help
me.” He graciously answered my prayer by
sending two of His servants, clothed with the
Holy Priesthood and power to heal the sick and
by the Anointing with Oil and the prayer of faith
I was again placed on my feet and re-commenced
my journey up the hill. I soon found another
large rock in my path, and weak and weary as I
was I wanted to sit down and rest, but no, upward
and onward was the Motto set before me and I
must not falter. With the help of my God I have
climbed over these stumbling-blocks until I have
nearly reached the top of the hill, and looking
up, I see an outstretched hand which I know to
be the hand of my Heavenly Father waiting to
help me over the last step.

		"I have but Thee oh, Father! Let Thy Spirit
			Be with me then to comfort and uphold;
		No gate of pearl, no branch of palm I merit
			Nor street of shining gold.

		Suffice it if—my good and ill unreckoned.
			And both forgiven through Thy abounding grace—
		I find myself by hands familiar beckoned
			Unto my fitting place.”

	Turning round to take a retrospective viw of
the road I have traveled, and taking special notice
of the rocks and briers I have had to contend with,
I am astonished to find that I have been permitted
to reach so near the top of the hill, and with ador-
ing gratitude I acknowledge the hand of my
Father through it all, and especially do I thank
Him that He has permitted me to come on this
earth at the time when he has revealed the ever-
lasting Gospel, and I know that whatever trials
He may call me to pass through in the near future,
He will deal gently with me, although one of the
weakest of His Saints.
	May we as a people be able to purify our hearts
before Him, that we may stand perfect and com-
plete in His sight. 
