But grandma must never be stingy, so come.
	And taste all these goodies with me.
And Grandpa said "Frankie, my brave little man,
	I’ve forgotten, you see, how to drum;
So take my two drumsticks quick's ever you can
	And play me a good Christmas tune."

And Fanny was asked to "Please hold my new doll,"
	And Katie “my necklace" to wear 
Just while it is Christmas," till each one and all
	Were busy with "helping" the pair.
The search in the stockings again they pursued,
	And still drew out heaps of fine things—
A new shawl for Grandma, a tippet and hood,
	A lovely gold brooch and earrings.

For Grandpa warm gloves and a charming fur cap,
	A muffler, a coat and a cane,
For both a large Bible to close with a snap,
	And an Album of verses and names.
The daughters and sons who stood lovingly by,
	All beaming with pride and delight,
The old folks said, wiping a tear from each eye,
	Themselves were the joy of their sight.

At last all withdrew to the kitchen and hall,
	And busily ran here and there,
To spread a long table, sufficient for all,
	And breakfast in order prepare.
Then Father and Mother, (now dressed with nice care,)
	Were brought to the table in state,
Where all in sweet reverence knelt down in prayer,
	Each one just before his own plate.

The breakfast was simple (the feast was to come,)
	Toast and butter, oatmeal and rich milk,
In fact just enough to be plenty, and none
	To make the dear little ones sick.
When the house was in order from garret to shed,
	The sleighs were brought round to the door,
To take some on visits with dainties and bread
	As gifts to the sick and the poor.

The children grew solemn at some things they saw,
	And sympathy sprang in each heart;
And gladly for those who had need would they draw
	The baskets and leave them a part.
No preaching nor teaching but this little gem—
	“Whatsoever ye do," sayeth He,
"To the least of my little ones, doing to them,
	Ye also have done it to Me."

Less noisily glad but more happy, they come
	To Grandpa’s dear threshold again,
Where stories and pictures kept busy their tongues,
	Till dinner was ready; and then


Came the grand Christmas feast with roast turkey and—
		there!
	I dare not attempt to portray,
For the carping young critics would surely declare
	'Twas better than all I could say.	

Then games, riddles, music and sweet Christmas song,
	Made pleasant the rest of the day;	
Then, loaded with kisses and blessings, the throng
	To other homes hie them away,
When they helped those wonderful stockings to fill,
	And carry them over the way,
Was the very best Christmas, the children will tell
	And stoutly maintain to this day.
