[Column 1]
SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
*	*	*
	Among the Greeks we first know of music as
connected with their dances; the dance regulat-
ing the rhythm of the accompanying music
[Column 2]
and poetry. From these semi-barbaric religious-
services the singing came into possession of the
early Christians; its character became changed,
and finally we have it developed into the in-
comparable masterpieces of the early Italian
church. It grew side by side with its sister
art of painting, which was also fostered by the
church, and one has a definite idea of its rela-
tive place in musical history when viewing the
many beautiful works of great Italian painters
of that time; the celebrated Madonnas and 
altar pieces of Titjens, Correggio, Guido, and
others. And when, later, the reformation
came, making war against prevailing prin-
ciples, and setting up newer and more liberal
principles in place of those already existing;
then, too, music effected the same chauges,
and musical religious art reached its highest
revelation in Bach and Handel.
	But before going into Germany, which im-
mediately becomes necessary in order to dis-
cuss the more modern music, allow me a word
concerning Italian opera, the same Italian
opera about which we hear so much even nowa-
days. Let me quote the spirit of certain re-
marks by one of the clearest art critics of our
century. He says, in effect, “that after the
decline of the old, pure church music in Italy,
such as was heard in the time of Palestrina,
the introduction and development of operatic
nelody was a lapse into Paganism, and that
this same Italian operatic music, so far as any
artistic fitness or connection of words and music
is concerned, has erected such a miserable
temporary structure that the cultured musician
of to-day stands in sorrowful amazement before
this petty and childish art form, the narrow
boundaries of which condemn the greatest
genius among composers to a merely heartless
and formal conventionality.” No other task
was set before the composer than to write a
number of popular airs for the special voices
of the popular singers' of the hour. The
Italian opera consists of certain conventional
forms—a solo for the prima donna, a duet, a
trio, then a chorus, then a ballet; all equally
good from an artistic stand-point, and all
equally amusing to a volatile, impulsive, and
excitable populace. There have been many
operas from the later Italian composers which
have contained wonderfully pretty, taking airs,
and which have been extremely popular, but,
generally speaking, Italian opera has little to
do with the history of real art.
	And now, leaving the frivolities of the
Italian opera, let us go north into Germany,
for there it was that musical art received its
strongest impulses, and achieved its greatest
triumphs. It was there that the inexorable laws
and dogmas which bound and fettered musical
composition were taken up, expanded, enlarged
and infused with spirit and beauty of treat-
ment, giving us what is now recognized as the
German classics. Bach, Handel, Hayden, and
Mozart are generally conceded to be the types
of this school. Bach and Handel have already
been mentioned as the culmination of the re-
formatory,religious element in music. Hayden
developed the sonata and the symphony forms;
wrote “The Seasons,” “The Creation,” and
numerous orchestral and piano compositions,
complete in form, but without any of that
descriptive coloring which distinguishes the
later music. It was Mozart who took the
Italian opera, scanty in form and of conven-
tional structure, though it had reached a sen-
suous brilliancy in the mouths of talented
singers, and gave it its highest character
through German instrumentation and treat-
ment.
	I shall not attempt to give any extended
definition of the word “classical." It should
mean “first-rate,” standard, but its ordinary
use is for those compositions, great and beauti-
ful as they are, which were modeled, measured
and exhibited only according to old Latinized


rules and formalities of expression. Many in
hearing the word ‘'classical’' immediately think
of the work referred to as dry, and say they
don’t like classical music, and indeed, it is
difficult enough to interest even a musical
student with the symmetrical and constructive
beauties of classical compositions. Then be-
sides, we have in most cases only that very im-
perfect and unsatisfactory instrument, the
piano, for our interpreting means; and the old
masters wrote their formal sounds for weak in-
struments, compared to the heavy, noisy in-
struments we now have at our disposal. Most
of their piano music sounds hollow, tinkling,
and antiquated; although we might see in these
old sonatas artistic finish of form, beautiful
periods properly balanced, and a delicate sense
of form and formality. However, these men
in their compositions were so convinced of the
indispensableness of order and exact rule that
their fancy was always under the dominion of
those laws, even in their boldest flights of
originality.


