AN OPEN LETTER TO MY FRIENDS.
		“Some have gone to lands far distant
		And with strangers make their homes."
	In some respects this is my case, but while
in a distant land far from home and kindred,
friends are here for all saints when assembled
as we are, making new homes, redeeming the
virgin soil, are near and dear friends. How I
wish I could sit and chat with the dear
friends at home, or could write a letter to
each that we might have a personal digest of
old times and happy scenes of the past. There
are many who have passed from this field of
usefulness to the great beyond. I have wept
when the sad news reached me, not for those
who have died in the Lord but for bereaved
ones here. When the echo of marriage bells
reached me I have rejoiced, if those who were
wed were given by those who have the power
to bless. The sweet little strangers who have
swelled the forces of our “home emigration"
have been kissed and admired, in heart and
mind for my fondness for them remains, as
“Dickens” says!
		“They are idols of hearts and of households
		They are angels of God in disguise"
and no home, can be all home without them.
So the years wear on apace, and all are chang-
ing. Are we growing into a oneness that the
eventful scenes we are passing through de-


mand? I trust and believe so, else I should
not be writing you now.  Shall I give you a
few leaves from my life here?  it may inter-
est you.
	The last two months have been full of
interesting events for our little colony.  On
the 27, of September we were honored with
the company of one of Canada's most influen-
tial and able men.  Hon. Mackenzie Bowell,
Minister of Customs, he was accompanied by
his Dept. Min. Parmalee' and the Inspecter 
of Ports, Capt. Geo H. Young, who by the
bye is doubtless distantly related to us.  They
were met at the St. Mary's River by my hus-
band and Dr. Allen, Collector of Customs at
that port, and a staunch true friend to us.
After an excellent dinner the party were sere-
naded by the choir, then a pleasant evening
of intelligent conversation on many of the
leading topics of the day, with jest and repar-
tee.  In the morning a drive amongst our
fields and flocks viewing our improvements etc.
then adieu with many kind words of praise and
wonder at all that had been accomplished in
two years by us, and we go on our even way
once more.  Not so the press and people for
we have had many words of encouragement
and comment through his Honor's visit, and he
has been "chaffed" not a little for his praise
of us.
	The 12, of October found a party of seven-
teen of our people wending their way to
Macleod, a setlement some 40 miles distant.
Our object in going was to meet the Gov.
Gen. of Canada who is the Representative of
the Queen, and who in company with his wife
Lady Stanley, her daughter, two neices, Mr.
Coleville Sec. Sir James Grant, court physi-
cian, and Mr. Villiers, the correspondent and
artist for the "London Graphic," were to be
there.  A most distinguished party, and we de-
sired to pay them the respect due from all
loyal citizens.
	Within 9 miles of the village our party
fell in with the Vice Regal party, who had
been visiting the Ranch of Senator Cochrane,
viewing their immense herds of stock. etc.
They were escorted by a body of mounted
police who made a very fine appearance.
Through the courtesy of our esteemed friend
Dr. Allen we camped on his grounds, where
we had the pleasure of meeting His Excellency
and Lady Stanley, Sir James Grant, Mrs.
Coleville, Miss Leister and Miss Stanley.  We
were treated in the kindest manner possible.
They honored us by coming into our tent,
chatting freely and cordially, expressing the
pleasure it would have given them to have
visited our little settlements, etc.  Monday
morning Lord Stanley accepted the only
opportunity that presented itself to listen to
our address which he kindly listened and re-
plied to in a most happy and appreciative
manner, said we were welcome here, and in-
vited us to use our influence to induce others
