CHRISTMAS EVE.

'Tis Christmas Eve. In every home 	
	Where Christians know the glorious name,
Each face is bright with hope and joy,
	And every hearth with leaping flame;
Nay check the happy, thoughts and words
	That should be truth, for sadly wakes 
Remembrance of the poor of earth—
	For them, what joy through sorrow breaks?

In many a church this day have met.
	The brave and strong, the fair and bright,
Until with wreaths and winter flowers
	'Tis made a beauteous, sacred sight; 
A rev’rent tribute to our Lord
	To whom earth’s riches are as naught, 
But the soul’s off'ring brought in love
	An incense with sweet perfume fraught. 

Beneath those arches, garlanded 
	With evergreens' eternal prime,
'Mid columns wreathed and streaming light,
	'Mid music’s welcome, sweet, sublime;
A being clothed in purest white.
	Enters, a loftier form beside,
And bent and youthful forms alike
	Whisper their blessing, on the bride.

The throng is gone the church is closed
	And gentle voices fill the air.
The lights of home, like stars they shine
	And joy and music wait them there.


But, happy as e’er bride or groom,
	The children’s hour at last is found,
The arch triumphal of their day—
	The fire place with stockings 'round.

Then clasp and sweet good nights are heard 
	Far up the stairway and the hall;
O, wedded lovers—parents fond—
	Children are happiest of all.
O, Angels, touch those dainty cheeks
	With Heaven’s love in guardian kiss,
Come, after years with all life hath,
	There'll be no sweeter time than this.

O pity! for those darkened lands
	That have not learned the Love and Light,
The ‘Peace on earth good will to man’
	That shall each creature's wrongs make right.
O pity for those lonely isles
	That ’wait for Thee’ through ages long,
Where man is Master, or is slave
	And Satan holds his fortress strong.

But pity more the souls once free
	Now prison bound for truth’s own sake,
Who’ll hear within their tow’ring walls 
	The sounds of Christmas morn awake.
For these who’ve borne the word of God
	No sweet home greeting and embrace,
Yet faith shall heal the tender wound 
	And light the gloom of e’en, that place.

And little children springing up
	On Christmas morn their joy will check 
A moment, just, the while they cling
	Around their lonely mother’s neck,
Yet by the Name that crowns this Day,
 	We know this trial is for good,
That test will end when we have proved
	True manliness and womanhood.

So ring, ye merry Christmas bells
	Front lofty spires and flying sleighs,
Though joy is sweet. His loved ones' tears
	More precious are than sounding praise.
And, by some angel messenger
	Tidings of love in prayer will send,
'Till comes the time when all at home
	The blessed Christmas hours shall spend.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 8, ’89.


