FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OTILLIA.
		A CHRISTMAS STORY.
	"Dear me, Floribel, did I really promise to
tell you a story tonight?” “Yes, Auntie,”
answered a chorus of sweet voices chiming in
with Floribel’s.
	Auntie looked away from the fair, youthful
faces gazing so expectantly into her's and
answered dreamily: “I’m sure I don’t know
what to do about it, so many things of a
different nature have filled the day with such
bright realities, that fancy has had no chance to
rest a moment; don’t you think we’ve had
enough—and then—the ball?”
	Such a shadowing of bright faces! The
twinkles vanished from sparkling eyes, restless
dimples disappeared like a flash, lips all smiles
just now, drooped in downward curves and
those penetrating, thought-searching, loving
eyes, where pleading had not quite yielded to
dissappoinment; what a sight they were—that
group around Auntie!
	Floribel just touched the white flannel
around her throat, a reminder that there was
no ball for her tonight (but then, Floribel was
only thirteen;) Rose, Jessie and Lillian with
arms entwining each other stood mutely con-
fronting her and Marguerite slipped around
behind the chair, then, framing Auntie’s head
in her pretty arms, softly kissed her. Auntie’s
slender white hand moved gently upward and
rested on the dimpled ones locked together;
and mused: “Of course you want a new one,
and I fear that my stock of stories is about ex-
hausted; shall it be a real one, or not?”
	The idea of Auntie’s story repository being
exhausted! Hadn’t she always been able to
tell them the very best ones anybody ever
heard and on the shortest possible notice and
didn’t they all know they were newly coined
stories that no one else ever knew of, to tell
anybody? So the twinkles and the dimples
and the smiles all came back and Auntie could
tell just what she pleased, only when it was a
fiction they all felt sorry it couldn’t have been
true; but—how delightful fictions always are,
and may-be—who knows—something nearly
like them might be true, somewhere; it always
takes something real to make a shadow, don’t
it?
	Auntie glanced at the clock across the room,
(it was just lamplight, and there was time for
a short story before going to dress for
the party,and a delightful consciousness of their
satisfaction would go with her); it wouldn’t do
to disappoint the pretty nieces who always
looked upon her as their very ideal of a gentle
gracious lady, and would have done any pos-
sible thing for her comfort and pleasure; so
she drew Marguerite around to a seat beside
her on the sofa, Floribel fell like a snow drift
on the other side and at the same moment the
three others sank upon the bright rug before
her and settled down to give her the closest
attention.
	“I think it had best be a true one tonight,
I may as well take the first one that comes to

[Column 2]
my mind, plain though it be, and strangely
enough this figure in memory has passed before
me several times today.”
	There was no sparkle of amusement in
Auntie’s face, no sign of mystery, but a gentle,
far off look and the loving faces grew more
serious.
	"Some few years ago, before your parents
came to live in this pleasant city, there was a
young woman who used to come to our house
twice a week to help us. To have met her upon
the street, you would not have guessed that
anything but a quiet stroll was her object, no
suggestion of work day presented itself, no
hurry in her gait, no carelessness in her attire
or anxiety in her countenance, just a quiet
dignity of deportment.  When she entered the
house her face was smiling, her manner
courteous, and a spirit of cheerfulness and
buoyant strength made itself felt at once. The
children would hasten, one to take her hat,
veil and shawl, another would draw a chair
near the table or fire for her, her cough would
be inquired after and last, no—sometimes first,
our three year old boy would ask: “did you
bring me a candy mouse, Miss Otillia?”
	Then such a pantomine of gestures and ex-
pressive changes of countenance would follow;
to see her clasp her hands and look so seriously,
her face half averted, you might think the
treasure had been accidentally forgotten; but
no, never ceasing to watch the baby’s features,
her hand would slide down into her pocket
and draw out a small package, which con-
tained gum drops, peppermint lozenges and
chocolate cream mice, these last for her favorite.
"O, dat sweet mout!” she would say expres-
sively; “Well now, I don’t care, I would walk
a mile any day to bring something to dat child;
I don’t know if someting will happen to him
sometime; dose eyes too bright, dose cheeks too
red and and dat voice when he say ‘Miss
Otillia!’ then Miss Otillia would close her eyes
and turn away with such an air of inexpres-
sible tenderness that we could not help smil-
ing at her frank and emotional way, for we all
knew that she was sincere and really loved the
boy. I think that if he had been a young
prince she could not have shown him more
tenderness and respect, or listened to his pro-
fuse promises of what he would do for her
when he became a man. He had a quaint
fancy, no one knew where it came from, of call-
ing himself “Little Reindeer.”
	One day when after her work was over, she
sat down with an air of weariness, in a rock-
ing chair, he came before her and resting his
hands on her knee looked sympathetically in
her face. His long, flossy, golden curls lay
upon his shoulders and she was studying the
picture.
	“Miss Otillia, when Little Reindeer is grown
up to be a man, you shall not be tired any-
more; I will take you in a carriage and you
shall have a silk dress and shi—ning beads
and I will give you flowers and grapes—and
you shall ride and ride, far away with me.”
Eagerly listening to his loving sympathy, with-
out a word to repulse or chill his little heart,
Miss Otillia covered her face with her hands
as though such sure happiness was overwhelm-
ing, then answered him: “Den, my Little
Reindeer, I will never ride with any one else,
I will wait for you.” “If I did not know for
myself when dis boy was born, I would sure
believe me he was some royal blood; to give
himself a title like dat! like it was his right;
and to be so fine and proud and make such
grand promises! Well it is his nature!”
	When we would gently remonstrate with her
for spending her money in candies for the
children she answered with dignity: “Please
don’t say dat, to have some one watch for me
and expect something of me, makes me to feel
like I was somebody and not myself all alone.
I get so tired, to buy things just for myself.”

[Column 3]
So we could not deny this gentle appeal; but
if we tried to make it up to her by any extra
allowance she was quick to discern and decline
it. “It is one dollar, and no more.”  Dear
Miss Otillia, she was so exquisitely sensitive,
proud, independent and loving; witty too. She
had a way of her own in dismissing suitors,
that there was no getting around. “Yes," she
reflectively answered one lover: “you have
known me these several years and seen me
earn my own living, why did you not ask me
a long time ago?”
	“Oh, no, not now, when you wait so long to
see if I was nice enough.” Imagining he saw
a ray of light through his o’ershadowed hopes,he
pleaded embarrassment and inquired if his fate
might have been different at an earlier stage of
their acquaintance. Miss Otillia regarded him
with a sidewise serio-comic look and replied.
“I think not.”
	After his departure she said emphatically,
that “he was a fine man.” “Then why did you
refuse him?” “I mean a fine man, for some
other woman.” So it went, the ardent were
dismissed as too hasty, the more retiring as too
tardy; one answer for all—no. And yet, Miss
Otillia was not heartless, it was because she
placed a higer estimate upon the marriage
contract than is usual. Through the fires of
sacrifices the dross of her own nature had been
consumed and she exacted for the pure gold of
her own heart, only its equivalent; a pure life
to watch a pure life, harmony in faith, and
true love to match her own.
	Few that were acquainted with her had an
idea of her complete self. Her outer and inner
life were different yet harmonious. To mere
acquaintances she was a perfectly proper, un-
married woman; to her friends, a continual
wonder, entertainment and admiration; a being
of noble purpose, self sacrifice, love and child-
like simplicity. And her history! I must tell
you that, so you may understand her.
	I have often wondered if, when she so quietly
threaded her way along the yet uncrowded
streets, her mind was not elsewhere amid scenes
of the past, for she was very proud of her own
country, Denmark.
	There was one very eccentric person whom
she had known at home, and she would often
defend him,for his peculiarities were frequently
alluded to. “Well now I don't care; dat was
a very fine gentleman at home, he had a
position in de King’s palace and his wife was
so fine! almost like a high born lady; and
now he is poor with no one to say what he is, I
will speak for him!” One day I quietly asked
her to step outside and when we reached the
end of the house, a very excitable harangue
could be heard, a confused and amusing com-
bination of English and Scandinavian; the
person was quarreling with an American on
the street corner. In a moment she recog-
nized her countryman and with deepest morti-
fication exclaimed: “O Mine own Country!
What would mine King say to dat gentle-
man. And so beautiful, he can preach and
sing dem hymns,” and here again, gestures
and looks finished the sentence.
	A great actor had been playing Hamlet at
our theatre and I remarked to her; “I saw
you last night, how did you like the play?”
	“I guess I like dat play as well as any one,
Hamlet was a Dane. Dat Shakespeare have
to come to My Country for dat grand sub-
ject, but (with impressive dignity) you should
see dat play in Copenhagen. “Does it not
recieve justice at our hands, Miss Otillia?”
“Well now, Mrs. I don’t say but dat dey do
as vell as dey can in de English language
but—” and with another of her expressive
looks Miss Otillia humiliated our national
pride) but we humored her for we knew how
much our country and our faith have cost
her.	
	“How did you come to receive the Gospel


Miss Otillia?” “I was in Copenhagen. My
father was killed in His Majesty’s service
and soon after de war dem Mormon Elders
came and my mother believe dem. Before
dis, so many dead bodies caused sickness and
my eyes went almost blind. My mother in
her faith called in de Elders and my eyes
were healed and in my thankfulness I was
baptized, with my sisters and my brother. I
was not always at Copenhagen. We had lived
near de palace of Prince Christian at Glucks-
burg before he was King and my mother did
often mend de dresses of de little girls Alex-
andra and Dagmer. Many days and years we
played and studied together; and dat Dag-
mar was so sweet! when we run through de
garden, and she tell us so much about dem
pictures of dead ladies and gentlemen ’till I
know dem all. When de time came for dem
to go and be made fine ladies because dey
must live in de palace at Copenhagen when
King Frederick die and bye and bye be
married to some Princess, den I see dem no
more to speak to dem, only once in a long
while when dem lovely Princesses see us, dey
know us and remember and smile. You see
my mother had something given her to do at
Copenhagen after dey was dere. When
Alexandra go away so happy to her English
home, I sit me down and cry; O, dem flags!
and dem fine sights! but de English love her.
Now you must not laugh at me nor be sur-
prised, but poor Dagmar, among dem Russian
Nihilists, I pray for her every day I lives!”
Tears were in Miss Otillia’s eyes and could I
do less than say; “pray on Otillia and may
Heaven grant your prayers.”
	O, royal Dagmar in your resplendent palace
in the proud Empire of the North, little there
comes to you the thought amid your regal
splendors, the fulness of your joys or the
tumult of your fears, that a playmate of your
childhood remembers you with the devotion
of subject to sovereign and trembling for
your peace, prays for you in her lowly home in
far off Utah. And is it not probable that
these prayers have shielded her?
	“There must have been other friends, too,
whose loss you remember and miss.” For
reply she took from her finger a ring and
pointed to the inside and I read the names
Waldemar and Otillia. She replaced it on
her finger and said: “Now I will tell you.
We had been Mormons awhile but did not
talk of it outside de members, it was no use
my mother said; so when this one so long my
friend came every week, we waited to see if
he would hear and believe. One evening as
we walked together he told me he had heard
about some Danes had been baptized into dis
strange church, and said dey was crazy fools
and he wish de King would punish dem. He
was in de King’s service and looked so grand
and terrible! I knew dat night I must never
see him any more it must be one or de other
for me, not both, and I took de Gospel.” “Did
you not feel tried and alone, Miss Otillia?” “I
was not de only one dat was tried; I could
tell you of many aching hearts and I had to
be sorry for dem too.” Dear Miss Otillia
thought I: if I ever hear anybody speak
slightingly of you as an old maid I’ll see
about it. “One night dere came into our
meeting a lady and we were so surprised we
all knew who she was de Lady Amalia, (a
maid of honor I tink you call it) to a grander
lady. She had heard from her brother about
an angel had come in this de plan of salvation
and must hear it for herself. O, when she
walk down de room her dress just make a
noise so beautiful; and dem diamonds in her
ears; well now it did look strange in dat little
meeting because so many poor were der. But
dat lady was not proud, it was just like she
dressed all de time and when she heard de
Elder preach de tears run down her cheeks
[Column 2]
like rain, and many others cry too.” “Why
so Miss Otillia:” “Well now, Mrs. dat lady
knew it was de truth and she could not deny
it, and she knew when de grand people find
her out, she must be cast out from dem.
	Her brother came with her and he was an
officer. Bye and bye de grand lady asks her:
“I hear about your going to a strange
church?” Lady Amalia would not say no,
and de other one said: “If you go no more
it is well, but if you do you must leave me.”
Den she looks so terrible dat Lady Amalia
almost faint away but de next moment she
held out her hands and asked: “Will you let
me tell you someting? but she would not
listen, so she told her brother and the same
had been said to him; so dey take dere fine
tings and sell dem and she teach music awhile
and he teach language till dey come away to
America. Now; when dat Lady Amalia
came to Utah she was soon married to one of
dem Elders and where do you tink she went
to live?” “I can’t imagine Miss Otillia, do
tell me?” “Away, up north of Salt Lake
City and into a log house she spend her first
Christmas! and her brother said: “Let us
have a big fire for I cut and hauled dese logs
myself, and he was so proud as if he was right
in de palace at Copenhagen!” Miss Otillia
laughed so heartily at this that I could not
help joining and loving her more than ever
for her artless happiness.
	Two years ago this Christmas, Miss Otillia
sent me by the hand of a friend, a little token
of remembrance; a card with her name and
silver doves in flight across the upper margin,
Weeks passed by during which I was plan-
ning to leave home and go see her. One day
there came the dreadful word to me that she
had been sick for several weeks and had died
almost alone, attended only by her widowed
sister. For days, that heavy cloud of sorrow;
that vain remorse for slighting the promptings
of the still small voice; and seeing not that
flight of the spirit which the little doves fore-
told. And it seemed that before me rose a
pure white shaft, plain as her life among us
had been; revealing not the words that floated
before me night and day.
	Here lies one who was the playmate of
Alexandra, of Dagmar and of Thyra, whose
footsteps turned from palace halls to follow
the summons of the Gospel’s sound, to toil
and dwell in humility yet remembering ever
in her prayers the crowned and noble friends
of her childhood. Rest Otillia, thy weary
body here, but may thy quickened spirit there
still spread the plea and guardian ship of
prayer round thy beloved Dagmar. May’st
thou walk in fairer palaces than those of earth,
till thou shalt meet that one, whose name thy
failing breath revealed greet thee with a bride-
groom’s kiss.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 6, 1889.


