[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: Earthquake and Fire | Author: Unknown]

EARTHQUAKE AND FIRE.
	People all over the United States have
been terribly exercised and their tender-
est feelings drawn out in heartfelt sym-
pathy and compassion over the panic and
distress, caused by the destructive earth-
quake and devastating fire that followed
it in San Francisco and thereabouts—
along the Pacific Coast, on April 18th
ult., leaving such desolation in its track,
and causing such great loss of human life
and of valuable property, and most of all
terrible pain and suffering almost, and
really in many instances worse than
death itself. How the people who partic-
ipated in this horrible catastrophe en-
dured it and lived is wonderful; surely
the Lord has been merciful to help them
bear it; to us at a distance from the
scenes of horror it has been almost unen-
durable to contemplate. What must it
have been to those who were eye wit-
nesses or were in the immediate vicinity,
even though they escaped uninjured.
	To hear some of these people recount
even a little of the horrors that took
place near them is heartrending, and ac-
tion seems the only alternative; to render
some sort of assistance is a little allevia-
tion. Imagine seeing a great city laid
waste in a day; it is to be hoped the hor-
ror of these terrible sights may fade out
of the memory of those who were there
and could not escape seeing the pathetic,
tragic and often revolting scenes while
the fire was raging.
	To read of these catastrophes in ancient
times was always harrowing to one’s feel-
ings, and to be in the midst of it in the
present day is beyond what one can sense,
who is remote from the actual occurrence.
And yet it has transpired almost at our
own doors as it were, for San Francisco—
the gate of the Pacific ocean—seems so
near to us here that we feel it is at least
our neighbor.
	It has given the people an opportunity
to prove their benevolence, their pity,
their generosity and their genuine love
for humanity. Perhaps they needed this
terrible lesson, for this world has grown
cold and hard, we are told, and money-
getting has become a sort of mania, now
when men see a fortune amassed by years

[Column 2]
of struggling gone in an hour, lost irrevoc-
ably, it is an object lesson to the world,
and it is only men who have the greatest
courage to rise above the most adverse
conditions, that will attempt to retrieve
their fortunes so swiftly swept away.
	These great disturbances of nature are
appalling to the human mind, and as yet
the wisdom of men, with the knowledge
of science of the earth, has failed to ac-
count altogether, or at any rate foretell
when such events may come. Surely
this one came as “a thief in the night.”
	One lesson surely it will teach to “love
our neighbor” to the extent of imparting
of our substance to him in his need. The
hearts of the people have been touched
deeply, sympathetically, and the giving
has been most generous, bountiful even
and wfth good-will, and in the spirit of
love, such love as will eventually prevail
to bring all mankind up to a higher
standard.
	For a time it seemed other daily occu-
pations stood still and waited until the suf-
ferers could be cared for, and sending off
substantial relief was the order of the day
and hour.
	It was expected the report of the Re-
lief Society here would have been ready
by this time, but it is in the hands of a
competent committee who will prepare it
in good time. Several Stakes of Zion
have united in this, and it is really desir-
able to ascertain from all, whether in
Utah or adjoining states and territories.
Even if we do not wish to make it known
now, it is right that it should be made a
matter of record in the history of the
charitable work of this great organiza-
tion.
	The sisters who have been dilatory or
indifferent in regard to saving grain may
realize more the importance attached to 
the storing of grain by the women of 
Zion by this object lesson.


