[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: Unknown]

			IN MEMORIAM.
			HARRIET WILSON.
	My mother Sister Harriet Wilson, died March
23rd, 1906, aged 92 years. She was born July 7th
1813, at Fendon in Derbyshire, England. Em-
braced the gospel in the year 1847. Emigrated to
Utah in September 1871, residing in Salt Lake
City, keeping a store until 1878, when she came
to Sandy and lived here until her death.
	Soon after coming to Sandy she was chosen

[Column 2]
first counselor to Sister Wilhelmina Olsen and
for a number of years she filled that position until
about 7 years ago when she was honorably re-
leased on account of her extreme age. She was
a very energetic worker never tiring in her
labors.
	Her nature was angelic and especially to the
poor and afflicted and those that were cast down;
her religion was to her the dearest thing of her
life; she retained her bright and noble mind to
her death, declaring a few moments before she
died that she never had a doubt, but knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was sent of the Lord; her
memory was remarkable, also her eyesight, never
using spectacles; she was one of the most remark—
able of women; filled up her long life and won to
herself a crown that is promised to the faithful.
	In England she used to distribute tracts and
made some converts that have gathered here that
looked upon her with great reverence. She enter-
tained many times at her home President Joseph
F. Smith and many prominent leaders of the
Church, also many missionaries. They loved to
be in her company acknowledging she was of ster-
ling worth. She died as she had lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and her light will shine before
her children both in thime and eternity. God grant
her children may live as she has lived.
	A large concourse of people attended her
funeral which was held in the ward meetinghouse.
Brother Joseph E. Taylor of Salt Lake City,
preached her funeral sermon; also Bro. Walter
Williams who was well acquainted with her from
hoyhood giving glowing tributes to her life work.
Miss Judith Anderson of Salt Lake City sang
beautifully two numbers; the floral tributes were
grand.
