Keeping Up With Santa By Virginia B. Jacobsen
FOUR year old Ronny eagerly confided to the department store Santa that he wanted a screw driver and a tow chain to pull his little cars. Christmas morning he stood blinking in amazement at the beautiful electric train and other toys under the Christmas tree. Of course, he was excited with the generous array of gifts, but something was wrong. "Santa made a mistake! He brought me a train instead of the screw driver and chain." His little voice trembled and two big tears tumbled down his rosy cheeks. "Perhaps he put them in your stocking," someone suggested. Sure enough, there they were right in the toe of his stocking, and what a thrilled little boy Ronny was. Daddy was very disappointed that Ronny was not more interested in the train, but Ronny had not yearned for a train for thirty years as Daddy had. Ronny had wanted the five cent chain and the ten cent screw driver for months and months, which made them mean much more to the little lad. We parents are rather inclined to interpret our children's desires and enthusiasms in relation to our own unfulfilled youthful yearnings. In this, we are somewhat selfish. Our selfishness or shortsightedness leads us to often make unwise purchases.
If Ronny had longed for an electric train for several years and had reached an age where he understood the operation of its several intricate switches, he would have treasured the gift until he was grown, and would have taken good care of it. Human nature seems to value most those things for which we work the hardest or wait the longest. If we buy little four-year-olds electric trains and such things, what will we give them when they are eight and nine, really old enough to want and value the gift?
WE are frequently extravagant because we spend so much more than we really need to. In this we are making the child selfish and greedy and are storing up trouble for ourselves in the future. We often buy large expensive toys when smaller cheaper ones would please the child just as much if not more. Last Christmas Nancy wanted a dolly washer. Her fancy was an inexpensive washer, but mother saw a beauty (costing three times as much). It pleased the mother's eye and appealed to her sense of good quality. It would last longer and looked so much more like a real electric washer. Christmas morning young Nancy was very disappointed. The expensive toy was not what she wanted, as in the case of Ronny. She set the washer back under the Christmas tree, where it stayed for several days. Yes, it will last longer than the one she wanted because she seldom uses it.
Of course the pendulum swings the other way when John wants something the parents can't really afford. Then comes the task of leading John to want something else. If we are skillful in handling the situation, John will never suspect that he has been persuaded to change his desire.
Parents are often confronted with the problem of "keeping up with the Joneses." All of Nancy's little friends are going to get something which we simply cannot afford for her. Just what can we do about it? Shall we indulge the child's desire to save her heart break, or shall we start right there to teach her self-denial and sacrifice for the good of others? If she is old enough to have this situation arise, she is old enough to reason with and learn wholesome self-sacrifice. The far-sighted parent understands which toys are really adaptable to the child's mental and physical age. It is not a difficult matter to guide the child's interest in that direction. If toys fit the child's activity age we have saved many unhappy hours of petulance, whining, and discontent.
PARENTS are frequently lazy in choosing toys, because they fear constructive toys and educational games will require some of their time to teach the child how to use them. Yet, in the end they serve two valuable purposes: they bring us closer to our children; and they provide tools for the creative ability within the child. Thus provided with something he can create or construct, a child will be content for many happy hours.
A few creative or constructive toys adaptable to different ages might be mentioned here: Blocks, of course, appeal to almost all ages from one year on up. (Even mother and dad enjoy building towers and castles on the floor with the youngsters.) There are so many beautiful sets of blocks in every size, shape and color. Recently we saw a set in semi-hard rubber, which the little year old can chew and throw to her heart's content with no damage to child, blocks, or furniture. Crayons usually appeal to children over three. These with the beautiful coloring books available for ten or fifteen cents bring many peaceful hours to the home. Modeling clay puts something pliable into the hands of the creative child of five and will hold his interest for many years. If he only rolls balls they become apples, oranges, grapes, beads, marbles, or any number of objects which his little mind can think of. The mechano and other constructive sets including Lincoln Logs and other types of building materials offer a splendid opportunity for keeping 6 to 15 year old minds and hands occupied. If father is wise to his opportunities he will find many hours of fine companionship with his sons as they work together on these construction jobs. These will be hours which neither son nor father will ever forget.
Toy departments are filled with creative toys for every age, too numerous to mention here. There are some which can very easily be duplicated at home for very little expenditure where family budgets are very limited. We will mention one for example: the popular hammer-nail sets. These are splendid for the four and five year olds. The local lumber yards have several types of building board which will cost very little for a piece 15 by 18 inches. Five cents worth of nails, a small hammer, and a twenty-five cent box of the little colored pieces to be nailed on (these are available in most toy departments where the hammer-nail sets are sold) completes a toy which will please almost any little child. In the summer time, there is nothing to compare with the sand pile for providing material for creative ability. Where a warm, dry basement is part of the family home, it is possible to continue the sand pile throughout the winter, by making a cement or wooden sand box with sides high enough to prevent the sand from escaping. In buying sand, we should remember that there is a great difference in sands. River or beach sand is clean, round, and free of dust, while sand from mountain sand pits is usually dusty and scratchy, which makes it cling to little feet and hands.
IN our search for appropriate Christmas gifts we must not forget books, because they should be a vital part of the life of every child. There are books for all ages and interests at almost any price we wish to pay. At no time in the history of literature has there been such a wealth of books for all ages. As a rule, the children's books of today are beautifully illustrated making them so attractive. But we should be careful in our selection of books for they help to lay the foundation of character in the child. His love of good literature or distaste for books of any kind can so easily be influenced by the type of books we place in his young hands. Dorothy Canfield Fisher says: "Be sure that any child in your care has free access to the fine old books, from Peter Rabbit to the Wonderful Adventure of Nils, from Grimms' Fairy Tales to the William Henry Letters, Alice in Wonderland, Toby Tyler, Treasure Island, Robinson Crusoe, Gulliver's Travels, and all the rest. Any librarian can tell you their names." Let us be sure that each child has at least one good book added to his personal library each Christmas and birthday.
There is one other phase of book buying which is very important, and about which most parents are sadly uninformed. I refer to the buying of sets of books, such as encyclopedias and reference books. Such a set makes an ideal Christmas gift for the whole family if our children have reached the school age where they are ready to use reference books. It is a useful gift which lasts for many years. Bruce Barton says: "A good modern encyclopedia is the cornerstone of every personal library." Dr. Frank Crane has said: "The encyclopedia underlies, supports, complements all other books. It is the one book you cannot afford not to own.... The sure-footed mind is not the one that knows things; it is the one that knows where to find things. The person with the encyclopedia habit does not carry in his head all knowledge, but he has the key to the storehouse; he knows right where to go and get what he needs. The encyclopedia is as necessary to the laborer as to the college president. A man's library should grow with his life. His books are like the flesh he puts on; and some men are too fat, and others are too lean."
In buying a set of encyclopedias most parents are at the mercy of the first salesman who approaches them. There is much good in all sets, but there is a great difference and value in them. If we contemplate putting a fairly large sum of money into any purchase, we usually investigate the whole field, or shop around a little, to make sure that we are getting the best for our money. This is seldom true when we buy a set of reference books. Usually the sales talk of the agent is so convincing that we buy the first set so offered at our door without any investigation. Having no standard by which to judge, we are at the disadvantage of having to take the agent's word for the merit of his publication. But no wise parent will invest in any set of books without first consulting reliable sources of information as to the relative merit of different sets of reference books. The public libraries usually have several different sets and most librarians will gladly help you in your comparison. The American Library Association publishes a quarterly publication called Subscription Books Bulletin which is a great help in selecting a set of encyclopedias. This bulletin is to be found in most public libraries. The April, 1930, issue of the Subscription Books Bulletin tells how to judge an encyclopedia. The three cardinal points which decide the standing of any encyclopedia are:
1. Authority of its information, including, Accuracy. Completeness. Up-to-dateness.
2. Extent to which the work sends the readers to other sources of information, i.e., its bibliographies.
3. Mechanical arrangement. This should be such that any information included can be found by the ordinarily careful reader.
To test the accuracy of such a set of books, take two or three subjects about which you are quite well informed, and see what the encyclopedia says about these subjects. If the information is accurate it is safe to conclude that each article has been written by real authority even if the articles are not signed. Usually such articles are signed and the author's name alone vouches for the accuracy of the statements. It should be remembered in buying reference books that each year new material will be added to new editions. What does the publisher offer in helping you to keep your set up to date? Some publishing houses provide a loose leaf book like the binding of the set, and for a very small sum will send the owners of a set the new material contained in the new editions. This seems to be an adequate method of keeping your set up-to-date.
There are some sets of books which are graded, and agents point out that while your child is three and four there is a book which fits his needs and as he progresses there are books into which he grows. There is one disadvantage in such a set. By the time your child has reached the age where he needs to use the reference books himself the set is out-of-date. There are so many single books which adequately meet the needs of younger children that it seems unwise to invest so much money before he is ready to use the books himself. If you are careful in your selection, you can make a fine contribution to your children's mental development through buying a good set of reference books. It will be a Christmas gift they will enjoy for many years.
IN our Christmas giving to our children, what part of ourselves are we really giving to them? There is a little song which the children of today are singing:
"What makes life the sweetest, Bestest and completest? Not a big doll house, nor a Mickey Mouse, But the right somebody to love."
It is not the lavish expenditure for beautiful gifts that will endear us to our children. They will forget in the years the sacrifice we made to buy them expensive gifts, but time will never erase the memory of the sleigh rides, picnics, hikes, the games we play with them, our joyous smile, the evening story hour, or the songs we sing with them. So?This year let us tuck a bit of ourselves deep down in the toe of each stocking, to be used each day of the year to endear us to our children.