The Magic of Christmas By Claire Stewart Boyer child we cannot enter the heaven of Christmas. In the hearts of women today has crept a fear that Christmas, over commercialized, is losing its glory. There is a feeling that it is circumscribed by a bank account, and that emphasis on toys, plastered with prices, has increased worry and decreased joy. With the approach of the holidays there is often a sigh, brows are furrowed, and remarks are made that seem to detract from Christmas. But the glory of Christmas can never fade. Song and story will keep it the Day of Days, and the heart of the world will be renewed by its love and peace forever. But there is another virtue of Christmas that is in grave danger? its magic is waning. To the magic of the season then we can turn our thought, and the secret of this magic is in the heart of a child. Why is it we yield our own desires and turn so completely from them to make Christmas real? It is partly because of the Christ to be sure, but also partly because the heart of a child is so adequate. He is able to sense and to give the intangibles to the day. He feels the love behind the gift, he evaluates not in dollars but in thoughtfulness. He lifts us to a high plane of spirituality by his emotional radiation. Impulsively he will say, "I'd like to give Jimmy a present this year, he seems so kind of lonely," or "Wouldn't it be fun to surprise Mrs, Adams? She'd never think I'd remember her," or "I've been thinking for a long time about what would make Aunt Abbie happiest," and if his litU aia we become as a little tle dreams can be carried out without a budget he will indeed create the magic of Christmas. AJAGIC and money are seldom found on the same shelf, anymore than fairy tales and economics are found in the same book. Both are a part of life but the longer we. Can keep them separate the happier we will be. Now if a child could choose he would always take the fairy stories, that is if his tastes have not been marred by careless or rigid supervision. And yet he is not such a spend-_ thrift. Ask a child to write down the gifts he would like to make, then stipulate an allowance to let the money determine his choices. See how his eyes lose their luster and his mind becomes uncomfortable. Freedom is a child's most coveted possession. If he can retain some of it all through his life he will never lose the magic of Christmas. But I can hear you say, "This is sO impracticabl?, even if we let children have their way we grownups can't." I wonder if you are right. I once knew a family that allotted fifty cents or a dollar for each gift from each member of the family to each member. Well, the choice of gifts is always limited with monetary limitation, so there was nothing extraordinary in their day. It became routine, then a worry, then an obligation, and finally they did away with it entirely except "just for the children." People whose love is limited just to children have lost their freedom and with it their magic. They justify their stereotyped interest in Christmas by this THE MAGIC OF CHRISTMAS stereotyped phrase. They have ceased letting their love flow in all directions and merely satisfy their sense of duty. They have become onlookers to Christmas, not participants. There was another family and the mother would say, "Now when anyone of you gets an inspiration about a gift for anyone else you whisper it to me and we'll see what we can do about it. So there were whisperings and secret glances, and one year Clarabell would be the one to be lifted to the skies by the Great Surprise. Certainly it would be more pretentious than any one else's gift, but what did that matter? All rejoiced in the exclamation and tears of the elated one. There was no feeling of "I didn't get as much as Clarabell." Their thoughts had been directed toward giving, not getting. There was a need or a desire here and it was answered. The trulyChristmas heart finds the appropriate expression of love. But it need not be a costly gift. Magic came into a home one night with another kind of gift?a Christmas story typed on colored paper tied with ribbons carrying the message of joy. The story became a part of Christmas night before the Yuletide fire. It was about Jesus on His seventh birthday. The eyes of the children were big with wonder, the hearts of the parents were stirred. It was a Christmas that will never be erased. Surely Conningsby Dawson gave the world a memorable gift when he wrote the story, "The Seventh Christmas." A SPECIAL delight of the child's heart is to make something for someone. Here again we can be more thoughtful. The needle and the saw used to furnish the most 773 satisfying gifts; and when we take time for handwork we overflow with the joy of creation. The hands can eloquently bespeak the heart. A man once purchased an old walnut bedstead. From it he made footstools for all the grey haired ladies he knew. It was his one happy Christmas. And there is always candy and cake which mothers nowdays are inclined to underestimate. They need not apologize for such gifts; in this store-made world, hand made presents are most precious. And finally there is the supreme gift that every child gives as his own rare perfume. Many a person's Christmas has been made sublime by the words of a child, by this burst of sun from a cloud-free heart. And no one is bankrupt of words. In this realm at least we are free from budgets. We can send a message of love in words, which are indeed love's dearest messengers. The Christmas card was the answer to this desire. But it has changed. It has become more personal, and it becomes most personal of all when it is the very words of the sender in his own beloved handwriting. Just a thought riding out on a wave of love like a ship on the tide but a ship with a harbor and an anchor. It is the anchor to the magic of Christmas. Magic has as many modes of expression as people have varieties of thought and feeling. For these two are the creative forces in Christmas giving and Christmas living. Let this year hold its glory and its magic as well, and let it be your own kind of magic. If you need help, go to the heart of a child. For unless we become as a little child we cannot enter the heaven of Christmas.