Notes to the Field Literary Department IN January we begin our lessons on Abraham Lincoln. We suggest you be on the lookout for pictures and material to enrich them. Discuss with your children, Abraham Lincoln. They already know much about him. This will prove delightful and beneficial. Make a Lincoln scrapbook including in it pictures, prose and poetry. Undoubtedly one of the finest poems written about Lincoln is Edwin Markham's "Lincoln, the Man of the People." It would make a most interesting study to contrast the poem's description of Lincoln with the prose of Carl Sandberg's "Lincoln." Almost each thought in the poem could be enlarged from splendid incidents, stories and bits of philosophy from the Sandberg book. Work and Business Department THAT this department is most essential to the progress of the Relief Society, and a fundamental part of our work, has long since been proven. It was established in the very beginning, not only as a way to care for the needy, but to raise funds for maintenance, and to bring together the women of the Church in a friendly, social relationship. It would seem there was never greater need for these objectives than the present. There certainly was never greater demand for supplies of clothing, bedding and other supplies for those in need, and it is most gratifying to note the loyal, untiring support the Relief Society sisters are giving the Church relief project as well as caring for all emergencies and immediate demands. The sale of beautiful handwork, quilts, etc., and the giving of parties, bazaars and entertainments, both enliven the Winter months and provide means to carry on. All these things are a fine stimulant towards making our meetings pleasurable and profitable. Then the interest in the Gift Card Contest, together with the new outlines on Ornamental and Beautiful Things for Christmas, Color in the Home, Remodeling, Repairing and Refurnishing have awakened a keener delight in our book, Handicrafts for Every Woman. The third objective is surely not the least important?-that of the social, friendly relationship. Is it not a fact that the present trend of society towards worldly pleasures may separate our interests in community life, and take from us the finer qualities of neighborly love? Working together, to help people, gives great happiness to the soul and is a splendid antidote for selfishness.