VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15,1882	No. 16.


AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO 
SISTER S. M. KIMBALL.

Viva! Viva! health returning
	Fans thy cheek and lights thine eye!
And right glad am I, discerning
	Mental vigor, too, is nigh.

Treasured friend, my heart rejoices
	You're to health again restored;
In my soul are grateful voices, 
	God our prayers has not ignored.

On this first day of——eighty-two
	I would call a blessing down,
Asking life may come to you, 
	Adding jewels to your crown. 

Cast aside each load and fetter,
	That would chill, or bring regret,
But in wisdom grasp the better
	Part that life has for you YET!

Well you know that God is with you,
	Well you know He'll not forsake;
Oh! then unto yourself be true,
	And every bond and shackle break;

And walk as in the light of heaven,
	Leave the earth and earthly things,
And the sublunary leaven,
	That depression surely brings;

Loosely sit to things of earth,
	Lay your heart upon a shrine
Where no dross, no death, no dearth,
	Has power to crush that soul of thine!

There is work for you to do—
	This you know as well as I;
Let the future tell of you
	Deeds that time will e'er defy—

Viva! Viva! God now sends you
	Longer yet with us to dwell;
Angels from His Courts defend you.
	Viva! Viva! All is well.

					HANNAH T. KING.
January 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER OF
MARRIAGE.

	As the Leaders, or authorities of our nation
are seeking to bring us into bondage, except
we repudiate that sacred and vital principle of
our religion, viz., Plural Marriage, I feel like
taking up my pen in its defense, knowing that
God has revealed it to his Saints for their ex-
altation and also to purity the earth of the evils
and abominations under which it groans, at the
present time. There is a disposition among some
of our young people to deride and deny the di-
vine origin of that principle; trying to make
themselves believe that man was the originator;
Satan is putting these thoughts in their minds,
that he may gain power over them and thereby
use them as his tools in warring against that
Holy Order, for he hates it, because it came
from heaven and is calculated to redeem man-
kind from their low and degraded state, and
loosen his power and hold upon them; and be-
cause God has designed it as a means whereby
He may raise up a righteous seed in the earth,
that those noble spirits which He has held in
reserve, may have pure tabernacles, that they
may come with their heavenly power, and war
against sin and wickedness, even until Satan
and his emissaries are bound so that they have
no more power over the Saints. For there will
be a mighty power wielded, by those who are

[Column 2]
born in that Order, even such as has not been
known among the children of men, for the rea-
son, that there is a greater work to be done in
the last days than ever has been done before in
the history of the world. The wicked who are
plotting against us have no more conception of
the purity of motives of the men and women
who enter Plural Marriage, than they who
dwell in the infernal regions, know the feel-
ings and desires which actuate heavenly beings.
They judge us by the thoughts and desires of
their own corrupt hearts, whose imaginations
are evil continually, and it is a noted fact, that
the most corrupt and licentious are the ones
who are the most bitter against us, and who
propose the severest measures to do away with
our peculiar marriage institution. That one
fact should be a great proof of its purity and
truth, because like cleaves to like, and if it were
sinful in its nature the wicked would love it.
They do not labor so hard to do away with the
Social Evil, with all its train of crimes, because
that accords with their desires and practices
giving full license to their unhallowed appetites
and they will license that which degrades wo-
man and shortens her life, while they would
even use the sword to compel us to abandon
those principles, which are calculated to pro-
mote life, health and happiness and people the
earth with a superior race of beings. God has
implanted in the heart of every true woman a
desire to become a wife and mother, and it is
her inalienable right, but according to the sta-
ticties, there are so many thousands more wo-
men than men, and because of the proscriptive
laws enacted by men, it is impossible for that
righteous desire to be gratified, and there are
thousands of women who go to the grave un-
married, and many thousands more who are
ruined and forsaken to lead lives of shame and
perhaps die in the street, who would love home,
husband and children, as well as you or I, and
would make as good wives, if that sacred right
were only granted them. Let the young pon-
der upon these things, and the Spirit of God
will bear testimony to their spirits, that they
are true, for just as sure as God has spoken
from the heavens in this our day, so sure is
Plural Marriage one of the principles He has
commanded his children to obey, and none can
disobey it, and be exalted in His presence; He
has spoken it, and His word cannot fail.
	Many profess to believe in every principle of
our religion. Plural Marriage excepted, what
an inconsistency! believe that a man can be a
prophet of God and yet practice sin? I could
believe no such thing. It must either all be
true, or all false, But we know our religion is
true in its entirety, because the fruits thereof
are peace, joy and happiness here in this life,
and the Savior said, "a tree is known by its
fruits, men do not gather grapes of thorns nor
figs of thristles." We the daughters of Zion
are going to step forward, and stand side by
side with our brothers, in upholding every doc-
trine of our Church, Plural Marriage included,
and we will say to our sisters 'come share with
me, my husband and home and we will love
each other, and labor for each other's welfare
as we do for our own." We will show to the
world that we live in that order from choice,
not from compulsion, and we will continue to
bear testimony that God's special blessings rest
upon those who are striving to live that Holy
Order in purity before Him.
								MARY F


SOME FASHIONABLE DOINGS.

	An elegant residence on one of the fashion-
able streets of——was the scene, within the
past few days, of a party given in honor of the
young Miss of the household, who is just enter-
ing upon the giddy walk of a fashionable and
aimless life. This girl is not yet out of her
teens, and were she a member of one of the
old English households, she would still be in
her pinafores, with her mind occupied in useful
study, carefully chaperoned by an older and
wiser head, until such time as her mind and
body were mature enough to be trusted in so-
ciety. The father and mother of this girl are
considered people of common sense, and would
be surprised indeed if society should call them
to account for indiscretion, to say nothing of
wickedness; in their influence on the young
people invited to be their guests on the occasion
of their recent party. But if reports are true,
and they are certainly very reliable, the con-
duct permitted at this party was such as to
make every mother blush who allowed her son
or daughter to participate in the festivities.
Notwithstanding the fact that nearly every boy
and girl present were under twenty years of
age, a room up stairs was set apart by this
model (?) mother, this aristocratic hostess, for
the purpose of a general smoke. Cigarettes
were furnished, and both boys and girls repaired
thereto and smoked a la the lowest den in the
lowest part of a city. Only two present, a
young lady and her escort, refused to join the
upstairs company, their disgust being so great
that they declared, "If that is —— society, I
want none in mine." There is much more that
might be said upon this subject, and there is
much more that some parents in —— might
well open their eyes and see before it is too
late, with reference to the conduct of these
boys and girls who are "Germanizing" their
winter evenings and their morals away. One
thing is certain: when people pretending to so-
cial standing will set apart a "smoking room"
in a private house on the occasion of a select
party, when they allow boys and girls (and it is
no worse for the one than the other) to repair
to such a place and disease themselves with
poisoned cigarettes, something is wrong, and
respectable people ought to draw the lines on
these families and relegate them to the lower
strata of society, to which they properly belong,
notwithstanding the gilding of furniture and
assumed respectability. Every mother should
feel that her son or daughter were corrupted
by such associations, and ever debar them, in
the future, from the possibility of such under
the guise of fashionable respectability. If this
practice becomes common, the name of host
and hostess, as well as smokers, shall be given
to the readers of Our Herald without fear or
favor. Mothers who are so lost to all that is
decent as to permit and encourage such con-
duct from the young under their care, should
be held up to public gaze along with the saloon
keeper, who finishes the task of corrupting
those who began their downward course in the
homes of these women from whom society has
a right to expect something better.—H. M. G.
in Our Herald.


MISS M. E. Harding has taken the Queen's
gold medal, and Miss Constance Wood the
Queen's scholarship, in the competition at the 
London Female School of Art.—Ex.


122	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	It being truths instead of fiction that I am
writing, I hope to be pardoned for wandering
back again to gather up life incidents. The
history of the Apostles, or the Latter-day
Saints in Commerce, might be read with profit,
particularily by those who, in these days, may
possibly think their lot the hardest. Then the
world might well have called "Mormons"
wretched, and a decrepit and dying out people;
but their spirits were generally buoyant—even
in the darkest hour the Comforter was with
them. Though left as our mothers were, strug-
gling with poverty, disease and death, it was
no wonder that, at times, their faith should al-
most fail them. The husband and father called
to leave them in this sad and helpless condition,
not knowing whether they would ever meet
again upon this earth; taking their lives in
their hands, with no worldly compensation of-
fered them for their sufferings and the sacrifice
of their beloved wives, children and homes,
they went forth without purse or scrip to carry
glad tidings to the nations of the earth, where
they would have to combat all the evils, the
prejudices and  difficulties with which the world
was filled. What more could they do to prove
their integrity, their zeal and sublime devotion
to the work which they had espoused? Truly
"they went forth weeping, bearing precious
seed; but returned rejoicing, bearing their
sheaves with them."
	The following lines are from a letter written
by my father after a very narrow escape from
death, occasioned by an overdose of morphine,
administered by a drunken doctor to give him
relief. It is dated

"PLEASANT GARDEN, Oct. 24, 1837.

MY DEAR COMPANION:
	"Through the goodness of God I am per-
mitted this morning to sit down to write a few
lines to you, that you may know how I get
along upon my journey. I assure you that it
is with trembling limbs that I do it, but to ful-
fil my word that I made to you I proceed."
After giving the particulars concerning his suf-
fering and miraculous escape (which have been
published) he continues: "My courage is good,
and has been ever since I left home. Do not
feel concerned about me, for I am in the hands
of God. Never in my life have I undergone
more in my feelings than since I left home
about you and the children. Tell me all about
them; how they get along. Tell William and
Helen I think of them all the time; that I
pray for them, and that I want them to pray
for me. Tell little Heber to be a good boy,
and kiss little David for me. Be prudent, and
take care of yourself.	*	*	*	Give my love
to all my friends. And now I bid you fare-
well for a little season.
					HEBER C. KIMBALL."

	His next letter is dated Kirtland, Nov. 16,
1839; but being too feeble to sit up, Brother
Dean Gould wrote the most of it for him. He
says:
	"I have arrived safe in Kirtland, but at the
present time I am confined to my bed; have
been quite low for several days, but through
the grace of God I shall be able to go forth on
my way rejoicing, to do the will of my heav-
enly Master.	*	*	I have made it my home
at Bro. John Young's Brother Bond's and
Dean Gould's, and have received the best of
care. Last Sabbath Bro. John Taylor spoke
in the forenoon, and I in the afternoon; had
very good liberty. I spoke in  parables gener-
ally, and some of  them being so applicable to
those that were before me; a judge came to me
and wanted to know  whom I referred; I told
him to no one in particular, but if the coat
fitted any one they might put it on.

[Column 2]
	"Some others of the brethren have preached
and gave good satisfaction; but as a general
thing there cannot be a meeting without some
dispute, yet there are some few who stand firm
in the faith. I am greatly disappointed; I ex-
pected to find the brethren united and enjoying
the blessings of the people of God, but found
them broken up and divided into several par-
ties.	*	*	*
	"Brother Taylor has been sick several days
with the ague, and the rest of the brethren
have been quite unwell, but are now on the
gain. We still, God being our helper, feel de-
termined to press our way onward. We have
but little means to prosecute our journey, but
still we think that some of us will be able to
start within a few days." He closes the letter
with his own hand. He says: "You see that
this letter is written by a strange hand. Bro.
Bond and wife are true and streadfast; are
much pleased that you are coming here. I
have seen but few of the brethren, only in pub-
lic; they have had several evening meetings. I
have not been able to attend but one, and that
was last Sabbath. I have got a very bad
cough; took cold riding nights. I think I
came near the time of my release when at
Pleasant Garden. But be of good cheer, my
dear Vilate, for this is only one more trial
above the rest, so we have gained one more
victory over the devil."
	In the suffering condition of the Saints who
had sought refuge from the Christian mobbers
of Missouri, and were lying sick and dying in
Commerce, it looked impossible for their fami-
lies to exist in their absence and under their
impoverished circumstances. My father, Brig-
ham Young and others felt that there would
be no objections raised to their visiting among
kindred and friends during their missionary
labors in Europe. According to the following
letter from father, dated "Victor, State of New
York, Dec. 27, he and  brethren left Kirtland
on the 22d of November for Fairport, where
they were detained until the 26th by a tremen-
dous snow storm; took steamer and landed at
buffalo on the morning of the 27th. Took
stage the same day and went to Batavia; stayed
there till the next day, and in the afternoon
took the cars for Rochester. Father says:
"When we got to Byron I got out and left the
brethren, supposing Hall (his sister Eliza's
husband) was living there; had not more than
got out before I was told that he had gone to
Rochester. I think I never felt worse in my
life—my  anticipations were so great to see
them; but I could not get away until the next
night. Just at evening got aboard the cars
and got to Hall's at eight o'clock in the eve-
ning; found them well and rejoiced to see me.
I stayed there one week, and was confined to
my bed part of the time. I took cold on
board the steam boat; had to take deck fare
for want of means. The cold settled in my
right side, and was so bad I could hardly draw
my breath. Brother Thayre carried me to
brother Solomon's; found them well and glad
enough to see me. Your letter got to Mendon
about three weeks before I did. Sister Hall
was at Solomon's, and advised him to take it
out. He did so; they broke it open, but could
not tell where I was, supposed that I was dead,
and had many bad feelings about me. There
seems to be a great feeling of sympathy for us
here. I have received great kindness from our
friends in Victor. Several strangers have called
to see me, and Lucretia (my mother's sister)
introduced me as her "Mormon" brother. They
appeared to take a great interest in our suffer-
ings. This seems to be the feeling of all can-
did people. When I presented the presents
you sent Lucretia, she wept over them, desir-
ing to see your dear face once more. They
wept over some of your letters, and laughed at
the rest.	*	* All of our friends want you
to come here next Spring and make them a

[Column 3]
visit. Caroline (his brother Solomon's wife)
says she will keep you three months or more,
and all our friends seem to have the same feel-
ing. They want me to go after you, which
would be a pleasure for me to do, but this will
not do; for my face is turned thitherward, for
he that looketh back is not fit for the kingdom
of heaven, and you would consider yourself
disgraced in the sight of God and man.
	"My dear Vilate, you know what we are
called to do; we will press forward to the mark
which is laid before us at the expense of all
things. I was thankful to God to hear of your
health, for I believe it is He who has raised
you and the children up, for when I was in the
town of Winchester, at Father Murray's, I had
such a travail of soul for you as I never had
before. I would go into the woods four and
five times a day to call on the Father in the
name of Jesus for you.. I saw you in a dream
in a sickly state, almost dead; I clasped my
hands on each side of your face and raised you
upon your feet. And since that I have felt
contented about you and the children; but once
in a while, being among our kindred, it brings
home back to me, and I feel a little homesick.
They are all pleading with me to stay till warm
weather, on account of my poor health. A
little fatigue brings me down again.	*	*	*
	Dear Vilate, I hardly know how to express
my joy, but  suffice it to say, on the first day of
the year one thousand eight hundred and forty
I went into the water and baptized William E.
Murray and wife, and they are rejoicing in
God. The weather was as cold as it was when
we joined ourselves to the Baptist church. They
are very faithful, and remember you in their
prayers. Your father says Gould can't begin
to pray like them; says it beats all that he
ever saw. He has become firm in the faith
and preaches it wherever he goes. He said to
me one day, "Heber, I am as good a 'Mormon'
as you are." He is a great advocate for this
work, and seems uneasy here, and wants to go
back to the West. Says he would not stay
here if he could have all the town of Victor,
for the people don't seem to him as they did.
Your brother Gould and wife are about the
same as ever, very proud.	*	*
	"Bring all the little chickens with you. Sis-
ter Eliza wonld like to have one of them come
there and go to school. Sister Malvina would
take one, and I will pay them for it. Now,
my dear Vilate, you know this would be better
than to have them strolling around the country.
Take counsel of some of our fathers in Israel,
and see what they think best to do, for in much
counsel there is safety. As for going to Kirt-
land to live, as things are now it is against my
will; for I had rather live in a cave, or be
driven with the Saints every year while I live,
and be one with them, than to have all the
good things of the earth and be at variance
one with the other as they are there. I had
rather go forth amongst the unbelieving Gen-
tiles, and suffer by them, than be among such
poeple as those who have named the name of
Mormon. I pray my heavenly Father to de-
liver me from such while I live. If it be pos-
sible let teh cup pass from me. Amen."
	My Grandfather Murray, though a believer
in this Gospel, had not obeyed the ordinance of
baptism; but when he went back with father to
visit his family and friends, he could see the
beauties of "Mormonism," which made him a
strong advocate; but he died there in Victor
not long after father left him, and on his death-
bed he expressed his sorrow at not rendering
obedience to its requriements.
			To be continued.


THE public schools of Boston employ
twelve hundred and seventy-six teachers, of
whom 198 are men and 1078 are women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW YEAR’S EVE.

The evening closes around me,
And folds me in silent thought;
The year I have left behind me
By Memory’s hand is brought,
The poor old year, with his failing eyes,
Falls down at my feet with soft, dying cries.

Old man, I say, thou’st given me
Happiness sweet and rare;
But sometimes thou hast driven me
On to the reefs of care.
The dying year, with his peaceful eyes,
At my chiding words, shows no surprise.

Of love, I have had full measure,
I've tasted a mother's bliss,
But in vain I've felt the longing
For my absent darling's kiss.
While I thus complain, the midnight hour
Chimes through the room with a solemn power.

The sound and the thrill die away,
And silence is all around;
I stoop with reverent feeling
To lift old Time from the ground--
But instead, a babe with wide, innocent eyes
Looks up from my knee with a sweet surprise.

O babe, unclose thy little hand,
And show me the days in store:
Will I see as much of love and peace
As I have in the year before?
But the babe looks up with his innocent eyes,
And to my anxious questions gives no replies.

O babe, I will crown thy forehead
With love flowers pure and sweet;
I will wrap thee with robes of charity,
with patience will sandal thy feet;
If thou wilt but let me my darling see--
And the baby sighs as he lies on my knee.

Then up he starts to leave me,
And whispers, "I'll come again;
Your blessings are great, believe me,
Don't mourn for that which is vain!"
So the New Year soars away from my knee,
And leaves me to prove what my future will be.
						HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	A ﻿DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.
		Zina D. H. Young
			CONTINUED.
	Under the able management of Sister Zina,
and the board of officers cooperating together,
a great deal of good was accomplished in seri-
culture after the organization of the Deseret
Silk Association. Mulberry trees were planted
and cocoons raised in every part of the Terri-
tory where the climate would permit. A good
article of silk was manufactured without ma-
chinery, or with such as could be obtained at
home. The enterprise grew and increased
while Sister Zina labored indefatigably for its
promotion. Her labors were of such a char-
acter that, looking back upon them to-day,
one might think they were of little consequence;
but those who know what it is to begin with
nothing and found any business, or industry,
will be able to comprehend something of the
difficulties and obstacles to be overcome in
making a thing of this kind successful. The
details of such work can never be given; the
amount of energy expended, or brain force
brought to bear upon the subject in laboring
to make its advantages understood.
	In all departments of woman's labor for the
public good, Sister Zina has been found at her
post, doing her share of active work in the best
manner possible. She has traveled much and
widely among the different settlements, visiting
the organized societies, or assisting Sister Eliza
or the local authorities in organizing. Wher-
ever woman's help is needed in any public in-
terest for the good of Zion, there she is to be
found laboring with zeal and her utmost ability,
side by side with Sister Eliza, for the advance-
ment of truth.

[Column 2]
	At a Mass Meeting of ladies in this city;
held Nov. 16, 1878, Sister Zina delivered a
very eloquent impromptu address, and perhaps
it would not be amiss at the present time to
make an extract therefrom. The address was
favorably commented upon by the press abroad:
	"The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I be-
seech the earth to be still, and the brave men
who possess the spirit of a Washington to hear
what I am about to say. I am a daughter of
a Master Mason! I am the widow of a Master
Mason, who, when leaping from the window of
Carthage Jail pierced with bullets, made the
Masonic sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (ad-
dressing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded, ex-
cept by the God of heaven. That man, the
Prophet of the Almighty, was massacred with-
out mercy!  *  *  Sisters, this is the first
time in my life that I have dared to give utter-
ance to this fact, but I thought I could trust
my soul to say it on this occasion; and I say it
now in the fear of Israel's God. and I say it in
the presence of these gentlemen, and I wish
my voice could be heard by the whole brother-
hood of Masons throughout our proud land.
That institution I honor. If its principles
were practised and strictly adhered to, would
there be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be in-
truded upon with impunity? Nay, verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with the
honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head; would that
the Congress of the United States, the law-
makers of our nation, could produce a balm for
the many evils which exist in our land through
the abuse of virtue, or could so legislate that
virtue could be protected and cherished as the
life which heaven has given us! We, in com-
mon with many women throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of such
deliverance, for such  is the deliverance that
woman needs.
	"The principle of plural marriage is honor-
able; it is a principle of the Gods, it is heaven-
born. God revealed it to us among other
things as a saving principle; we have accepted
it as such, and we know it is of Him, for the
fruits of it are holy. Worthy men and women
of old practised it, even the Savior himself
traces his lineage back to polygamic parents.
	We are proud of the principle, because we
understand its true worth, and we want our
children to practice it, that through us a race
of men and women may grow up possessing
sound minds in sound bodies, who shall live to
the age of a tree.'"
	This is only a part of one of Mrs. Young's
speeches, but will give the reader perhaps some
idea of the ability of the lady as a public
speaker. Had she been educated for the plat-
form, and spoken upon other subjects, she
would doubtless have received many encomiums
of praise and won distinction in the lecture
field; but being only a "Mormon;" she is con-
tent with the love of her own people, and am-
bition to do good to others inspires her to move
forward wherever duty calls her for the benefit
of womankind and the interests of Zion. And
in pursuing this course she finds her highest
happiness.
	During the summer of 1879 Sister Zina's
health seemed to demand a change of climate
and of scene, and she decided to take a trip to
the Sandwich Islands to recuperate. She was
accompanied by Miss Susie Young, one of the
daughters of Prest. B. Young. While away
on this tour she met many people of note, to
whom she had an opportunity of speaking upon
the principles of our religion, and she distrib-
uted many books and tracts setting forth cor-
rect ideas of our faith and of our people gen-
erally. Great respect was paid to her every-
where, and upon the Hawaiian Islands she was
almost constantly feted and honored by the af-
fectionate and simple-minded natives. She as-
sisted the native members of the Church there
in getting an organ for use in their meetings
and Sunday Schools, and contributed liberally
for other benevolent purposes. In fact, Sister
Zina has always given liberally to the poor
aod for public benefits. No woman in Israel,
perhaps, has more friends among the poor than
she has, for she possesses that ready tact of
sayling kind words and pleasant things at a
happy time, besides having the faculty of giv-
ing alms gracefully.
	Her visit to the Sandwich Islands greatly
improved her health, and on returning home
she commenced laboring again in her active
public duties.
			To be continued.


REMARKS BY ZINA Y. WILLIAMS

AT A WOMANS MEETING DEC. 3, 1881.

	Mrs. Williams said she rejoiced in the privi-
lege of mingling her voice with her sisters in
Salt Lake City. Said the same spirit pervaded
the assemblies of the Saints in Provo that
reigned here. Spoke eloquently upon the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage. Said our enemies
are seeking to uproot and destroy that vital
principle of our religion, and we, the daugh-
ters of Zion, should step forth and use all our
powers to maintain it. We should teach our
children that it is a pure and holy order, and
will exalt and ennoble all who live it accord-
ing to the spirit thereof. When selfishness is
put away, and we can love our sisters as our-
selves, then we can be happy. What is going
to stay the terrible tide of corruption which is
sweeping over the earth? Nothing but that
same holy principle; for the leading minds of
the age have labored in vain, while wickedness
is increasing daily and hourly; Mothers, Satan
is seeking to destroy our children; let us be on
our guard, that we may prepare them to take
the places of the older ones who are continu-
ally passing away.
	We all have trials to pass through, but we
should not sit down and fold our hands, allow-
ing them to curtail our usefulness. Let us ask
God to give us strength to bear what He gives
us to bear, working faithfully and unceasingly
to further the advancement of this great work,
which is committed to our charge. We should
also train our children to habits of industry,
which will save them from many evils.
	Alluded to the Brigham Young Academy in
Provo. Said God was with and blessed those
who acted as teachers there. That is the school
where parents can send their children, and be
sure their hearts will be educated as well as
their brain.					M. A. B. F.


LADY Duffus Hardy tells her readers in
England that if any one travels in America in
perfect comfort and freedom from anxiety, it is
the unprotected woman, to whom all men yield
deference and respectful assistance. She is
very sorry  her own countrymen are not always
decent and polite at such times.—Ex.
 THE alleged decree excluding women from
public offices will displace women from the post-
offices of Richmond, Va., and Louisville, Ky.,
who fill these positions so acceptably that no
ground of removal can be found except their
sex. It will displace hundred of widows, to
make places for office hunters. This infamous
order will strike Miss Sweet, pension agent of
Chicago, who has filled the position with great
ability for many years. But it will serve a
purpose in showing the uneven chance a wo-
man has for place and position just because of
her disfranchisement.—Ex.


124	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	—	JANUARY 15, 1882.


EVERYBODY'S TALKING OF UTAH.

   At present the small portion of territory known
as Utah, and occupied mostly by "Mormons," is
the place to which all eyes are turned; and all
sorts of schemes are being concocted to destroy
and break down the power of the people, who
were the first settlers of these then barren val-
leys. Various bills are being introduced into
Congress by worldly wise and learned men, cal-
culated to enforce severe measures, and, in fact,
to oppress this now free and independent people.
The prosperity of Utah, the industry and thrift
of her inhabitants, are no consideration in the
minds of those who are working to destroy the
institutions which this people have exerted their
best efforts in laboring to establish.  They can-
not see that it is the very existence and efficacy
of the peculiar regulations of which they com-
plain, that has helped to produce the prosperity
and general happy conditions that are remarked
upon by all unprejudiced men and women who
deal in facts.
   So earnest and indefatigable are the leaders of
one of the largest religious bodies in the country,
that they have presented a memorial of the gen-
eral assembly of their church to President Ar-
thur, which he has transmitted to the House
among other important documents.  The me-
morial has been referred. So much is being at-
tempted, and so many suggestions are being
made to the Executive power of the nation, that
one would naturally think that "Mormonism"
would be blotted out.  But there are those out-
side the Church of Latter-day Saints that are
far-seeing enough to realize that nothing of this
kind will hinder the work, and who believe there
is a power in this kingdom that will manifest it-
self in the growth of a Western empire.
   Senator Morgan has acknowledged in his
speech in the Senate "that there is not such a
missionary establishment in the world belonging
to any church whatever."
   At the present time, those who are clamoring
for special legislation seem anxious that women
should be dealt with.  They begin to fear the
political potency of woman as a citizen.  They
would wrest the ballot from the women of
Utah for the same reason that prompted them to
suggest the measure. The Senator from Ala-
bama is very greatly interested in suffrage cer-
tainly.  He does not forget to state in one por-
tion of his speech that "the power of the ballot
is attended with the responsibility of this repre-
sentative character," that "it adds much to the
dignity and value of an American citizen in all
the different departments," etc.  However, we
are very glad he did not have power to hinder
the appointing of a special committee on Woman
Suffrage, and hope his influence may be as weak
on the "Mormon" question, for he proposes to
take from the women of Utah the elective fran-
chise, which they esteem as a gift from God.
Mormon women think it as much a duty to vote
consientiously as to pray conscientiously. If
there is any woman who does not vote thus hon-
estly, she sins against herself, for there is no
reason whatever shy she should not vote ac-
cording to her convictions of right, if she is pos-
sessed of ordinary intelligence.
   Surely there are honorable men in Congress
who favor woman suffrage, who will not silently
consent to its being taken from Utah after twelve
years' exercise of the ballot here.
   The brave women who have helped to settle
these waste places in the heart of the Great
American Desert are worthy of some political
consideration. If the Alabama Senator persists
in pushing matters to the extreme against "Mor-
mon" women on the question of misuse of the
ballot, it might be a good plan to adopt the
method of the old lady in Vermont, and send
him a box of butternut candy. We are inclined
to think the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will make some suggestions to President
Arthur about postmistresses that will not be
nearly as "delicious" as the butternut candy was
on Thanksgiving day.


UTAH LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.

	The members of the Legislature of Utah
elected for the present session convened in the
Legislative Hall in this city on Monday, Jan. 9,
at 2 p. m. The Council and House both organ- 
ized permanently, and Acting Governor Thomas
administered the oath of membership to the
Legislators. After which a message from the
Council requested a joint session to receive the
Governor's Message. The joint session was or-
dered. Secretary Thomas, as Acting Governor,
then proceeded with the message and some other
written documents. We have neither the space
to give to the Governor's message nor the com-
ments which might with propriety be made
upon it, but would advise every woman inter-
ested in the general welfare of the Territory to
read it carefully for herself.
	Jan. 10. After some preliminary business had
been disposed of, the report of the committees
to draft rules for the government of the House
was rendered; rules read, and after a little dis-
cussion report was accepted, and it was ordered
that the rules be printed.
	Jan. 11. The day was occupied by the Legis-
lature mostly in the appointing of committees
for such adjudication as is necessary in the trans-’
action of special business.
	The Legislature seems already to be in work-
ing order, and from present indications a great
deal of good will be accomplished in a short
time.
	The ladies should manifest their interest in
the public good being done by these honorable
gentlemen by visiting the Assembly as circum-
stances may permit. Although the freedom of
the House or Council has not been extended to
ladies, yet as the women of Utah are entitled to
vote, they ought to be sufficiently interested in
the public welfare to avail themselves of any le-
gitimate opportunity of seeing how business of
this kind is transacted; in fact, how the laws are
made by which themselves and their children
are to be governed. The indifference manifested
by some intelligent persons, both men and wo-
men, to matters of vital importance is to be de-
plored, for as has been wisely and truly said
“Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty;" and
in our humble opinion, it is the vigilance of the
whole people, not of a few, that is needed to pre-
serve and maintain liberty.


HOME AFFAIRS.

   GOVERNOR Murray is in Washington, and of
course using his influence against the "Mormons."
Judge Hunter is also there, and it is said His
Excellency and the Chief Justice are not the
best of friends.
   WE received a pleasant call on Saturday, the
14th inst., from Miss Ida Ione Cooke, Principal
of the Brigham Young College at Logan. She
gives a good report of the condition of the Semi-
nary, and also of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Cache
County.
   THERE will be a Conference of the Young Peo-
ple's Associations of this Stake of Zion held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sunday, Jan. 22.
It will no doubt be an interesting meeting, and
al who have the future interest of Zion at heart
should attend if possible.
   THE Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th Ward was re-
organized Tuesday, Jan. 3; Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, President; Mrs. Annie E. Hyde and Miss
Belle Clayton, Counselors; Miss E. A. Davis,
Secretary; Miss  Zina Hyde, Treasurer.  Some new
members have been enrolled.  Two meetings
have already been held since the organization,
at the residence of Mrs. Dougall, and there
seems to be a renewal of interest in the work of
improvement.
   THE Gardo House, which has been some
time in preparation, is at last occupied by the
President of the church, who held a reception
suitable to the celebration of such an event on
New Year's Day. About two thousand people
at that time shook hands with President Taylor,
wishing him a Happy New Year and many of
them in his new home, and afterwards partook
of delicious refreshments served for the occasion.
A few of his friends remained to dine with him.
We add our congratulations to those of thou-
sands of others, and with the President prosper-
ity and happiness, the favor of God and the love
of the Latter-day Saints.
   THE anniversary of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Tenth Ward of this city was celebrated on
Thursday, Jan. 12; meeting was held in the
schoolhouse at 2 p. m., Mrs. M. J. Pierce presid-
ing.  Minutes of previous annual meeting were
read and accepted.  Addresses upon subjects of
special importance to the young were given by
Sisters M. A. B. Freeze, M. I. Horne and E. B.
Wells, following which seven of the young lady
members made a few brief remarks.  Counselor
James Woods occupied a short time in speaking,
and the President, Mrs. Pierce, made a few clos-
ing remarks, expressing her gratitude to the sis-
ters who had come to encourage them in their
Association.  A party was given in the evening
in honor of the anniversay.
 AT the recent Stake Conference in this city
the dedication of the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
took place, on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 8, with
appropriate services.  The choir sang the hymn,
"This house we dedicate to thee." President
Joseph F Smith offered the dedicatory prayer,
and in the most humble and earnest manner
dedicated the building, including every part and
portion thereof, to the Lord. The choir then
sang, "He died, the great Redeemer died." The
sacrament was administered, and Apostle Eras-
tus Snow first addressed the congregation, and
was followed by President John Taylor, who
spoke with great power concerning the affairs of
the nation. Choir sang  the anthem, "Awake,
put on thy strength, O Zion."
   A primary Association was organized in the
Seventh Ward Wednesday Jan. 4, 1882.  Bishop
Thorne and Counselors were present, and Mrs.
Alice Nedham Pres. of the Relief Society of the
Ward. her board of officers and many of the mem-
bers.  Sisters M. I. Horne, E. Howard, E. B.
Wells and Louie Felt, were present by invitation.
   The following officers were elected Mrs. Wells


officiating in the organization. Minnie He
James President, Jane Jones and Ellen Broad-
bent, Counselors, Alice McLach[-]in, Secretary,
Mary Alice Lambert Assistant Secretary, John
W. Walker, Treasurer. Eighty-six members
were enrolled. Remarks were made sutiable to
the occasion by Sisters Louie Felt and E.
Howard.
	The meeting was adjourned and the Annual
meeting of the Relief Socitey was held at the
same place at 4 o'clock P. M., Mrs. Alice Need-
ham presiding. Minutes were read and also an
annual report, which was very creditable indeed,
showing that the sisters in that ward had been
actively engaged in doing good, and helping to
build up Zion. Bishop Thorne and Counselors
seemed much pleased with the day's proceedings,
and expressed a good feeling and interest in the
work of these organizations.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


LETTER FROM WASHINGTON.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 26, 1881.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister--Your esteemed communication
of the 20th inst. has just reached me, and has
been perused with pleasure and satisfaction. I
am glad to see that you [-]ake the interest in mat-
ters here, and in the proposed measures against
us, which your letter evinces. it augurs well
for us, for our children and the future of our
cause when the women of Zion feel that there
is a public part which they can and are willing
to perform in repellin assaults upon them and
their households; and this is one of the results
which I have desired and anticipated would fol-
low the encouraging of women during the past
few years among us to enlarge the sphere of
their sex. Much is said about the right of suf-
frage for women; but that is only one of the
small expressions of freedom among us. It, of
itself, is not much of an indication. for the rea-
son that there has never been any distinction
between the sexes in voting, either in religious
or political gatherings from the time we left
Nauvoo, and in fact from the beginning of the
Church, until the present. The indifference of
many womon to matters which are of vital im-
portance to them I have always deplored. While
there are many things which do not fall to wo-
man's province to attend to, there are others in
which she should be interested and take her
part, as well as her brother, her father, her hus-
band or her sons. I think the time has come
for woman to assume her proper share of re-
sponsibility in this work. She has magnificent
opportunities presented to her, and I doubt not
that, among us, she will avail herself of them.
	This sin-cursed world has to be emancipated.
The fruitful cause of many of the woes under
which humanity groans is the badly regulated
relations of the sexes, and these are traceable to
the indadequate marriage system now in vogue.
God having revealed a system to correct these
evils, every effort is being made to create a pub-
lic opinion hostile to it, by means of which its
destruction can be effected. And upon no one
point is there more falsehood and misrepresen-
tation circulated than upon the effect plural
marriage is having upon woman. Polygamy in
oriental lands, where harems and seraglios are
replenished from the slave market, and women
are immured from seciety and the world in jeal-
ously guarded and walled-in houses, and are
treated as an inferior order of beings, can furnish
no correct idea of the effect of plural marriage
upon the women of our Church, with their sur-
roundings and advantages; yet the popular ideas
of to day concerning our women are based upon
oriental polygamy. The assertion is confidently

[Column 2]
made that we are fostering a system which de-
grades woman and makes her the slave of man's
lust, instead of the sharer in his joys. Very few
can conceive, or will even think of the possibility
of any other effects than these following plural
marriage. While we know that under our sys-
tem of marriage the most unselfish, heroic and
well-developed type of womankind is to be
found, unequalled by any that exist anywhere
among men. I am confident, from my observa-
tion and experience, that a standard of excel-
lence is being reached by our women who are
true to their principles, under our system of
plural  marriage, which approaches nearer to the
angelic than can be found anywhere else on earth.
It is very true that this is not the result in every
instance, but that is not the fault of the system.
Now, the world does not believe this; in fact,
it believes the very opposite of this; and what a
magnificent opportunity there is for our women
to make the truth known to it. I hope to see
the day, and that, too, before many years elapse,
when we shall have the best educated, cultivated
and endowed women to be found anywhere; wo-
men so superior in physical and mental vigor,
and in every department which belongs to their
sex, that it will only be necessary to know them
for the lies and misconceptions which exist con-
cerning plural marriage to be swept away. We
cannot become the people which God has prom-
ised we shall be, according to my view, by the
development of the men alone; the women must
keep pace with and stand beside them; and
hence, I have always been a warm advocate of
giving woman every encouragement and oppor-
tunity to develop and exercise all her powers. I
desire to see our daughters acquire every accom
plishment, to understand every subject of hu-
man thought, to receive as broad and compre-
hensive an education to fit each one of them for
her sphere as her brother ought to receive to
qualify him for his.
	You say: "You may not have the faith in wo-
man's diplomacy that I have." Perhaps not;
but I think very highly of her and that which
she can accomplish when she engages in it with
zeal. Much can be done and ought to be done
by all of us to counteract the lies which are cir-
culated by the anti-polygamy women and others
But there is this which is plain to me: we can-
not accomplish it in the same way. It is not al-
ways the best to repel one of their attacks by re-
course to the same method which they use to
make it. They have their methods, and we have
ours. I must say, though, theirs is not so effec-
tive as ours, for the reason, as a rule, theirs is
confined to words; ours consist of both words and
deeds. Lying and misrepresenting are their
only methods of assault. Our defence is not
confined to circulating contradictions of them.
On this account, that which they circulate does
not affect me as it once did. I thought we ought
to be more active in contradicting; but now,
while I think it is our duty to be vigilant and
ready to expose their falsehoods on all proper oc-
casions, I have become satisfied that they can
and will lie faster, than we can contradict in the
time we have to spare. It is apparent that we
must live down their misrepresentations, and
let our lives, their deeds and all their fruits do
for us that which our denials and protestations
cannot do. Yet we should let no opportunity
slip where we can let the truth be known. Print-
er's ink can perform a mighty work in this con-
test, and we should fully avail ourselves of it.
Your suggestion about petitions is a good one.
At the present they will not accomplish that
which they will do when we get into the thick
of the fight. It will be then that we shall have
to strike our most telling blows.
*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	By this time you will be tired of this long

[Column 3]
screed, which I had no intention of writing when
I commenced. Pardon it. You do not say a
word about Annie and Geo. Q.; I accept your
silence as an evidence that they are well. Give
them my love; also Louie and Brother Wells,
also our mutual lady and other friends.	*	*
	I was pained to hear of Sister Heywood's
death; but was gratified to learn Sister Kimball
is recovering. The Lord bless you. I am your
brother,					GEO. Q. CANNON.


GOOD RESOLUTIONS.

	The beginning of the new year is the time
of all times when one feels like making good
resolutions; to renew courage and strength for
the battle of life. It is like turning a pleasant
corner when tired of a rough road, and look-
ing forward one anticipates smoother traveling.
Hopeful people are sure to feel buoyed up, and
new aspirations are often born in the soul.
Desires to obtain knowledge, to be more dili-
gent in the path of duty, to persevere in re-
moving obstacles that beset and hinder us in
the accomplishment. of the good we are striving
for. There is always, silently at least, a hope
that the new year will bring more of happi-
ness than of sorrow, and that we may make
steady, if not rapid improvement and growth
in those things that seem to us most desirable
to attain to. Many promises made in good
faith may be broken, and no doubt are, but
a little good seed is perchance sown even by
promising one's self, for an exertion to do good
and overcome the evil must be more or less
beneficial. We are in some measure the crea-
tures of circumstances, and as Paul said,
"When we would do good evil is present with
us," yet by great efforts and continuous persis-
tence, a few, yes many, attain to a very high
standard of excellence. Others look on per-
haps and think it was very easy for that person
to be good, everything favored the condition.
Such may be the case in some instances, but
one cannot judge by appearances. The rough
road may have been uncomplainingly traveled,
and not even a sigh have given token of the
wounds or distress experienced, but only the
one who knows the secrets of all hearts, has
been the witness of the self-denial, the earnest
prayers offered up for strength to overcome.
	It is a blessing to us all that we have times
and seasons that seem to be special reminders
of the duties we owe to each other, to ourselves
and to Our Father in heaven. And for this
reason if for no other the New Year should
bring joy and gladness. Good resolutions are
the awakening of the soul to a higher and better
standard and indeed they may be called step-
ping stones to a clearer and brighter atmosphere.
There are discouragements to be sure even
when one has gained some foothold in the right
direction for there are many alluring ways with
attractive sign-posts which lead hither and
thither that will tell the earnest toiler, "this is
the way to wealth," and "this is the sure path
to honor, but turning not aside to gather
wealth, or honor, or fame that is not honestly
earned, but by persevering in the path of duty,
and of that duty which is plainest and clearest
to the understanding, "seek first the kingdom
of God," and all other things shall be added in
due time. And while endeavoring to pursue
the way of eternal life, resolve to aid others in
their efforts to overcome weaknesses and resist
temptation, for this is true charity.
	The young are the ones who generally make
more good resolutions at the beginning of the
new year; and it is beautiful to witness how full
of fresh vigor, and earnest faith they enter up-
on the task of fulfilling the promises they make.
Are we older folks as watchful for the welfare
of the young as we should be? Do we seek to
point out the shoals and quicksands to them,
ere they have ventured too far? And when


they have formed good resolutions do we help
them to carry them out in their lives? Let us
consider these things and ponder them in our
hearts. There is a broad, a grand field open to
labor in, for all who will form the good resolu-
tion to help the young--for every effort that
can be devised seems to have been directed to-
wards leading the minds of the young people of
this generation into forbidden paths. Allure-
ments and attractions on every hand, and it be-
hooves every mother in her own home and
every woman everywhere who has courage,
capactiy and ability to labor in the interest of
the rising generation to rouse themselves, and
see what can be done to stem the tide of wicked-
ness, and if possible save many from misery
and unhappiness, which is sure to be the result
of the vices which are gaining ground so rap-
idly in the earth.
						AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACT.

From the Speech of Senator Morgan, of Alabama,
on the Question of Woman Suffrage in the
Senate of the United States, Dec. 20, 1881.

	"Let us look for a moment at the result of wo-
man suffrage in some of the Territories. I
have read to you the act of 1850, organizing
the Territory of Utah. The Territorial Legis-
lature has gone forward and conferred the right
of suffrage upon the women of Utah Territory.
The population of Utah Territory in the last
decade has reached from 64,000, I believe, to
about 150,000; I cannot state the figures ex-
actly. The Territorial Legislature of Utah
conferred upon the females of that Territory
the right of suffrage, and how have they ex-
erted that right? Sir, I am ashamed to say it,
but it is known to the world that the power of
Mormonism and polygamy in Utah Territory
is sustained by female suffrage. You cannot
get rid of those laws. Ninety per cent. of the
legislative power of Utah Territory is Mormon
and polygamous. If female suffrage is to be
incoporated into the laws of our country with a 
view to the amelioration of our morals or our po-
litcal sentiments, we stand aghast at the spectacle
of what has been wrought by its exercise in the
Territory of Utah. There stands a power sup-
porting the crime of polygamy through what
they call a divine inspiration, or teaching from
God, and all the power of the judges of the
United States and  the Congress of the
United States has been unabailing to break it
down. Who have upheld it? Those who in
the family circle represent one husband to fif-
teen women. 
	Utah Territory is increasing continually in 
its population and with great rapidity. There
is not such a missionary establishment in the
world belonging to any church whatsoever as
that connected with the Mormon church. It
is part of their creed that all those who have
united with the church of the Latter-day Saints
shall be brought personally into the Territory
of Utah, and there planted round the temples
in which they profess to worship. A continual
and rapid accumulation of the power of the
church and of polygamy is going on, and when
the Gentiles, as they are called, enter the Ter-
ritory with the view of breaking it up they are 
confronted by the women, who are allowed to 
vote, and from whom we should naturally ex-
pect a better and  higher morality in reference
to subjects of the kind. But this only shows 
the power of men over women. It only shows
how through her tender affections, her delicate
sensibilities, and her confiding spirit she can be 
made the very slave and bond-servant of man,
and can scarcely ever be made an independent
participant in the stronger exercise of the pow-
ers which God seems to have intrusted to him.
Never was there a picture more disgusting or
more condemnatory of the extension of the
franchise to women as contradistinguished from
men then is presented in the Territory of Utah
to-day."
	The paragraph quoted above should be care-
fully read by every woman in Utah who holds
dear her family relations and the right of suf-
frage. Why should "Mormon" Women not
vote conscientiously? Can any one give a good
reason for voting against what they believe to
be their highest interest? They vote for the
men whom they have known to be true and up-
right and who will maintain the best interests
of the Territory to the utmost of their ability;
and is not this the proper use of the ballot in
the hands of men or women?
	These remarks were brought out when Sen-
ator Hoar, of Mass., called up the resolution for 
appointing a special committee on Woman Suf-
frage. This resolution reads as follows:
	Resolved, That a select committee of seven 
Senators be appointed by the Chair, to which
should be referred all petitions, bills and resolves
providing for the extension of suffrage to women
or the removal of their disabilities.
	For the courtesy and presistent exertions
made by the Senator Hoar of Mass., in behalf of 
the rights of all the women of the United
States, he deserves their everlasting gratitude;
and the highest position which the votes of wo-
en could insure him when--women are per-
mitted to cast a vote for the Chief Executive
of the nation.
	Senator Hoar's request for a committee on
Woman Suffrage having been granted and a
committee appointed, Senator Morgan comes
forward again and offers a resolution, direct-
ing the special committee on woman suffrage to
inquire into the matter of suffrage in Utah and
report a bill to set aside any existing laws con-
ferring suffrage upon women of that Territory.
The resolution was laid over to be printed.
	The special committee appointed by the pre-
sident pro tem. on rights of women are Senators
Lapham, Anthony, Ferry, Blair, George,
Jackson and Fair.


WASHINGTON SUFFRAGE CON-
VENTION.
	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its Fourteenth Annual Washington
Convention at Lincoln Hall, Washington, D.
C., Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, January
18, 19 and 20, 1882, three sessions daily, at
10:30 a. m., 2:30 and 7:45 p. m.
	All members of N. W. S. A. will be admit-
ted free on presenting their membership ticket.
	An Executive meeting of officers and mem-
bers will be held at the Riggs' House Parlor,
at 2 p. m. Tuesday, 17th. An executive ses-
sion of the officers will be held at the same
place at 10 a. m. Saturday, 21st.
	The first session will open with prayer. Min-
utes of Annual Convention of May, 1881.
Plan of Work, May Wright Sewall; Opening
Address, Elizabdth Cady Stanton. Second
session-- The Moral Force of Woman Suffrage,
Matilda Joslyn Gage; Our Demand in the
Light of Education, F. R. Hinckley. Third
session--The Moral Effect of Woman Suffrage
on the Nation, Elizabeth Lilse Saxon; The
Wrongs of Disfranchisement, Lillie Devereux
Blake. Second day. Reports of Delegates;
Discussion of Resolutions by Mesdames Stan-
ton, Anthony, Blake, Gage and others; Address,
Zerelada G. Wallace; National Housekeeping,
 Clemence S. Lozier, M. D.; National Protec-
tion for Woman's Right to Vote, Susan B.
Anthony; The Golden Rule, Harriet R. Shat-
tuck; The Women of the Nation, vs. Licensed
Vices, Helen M. Gougar. Third day. Re-
ports of Delegates; A Word from Massachu-
setts, Harriet H. Robinson; Reading of Let-
ters; Discussion of Resolutions by Mesdames


Anthony, Lockwood, Clay, Sewall, Mr. Hinck-
ley and others; Woman's Function in the State,
May Wright Sewall; United States Citizen-
ship, Isabella Beecher Hooker; The Power of
Veto, Martha M’Clelan Brown; Address, Clara
Beswick Colby; Closing Remarks, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton. Adjournment.

CONSTITUTION.

	ARTICLE 1—This organization shall be
called the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	ARTICLE 2.—The object of this Association
shall be to secure National Protection for wo-
men citizens in the exercise of their right to
vote.
	ARTICLE 3.—All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution, and
contributing not less than one dollar annually,
shall be considered members of the Associa-
tion, with the right to participate in its delib-
erations.
ARTICLE 4.—The officers of this Association
shall be a President, a Vice-President from
each of the States and Teritories, Correspond-
ing and Recording Secretaries, a Treasurer and
an Executive Committee of not less than five.
	ARTICLE 5.—A quorum of the Executive
Committee shall consist of nine, and all the
officers of this Association shall be ex-officio
members of such Committee, with power to
vote.
	ARTICLE 6.—All Woman Suffrage Societies
throughout the country shall be welcomed as
auxiliaries, and their accredited officers or
duly appointed representatives shall be recog-
nized as members of the National Association


SOME FACTS.
	"Shall we continue in sin that grace may
abound? God forbid.
	The above Scripture verse was suggested to
my mind by an article in the Cincinnati Ga-
zette, in which the writer says, "The eyes of the
nation are turned in horror towards Utah."
Now, I thought, let me in imagination turn my
eyes that way and see if I experience any of
that horror. I have seen children in the twi-
light hour, play "booger men," enjoying the
"scart" feeling. So I wished to share the feel-
ing of horror just to see what the sensation is.
So turned my mental eyes towards Utah, and.
viewed in imagination the wives who receive
the sympathy or scorn of all Christendom.
Well to be honest, the feeling was more of won-
der than of horror. I wish I just knew how those
women do feel. Now I am not a Mormon;
and no doubt if some other woman was brought
into my house to share the rights; there would
be a fuss. But leaving myself entirely out of
the question, I wondered- is Mormonism such
a wicked, terrible affair? It sounds very nice
to tell about the love, the holy bond of union
between husband and wife, in the sacred institu-
tion of marriage, of two souls with but one
single thought &c. But upon looking into the
family relations of my personal friends about
me I am forced to acknowledge that "there is
something rotten in Denmark" here, for at
Mrs. V.'s there is no happiness, her husband
drinks, stays from home half the night in the
gambling room, although his home is made
cheerful and bright, and she is devoted heart
and hand to him. She depends so entirely on
him for her happiness, that his conduct is
breaking her heart. Mrs. Jones, another
neighbor, "has a notion to leave her husband
they are so unhappy together." Mrs. W., a
lady of refinement and a devoted wife and mo-
ther had to stand the shame of having a baby
laid upon her doorstep with the knowledge
that, though she was not its mother her hus-
band was its father. What has all this to do
with Mormonism? Some one asks. Well, let
us go still further and pry into the home mys-


teries of some of our newly married friends: We
find that in about the fifth year of their mar-
ried life, the wife begins to worry about
bearing children. Three out of every five,
say, "I'd be happy if I was just sure I would
not have any more children, but would rather
die than have another child." The husband in
sympathy for his wife, or in provocation denies
himself, or seeks satisfaction elsewhere, and a
change comes over the spirit of their dream of
married happiness. Now, though I consider it
injudicious to tell family secrets, yet am I for-
ced to acknowledge to the Mormon wives that
the cases cited are from real life! "Shall we
continue in sin that grace may abound? God
forbid. Happiness is to be desired, I think
God intended and wishes that his children
should be happy even here upon this earth.
How shall that happiness be secured? Will
Mormonism give it? Let some Mormon woman
be as honest as I have been, come out plainly,
deal in facts and tell the true state of affairs
there. Are you happy, Oh Women of Utah?
Some one has said: "Weak and timid minds are
content to hold an opinion, and not hold its
consequences. Strong and courageous minds
push things to their conclusions." Now, women
in Utah, I for one, am willing to push things to
conclusions. The strong arm of the law is
about to reach forth and take matters in hand,
but while it settles the case Cannon vs. Cam-
pbell we can talk over our domestic affairs
without disturbing anyone. Bring your knit-
ting and come over to spend the afternoon and
let's talk it over.
				EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PLAIN CITY.

	Primary Association of Plain City held a
Conference in the schoolhouse Dec. 24, 1881.
Sister Susannah Robinson presiding. Sing-
ing, "In the chambers of the mountains."
Prayer by Bishop Shurtliff, Singing, "Live
for something." Minutes of the previous
meeting read and accepted. Present on the
stand, Sister Josephine West, President of P.
A. Weber Stake, and her Counselors, and also
Bishop Shurtliff and Counselors, of Plain City.
Recitation by Caroline Peterson and Margaret
Geddes, "What was witnessed in the heavens."
Recitation by Patrina Folkman, "Saturday
night." Song by Annie and Eliza Green,
"Happy greeting to all." Recitation by Lewis
Jenkins, "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Reci-
tation by Annie Poulson, "Faith in God."
Recitation by Orson Raymond, "I'm not too
young." Recitation by Caroline Folkman,
"Am I a soldier of the cross?" A dialogue
was then recited by five girls and four boys,
entitled "The young missionary." Essay on
"Love," by Orson Folkman. Recitation by
Joseph Richardson, "The crucifixion of Christ."
Recitation by Margaret Folkman, "There's
millions in it." Recitation by Josephine Folk-
man. "On the raft." Recitation by Ezra
Richardson, "Celestial Marriage." Song by
Elenora Winger and Annie Lund, "I think
when I read that sweet story of old." A dia-
logue was then recited by Samuel Eames and
Joseph Folkman, "Mormonism."
	Sisters West, Stanford and Canfield gave
some very excellent instruction to the children.
They were pleased with the exercises; said we
were as far advanced as any other Association
they had visited.
	Bishop Shurtliff then addressed the children.
Said he was pleased to meet in the Conference
of our little folks; could see an improvement
in the children since their organization; con-
sidered it a stepping stone to other positions in
this Church; was pleased to see our sisters

[Column 2]
present with us, and was very pleased with the
exercises, etc.
	Sister Susannah Robinson made some appro-
priate remarks, and closed by asking God to
bless us all.
	Members enrolled, 110. Conference was
then adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Benediction by Brother Spires.
	Susannah Robinson, President, Charlotte
Swinson and Trena Folkman, Counselors; Jo-
sephine Christenson, Secretary; Annie Green,
Assistant Secretary.

WALLSBURG.

	We have been favored with a visit from Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. Howard, and our
Stake President R. S., Sister Emma Brown.
The people convened at the Wallsburg school-
house at 6 o'clock, p. m., Nov. 14, 1881. Meet-
ing was opened with singing and prayer. Our
President, Sister E. Clifton, introduced to the
congregation Sister Horne, who gave us some
excellent counsel. Said she was pleased to see
so many of the brethren present, so that they
might be able to judge of the spirit of the sis-
ters, and hear what we teach their wives and
daughters. Spoke to the Secretaries about
keeping their books properly and being punc-
tual in making correct reports. Encouraged
the sisters to be prompt in attending their
meetings and faithful in teaching their chil-
dren in the principles of truth, and governing
their families with kindness and love. Spoke
of the outside influence creeping in amongst
us, and earnestly advised the boys and girls to
keep the Word of Wisdom, read useful books
and try to cultivate their minds, instead of
striving to follow after the fashions of the
world. Gave us much good instruction which
was calculated to strengthen and elevate us.
	Sister E. Howard was pleased to see so many
at meeting this cold night, and hoped we would
always be punctual in attending our meetings.
Said the sisters worked too hard and did not
devote time enough to improving their minds.
Appealed earnestly to the young boys; advised
them to be orderly and quiet while in the
house of worship and while going to and from
parties at night. Referred to the evil resulting
from the use of whiskey and tobacco. Advised
us to provide our children with suitable books
to read, and make their homes pleasant. En-
treated mothers to teach their children in the
ways of virtue and goodness, and exhorted us
to try and elevate ourselves in all things.
	Brother F. Kerby said he had listened with
great interest to the remarks of the sisters, and
felt to endorse all they had said. Bishop Nut-
tall felt thankful to the sisters for visiting us;
thanked them for the good counsel they had
given us, and hoped we would profit by the
same.
	The following morning, at 9 o'clock, the sis-
ters held a meeting with the Young Ladies'
and Primary Associations. Spoke very en-
couragingly to the children, and gave the young
ladies some excellent advice. By request of
our Bishop the Young Ladies' Association was
reorganized; officers: Mrs. Martha E. Timothy,
President; Miss Ada Glenn and Mrs. Martha
Nuttall, Counselors; Mrs. Zorah Glenn, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Martha Parcell, Assistant Secretary;
Mrs. Martha A. Cook, Treasurer.
	The sisters of Wallsburg have built a good
substantial lumber granary, 10x12, with good
bins and double floor, cost forty-one dollars;
built by donations. We have received on dona-
tions this season twenty-four bushels of wheat,
making in all 168. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel of truth,
			ELIZABETH CLIFTON, Pres't.
			SARAH GLENN, Sec'y.

	DEAR EDITORS—The first Annual Meeting of
the Glasgow and Parkhead R. S., was held at 15

[Column 3]
Moir Street Glasgow, Scotland on the 19th,
Dec. 1881, of which we submit a report for
your inspection, hoping that you may favor us
with a few words of counsel towards the ar-
rangement of the Society, as it is the first that
has been successful in Glasgow. And we ten-
der our sincere thanks to Elder David C. Dun-
bar for his energy, patience, and wise counsel
given during the commencement of our organ-
ization.
	The following is a statistical and financial
report.
	Organized by Elder David C. Dunbar, with
Sister Flora Crawford President: Sisters Jane
Wilson and Flora Picken 1st and 2d Coun-
selors; Sister Francilda Burnside Secretary,
Sister Jane Wilson Treasurer; and eight mem-
bers enrolled; since then six members have been
added: five have emigranted to Utah leaving a
total of thirteen members and officers. The
money collected during the year amounted to
[-]6-8-9-1. The amount distributed to the poor,
[-]5-3-9; leaving a balance on hand of [-]1-5-01.
			FRANCILDA BURNSIDE Sec'y.


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	Thursday Jan. 5th, a number of the ladies of
the Relief Society with the Bishop and his
Counselors, met at the residence of our re-
spected President Elizabeth Fox, on the oc-
casion of her 57th birthday. By a previous
arrangement she had been called out to a
neighbor's and on her return home found the
house filled with guests. After some music
and singing she was ushered into the dining
room where a sumptous repast prepared by the
willing hands of the sisters was partaken of by
all.
	After supper Counselor Mary Hawks, in be-
half of the sisters, in an appropriate speech
presented our President with a handsomely
framed picture of the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles of the Church. Sister Fox
made a short but feeling response.
	A Poem composed for the occasion by Sister
Claria Nash was then read.
	Speeches, singing, music and recitations
were indulged in, until a late hour when the
company dispersed feeling they had enjoyed a
very agreeable time.
	Ever wishing success to the EXPONENT.
			MINNIE HATCH, Sec'y.
			NELLIE PARKINSON Assit. Sec'y.
	Franklin, Idaho, Jan. 9th, 1882.


OUR GUARDIAN ANGELS.

Angels ever hover round you,
	Guarding every step of life;
They who've lived on earth before you,
	Fought life's battle, conquered strife.

They whose thoughts are pure and holy
	Strive to fill your minds with light,
Knowing naught but good can follow
	Those who live a righteous life.

Angel forms unseen surround you,
	Guard your steps where'er you stray;
They will watch, protect and guide you,
	Till from earth you pass away.

When your mortal life is ended,
	And your spirit takes its flight,
They will lead you up and onward
	To a purer, higher life."

	"Are they not all ministering spirits, sent
forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of
salvation?" Heb., 1st chap., 14th verse.
	"Oh, what an unspeakable blessing is the
ministry of angels to mortal man! What a
pleasing thought, that many who minister to
us, and watch over us, are our near kindred—
our fathers who have died and risen again in
former ages, and who watch over their descend-
ants with all the parental care and solicitude
which characterize affectionate fathers and
mothers on the earth." Key to Theology.
						ANN FELLOWS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
			CONCORD, MIDDLESEX Co., Mass.,
										July 20, 1881.
Mrs. H.T.King:
	My Dear Friend--How I wish you were
here! for certainly you would thoroughly en-
joy this atmosphere of intellectual refinement.
You know Boston is the Athens of America,
and in Concord are the classic groves of the
modern Athens; for Boston approaches nearer
to the Athens of Socrates and Plato than any
other city in the world, and it would be diffi-
cult to find grander historic associations, or a
richer galaxy of great minds, that make Con-
cord one of the world's hallowed places. Here
was fired the shot that awakened the world to
a sense of their own individual rights; here
began that glorious struggle that gave liberty
to half the world, and revealed the goddess in
her true beauty to the other half.
	"Here, too, lived Hawthorne, our greatest
writer of romance, author of "The Scarlet
Letter," Marble Fawn," "House of Seven 
Gables," and a host of other works of marvel-
ous beauty. Yesterday I visited his grave, a
spot secluded on a hilltop, a beautiful valley
rolling away from its base, and over and around
it lofty pines bend  and sigh and sob, as if the
burdens of humanity had passed into them.
	Here too lived Thoreau, the American
Jean Jacques Rousseau; here, in lonely woods
on the shore of a fairy-like pond, he endeav-
ored to show us that man can be sufficient unto
himself without society.
	Here the Transcendental School met and
taught a new gospel	  *	     *	 	and
Margaret Fuller roused woman from her ob-
scure depths. Here lives our glorious, saintly
minstrel-seer, Emerson, ready now alas! to
sink into the grave. Still he comes sometimes
to our lectures, bringing with him an atmos-
phere of heaven. The bright, practical face of "Aunt Jo" is
seen also at our meetings. Of course you
know Louisa Alcott, authoress of "Little Wo-
men," "Old-fashioned Girl," &c Dear Aunt
Jo! beloved of every heart whether young or
old! We walked home with her one evening,
and she talks just as she writes. Her father,
A. Bronson Alcott, the patriarch of philoso-
phers, a grand old man of eighty years, as
fresh, as spiritual, as quaint as ever.
	Concord has always been a favorite resort of
literary people, of thinkers, and well it might;
its walks, shaded with elms, some of them two
hundred years old, its woods and fairy-like
lakes (they call them ponds here), its hills and
undulating fields, its beautiful homes and its
quiet and repose, although only twenty miles
from Boston, a dozen or so of trains passing
every day, yet it is as calm and peaceful as a
country village.
	I have kept the great thing for the last. In
this quiet rural nook, possessing at most 2500
souls, is a free public library of 1600 volumes.
	I know I shall feel homesick when the mo-
ment of departure comes, as it will in a few weeks.
	And now, I suppose you are aweary of Con-
cord. As to the School of Philosophy, I send
you a list of the subjects discussed. If you
would like to read the newspaper reports of
any of them I can send them to you; I am
keeping them all, one or two excepted, and
those I shall try to get.
	And now, my dear friend, how are you?
physically, I mean, for your mental condition
is ever fresh and active--witness those articles
on Disaraeli. Was the poem, "Reminiscences,"
a late work , or is it of an earlier date? It
touched me very much.
	As far as regards Disraeli, I am not really
an enthusiast; certainly I admire him as a man
of strange destinies, an historical phenomenon,
so to speak, but being a liberal heart and soul.

[Column 2]
I was rather glad to see the helm of state pass
to the conservatives. Are you at all interested
in the great movements that are now agitating
the Northern States of Europe? It seems to
me that a great struggle is preparing; what its
issue will be we cannot well say but one thing
is certain, the birth of liberty for all the world
is at hand.
	The next great question after Nihilism, is
the revision of the New Testament. For some
weeks before my departure from Romeo, the
revision was the one absorbing theme. Will
you give me your ideas upon it? I will write
mine and send them to you at my first leisure.
Some of them seem to me quite radical.
				Yours affectionately,
						MARIE AGNES WALCH


LITTLE LETTER.

MORGAN CITY, Dec, 4, 1881.

DEAR SISTER SNOW:

	I promised to write to you, and now I do so.
We are getting along splendidly with our Pri-
mary and now we have a good attendance, be-
cause there is not much work to do.   Last
Saturday we went up to East Porterville to the
Fair, and it was splendid.   The boys made
rakes, knives, forks, lounges, whips, rolling-
pins, ox-yokes, &c.   The girls made pies and 
cakes, worked tidies, and one of the girls, about
twelve years old took a piece of every one of
the Primary children's hair, and the Presi-
dent's and her two Counselors'.   Then she
put the boys' on one side of the hair work and 
the girls' on the other side, and the President's
and Counselor's above worked in hearts.
   Sister Porter, the President, takes great 
pains with the children.   She teacher them to
sing, and at the Fair they sang very sweetly.
I hope you will be permitted to come and visit
us again next summer, for the Primary chil-
dren would like to see you now.   My mother
sends her very kind love to you, and hopes
you are well.   Accept the same from myself.
		Yours affectionately, 
						JOSEPH WELCH.


DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set. in the
most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Sull the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE.-MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541.
JUST ISSUED
By J.H. HEMAN,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
BIBLE ALMANAC
FOR
1882.
(Second Year.)
15 cts. per copy.
	A liberal discount will be allowed to Canvas-
sers.
	A few copies of last year's Almanas for sale
at the same price.
	NOTICE.
HAVING PRODURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE
cimens, etc. I am now prepared to give instructions
in the art of Obstetrics and other branches [--]fected there-
with. My  class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
				E.R. SHIPP, M.D., Salt Lake City.
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z.C.M.I.
			Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
	THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands.
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe [--]n the West. 		Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.
		FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
		AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
			AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Lenseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
	--HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOs. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
--

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Adress, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
	SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUIT OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
			S.P. TREASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

