
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1881.	No. 1.


THE YOUNG MAY MOON.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The young May Moon! Ah! well might Moore
	And such as he, thine advent sing,
How many human eyes—before
	Whose vision tho[-] dost Heaven bring!

How many hearts have bowed beneath
	Thy mystic charm of crescent beam,
Surrounding us as with a wreath
	Of glory from its wondrous sheen!

How many hearts are raised from earth
	While gazing on thy placid face,
Yes thou hast oft dispell'd the dearth
	That hung o'er our abiding place;

We may not kiss our hand to thee
	Nor yet the knee in worship bend,—
But thou shalt be a voice to me,
	And I thro' thee will whisperings send

To Him, who hung thee up above,
	As One of His Omniscient Eyes!
As on the Altar of my love
	I lay my votive sacrifice!

Oh! glorious concave! as I stand
	And thro' thy golden vistas gaze,
My spirit eye beholds the Hand
	Of God—silent, fond amaze.
The starry vault, a whispering tongue
	By every listening ear is heard,
That tells of Heaven on Earth begun,
	A lamp by which to read His word.—
The young May Moon, again I turn
	To gaze upon its silent beam,
And thoughts within my bosom burn
	But language fails to paint the theme.

The young May Moon has come and waned—
	Spring flowers come forth, then fade and die
And knowledge thus is daily gained
	That life and death around us lie!

Types of the resurrection—these—
	Mankind start forth with beauty ripe
Then pass away by fell desease
	By life and death in mortal strife!

Father! withdraw the awful veil,
	The grand Beyond that we may see—
Let dream or vision tell the tale
	When we shall dwell indeed with Thee!
Salt Lake City, May 1881.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALT.

				[CONCLUDED.]
	One of the tenets of the Gospel received by
the Latter-day Saints in common with all other
principles of truth, is that of baptism for the
dead; this was regarded by the Missionary
Unipod as being wickedly absurd if not un-
scriptural, and as to plural marriage, although
the ancient patriarchs practised it, the entire
institution was the device of the devil to lead
men into licentionsness; according to that gen-
tleman's opinion. And he felt justified iu op-
posing the Latter-day Saints on account of
these doctrines, as did the London City mis-
sionaries generally. If this opposition had
been conducted upon Christian principles, that
is in the Spirit of love,it might have been justifi-
able, but the most rancorous hate was man-
ifested. It did not seem to enter into the mind
of the Missionary that the Gospel Jesus taught
was that of love, and that the fruits of the Spirit,
conferred upon his disciples, were love, joy,
peace, long-suffering, gentleness, and all the

[Column 2]
virtues. So thoroughly imbued was Mr.
Unipod with enmity to "Mormonism" that even
his "Mormon" son was hated. Now if Christian
people would reflect they would find no just-
ification in hating any one, on account of dif-
ference of religious opinion. So sensible of
this were the founders of the London City Mis-
sion itself, that one of its laws prohibited doc-
trinal discussions, lest they should lead to
division.
	So long as the missionaries were guided by
this wholesome rule, the affairs of the entire
mission prospered, and when active hostility
commenced against the missionary Elders of
the Latter-day Saints, internal discord began
and brotherly love ceased to characterize them
as brethren.
	That Missionary Unipod was honest in his
antagonism to his son, and to those associated
with him in religious faith there can be no
question. Even on his death-bed he called his
"Mormon" son close to him, and whispered:
"Joseph, I am going to leave you, and we shall
never meet again." But that "Mormon" son
knew more than his dying father did of the
nature of the Gospel of Christ. He knew the
meaning of the comprehensive words of Jesus.
"He that believeth in me, though he were dead
yet shall he live." He knew that the glorious
Gospel is not narrowed down to paltry sectarian
dimensions. He had received of the Spirit of
the Gospel, that Spirit which takes of the
things of the Father and the Son, and reveals
them to every true believer. Yes! and that Spirit
was there, by the side of the dying bed of the
devoted Missionary, to bless and cheer his
father. The "Mormon" son who himself was a
missionary at that time took the right hand of
his beloved father and whispered to him in
turn, with words of hope: "Father I know
where you are going to and I will come and
visit you." Yes! and the father believed these
words, carried home to the heart as they were
by the Spirit of Truth. It takes but a short
time to open the visions of the mind to the
spiritual things of this creation when God
quickens the understanding. In the twinkling
of an eye the dying father saw his son in his
true colors, he loved him then! Trying to ap-
ologize for harshness towards him, a thing that
was quite unnecessary, he asked forgiveness,
but everything had long since been forgiven!
It is not surprisitg then that the "Mormon" son
has been baptized in Zion for his beloved
father; gone into the water for him; that al-
though he had died without having honored
the law, it should be honored for him: Ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the Spirit
he cannot enter the kingdom of God." That
the son had a clear right to minister on earth
for the deceased father, the ordinances of the
Gospel have made provision for; and in the
human family there will always be a living
link somewhere by which the temporal and
spiritual can be united. The time may be long
in accomplishing all the redemptions that are
possible, but the eternities are long. Thus all
may have an opportunity of receiving the
Gospel, and the time shall come that "Every
knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess
that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the
Father."
	The London City Missionary was followed to
the grave by scores of his fellow missionaries.
Thirty-five years he had been doing the work
of the Master in the best manner he knew how
to do,and his works follow him. Many were the

[Column 3]
eulogies spoken and written about this good
man.
	The "Mormon" son followed the remains of
his father to their last resting place, conscious
that had the father lived he would no longer
have opposed the Gospel. And there were as-
surances that all would be well with the de-
parted missionary, given by the lips of the
priesthood. "Your father was a good man,
honestly opposed to the work of the Lord by
reason of his own traditions, he will inherit a
great Terrestrial glory!" The name of the be-
loved father is now recorded among the names
of those who have honored the law of Baptism;
and the "Mormon" son still lives to see Temples
built in honor of the Most High, in which
the glorious work of salvation for the living and
the dead shall be finally consummated.


WORD OF WISDOM.

READ AT THE ASSOCIATION IN THE ELEVENTH
WARD.

	I have been appointed to write an essay on
this most-talked-of subject, and I have tried to
express a few of my ideas upon it. I do not
think it consists altogether in not taking tea,
coffee and strong drinks, but we should use
wisdom in every act of our lives. For instance,
it is not wisdom for us young people to keep
late hours, as there are so many temptations to
lead astray the unsuspecting, nor is it wisdom
for us to dress our bodies in that way and man-
ner that is both unbecoming and unhealthy and
sinful in the sight of the Lord. It is not wis-
dom for us to associate with those that are not
of us, for many are wicked and designing, and
would lead us from the paths of virtue and
truth. Neither is it wisdom for us to make
gluttons of ourselves in taking everything that
our appetites crave and that will injure us both
bodily and spiritually. We all will admit that
tea, coffee, tobacco, strong drinks and meats
are good in their place, and if we should learn
to use them for the purpose Nature intended
and that they were created for. There are a
great many other things that could be said on
this subject, but which I will leave till some fu-
ture day; and in the meantime, let us try to
practice the "Word of Wisdom" in the few
matters that I have written upon, and that we
may all have strength to do so is my earnest
desire.				FLORENCE RIDGES.


Mr. Mason secured Friday, May 27th, for
the discussion of his Resolution, in the House
of Commons, England: "That in the opinion
of this House the parliamentary franchise
should be extended to women who possess the
qualifications which entitle men to vote, and
who, in all matters of local government, have
the right of voting."
	The "History of Woman Suffrage," edited
by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Matilda Joslyn Gage, is to be issued in two
royal octavo volumes, nearly one thousand
pages each, illustrated with many fine steel
portraits of eminent women. Volume 1 is now
ready, contains 878 pages and 12 steel en-
gravings. Sold only by subscription. Price,
bound in heavy cloth, imitation morocco, per
volume, $5.00 in full calf; marble edges, per
volume, $6.50. Agents wanted, to whom spe-
cial terms and territory will be given. Ad-
dress—Fowler, & Wells, Publishers, 753 Broad-
way, New York.


2	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BENJAMIN DISRAELI.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
	When names are rendered mighty by good deeds
	Titles are dropt as husks that bore the seeds;
	The name alone is all that need be traced,
	By that the marble is in beauty graced—
	And that alone an Epitaph will form,
	For him, not one, but many nations mourn.

	On the entrance of Disraeli into Parliatment,
Mr. Wyndham Lewes was his colleague, both
being Commoners; from that time a close friend-
ship sprang up between them, and continued
till the death of Mr. Lewes;—I think I am
right in saying that Disraeli was one of the
executors of his will. He had been an efficient
servant of the State, and through the sugges-
tions and influence of Disraeli, the title of
Viscountess Beaconsfield, in her own right,
was conferred on his widow; years after, she
became the wife of Disraeli. The Queen had
desired for some time to raise him to the peer-
age, but he had always firmly but respectfully
declined the honor; but on his marriage her
wishes became commands, and he then was in-
vested with the title of Earl of Beaconsfield,
and after his return from signing the treaty
of Berlin, Her Majesty conferred on him the
Order of the Garter, which is the highest honor
of the English crown. "Honor to whom honor
is due" is the Scriptural injunction, and we
feel gratified that it was largely bestowed on
one who, step by step, and by an indomitable
will and a far-seeing judgment, had nobly
earned it all. He is pronounced by friend and
foe to have been the greatest statesman Eng-
land has possessed since William Pitt; he has
left a position none can at present take up.
His loss can only be estimated by time, and
the experiences it will unavoidably bring. At
the present time England could ill spare her
noble pilot from the helm of the Ship of State,
with his calm, clear brain, his strong hand and
unflinching will. "Although the leading spirit
has departed, those remain who, by long asso-
ciation, have drunk deep at the fountain head,
and can still diffuse its essence. He it
was who rescued England from her
degraded position, and placed her high in the
councils of the world. He taught nations to
respect her name and honor her traditions. His
manly courage and firmness enforced respect
and confidence. The high position then at-
tained remained with the great Tory chief un-
til his death, and all the world is ready to do
homage to his loyalty to his sovereign, and to
his patriotism to the country of his birth and
fame!" It is a remarkable result in the case
of one who had nothing but his genius to aid
him. He had no patron in high life, no college
connection, no friendship in high places to help
him; indeed, he had the prejudice of poverty
and race against him. Nothing but the high-
est courage sustained him, and the Christian-
Jew became the embodiment of nearly all that
is noble and great in the English character.
Mr. Disraeli became a Christian in faith at a
very early age—it is said at twelve years—and
maintained it to the end of his mortal career.
As a young man he showed no particular apti-
tude for anything except literature; he disliked
business, but cultivated his mind by travel,
which the comparatively slender means of his
father enabled him to enjoy. He began life as
a politician, determined to win his way to fame
and greatness. He was most emphatically a
self-made man. By his perseverance and in-
domitable will he succeeded, step by step, in
winning the high positions he for years has
filled, and was twice Premier of England, the
one position nearest to the throne. His per-
sonal qualities had also a great deal to do with
his success. "Little children loved him, wo-
manly hearts worshipped him, and strong men
held his right hand lovingly and loyally when
he died."

[Column 2]
	During his illness several letters were writ-
ten to him by children, hoping "his Lordship
would soon be better." Such were the best
tributes that could be paid to any one. It is
not by what strangers say, or what they think,
that character can be tested, it is the home cir-
cle; and there this most remarkable man was
beloved in a most remarkable manner. Some
years ago a lady friend of both himself and
his Viscountess died and left him a handsome
estate on condition of her remains being laid
side by side with her beloved friends in their
family vault at Hughenden!!—this wash was
complied with—the name of this Lady was
Mrs. Brydges Willyams; here is a speciman of
the tenacity, and appreciation of friendship,
that is most expressive and unique! it is said
that he never made a personal enemy—party
ones he had bitter ones—but at his death it is
remarkable every opposing feeling seemed laid
aside, and the daily callers in Curzon Street were
all that had ever known him, and admired his
wondrous abilities; the most delicate atten-
tion was shewn him, even to leaving their car-
riages at the top of the street, and walking to
the house that no noise might desturb him.
Ladies, Marchionesses and Duchesses observed
this attention. At his own Manor of Hugh-
enden, the Vicar of which the Rev. Henry
Blagden M. A. spoke of him in high terms at
the Vestry meeting saying, "I rise to give ex-
pression to our regret at the great loss our parish
has sustained by the lamented death of the Earl
of Beaconsfield; during the twelve years that I
have been Vicar, no one could be more kindly
or liberally disposed toward the parish than he
was. I never applied to him for help without
his meeting me in the kindest, and most gener-
ous way; and I know how dearly he loved this
place and always had the well-being of Hugh-
enden at heart. In his last illness he pined for
his beloved Home, and although he knew that
the honor of a public funeral in Westminister
Abbey might be his, he always set his face
against it, because he desired that his body
should lie here in the place he loved so much.
I can safely say that those who knew him best,
loved him best; and I never heard one of his
Tenants, or one of those who served him, say
an unkind or bitter word against him. No
public man was ever able to call forth such an
amount of devotion as he did, not only among
his political supporters, but still more when we
come to the narrower circle of his own place;"
the Vicar then proposed resolutions to record
the irreparable loss the nation, and especially
the Manor of Haghenden had sustained by the
death of the Earl of Beaconsfield etcetera; in
speaking to the resolution Mr Thomas Coates
said, "as a Tenant of the late Earl for a quart-
er of a century he endorsed all the Vicar had
said"—of course I have merely given a synopsis
of what aught every word to have been quoted,
as coming from one who as the Clergyman of
the parish had been brought into much of the
inner life of the Disraeli family. Demonstra-
tions of respect were held throughout the
country the day of the funeral and services held
at most of the Churches and the most eulogistie
remarks made,the burden and refrain being that
"the country had lost a very great man and
the Queen one she regarded as her friend, and
counselor."
	I now give clippings from London, papers
which speak for themselves—

	"A well-known diplomatist was not long ago
conferring with Prince Bismarck in the latter's
private cabinet, when the conversation chanced
to turn on the Berlin Congress and the conspicu-
ous part which the chief Plenipotentiary of
Great Britain had taken at it. 'There' said
the Chancellor, pointing to the wall, there hangs
the portrait of my Sovereign, there on the right
that of my wife, and on the left that of Lord
Beaconsfield."
	"Everywhere there are signs of true sorrow

[Column 3]
and respect; friend and foe alike have striven
to emulate each other in mourning a national
loss, while the foreign Press teems with eulogy
on the great man just passed away. To merely
quote what has already appeared would require
more than one edition of this paper. It is re-
markable, however, that among so many autho-
rities there should be so little that is censorious.
If we acept a few ill-conditioned Radical papers,
there has been nothing but universal praise.
It would be foolish to suppose that the late
Earl had not many and bitter political oppo-
nents, but under the shadow of sorrow so recent,
nearly all unite in setting forth the better side
of the great man's career. Of the many flatter-
ing notices that have appeared in the foreign
newspapers, that in the Bersaglieri of Rome is
the most picturesque. The writer says—
	"The man whom Mr. Gladstone had re-
proached as not having a drop of English blood
in his veins has given to the English Gladstone
a terrible lesson in patriotism: he found Eng-
land reduced, as Lord Russell said, to a Power
of the third order, and he replaced her in her
ancient position.	-	-	-	-	His end
was ever the greatness and prosperity of Eng-
land. To the domesticity loving Queen this
ambitious man, this remoulder of Empires, was
extremely dear. The daughter of the Bruns-
wicks and Tudors leaned in glad security on
the arm of the Hebrew's son."

	"A man who did not know how to hestitate or
vacillate when he saw what he believed to be
duty; who did not undo to-day what he had
done yesterday; fearless and independent, true
to conviction and bold in action; one who
would rather look defeat in the face than be
false to his principles."

	The following is a clause in his will and he
desires that the words "in her own right," shall
be inscribed even on her Tomb—trifles truly
speak character!

	"I desire and direct that I may be buried in
the same vault in the churchyard of Hughen-
den in which the remains of my late dear wife,
Mary Anne Disraeli, created in her own right
Viscountess Beaconsfield, were placed, and
that my funeral may be conducted with the
same simplicity as hers was".

	The last extract has a ring in it that causes
my whole soul to vibrate and respond to the
chords it strikes! why is this? "There are more
things in Heaven and Earth, than are dreampt
of in our philosophy or if some whisperings of the
Spirit of truth, give us glimpses of light, and
understanding through the crannies of the Soul,
they are given alone for our edification and
generally we find the language we now possess
even with all its wondrous power of communi-
cation is still inadequate to express that, which
by some invisible power is conveyed to us, and
with it a Lexicon of the same mysterious con-
struction by which we can comprehend and
define its meaning; and we are fed and en-
lightened, and edified and we go on our way re-
joicing, we acknowledge it the voice of God, and
we heard it without fear, but with joy and glad-
ness! well may our minds go out into the Elysian
fields, leaving the things of "the earth earthy"
and in the vision of those minds we see the
hand of God, almost as did "the brother of
Jared"—"God moves in a mysterious way"
"He raises up instruments, He fills them with
intelligence that is of no earthly school; the
portion of His Spirit that he has conferred up-
on them, draws all men unto them," and wo-
men too, and even children," pluck their robe
to gain their smile; and so they pass thro' life,
with all eyes fixed upon them, all minds trying
to read them, all imaginations engrossed by
them, living meteors that cross our path in
their glory and their brightness, they rush on—
till like the masse of humanity they are swal-
lowed up in the Maelstrom of Death!—and there
the door is shut,and we are left dazzled by their


glorious transit, recalling the days of their life,
and the glory of them, recalling their words,
their looks,their power of attraction their power
to benefit, and elevate mankind, to benefit and
elevate nations, recalling that last speech those
last words that last look,that last pressure of the
hand.—Leave me alone for I will weep yet
longer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 3


THERE'S A STRANGE WILD GLEAM.

[-]Y M. J. TANNER.

There's a strange wild gleam in the moonlight's glow,
	And a soft low voice in the air to-night;
As it glimmers across the drifted snow,
	That carries me back to the old starlight.
When the moon shone down so cold and clear,
	And the hoar-frost glistened on tree and bough;
And memory pauses to drop a tear
	O'er the buried hopes of the long ago.

There's a strange glow comes to my heart to-night,
	And wild and sharp its depths are stirred
And my pulses thrill with a strange delight,
	Awaked by the sound of a little word.
For Oh! in the past, there are graves so deep,
	Where skeleton forms are hidden from view
And sadly we've paused o'er the sods to weep
	As the long swift years have carried us through.

The spirits that glide o'er the waters may weep,
	And the cold dark waves a requiem swell:
But the low wild wail,of the waters keep,
	The secret their voices may never tell,
Though the sounding surge of the watery main,
	Will awaken thoughts that had gone to rest,
And the sighing wind o'er the sandy plain
	Will sob like a child on its mother's breast.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

				CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land
to the places of note are all thrillingly set forth
in the Book of Letters published some time
after the return of the Palestine party, and
would be instructive to our young people. On
Sunday March the 2nd. 1873, President George
A. Smith and party, Sister Eliza included,
went on horseback to the Mount of Olives, and
ascended the summit. They sent before them
tent, table, seats and carpet. On this Mount is
the "Church of Ascension" which they visited;
it is said to stand on the very spot where Jesus
ascended. The tent was pitched and service
was conducted there after the manner of the
Holy priesthood as revealed in this dispensa-
tion; strange must it have seemed to those
Pilgrims,so to speak,to gather upon this sacred
Mount, so famed in Scripture, and renowned
throughout all civilized lands, and where Jesus
spoke to the people, hundreds of years before,
dedicate and consecreate that land anew, to the
gathering of the Jews and the rebuilding of
Jerusalem. Strange too that a woman should
take part in this peculiar work as did Eliza at
that time in worshiping in that holy place, per-
mitted to wander where in that remarkable era
wandered Mary the mother of Jesus and
Elizabeth. A sort of link to bind the women
of that wonderful age to the women of this
latter dispensation.
	The day following the Sabbath spent upon
the Mount of Olives, Sister Eliza visited the
"Mosque of Omar" famous among Moham-
medans. She says "it is the best Edifice in Jer-
usalem." There were many interesting places
and things to attract one like her in traveling
up and down this land of the past. On the
evening of the 4th, the Jewish Rabbi Abraham
Askenasi and three others called upon President
Smith's party at their tent, and the "Mormons'
and Jews had a most interesting interview

[Column 2]
Sister Eliza was charmed "with the scenic view
of the surroundings of this ancient site of time-
honored memories," and a "feeling of reluctance"
that she bade Jerusalem farewell.
	On the 5th, the party resumed their journey,
passed the "Gibbeah of Saul," and rode on to
Bethel, the place of Jacob's vision, and en-
camped in a mountainous romantic spot where
clear, pure water flowed from the almost per-
pendicular rocks. The next day they passed
the Mosque of Shiloh; the country was exced-
ingly picturesque: they stopped at Jacob's
Well near the entrance to the valley, between
Mt. Ebal and Mt. Gerizim. Here the party
took every bit of cord and rope attainable and
drew water from this celebrated well, Near
this well is the place where it is supposed Jesus
asked the Samaritan woman for water.
Traveling on and passing Scriptural places al-
most continuously, they reached at length "the
memorable city of Nazareth. Sister Eliza says
Nazareth is a dirty town almost filthy and con-
tains a large number of beggars; and that she
was forcibly reminded of the question of Nath-
aniel "Can any good come out of Nazareth?"
Notwithstanding the poverty of the place the
people in personal attire are cleanly, many of
them dressing in pure white from top to toe,
and in this respect do not at all correspond
with the views of their dwellings from the out-
side, which are neglected and untidy in appear-
ance- But the city (Nazareth) is immortalized
as being the home of our blessed Savior here
upon the earth. While there Sister Eliza tells
us of a large company of Armenians on a pil-
grimage to Jerusalem. She says, "I walked
into their midst and the closer view increased
my heart-ache for poor, degraded hummanity."
Leaving Nazareth the Palestine tourists passed
over the plains of Galilee; and from time to
time saw many wandering Arabs, or Bedouins,
traveling from place to place,with their fam-
ilies, flocks and herds, and camping as con-
venient for agriculture,pasturage and such like
purposes.
	Possibly Sister Eliza herself, scarcely con-
ceived all the peculiar grandeur of this journey,
or realized its bearing in full force while travel-
ing over these once consecrated, but now some-
what desolated plains and places of renown;
but we will venture to assert that no woman
holding the same rank and prestige, be she
queen or princess, has ever trod those immor-
talized plains since the days of Mary and Eliza-
beth. Eliza has been permitted "by the grace
of God," to stand in holy places, and pause by
the surging waters, memorable forever from
historical association with Jesus, Mary and
their co-laborers in that dispensation. To even
mention all these points of interest would
scarcely be consistent with our space, but we
must pause at the beautiful Sea of Galilee, so
famed in the history of our Savior. Here as at
almost all the eminently, remarkable points in
the journey, the inspiration of the Muse drew
forth from this "Mormon" poetess, sojourning
in the Hebrew land what we designate a song
of the sea. It is however entitled, "At the Sea
of Galilce." No doubt the most sublime and
holy emotions filled the soul of this gifted wo-
man, as she stood as it were entranced in the
visions of the marvelous past, the fruitful
present and the glorious future. Endowed with
blessings and powers from under the hands of
the prophet of the last dispensation she pos-
sessed a talisman to unravel much that would be
closed to others, and like a daughter of the
Psalmist she poured forth in musical rhythm a
few of her thoughts by this Scriptural Sea, of
which we give a verse or two.

"I have stood on the shore of the beautiful sea,
The renown'd aud immortalized Galilee,
When 'twas wrapp'd in repose at eventide,
Like a royal queen in her regal pride.

[Column 3]"I thought of the present—the past; it seem'd
That the silent sea with instruction teem'd;
For often, indeed, the heart can hear
What never, in sound, has approached the ear.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"There's a depth in the soul, that's beyond the reach
Of all earthly sound—of all human speech,
A fiber too sacred and pure to chime
With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Again when the shades of night, were gone,
In the clear bright rays of the morning dawn,
I walked on the bank of this self-same Sea,
Where once our Redeemer was wont to be."

	While Sister Eliza walked by the Sea of
Galilee, there came a young daughter of Juda,
who after the oriental custom filled an earthen
jar with sea-water, placed it on her head and
walked away; she followed her and by signs
gave her to understand she wished to accompany
her home. The girl was pleased and on enter-
ing her home the young Jewess introduced her
to her mother, they showed her their garden,
and the young lady taking from her the pretty
wild-flowers she had in her hand gave her some
green branches of hyssop to which shrub she
says, they seem to attach a great deal of con-
sequence.
			To be continued.


THE WILL OF "GEORGE ELIOT."

	The will (dated May 6th, 1880) of Mrs. Mary
Ann Cross (George Eliot),the wife of Mr. John
Walter Cross, late of No. 4, Cheyne-walk, Chel-
sea, who died on December 22nd last, was
proved on the 9th inst., by Charles Lee Lewes,
the sole executor, the personal estate, limited to
the property she had power of appointment
over by virtue of a settlement (dated May 4th,
1880) and under the will of Mrs. Mary Evar-
ard, being sworn under £40,000. By the set-
tlement referred to not only was the property
she then possessed settled, but also any she
might hereafter acquire by exercise of her lite-
rary skill. The testatrix bequeaths £5,000 to
Miss Emily Clarke, £1,000 to Vivian Byam
Lewes, an annuity of £100 for her life to Mrs.
Caroline Bray, and an annuity of £40 for her
life to her housekeeper, Mrs. Mary Dowling.
The sum of £12,500 is to be set aside, in the
names of her executor and her husband as
trustees and the income paid to Mrs. Eliza
Lewes, the widow of Herbert Arthur Lewes,
for life or during widowhood, and on her death
or second marriage, as to one moiety of the cap-
ital fund for her son, George Henry Lewes,and
as to the other moiety for her daughter, Marian
Lewes. As to the residue of her property, the
testatrix gives the same to the said Charles Lee
Lewes, his heirs, executors, administrators, and
assigns absoluely.—Itlustraled London News.


BIRTHDAY.

	April 26th, 1881 being the 76 anniversary of
Sister Ann Gardner. a teacher in our Relief So-
ciety; the officers and a number of members
met at her house to give her a surprise each ex-
pressed her love and good wishes in a short
speech. A poem written for the occasion was
composed and read by Mrs. Christina Higgins.
several of the sisters gave Sister Gardner a
useful present as a token of their respect. All
partook of a nice supper, social chat intermixed
with singing during the evening, all felt well
and enjoyed a goodly portion of the Spirit of
the Lord. Sister Gardner is a Widow and
emigrated to Utah with her family from Scot-
land, with the hand cart company in 1856.
She has always been a good and faithful mem-
ber of the Church and is respected by all who
know her.
					LOUISA TAYLOR, Sec'y.


4	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,	—	JUNE 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	This people doubtless remember that to-day,
June 1st, is the birthday of Brigham Young, one
of the most distinguished men of the nineteenth
century, and for more than thirty years Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints. His remarkable works are living
monuments to the memory of the illustrious
man who led the hosts of Israel through the
wilderness, and sought out a safe abiding place,
where towns and cities have been built, peace
and plenty multiplied and temples reared to the
Most High, and the standard of Zion unfurled
to all nations. Honor to the name of Brigham
Young. The children of the Saints should be
taught to revere his memory. It seems only a
slight tribute to the memory of such a man,that
the day of his birth should be remembered
by the people for whom he labored. The suc-
cessor of Joseph Smith, the great Prophet of the
last dispensation, and himself Prophet, Seer and
Revelator of the Church for so long a period. In
the journeyings of the Saints from Nauvoo, he
displayed the greatest ability as a leader, endur-
ing in common with the masses of the people
the toils and hardships incident to pioneer life,
ever encouraging and cheering them under all
trials and difficulties.
	To Brigham Young also belongs the credit of
practically establishing the institution of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the Prophet Jo-
seph and taught during his lifetime, yet never
proclaimed publicly or the revelation published
to the world, until after the people had perma-
nently settled themselves in this Territory. It
took almost superhuman courage to face the op-
position which such an innovation upon tra-
dition and custom aroused. But Brigham Young
proved himself equal to the emergency, and
maintained the dignity of a man called of God
to bring about His divine purposes, through ev-
ery struggle brought to overthrow the practice
of this patriarchal law designed to benefit and
bless the human race.
	At an advanced age in life, he traveled exten-
sively, north, south, east and west, to organize
and strengthen the Stakes of Zion, and perfect
the order of the quorums of the Holy Priest-
hood. He was a true friend to the Indians, and
his policy was ever to preserve peace with them
and aid them in the path to civilization. Feed
them and clothe them, instead of fighting them,
was his manner of treatment. But for the wis-
dom and prudence he manifested towards these
savages at an early period in the settlement of
the country, there can be no doubt the lives and
property of the people would have been jeopar-
dized.
	Brigham Young re organized the Relief Soci-
ety, which placed woman upon a higher platform
than she had been heretofore considered entitled
	He originated the idea of Mutual Improve-

[Column 2]
ment Associations, such as exist for our young
people throughout the Church at the present
time. He set the pattern in his own family,and
called upon Sister Eliza R. Snow to organize his
own daughters into an Association. He after-
wards called upon Junius F. Wells to organize
the young men into Associations. He believed
in women holding the ballot, and was anxious
that the women of this Territory should enjoy
the franchise, and was instrumental in securing
to them this privilege. President Young was
also desirous the women of Zion should publish
a paper in their own interest, and was solicitous
that it should be extensively circulated,and that
the sisters should preserve their volumes and
have them bound, for, said he, "it will contain a
portion of Church history, the record of the
works and experiences of women," and in honor
of him the paper was first issued on his birthday,
the 1st of June, 1872. He also called upon the
sisters to store up grain against a day of need,
to use their influence to dissuade their husbands
from sending it out of the country. In short,
his life was made up of the excellencies of labor
in the interests of Zion. To enumerate all his
strong and marked characteristics and unwearied
labors would require greater ability than we pos-
sess, and would fill volumes. He was indeed a
man of the people, raised up when there was
desperate need of strength of character and a
will indomitable in surmounting difficulties
brought to bear against the chosen people of God.
The mantle of Joseph fell upon him, and
he was, it seemed, instantaneously endowed with
power from on high, preparatory to the great
work assigned him to do. His labors were in-
deed arduous, we might say the burdens laid up-
on him wore grievous to be borne, but his
strength was equal to his day. He has finished
his work here and passed behind the vail to join
Joseph and Hyrum and the hosts who are
awaiting the morning of the first resurrection.
In closing, we will quote a stanza from the poem
written upon his death and burial, by Eliza R.
Snow:

There sleeps, the weary flesh, and rests in peace,
While he, the master-spirit of the age,
Associates with the first great leader of
This Dispensation in the ocurts above.

He loved his people—their high destiny
Will be a monument to Brigham Young.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS E. R. S. Smith, E. C. S. Clawson
and L. B. Felt went to Granite yesterday to or-
ganize a Primary Asssociation in that Ward.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young and M. Isabella
Horne left for Richfield May 23d to attend the
Sisters' Conference of Sevier Stake, which
was expected to convene the 27th ult. They in-
tend to visit through the settlements of Sevier
County before returning.

	Ladies Conferences: Weber Stake Conference
will be held in Ogden, 9th, 10th and 11th of this
month. Tooele Stake Conference will be held
in Grantsville on the 11th and 12th of June
Box Elder Conference in Brigham City the 13th
and 14th of June. Utah Stake Conference was
held the 27th of May; Sisters Eliza R. Snow and
E. S. Taylor, of this city attended.

	VOLUME TEN of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
commences with this number. We recommend
to our agents throughout the country to make an
effort to collect subscriptions dne, and also to use
their utmost influence to promote the circulation
of the woman's paper, by seeking to impress up-
on the sisters the necessity of speaking for them-
selves and defending their position from the on-
slau[---] [--] [---] who so basely misrepresent
their social rela[--]s. There is every reason to


believe that during the nine years since the pa-
per was established, much good has already been
done and much more remains to be done by
means of woman's pen.

	Sister Armella C. Bigler, of Nephi, sends us
items of a surprise party given there on the 10th
of May, in honor of Sister Ellen Miller, Presi-
dent of the Teachers. The Teachers of the
Ward went supplied with good things, and with
their smiling faces and merry hearts sought to
cheer her loneliness, as her husband is away up-
on a mission. After the supper was over, Sister
Miller expressed herself exceedingly grateful for
the good feelings shown to her, and blessed the
Teachers who were associated with her in her
labors, and related some very interesting inci-
dents from her early experience in the Church.
Several sisters bore their testimony, expressing
her love and esteem for Sister Miller, for her
faithful labors in the Relief Society, in the Pri-
mary Association and in the Sabbath School.
There were songs, recitations and toasts, and the
company dismissed with singing and prayer.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	UTAH COUNTY.—The total number of names
enrolled for the Utah County Primary Associa-
tion, and deposited in the Jubilee Box, are two
thousand two hundred and forty-seven. Twen-
ty-four Associations in this county are in a flour-
ishing condition, and are thus represented.
					NETTIE SOUTHWORTH,
								Secretary.

	THE Conference of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A. of Salt Lake Stake, will be held on the 17th and
18th insts., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms.
The presidents and officers of all the branches of
these organizations in the County are earnestly
soliclted to be present, as also all the members
and others who can attend. The Presidency of
the Stake and Bishops are cordially invited to be
present. Secretaries should send in their reports
as early in June as possible.

	MR. and Mrs. A. J. Boyer, both newspaper
correspondents from San Francisco, are spending
a few days in this city. Mrs. Boyer for four orfive years edited the "Golden Dawn," a very
able magazine, devoted to woman's work. She
is best known by her nom de plume, "Dora
Darmoore." The lady is a talented writer of both
prose and poetry. The lady is on her way to
visit friends in the East. We wish them a
pleasant sojourn in the City of the Saints.

	ON Sunday afternoon, May 22nd, a
Primary Association was organized in Big Cot-
tonwood Ward. Bishop and Counselors were
present, also Sister Elizabeth Howard, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Ward, and Sis-
ters E. R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Bishop Brinton selected the officers
and Sister Eliza organized. Esther H. Davis,
President; Mary Nielsen and Mary W. Brinton,
Counselors; Mary Sutherland, Secretary; Brana-
ham B. Bitner, Assistant Secretary; Louise
Brockbank, Treasurer. Ninety-six names en-
rolled.

	TUESDAY, May 17, a Primary Association was
organized in the 21st Ward, Bishop Burt and
Counselors being in attendance. A large num-
ber of the leading sisters were present and much
good instruction was given to the children and
parents on the training of the little folks. Sister
Eliza R. S Smith effected the organization:
Bishop Burt making the selection of officers.
Mary Davis, President; Elizabeth Gange and
Mary Ann Higham, Counselors; Fusion Smith,
Secretary; Alice Steers, Assistant Secretary;
Arthur Castleton, Treasurer. One hundred and
thirty names were enrolled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 5


A REORGANIZATION of the Primary Associa-
tion of South Cottonwood was effected on Mon-
day, May 24th, the former President, Mrs. Mar-
tha G. Young, having resigned, on account of
leaving the Ward. Mrs. Young has labored dil-
igently in the position, and been very successful
in bringing the children forward. Bishop Raw-
lins selected as her successor, Mrs. Elizabeth
Davis, President, and a complete new board of
officers. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson organized.
The meeting was an interesting one. Much
good instruction was given by Sister E. R. S.
Smith and other sisters. The Bishop made a
few closing remarks.

	THE Old Folks' Excursion this year will take
place on the 22nd of June, the birthday of the
veteran, Bishop Edward Hunter. On that day
this illustrious father in Israel will be 88
years old. It has been decided that the excur-
sion go to Ogden, which seems to offer better fa-
cilities for enjoyment than any other place. Bro.
C. R. Savage, who is on the committee, tells us
they will take in old folks by the way at all the
stations on the route, and that the party will be
lemonaded and serenaded. One must feel sure
of the success as far as arrangements for en-
joyment is concerned, knowing the committee
to be Bishop Edward Hunter, George Goddard
and C. R. Savage. Particulars will be given in
full in due time.

	ON Wednesday afternoon, May 24, Mrs. R. B.
Pratt, M. D., delivered a most interesting and
instructive lecture in the Social Hall, exclusive-
ly to ladies, for the benefit of a sister who is
about to graduate at Ann Arbor, Mich. Mrs.
Pratt is a pleasing speaker and her manner of
delivery is easy. The lecture was indeed mul-
tum in parvo, but we regret to say it was not
very well attended. The subjects of hygiene and
physiology of the human system must be more
generally understood ere that progress can be
made in race and condition which is expected
will be the result of a higher education. The
young ladies and mothers would do well to de-
vote some time and means to acquire knowledge
upon these subjects and not leave it to the phy-
 sicians alone. It is an imperative duty that every
woman should know something concerning the
forces and attributes of her own being. Towards
the close of the lecture the Dr. laid before the
audience some plain facts substantiating physi-
ologically the system of plural marriage, from
which we will make a few extracts in our next
issue.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

APRIL CONFERENCE, 1881.

	[The Relief Society report was read and ac-
cepted as follows:]
	Officers of the Relief Society central organiza-
tion Eliza R. Snow Smith, President; Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Counselors;
Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary; M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer.
	Stake Presidents who have sent in their er-
ports: Bear Lake, Julia P. Linsey; Davis, Sarah
Holmes; Juab, Amelia Goldsburgh; Kanab,
Elizabeth Nuttall; Millard, Belinda M. Pratt;
Morgan, Lydia Rich; Parowan, Ellen W. Lunt;
Salt Lake, M. Isabella Horne; St. George,
Minerva W. Snow; Summit, Sarah S. Richards;
Tooele, Mary Ann Hunter; Utah, Margaret T.
Smoot: Weber, Jane S. Richards; Sevier, Eliza-
beth Bean; Box Elder, Harriet A. Snow.
	The following organized Stakes not reported:
Beaver, Cache, Wasatch, Arizona, Little
Colorado and Eastern Arizona.
	Total of teachers, 1,530; members, 9,650; of-
ficers and members, 12,288; meetings held, 1,532;
average attendence, 3,834.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT taken, 960.
	On hand at date of last report: Cash, $3,342.21;
property, $24,099.23; wheat, 9,859 bushels.
	RECEIPTS—In cash, $3,279 28; in property,
$3,513.20; in wheat 670 bushels.
	DISBURSEMENTS—To the poor, $3,468.31; emi-
gration, $210.43; temples, $1,214.11; home in-
dustries, $689.97; books, 143.13; missionary, $98.
70, buildings, $1,617.47; Indians $66. 45.
	Totals on hand in cash, property and wheat,
$36,822.24.
	President Cannon passed a high encomium on
the neat and comprehensive report the ladies
had presented, and also on the labors that the
sisters have so zealously performed, and consid-
ered there can be no one at all acquainted with
the good being accomplished by them but must
highly appreciate them.


AT REST.

	Another faithful Saint has been called from
this world of care and sorrow to share in the joy,
blessings, and enjoy the society of the just made
perfect by suffering. On the 18th of May, at
her residence in the 4th Ward, Provo, Mrs.
Hannah Booth, wife of Bishop J. E. Booth, and
daughter of George P. and Edith Billings, after
an illness of three weeks, passed away from
earth to her eternal home. The funeral services
were conducted at the Provo meeting house,
May 20th. Mrs. Booth was born March 12, 1852,
in Provo. Sister Hannah will be missed from
the ranks of those who are patiently striving to
labor for the advancement of God's kingdom on
the earth. She held the dual offices of Counsel-
or to the Y. L. M. I. A. and President of the 4th
Ward Primary Association for several years.
During the past year she has faithfully discharg-
ed the duties of a school teacher in the Ward.
She accepted the position as she did all other re-
sponsibilities, from a sense of duty, discharging
them faithfully and humbly. That her labors were
appreciated, was made manifest by the loving
attentions of friends, and the groups of anxious
little faces which came during her illness to en-
quire how their dear teacher was. Truly has it
been said of her, "She served the Lord in sober-
ness and purity," and was a true, devoted, loving
wife and friend; her faithfulness can only be ap-
preciated now that she is beyond all earthly cures.
O, what a satisfaction it is when we see a
Saint go to rest, surrounded by husband, parents,
relatives and friends, who watch the departing
spirit with the knowledge that "the loved one"
has lived to merit all the blessings which mor-
tals are entitled to, who have lived in accordance
with all of the commandments given to the
Saints. Never was the divine principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage more honored than by Sister
Hannah.
	She sang the hymn, "I'll praise my Maker
while I've breath," a few moments before she
died, her countenance revealing the bliss her
spirit had caught a glimpse of. All outward
emotions were suppressed, for we knew we stood
in the holy presence of angels who had come to
bear to her heavenly home the celestial spirit of
our beloved Hannah.
								A FRIEND.

	Whereas, By the dispensation of Providence,
Sister Hannah T. Booth, the First Counselor of
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation, of the Fourth Ward, Provo; daughter of
Edith and George Billings, and wife of our be-
loved Bishop, John E. Booth, has been called
from our midst by death; and,—
	Whereas, we realize that the labors of our
beloved sister, in our association, have always
tended to set us a praisworthy example to
strengthen us in our faith, and lead us in the
path of truth, virtue and eternal life.


Be it Resolved, That we, the young ladies of
this Association, mingle in sympathy our sor-
rows with the bereaved husband, parents and
family of our dear departed sister, and express
our united prayer and sincere hope, that the
Lord, in his mercy, will comfort them by re-
doubled blessings of His holy spirit, and
	Be it further Resolved,. That a copy of these
resolutions be furnished the husband and par-
ents, be published in the Enquirer, WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and spread on the records of the As-
sociation.
				EMILY G. CLUFF, Pret.
				OTTILIE MAESER, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, April
13th, 1881, of heart disease, Mary Ann Schopp,
daughter of Thomas and Ann Hewitt, and wife
of Phillip Schopp, born Febuary 4th 1827, at
Sutter Leasdel, Derby, England. Baptized July
14th, 1849. Was the mother of 11 children 8 of
whom are now living: deceased was a faithful
member of the Relief Society and died a true
Latter-day Saint. 

	DIED: in Evanston Wyoming Territory, May
8th, 1881, of Paralysis, Sarah Whittle aged 74
years one month and 11 days; she emigrated
from Botton Lancashire, England, September
13th, 1876. Sister Whittle died in full hope of a
glorious resurrection; was a faithful teacher of
the Relief Society of the Evanston Ward, was
always found in the path where duty called her,
and when the message from the Master came,
she was ready with her lamp trimmed and
burning.
		MRS. H. BURTON President R. S.
		MRS. MAUD BURTON, Secretary.
				Millenial Star please copy.


CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	Editor Exponent:—In reading a notice in your
last paper of a Children's Fair, which is in con-
templation, to be held in Salt Lake City this
coming fall, also of one that was held in Farm-
ington last June, 1880, I felt prompted to write
and correct a wrong impression as to where the
first fair was held. Mrs. Ann Dustin, President
of the the Primary Association of East Bounti-
ful, was the originator of the idea, and the first
CHILDREN'S FAIR was held in that place a few
days previous to the one in Farmington.
Through some mistake no visitors were there
from Salt Lake City, therefore no mention was
made of it.					A. S. ROGERS.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Primary Association of the 10th Ward
held its second annual meeting on Friday. May
20th commencing at one o'clock, in the Ward
meeting house, Mrs. Jennie McLean presiding.
Bishop Adam Spiers and Counselor James
Woods were present, also many brethren and
sisters of the Ward. There were many visitors
on the platform—Sisters E. R. S. Smith, B. W.Smith, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne, M. P.
Young, E. S. Taylor, Agnes Park, Mary Gray,
Louie Felt, E. C. S. Clawson, and E. B. Wells,
also Pres. George Teasdale, of Nephi. The
meeting opened with singing, "Open the door
for the children." Prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Singing, "Dare to do right." The children re-
cited in concert the "Articles of Faith;" Birdie
Paul and Hannah Sanders sang "Jesus loves
me;" Theodore Nistrom recited the "Ten com-
mandments;" children sang "Nay, speak no
ill;" Oscar Nistrom [---] the "Lord's Pray-
er;" Mandie Paul, recitation: dialogue by six
little girls; Brigham [---] "I'll never use to-
bacco;" Edith Braby, recitation; Arthur
Woods; solo; Phil[---] Woods and two other girls
sung and played an accompaniment; children
sang, "Joseph Smith's first prayer;" Joseph
Pool and Alma Strong sang; Willie Harry, reci-
tation; Lottie Paul, song composed for the occa-
sion:


6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


We are little, I know, but that's no reason why
	We cannot enjoy ourselves here,
And if we are good, and serve God as we should,
	Then we will have nothing to fear.

We love our dear meetings, our President too,
	And pray for her every day,
That long she may live, good counsel to give,
	That none of us here go astray.

*		*		*		*		*		*

	Arthur Woods, recitation; Rosa Bonquist, re-
citation; Mabel Park recited, with the peculiar
Scotch accent, "Noo barnies, cuddle doon;" Eli-
zabeth Braby, "Word of Wisdom;" Edgar Spiers,
four years old recited, "Stop, stop that rain
till I go out to play."
	Sister Eliza and other ladies addressed the child-
ren upon faith, virtue, prayer and other subjects
of importance and commended them for the
good order they had observed, and also for ren-
dering their respective parts so creditably to
themselves and those who presided over them.
	President Teasdale in a pleasing manner made
a few interesting remarks, and sung a hymn,
previously requesting the children to join in the
chorus, "Let the Saints prepare to meet Him."
Bishop Speirs made appropriate remarks, also
Miss Edmunds one of the Counselers: sang
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
Benediction by Counselor James Woods.
	During the exercises Mrs. E. B. Wells was
presented with a vase of delicate white wax
flowers,—gracefully entwined around a cross—
blue-bells, morning glories, calla lily, pond
lily, heliotrope, ivy etc., all exquisitely artistic
in design and very beautiful in workmanship.
Miss Blanche W. Woods delivered the following
address, in a very happy manner:
	SISTER E. B. WELLS, in behalf of the 10th
Ward Primary Association permit me to say
that we remember with pleasure that two years
ago the 15th of this month, we were honored
with your presence in this house, at which time
you organized the children of this ward into a
Primary Association, with Sister Jennie McLean
as President and Sisters Edmunds and Speirs as
Counselors, since that time we have held meet-
ings regularly, and have been greatly blessed,
and though as children we have been at times
a little wayward, yet we hope that under the
wise and prudent counsel of our president, and
the excercise of a great deal of patience on her
part, we have made some improvement in our
manners, in our habits, and that our faith in
God our Father has increased, and that we are
better able to understand the gospel of His Son,
Jesus Christ.
	We feel assured, therefore, that your labors
have not been in vain, and we pray for you that
you may live long upon the earth, that your
valuable services in the defence of truth and
right may thus be continued, and that you may
have joy in your labors, for we know that you
will ever be remembered in the hearts of the
children of the Latter-day Saints in the Tenth
Ward, and that many in the future will rise up
and call you blessed.
	We now, therefore, ask you to accept this
slight token of our regard, as a memento to
which you may in the future refer and know
that you are remembered by the Primary Asso-
ciation of the Tenth Ward.
	The president, Mrs. McLean, was presented
with a handsome motto, "Praise God from whom
all blessings flow," etc., wrought with silk and
beautifully framed, made and given by Miss
Lydia Bullough.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	The following notice will show what Primary
children can do for Zion.
	On the 23d of April, 1881, the Primary Asso-
ciation of East Bauntiful held their second an-
nual meeting. The children met at half past
one o'clock. After the opening exercises the
time was taken up by the children. Songs were
sung, recitations given, also select reading and
dialogues. Brother Anson Call then addressed
the children and gave them some very good
counsel and expressed himself very much pleas-
ed with the proceedings. A few of the parents
were present. After the meeting closed Presi-
dent Ann Dustin, with her assistants passed
round refreshments to the children, oranges,
candy, cakes, etc., all partook cheerfully and
were well satisfied and left the tabernacle much
pleased. 
	On the 16th of March previous the Primary
Association gave an entertainment in the


tabernacle, the proceeds, $22,30 was donated for
the benefit of the missionaries.
			MISS SARAH H. STODDARD, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

[CONCLUDED.]

	There are no doubt many still living who
remember the perilous times in Kirtland. I
can recollect a time when it was unsafe for a
woman or child to be found alone on the street
after sundown, and when the graves had to be
closely guarded or they were robbed by students
who came from Willoughby, and thought it no
sacrilege to dissect a "Mormon" dead or alive.
To illustrate, I will relate one or two incidents.
A young girl named Rhoda Ballard (who was
living in the family of Bishop N. K. Whitney,
and was afterwards married to his brother Ly-
man) started near sundown to go to her Aunt's
who lived on the opposite side of the river that
runs through Kirtland, there was a foot bridge
across it; but just as she came to it two young
men riding in a buggy stopped and invited
her to ride across which she declined, they then
urged her and she was about to accept when
the horses commenced rearing and being fright-
ened she started to run when one of them who
had got out to help her in tried to put a plaster
over her mouth, but missing his aim, her
screams were heard by a man near by who
came to her rescue; when the fiends saw him
they dropped her and drove swiftly across the
river towards Willoughby. This is no fiction,
as the following will also be remembered by
many, more especially by members of Ezekiel
Johnson's family who were then living near
neighbors to us under the hill as we came
down from Chagrin southeast of Kirtland.
Several of them died from consumption and
were buried on the hill near their house, they
had to be guarded and I was informed that for
weeks they were in the habit of tying a strong
rope to a bier, which was turned over the grave
and the other end to the arm of some one who
slept up stairs; for each one who died, this
course was pursued; three or four of that family
are now living in the southern part of this
Territory.
	One of their sisters that died had beeu our
teacher in Sunday School which she kept at
their house. We were in the habit of reciting
portions or whole chapters to her from the
New Testament and how delighted we felt
when she presented us with pretty little Prim-
ers containing "Babes in the Woods," "Robin
Hood" etc., etc. The mention of this brings to
mind so many sweet remembrances of "the
long ago" when life and all was new and bright
and fair.

"And all was sunshine in each little breast."
'Twas there we chased the slipper by the sound;
And turned the blindfold hero round and round.
'Twas here at eve, we form'd our fairy ring,
And fancy fluttered on her wildest wing,
Giants and genii chain'd each wondering car,
And orphan sorrows drew the ready tear.
Oft with the babe we wander'd in the wood,
Or view'd the forest-feasts of Robin Hood:
Oft fancy led at midnight's fearful hour,
With startling step we scaled the lonely tower;
O'er infant innocence to hang and weep,
Murder'd by rufian hands when smiling in its sleep."

"Lull'd in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are link'd by many a hidden chain.
Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise!
Each stamps its image as the other flies.
Each as the various avenues of sens[--]
Delight or sorrow to the soul dispense,
Brightens or fades yet all with magic art,
Control the latent fibres of the heart."
		Roger's Pleasures of memory.
	These lines from that beautiful little Poem
are so expressive and they remind us of our

[Column 2]
own infant years. Dear are the memories of
childhood of the old familiar faces and scenes
that we loved so well, but all, all are gone from
our sight, and should not this remind us that
"life is but a span?" Then let us see that we are
walking in the straight and narrow path that
when our journey is ended, we will not feel
ashamed to meet our Maker.
	On the 13th, of June at nine A. M., my
father and brethren bade adieu to their famil-
ies and friends in Kirtland and started without
purse or scrip to preach the Gospel in a foreign
land, the first Elders to Great Britain. My
mother and children with a number of brethren
and sisters accompanied them to Fairport.
Sister Mary Fielding, who afterwards became
the wife of Hyrum Smith, gave my father five
dollars with which he paid the passage of him-
self and Brother Hyde to Buffalo. If I rem-
ember rightly she lived with my mother from
that time until married to Brother Hyrum.
	The following is the preface to a pamphlet
published by Robert B. Thompson giving an
account of my father's first mission to Great
Britain and the commencement of the work of
the Lord in that land.
	"It is well known to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints as well as to the
community in general; that the labors of the
Elders have not been confined to this conti-
nent, but that the sound of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ has been heard upon the Islands of the
Sea; and in Great Britain numbers have heard
and rejoiced in the same. Some communica-
tions have been published by the Elders who
have visited that land, which were read with
deep interest by the Saints, who were informed
in the last number of the "Elders Journal,"
published in Far West, Missouri; that I in-
tended to publish a pamphlet giving a detail of
all the principal transactions of the Elders.
while in England; which publication was ar-
dently desired by the Church, and more par-
ticularly by those who had formerly dwelt, and
whose friends yet resided there. But on ac-
count of the unparalleled persecution which has
taken place, and the scattered condition of the
Saints, the publication of the same has been
delayed. Although the Saints have endured
great afflictions, and suffered many things yet
their desire for the prosperity of the cause of
truth and righteousness, is not abated; and their
anxiety to hear of the labors of the servants of
the Lord in a distant nation is probably greater
than ever. A belief that the persual of the
Journal of Elder Kimball would be a source
of comfort to the Saints, and a cause of rejoic-
ing to those who have had to drink of the cup
of sorrow and affliction, and likewise a source
of information and instruction to the Saints
generally, has induced me to publish the same
to the world. The generality of the Saints are
acquainted with Elder Kimball, whose labor of
love and humility is known by all who have
had the pleasure of his acquaintance: while
his uniform conduct and humility since he has
been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, while engaged in different
offices, and in circumstances the most trying
and painful, render it superfluous for me to
attempt to pass any eulogium on his character,
and speak louder than volumes in his praise.
My acquaiutance with him commenced in the
spring of 1837. Feeling a deep interest in the
mission about to be taken to my native country,
I cultivated an acquaintance with all those who
were going there; and it was no small gratifica-
tion to me when I learned that Brother Kim-
ball was to have the superintendence of that
mission. The day appointed for the departure
of the Elders to England having arrived, I
stept into the house of Brother Kimball to
ascertain when he would start, as I expected to
acompany him two or three hundred miles; in-
tending to spend my labors in Canada that sea-
son. The door being partly open, I entered.


[Column 1]
and felt struck with the sight which presented
itself to my view. I would have retired, think-
ing I was intruding, but I felt rivetted to the
spot: The father who was appointed to super-
intend the mission to England, was pouring out
his soul to that,

"God who rules on high,
	Who all the earth surveys;
That rides upon the stormy sky
	And calms the roaring seas."

that he would grant him a prosperous voyage
across the mighty ocean, and make him useful
wherever his lot should be cast, and that He
who "careth for sparrows" and "feedeth the
young ravens when they cry," would supply
the wants of his wife and little ones in his
absence. He then, like the Patriarchs, and by
virtue of his office, laid his hands upon them
individually, leaving a father's blessing upon
and commending them to the care and
protection of God, while he should be engaged
preaching the Gospel in a foreign land. While
thus engaged, his voice was almost lost in the
sobs of those around who tried in vain to sup-
press them. The idea of being separated from
their protector and father for so long a time
was indeed painful. He proceeded, but his
heart was too much affected to do so regularly;
his emotions were great, and he was obliged to
stop at intervals, while the big tears rolled
down his cheeks, an index to the feelings which
reigned in his bosom. My heart was not stout
enough to refrain, in spite of myself I wept, and
mingled my tears with theirs; at the same time
I felt thankful that I had the privilege of con-
templating such a scene.
	I realized that nothing could induce that man
to tear himself from so affectionate a family
group, from his partner and children, who are
so dear to him—nothing but a sense of duty
and love to God, and attachment to his cause,
I prayed that the Lord would bless the labors
of his servant, give him a prosperous voyage,
make him a blessing in my native land, by
bringing many into the kingdom of Christ; that
He would be merciful to his family, and when
it was wisdom in God that he should return,
that he might be brought home in safety, and
rejoice with his beloved family in recounting
the mercies of the Lord. This the Lord has
done in a remarkable manner, and few, if any,
have been as successful as Brother Kimball.
Yet we do not find him boasting in his own
strength; no, he knows it is the Lord's doings,
and that he was only an instrument in his
hands, notwithstanding the great success which
has attended the labors of this servant of the
Lord, the same humility characterizes him, for
which he has been so frequently admired.
The Elders of Israel would do well to copy his
example, and I hope they will receive some
instructions from a perusal of this work par-
ticularly those who may visit Great Britain.
One great cause of his usefulness was, that he
attended closely to the commandments of
heaven, and preached the Gospel in its simplicity
and plainness; without meddling with abstruse
and dark passages, which are only a source of
speculation and tend to strife rather then sal-
vation. It undoubtedly would be pleasing to
the Elders who returned from distant lands to
find their families enjoying the blessing of
peace; but this was denied our brother; for
after a hard and laborious mission, enduring
great fatigue in traveling, and his body reduced
by sickness, he in common with the Saints had
to be driven from his home and be subject to
all the hardships and trials consequent on a re-
moval in the depth of winter from the state of
Missouri. Yet none of these things moved him,
for no sooner was his family in a place of safety
and amongst the Saints, than he prepared for
another mission, and with the Twelve Apostles,
excepting Lyman, Wight, John C. Page and
William Smith, takes his journey to the scenes
of his former labors.

[Column 2]
	The success which has attended the ministry
of the Elders in England and Scotland, is cer-
tainly encouraging and hardly has its parallel
in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Although it has been
principally received by the poor, who have
flocked to hear the tidings of salvation, yet
there are some men of wealth and influence,
who have embraced the Gospel with all their
hearts, and who rejoice in its precious truths.
The information received from the Twelve and
Elders who are now in that land, is of the most
cheering character. A circumstantial account
of which will be found in the Journal."
	From what has been already accomplished,
the Saints can look forward with assurance that
the purposes of the Almighty will be accom-
plished, and that the streams of knowledge
shall flow throughout the world, at which every
honest heart shall drink and satiate until the
knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth,
as the waters cover the deep.

When at first the work began,
	Small and feeble was its day;
Now the word doth sweetly run,
	Now it wins its widening way:
More and more it spreads and grows
	Ever mighty to prevail,
Sins strong hold it now o'erthrows,
	Shakes the trembling gates of hell.

					ROBERT B. THOMPSON.

[Column 3]
more choice of it than she of her one sack of
flour; but alas, for the hopes founded on the
perishable things of the world, flour as well as
gold fails us sometimes. She thought for sev-
eral days that something about the house
smelled peculiar; and determined to find out
the meaning; on investigation she found a
mouse in her sack of flour. The smell had
thoroughly impregnated the flour and ren-
dered it unfit for use. She felt the loss severely,
and those who have plenty and waste their
hundreds of pounds yearly would scarcely
sympathize with her, or understand her feel-
ings. It was the staff of life and even money
could not replace it. Minnie owned a small
pony which her uncle had brought her and she
had succeeded by the help of her friends in
holding claim on it when he went away. It
was a great favorite, and she spent many
happy hours on his back galloping over the
hills and enjoying the pure air of her mountain
home. She was a good horse-woman, and
could saddle and care for him as well as any
one, and he was so small, just right for a lady's
pet; but she must part with him, for she could
no longer afford him food, and if turned on the
range he would do her no good and would very
likely be lost. They were in need, and the
paetty pony must be sold. She shed many
tears at parting with him, but necessity is a
stern master and brooks no delay. All was gone
now but the gold watch and jewels her father
had sent her, and she would suffer much before
parting with them. Minnie was pretty and at-
tractive and, young as she was, she had plenty
of opportunities of marrying; but she felt too
childish to entertain such ideas, she scarcely
knew what love was except the love of kindred,
neither did marriage offer any indncement cal-
culated to induce her to accept the conditions.
The young men were poor, and if one could
build him a cabin and get a team, he was
thought to have a good start, and indeed it was
all one could expect in a new country like this. 
The young people married and went to work
together to make a living, as early settlers
must do everywhere. Land was plenty and
they could raise their provisions, and other
things came but slowly: but somehow children
do not wait for that, but come just as fast as if
their coming made no trouble or expense, and
large families are common in such cases living
in a small house, with very few superfluities
in the way of clothing, but although simply
clad healthy, happy and often hungry without
a care or thought for the future. Marriage
under such circumstances was not alluring even
for one with so poor a home, and as Minnie was
not in love she saw no beauty in it. 
	Several kind friends offered to take Mary
under their protecting care and make a suitable
home for her children; but her feelings revolted
at the thought of marrying again under any
circumstances, and she was not at all in the
humor to accept attentions from the other
sex; her heart was too sore over her recent
disappointment.
				To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 7


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Minnie was then fifteen, proud and sensitive,
and she felt the change deeply, though she
could not comprehend the full meaning of the
situation as Mary did. She felt keenly the
seperation from her father. He had repudiated
them, cast them off, turned them out on the
cold charity of the world, and she would never
see him any more. Day after day those two
poor, lonely hearts sorrowed and wept with each
other. Minnie tried to be brave and comfort
her mother; but in their darkness and weari-
ness there was no comfort but God, no hope
but heaven. There was little time for indulg-
ing their grief, some provision must be made
for the winter. A house must be provided to
live in, which was a difficult thing to get, as
people had not yet built more than their nec-
essities required. They must labor in some
way for a subsistence. Through the summer
she had a few boarders but they had left and
she could not expect any assistance in that
way as boarders were transient and could not
be depended upon. Those who had no homes
of their own, generally hired out for wages and
board, the country being new offered few re-
sources, farming and building were the chief
industries. The women spun and wove and
attended to all the work and the comfort of
their families. Minnie tried to get a situation
as teacher but wherever she applied she was
too late, or thought to be too delicate to manage
a school, as many of the boys, from having no
training in school, having had to herd cattle and
sheep, had become rough and unruly. Failing
in that, there seemed no recourse except a little
sewing from the neighbors, which procured
them a few of the bare necessaries of subsist-
ence.
	They had a sack of flour which they had not
yet opened. It was carefuly reserved for fu-
ture use, and Mary would not open it as long as
they could get any in other ways. She had
learned in years past the value of bread, and
the rich man with his hoarded wealth was not


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HARRISVILLE.

	On Tuesday May 3rd, 1881, the presidency
of Relief Society, also of Y. L. M. I. A., and
Primaries of this Stake met with the people of
Harrisville Ward in the East School House to
perfect the above named organizations and to
organize a Primary. The Ward being very
large wisdom dictated that for convenience two
Societies should be organized. After perfect-
ing the Y. L. and Relief Society organizations,
Sister Stanford, Counselor to Sister Josephine
West, proceeded to organize a Primary in the


[Column 1]
east part of the Ward with the following
officers.
	Mary E. Taylor, President; Flora Taylor,
and Marie Saunders Counselors; Annie E.
Shirtliff, Secretary; Elizabeth J. Taylor, Treas-
urer. The speakers were Sister Jane Richards
R. S. Pres., of Weber Stake, her Counselors
Sister Brown, and Sister Herrick, Pres. of Y.
L. M. I. A., and Counselor Stanford of the
Primaries. Also Bishop P. S. Taylor, of this
Ward. It was remarked that the organiza-
tion of these Associations were designed to
throw a safe-guard around the young to pre-
serve them from the evil influences and vices of
the age; and to this end it needed the coopera-
tion of mothers, and that the officers should be
efficient women and versatile in their selections
of subjects, so the children might be full of in-
terest. All the speakers were spirited in their
remarks. Sister Richards, spoke at some
length but was specially interesting. 43 mem-
bers were enrolled and more added at a meet-
ing held Saturday last.
				ANNIE E. SHIRTLIFF, Sec'y.
	P. S. The Society in the West part of the
Ward was organized the week previous, when
Apostle F. D. Richards Sister Josephine R.
West and all of the above named sisters were
present.

SAMARIA.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—The second annual
meeting of the Primary Association of Samaria
was held Friday evening May 6, 1881, in the
meeting house before a large and well filled
audience several of the Priesthood of the Ward
being present; the evening's entertainment con-
sisted of a song by ten little girls entitled
"Jesus once of humble birth" prayer by Bishop
Evans, singing by the children; "Work for the
night is coming," recitations, songs, dialogues,
were then spoken. Five little girls were then
catechised and songs were sung. Essay on Ob-
edience, one song by a boy and some little girls
between three and five years of age, one recita-
tion a boy four years of age. We then had a
song from ten little girls entitled "God speed
the right." My thoughts went back to the
time of the organization and I could see then
that we had made a little progress since; it
is true it seems slow work with the little ones
while laboring with them, but I feel thankful
to the Lord for his Holy Spirit; that enables
us to persevere in this great and important
work, having faith and praying to the Lord for
strength to lead and guide us all; realizing that
the time will come when these associations will
stand forth a great and mighty host battling
for truth, and they petition to God for blessings
on those that organized them and placed them
in a position where they could be taught in the
laws of their Heavenly Father while they were
young that as they grow in years they may be
preserved from outside influences and from
wolves in sheep's clothing who seek to draw, the
young from the fold, and to bring destruction
upon the people of God. Oh, mothers I would
say, assist your children in their organizations
encourage them to attend their meetings, and
also attend them yourselves do not think it too
much trouble they will repay you in the future;
becoming bright and shining lights crowned
with immortality and eternal lives; may our
Heavenly Father bless all that strive to teach
the young and rising generation is the prayer
of your co-laborers.
	Mrs. Amy Davies, President P. A., Mary
Ann Williams, and Annie Camp Counselors,
Agnes E. Bowen, Secretary, Rebecca Morse,
Asst. Sec'y. George Davies, Treasurer.
	Members enrolled 53; average attendance 35;
meetings held during the year 25; testimonies
borne 111; number of books 2; chapters read
from the Bible and Book of Mormon 12; sec-

[Column 2]
tions from the Doctrine and Covenants 8; read-
ings from miscellaneous 17; essays, recitations,
61; songs 6; classes catechised 2; wheat gleaned
5 bushels; home industries, straw braiding,
							A. E. BOWEN.

PRICE WARD WASHINGTON COUNTY.

	The Sisters of this place were organized into
a Relief Society on the 21, of Feb. 1879,
Sisters Minerva Snow, Anna Ivins, and Hannah
Romney, of St. George being present. Sister
Hannah M. Miles, President, Lydia Blair, and
Lenora Gardner, Counselors; Ruth Fawcett,
Secretary; Margaret Andrus, Treasurer. We
have two teachers and 18 members enrolled;
hold our testimony meetings every fast-day.
We are all trying to do the best we can, we are
knitting socks, making quilts, which we donate
to the Manti Temple. We donate monthly
for the P. E. Fund.
	Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young,
visited us Feb. 5 1881, held meeting at 10, A.
M., which was highly appreciated by all. Met
at 2 P.M. Sister Eliza R. Snow then organized a
Primary Association with 30 members enrolled.
Our meetings are held Saturday afternoons
which are well attended; the children highly
appreciate their meetings and will never forget
those honorable sisters, and if we strictly hearken
to their counsel it will prove a great blessing to
us both here and hereafter.
							RUTH FAWCETT


8	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


"ITS all very fine to have a ready-made rich
man, but may happen he'll be a ready-made
fool; and its no use filling your pocket full of
money if you've got a hole in the corner. I
allays said I'd never marry a man as had got
no brains; for where's the use of a woman hav-
ing brains of her own if she's tackled to a gock
as everybody's laughing at? She might as well
dress herself fine to sit back'ards on a donkey."
—GEORGE ELIOT'S writings.

	AT Madrid, Spain, April 30, the superior
council of education, after a considerably spir-
ited debate of several weeks, decided to admit
women and girls to lectures and degrees of
universities and faculties. Spain has been
looked upon as the very highest type of old
conservatism, but she is in advance of some of
the countries of Europe celebrated for their
learning, in recognizing woman's higher educa-
tion. America, with all her recognition of wo-
man's equality, has not advanced so far as Ma-
drid in making them eligible to degrees.


[Column 1]
﻿ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St.; Old Consititution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obsterics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs In Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING, BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

