VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1882.	No. 20.


QUERY.

I heard a Prophet, one who stands
With name unsullied high in Zion's land,
Thank God, his God and ours, the season
Of his youth was passed while this our
Mountain home was free from all the dire
Temptations, the fruits of evil that beset
Our youth to-day

			Then unto me there came this
Thought—Why must we bear this curse?
Have not the fathers and the mothers
Borne their parts with faithfulness,
Have they not magnified the truth before
High heaven and led their children
								In the path of life?
Are not these children heirs of righteousness,
Is it not these that were reserved for
This set time, this great last day
When mighty men and women too
Should stand upon the Earth,
Should bravely, nobly stand for God and right?
Then wherefore should they fall,
Where is the Fortress weak that the Arch
Enemy has thus crept in and set his
Nets and laid his snares here in
						The very heart of Zion?
If ours the fault, may we not plead,
With God in faith and power, to
Break the chains and set the captives free;
To lift this heavy cloud from off our land,
To help her sons and daughters rise with
One united voice and bid the tempter flee?
That while the world unites to lay Christ's
Kingdom low, to scatter desolation wild
And ruin in our peaceful vales and
Mountain homes, that Zion may arise
And shine, the pure in heart the brave
And true, and there be found no enemy
Within her gates.
			Then might the Great King come and
Claim His own, then might his
Banner wave, and Babel know without
A doubt, with whom it is they cross
The sword, and try their strength;
And learn at last that Christ is
King and Lord of all.
									HOPE.


EPISTOLARY EXTRACTS.
		-------
BY HANNAH T. KING.
		-------

	Your last letter was very suggestive to me,
and set my mind upon a retrospective train;
and now I am going to give you the sum and
substance of my meditations, which I assure
you were agreeable and  edifying to me;  for 
they took  me back to  phases of my life that
the sunshine of memory still lingers  over, for 
I realize in those epochs I received an impetus
that propelled me on to exaltation of mind and
character.
	Have you not realized in your past life, how
beneficial the association of some whom you
met in the path of life had been to you? Did
you not feel, when in their company, that you
seemed to spring to a higher grade of intelli-
gence? That the influence they threw around
you was like that we experience  in the first
vernal days of  the year? Every facutly in you
seemd fertilized, as though you were receiving
a newness of life! that your own mind produced
qualities you had not dreamed were there! your
perception became quickened, your compre-
hension clearer?  These  associates  became to
you  like Mentor to Talemachus! I feel that a
mind like yours, that has ever been open to
the pure and the beautiful, must be humble
and teachable; and must have experienced this
delightful spiritual intercourse, at least once
in your lifetime; and if you  trace back that
association, you will perhaps be astonished to
find how your mind has been colored and your
character moulded, by that intercourse! It
might be, and probably was, a woman much
older than yourself--one who had passed
through a hard school of experience, in that
finest of all schools, the world; who had seen
in it much that was beautiful--had even seen
in it the footprints of Deity--but had also seen
much that was chilling to the soul, and freez-
ing up of the affections. Yet there was that
strength and healthiness  in her composition
that defied disease, or even contamination; she
came from the furnace refined, purified and
strengthened. Such a woman is "an angel in
the way;” she has the faculty to develop the
characters she comes in contact with in the
journey of life, bringing out the latent talents
which even the possessor was not aware of!
Such an associate enlarges the heart, broadens
the brain, dispels narrow prejudices, expands
the sympathies,  destroys false knowledge,
teaches us not to waste and fritter away our
precious life and the time allotted us in trifles,
in this wondrous age of change and progress!
	To such a friend we owe a debt which noth-
ing but gratitude and appreciation can repay,
but carrying out in our lives the lessons they
so faithfully and lovingly exhibited for us to 
learn to practice.
	I would affectionately call  upon my young
sisters to reflect for a few moments on the few
hints I have just given; they are pictures drawn
from my own life! no fiction or imagination in
them, but evangel truth.  Let them be as one
of the silent voices by which we are surrounded,
to whisper to them to be careful with whom
they associate; for a real, true friend, one from
whom practical instruction can be derived, I
would say, choose one who has had a practical
experience--one who has walked the road of
life with her eyes open, and every faculty cul-
tivated and awake. In such an one there is
a set of beautiful, complex machinery, ready
for action, whether for the useful or the orna-
mental, whether for the intellectual or the
physical,  whether in "the house of feasting or
the house of mourning," in all she will be
equally ready and equally "at home."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Ladies' University at St. Petersburg has
a physical laboratory with 130 students, a chem-
ical laboratory with 60 students, and a phys-
iological laboratory with 100 students.

	HISTORY of Woman Suffrage in Massachu-
setts" by Mrs. H. H. Robinson has this pecu-
liar and significant motto to the title, "Woman's
hour has struck."

	A BILL has passed the Kentuckey senate
giving married women the right to own real
and personal property in the same manner that
the husband can, property belonging to him.

	THE Speaker presented the Memorial from
the Utah Legislative Assembely asking Con-
gress to suspend action upon Utah affairs until
a committee of investigation learns the fact and
lays a tangible foundation for rational proceed-
ings. Referred.


THE women of Massachusetts are making
special effort to secure municipal suffrage this
winter.

	THE first prize for cocoons at the Philadel-
phia silk fair was awarded to the mother of the
late Bayard Taylor.


ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.

   It is pleasant to reflect upon the many sweet as-
sociations we have had with those who have been
faithful servants and handmaidens in the Lat-
ter-day work.  The subject of this brief sketch
was one of the most truly refined of women.  In
spiritual cultivation she ranked among the
highest, and her grace of manner, courtesy and 
kindness won all hearts.  She possessed that
genuine simplicity which is ever childlike and
which invariably reminded one of the Savior’s
words, “Except ye be as this little one, ye can
in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven."
	Elizabeth Ann Smith was the daughter of
Gibson and Polly Bradley Smith, and was
born the day after Christmas Dec. 26,. 1800 at
Derby, New Haven Co. Conn.  When young
she received what in those primitive times, was
considered a superior education; for in addition
to the common branches taught in the village
schools, we learned the art of dancing, un-
der the best masters.  Her early home-life was
most happy, and she grew up in an atmosphere
of love and tenderness without care or sorrow.
She was carefully instructed in all household 
employments, and in spinning flax and fine or-
namental needle work, these things in those days
were considered essential branches of woman’s
education.
	When about,18 years of age she went with
a maiden aunt,  Sarah Smith (spinster) to
Ohio on a visit, but it so happened that she
never returned to her old home again, nor did
she ever afterwards see her beloved mother.
She married Oct. 26, 1822 Newel K. Whitney
a young man from Vermont, who had estab-
lished himself in mercantile business in the
West, and after their marriage they settled per-
manently in Kirtland, Ohio. Subsequently
Bro. Whitney and wife became devoted mem-
bers of the Campbellite Church.  (In 1830,
Parley P. Pratt visited Kirtland and preached
the Everlasting Gospel, and among the first to
receive his testimony were Brother and Sister
Whitney, who were baptized in November
1830.  At that time Sister Whitney had three
children living and two had died.  The follow-
ing Spring when Joseph the Prophet and his
wife Emma went to Kirtland it was at the
house of Newel K. Whitney they were gladly
received and hospitably welcomed.  Many of
the revelations given in that early day, Joseph
recieved in one of their upper rooms.  The gift
of song which Sister Whitney possessed in such
a rare degree was often a comfort to the Pro-
phet in those days of trial and gloom.  He
would sit as it were spell bound and listen to
the rich melody of her magnificent voice for
the time so absorbed, as to forget his sorrows.
Very early in the Church she receieved the
gift of tongues  which manifested itself to her
in songs of praise and rejoicing.  She possessed
a reverential, prophetic and poetic tempermeet
and the spirit of the Gospel strengthened in
her all these exalted attributes.  The language
she sang, was the pure Adamic and Joseph pro-
mised her if she used the gift in wisdom she


[Column 1]
should never lose it and his words were verified.
	If all the hymns, psalms, and songs she has
given utterance to had been written, we should
have a choice collection of musical pieces.
Her voice was birdlike and full of symphony,
	Sister Whitney removed from Kirtland to
Illinois in 1838, and arrived in Nauvoo in the
spring of 1839.
	In Nauvoo the beautiful home of the weary
Saints who had fled from the mobs of Missouri,
there was much suffering from chills and fever,
it was what is termed an ague country, and the
people were not prepared to battle with it.
The family of Bishop Whitney were afflicted
with this terrible disease, all succumbed one
after the other until there was not one left to
wait upon the others; but kind and loving
friends ministered to them and on more than one
occasion the Prophet Joseph himself prepared
tea and took to them, offering it himself for their
nourishment. Sister Whitney was very delicate
and had been accustomed to servants to wait
upon her, now she was ill and a family of
children sick looking to her and no servant
to help her, but few luxuries and poor accom-
modations, still no complaint ever escaped her,
no repining for the home she had left. She
cheered and encouraged her husband through
all the trials they experienced, and was a help-
meet to him in very deed.
	In 1840, before they had succeeded in get-
ting a home of their own or any comforts
around them another son was born which in-
creased the number of children to seven and
the mother's care and responsibility was thus
enlarged but no murmur was ever heard from
her lips. Her smile was as sweet, her voice
as musical as ever, and the sisters who were
greatly perplexed with many things, and often
sorely tried, would go to Sister Whitney for
counsel and sympathy and she turned none
away empty, but in her beautiful way strength-
ened them in humility and good works, thus
helping to lift the burdens that oft press heavily
upon womankind.
	Sister Whitney was one of the very first of
her sex who received the ordinances of the
House of the Lord and to officiate as a Priest-
ess in holy places and afterwards in the Temple
in Nauvoo where hundreds of the daughters of
Eve were blest under her hands. When the
Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo she
was chosen and ordained First Counselor to the
President, Emma Smith, and being possessed
of the greateat genuine sympathy and benevol-
ence she was well adapted to the position, and
filled it with honor and credit, gaining the love
and gratitude of all to whom she was called
through circumstances to minister, ever be-
stowing favors and blessings in the most unos-
tentatious manner. Sister Whitney has always
been possessed of great, yea, mighty faith in
administering to the sick and afflicted.
	In Nauvoo the Church progressed rapidly in
knowledge of things pertaining to preparation
for a future state. Many wonderful principles
were revealed to the Prophet Joseph and from
him to his faithful brethren and sisters. Sister
Whitney was one of the purest of women and
was therefore a chosen vessel of the Lord.
She was taught the principle of plural marriage
by the Prophet himself and as a proof of the
testimony she received from the Lord in ans-
wer to prayer; she and her husband gave in
this order of marriage their daughter Sarah
Ann when seventeen years of age to the Pro-
phet Joseph, with their free and full consent.
She was the first woman given in this dispensa-
tion with the consent of the parents. These
things were not done rashly but in the fear
of God with fasting and prayer. In Jan-
uary 1844, Sister Whitney became the honored
mother of the first child born in the new and
everlasting covenant of marriage, a daughter
whom the Prophet blessed when a babe and
named Mary.

[Column 2]
	It was very early in the year 1845 that Bis-
hop Whitney decided to enter upon the practise
of the principle of plural marriage, and his wife
freely and with characteristic magnanimity of
soul gave her consent for others to share with her
the home and society of the husband she loved
and honored. Such proof of devotion to prin-
ciple cannot be ignored by One on high, who
sees not as man sees, and those true daughters
of Sarah who established the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage upon the earth
in this dispensation have secured to themselves
"a more exceeding and eternal weight of glory."
	In February, 1846, when the Saints were
exiled from their homes. while the Mississippi
was frozen over, Sister Whitney left her com-
fortable home, and crossing the river on the
ice with her little children, who were feeble
and sickly, she bade adieu to all, without ever
repining, and endured all the hardships inci-
dent to traveling through a new and unbroken
country. In consequence of exposure, and
sleeping upon the cold ground, she contracted
rheumatism, from which she never entirely re-
covered; she suffered very greatly, and at one
time almost entirely lost the use of her right
arm; through faith and anointing it was re-
stored, though never entirely free from pain. 
	While encamped at Winter Quarters Sister
Whitney had another son born, making eleven
children in all that she had borne. She suf-
fered very much, but she had always a testi-
mony to bear to the truth of the Latter-day
work. Her little son was called Newell Mel-
chizedek, and although he was small and fee-
ble, yet she clung to him with that marvelous
faith which she possessed in such an eminent
degree, and when to all human evidence he
seemed to be dead, she cried unto the Lord,
and He gave her the dead to life again in an-
swer to prayer. In Winter Quarters, Sister
Whitney passed through some of the most try-
ing ordeals which woman could suffer and live,
yet her faith remained unshaken, and she
seemed to draw still nearer to the throne of
heaven, laying all upon the altar for the Gos-
pel's sake. She had the joy and satisfaction of
having her two eldest sons, Horace and Orson,
among the pioneers who came to this valley in
1847. In May, 1848, she, with her husband
and family started enroute for the valley in the
company of Heber C. Kimball. The toils of
that wearisome journey, to that frail, delicate
mother, with her large family and helpless
babe, no tongue can tell, nor pen portray.
Only the angels, who possess infinite power, can
make a fitting record of such devotion and
heroism. Arriving in the valley in October,
worn and weary with fatigue and hardship,
Sister Whitney still preserved the same sweet
spirit and equanimity of soul. She had always
a word of consolation for those who had not
the same unbounded faith, and her charity, for
the weak and tried ones was most sublime.
	In September, 1850, not quite two years
after arriving in the valley, Bishop Whitney
died very suddenly; it was thought by many of
Sister Whitney's friends she could not long
survive after this sudden shock; and besides,
the Bishop had been a most attentive and de-
voted husband, almost anticipating her every
thought and wish. But Sister Whitney rallied
quickly, and accepted the conditions of her be-
reavement without complaint. Her little son,
who was afflicted with disease of the spine re-
quired the most constant and tender care, and
in her love for him and her anxiety he should
grow up to manhood, she was so intensely ab-
sorbed as to forget her other griefs and cares. 
	As soon as a place was prepared for endow-
ments, President Young called upon Sister
Whitney to take charge of the woman's de-
partment; and, leaving her little lame boy in
care of her daughter, Ann Maria, she went
day after day to bless the daughters of Zion,
and continued in this holy calling for many

[Column 3]
years, until her failing health would no longer
admit of the labor.
	In 1855 her little son, Newel M., died; but
he had lived to receive the ordinance of bap-
tism, and been ordained to the holy priesthood,
and so this faithful mother laid him away, feel-
ing that all was well and God knew the best.
She ministered for years after in the Endow-
ment House, which seemed the greatest conso-
lation after the death of her darling boy.
Her children one by one married, and her
home became more lonely, until at last she left
it to reside with her youngest daughter, Mary.
The same angelic spirit ever seemed to hover
over her, and wherever she went this sweet in-
fluence accompanied her. The sisters will re-
call with feelings of satisfaction the sweet mel-
ody of her voice, as she poured forth songs
of blessing and praise, in the pure language in
which she sometimes sung in the meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. But
she has gone from our midst; we miss her sweet
associations, but her memory will ever be fondly
cherished in the hearts of the women of Zion.
	Sister Whitney had been for more than
thirty-one years a widow, and for many years
the cares of life pressed heavily upon her, but
her spiritual nature was always equal to the
temporal burdens, so that she was never really
cast down, but buoyant with faith and hope.
We cannot mourn for her, for we know she is
happy; her pure spirit is free and untram-
meled, and she rejoices with those who have
gone before—Joseph and Hyrum, her own be-
loved companion, with whom she is reunited,
her little ones and the hosts of Saints who
await the morning of the first resurrection. 
Farewell, dearly beloved Mother in Israel, till
we meet again where there is no more parting
for ever and ever.
	Sister Whitney was the mother of eleven
children, six of whom are now living; she had
thirty-three grandchildren and thirteen great
grand children. She occupied at the time of
her death the position of Second Counselor to
Sister E. R. S. Smith, President Presiding Board
Relief Society.
	Perhaps no woman was better known in Is-
rael than Sister Whitney, unless it be Sister
Eliza. These two were intimately associated
from the early days of the Church in Kirtland,
and even before, in the Campbellite Church,
of which they were both members.
	The funeral of Sister Whitney was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday Feb.
17th, at ten o'clock A. M. There were many
children, grand-children and other members of
the family of Bishop Whitney present, also
many officers and members of the Relief Society.
The hall was well filled with brethren and
sisters.
	A harp woven of choice and fragrant flowers
was laid upon the coffin a beautiful reminder
of the sweet angelic voice that has so often
gladdened the hearts of many. Also a sickle
wreathed in lovely white flowers and a sheaf of
wheat truly emblematic in its signification.
	Pres. A. M. Cannon conducted the services.
The Tabernacle Choir rendered "O my Father
thou that dwellest" Prayer by Elder John
Pack. Singing "Nearer my God to Thee."
After which remarks were made by Coun. D.
H. Wells, Elder Lorenzo Young, Apostle Wil-
ford Woodruff, Pres. Joseph F. Smith and
Pres. A. M. Cannon, the speakers dwelling
much upon the exemplary life and amiable
character of the departed. Choir sang "How
firm a foundation" &c. Benediction was pron-
ounced by Pres. Cannon.
	When the procession arrived at the cemetery
Coun. Wells offered prayer, dedicating and con-
secrating the ground. Choir sang, "There is
sweet rest in heaven."
	We publish, as a fitting testimonial of her
life and character, the poem written for her on
her last birthday.					E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER WHITNEY.
	----
<wu9tne, voice="" tl="" fa="" .="" fjbpromotlng="" peace—defending="" right.="" :.="" .i="" t="" -,="" 010="" bearenly="" light.="" .,i="" ..="" jthf="" pgmdwne,="" whose.ateady="" glow,="" has="" markedthy="" footsteps="" here="" b$low;="" made="" .tiiy="" earthly="" life="" divine,="" ‘'andwlth="" empyrean="" luster="" shine.'="" ’="" i="" 6h;3we="" would="" bless="" thee="" on="" this="" day,'="" ‘="" ;="" -="" ju="" nwwhlle="" yet="" encased'in’mortal="" clay,="" 1="" sbtt="" "="" whlje="" thy="" sympathetic="" heart,="" can="" to="" our="" 6onls="" such="" joys="" impart;="" is="" till="" while="" we="" hear="" thysweet="" refrains;-="" fap-and="" profit="" by,the="" mystic="" strains,="" bitrhat="" 001110="" as="" b?m,erapblc="" lyres,="" ,,="" and="" kindle="" trutisimmortal.fires.="" rr="" esdly="" give="" words="" oi'cheer,="" ip="" comfort="" herev="" wf="" jji="" tyonld="" keep="" from="" the="" world'above,1="" u="" 3="" <’="" earth="" with="" heaven’s="" lore.="" v="" tefil="" lo'nr="" belfish="" love="" here,="" iil="" forever="" iq="" lower="" sphere;="" ,="" r="">ON HER 81ST. BIRTHDAY, DEC. 26TH, 1881.
	----
Daughter of peace - to thee our lay,
Shall be attuned this natal day.
We fully recognize thy worth,
and bless the day that gave to earth
Thy spotles soul, with grace refined,
Where all the virtues seem combined.
Celestial hosts with us rejoice,
To hear thy fearless, winsome, voice
Promoting peace - defending right,
Reflecting back the heavenly light.
The light divine, whose steady glow,
Has marked thy footsteps here below;
Has made thy Earthly life divine,
And with Empyrean luster shine.
Oh, we would bless thee on this day,
While yet encased in mortal clay,
While yet thy sympathetic heart,
Can to our souls such joys impart;
While we can hear thy sweet refrains,
And profit by the mystic strains,
That come as from seraphic lyres,
And kindle truth's immortal fires.
We gladly give thee words of cheer,
To bless and comfort thee while here;
Would keep thee from the world above,
To bless the Earth with heaven's love.
Our selfish love would keep thee here,
Forever in this lower Sphere.
Tis well we cannot this control,
To fetter thus thy spotless soul.
We only hope, for years to come,
Thy presence may adorn our home,
May cheer us with thy gladsome smile,
And weary hours of life beguile.
And yet we feel, that Angels bright,
In realms of glory, love and light,
Are waiting in supernal heights,
To waft thee home to their delights.
Already more than four-score years,
Within this gloomy vale of tears
Thy blameless life with love replete,
Has been our gracious paraclete.
When thou art gathered home to rest,
Thousands here whom thou hast blest,
Will herald forth thy righteous fame,
And venerate thy holy name.
Thy name, that now, to us so dear,
Our children's children will revere.
When earthly name in heaven shall be,
Transplanted in Eternity,
No name among the list will shine,
With brighter luster there than thine.
					ISAAC GROO.


[Column 1]

A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

CONCLUDED.

	Sister Zina spent a few days looking about
New York City, during which time she called
upon Dr. Holbrook, editor of the Herald of
Health, who received her with great courtesy 
and kindness, and with whom she had a most
interesting conversation on Utah.
	Leaving the great metropolis, she went to 
Jefferson County to visit her relatives; her old
home, the home of her childhood, was there
also, and many pleasant memories were awak-
ened on renewing old acquaintances and ram-
bling over the familiar places, and recalling
the scenes and incidents of other days. Her
friends welcomed her warmly, and were de-
lighted with her personally, but her religion
they wanted not. Indeed, it was offensive to
some of them. She met with amny who be-
lieved in spiritualism and advocated strange
theories, counterfeits in some instances of the
ordinances and powers of the Priesthood. Sis-
ter Zina attended a great many meetings in 
the different churches, and heard many cele-
brated divines of the day speak on the doc-
trines of their respective denominations.
	In October last Mrs. Young attended the

[Column 2]

Woman's Congress at Buffalo N. Y., and had
the opportunity of hearing addresses from some 
of the most popular speakers of the women of
our time. She was refused even five minutes 
to represent the women of Utah on the subject
of suffrage, although Mrs. Spencer, of Wash-
ington interceded for it.
	After the Buffalo Convention, she went back
to Watertown, to the northern part of the 
State, and from there to the State of Vermont,
to visit other relatives and gather up genealo-
gies. While in that State she had the privi-
lege of speaking on one occasion at a Temper-
ance Convention. She visited in Albany Co.,
New York, where there are a few Latter-day 
Saints, and always spoke in the meetings she
attended.
	Mrs. Young returned to New York City in
time for the N. W. S. A. Convention of the
State of New York, which she attended, and
where she met Mesdames Anthony, Gage, Lock-
wood, Blake, Slocum and other noted lady
speakers. Mrs. Young was not, however, in-
vited to speak, although she could have repre-
sented a class of women who have exercised
the privilege of the franchise for twelve years,
and were well acquainted with its practical
workings. There is no denying the fact that
the only difficulty in the way of representation
was "Mormonism." But Sister Zina is a Chris-
tian, possessing that meek and quiet spirit
which is in the sight of God of great price; 
but the world does not recognize it. Without 
being aware of Mrs. Young's connection with
Utah and the Latter-day Saints, she might have
spoken anywhere that a woman would be allowed
the privilege of speaking at all. But while in
New York Sister Zina assisted the brethren in
organizing a Relief Society, and gave the nec-
essary instruction to initiate the sisters in their 
work.
	Lieut. Willard Young accompanied his
mother to West Point, where she had a most
interesting visit with Richard Young, from
Utah, now a cadet in the Military Academy
there.
	Mrs. Young went one evening to hear Dr.
Newman speak on Mormonism in a church in
New York City. His discourse was a tissue of
falsehoods on Mormonism throughout, and he
seemed to entertain a bitter and vindictive
spirit towards the "Mormon" people.
	Mrs. Young returned to this city on Tues-
day evening, March 7, and was made the re-
cipient of a surprise party of ladies, by her 
daughters, Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beatie. 
They had invited a few of their mother's inti-
mate friends to welcome her on her arrival.
Refreshments were served, and conversation
was free and unrestrained by coldenss or cere-
mony. Mrs. Phebe Beatie played in a very 
feeling and expressive style "Home Sweet
Home" on the piano.
	On the Friday following, March 10, the Re-
lief Soceity Conference of Salt Lake Stake
convened, where Sister Zina had an opportu-
nite of meeting and greeting many old friends,
who were ahppy in seeing her again in their
midst, and hearing her relate some interesting
experiences. The women of Zion welcome
Sister Zina back again to her mountain home;
here her worth is appreciated, here her labors
are greatly needed. The world know her not,
but in a future day they may perhaps be aware
of their error.
	There are many incidents in the lives of the 
women of this Church that are worthy of 
record, and will form interesting matter for
history; and foremost among those whose 
works of love and charity will help to embell-
ish history's page, will be the name of Zina D.
H. Young. 
	May her future be as rich in good works as
the past has been, and the rich experience
through which she has passed prove to her a
storehouse of wealth, from which she may

[Column 3]

draw at will for the benefit of others. Her
life has been woven of silker skeins, though
often hard twisted, and difficult to soften, and
occasionally a very rough place in the fine spun
thread which she has sought to weave in with
the skill of an accomplished artist, and all has
been so harmoniously blended by light and
shade, that looking back now over the com-
plete web still in the loom, one might wonder
if there were any rough, hard spots, all is so
apparently smooth and shining.	E. B. W.


THOUGHTS.

   It is a safe rule for us all and as wise as it is
safe to never do or say anything except that up
on which we can honestly ask the approval and
blessing of God.   Such a course will preserve
us from many temptations and deliver us from
many snares.  It will also strengthen us in the
path of daily duty.  Furthermore, that upon
which we ask the blessing of God, we should
do with all our might.  Half-heartedness is
not a virtue, especially in serving the Lord;
nor is it a recommendation in our daily con-
tracts with our fellow men.
   We should all have something useful to do,
and we should do it well.   Each of us should
choose an honest calling, and then endeavor to
be perfect in that calling.  It is not wise to
despise small things, for trifles make the sum of
large things and little, by little, step by step,
--seldom by giant strides--we progress towards
the perfection of goodness or retrograde towards
its opposite.  The toilers in the soil, in the 
mine, in the canyon and in the workshop con-
stitute the basis of the wealth of this  world
rich; and the more effectually that labor is
directed, the better for us all.  In this lies the
revelations of God, regarding the concerns of
our every day life.  Promptness, punctuality,
honesty industry and civility are key words to
success in the labors, the duties, and busi-
ness of life.
   Be prompt, thus you will be first in the mar-
ket.  Be punctual, then others will put con-
fidence in your word. Be honest, there is no
excuse to be otherwise; it wears the best and
triumphs in the end. Be economical, wasteful-
ness is one of the great sins of the age.  Be
polite, nothing valuable is lost by civility and
kindness. Be industrious for labor is life, and
withal trust in God and keep His laws.
					ERNESTINE HOLLING.
	Manuscript paper, 11th Ward.


ONE of the wealthy and fashionable women
of Zanesville, Ohio, astonished a large company
of keno gamblers by walking coolly into the
room where they were at play, accompanied by
a policeman. She was in quest of a young
brother who had become possessed of an uncon-
trolable mania for gambling; and she not only
took him away, but secured enough evidence
to convict the proprietors of the place, which
was closed up.

	LUCY STONE says that early in the legisla-
tive session in Maine Senator Dudley moved
to amend the Constitution by striking out the
word "male." He was denied a special com-
mittee, and his bill was not fairly treated.
Then the women of Maine sent in a petition for
school suffrage sixty feet long, with a double
row of names. On this petition there were a
majority and a minority report. A motion to
accept the minority report in favor of the pet-
itioners was carried by one vote. Immediately
a motion was made to indefinitely postpone
the whole question, which was carried by
the majority, at which there was loud ap-
plause." The bold Legislators had put down
the women in a place,where no woman could
speak or vote, and then they applauded them-
selves!—Ex.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00: one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	—	MARCH 15, 1882.


SOME THINGS FOR REFLECTION.
	The passage of the Edmunds' anti-polygamy
bill is at present the general topic of conversa-
tion. It passed the House by a vote of 199
against 42 on Tuesday, March 14. In what way
the United States government proposes to make
the law successfully practical, a person with the
most fertile imagination would be at a loss to de-
termine. One cannot help seeing for himself
that these plural families can never be separated
from each other without the most dreadful con-
sequences. Is the government of the United
States prepared to shoulder the responsibility of
such proceedings? Are those who voted for the
bill aware that they are bringing into bondage the
flesh and blood of their fellow creatures, born
free and equal with them? It seems impossible!
Are the very men who, by the spilling of so
much precious blood, liberated the negro from
slavery, about to place "in durance vile" white
men and women, and condemn them to ingno-
miny and shame, simply for the practice of reli-
gious principles which they implicitly believe to
be of divine origin?
	And is this condemnation, this punishment,
to be retro-active, extending back to those who
broke no law when they entered into that order
of marriage, since declared unlawful by the Su-
preme Court of the United States? Can this be
done? Can plural marriages be punished as a
crime, that were solemnized previous to the law
of 1862? Who are to be the greatest sufferers in
this conflict, when adverse legislation is sought
to be enforced here? Women and children prin-
cipally, as the proportion of these will be much
greater than that of men? Is it possible that
the wise men of this nation are so lost to the
consideration due men, women and children, that
they could see an innocent, inoffensive people
thus oppressed, thus cruelly wronged, their lives
embittered, their hopes of happiness shattered,
their happy homes desolated, their peaceful Ter-
ritory, now so inviting and prosperous, made the
scene of dire confusion, plunging it, by one
stroke of political power unwisely wielded, into
social and financial ruin.
	Such a momentous question has never at any
time in the history of the nation been brought
before the American Congress, and one cannot
help asking– how is it possible thus to deprive
American citizens of the birthright of freedom,
and disfranchise those whose forefathers valiant-
ly fought for the liberty of the Republic, render-
ing their condition more deplorable than that of
the poorest peasant in foreign lands? Thousands
of this people are as proud of their American
blood as any of the men who sit in the Congress
of the United States.
	For the honor of that august body, the Forty-
seventh Congress, it should be recorded there
were some high-minded, brave, fearless men
who dared to speak the truth in behalf of jus-
tice, even for the "Mormons." Their name


will be held in honorable remembrance while
time endures, by all people who are not grossly
blinded with prejudice.
	It yet remains for the President of the
United States to set his seal upon the Edmunds' 
bill—and after that its practical enforcement
through the five commissioners. The effect of
these changes upon the industrial affairs of the
people will be most disastrous. But there are
forces at work for the Saints not visible to any
human eye. This people are in the hands of that
God whom they have sought to serve, and He
will in His own way and time, work out their de-
liverance from evil of whatever name or nature.


VISIT TO TOOELE.

	By invitation of the Sisters at Tooele, we at-
tended their Conference in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, leaving this city on Saturday
morning, the 11th inst. We arrived at Tooele
in time to hear the first hymn sung at the open-
ing of the Conference. The morning was mostly
occupied by the reading of reports, although
the President, Mrs. Hunter, and the sisters
from Salt Lake made a few remarks.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations
was held in the afternoon, a good attendance of
the children of Tooele, who answered readily a
chapter of questions from the book entitled
"Questions and Answers," by E. R. S. S.  Pres.
Gowans, of Tooele Stake, stated that Mrs. Re-
becca Williams, the former President of the P.
A. of Tooele Stake, had sent in her resignation,
having moved to another part of the Territory.
The resignation was formally accepted, and on
motion of  Bro. Gowans, Mrs, Sarah Hale, of
Grantsville, was appointed and sustained by vote
of the Conference to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Jane
Bowen was nominated and sustained as Presi-
dent of P. A., Tooele City, also in place of Mrs.
Williams, who had resigned.
	Evening session: Conference Y. L. M. I.
A. Tooele Stake. A very large congregation.
Minutes of previous Conference were read; also
reports. The remainder of the time was occu-
pied in giving instruction to the young people.
	Sunday morning we visited the Sabbath
School, which was very interesting indeed. The
children observed the best of order, and the ex-
ercises were very well rendered. The sisters
from S. L. City talked a little to the children.
	In the afternoon after the Sacrament was ad-
ministered, pursuant to adjournment, the Relief
Society Conference resumed its session, and
Prest. Gowans presented the officers of the Pre-
siding Board of the Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. In consequence of the vacancy occa-
sioned by the death of the First Counselor, Mrs.
Elizabeth Clegg; Mrs. Emily Warburton was
presented for the approval of the Conference;
the motion was unanimously carried. The
speakers were Mesdames E. B. Wells, E. S.
Taylor and Apostle F. M. Lyman. Conference
adjourned for three months.
	In the evening the Conjoint meeting of Y. L.
and Y. M. M. I. A. convened in the meeting
house, a very large assembly. The exercises
were well rendered and very interesting.
	During the meetings the attendance was very
large indeed, Apostle F. M. Lyman, Prest.
Gowan, Bishops and many other brethren being
present, and giving much encouragement to
those laboring in these organizations.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE twenty-fifth session of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah closed its session last week.
Much hard work was accomplished by the mem-
bers, and some very good bills were passed and


obtained the signature of the Governor.  All the
bills passed which concerned women specially,
were vetoed by the Governor.
	Council Bill C. F. 26.  To establish and protect
the identity of married women, vetoed. H. F.
69. To protect the maternal rights of married
women, vetoed.  These two bills were Mrs. E.
P. W. Packard's framing and the contents of the
bill are as followes.
	"Be it enacted," &c.
	Section 1.  Henceforth woman shall retain the
same legal existence after marriage as before
marriage, and shall receive the same protection of
her rights as a woman, which her husband does
as a man; and for any unjust usurpation of
her natural cr property rights she shall have
the same right to appeal in her own name
alone, to the courts of law or equity, for redress,
that the husband has.
	Sec. 2.  All laws or portions of laws incon-
sistent with the forgoing are hereby repealed.
Mrs. Packard is from Chicago and has been
here some time in the interest of her bill which
she is anxious should receive the strength and ap-
proval of the Legislature in every State and Ter-
ritory.  Mrs. Packard is a very intelligent lady,
has had a fine education,her voice is pleasing and
she is possessed of a rare gift of language.
	We wish her success in her noble work for the
elevation of woman, and sincerely hope that all
Governors will not refuse to sign a bill for the
legal emancipation and identity of married
women.	History Of the Mormon Battalion, by
Daniel Tyler of Beaver is now ready for sale.
The book contains 376 pages, is printed in good
style on clear paper, large new type, and makes
a very handsome volume for the library or home.
The subject matter is most intensely interest-
ing. The first chapter Introductory is from
the pen of Pres. John Taylor, and is very affect-
ing, relating definitely the scenes and incidents
of the Martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, his
own experience when with them in Carthage
jail wounded almost unto death.  It cannot fail
to impress the reader with admiration for the
character of those noble men who suffered so
curelly at the hands of a violent mob.  Then
follows a lengthy article by Gen. Thomas L.
Kane on the Mormons as he found them in 1846,
after the explusion from Nauvoo.  The second
chapter introduces the subject of the Mormon
Battalion and opens with a poem from the pen
of Eliza R. Snow.  The reader will not be dis-
appointed in this book, it is very ably written and
cannot fail to be attractive reading as well as
being truthful in all its details.  Brother Tyler
has been several years collecting and preparing
the matter and has spared neither means or
pains to make it a historical record of the cam-
paign.  He deserves the thanks and patronage
of the public for his industry and perseverance
for he has labored under great difficulties, and
has by indomitable energy at last succeeded in
publishing.  It is a book this people should put
into the hands of their children that they may
know the sufferings, toil, privation and hard-
ship endured by these brave volunteers and their
families.  The book is for sale at the office of the
Juvenile Instructor where it was published,
leather binding $3.00  cloth $2.50  morocco
gilt $4.25.


IN MEMORIAM.

	The death of Mary Ann Ellis Watkins, oc-
cured under very trying circumstances. She died
in child-birth, at St. John's, Arizona, on the 16th,
of January, 1882. It was her first child. Both
mother and infant lived but a very short time
after the parent was delivered of her offspring.


[Column 1]
	The sad event waa not only a severe bereave-
ment to her husband, Elder Hyrum J. Watkins,
but also cast a deep gloom over the neighborhood,
in this city where she was raised. Sister Wat-
kins was widely known and much beloved, and
her early demise is deeply lamented.
	Deceased, a daughter of Elder John and Sister
Mary Ann Ellis, was born in Ogden City, Utah,
March 6th 1857, and was blessed when a babe
according to the order of the Church. She was
baptized July the 5th 1866, July 25th 1875, was
re-baptized. Being born in the Church, she was
a firm believer in all its doctrines as taught by
those who are called of God. She received a
knowledge of the truth of this great work, and
was ever ready to testify to it in the congrega-
tions of the Saints.
	On the 9th day of Sept. 1875, she first spoke in a
public meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. Her words
were few, but fervent. The were these, "I
feel rejoice in the goodness and mercy of God,
and desire to live so as to gain the reward laid
up for the faithful." She endured faithful to the
end, and with her infant son, "rests from her
labors and her works will follow her." She was
married to Elder H. J. Watkins, April 30, 1879,
in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Watkins was an active member of the
Y. L. M. I. A., a faithful worker, and never
wearied in well-doing she filled several official
positions in the Association, as secretary, coun-
selor to the president, &c., the duties of which
she discharged with honor and to the satisfac-
ion of all concerned.
	Sister Mary Ann has gone behind the veil.
We mourn her loss, but we do not sorrow as
those who have no hope. "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," as she did, for her name
is embalmed in the memory of the righteous,
and will live through all generations to come.
	Her mother is President of the Second Ward
Relief Society, in this City. Her father, Elder
John Ellis, is now on a mission preaching the
Gospel in England.—Com.
	Ogden City, February 15, 1882.

	Resolutions of Respect. On the death of Sis-
ter Sarah J. Segmiller. Adopted at a meeting
of the Y. L. M. I. Association, Feb. 27, 1882.
	Whereas God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to
call from our midst our much loved and worthy
President, and,
	Whereas her labors in our Association
have been faithfully performed, we feel
that some proper recognition of her virtues be
had among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, as members of the Y. L.
M. I. A. deeply mourn the loss of so valuable
and faithful a co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we emulate the worthy ex-
amples of her life, which was one of purity, up-
rightness, and diligence in the performance of
her duty.
	Resolved, that we condole with each other in
this bereavement, and tender this token of respect
and love to her relatives and friends in this afflic-
tion.
	Resolved, that our banner be draped in mourn-
ing for thirty days, and that we present a copy
of these resolutions to her relatives and publish
the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and the
Deseret News, and keep a copy of the same on
our record.

	Died at Hyde Park Cache Co., on the 18, of
Feb. 1882, Sister Cecelia Maria Hansen wife of
Peter Hansen, and daughter of Peter and Maria
Thomson, born April 16, 1856, Lendum, Jutland,
Denmark.
	Sister Cecelia has been a good and faithful wo-

[Column 2]
man, true to every principle of the Gospel. She
was a member of the Relief Society and ever
ready to do good, she leaves many friends who
sincerely mourn her loss and sympathize with
her bereaved husband and family.
								J. E. MOLEN.
	Hyde Park Mar. 3rd, 1882.

	Died of old age, Feb. 6, 1882, at the residence
of Mrs. S. M. Heywood, in this city, Sarah Sy-
monds Very, in her 97th year. She was the
widow of Johnathan Very, of Salem, Mass., and
by him had one child, a daughter, who long
since passed away; but she has two grandchil-
dren living in Boston. Deceased was the daugh-
ter of Sarah and William Symonds, and was
born in Salem, Mass., May 19, 1785. Sister
Very was baptized into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Spring of 1842, at Salem, and emi-
grated to Nauvoo the ensuing year; at the time
of the exodus, left Nauvoo in care of Elder J. L.
Heywood. She came to the valley with his
family in 1848, and has ever since resided with
them.
	Sister Very has been for many years unable
to wait upon herself, and Mrs. Heywood and
the children cared for her with all the tender-
ness and devotion it is possible to render to one
we love. She was a woman of great strength of
character and a faithful Saint of God, true to
the principles of the Gospel and firm and stead-
fast in her faith, and has gone to rest in the full
hope of a glorious resurrection. There are many
Eastern people who knew her intimately, and
speak of her with the greatest reverence.
								E. B. W.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Feb. 22, 1882, Sarah
Ann Needham, wife of Elder John Needham.
	Sister Needham was born Dec. 8, 1825, at New-
ton, Lancashire, England, and emigrated to
Nauvoo with the first company of Saints who
left England. She endured the persecutions,
and made a sacrifice of her home, in common
with the people of God, when the Saints were
driven from Nauvoo. Brother and Sister Need-
ham were married in Nauvoo, the ceremony be-
ing performed by Patriarch Hyrum Smith.
Came to Utah with her husband in 1857, where
she raised a family respected by all. She was
First Counselor to the President of the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward from its first organ-
ization, and was an active and respected member
of that Society. She was a dutiful wife, a lov-
ing mother, and a faithful Latter day Saint.

TESTIMONIAL

Of respect and esteem to the memory of our be-
loved sister, Sarah Ann Needham.
	Whereas, It has pleased God, our Heavenly
Father, to release our sister from affliction and
suffering, therefore,
	Resolved, That we, the Sisters of the Relief
Society of the 8th Ward, have lost in her a kind
and affectionate sister and true friend, and that
we sincerely sympathize with her bereaved hus-
band, children, and family.
							E. G. BARNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING CONFERENCE.
 Semi Annual Relief Society Conference of 
S. L. Stake of Zion held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in this City. Friday March,
10th, Mrs. M. I. Horne Presiding.   The morn-
ing was occupied with minutes of previous Con-
ference and reports from the several branches,
and some general instruction from President
Horne.


﻿Afternoon session:  The house was well filled
with sisters, and there were also in attendance
Pres.  A. M. Cannon, his Coun.  J. E.  Taylor,
and Elder Daniel Tyler of Beaver.  The stand
and the organ were draped with white, in honor
of the decease of two most eminent women,
Mrs. E. A. Whitney and Mrs. S, M. Heywood,
and the Relief Society banner was hung over
the stand.  It bears the date of the first organ-
ization in Nauvoo.  The stand and platform
were well filled with officers of the organization
and leading women.
  Sisters M. I. Horne, S. M. Kimball, Zina D.
H. Young, each made brief remarks expressing
their love for the dear departed sisters, and
their appreciation of their pure lives and dili-
gent labors.  Sister Zina also related some in-
cidents of her visit in the East.  Mrs. E.B.
Wells read Resolutions of respect to Mrs. E. A.
Whitney and Mrs. S. M. Heywood.  Mrs. Min-
erva W. Snow, President of Relief Society, St.
George Stake and Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
Relief Society, Summit Stake each made a few
remarks, also Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. Horne
them introduced to the audience Mrs. E. P. W.
Packard who occupied half an hour in speak-
ing upon a bill to establish and protect the
identity of married women, relating some in-
cidents of her personal experience in confirma-
tion of the necessity of such a law.
  Sister Helen Mar Whitney was nominated to
act as Second Counselor to Sister M. I. Horne
in the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, in
place of Sister S. M. Heywood deceased.  The
motion was carried unanimous, and the other
officers of the board by vote of the meeting
were sustained.  Sister Whitney was blest and
set apart Pres. A. M. Cannon officiating assisted
by Coun. Joseph E. Taylor and Elder Daniel
Tyler.  Conference  adjourned  for  three
months.  Singing, and Benediction by Pres.
Cannon.
   The Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms,  Saturday  morning, Feb.
11,ult. Mrs. Ellen C.S. Clawson, presiding, the
attendance was very large indeed many having
to stand during the whole time.
 At intervals during the reading of the re-
ports, the children rendered some hymns in a
very creditable manner.  Remarks were made
by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Mrs. Louio Pelt, and Mrs; Clawson.
 In the afternoon the Conference of the Y.L.
M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary A. B. Freeze
presiding.  After the reading of the minutes
and reports, interesting addresses were deliv-
ered by Mesdames Young, Williams, Conrad,
Horne and Freeze, also Miss Mattie Horne.
Officers of Salt Lake Y. L. M. I. A., were sus-
tained and the Conference adjourned for three
months.
							E. B.  W.


BOTH Senators and six of the eleven Repres
entatives of Congress from Massachusetts are
in favor of suffrage for women.

	NINE of the thirteen Indiana Representatives
in Congress are openly pledged to support wo-
man suffrage.

	THE seventy-fifth anniversary of the birth of
the poet Longfellow was very generally and
heartily commemorated on the 27th of Febru-
ary by the schools throughout the country.

	IN London 700 female clerks are employed
at the central telegraph station at St. Martins-
le-Grand, while at the other metropolitan post
and telegraph offices there are 450 more, mak-
ing a total of nearly 1,200 women employed in
the post and telegraph offices of the metropolis
alone, without counting the large number en-
gaged throughout the country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHAT WITH MY MORMON
		FRIENDS

	Ah. Mrs. Wells how' do? I am very glad in-
deed to see you.  Walk in. I was beginning to
feel a little hurt, thinking you did not intend
to accept my invitation to come to spend the
afternoon.  This is--"Mary F"--Happy to
make your acquaintance.  George Q. Cannon?
Happy to meet you sir.  And this-- Ah,
Hannah T. King?  glad to see you, very glad.
Claim you as a sort of old acquaintance.  All
please be seated, and if you've brought your
knitting, ladies, --ah Mrs. Wells has taken out
her pencil, now I'll have to be careful what I
say. You ask why I take a seeming interest
in the Mormon question.  Well, one has but
to look around to see that there is some great
mistake made somewhere in regard to the mar-
riage relation as it exists now.  Mormonism
presents another side to the question.  I am
not ready to accept the side presented by you,
without close examination  of it in all its bear-
ings; but I am willing to examine, and be-
lieve there are many others to follow me, as
soon as I let down the bars of prejudice and
fear of ridicule.  Felix Adler in his lecture in
Cincinnati Jan. 28th said:  "This abandonment
of ancient theories has a foundation some where.  
Among the influences that are sapping old be-
liefs, is, first, Natural Science.  It is the recog-
nition by the masses of the fact of the existence
of inexorable law from countless ages--an un-
broken chain of causation." Now, as that is
true in a religious sense, so is it true socially.
There is an abandonment of ancient theories
and practices, too, socially.  Something is sapping
old beliefs and I say, 'tis well.
	Mr. Cannon, pardon me, but while you are
here I wish to ask, did you say, as the Gazette
reporter alleges that, "no woman can secure ex-
altation in heaven, unless she be united in mar-
riage to a Latter-day Saint of the Mormon
Church, on earth?"
	I could never believe that; really I think if
any man gets to heaven 'twill be through the
instrumentality of women.  But I never like to
talk on any subject if heaven, future rewards
and punishments are to be brought in.  I am
altogether of the earth, earthy.  My religion
is quickly summed up.  Having believed on
Jesus, confessed Him before men and been
baptized, I have the gospel promise of salva-
tion.  I love the purity of Christ's character
and try to imitate it.  My soul worships the
Creator of this beautiful earth, with its thou-
sand wonders, its singing birds, flowers, bright
skies, and stars, and clouds.  Truly, my soul
sayeth "The Heavens declare the glory of God,
the firmament sheweth his handiwork.  Day
unto day uttereth speech, night unto night
sheweth knowledge."  But of future rewards,
and punishments I concern not myself. Right,
is right wrong is wrong!  I try in all things,
small or great, to do right, and leave my case,
in the hands of a just judge;
	Therefore, just as soon as you convince me
that the Mormon Church practices are right,
that moment I yeild all my prejudices and be-
come one among you.
	Did you say, Mrs. Wells, that "plural mar-
riage does exalt women?  That by making the
sacrafice of her own feelings and giving up her
prejudices for the husband she loves, she en-
nobles herself?"  Well, that is true. Every
one is ennobled by sacrificing his or her own
wishes for the good of others.
	Yes, Mary F. It does seem as though it
were right that when a woman, weakened by
disease or child bearing, her mind entirely
taken up by the care of her family, loses all
inclination to be a wife in the full sense of the
word, she should be willing to act nobly, as did
Sarah of old, and allow another to take the
place she is no longer able to fill.
	Not going, are you, Mr. Cannon?  Good-after-
noon.  You were saying, Mrs. Wells, "When
a woman is no longer able to prepare the food
she gives that duty to a servant." When unable
by ill health or the demands society makes
upon her to prepare the clothing, necessary for
the family, she hires another to do it.  In early
days, to do these duties herself was proof of the
love she bore her husband--to neglect them
was inexcusable.  Do women love their hus-
bands and children less in these days?  No; it
is the abandoning of ancient theories and
practices.  Dr. Pierce says in his "People's
Common Sense Medical Adviser, "Since self
preservation is Nature's first law, the desire for
food is a most powerful instinct in all living
animals.  Not inferior to this law is that for
the prepetuation of race, and for this purpose
throughout the animal and vegetable kingdom,
we find the Biblical statement literally illus-
trated, "Male and female created He them."
	Now, no one would be foolish enough to say
that, because a wife did not prepare the food,
herself for her husband, he should go without;
and no husband will compel his wife to pre-
pare the food for him when she is unable to do
so. Nor will he go without.  But his hunger
and his wife's sickness does not privilege him
to go into his neighbor's house and sit down,
uninvited, to eat.  No man would think of do-
ing such a thing.  Custom regulates such
things.  But N. B. He does not abuse his
physical nature by depriving it of needed food.
	Well, you Mormon women are always ready
to give a reason for the faith you hold and I
must acknowledge you have beaten me this
afternoon.  But I've enjoyed your talk and
hope to spend another pleasant hour together
soon.
	Mrs. Martha Coray is dead.  I felt saddened
by the news for had hoped to meet her in her
own home on earth sometime, but will never
have the pleasure.  I believe she was a good
woman and would say:
		Why do we mourn the dead, departed
		From earth, and all the earthly strife,
		Though Death were a sleep eternal,
		'Twere rest from weary cares of Life.
		And when we know that joys immortal
		Are promised those who pass away,
		Death seems the quiet night, preceding
		The glorious morn of Eternal day.
					EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.

	Second Annual report of the Relief Society
of the Liverpool Branch of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for 1881.
	The year now so near its close, has been
fraught with many important events to our So-
ciety. The experience which we had gained
during the first year of our existence as a society,
we have found very valuable to us, and we are
most happy to have to report, that during the
whole of the past year our Society has been
conducted in the most pleasant and smoothest
manner possible; all has been peaceful, harmoni-
ous, and full of love. The Holy Spirit of God
has been in our midst at all times, and we have
felt the blessed influence of His presence. Our
hearts have been filled with love and gratitude
to our Heavenly Father and we humbly and
gratefully thank Him for his great goodness.
	We had a membership of nine at the beginn-
ing of the year, but four of these have gone to
Zion. But we have filled up their places by
four others. We have held twenty-one meet-
ings during the year, and the attendance of the
members has been very good indeed. We have
been favored on many occasions with visits from
Elder C. W. Stayner, whose loving words and

[Column 2]
wise counsels did much to strengthen us in our
labors. As also we are much indebted to the
kind associations and faithful example of Sister
Stayner from whose lips the sisters have learned
many valuable lessons and received much
strength and encouragement; we realize how
much a faithful sister can do among the Saints
in this country.
	Elder John Donaldson, President of the Liv-
erpool Conference also paid us a visit which
gave us great pleasure his address will long
live in our memories, it has been to us all a
source of very great regret, that his labors away
from the city have prevented his repeating his
visit. Elder Scot Anderson the Branch Presi-
dent was frequently present at our meetings,
and furnished us with valuable information,
and gave us all the encouragement in his power.
The teachers reported 134 visits paid during
the year. And in listening to the reports from
time to time, we deeply feel that we have been
as instruments in the hands of God in assisting
to carry on His work and accomplish His pur-
poses. However fully or imperfectlly we may
have labored, all we have done has not been in
our own name or strength but in firm reliance
upon Him with whom we confidently leave the
result. We commenced the year with a bal-
ance on hand 3 9; during the year we nave re-
ceived 4-9-2; making a total of £1-12-11.
	It seemes marvelous how much good we have
been able to accomplish even with this small
sum every pressing need has been relieved
and we have 7s 6d in the treasury. In conclu-
sion we pray our Eternal Father to continue
His blessings to us and our Society and enable
us with full purpose of heart and firm reliance
upon Him at all times to continue to labor
faithfully in any part of His Vineyard where
our lot may be cast.
				E. H. JOHNSON, President.
				M. J. Anderson, Secretary.

WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Heber City Hall, Feb. 10, 1882.
Commencing at half past 10, o'clock A. M.
President Emma Brown, presiding. Present
on the stand were Bro. T. H. Giles; Bishop
Murdock, and Patriarch Hicken. After the
usual opening exercises, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Pres.
Brown made some intrductory remarks felt
pleased to see so many of the sisters present.
The following wards were then represented.
East Heber by Mrs. Rasband, West Heber by
Mrs. Foreman, Midway by Mrs. Gurney, Cen-
ter by Mrs. Richardson, Charleston by Mrs.
Murdock, Wallsburg by Mrs. Clifton. The
reports were very satisfactory showing a desire
to improve and to carry out the counsel of
those placed over them. The Primaries were
then represented. Wallsburg by Jennie
Allred, Center by Mrs. Harvey, Heber City by
Mrs. Lee. The sisters then occupied the time
giving good counsel, said mothers should set a
good example before their daughters, they
should attend their meetings and be always
ready to respond to every call. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 o'clock P. M. Benediction by
Bro. Rasband.
	Afternoon session: Singing, prayer by Bro.
John Duke, verbal reports were then given by
the Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. They were
given in a very pleasing and instructive man-
ner. Sister Duke then spoke a short time, she
bore a faithful testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God and that the Gospel was
revealed to him, and that we can by obedience
to all its laws and ordinances be brought back
into the presence of our Father. Said the
great men of the nation are determined to over-
throw this people. We are in the hands of the
Lord and so are they; if we are true to our re-
ligion they cannot harm us.


Bro. Hicken; said, "The Lord will take care
of His Saints and it is our business to be saints
in deed and truth, and no harm will come to
his people; urged the sisters to be faithful.
Blessed the Relief Societies with the spirit of
union and peace to comfort the sick and to
labor in love.  Bro. Rasband also gave good
counsel said the Relief Societies were a great
help to the Bishops.  Sister Brown made a few
closing remarks felt happy to have the privil-
ege of assembling with the sisters at our Con-
ference, we will be blessed if we are faithful in
all our duties.  Conference adjourned until
May 1882.  Benediction by John Jordan.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS. M. BRONSON, Asst.

	A meeting of the First Ward Primary As-
sociation of Springville was held February 18,
1882, and had a surprise dinner for the little
folks.  The tables were well filled with delica-
cies.  Seventy-five persons partook of the re-
past, nearly all of whom were children belong-
ing to the Association.  After dinner we had
a chapter from the book "Bible Questions,"
and songs, recitations and our manuscript paper.
	The Bishop, Bro. Kelsey, Bro. Whitehead
and Sister Harrison addressed the children;
said they were well pleased with all they had
seen and heard.  The Bishop said he felt as if
he was in heaven, among the dear little ones.
Sister Bringhurst was present, but business
called her away.  Brother Coray, from Provo,
was also present.
	Benediction by Jesse Groesbeck, son of N.
W. Groesbeck,who is now on a mission to
New Zealand.
	The offiicers of the Association are:  Mary
Crandall, President; Elizabeth Whiting and
Lebina Alleman, Counselors; Melissa Johnson,
Secretary.

			MARRIOTTS.
	The Primary Association convened at the
schoolhouse Jan. 24, 1882, at 11 a.m.  Opened
with the usual exercises.  There were present
visitors from Lynn and Slaterville, also Sis-
ters Stanford and Rudd, from Ogden City, who
are well known to be faithful laborers in the
interests of the P.A, in Weber Co.  The Con-
ference was a very interesting one, the little
ones speaking their pieces and singing their
songs in a very creditable manner.  After the
exercises were over, the sisters from Ogden
addressed the children in a very appropriate
manner, encouraging them to persevere and
listen, and to put in practice the instructions
they received, and they would yet obtain re-
nown in the Kingdom of God; said there had
been something good in all the pieces that had
been spoken, and they felt to bless the chil-
dren, for they felt interested in their welfare.
	Bishop Ritchie then spoke briefly to them;
thought they had done well, and wanted them
to continue to improve and not despair if at
first they did not succeed.  Related an anec-
dote of a little boy in a P. A. Conference; in
speaking his piece, a portion of it went from
his mind; the children commenced to laugh,
but he stood undaunted, and it came back to
him again, and he went through nobly.  Told
them never to laugh if one broke down, but to
help one another and be good, for they were to
grow up to bear off the kingdom.  Others
spoke of the improvement they were making.
The children then sang, "I'll be a little Mor-
mon."  The Conference was adjourned for
three months.  Benediction by Oscar Madsen.
	There were sixty presents given, and the
children were dismissed, while the visitors re-
paired to the house of the President, Sister E.
Marriott, where a sumptuous repast was in
waiting, and after partaking freely of the luxu-
ries the table afforded, and spending a shorttime in agreeable and social conversation, all
dispersed well satified with a day well spent.
		ELLEN M. MARRIOTT, Ass't Sec'y.

			HARRISVILLE.
	Minutes (taken by one of the girls of the
Primary Association) of a pic-nic party held in
the West School House Harrisville Weber Co,
Jan. 28 1882, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.
party called to order by President Harriett
Daybell, prayer by W. C. Rawson, (First Coun-
selor to the Bishop) then a song by four little
girls "Go and seek the little wanderers" then
fifteen recitations and four songs; a few games
then candy was passed around to the children.
Recess for half an hour after which we had
a song by a little girl and then a dialogue
by four boys and five girls;  'The Young
Missionary" from the Juvenile Instructer,
then 17 recitations and seven songs by
boys and girls; then a song from little Jesse
Brown (not yet 3 years old) after which we had
a good scramble on the floor after candy; order
again restored, a song was sung by all the Pri-
mary "Let us all be good and kind" we had a
few more games and then some very good in-
structions from W.C. Rawson, Robert Wilson
and Thomas White.  Our exercises closed with
Benediction by Elder Thomas Brown. Officers:
Harriett Daybell, President; Mary A. Brown,
and Dorathy M. Larkens Counselors; Har-
riett L. Randall Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There are on doubt hundreds still living who
heard the Prophet relate the circumstance men-
tioned in my mother's letter of one of the old
Nephites visiting England, Ireland and Scot-
land, and they can bear their testimony to the
fulfilment of Joseph's predictions on that day,
as well as all the rest up to the present time.
	In another of my mother's letters, speaking
of the signs of the last days which were seen in
various parts of the world she mentions the
following incident, which was seen by different
parties in Nauvoo, and by my request brother
Joseph Kingsbury, a man widely known and
respected for his truth and honesty, wrote the
following account which I here give verbatim.
	"In the Spring of 1840 about eight o'clock in
the morning Mrs. Rhoda Whitney Sister-in-law
to Bishop N. K. Whitney and her brother John
Ballard, my wife Caroline Whitney and myself
were crossing the Mississippi river from Mont
rose to Nauvoo when we saw the following
strange spectacle.
	When we had got about one third of the way
across the river we saw a couple of men about
sixty rods down the stream riding on horse
back on the top of the water. They were go-
ing diagonally down the river in the direction
of Joseph Smith's residence.
	We stopped our skiff and watched these men
until they reached the shore. Just as they ar-
rived at the shore the horses suddenly disap-
peared and the strangers remained on the shore,
the horses trotted along on the top of the water
just as they would have done had they been
trotting through a very shallow stream, gently
splashing the water hither and thither. We
resumed our rowing but our attention was con-
stantly directed towards them as they stood on
the shore until our view was obstructed by a
bend in the river.
					Jos. C. KINGSBURY.
	Near this time some of the worldlings a few
miles below Nauvoo were reported to have seen
upon the river two horses, one black and the
other pale. They with their riders landed in
Missouri.
	The Latter-day Saints had reason to believe

[Column 2]
that great events were near at hand but they
could hardly realize the extent of them. The
Church being then in its infancy they under
stood but very little concerning the plans and
purposes of the Almighty. They thought they
had sacrificed and suffered enough from the
scourgings and oppression of their enemies in
Ohio and Missouri and that they would soon be
gathered back to their homes from which they
had been so cruelly driven. It had not been
revealed to them how great and marvelous a
work the Saints of God were destined to accom-
plish before being prepared to go back to enjoy
their possessions where they were to build up
the centre stake of Zion, which is in Jackson
County, Missouri.
	Most of the inhabitants of that state were
filled with jealousy and hatred which increased
as our prosperity and power increased. Not
long after we settled in Commerce, four brethren
were carried by them into Missouri. One was
a brother Brown, whom they hung until nearly
dead, to force a confession from him, but he
made his escape by leaving his clothes and
wandering three days without food. He
brought word that they had whipped two or
the brethren—one of them nearly to death
when he fainted. They stopped whipping him
until he revived a little, and then they com-
menced whipping him again; but as no confes-
sion could be forced from them, they were com-
mitted to jail for trial.
	Brother James Allred was taken by them
and after having been tied to a tree and threat-
ened for some time, he was told that his grey
hairs would clear him and they set him at
liberty.
	Governer Carlin said he would take the mat-
ter into his hands and would go to the extent
of the law, if it caused a collision of the two
states.
	The following interesting items I copy from
my mother's letter to father, dated Sep. 6th,
1840.
	She says: "The brethren are still moving
in here very fast, several wealthy families ar-
rived last week from Philidelphia. I hope
they will help to build up the place. It is so
sickly here it is almost discouraging, there has
been rising of fifty deaths here within a few
weeks past, the sickness is mostly among those
who have come in this season. Mother Beamen
was buried one week ago to-day. She died of the
cholera morbus—was sick but a few days—
"Seymour Brunson is also dead, everything was
done to save him that could be done, but the
Lord had need of him. A short time before he
died he told Joseph not to hold him any longer
"for" said he, "I have seen David Patten and
he wants me, and the Lord wants me, and I
want to go." They then gave him up; at one
time as Joseph entered the room, he told him
that there was a light encircled him above the
brightness of the Sun—he exclaimed. The
room is full of angels they have come to waft
my spirit home." He then bade his family
and friends farewell and sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus."
	"He requested Joseph to preach his funeral
sermon, which he did. It was attended by
thousands of people. He was buried under
arms. The procession that marched to his
grave was judged to be a mile long. A more
solemn sight I never witnessed, and yet the
day was joyful, because of the light and glory
that Joseph set forth. I can truly say my soul
was lifted up.
	"I enjoy myself as well as I can deprived of
your society. My health is much better than
it was the forepart of the summer. Helen was
attacked very violently with chills last week,
but through the goodness of God she is again
restored. William works at Dr. Williams';
they keep tavern in the house where Brother
Granger lived; have all been sick more or less
all summer. William has also been attacked


once or twice with chills since he lived there.
The Doctor gave him something that broke the
chills. They are very careful of him, and he
has a horse to ride wherever he goes. Brother
Joseph Young volunteered to get up a contri-
bution to get me a cow, and he has bought me
a good one, for which I feel very thankful.
Brother Charles Hubbard gave me a pig last
spring, which I think if fed well will make our
meat for winter. I have plenty of vegetables
and garden sauce, so I shall not have much to
buy but bread. I hope I will not have to call
on the Bishop again while you are gone. I
have no fears about getting along. The Lord
is multiplying my friends daily; yea, I have
more blessings than I am worthy of; I think it
is because I have a worthy husband. I think
much of our English sisters.	*	*	*	I am
glad that Brother Brigham has sent some
assistance to his family, for they are needy
enough. Their house could hardly be called
a shelter; they will soon have it fixed now.
	Elizabeth and Vilate are both sick with
chills and fever; the rest of the families of the
Twelve are well as far as I know. I called on
Sister Young day before yesterday, and carried
a letter that I had just taken from the office;
it was from Brigham, written the last of June.
They were rejoiced to hear from him again.
They were in good spirits, and when they get
their house done they will be quite comfort-
able.
	Our little David is over one year old. I
can brag no more of his little plump body and
rosy cheeks, though his eyes are as black and
sparkling as ever. He has cut four teeth,
which has made him pretty sick; but I pray
the Lord that he may live that you may see
him again.	*	*	* The children join me in
love to their dear father.
	"I had anticipated seeing you this Fall, but
if it is the Lord's will for you to stay longer,
His will and not mine be done. President
Smith says I must always remember him to
you."
	I have sketched these ew incidents to show
how the Lord will bless and provide for those
who are willing to serve Him; who can say like
the Psalmist, "Blessed is the people that know
the joyful sound, they shall walk, O Lord, in
the light of thy countenance. For the Lord
is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is
our King."

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME FACTS THAT I KNOW.

		IN ANSWER TO MRS. SCOTT.

	If we would be the children of Abraham,
then ought we not to do the works of Abra-
ham?  I believe if it was right in the sight of 
God, in the early ages of the world, for men
to have more than one wife, it is right to-day;
the God we serve is an unchangeable One.
	I ask, who in these last days would ever
have thought of such a thing as a man, under
 he name of religion, having more than one
wife, had not the Lord revealed it to him?
	Now, I have lived for many years in the
order of plural marriage, and to-day I am
thankful to my Father in Heaven that He 
ever gave me a true understanding of that
principle; it has many more advantages than
disadvantages. If we will lay aside our selfish 
feelings, and seek for the Spirit of God to
guide us, it is a light to our path all the day
long.  I would not change my position with
any woman of the world, for I could do so if I 
chose; but I would not forfeit my right to that
marriage relation with my husband for all the
treasures earth can give, for they vanish with
time, and we Mormon women are living for
eternity.  I can say truly that I am happy 
and free in my feelings.  I respect the wives


and children of my husband as much as it is
possible to do.  If jealous feelings arise, which
they will sometimes, we try to overcome them,
instead of yielding to temptation; and our
Heavenly Father helps us with the comforting
influences of His Holy Spirit, and shows us
our duties as wives and mothers, and we try to
do unto others as we would like to have them
do unto us.  We are surrounded with all the
necessary comforts of life, and comfortable
homes; we never have occasion to think that
our husbands are in bad company, or that they
are in company that will bring shame and dis-
grace upon themselves or their families. Then
I ask, what need has the outside world to trou-
ble about us?  We do not need their sympathy
nor their help;  if they will look after their
own welfare, we will look after ours, and we
know the Lord will help us if we will do His 
will and keep His commandments--and plu-
rality of wives is one of them.
	And who is the being that would deprive
me of that liberty of conscience, which my
Father in Heaven has given unto me, and unto
hundreds of my Mormon sisters.  If we would
go hand in hand with the wicked and unrigh-
teous, they would like our society; but we will
not, because we do not want to do so. We
wish to raise our sons and daughters honorable
men and women in the sight of God.  I wish
those honest-hearted ladies who think our lot
is so hard had their freedom to the extent that
we have:  they would not think that we
needed any pity.  There are more of the world
that are against us than there are for us; if
the world has not learned this one fact, it is
time they were beginning to learn it.  We will
not foster in our hearts the mammon of un-
righteousness.  The wicked may rage, and the
people may imagine vain things against us, but
our trust is in the Lord of Hosts.
					SARAH B. LAYTON. 
	Kaysville.


AT the regular monthly meeting of the Wo-
man's Suffrage Association of Missouri, at Pick-
wick Theatre, St. Louis, Rabbi Sonneschien
spoke earnestly in favor of the retention of the
franchise by the women of Utah.
	AN unsuccessful attempt was made upon the
life of Queen Victoria on Thursday March 2nd,
by a pistol fired at her as she was descending
from a train at Windsor station near Windsor
Castle.  This is the seventh time she has nar-
rowly escaped assassination.
	CHARLES DICKENS, JR, son of the great
novelist, is unromantic and practical enough to
devote himself to the more lucrative forms of
publishing, such as guide-books.  He has just 
issued the "Continental A B C Railway Guide"
for the use of English and American travelers.
	IN the House the Speaker announced a select
committee on woman suffrage as follows, Camp,
Shermin, Stone, Hepburn, Springer, Vance,
Muldron and Shackleford.  The motion was
previously carried in the House the votes stand-
ing 113 to 85.
	THE discovery of silk is attributed to one of
the wives of the emperor of China, Hoang-ti,
who resigned about two thousand years before
the Christian era; and since that time a special
spot has been allotted in the gardens of the
Chinese royal palace to the cultivation of the
mulberry tree and to the keeping of silkworms.


AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
				S. P. TEASDEL

		DR. A. B. DUNFORD
			DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: — MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
			P. O. X, 5

			Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

				THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
		BEST SELECTED STOCK of
		BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
			Children's Fine Shoes,
	obeln the West. 	Your orders are Solicited
			GEO. DUNFORD

		FOR SALE
	Home-Made SILK,
			AT
CUTLER'S COMMISION STORE.

		A LARGE STOCK
   Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
			MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 &126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.

				DAVID JAMES,
	TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

				   H. DINWOODEY
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
					FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
						AND
				BABY CARRIAGES
			75, 77, &79, First South Street,
				SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
