VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1882	No.24.


"THE LORD GOD OMNIPOTENT
REIGNETH"

A SONG DEDICATED TO PRES. JOHN TAYLOR.

The day of redemption, so near is at hand—
	We can sing in despite of oppression;
But never, to meet e'en a nation's demand
	Will we feign either fear, or depression;
The foes of our faith, like the billows, may foam
	"But a rest for the Saints yet remaineth,"
So we'll sing and rejoice in our own mountain home,
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

Proscribed, for opinion, in liberty’s land—
	Face we bondage, misrule and disaster;
Yet e'en unto death, by the truth may we stand,
	And be leal to our Lord and our Master.
But sooner the ocean may quieted be,
	And sooner may mortals enchain it,
Than souls can be fettered, whom truth maketh free,
	While "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

The heralds of truth yet shall compass the earth;
	And gather "the wheat" to the garner;
The honest will welcome the tidings of worth
	Undismay'd by the wrath of the scorner.
The law of Jehovah we needs must fulfill,
	We cannot reject or disdain it:
'Tis "the hour of his judgment," and scoffers will feel
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

"From the wise and the prudent," the haughty and high
	The loftiest truths are oft hidden;
To "the feast of the Bridegroom" whose coming is nigh,
	The halt, and the humble are bidden,
Through obedience, the Lord doth a witness bestow;
	Who e'er thus desireth, obtaineth;
And thus do his people assuredly know
	That "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

Shall we barter our souls for a nation's applause,
	That denies us fair representation?
Are we traitors? Nay, verily, just is our cause;
	'Twill survive e'en unjust legislation.
The faith of the Saints shall astonish the world,
	And puzzle the wise to explain it;
Hosanna! hosanna! Truth's flag is unfurled;
	And "the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth."

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, May 1st, 1882.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

	It is a pleasant duty to review the lives of
those who have ever nobly borne their part, in
the great battle of life,and record a few of the
most noteworthy incidents connected with their
history, It is but just to publish concerning
those who have been foremost workers in some
good undertaking; who have proudly dis-
tinguished themselves, and achieved good for
their race; it is but just I say, to publish these
facts, for the benefit of others; that after gen-
erations may know what eminent examples
have been furnished them, and by whom.
	The history of this Church, when it is fully
written, will contain much in relation to wo-
man's work,and it is well that our readers should
know who some of these illustrious women are,
who were their antcedents, and what they have
done.
	The lady whose name is prefixed above, is
well known to most of our people. At the
present time she holds prominent public posi-
tions, and has for some years past been actively
engaged a great portion of the time doing pub-
lic duty. Let us go back to her origin and
early life and see how she came to be endowed

[Column 2]
with such strength of character. Mrs. Horne
says,
	"I was born on the 20th day of November,
1818, in the town of Rainham, County of Kent,
England. I am the daughter of Stephen and
Mary Ann Hales, and the eldest daughter of a
large family. My parents were honest, indus-
trious people. I was taught to pray when very
young, to be honest and truthful, to be kind to
my associates, and to do good to all around
us.
	"My early years were spent in attending
school, and in assisting my mother in domestic
duties.
	I took great delight in my studies at school,
when I could be spared from my duties at
home. I improved every opportunity that I
could get in gleaning knowledge."
	Sister Horne as a child, was industrious dili-
gent, persevering and exemplary. The same
characteristics that have developed into such
sublime strength and made her so self-reliant,
and helpful to others,were apparent in her child
hood, and no doubt she inherited many of these
noble traits of character from a long line of
ancestry. Her father was a Methodist, and her
mother a member of the Church of England.
Mrs. Horne as a child had strong religious tend-
encies, and consequently clung more to the faith
of her father, in which there was more of the
spiritual and less of ceremonious form, than in
the Church of which her mother was a member.
Mrs. Horne was in childhood a regular attend-
ant at Sunday School,to which she was specially
attached, as it not only was another source of
gaining intelligence, but fed and fostered the
growth of her spiritual inclinations. When re-
quested by her Sabbath School teacher to com-
mit to memory, two or three verses from the
Bible, she would learn a whole chapter or per-
haps two, and recite without being prompted.
In this way she became familiar with the
Scriptures, and her young mind thus impressed
with beautiful truths from the words of our
Savior, prophets and apostles, she was well
prepared to receive in due time, the Gospel of
the new and last dispensation. When only in
her eleventh year,she became so fascinated with
the Bible, that her leisure hours after the la-
bors of the day were over, were employed in
reading and studying the history and incidents,
the sublime parables and teachings contained
in that sacred work.
	In 1832 Mrs. Horne's parents decided to
emigrate, and after considering Van Dieman's
land somewhat favorably, finally concluded to
go to Upper Canada. They sailed from Eng-
land on the 16th of April. The family con-
sisted of Mr. and Mrs. Hales, five sons and two
daughters, Mary Isabella (now Mrs. Horne)
being the eldest of the two. The sea voyage
was tedious; the mother was sick during the
entire voyage, and one little boy died upon the
way, and was consigned to a watery grave.
The ship anchored at Quebec, and after perils
by sea, storms and dangers, the Hales arrived
in York on the 16th day of June 1832, stran-
gers in a strange land; and there they found that
dread disease, the cholera, making fearful rav-
ages; but the Lord preserved them all in health.
The following Spring, 1833, the family removed
to the country, about eight miles from York.
Mrs. Hales' health was delicate and conse-
quently the care of the large family devolved
upon Mary Isabella, though only fifteen years
of age, but she was quite equal to the man-
agement of household affairs, and scrupulously

[Column 3]
conscientious in regard to her duty in honor
and obedience to her parents.
	In the Spring of 1834, she attended a Meth-
odist Camp-meeting in the neighborhood, where
she first met Mr. Joseph Horne, and subse-
quently became intimately acquainted, the
friendship ripening into love, and two years
afterwards Joseph Horne and Mary Isabella
Hales, were united in marriage on the 9th day
of May, 1836. The young husband owned a
farm and there the young couple took up their
abode in a house of their own, with everything
around them comfortable, and the feeling that
they had settled down for life.

To be Continued.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Before closing the correspondence between
my parents during their separation in 1839 and
40, I will copy a few extracts from another
of my mother's letters to father.
	She writes: "I must tell you a little more
about our English sisters. One week ago
yesterday a number of them came to see me.
I will mention their names, Sister Pool, Sister
Ware, Sisters Margaret and Lydia Moon, and
Susannah Moon. I must say I never enjoyed
a visit better. They seemed as glad to see me
as though we had always been acquainted.
When they first came in, after shaking hands
with me, the next object that caught their eyes
was our little David, "Ah!" said they, "there
is Heber, see his eyes." They then went to the
bed to lay off their things, and there beheld
your portrait, and such another ado I never
heard. "Oh!" said they, "it is so like him,"
and then they wept like children, and all said
I must give their best love to you. All of the
English Saints, that I have seen seem to be
contented and happy; but I am told that some
of them murmur very much, especially the
B——s, I expect they have got too much money
to be happy here.
	"Brother Lyman Johnson, called the day
that the sisters were here, and had quite a chat
with them. They all sang so beautifully that
it was quite a paradise. One of their songs
was for you to come to Zion instead of to Eng-
land. Sister Moon says that I must expect to
have my house full for a time after you come
home. Please give my love to Elders Wood-
ruff and Smith, and tell them I thank them for
the few lines they wrote me. Tell Brother
Woodruff his wife left here in company with
two of her brothers, about a week before Elder
Turley arrived. She proposes visiting her
parents in the State of Maine, and remain un-
til her husband returns from Europe. You
can inform him, that the things sent to his
wife all came safe, and I have them in my care
agreeable to her request.	* * * The child-
ren are impatient to have you come home; you
are losing all of the most interesting part of
little David's life. A child is never so pretty
and interesting as when they first begin to
walk and talk. He is now well and goes prat-
tling about the house, and you may be assured
we all think him very cunning. He is called
Heber altogether by the neighbors. Every
one says that ought to be his name. Brother
Charles C. Rich says, "if he lives he will look
as much like you as Seth did like Adam—who


[Column 1]

could only be distinguished by their eyes.
Brother Rich and wife send much love to you,
also Brother Hubbard and wife, and family,
and all of the neighbors. Sisters Sarah Milli-
can and Louisa Beamen, were here yesterday
and wished to be remembered to you and breth-
ren, also Sisters Laura and Abigail Pitkin,
they are faithful to pray for you. They say
you promised if they would be, they should be
partakers of your blessings. Please give my
love to all your quorum and all the Saints who
enquire after me. We are all well except
William, who has just got his ankle bruised
with a wagon running over it; but I think the
bone is not hurt. Your Journal is now in
press. Now farewell my dear Heber, and may
the Lord bless and comfort your heart in Christ
is the prayer of your unworthy companion,"
		VILATE KIMBALL.
	The Journal which my mother mentioned as
being in press,is now at the Juvenile Instructor
Office, where I have lately sent it, and it may
be in the press, which is quite a coincidence be-
ing about forty years from the time that it was
first published in Nauvoo and this was an old
number found among my father's papers.
	The following interesting incident was re-
lated to me by Brother Charles W. Hubbard
who stayed with us a portion of the time during
our late Conference. As is well known Presi-
dent Young was very sick when he crossed the
Mississippi River, and was brought by a brother
to the house of Heber C. Kimball, the day be-
fore they started upon their mission to Europe.
My father was also sick with the same disease
(ague) but after the fever went off he climbed
upon his house and was trying to finish the
roof when his brother missionary (Brigham
Young) came out to walk a little to try his
strength, but in the effort fainted and fell to
the ground. Father not having strength to
lift him, called to brother Charles W. Hub-
bard, who lived just across the river, to come
and assist him in bringing President Young in-
to the house; where, after placing him upon
the bed, they administered to him and again
he recovered. Bro. Hubbard said that father
followed him to the door, as he started for
home, and said, "Charley I doubt very much if
Brigham ever rises from that bed;" but had
no sooner uttered the words, than he spoke up
as with another voice and said, "He shall live
and start upon his mission with me tomorrow
morning;" and sure enough they did start the
next morning, as (I think) no other missionar-
ies ever did, and they performed the work for
which they were sent, as the following from the
Prophet Joseph's History will show.
	"All the quorum of the Twelve Apostles
who were expected here this season, with the
exception of Willard Richards and Wilford
Woodruff, have arrived.
	"We have listened to the accounts which
they give of their success, and prosperity of the
work of the Lord in Great Britain, with pleas-
ure. They certainly have been instruments in
the hands of God, of accomplishing much, and
must have the satisfaction of knowing that
they have done their duty. Perhaps no men
over undertook such an important mission un-
der such peculiarly distressing, forbidding and
unpropitious circumstances. Most of them,
when they left this place, nearly two years ago,
were worn down with sickness and disease, or
were taken sick on the road. Several of their
families were also afflicted, and needed their
aid and support. But knowing that they had
been called by the God of heaven, to preach
the Gospel to other nations, they conferred not
with flesh and blood, but obedient to the heav-
enly mandate, without purse or scrip, com-
menced a journey of five thousand miles en-
tirely dependent on the providence of that God
who had called them to such a holy calling.
	"While journeying to the seaboard, they
were brought into many trying circumstances. 

[Column 2]

After a short recovery from severe sickness
they would be taken with a relapse, and have
to stop among strangers, without money and
without friends. Their lives were several times
despaired of, and they have taken each other
by the hand, expecting it was the last time
they should behold one another in the flesh.
	Notwithstanding their afflictions and trials,
the Lord always interposed in their behalf, and
did not suffer them to sink into the arms of
death. Some way or other was made for their
escape; friends rose up when they most needed
them, and relieved their necessities, and thus
they were enabled to pursue their journey and
rejoice in the holy one of Israel. They truly
went forth weeping, bearing precious seed, but
have returned rejoicing bearing their sheaves
with them."
	What, but religion could have prompted the
Apostles and Elders of this Church, to leave
their homes, wives, children and every earthly
tie, taking their lives in their hands, as they
did, to go forth into the world without purse or
scrip, which they have done from the beginning
until the present time? The Elders of this
Church have never preached for hire, no nor
have the poor, whom they have converted and
gathered to Zion, ever been shut out from the
congregations, because they were unable for-
sooth, to pay for a pew, or to make a display, of
the latest and richest styles of dress and bon-
nets etc.; but the rich and poor have fared
alike; though many, because of prosperity,
have become lifted up in the pride of their
hearts, and seem to have forgotten the Hand
that led them forth from the darkness, ignor-
ance and bondage, in which they were held in
their native lands, making them a free and
happy people, and have sought with far greater
energy for the wealth and honors of the world,
than for the love of the Father who giveth or
taketh away, as seemeth Him good. But they
are not the ones who will come up in remem-
brance before Him, for He says "Blessed are ye
poor for yours is the kingdom of God." "But
wo unto you that are rich for ye have received
your consolation."
	We read that our Savior was lowly, unedu-
cated, and much poorer in worldly circum-
stances, than was Joseph Smith the Prophet,
and his friends and associates (according to
history) were also of a poorer class, simple in
their ways and habits, and if He "had to sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things," then how can any one else expect to
be exalted or to dwell with Him in the
eternal worlds, unless they are willing to fol-
low in his footsteps; to be humbled, chastened,
scourged and afflicted, and endure all things?
For He says "I will have a tried people,', and
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth and
scourgeth every one whom he receiveth." The
chaff must be sifted out. The allurements
which are thrown around us are very great and
so dazzle the eye, that unless we keep a faithful
guard over ourselves—holding on to the Iron
Rod, we are in great danger of being swallowed
up, in the same whirlpool where so many have
been lost; "Selling their birthright for a mess
of pottage," and would have sunk to rise no
more.
	Those who have not the knowledge and as-
surance that the course which they are pursuing
is according to the will of God, cannot endure
all these afflictions and persecutions, taking
joyfully the spoiling of their goods and even if
necessary to suffer death, by the hands of their
foes. They will grow weary and faint and fall
by the way unless they have unshaken con-
fidence and a perfect knowledge for themselves.
They cannot make a sacrifice of their character
and reputation; and give up their houses, their
lands, brothers, sisters, wives and children;
counting all things as dross, when compared
with the eternal life and exaltation, which
our Savior has promised to the obedient; and

[Column 3]

this knowledge is not obtained without a strug-
gle nor the glory without a sacrifice of all
earthly things. In the last days (we read) the
Lord is to gather together his Saints who
have made covenant with Him by sacrifice and
each one must know that their sacrifice is ac-
cepted as did righteous, Abel and Abraham
the Father of the faithful. Every Latter-day
Saint knows this to be true, and that ac-
cording to our faith so are our blessings and
privileges.
	Anciently, we read, that nothing was with-
held from the ones whose faith was sufficient
to receive it. The mouths of the lions were
stopped, and the violence of fire quenched, they
were valiant in fight, and escaped the edge of
the sword, and put to flight the armies of the
aliens. Women, by their faith, recieved their
dead children to life again, and obtained heav-
enly visions, the ministry of angels, and some
became familiar with the third heavens, saw
and heard things which were unutterable, and
unlawful to utter. Many of the Saints can
testify that they have witnessed just as power-
ful miraculous manifestations, as did the an-
cient women of Scripture, so have many of the
"Mormon" women obtained heavenly visions,
their sick have been healed and even the dead
raised to life again.
	A grand and glorious work is this which the
Lord has set his hand for the last time to per-
form, and how vain and worthless is the wealth
and pomp of this lower world, when compared
with the great exaltation and glorious riches of
eternity which will endure forever; and how
small and insignificant does it make the works
of man appear to Saints of God, who are awake
and have in weakness girded on the armor of
truth and righteousness, and now stand firm
upon the watch tower waiting to witness the
Grand Tableau, yea, the closing, the winding
up scene of the Almighty King of Kings, and
Lord of Lords who has ever been our friend
and advocate and his spirit still whispers to
his Saints, Fear not for as the poet said:

	"I have beheld my love and mercy scorned;
	Have seen my laws despised, my name blasphemed,
	My providence accused, my gracious plans
	Opposed; and long, too long, have I beheld
	The wicked triumph, and my saints reproached
	Maliciously, while on my altars lie,
	Unansered still, their prayers and their tears,
	Which seek my coming, wearied with delay:
	And long disorder in my moral reign
	Has walked rebelliously, disturbed the peace,
	Of my eternal government, and wrought,
	Confusion spreading far and wide among
	My works inferior, which groan to be
	Released."
		—Pollock's Course of Time.
To be continued.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CAPTIVE HEART.

My heart was like a caged bird,
	That slipped its prison bars one day;
And thro' the bright empyrean blue,
	From home and friends soared far away.

While skimming thro' the linden trees
	It stopped to chant a simple lay;
And looking downward saw forsooth,
	One of God's angels pass that way.

A form so fair of heavenly mold,
	Moving along with dainty grace.
That e'en the earth-flowers crowd her path,
	They rare had seen so sweet a face.

The bird its heavenward course forgot,
	And quickly back to earth it flew;
Into that bosom nestling crept,
	Captive again for love of you.

						ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 1881.


Ralph Waldo Emerson, signed the call for
the first woman's right convention ever held in
Mass. It met at Worcester, Oct. 1850.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


GOOD-BYE, PROUD WORLD.

Good-bye, proud world! I'm going home;
	Thou art not my friend; I am not thine;
Too long through weary crowds I roam;—
	A river ark on the ocean brine;
Too long I am tossed like the driven foam;
But now, proud world, I'm going home!

Good-bye to Flattery's fawning face,
To Grandeur with his wise grimace;
To upstart Wealth's averted eye,
To supple office, low and high;
To crowded halls, to court and street;
To frozen hearts and hasting feet;
To those who go and those who come,
Good-bye, proud world, I'm going home.

I go to seek my own hearth stone,
Bosomed in yon green hills alone;
A secret lodge in a pleasant land,
Whose groves the frolic fairies planned,
Whose arches green the livelong day
Echo the blackbird's roundelay,
And evil men have never trod
A spot that is sacred to thought and God!

Oh, when I am safe in my sylvan home
I mock at the pride of Greece and Rome;
And when I am stretched beneath the pines,
Where the evening star so holy shines,
I laugh at the lore and pride of man,
At the sophist schools, and the learned clan;
For what are they all in their high conceit,
When man in the bush with God may meet?

					RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
"The Watchman."	1882.


[Column 1]

BIBLE DOCTRINE.

	We, as a community, feel thankful for the
good will Mrs. Scott manifests towards us in
asking at the right source whether these things
said of us are true. The Savior said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall hate you," etc. "Rejoice
ye in that day, and leap for joy." St. Luke,
chapter vi. Now we do not wish to be under-
stood by saying, "We mind our own business,"
that we do not wish a candid and thorough
investigation of our principles and of our
motives in the full belief in all good that em-
anates from God our Heavenly Father, which
we have embraced, and accepted for our salva-
tion in this life and hereafter. We thank you for
your noble-mindedness of inquiry, your sus-
pended judgement until convinced by stronger
testimony than by an enemy to the religious
views of our domestic happiness, and our
rights which we, in common with others, claim
in a Christian land. We wish more of our
sisters abroad would come forward, as you
have done, and make it their particular bus-
iness to inquire into all matters pertaining to
us, in relation to the truth, and we shall take
great pleasure in answering questions in a
Christian-like manner. We will talk together,
not for evil, but to bring about good results
and fellowship with the honest and upright in
heart.
	You say you do not believe in Mormon-
ism, perhaps you might believe in the book
called "the Book of Mormon," if you should
read its contents; it is a historical record of
the ancient people of this continent, handed
down by them for many generations. It was
kept and preserved and brought to light by
one of their Prophets. The origin of that
ancient people is a mystery to the world, but if
they would read the "Book of Mormon," it
would be so no longer, but prejudice blinds the
eyes of mortals, and they remain ignorant.
Why is this? Because judgement is passed
without investigation. Now Ann Eliza, the
lecturer, is acting under different motives
altogether from what we are. She acts, writes
and, speaks to put money into the pockets of
her helpers, who are ever on the alert to feed
the public on trash and falsehood to get gain,

[Column 2]

which is a very easy way to live without hard
work. We will lay belief on one side in set-
ting forth our principles, for we have actual
knowledge. Before we received the ordinances
of the Gospel, we believed and were baptized
for the remission of our sins; we had hands
laid upon our heads by men holding the Priest-
hood of the Son of God, by which the Holy
Ghost was conferred upon us, which is the
pattern that was given to the former day Saints.
The Spirit, thus received, brings all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; now if we deny the spirit of revelation
we cannot possess it. This gives us actual
knowledge without a doubt. We receive the
gift of the Gospel. Please read St. Mark, last
chapter, and read the Savior's words, "Go
ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to
every creature." Would it not make thousands
of infidels if this Gospel could be changed to
other forms? We are persecuted because we
believe in its unchangeable laws, "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one jot
or tittle of my word shall fail." Now I can
quote many passages of Scripture to substan-
tiate this, which can be read at leisure:
"Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach
any other doctrine than that we have preaced,
let him be accursed." Peter, when preaching
in Jerusalem, convinced his hearers, and they
said: "What shall we do?" Then Peter said un-
to them, "Repent and be baptized, every one
of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the re-
mission of your sins," etc. The Acts, chapter ii.
Second Epistle of John. "He that abideth in
the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father
and the Son;" also, "There is but one faith,
one Lord and one baptism." Read Revelations,
chapter xiv: "And I saw another angel fly
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation, kindred, tougue
and people." Ever lasting, unchangeable, to be
preached to the inhabitants of the earth for
their salvation and eternal glory. After hav-
ing our minds enlightened by the spirit of di-
vine truth, we cannot be persuaded to relin-
quish our principles or go back into the old
beaten track of ignorance—modern civilization.
Well, our paper is small, and I must draw my
subject to a close, as others will want room to
express their views, as the questions advanced
by Mrs. Scott for our consideration involve
much in thought and research, especially in
relation to rewards and punishment.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April, 25th, 1882.


[Column 1]﻿
MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	Dear Lady: Do not for a moment think
because I have been silent with regard to your
letters in the EXPONENT, that I have felt
apathetic, no indeed. They have been quite
refreshing to me, to find there is, at least, one
mind out in that world we came from, who is
so honest as to say she "does not believe in
Mormonism, neither one half of what is said
against it."  Good my Lady!  again, you "went
to hear Ann Eliza's lecture," and you were
neither amused or edified.  Does she always
read the same words?  How she must weary
people who have any brains, and make use
of them!  it really does not speak loudly to me
in favor of her audiences; thank Heaven I was
not one of them!  for such an audience must
possess a morbid, vitiated taste, that could list-
en to the Parrot talk of such a palmipede Lect-
urer (?) (save the mark)—I have not the least
possible desire to proselyte you, or any other
person, not even my own "Kith and Kin."
My religion is too precious to intrude on "peo-
ple we meet."  I embraced it with an honest
heart, and have done my best to live up to its
precepts and requirements, for the last thirty

[Column 2]
years and have never seen the first moment
that I repented of that grand epoch of my life.
Paul said, he "became a fool for the Gospel's
sake"—and he was an educated man, taught
at the feet of Gamaliel, his sublime address to
King Agrippa testifies of this, after all these
centuries of increased accumulated learning,
that he was an accomplished scholar—yet he
said the words I have quoted.  So I with a de-
cent stock of school education and a far higher
one acquired in my beloved home, my parents
being my preceptors—I, too became a fool
for the Gospel's sake; but let me define this,
—I laid my heart and brain upon the altar
and many of the dogmas of the High Church
of England,in which I was raised and educated,
vacated my cushioned Pew in the dear old
Church (I mean of course the building) and
attended a Chapel where we sat on benches
beside the poor, the unlearned, the humble,
and the unsophisticated, with of course excep-
tions to all these, for the net was to gather of
every kind.  There we assembled in a happy
congregation of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the
Laws laid down by our Savior literally; entered
by the door at which He had passed thro' be-
fore us, setting an example to all who would
hereafter take the name of Christian.
	I virtually laid my all upon the altar, if
need be—if this and much more constitutes me
"a fool for the Gospel's sake," I willingly
claim the title! but my experience realized to
me that I sprang to a higher degree of intelli-
gence, and have so continued! here Paul and
I appear to differ; but when we meet I have
no doubt we shall see eye to eye, as we both
obeyed the same laws, laid down by the same
Master.  I do not pretend to assert that the
mighty heterogeneous masses of people that
have been gathered into the Church of Jesus
Xt. are all Saints in very deed; that is neither
probable, or possible, but I do know that a
large majority are the honest and pure from
all nations, desiring to know the right way, and
to walk therein.  All this mighty Gospel ed-
ucation you may be sure is not acquired with-
out much labor, trial and it may be suffering.
When a child is sent from home to "Boarding
school," does it not suffer in its feelings and
affections?  Does it not find the lessons hard to
learn?  Oh! sometimes so hard! but it is placed
there in kindness, for its own benefit, and that
it may hereafter be a blessing to all associated
with it; and that it may become useful "in its
day and generation."  The L. D. S., are in
the Lord's school, the highest yet upon the
earth.  Those who enter in ignorance soon be-
come well informed and intelligent, they are
taught true principles, and then they govern
themselves of course; as a natural consequence
the most assiduous, soon become the most
efficient; but stay!—You'll think I'm preach-
ing!
	If you desire to ask me any question, either
through the EXPONENT, or by private letter, I
shall be pleased to answer to the best of my
ability.  Don't trouble your mind about Poly-
gamy (that is not our word) because that it is
now a forbidden thing.  We have now become,
under the iron rod of Priestcraft, in the free Re-
public of America!! When that is settled,
what next?  For that is only the first letter of
the clerical alphabet "they" intend to teach us.
Polygamy is a detestable word to me, coming
out of mouths that speak neither with the
"spirit, nor with the understanding." I have
written as fast as the pen could transcribe my
thoughts and ideas; truth is easily told and
needs no forethought circumlocution—it is a
God-like word—but is almost obsolete in some
places; were it the universal motto, how much
sorrow, and sin, would be wiped from the
earth.
		Your friend,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City May 5th, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time. $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN’S EXPONENT
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, - May 15. 1882.


VOLUME TEN.

	The present number closes the tenth volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. So far it has re-
ceived favorable consideration, but the number
of subscribers is not sufficient as yet to warrant
any change in its publication. We had ardently
hoped to enlarge the paper this year, but in view
of the peculiar circumstances of this people at
the present time, we think it wisdom to continue
for this year without making any change
whatever. If the sisters could but realize the
importance of the paper, the great good it is cer-
tainly doing, of the representation it gives the
women of this people abroad, and the real, one
might almost say desperate need, there is of
their representing themselves instead of being
represented by those who do not and cannot
possibly understand the motives by which they
are actuated, there would soon be a sufficient
number of subscriptions, and the paper might
be issued weekly or enlarged. We call upon all
Latter-day Saint women to consider this subject
carefully and use their influence to obtain sub-
scriptions for the paper, so as to make it not only
possible, but easy to have the paper either en-
larged or issued weekly. Had we double the
number we have, it could be done. Trusting ere
long to see our list largely increased so as to meet
the wishes and needs of the people in this re-
spect, we thank the many friends of the EXPO-
NENT, for their patronage and hope to make
the paper more and more, interesting and a still
better help to the women of Utah, in the future
than it has been in the past.


ELECTION DAY.

	Let no person forget the election on Monday,
the 23rd of May. This people should show their
strength in the vote cast for the Constitution of
the proposed State. The Lord has in many in-
stances blest in a visible manner the efforts
made by this people to obtain justice, even
though the rulers of the nation refused and re-
jected their intercessions with scorn. It may be
so now. "Our cause is just," and the event is
in the hands of One, who doeth all things
well.


[Column 1]

THE TIMES ARE OUT OF JOINT.

	The sentiment expressed by Shakespeare
which is quoted above, is certainly applicable to
the present time. There is abundant evidence
of this to every reflective mind. The daily pa-
pers are filled with accounts of crimes, accidents,
death and disaster sickening to read; and one
cannot help longing for relief from these horrors
of every day occurrence. Where is the union
of purpose for the good of mankind, and the
security of life and liberty in the strength of
kingdoms and nations, that ought to character-
ize this age of boasted civilization, this enlight-
ened, highly cultured nineteenth century?

[Column 2]

	The record of the past year was filled, one
might say, with calamities. The assassination of
the Czar, and the foul murder of Pros. Garfield,
would indeed indicate that a spirit of lawlessness
and bloodshed was abroad in the world, that
made even kings and rulers stand in awe in
view of the dreadful evils that might in a mo-
ment overtake them. In the present year the
same spirit seems raging in the hearts of the
wicked urging them on to evil deeds. The at-
tempted assassination of Queen Victoria took
everybody by surprise; so good and noble a
Queen has seldom lived, and hard hearted in-
deed must be the villain who could pollute his
hands with the innocent blood of royalty. Fol-
lowing close upon that foul deed two faithful
administrators of Her Majesty's laws are mur-
dered in cold blood when sent to concilliate a
part of her people whose welfare and happiness
she desired to promote. Alas, poor unfortunate
Ireland, for there indeed "the times are out of
joint."
	How is it with our own beloved country "the
land of the free and the home of the brave."
Witness the controversy of the Congress of the
United States, on some most important matters
under consideration during the present session of
that honorable body. The legislation concerning
Utah, is only one of these, but the persecution
of a people because of their religion, in a land of
free thought and "the birthplace of free religious
liberty" plainly proves "the times are out of
joint."
	Have the great men of the nation left God
out of their Councils? If so, then indeed may
they fear and tremble. One can but think they
have, when they seek to oppress and break down
a handful of people who had sought refuge from
their cruel oppressors in the fastnesses of the
Mountains; where they had peopled the desert
and made it habitable for men, and only asked
the protection of the God of heaven, and the re-
cognition by the nation, of their rights as citiz-
ens, to which thousands of them were entitled
by birth, and all by the right of that honest
toil, that untiring industry which made the bar-
ren land fruitful, and its cities fair to look upon;
only the rights guaranteed to every man to man-
tain his manhood, these are the heritage of a
free-born people.

	Men who their duties know,
But know their rights, and, knowing dare maintain.

	How can Congress consistently with the spirit
of liberty, compel a people to renounce the prac-
tise of any principle of their religion? This is
indeed a paradox. It may be asserted that mar-
riage is no part of religion, but would not that
be a contradiction of all established precedents?
Do not all religious denominations marry accord-
ing to their own peculiar forms, or ceremonies,
and do they not make use of such words as seem
to them the most appropriate in performing this
sacred ordinance. Assuredly they do, and ever
have done. If the Edmund's bill should be en-
forced as it is understood by those who framed
it, then indeed will "the times be out of joint"
in Utah, where now life and property are most
secure, and where God's laws are held pre-em-
inent. The plans of wicked men to restrain and
curtail the liberties of a free people yea, even to
enslave them will be a vexation to this nation
for all time to come; their Councils will be con-
fused and their deliberations brought to naught.
They have sewn the wind they will reap the
whirlwind! Lying spirits have gone abroad over
the face of the earth, seeking whom they may
deceive, and they will deceive many, and it be-
hooves every person to know whether he is on
the Lord's side, and "hold fast to the iron rod,
which is the Word of God," that he may find
safety and deliverance in every time of need.

[Column 3]

	The Latter-day Saints should never swerve
one jot or tittle from the path of duty, but strive
earnestly to keep the faith. This claim is im-
perative. God has instituted a reform in the
earth, a plan of salvation which is higher, broad-
er, grander, deeper and reaches farther into the
future than any institution which man could
suggest. And even though the "times are out of
joint," there is One who can be safely relied upon
to set all things right. The great Physician,
the Healer will in his own due time, and in the
season thereof, restore all things to their proper
places, and his kingdom will be established
never to be thrown down, and righteousness will
be his sceptre.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Eighth Ward Relief Society met according
to appointment, for reorganization, May 7th,
1882, at the meeting house. Present, Bishop
Sheets, Counselors McMurrin, and Brockbank,
and Sister M. I. Horne. Opened by singing and
prayer minutes read and accepted. Resolu-
tions of respect of our late President and Coun-
selor, were read and adopted. The Bishop then
made some remarks, and nominated the officers.
Sister Esther B. Fletcher, President; Catherine
Palmer, First Counselor; Jane Cowen Second
Counselor; Sarah Hawkins, Secretary; Jenette-
McMurrin Assistant Secretary; Ruth Ensign
Treasurer; Annie Cross, Prosiding Teacher.
Sister Horne gave us good instructions. Meet-
ing adiourned. The Bishop invited the sisters
to his home to dinner, we had a very enjoyable
 time with his family.	E. B. FLETCHER.


THOUGHTS AWAKENED BY CAMEO.
	Cameos have ever been great favorites of
mine! and I wore one of the immortal Shaks-
pere for many years daily, till it became as it
were an Amulet, but one unfortunate day I lost
my Cameo!
	I have seen some beautiful devices in Cameo.
One especially, I so well remember, it bore with
exquisite distinctness the thirteen personages,
composing “the last supper.” The centre figure
was of course, the Savior,—“the beloved Apos-
tle” on his right hand, and the remaning eleven
around the table. If I ever craved a jewel, it 
was the most exquisite one; but its price was
fifty guineas, and I had to return it into the
kind hands that had brought it for my inspec-
tion, knowing it would be the gem of my heart;
every feature was distinct, and even the ex-
pression of each face, vividly portrayed. But
the “Cameo,” that has struck many chords in
my heart, at the present moments in the Nom
de plume of the writer of the brief, but most in-
teresting article in the last issue of the EXPON-
ENT, headed “Spencer's Letters” The very
name brings before my mind such a crowd of
complicated reminiscences, that I find it difficult
to make any tangible. Were I to live to the age
of Methusalah, I could never forget the complex
feelings that thrilled through my whole system
as I took that little volume into my hands. I
had had the Latter-day work verbally laid before
me, and I had felt the truth of some of its prin-
ciples, for I could read them in the New Testa-
ment, but I had seen no book, or printed matter
of any sort regarding it. I was requested to 
read "Spencer's Letters," as a book that would
please, and more convince me; but I hesitated,
I feared it would "lead me to convictions I would
shun,” therefore I rather declined, but still was
not sa[-]isfied; at last I consented that it should
be purchased and sent to me. It came! I took it
into my hands, not attempting to open it, hold-
ing it with a species of awe, having an indistinct


idea, that, that book in some unaccountable
way, contained my destiny! I held it as by a spell,
wondering what I should do with it. At last
my mind arrived at a focus, I quietly went to
my own room, shut, and locked the door, went to
the spot where I was accustomed to offer up my
daily and nightly orisons, laid the book upon
the bed knelt down before it, and asked my
Father in Heaven, if that book contained Truth
that I might embrace—if error, that I might
reject it wholly and entirely. Of course my pray-
er contained more than this—but my memory
retains only these two sections.
	I arose, and again took the book into my
hands, and sat down by my bedside, my whole
system in a thrill of sacred awe. If I did not
fully realize that it was the most sacred, the
most important moment of my life, and that I
feel sure that angels were around, and sustaining
me, I could smile at the slow, and mysterious
way in which I so gently opened that little
book, and peered into its first words. At last I
had it wide open. I ventured to read its first
letter; I breathed freely once again. I felt as-
sured that the writer was a servant of the living
God! that he was a noble man—a gentleman—
one whose teachings bore the impress of him,
under whom he served, and worshiped, and
wrote, and thought. Every letter I read, I was
the more convinced, the more satisfied. All he
said was so conclusive; I thought all was told:
and when through I turned to the fly leaf, and
enthusiastically wrote upon it, "My Own, My
Own!" Those words stand there to-day; and to
day I endorse them.
	The annotations and reflections of Cameo, on
these letters are truthful, just, and appreciative;
and I joyfully endorse every one of them; for
they contain the language of my own heart.
And from the moment I read those letters I
became a Latter-day Saint. "Yesterday, to-day
and forever."		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 9th 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AT REST.

	DIED on Sunday morning April 23, 1882 at
his home in the Museum building in this city,
Joseph L. Barfoot, aged 66 years. Brother Bar-
foot was born March 29, 1816, in the Fortress of
Warwick Castle, Warwick, England. He was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, in February 1856, and was an
active missionary during the remainder of his
residence in London; where he had labored pre-
viously in what was known as the "London City
Mission," according to the best light and
knowledge he had before receiving the new and
everlasting Gospel. He came to Utah in 1865,
and has ever since resided in this City. For
some years past he has occupied the position of
curator at the Museum, which he was most ad-
mirably qualified to fill. His genial and unas-
suming manner combined with his extensive
knowledge of natural curiosities, and minerals of
all kinds, as also of antiquities, rendered him cap-
able of imparting information in such a way as
to please and edify all who called upon him.
He was a man of uncommon talents and ac-
quirements. He had dived deep into the re-
cesses of science and stored his mind well with
the treasures he had found in his careful search
through the winding ways so few ever attempt
to travel. His happy adaptation of subjects gave
him the faculty of harmonizing science with re-
ligion—which is not usual with men of great
scientific attainments.
	He was undoubtedly the most learned man in
Utah, and indeed there are but few in the world
who possess such a vast mine of precious treas-
ures, and are capable of utilizing them for the
public good. Brother Barfoot was also gener-

[Column 2]

ously endowed with love for his fellow men, was
a philanthropist in the true sense of the word:
It was the great desire of his life to do good to
mankind.
	Prof. Barfoot was royally descended, on his
father's side from Robert Bruce, King of Scot-
land, and was heir to the Earldom of Crawford.
But worldly titles were nothing to him, his am-
bition was to secure an imperishable crown,
which he sought diligently and faithfully to ob-
tain. His mother was Sophia Louisa Ridley
directly descended from Bishop Ridley, who suf-
fered martyrdom at Smithfield, England; and
from his mother he inherited his strong religious
tendencies and unswerving faith in God. This
great good and learned man was as humble as a
child, gentle, modest and yet noble, high-
minded, liberal and charitable to all. One may
safely say he was indeed a Christian whose life
and example are well worthy imitation.
	The funeral of Prof. Barfoot, was held in the
21st, Ward meeting house, where some of those
who loved and respected this good man, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect, to
him who has gone to rest from his earthly
labors. Wreaths and bouquets of flowers were
laid upon his coffin, by loving hands; and all
present felt to endorse the many beautiful testi-
monies given of this worthy brother. Appropri-
ate hymns were well rendered by the ward choir,
prayer was offered by Br. Tuddenham, and brief
addresses were delivered by Elders George Rey-
nolds, Junius F. Wells, John Tuddenham, H.
W. Naisbett, John Nicholson, H. Foulger,
Bishop Thomas Taylor, and Elder George By-
water. Benediction by Elder Joseph E. Taylor.
	Much might be said and written of this wise
and venerable man, that would be a blessing
to the young people in this day, as well as
interesting to all. Bro. Barfoot has been for
years a regular contributor, to the Juvenile In-
structor, has writen considerably for the Des-
eret News and other papers and Magazines and
occasionally for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in
which he was much interested as he entertained
the most liberal views upon all questions re-
lating to the elevation and advancement of
woman.
	May Our Heavenly Father bless his family and
sanctify this bereavement to their good; and in
the morning of the first resurrection may they
be united again that his happiness may be com-
plete, is the wish of one who cherished for him
not only a great admiration of his high attain-
ments, but a sincere affection and many pleasant
recollections of his intelligent conversation.
	E. B, W.


IN MEMORY OF.

	Died in Provo City, on Monday Evening April
17, 1882, of Diphtheria, Roy Daniels, son of
Aaron and Caroline Daniels, aged 9 years.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	On the Death of Roy Daniels, Eliza Gledhill,
Mariah Tanner and Lilly Phillips, who died of
that dreadful disease, diphtheria. Adopted at a 
meeting of the Primary Association of the 4th,
Ward, Provo City April, 22nd 1882.
	Whereas God in his allwise Providence has
seen fit in the last year to call from our midst,
our much loved little friends and playmates.
	Whereas their labors in our Association have
been faithfully performed. We feel that some
proper recognition of their virtues be had among
us; and,
	Therefore, be it resolved that we as members
of the Primary Association deeply mourn the
loss of our little friends, and
	Resolved that we emulate and follow their


examples of purity and faithfulness in the per-
formance of all duty; and
	Resolved that we condole with each other in
our bereavement, and tender a token of respect
and love to their relatives and friends in their
affliction; and,
	Resolved that we present a copy of these res-
olutions to their relatives and publish the same
in the Provo Enquirer, also the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and place a copy on our record.
	Friends will mourn, but this bereveament
		They’ll endure;
	Knowing that their precious darlings
		Are secure. 
	Like rosebuds yet unopened.
		They shall bloom,
	Where no blight shall mar their freshness,
		And perfume.
	For the angels bore them, robed in spotless white,
		To their peaceful home of light.
			JENNIE SNYDER.
			MARTHA GLEDHILL.
			ANNIE SMART.
			WALLACE HALIDAY.
			MAGGIE WATSON,
				Committee.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the late Sisters Mary
Ann Leaver, who departed this life April 4th,
1882, and Sarah Ann Needham, who died Feb.
22d, 1882. Adopted by the Eighth Ward Relief
Society May 4th, 1882.
	Whereas, in the dispensation of divine Provi-
dence, our late President, Mary A. Leaver and
Counselor Sarah A. Needham have been called
to a higher sphere of action, and,
	Whereas, our departed Sisters were worthy of
our highest regard, esteem, and affection, in
which they were held by the Society, their co-
laborers and intimate friends; and,
	Whereas, it is our duty and privilege to express
our apreciation of their many virtues and good
qualities, and efficient services.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that these Resolu-
tions be recorded in the minutes of the Eighth
Ward Relief Society, and a copy presented to
the families of our esteemed sisters, also pub-
lished in the EXPONENT.
	ESTHER B. FLETCHER.


ELIZABETH BIRCH.

	In behalf of the Primary Asociation, No. 4
Mill Creek Ward, the following was read at the
first meeting, after the death of President E.
Birch.
	We meet but what a change. Since our last
meeting, our dearly beloved President, has been
taken from our midst. How we miss her sweet
smiling face. She was ever kind and patient
with our failings. How it rejoiced her to hear
our testimonies or whatever exercises we at
tempted. The attempt was all that she required
of any one, although she was delighted with 
success.
	Let us ever bear in mind her wise counsel; if
we will, we shall meet her again in that blest
land, where the weary are at rest. She never
seemed so happy as while laboring for the wel-
fare of her Primary friends.
	Sister Elizabeth Birch, was the daughter of
Richard and Betty Hardman. Was at the time
of her death aged 71 years, 11 months and 16
days. She had been a member of the Church,
for over forty years. She left two sons and a 
large number of grand-children and great-grand-
children.
	May her rest be sweet and her reward glorious.
		ALICE A. WINDER, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

A TYPICAL FEUDAL CITY.

	If the reader will turn to the map of Europe 
and place her finger near the centre of tne ‘
southern half of the German Empire, it will
indicate almost the exact position of the city of
Nuremberg (or Nurnberg), and that name
will probably sound familiar, for one or more
reasons, to most of those who peruse this article.
Those who are mothers, and hence deal more
or less in playthings, will recall the fact that
the fame of Nuremberg toys has reached even
the valleys of Utah. Some will remember the
city as the birthplace, on the 21st of May,
1471, of Albrecht Durer, painter and engraver,
the versatility of whose gifts made him more
nearly resemble the immortal Angelo than any
other artist of history. A very celebrated
sculptor, Adam Krafft, was also born here, and
during a long life left, in many parts of the
town, evidences of his great excellence with
the chisel; and some noted die-sinkers and
metal-workers, as well as two or three poets, a
historian or two, and other men whose names,
if mentioned, would be familiar to the biograph-
ical student, first saw light in this city.
	To those who belong to the large class of
human beings who earn their living by the use
of the pencil, it will be no news to say that situ-
ated here are the factories of the Messrs. Faber,
whose pencils are known and used all over the
civilized world. I will not presume to think
any of my readers know any thing about the
quality or reputation of Nuremberg beer; but
evreywhere in Europe and in nearly all parts
of the United States, it is a favorite for its
fine and peculiar flavor, its rich color and its
purity. But the city is quite a famous one in
Europe, for various other reasons, and in quaint
old Germany itself has the reputation of being 
one of the best preserved of the ancient forti-
fied towns of the empire.
	Like everything else which makes an en-
during mark upon the page of history, Nurem-
berg is greatly indebted for its existence to a
woman—in fact a woman, if not the actual
founder of the city, was at least the one who
gave it the stability and prestige which it has
never lost to this day. Something over eight
hundred years ago there lived in central Europe
an Empress, named Kunigunde, whos career,
if all be true that is told about her, was a very
interesting one. I am not aware that she has
had any accurate biographer, who has taken
the pains to search after proofs of her wonder-
ful deeds, and who has refrained from giving
credence to such stories as were at best but
the wild superstitions of the peasantry. On
the contrary, every writer who has mentioned
her at all, seems to have adopted what previous
historians have said, and added a little himself
to make his book more entertaining. We all
know, from every day experience, how rapidly
a tale grows and improves with each successive
repetition, and we can each therefore form an
idea of how small a foundation, eight hundred
years ago, may have existed for the marvelous
accounts which we read of to-day. For ex-
ample, it is quite a common tradition nowa-
days respecting this Kunigunde that she came
from heaven to earth in a flame of fire, as a
perfect woman, in the height of beauty, and
possessing all the elements of immortality. An
earlier story is that as she lay in her little
cradle, flames of fire were seen to dart from and
envelope it, much to the alarm of her parents,
whom she, however, reassured by telling them,
though she was only three months old, that
she would not be injured. And a still earlier
tradition, and probably one somewhere near
correct, recites that as the infant princess was
for the first time presented to her delighted
father, the great chimney place took fire and
fell wih a loud crash—a good omen, so the old
nurses said, indicating that the child should
become great and mighty, tearing down old

[Column 2]

empires and causing new ones to grow up in
their stead.
	It would be very wearisome to relate all the
events of her childhood as told by such histor-
ians as believe she had a childhood, or to men-
tion the various traditions still held as to the
signs of heavenly displeasure at the time of
her marriage. Suffice it to say, whether she
were a heavenly or an earthly being, she had
a true woman's heart, and yielded to the wooing
of a handsome young prince, whom she mar-
ried amid great rejoicings of the people and
with bright prospects of lifelong happiness.
She, however, was ambitious and restless, while
her husband was indolent and satisfied to pass
away his life in ease and the pursuit of pleasure.
She therefore assumed the lead of affairs, es-
tablished herself at the city of Nuremberg
(now heard of for the first time in history), de-
fended it with strong fortifications, made con-
tinual inroads upon the territory of her weaker
neighbors, and was able to resist the attacks of
her stronger ones. She ruled with severity,
giving simple justice always, but mercy, never.
The Burg, or castle, now mostly rebuilt, situ-
ated on an elevated sandstone rock, is where
she lived, and in the courtyard still grows the
old lime tree, planted by her, under which she
sat sternly administering her own laws. Many
of the walls and defences, said to have been
erected by her orders, and according to her
own designs, also remain and attest the true
Amazonian character and attributes credited
to her. And all this was done in a very short
time, for in the prime of life, some say in less
than ten years after her marriage, she came to
her death under the following painful circum-
stances.
	From her last incursion into a neighboring
province, she brought, as prisoner, to her strong-
hold a brave robber knight, whose manly,
proud bearing, during his imprisonment, quite
won her heart, and she made overtures to him
promising him liberty, great wealth, and half
her kingdom if he would join her in a con-
spiracy to get her husband out of the way.
About this time it appears that her ease-loving
lord became a little suspicious, and set spies to
watch the maneuvres of his cunning better
half. At last, just as she had locked the jailor
in his own room, and was opening the gates to
the knight, who was already on his horse,
the betrayed husband with his guards rushed in
and gave a very unexpected conclusion to the
programme. The empress threw the keys of
the fortress down a deep well, while the knight,
knowing that certain death awaited him, re-
solved to meet it in an attempt to escape. He
spurred his horse on to the parapet wall, at a
single bound, cleared the moat which encircled
the castle, and was free. Cheated of one of
his conspirators, the emperor, now thoroughly
aroused, resolved to punish the other at once,
and very affectionatly threw his wife headlong
down the well, ordering her to bring the keys
to him before she need expect his forgiveness.
It is said that she did come once, with the keys.
hanging at her girdle, but her ghostly appear-
ance was so terrible that the poor conscience-
stricken man died of fright. In confirmation
of these details, the old castallan leads the
unbeliever to the well itself (fee six cents), and 
lower candles into it to show its great depth,
while with solemn whispers, he declares that
by means of a mirror properly arranged, on a
dark night, the spirit of the restless woman
may be seen, groping about for the castle keys,
without which she cannot accompany her hus-
band to paradise. As the moat at this point is
about one hundred and thirty feet wide and
one hundred deep, with perpendicular walled
sides, T was disposed to doubt the equestrian 
feat of the robber; but the guide triumphantly
led me to a certain part of the castle wall where
two deep indentations made by the hoofs of
the steed in his grand leap still remain, mute

[Column 3]

witnesses of the truthfulness of the warder's
tale. I was also amused at his reply to my
assertion that I did not believe his account
about the tree under which Kunigunde admin-
istered justice, because I did not believe that
justice ever was administered in Nuremberg at
all. "You may depend the story is true," said
he; "you will notice, Herr American, that it is
so long since any was administered, the grass
has grown up out of and over the stones of the
pavement and made a smooth, mossy lawn of
it." He was so prompt with his reply that I
concluded some other American had made the
same objection as myself, having learned from
bitter experience that the goddess with the
scales was here, not only blindfolded but bound
hand and foot—perfectly powerless.
	Such is a brief sketch of the earliest history
of a city which has withstood the feudal and
more modern wars of Europe, and remains to-
day almost as ancient looking and as well pre-
served as it ever was. Of its authentic history
much that is interesting might be mentioned,
showing its great prosperity in the sixteenth
century, before the discovery of the sea route
to the Indies, its subsequent decline, and its
restoration again to the position which it now
occupies, as the chief city of manufacture and
trade in South Germany. But it will perhaps
be sufficient to add, by way of conclusion, that
it became one of the free towns of the empire
in the twelfth century, and received many im-
portant concessions from successive emperors,
to whom it furnished a residence. For the
next few hundred years it was one of the lead-
ing cities of Europe in the protection offered to
art, and in the activity and energy of its busi-
ness men. But during the Thirty Years' War
is suffered greatly, and during several decades
following it, the feeble rule of the patrician
families caused it to sink almost into insignifi-
cance, until, in 1806, when it became a Bav-
arian city, life again returned to it, and it be-
came and has since remained a flourishing com-
mercial centre. Since the Reformation it has 
always been a stronghold of Protestanism,
Melancthon having early introduced his prin-
ciples, and having received a warm welcome.
Certain relics in the museum, however, indicate
that the tortures of the Inqnisition were not
unknown here in early times, for there may be
seen the rack, the thumb screw, a sort of heavy
pillory, and a hollow cast iron figure filled
with spikes, called the Iron Virgin, into which
the heretic was thrust and fastened. A picture
of the guillotine on the ceiling of one of the
old buildings is significant also, showing that
that horrible instrument is not, as has been
generally supposed, of modern invention.
	The people are quiet and old-fashioned, but
industrious. The streets are narrow and
crooked but clean. The houses are irregular
and not handsome, though very picturesque,
and every few steps may be seen niches in the
walls where a little statue of the Virgin or
some favorite saint has been placed by the
pious inhabitant. In some of the old private
residences, in which it is said are fifty rooms
and even more, the red tiled roof, which seems
to start from the ground, and the eaves of
which are so low that a tall person actually
has to stoop to get into the door, runs up to
such a high peak and is filled all the way up
with such a bewildering number of the funny
little pointed windows, that one cannot question
the truth of the statement. The appearance
of these houses, whole streets of them, is very
odd, especially when ornamented, as most of
them are, with medallions in relief and images
of the most grotesque looking animals with the
most whimsical inscriptions. The main at-
tractions, however, are still the fortifications,
which are in almost perfect preservation. The
old town is surrounded by a heavy rampart,
strengthened here and there by towers of var-
ious shapes, and was in warlike times entered


by four gates, the massive towers defending
which still remain. Outside the wall is a dry
moat, thirty-five yards wide and thirty-five
feet deep, walled up securely and made doubly
strong wherever there was opportunity. The
material used is a species of coarse sandstone,
yielding readily to the action of the pick axe
but resisting admirably the effects of the
weather. Every conceivable advantage, in
matter of angles and projections was taken,
and it would seem that, before the days of im-
proved artillery, the place was really impreg-
nable. The most frequented and finest parts
of the works are where the small river, the
Pegnitz, enters and leaves the town, through
low, fantastic arches, and also in the neighbor-
hood of the castle. Since 1807, when many
other gateways were made into the city, the
moat, at such places, has been filled up.
Where it still remains in its original form it
now, however, serves a more peaceful purpose
though still keeping away a great enemy—
starvation—from the doors of many of the in-
habitants, who make use of its low, warm
sheltered location, for raising early vegeatables
and excellent fruit. One or two beer gardens
flourish in the shadow of its walls, and right at
the base of the old castle itself some enter-
prising Teuton has started a poultry house.
The cackling of the fowls is not very conducive
to the state of reverie and meditation which so
ancient a place might he expected to produce.
No one visits the city without taking a stroll
clear around the original battlements, and a
more interesting hour can scarcely be imagined.
A few mornings since I had just concluded the
round as the sun peeped over the dark pine
forrest on the east, and ten minutes afterwards
took train for another part of the empire I
bidding Nuremberg, as I now do the Expon-
ent, for a time “Goodbye.”
		SCHWIEGERSOHN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

MINK CREEK, IDAHO.

	On January 14th, 1882, a special meeting
was called, and Bishop Rasmus Rasmusen, by
unanimous vote of the people, reorganized the
Relief Society, with the following officers, viz:
Ingrid Graham, President; Ane Rasmusen,
First Counselor; Adolphine Larsen, Second
Counselor; Sophia Rasmusen, Secretary; and
Clara Rasmusen, Treasurer; thirty members
enrolled. Six teachers are laboring among the
sisters. We hold our meetings twice a month,
on Wedenesday at 2 o'clock. Total number of
officers and members, thirty-six.
	Officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.: Christine
Keller, President; Minnie Eskelser, First
Counselor; Emilie Bjorn, Second Counselor;
Catharine Keller, Secretary; Marie Peterson,
Treasurer; twenty-two members enrolled; total
number of officers and members, twenty-seven.
They keep their own minutes and roll book,
but are holding their meetings conjoint with the
Y. M. M. I. A. every Saturday at 2 o' clock.
	Primary Association—Emma Rasmusen,
President; Christine Nelsen, First Counselor;
Catharine Larsen, Second Counselor; Ane Lar-
sen, Secretary; Karen Sorensen, Treasurer;
thirty-five members enrolled. They hold their
meetings every Saturday at 11 o'clock; meet-
ings generally well attended. Total number of
officers and members, forty.
	The Relief Society is trying to get a farm
to plant and attend the coming season, to
commence storing some wheat for future use,
and to help to build temples. Our settlement
is very much scattered, and it makes it some-
what inconvenient for the sisters to meet,
yet our meetings, considering, are very well
attended. The Bishop and a few of the other
brethren occasionally visit our meetings and

[Column 2]
counsel and encourage us. Always praying
for the welfare of God's kingdom and the
interest of woman's cause and the EXPONENT
as its advocate, I have the pleasure to be
			Yours, in the Gospel,
						INGRID GRAHAM.

SEVIER STAKE.

	The tenth Quarterly Conference of Sevier
Stake of Zion was held at Richfield, March
17th, 1882. President Elizabeth Bean pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, Sis-
ter Bean expressed herself as being happy in
meeting her brethren and sisters in conference
capacity, and thankful for the good spirit we
had with us. Desired each one to try, by the
spirit of the Lord, to magnify their calling,
and perform the duties devolving upon them.
	President A. K. Thurber, who had just re-
turned from the Legislature, addressed the con-
ference. Related interesting incidents of the
Legislature. Briefly referred to the passage of
the Edmunds bill, and its unjust and unneces-
sary laws. Exhorted the sisters to live humble
and faithful, and seek for the spirit of God to
guide them. Invoked the blessings of heaven
upon them.
	President Bean felt to endorse the remarks
of Brother Thurber. She was reminded of
Brother Kimball's comparison of this work to
a stalk of mustard. She loved the land of her
birth. Persecution had commenced at the
house of the Lord, and we should cleanse the
inside of the platter. Order should be in every
family; for this kingdom is one of order. Said
the Gentile women could not understand the
principle of Celestial Marriage; and they never
would.
	Bishop Wright followed with a few remarks.
Singing. Benediction by Brother G. W. Bean.
	2 P. M. After singing and prayer, the pres-
idents, of the different societies, gave verbal re-
ports of their societies, showing that those who
were interested were diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duty.
	Sister Celia E. Bean read the statistical and
financial reports of each society, and a com-
piled stake report.
	The conference was addressed by Brothers
Pierce, Oldroyd and Entz, Sisters Heywood
and Bean. All gave good counsel, and invoked
the blessings of Heaven upon all branches of
the Relief Society. Conference adjourned un-
til June 16th, 1882. Singing. Benediction.
					CELIA E. BEAN,
						Secretary pro tem.

ST. GEORGE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of the St. George Stake of Zion, held
at St. George, Friday March 17th, 1882. Coun-
selor Anna L. Ivins presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises, the min-
utes of our last Conference were read and ac-
cepted. The different wards were represented
by their respective presidents. The financial
condition of the societies throughout the Stake
were reported in a better condition than usual.
President McAllister gave some very good
general instructions. The meeting was also
addressed by Sisters Anna L. Ivins and Lucy
B. Young; and a good spirit prevailed through-
out the whole Conference.
			ELIZABETH P. BENTLY,
				Corresponding Secretary.

NORTH OCDEN.

	Minutes of a Primary Conference held at
North Ogden, February 25th, 1882. Sister M.
A. Wallace presiding. Singing, "We are the
children of the Saints;" prayer by Bishop Amos
Maycock; singing, "Gather up the Sunbeams;"
roll called, one hundred members present; min-
utes of the last meeting read and accepted;
programme read. Exercises: Recitation, Fran-

[Column 3]
ces Wharton, entitled "Joseph the Prophet;"
recitation, Andrew Clark, entitled "Obedience;"
song, Lydia and Emily Bailey and Bessie
Stevens, entitled "Daughter, don't let Mother
do it;" recitation, John Williams, entitled
"Poverty;" dialouge, Samuel Storey and Joseph
Cazier, entitled "A discussion between a Gen-
tile gentleman and a Mormon boy;" recitation,
Margaret Holmes, entitled "Address to a flower;"
song, William S. Wallace and Charles Ellis, en-
titled "Say, why do birdies warble?" recitation,
Ruth M. Evans, entitled "Lines inscribed to
Bishop Hunter;" recitation, Rose Brown, en-
titled "In memory of Joseph Standing;" song,
Edwin T. Alvord, entitled "Dare to do right;"
the first chapter of the "Bible Questions and
Answers" were repeated in concert by the
Association; song, by Harriet Barker and
Annie Storey, entitled "Lost and Saved;" reci-
tation, by Florence Wade, "Make the best of
life;" dialogue, "The history of Joseph the Pro-
phet," William and Thomas Richards; song,
"Mother is dying," Lilie Ellis and Mamie Cra-
gun; recitation, "Memento Mori," Lillie Rose;
recitations, Joseph and M. A. Wallace Jr.,"
"All things bright and beautiful," and "I'm
very young and little;" song, "Gladly meeting,"
by Naomi Jones; recitation, E. A. Chadwick,
"The Martyred Prophets;" recitation, William
S. Wallace, "The scripture alphabet;" song,
Nellie Richards, "I'll be a little Mormon;"
recitation; "Nobody like Mother," George
White; song; Lizzie Wallace, "I cannot sing the
old songs." President Wallace then gave the
meeting into the hands of the sisters from
Ogden. Sisters E. Y. Stanford and Rose
Canfield, counselors of the Primary Association
of Weber Stake, Sister H. Nye, Ogden, Bishop
Maycock and Counselors, of North Ogden.
Sisters Stanford, Canfield and Nye gave some
very excellent instructions to the children; they
were pleased with the exercises and said it
was the best conference of the Primary Associ-
ation they had ever attended. The president
and first counselor from the Hot Springs, gave
some very good advice; Bishop Maycock and
Sister M. A. Walker addressed the children.
Members enrolled, one hundred and sixty-nine.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing "Love at home." Benediction by Brother
N. Montgomery; Mary A. Wallace, President;
Margaret Storey and Sarah J. Ellis, Counsel-
ors; Elizabeth C. Wallace, Secretary; Mary
Storey, Assistant Secretary.

TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.

	The Anniversary of the Primary Association
of the 20th Ward was held in the schoolhouse
on Wednesday, April 19th, 1882. Mrs.
Emma Toone presiding. Exercises as usual.
Roll called; one hundred and twenty six-mem-
bers present. The programme for the after-
noon was as follows:
	Essay, written by Miss Isabella Salmon; sub-
ject, "The Primary Association." Song, "Mossy
Old Mill," by Kate Sharp, Lucy Savage and
Emily Sharp. Dialogue, by Selina Pusey and
Millie Reynolds, on "The First Principles of the
Gospel." Recitation, "Our Darling Baby," by
Kate Romney. Song, "I'm going to write
to Papa," with accompaniment on the small
piano, by Josie Daynes. Essay, on "Truth," by
George Ross. Bible questions, answered by the
Association. Recitation, "Boys of Spirit," by
Willie Culmer. Song, by Flora Phillips, en-
titled "Happy Moments." Lines on the resto-
ration of the Gospel, recited by Georgina Toone.
Essay, on "Obedience," by Lucy Savage. Song,
"May-day," by the juvenile choir. Dialogue,
on "Attending Sabbath School," by Frank
Pusey and Willie Phillips. Recitation, "Order-
ly Habits," by Mary Ann Jackson. Recitation
in Concert, "Young Missionaries," by four boys
and five girls. Song, by Emma Forrest, "I
wish Mamma was here." Reading, from the


Book of Mormon, by Willie Knight. Song, by
Mary Romney, "Cling to me ever." Recitation,
by Maud and Lilly Potter, a humorous
piece. Recitation, by Isabella Romney, "Morn-
ing Prayer." Song, by Ida Savage, Ida San-
some and Lenny Savage, "The unfinished
prayer." Recitation, by Rhoda Jackson, "Sleep,
Dolly, sleep." Recitation, by Alice Reynolds,
Scriptural, from the Juvenile Instructor. Song
by the Association, "Love at Home."
	Addresses were then delivered by Sisters E.
R. Snow Smith, Ellen C. Clawson, Louie Felt,
Rachel R. Grant and Counselor Pusey,
Bros. Lewis, Romney, Salmon, Richards and
Simmons; all of which were very brief but
interesting and instructive.
	The children were then treated to a sumptu-
ous feast of cake, oranges and candy. The 
pleasant affair winding up with a dance for the
young folks. Altogether the children spent an
enjoyable time.
	CECILIA SHARP,
	Corresponding Secretary.

YEARLY REPORT
	Of the 20th Ward Primary Association,
from April 19th, 1881, to April 19th, 1882.
We have held forty-two meetings during the
year. There are one hundred and forty-five
members enrolled; our average attendance is
from eighty-five to ninety. Our readings are 
from the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and
Covenants, the Bible, and miscellaneous read-
ings; total number for the year, one hundred
and two; recitations, one hundred and fourteen;
songs, thirty-eight; essays, six; dialogues, six-
teen; and the number of testimonies borne by
the children, one hundred and fifteen; organ
solos, two. The children take great interest in
learning and are not often unprepared. We
meet every Thursday at 3 o' clock, and the
members are very punctual. We always receive
good instructions from our President and her
Counselors, and the children generally pay very
good attention and are improving wonderfully.
We are taught to be orderly, obedient to our
parents, to be truthful and to pray often. We
have a great desire to go on improving.
	Financial Report: We have a five cent
fund organized for the benefit of the Associa-
tion. Money recieved from the fund, $6.90.
Disbursed $3.25., Cash on hand, $3.65.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE COFFIN FAMILY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend:—Will you allow me to express
a few of my feelings through the columns of
the EXPONENT, regarding my relatives and
progenitors, bearing the name of Coffin, and by
that means I may more readily communicate
with them? They have been most assiduously
searching our genealogies, and in getting up
the Tristram Coffin reunion, which has been a
great undertaking; and I want to express my
gratitude and the great interest I take in their
proceedings publicly, and show my reverence to
my noble ancestors. I am anxiously looking
for the book that the union is about to publish
respecting this extensive family, both lineal and
collateral, and I know many here in the
mountains of Utah who will rejoice with me
in reading it, and will make use of the gene-
alogies it will contain; and I take this mode of
publicly expressing my feelings upon this sub-
ject, by sending an EXPONENT to each of the
heads of my relations. I received a paper they
sent me, containing a most interesting account
of our English branch of the family; which I
felt, as I read, was indeed an honor to us; and
I felt my spirit inspired, as I read, by the
spirit of these my English ancestors of eight
hundred years. I will here give an extract

[Column 2]

from a letter of Mrs. Mary Coffin Johnson,
of Brooklyn, who visited our relatives in
Portledge, England. She says: "Portledge is
one of the very few estates in England which
has remained for so great a length of time in a
family retaining the original name, about eight
hundred years! On entering the gateway, the
drive through the park is nearly half a mile in
length, on a winding road overshadowed by
noble oaks. At almost every turn some new
charm and fresh beauty is disclosed, until the
lordly mansion is seen.
	"The butler received us at the hall door. Our
cards were taken to J. R. Pine Coffin, the
hospitable owner and lord of the manor, who
soon appeared, and cordially welcomed us. I
had previously exchanged letters with him, con-
cerning my proposed visit. Much to my re-
gret, I had not the pleasure of meeting the
lady of Portledge; she having been suddenly
called to the death-bed of her mother. She
is highly spoken of, as a most estimable lady,
and is the sister of the late Captain Speake,
the Nile voyager. Our English cousin, J.
B. Pine Coffin is a specimen of an English
gentleman—and a Coffin! He is fine and
noble in physique, and leads one, cordially,
to admire him, being frank, genial and most
hospitable.
	"One remark, just before we started for our
walk over the estate, was of personal interest
to me, betraying, as it did, the independence of
thought and action which every Coffin pos-
sessed when convinced of a good measure.
Said he, "You shall take some refreshment be-
fore we go, will you have tea, coffee or cocoa?
I am a teetotaller, I do not offer wine to my
guests." This gentleman has ten children,
forming a lovely group from Miriam, down to
baby 'Dorothy,' who was in nurse's arms—
excellent types of real full-blooded Coffins," etc.
	And now I want to remark on the grand
success of the re-union held on Nantucket
Island on the 16th, 17th and 18th of August,
1881, being the last resting place of Tristram
Coffin and his wife, Dionis, and the first of their
name in America. Two monuments are to be
erected to their memory in honor of them; also a
genealogical history is to be printed; and I feel
to sustain the memorial by having each of my
family join it, and contribute their means to it.
One of my sons is on the committee, and has
received a notice from Andrew G. Coffin, of
New York, treasurer, 72 John street, to for-
ward our subscription to the Coffin Testimonial
Fund as enclosed in the circular. The arduous
and protracted labors performed by him, by
which the re-union was made so grand a success,
richly deserves recognition at the hands of
the clan.
	I have received several papers from Prof.
Selden J. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Easton,
Penn., giving account of the celebration each
day; and have obtained valuable records from
our noble English relative, and some valuable
portraits in good preservation. All this has
given me delight and satisfaction. The history
of the Coffin family, going so far back, will give
some history and line of ancestry to many in
this country, and the mountains. My son and
some of the family intended to have been at
the re-union last August, but business prevented,
but are in hopes to be able to go before long,
to visit the beloved spot of our kindred and
ancestors. If this is printed, I will send several
papers to my beloved relatives and friends.
	Respectfully yours,
		ELMIRA PINKHAM TUFTS.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


G. P. Putman and Sons, have in press a vol-
ume by Eben G. Scott, on the "Development
of Constitutional Liberty in the English Colo-
nies of America."—Ex.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No.17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

