VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1881.	NO. 9


MRS. GARFIELD.

Noble, honored, yet afflicted!
	As this morn I bow the knee,
From my heart unto our Father,
	Flows a pleading prayer for thee.

Though a nation sorrows with thee,
	Thousands all to thee unknown;
None can share thy secret burdens,
	Thy great loss is thine alone!

Ne'er were faith and courage needed
	More by man than by thee now;
Not e'en by the fallen chieftain
	Over whom you weepling bow.

Only He who "feeds the ravens"
	Can bestow that peace and rest,
Which may soothe the deep emotions
	Of a soul like thine oppressed.
Surely, surely He will aid thee
	All thy griefs to bravely bear;
Little children, pure as angels,
	Lisp to-day thy name in prayer.

Every wife and every mother,
	Bowing at the sacred shrine,
With a sister's tender yearnings,
	Feels her own heart bleed with thine!

	LULA.
Salt Lake City, Sept. 20, 1881.


[Column 1]

MAKE HOME BEAUTIFUL.

	The young ladies of to-day have many more
advantages and opportunities for cultivating
those little artistic talents which so beautify
and embellish the home, than did our parents.
There are now teachers in every branch of art,
and materials to work with.
	Among the most delicate and beautiful
branches of art may be classed hand embroid-
ery. All sorts of beautiful flowers, birds and
unique designs can be made with the needle
and silk on curtains, lambrequins, table and
chair covers, &c. Nothing can make a prettier
present than some little embroidered scarf,
handkerchief or nick-nack, with the words:
"It is not much, but I worked it myself;" and
you will find it highly appreciated. Among
the wealthy the drapery of rooms is all em-
broidered in beautiful colors, and at present
this class of work is quite fashionable as well
as beautiful. Ladies now-a-days are also tak-
ing a great deal to drawing and painting, in
both water colors and oil, and here in this
country, where the landscapes all around are
most lovely and charming, one would have
abundant advantage and encouragement for the
art. How exceedingly delightful it would be,
when out on a May-walk, or summer picnic, to
be able to sit down and sketch the scene you
visited, and returning home finish it up in the
life-like colors for your portfolio, as a remem-
brance of the pleasant day.
	Music is not less attractive aud fascinating
because it is mentioned among the last, but, on
the contrary, it seems to me it must be the
most delightful of all the arts. How happy it
must make one feel to be able to bring pleasure
and joyousness through the medium of the
voice, and how thankful that one ought to be
to his Creator; that he has such a gift. Yet
this talent, as well as the others, needs cultivat-
ing. The voice may be beautiful and clear,
but cultivation gives it a finish that renders a
naturally good voice capable of the most en-
chanting sounds.
	Elocution is a talent that until lately has

[Left Margin "Annie N. C[---]"]

[Column 2]

been neglected here, and there are many who
might make very good readers. It is indeed a
gift for one to be able to bring out the true
meaning, strong force and deep pathos of a
beautiful poem, and it is a delightful pastime
for oneself, as well as pleasing to one's friends,
to be able to read well and understandingly.
'Tis a pity that this talent has not been culti-
vated to a greater extent among our young
people, for the study is in itself most beautiful
and fascinating.
	My dear reader, would you like to visit a
friend with me to-day, and see her lovely little
home? Here it is; and the eye seems rested as
we enter and gaze at the pretty things around.
My friend, always busy, must keep us waiting
a little while for her coming, so we will amuse
ourselves by glimpsing around at the little par-
lor. First, here is the book-case—a neat, ele-
gant little piece of furniture of ebony and
glass, and completely filled with a miscellaneous
gathering of books, all the poets of course, a
few nice novels, such as Charlotte Bronte might
write, some fine histories, the best essays, per-
haps Macaulay's, Johnson's, Emerson's; beauti-
ful little books on art, travels and writers, and
all those treasures of the pen that a fine nature
would wish to possess. In the window is a
flower stand, filled with the most delicate and
rare flowers, and most of them in bloom; the
ivy creeps around the wires of the stand and
up higher, till it reaches the curtains and
forms a verdant wreath for the window case-
ment. In another nook rests a guitar; oh,
how we love the sweet strains that issue forth
from this little instrument! sometimes one
might almost think it had a soul, so touching
are the sounds. Further on, in the corner,
there is the piano, open of course, for in this
home it is for use, not show, and our friend
plays so beautifully; don't think she is a mas-
ter, but her music is quite thrilling, and her
selections are so sweet and pretty; simple it is
true, but, nevertheless, they are the kind that
touch the heart. And here, what is this? An
easel? Yes; and on it an unfinished picture;
nothing much, only a cluster of pure calla lillies,
yet how lovely and natural. The chairs are
all covered with fine embroidery, and little
trinkets adorn the shelf and tables that this
fair hand has made. But here, most beautiful
of all, comes our friend. It is needless to des-
cribe her, the room has done so already. We
were sure of what our greeting would be the
moment we entered, for no home could possibly
have other than the sweetest of women to care
for it.
	Yet, don't think for one moment that this
dear little woman, who cultivates all these
pretty, artistic talents, knows nothing of the
dire necessaries of life; oh, no, she is a capital
housekeeper, her bread, cake, preserves, pies,
&c., are the nicest you ever tasted, and I would
like to have you test them, but there is no time
now, for we have already stayed too long in
this enchanted spot, and the shadows of night
are gathering, and as the stars peep forth from
their hiding places and the flowers hold forth
their leaves for the sparkling dew, I bid you
good-night, with the hope that you will culti-
vate these lovely things, that more homes may
compare with the one just left.
	ANNIE.


IF every person would be half as good as he
expects his neighbor to be, what a heaven this
world would be.—Luther Norris.


DISPOSITION.

	Is there anything so beautiful as a lovely
disposition. In my mind there is no way in
the world in which one can do more good, and
surely nothing that can make all around us so
happy, as to be always kind and pleasant. It
is nonsense for any person to say that he does
not know when he has done a good act; for our
Father has made our bodies so sensitive that
we, as well as the one cheered, always feel the
good influence. When we see we have made
some one happier, that perhaps by one little
word we have raised a fellow being and kin-
dled the fire of ambition within him; if we see
a face grow brighter for a kind word from us,
do we not feel it all through our frame? We
feel, oh! so happy, hardly knowing the reason
why. How many times have we heard people
say, "If I could only do some good in the
world;" "If I only had something to give,"
and the poorest of us can give kind words and
pleasant looks, and these are oftentimes needed
more than the filling of the purse. What if
we do sometimes feel tired, feel that everything
has gone wrong, then is the very time when we
should try to be good-natured, and in that way
throw off the depressing spirit.
	The best way in the world to overcome this
feeling is to comfort others and try to feel
that we are doing some good to those around
us. If it is only to make some sweet little
friend feel that she is not alone in the world,
and that she has some one who knows and can
<hta1jrw many="" afching="" heart3="" hi’e-been="" soothed'.by="" confiding="" their="" troubles="" to="" somerdear="" friend,="" who:="" could="" feel;.deeply="" and="" realize="" sofrow.="" did="" ever="" any="" one="" go="" away="" from="" such;-a;="" friend:="" without="" :saying,‘i="" feel="" that="" a="" weight="" has="" lbeen-="" lifted="" off="" ray="" heart;-:and="" that.="" ii="" have-="" parted="" witbvhalf="" inyf="" sorrow.="" "wet="" can="" soon.="" cheer!those;who="" :are.,sad="" fand="" lonely,="" if="" wdgo.="" thdarightiway="" wqrk;="" comnaeiicing="" by="" a.little:="" svinpifthy="" .and="" thafrygraddally="" turriingvithe-="" thaught3jintoh)="" brighter="" ;channdl.="" i="" daresay-="" after="" ai="" wliilo;="" ,they="" willinbt="" "think="" it="" was:so:bad!="" olafter="" allbayhoicari="" belp.iadmiririg="" person,="" of="" this="" .kind?'="" noil="" onbi="" us.-="" they="" are="" pure="" in="" motives="" wei="" loves="" them="" as:="" sbon="" aaitbey-="" known;:="" id="" us.n="" -bow.beautiful-="" ,it.is="" al-="" ways="" buyable="" tor="" light!="" up="" the="" fades:="" bf="" our="" friends="" makb.ithem="" happidr="" byourpres-="" ence;="" -bd'aule="" lodk="" cnl="" the:briht="" bide!="" picture="" causes="" smiles,="" beam="" where="" .="" therewerei="" tdars="" beforetrrto="" show="" the;sorrowed="" -="" silver="" lining="" fttthc="" clolid..="" thereis.no="" higher="" aim="" than="" cultivate="" good="" .disposition,="" andipothing="" more="" praiseworthy="" xraelwhen="" thus="" cultivated;.="" god;="" love="" to'iee:="" usicheerful="" nad="" happyiand="" we!="" never="" bel.really<happy="" unless:-="" wel="" biiltivath?="" swdefc="" dispositiomorlby="" doing="" ibik="" wo="" notconly="" be="" so.="" okrsfelvds,="" but="" impaiftj="" tjoy="" had="" jdve="" tothe="" .hearty-of="" all-those="" witlb.whoinbwd="" come="" on-contact,="" '.lam--i.="" jliud="" fiu="a77.o">sympathize with her.
	Many aching hearts have been soothed by
confiding their troubles to some dear friend,
who could feel deeply and realize their sorrow.
Did ever any one go away from such a friend
without saying I feel that a weight has been
lifted from off my heart, and that I have
parted with half my sorrow. We can soon
cheer those who are sad and lonely, if we go
the right way to work, commencing by a little
sympathy and then gradually turning the
thoughts into a brighter channel. I dare say
after a while they will not think it was so bad
after all. Who can help admiring a person of
this kind? Not one of us. If they are pure
in their motives we love them as soon as they
are known to us. How beautiful it is to al-
ways be able to light up the faces of our
friends and make them happier by our pres-
ence; to be able to look on the bright side of
the picture and cause smiles to beam where
there were tears before—to show the sorrowed
one the silver lining to the cloud. There is no
higher aim than to cultivate a good disposition,
and nothing more praiseworthy than one, when
thus cultivated. God loves to see us cheerful
and happy, and we can never be really happy
unless we cultivate a sweet disposition. By
doing this we can not only be so ourselves, but
impart joy and love to the hearts of all those
with whom we come in contact.
	BEATRICE.


QUEEN Victoria does not approve of carpets,
and has India matting placed on the floors of
nearly all her private apartments.

	THE Ole Bull memorial fund concert at
Bergen, Norway was a great success. Mrs.
Bull (a Wisconsin woman) and family were
present, and Miss Emma Thursby was the
principal star of the occasion. The receipts
were $10,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Soon after the return of President Brigham
Young and my father from Europe, they were
appointed chaplains to the Nauvoo Legion.
Their uniform was of black cloth, with cha-
peaus and plumes of the same color. After
the Prophet's assassination, President Brigham
Young was appointed in his stead as Lieut.-
General of the Legion.
	We were living but a little distance from
the training ground, where we witnessed many
grand displays, as well as on the prairie, where
they went to hold a three day's muster.
	I can call to mind many a pleasing reminis-
cence in the midst of our journeyings, while
others have grown dim in the lapse of years,
that have brought their various and trying
changes to all, more particularly to the Latter-
day Saints, who have been driven and scourged
for many years. The Lord has various ways
of bringing His children to repentance, and in
having to drink deep of the bitter cup, we
know better than any other people how to
sympathize with others when they are called
to suffer in a similar manner; and it has also
taught us how to enjoy the sweets as they come,
and I believe that we have been and are still
the happiest people living, for the Holy Spirit
has assisted us, and that with a clear conscience
is of more worth than the whole world without
it.
	In dwelling upon the early scenes in Nauvoo,
my mind reverts back to a time in Kirtland
when our brethren were in the habit of train-
ing every Saturday, and I can remember with
what joy and childish delight we would wel-
come that day, and I remember too how I
used to love to hear the old patriotic songs,
and to read or listen to the tales rehearsed con-
cerning what was then called "the late war"
with Great Britain, and also the revolutionary
war, where our liberty was bought with the
blood of our patriots.
	We were believers in an unpopular religion;
the founder was quite a young man, but was
called an old gold digger. Our claims to the
privileges guaranteed us by the Constitution,
though gained through long years of hard-
ships, suffering and privation, and the death of
many of our heroic sires, were denied us, and
my father and his brethren were obliged to
arm themselves; and for weeks were not per-
mitted to take off their clothes, and laid on the
ground with their firelocks night after night to
preserve the lives of the Prophet and their
families from those wicked traitors who were
threatening destruction upon them.
	The place where they daily mustered was in
a large meadow just behind our house, belong-
ing to Brother Ira Bond, and oh! how much I
enjoyed the training and music of their marital
band; it seemed one continual holiday for us
children, who had very little idea of the mean-
ing of it.
	Peace was restored for a little season, but we
had been in Far West just three weeks when the
brethren had to again rally together to defend
themselves from the mobbers of Missouri.
	We had moved into a portion of the public
storehouse, where we remained until father
built a small cabin, which he had intended for
a stable when our dwelling house was finished.
The storehouse stood on one side of the square
where the Saints had dug the foundation for a
Temple. This was the gathering place, where
the brethren mustered; they often came to our
door for a refreshing draught of water and to
rest in the shade of the house, as the weather
was extremely warm.
	I well remember the morning when the first
of the mobbers entered the city; we were at-
tending school, which was taught by Brother
Jesse Haven and his sister, who had lately,

[Column 2]
come there from Massachusetts. She was a
very sweet lady and greatly beloved by the
scholars and finally by all who became ac-
quainted with her. After we came to Nauvoo
she was married to Brother Israel Barlow, who
was among the first "Mormons," and they are
now living in Bountiful, Utah. The school-
house was a large, fine building, with an entry,
which the Saints had built on the outskirts of
the town. When the mobbers came in they
passed by the schoolhouse, and at the sound of
their bugle the excitement was so great that
we were allowed to go to the windows to see
them pass. Soon after this the school had to
be closed, in consequence of the mobbing.
During a portion of the next winter we at-
tended one taught by William Huntington in
a private dwelling house in the central part of
the city. I never realized any danger, but,
fired by the spirit of war, my eldest brother,
with my assistance, prepared for it by making
wooden guns, swords and flags, and the latter
were hoisted to the topmost part of our [-]ence or
cabin, where they could be seen fluttering in
the breeze, and at the martial sound of fife and
drum we would start to our feet and march
with as much enthusiasm as though we be-
longed to a regiment of soldiers. We realized
no danger, were probably too young; besides,
we were at headquarters. Many of the Saints
had fled to Far West for protection; not even
when the city was surrounded by the mob we
never knew that we were conquered, nor that
there were such fiends in a land that boasted of
freedom, professing Christianity, but no con-
sideration of justice or mercy could move their
stony hearts. Polygamy did not cause that, as
it had not been revealed.
	After many of the Saints had been massa-
cred, and others died through want and sick-
ness occasioned by their brutal course in the
dead of winter, the rest fled for their lives to
the then hospitiable State of Illinois, where
for a little season they enjoyed peace and the
privilege of organizing their men into a Le-
gion.
	Once more we could celebrate the glorious
and never-to-be-forgotten day of our nation's
Independence, the Fourth of July, which was
ushered in by the welcome peals of artillery,
and our martial and brass bands playing the
soul-thrilling airs that will never cease to in-
spire the heart of every true son and daughter
of freedom.
	Every act of our people from their first or-
ganization until the present time—although
they have been so cruelly persecuted and
driven from their homes, and many sealed their
testimony with their blood, and finally were
driven from out the United States—has proven
our loyalty to the Constitution, though opportu-
nities for forming other ties were not wanting,
which any other community under like circum-
stances would have accepted; but we had
brought with us the beloved stars and stripes,
which we had never deserted, no, not even
when Governor J. W. Shaeffer, to gratify his
spleen, prohibited the mustering of the Nauvoo
Legion. Our people considered it nothing
more nor less than a silly farce, which was
gracefully submitted to, as all other similar re-
quirements have been, thereby taking their
own weapons from out their hands; but when
required to give up our right to "serve God
according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences," and to accept of others' notions and
ideas of virtue and morality, that is quite an-
other thing; and though they may howl and
continue to heap upon us their contemptible
falsehoods, and call us bad names, they need
not flatter themselves that the "Mormon" wo-
men are so ignorant of the law, or so weak and
simple-minded as to be hoodwinked by any
man, not even a "Mormon." Our enemies
know as well as we do that we have broken no
law in practising Polygamy, it being a Bible

[Column 3]
doctrine, and we revive it as coming from the
Almighty, who sanctioned and honored it by
bringing forth our Savior through polygamous
lineage, and He declared that He was "the
root and the offspring of David."
	If people calling themselves Christians will
persist in denying this part of the Scriptures,
they had better burn up the whole. Before
my father ever heard that such a principle had
been revealed to Joseph Smith he said to some
friends in my hearing that if "all things were
to be restored again as they were in the begin-
ning," as the Scriptures declare them, the prin-
ciple of a plurality of wives must also be re-
stored; and he was heard to repeat the same
when on his second mission to Europe, but he
said he hardly expected it would come in his
day. And when he heard it taught by Joseph
Smith, he said the shock was similar to that of
an earthquake; and when he commanded him
to take another wife, if it had been his death
sentence he could not have felt worse, and
there were others who felt similar; and if it
could have been just as acceptable in the sight
of God, they would have chosen death. The
few humble Saints who heard the principle
from the Prophet's lips knew that he was a
true Prophet of God, for the Holy Spirit bore
witness to them that the principle was from
Him, and they knew too that Joseph Smith
would never have had the courage to introduce
such a doctrine, much less to command men to
enter into it whose traditions made it so obnox-
ious to their natural feelings, if it had not been
commanded by the Almighty, for he was fully
aware of the jeopardy in which he placed his
own life by doing it, and I know that life was
very dear to him, as much so as to any man
living, and that he was a devoted husband to
his first wife, Emma; and a more affectionate
father never lived; but he also knew that if he
disobeyed that command that he would be des-
troyed, and would also forfeit his eternal salva-
tion.
	If the few who believe this principle to be a
righteous one can afford to endure it, certainly
the stranger ought to leave us to ourselves to
work out the "problem," for we know that with
God's help we shall do it in spite of them.
We realize the greatness of the undertaking,
and also that many sad mistakes have been
made because of the foolishness of fallen man,
but that does not prove the principle to be in-
correct. We have been commanded to "try
all things and to hold fast that which is good,"
and we are trying to obey as far as it is possi-
ble in our weak and sinful states, and if it af-
fords any pleasure to our enemies to hurl their
wicked darts, and continue to waste their am-
munition upon us they are at liberty to do so.
We have learned long ago to keep cool, which
is the most aggravating of all, and I believe
that sensible people will in time become dis-
gusted.
	If those who call themselves Christians
would come to us with a spirit more in accord-
ance with their profession, if we could not all
see alike, we might at least be friends; but the
unrighteous and inhuman course taken to root
out what they please to call "The Twin Relic,"
only arouses in our hearts a more determined
spirit of opposition, and fills every virtuous
and sincere "Mormon" woman with indigna-
tion, and we tell them with the same spirit that
inspired the heroic defenders of liberty at
Bunker Hill, when they said to the infatuated
monarch of England, "We have chosen (re-
ligious) war in preference to voluntary slavery"
to their false ideas and the humbuggeries of ac-
knowledged Mormon-eaters and virtue and life
destroyers.


A LADY candidate is running for the office
of county superintendent of schools on the
Democratic ticket in Iowa County, Wis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 76


NEVER AGAIN.

Never again! O never again!
Words that come to me ringing with pain,
Chasing the brightness ont of my heart,
Causing sad tears of anguish to start;
Coming in spite of me, ever the same-
Never again, O never again!

Never again shall thy cheery word
In loving counsel again be heard,
Teaching us how to be brave and strong,
To love the right and to hate the wrong;
Never again shall thy watchful care
Lead us away from the tempter's snare.

No more shall we hear thy earnest prayer
Ascend to the Father for watchful care
Over the loved ones, though they might be
Scattered away from the "Family Tree,"
That all might be kept from sorrow and sin,
And each a name in His Kingdom might win.

Never again shall thy voice be heard
Teaching the precious Gospel word,
Blessing the widow and helping the poor,
Dealing from out thy generous store,
Leading the feeble, and guiding the young,
Till blessings dwelt on every tongue.

Never again shall thy tender tones
Gather around thee thy little ones,
Under the shade of the spreading tree,
Thine own hands planted so lovingly;
The little ones answer in sobs of pain,
Never again, O never again!

Be still, my heart, and cease to repine;
Thy will, O Lord, be done, not mine.
His mission is finished, his labor is done,
His debt is paid, and his crown is won;
No more sorrow, and no more pain,
Never again, no, never again.

Look forth, sad heart, to a future day,
When all old things will have passed away;
When earth will be clothed with eternal bloom,
And we shall inherit a glorious home.
And then in a grand, unbroken chain,
We'll meet to be parted, O, never again!
						ESTHER A. BENNION.


[Column 1]

﻿LIGHT READING.

	By common consent, light reading is gener-
ally denounced, Perhaps the statement is too
sweeping as it stands, and for the purposes of
this brief paper it may be as well to state that
the light reading here intended to be under-
stood refers to that branch customarily desig-
nated as "novel-reading." While I do not
wish to recommend novel reading, I do wish to
say that it is not without its virtues; that how-
ever many evils some may discover in it—many
of which are undeniably genuine—it has at-
tractions that recommend it to the judicious,
and that, despite the evil results attending ill-
timed and excessive light reading, the benefits
that accrue to those who exercise wisdom in it
are manifold and lasting. Like some other
good things in this world which could be men-
tioned, it suffers from abuse; and to the super-
ficial, the truth that it is capable of injury is a
sufficient argument that it can be pursued to
no good end. They overlook the fact, that the
evil is in the person, not in the thing.
	The most popular recommendation in favor
of light reading, and the one which, on account
of a lack of wisdom, brings it into such gen-
eral disrepute—is that of relaxation. When
followed purely for the purposes of relief, it is
at once one of the most pleasing, profitable,
effective and healthful. It is pleasing for the
reason that it entertains; it is effective, because
the relaxation is complete, it is healthful in
that no strain upon the system is due to it, no
 effort is required to draw the mind from the
subjects that have occupied it for hours, and
made it weary, and it fits the mind, by exhil-
erating the tone, for other labors; it is profit-

[Column 2]

able, because, however light the reading may
be, if the person that peruses it it moderately
intelligent and ordinarily apt, something of
profit can be found in it. In fact, one might
go so far as to declare, with a reasonable satis-
faction that the assertion is susceptible of proof,
that, there is no class of light reading—unless
it be actually vile and vicious—but some good
may be derived from it, if the person is capa-
ble of making it profitable.
	But to give sounder reasons why light read-
ing is productive of good. All will admit that
there are many worse things than the reading
of novels, even though they come under the
ignoble appellation of "trash." Parents, if
they are of sound mind, should find actual
comfort in the reading of light literature by
their children, when it keeps their offspring off
the streets and away from the influences of
evil and vicious habits. There is some good in
it in this regard, is there not?
	If the habit of reading once becomes con-
firmed, it is rarely if ever broken; and after it
has once taken hold, if care be exercised, but,
little difficulty will be experienced in introduc-
ing a higher standard of literature. Persons
who read from the force of habit, if they can-
not obtain that which is not—for they
will read.
	Reading is one of the most potent factors in
the cause of education; because, while pursued
from love, or habit, it unavoidably disseminates
information. It is a labor of love, but it
proves an effective physic also. In teaching a
child anything, it is necessary to begin at the
rudiments, and light reading is one of hte rudi-
ments to the habit of general reading.
	Since it imparts knowledge even when un-
sought, so also does it develop intelligence, even
when there is no active desire for intelligence;
and this intelligence will manifest itself in the
gradual and voluntary—though almost imper-
ceptible—selection of a higher class of litera-
ture, providing the nature of the reader is pro-
gressive.
	On the principle that like begets like, the
reader of ideas must himself create ideas; and
taking this as a basis, in this fact alone can be
found much profit in light reading. These
should be sufficient in themselves to stand as
recommendations in favor of light reading.
Mind you, it is not claimed that light reading
is preferable to solid reading, but that it is bet-
ter than no reading at all. Neither is it held
that the reasons given will apply to all, but
they will stand as applicable for genereal pur-
poses. But there are still other reasons which
advise light reading for the actual benefits it
insures, and which can be secured more readily
through it than by any other means, I will
omit a repetition of the recommendation found
in it as a source of relaxation, which, being
within the reach of all, at all times and all
places, cannot be surpassed, and will place it
on the ground that it is indispensable to the
cultivated mind, and that it occupies the same
exalted position as the study of art—for it is
a study of art. The well-read person, whose
conversation possesses such a charm is not one
who has informed himself upon scientific sub-
jects and become conversant with the classics
alone, but he is a person of general reading,
who has found food for reflection, who has dis-
covered profound thoughts, eloquent ideas and
moving sentiments in the products of the
novel-writer. Such a person feels the power
for good that is wielded by the writer of the
novel, and he has but to point to the products
of the brain of such men as Sir Walter Scott,
Charles Dickens and Charles Read, in Eng-
land, and to Nathaniel Hawthorne and others
of our own country, for a confirmation. The
novel is a power, and in the hands of a man
of genius, imbued with correct principles and
noble aspirations, it is a power for great, for

[Column 3]

widespread good, than which none can be
greater. Of course it is abused, so also is the
pulpit—the footstool of hte Lord—abused, but
no one would ever think of overthrowing the
pulpit because it has been defiled, any more
than they would think of throwing away a
dollar whidch could be used to clothe or feed
the poor, or to do one of a thousand praise
worthy things—because some one had formerly
employed the dollar for a vile purpose. What
we want to do is to see if we cannot find some
thing useful in the novel, as we do when in
kinder words we weigh the character of some
erring soul, and confess the good when we dis-
cover it. We should cease to make up our
minds it is bad, and peruse it only for the pur-
pose of finding out that which is unwholesome.
	I did intend explaining why novel reading
occupied a similar position to the study of art;
but I would not have space to do so in this ar-
ticle, and will defer it to another time. I only
ask a suspension of judgment until the oppor-
tunity to explain is afforded, when I am con-
vinced, I can prove my claim to be based upon
liberal, beneficial and logical principles
	SIMPLE SIMON.


A WOMAN DELEGATE.

	At the Massachusetts Republican Conven-
tion, Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, the modest and
eloquent advocate of suffrage for women, was
not stopped by a policeman at the door of Me-
chanic's hall and banished to the gallery, there
to await an appeal to the convention, but came
in like every other fellow and made one in the
grand total of 1038 delegated reported by the
elegant Mr. Lodge, of Nahant, for the com-
mittee on credentials. The state central com-
mittee slept on their action of last night, and
thought better of the purpose to go behind the
returns and discriminate against the Melrose
woman delegate. This morning the committee
adopted the following resolution:—
	In view of the recent death of our beloved
President James A. Garfield, and the sad cir-
cumstances under which our state convention
to-day assembles, causing a universal desire on
the part of this committee to have no debate,
no discussion ofs pecial subjects in open conven-
tion; and also in consideration of the fact that
our chairman has upon his personal responsi-
bility directed the issuing of a ticket of admis-
sion to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a delegate
from the town of Melrose, without approving
her course or acknowledging her right to act
as a delegate in the convention, and without
rescinding from the opinions expressed by this
state central committee at its last session, viz.:
that no person has any right to act as a dele-
gate in the republican state convention who is
not a voter in this state and legally qualified
to vote at the polls for the election of those
state officers who might by their vote be nomi-
nated by the convention,— voted that the action
of this committee at its last session, refusing
admission to Mrs. Mary A. Livermore as a
delegate without the concurrence of the full
convention, be rescinded.
	The full language is given because the anti-
women faction distinctly and emphatically deny
that they "backed down." You may think
what you please about it. They repudiate the
"insiduendo." Some of them earnestly and
honestly stick for the principle that the partici-
pants in a political convention must be persons
who are legally qualified to vote for its candi-
dates. The certainty, however, of a row in the
convention should Mrs. Livermore be kept out
by express order of the state committee led
the valiant thirteen bitter opponents of her
admission to a compromise. This very dan-
gerous woman had not meditated taking any
part in the proceedings, and readily agreed not
to say anything if her admission was unchal-
lenged.—Springfield Republican


68	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1881.


A WHOLE NATION MOURNING.

	A terrible blow has fallen upon the Am-
erican nation in the assassination and death
of its Chief Executive, President Garfield.
Weeks of prolonged suffering of the most in-
tense character, and anxiety and suspense for
the whole nation hovering alternately between
hope and fear as he, the victim of
the assassin, hovered between life and
death, constantly watching for the latest
news and praying earnestly that his life
might be spared, to his family and the whole
people. Never was there manifest a more
powerful element of sympathy and affection
from a great people than during the illness and
suffering of the late deceased President. And
now there is sincere mourning in all the land,
and everywhere are its emblems floating upon
the breeze.
	In Utah the people are as loyal in this respect
as anywhere else in the whole nation. The
feelings of this people are as tender towards the
departed dead, and their hearts are as full of
compassion for the living, who mourn the loss
of son, husband, and father, as any hearts are
capable of being, for none know better how to
sympathize.
	Memorial services were held in the large
Tabernacle, which was heavily draped in black,
and the whole congregation seemed bowed jn
humilation and mourning for the great and good
man departed and the heavy sorrow that has
fallen upon the entire country in which all alike
participate.
	It is a subject to call forth much thought as
well as feeling, but in the midst of all it should
be remembered God lives and holds the destinies
of nations in His hands.
	No President since the days of the immortal
Washington has ever been so sacredly enshrined
in the hearts of the whole people as James A.
Garfield.


THE CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Primary Fair of the Associations of Salt
Lake County was held in the Social Hall in this
city, and was open for exhibition five days, com-
mencing Thursday, Sept. 22, and continuing on
the 23d and 24th, and meeting with such excel-
lent success, was re-opened on Tuesday and
Wednesday, the 27th and 28th ult. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors, Mrs. Camilla
Cobb and Annie D. Watson, spared no pains to
make the affair as complete in every particular
and department as it could be made. The Pres-
idents of the several wards that had articles
from their respective Associations on exhibition
also lent a helping hand, by managing each her
own department, and thus facilitating the heavy
labor of Mrs. Clawson and her associates.

[Column 2]
	It would be utterly useless to attempt to men-
tion all the work of the little folks, and incon-
sistent under the circumstances to give names
or make comparisons, but there was much to be
admired and to arouse an ambition in others to
"go and do likewise."
	Every conceivable article of ornamentation
that could be made by little girls was there to
be seen in one or the other of the several spaces
allotted to the different wards. There were six-
teen quilts, of a variety of patterns, all well
made and nicely quilted. There were one or
two dresses very neatly made by girls about
thirteen years old; doll dresses by those much
younger, and aprons, pillow cases, and a few
other articles of this kind, lots of stockings of
home knitting, also mittens and dolls' stockings;
hoods for children, very handsome, crocheted of
wool, and one very elegant shawl made by a
child twelve years old.
	Almost innumerable mottoes, worked upon
perforated card-board in every form, wool, tarle-
tan and wax flowers in abundance; tidies of
every form and size, and of all available mate-
rials; several specimens of fine pillow lace and
ornamental embroidery, and work of all des-
criptions. Cocoons raised by the little girls, too,
of an excellent quality, which really deserve
special mention. Paintings on silk and wood
were also very creditable indeed.
	Then there was a department for cookery
where the "little women" displayed handsome
cakes, many of them frosted and ornamented,
pies, bread, butter, preseves, jellies, and so forth;
some of these articles were very "fair to look
upon," but as we were not permitted to taste,
one could not judge so well of their quality.
	There were vegetables of almost all kinds
which had been raised by the little boys, pota-
toes, corn, pop corn, turnips, -beets, squashes,
nearly every variety; and pea-nuts which were
really quite a curiosity to many. The boys had
sleds, book shelves, wagons, tiny cradles, and
clothes-horse and other such articles, and a pair
of shoes, the first shoe-making of some industri-
ous boy; there was ornamental plaster work too,
done by little boys, and many other things we
have not space to mention. Mrs. Clawson can-
not help but feel gratified with the success
of the Fair, and it has been so highly appreci-
ated by the people that it has been allotted space
in "The Utah Territorial Fair," to be held in
this city, commencing October 3d.
	The admittance to the Primary Fair was only
10 cts. for adults and 5 cts. for children, yet the
aggregate amount was considerable, and Mrs.
Clawson informs us that after paying the tithing
out of the funds, $50.00 has been donated to the
Logan Temple and the remainder reserved to
appropriate towards prizes for the coming exhibi-
tion another year.
	We would suggest to the children that next
year they exhibtt more needle work, plain and
ornamental, also darning, button-hole mak-
ing, and straw work, and also that
the little girls and boys both write essays
and poems; they will have a year to think
of it and we will offer now a suitable prize,
to any girl or boy under fifteen years of age who
will write the best original poem or essay; and
the decision to be made by five competent dis-
interested critics.
	Several persons have given prizes and render-
ed valuable aid to the commendable work of the
Primary Associations. President John Taylor
gave the use of the building to the Fair, and H.
B. Clawson, Esq., gave much assistance to the
ladies in getting up and carrying out the entire
arrangements.
	We trust the little folks will be encouraged
by the success of their work to persevere in
making and improving in all useful em-

[Column 3]
ployments. Industry is the road to wealth, and
to honor as well, and the children of Zion have
much to do and may they be able to do their
work well is my prayer.
	We tender our thanks to Mrs. Clawson, and
the ladies associated with her, for substantially
remembering the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in dis-
tributing the delicacies left from the Fair.
Many thanks for the same.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Pen Sketch of an Illustrious Woman will be
continued in our next.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG is visiting relatives and
gathering up genealogies at her old home in the
State of New York.

	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON, was in New York
when last heard from, but expected to visit
Hartford, Conn., shortly.

	MUCH matter we intended publishing is left
out to make room for particulars concerning the
President's death and burial.

	THERE will be a Primary Fair in Utah County
October 15th, under the supervision of Mrs.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors.

	THE Book for Primary Associations entitled
Questions and Answers, by Mrs. Eliza R. S.
Smith, will be ready for sale at Conference,

	THE October Conference will convene in the
large Tabernacle on Thursday morning, October
6th. There will no doubt be a very large "atten-
dance.

	THE Primary Conference of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday, Sept. 24th. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson,
presiding.

	THE Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday afternoon, Sept. 24. Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze, presiding.

	WE have had the pleasure of traveling through
a large part of Sanpete County recently in com-
pany with Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith, of this city,
and Mrs. Amelia H. Goldsbrough, of Nephi,
but shall not be able to furnish our readers with
an account of our visit and the meetings we at-
tended, as we have not the space this time. In
our next issue we expect to give all the best
points of our journey, what we saw and heard.

	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT left Salt Lake City,
en route for New York, on Monday morning,
Sept, 26, with the intention of studying under
Dr. Noyes, of Bellvue Hospital, who has made
her a very desirable proposition to instruct her
more fully in the use of the opthalmiscope for ex-
amining the interior of the eye, and also in the
adjusting of glasses in refractory cases of defec-
tive eyesight, two of the most difficult branches
in optics. Mrs. Pratt will be away about six
months.

	THE Utah Territorial Fair will open on Mon-
day, Oct. 3, at the same place formerly used for
that purpose, on West Temple Street, and will
connect with the Deseret Museum, which will
make it doubly interesting.  No pains has been
spared by the several committees to make this
Fair a successful one, and the awarding of special
prizes will be a noticeable feature. Everybody
should go to the Fair; no doubt it will be the
means of promoting home interests in every
department of labor, by stimulating the people
to renewed efforts in stock raising, agriculture,
inventing, home manufacture, and all that will
help develop the elements and resources of Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 69


DR. J. M. BERNHISEL.﻿

	Died at his residence in this city about 11:40
a. m. on Wednesday, September 28, 1881, Dr.
John M. Bernhisel. His disease is said to have
been intermittent fever, from which he had been
suffering only five days. The Doctor was born
June 23, 1799, at Sandy Hill, Pennsylavaina, but
united with the Church of Jesus Christ in the
State of New York, where he was then residing,
and engaged in the practise of his profession.
He belonged to what is known as the "old
school" class of physicians, but he held his own
peculiar views on the subjects of health and hy-
giene.
	Dr. Bernhisel was a true gentleman in every
sense of the word; a man of learning, versed in
literature, and one who ranked high in the medi-
cal profession.
	Deceased was a most intimate and very dear
friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom he
held in the highest reverence as a brother and
servant of God, and he knew, perhaps, more of
his home life than almost any other man, hav-
ing boarded in the family and attended upon
the household as family physician for several
years. He was true as steel to the interests of
the kingdom of God, and willing to endure all
things for the truth's sake. He was genial and
interesting in conversation, such a man as one
never tires of conversing with, for he had always
something to impart, was full of intelligence and
originality.
	Dr. Bernhisel was the first delegate to the
Congress of the United States from Utah, and
while in Washington made many staunch
friends, who still hold him in honorable remem-
brance. His days have been filled with useful-
ness, and he has passed away at peace with all
the world, in the full faith of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, to join the Prophet he so dearly loved and
hosts of Saints who have preceded him, to await
with them the glorious resurrection of the just.
	The funeral of Dr. Bernhisel was held on Fri-
day Sept. 30, in the 17th Ward Assembly Rooms,
of which we will publish particulars hereafter.
	May our Heavenly Father in His tender
mercy soften this sad bereavement to the sor-
rowing family, the widow and her children, and
may they be able to acknowledge the Divine
Hand even in this sore affliction, and rely upon
the arm of the Almighty for strength to endure
this trying ordeal, for though they have been
called to mourn a husband and father, he has
passed to his rest, and is now no doubt rejoicing
that he has gained the victory over death and
the grave.


GOVERNOR MANN DEAD.

	We regret to learn of the demise of Ex-
Governor S. A. Mann, of Utah, who died re-
cently, at Reno, Nevada, of dropsy, from which
he had been suffering for some time past. It
will be remembered that it was Governor Mann
who approved the bill granting suffrage to the
women of this Territory, and as a natural conse-
quence he has been held in high esteem by those
who appreciate political privileges. He deserves
to be honored and his name held in remem-
brance to the latest generations, for so excep-
tionally noble an act. He was a gentleman of
fine ability and generous impulses, and of bril-
liant attainments. He was well beloved and
greatly admired by those who had the pleasure
of his acquaintance, for he possessed genuine
nobility of heart and was highly endowed intel-
lectually. Whatever may have been his faults
or, failings (and none are without), he was the
friend and benefactor of woman, and as such we
should ever remember him. He certainly pos-
sessed extraordinary courage, when he dared to


do what was so unpopular, as to sanction the po-
litical rights of women.


RESOLUTIONS

Of Respect, to the memory of Sister M. Brim-
	hall, who died in Spanish Fork, Sept. 9th,
	1881; aged 15 years, 8 months and 17 days.

	Adopted by the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Spanish Fork, Sept. 12th, 1881.

	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has seen fit
in the dispensations of His Providence to call
from our midst our much beloved and respected
friend and sister, Prudence M. Brimhall.
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Y. L.
M. I. A. have sustained the loss of a valued
friend and co-worker, who had become endear-
ed to us by her faithfulness, genuine piety,
and gentle, unassuming deporment.
	Resolved, That we sincerely condole and sym-
pathize with her afflicted family in their bereave-
ment.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread
upon the record of the Society, and a copy be
sent to the Woman's Exponent, and our Sister's
sorrowing family.
	Resolutions of respect and condolence were
also adopted in the Sabbath School.
			MRS. MARY MORRISON, Prest.
			MRS. HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
﻿SOME DETAILS OF THE NATIONAL
CALAMITY.

	ELBERON, 19.—Everything seemed indicative
of a quiet night. At half-past 10, while Boyn-
ton was conversing at Elberon Hotel, a messen-
ger suddenly appeared and spoke to the doctor
in an undertone, and he immediately left the
table at which he was sitting and started on a
run for Francklyn Cottage. This movement
was a sequel to the representatives of the press
congregated at the hotel that something
unusual had occurred. But few moments
had elapsed when Mr. Warren Young, one of
the executive clerks, came to Elberon Hotel and
announced that the President was dead.
	Previous to his death, the only words spoken
by the President were that he had a severe pain
in his heart. It is supposed by the surgeons that
death was occasioned by clot blood formed in the
heart. Dr. Bliss was the first one notified of the
President's expression of pain, and upon enter-
ing the President's room at once saw that the
end was near.
	Members of the family were immediately
summoned to the bedside. All arrived and per-
fect quiet prevailed.
	Mrs. Garfield bore the trying ordeal with great
fortitude, and exhibited unprecedented courage.
She gave way to no paroxysms of grief, and
after death became evident, she quietly with-
drew to her own room. There she sat a heart-
stricken widow, full of grief, but with too much
courage to exhibit it to those about her. She
was laboring under a terrible strain, and despite
her efforts, tears flowed from her eyes and her
lips became drawn by her noble attempt to bear
the burden with which she had been afflicted.
Miss Mollie was greatly afflicted, and bursts of
tears flowed from the child's eyes, notwith-
standing her noble effort to follow the example
of her mother.
	The death scene was one never to be forgot-
ten. Perfect quiet prevailed, and there was not
a murmur heard while the President was sink-
ing. After death had been pronounced, the
body was properly arranged by Dr. S. A. Boyn-
ton.
	The ceremonies at Francklyn Cottage consist-
ed of Scripture reading, "Blessed are the dead
who die in the Lord," &c., followed by an elo-
quent and very affecting prayer by Rev. Charles
J. Young, of Long Branch.
	The body of the dead was dressed in the suit
President Garfield wore on Inauguration day, a
black, double-breasted frock coat, dark vest,
black trousers and black satin necktie. The
right hand lay by the side, and the left across
the heart. The casket was placed in the hall,
that the people who crowded the avenue might
see the remains. Two sentinels were posted at
the door, that but one person might pass at
time, and at 8.45 a.m. the file began to pass
through the hall. The casket was rich but sim-
ple, being covered with heavy black cloth, and
bearing silver mountings. The only decoration

[Column 2]
was a sago palm, extending upward from the
foot of the casket. As the file passed through,
the church bells tolled, and few could keep back
their tears. Those familiar with the President's
countenance could scarcely recognize him, so
pinched and haggard was the face, with its
drawn lines and changed contour. The solemn
silence was broken only by the sorrowful strokes
of the bells, the rustling of the awed people, and
occasional sobs.
	The train which was to bear the body and
mourners to Washington was drawn up before
the Francklyn Cottage at 9.30 a.m., engine and
cars being heavily draped. At the same time
there arrived Chief-Justice Waite,Secretary and
Mrs. Blaine, Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Sec-
retary and Mrs. Hunt, Postmaster-General
James and wife, Secretaries Lincoln and Kirk-
wood, and Attorney-General MacVeagh, and
the doors were closed to visitors. The casket
was placed in the same car that bore the suffer-
ing President to the shore, and the train moved
away at 10 a.m., reaching Elberon station at
10.12, where President Arthur and Gen. and
Mrs. Grant were taken on board. The railroad
was lined for half a mile with people, and as the
train swept by the men stood silent with bare
heads. The bell tolled, the draperies and half-
masted flags of the village fluttered in the breeze,
and Long Branch was deserted.
	One of those on the funeral train says that the
passage from Elberon to Washington was one
continued manifestation of sympathy and sor-
row. In the populous cities, in the smaller vil-
lages and even in the country through which
the mournful train passed, demonstrations of
sympathy were ever present. In the larger
cities multitudes of people assembled and stood
absolutely silent, with heads uncovered, as the
train passed by, while the tolling of bells, flags
flying at half-mast and the funeral drapery
which covered many buildings all added to the
solemnity of the scene. At numerous points
along the route beautiful floral offerings were to
be seen, and at several places the track was liter-
ally covered for a distance of more than 100
yards with ferns and flowers. Even in the
country, along the route of the railroad, there
was no lack of evidence of affectionate regard
and sympathy. Men, women and children col-
lected on the porticos of dwellings near the
track, at the crossings and on the embankments
commanding a near view of the passing train,
and with bowed and uncovered heads for a fleet-
ing instant, as the train rushed past, gave evi-
dence of their sorrow. Laborers in the fields
watched the coming of the train bearing the
dead President and with bared arms and uncov-
ered heads stood mute and sorrowful while the
funeral train passed. No incident worthy of note
occurred on board during the pasage, and at 4.35
p. m. the train slowly entered the depot, when
the casket was at once removed to the hearse in
waiting. The funeral party took seats in car-
riages, and under military escort the procession
at once moved toward the Capitol.
	A vast throng were assembled about the
depot, every avenue and approach being densely
packed with jostling, but in every instance quiet
and orderly citizens. A large force of police were
on duty, and the immediate approaches to the
depot were roped off and closed against all save
those participating in the ceremonies or who
held special cards of admission to the depot.
The military were drawn up against the east side
of Sixth street with the right resting on Penn-
sylvania avenue. Upon the opposite side of the
street nearest the depot was a long line of car-
riages, preceded by the hearse, whi[-]h was
drawn up directly at the main gate on the Sixth
street side. The hearse used was furnish-
ed by Undertaker Spears, of that city, and is
known as the centennial hearse, it having been
awarded the prize at the centennial exhibition.
It was draped in black of rich and heavy ma-
terial, wholly unrelieved by any other color, and
was drawn by six iron-gray horses whose trap-
pings were also draped in sombre black. Just
before the train entered the depot the platform
was cleared by the police, and the officers of the
army and navy to the number of 139 formed in
single rank upon the left, facing the train. As
the train slowly rolled into the depot every head
upon the platform was uncovered, and a still-
ness as of the grave pervaded the vast throng,
which for more than an hour had been patiently
waiting by the road side.
	Soon Mrs. Garfield, assisted by Secretary
Blaine, descended from the car, and taking his
arm upon her right and that of her son Harry
upon her left, she walked directly to the carriage
in waiting. Her face was completely concealed
by a heavy black veil which hung nearly to


[Column 1]
the ground, and whatever emotions she may
have experienced were sacred from the sight of
those who gazed upon her as the central figure
in the sad pageant. She entered the state car-
riage and was followed by her daughter, Mollie,
her son Harry, Mrs. Rockwell and Miss Rock-
well. The others of the Presidential party were
President Arthur, who leaned upon the arm of
of Senator Jones, of Nevada, Gen. Grant, Gen.
Swain and Mrs. Swain, Col. Rockwell, Col. Cor-
bin, Dr. Bliss, and daughter, Drs. Boynton,
Agnew and Hamilton, Attorney General Mac-
Veagh, his wife and two sons, Secretary and
Mrs. Hunt, Secretary and Mrs. Lincoln and
son, Postmaster General and Mrs. James and
Secretary Kirkwood.
	The first three carriages received those of the
party who did not accompany the procession to
the Capitol. After they had moved on a short
distance from the entrance,the casket appeared,
borne upon the shoulders of eight soldiers of the
2d artillery, detailed from the arsenal barracks.
On the right, in a single file and headed by
Adjt. Gen. Drum, were the officers of the army,
and on the left the officers of the navy, under
the lead of Rear Admiral Nichols, as the casket
was borne to the hearse, the Marine band sta-
tioned across the street played "Nearer My God
to Thee," while every head was bowed and
many eyes were dimmed. The sad strains of
the sweetly familiar hymn, the hush that had
fallen upon the scene and the grief mirrored on
thousands of faces marked the picture with
shadings that years cannot efface from the me-
mory of those who stood about the bier of the
dead President.
	After the casket had been placed in the hearse
the remainder of the party entered their car-
riages and took their places in the procession.
President Arthur's followed immediately after
the hearse, and in it were Mr. Arthur, Secretary
Blaine, Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Win-
dom. The carriage containing Mrs. Garfield and
daughter was driven down Pennsylvania Avenue
to Four and one-half street, and thence to the
dwelling of Attorney General McVeagh; whose
guest she was during her stay in the city.
	With muffled drums and solemn funeral d[-]ge
the procession moved slowly up the Avenue. A
dense mass lined the sidewalks all the way from
Sixth street to the east front of the Capitol, and
along this portion of the route the crowd was ap-
parently as great as upon the occasion of the late
President's inaugural procession. The compari-
son between the two occasions was doubtless in
many minds, and numerous expressions of sor-
row were heard at the sad contrast. As the pro-
cession moved up the Avenue scarcely a sound
was heard save that of the feet of moving men
and horses. Hats were removed and heads bowed
as by a common impulse of deep and unfeigned
grief.
	At the east front of the capitol building a vast
assemblage had congregated to view the funeral
cortege. At the foot of the steps there was a
double file of senators and representatives head-
ed by their officers, waiting in respectful silence
to escort the remains into the rotunda. At pre-
cisely 5.10 p.m. the head of the sad procession
moving around the south side of the capitol, ar-
rived at the east front, the arms of the military
being reversed and the bands playing a dead
march. The order was then given to carry
arms and the troops came to a front face, while
to a muffled beat of the drums the hearse and
its attendant train of carriages drew slowly up
in front of the escort. A hush came over the
multitude and heads were reverently uncovered
as the casket was carefully lifted from the
hearse. The officers of the army and navy drew
up in parallel lines on either side of the hearse
and the marine band played again "Nearer My
God to Thee," as with solemn tread the re-
mains of President Garfield were borne into the
rotunda and placed upon the catafalque, the
Senators and Representatives preceding and
ranging themselves on each side of the dais.
Close behind the casket walked President Ar-
thur and Secretary Blaine, who were followed
by Chief Justice Waite and Secretary Windom,
General Grant and Secretary Hunt, Secretary
Lincoln and Attorney General MacVeagh, Sec-
retary Kirkwood and Postmaster-General James,
Col. Rockwell and Gen. Swain and Col. Corbin
and Private Secretary Brown.
	At 5.25 p. m. the lid of the casket was opened
and the face of the late President was exposed
to view. Noiselessly President Arthur and Sec-
retary Blaine approached and gazed upon the
face of the dead, and then slowly and sadly
passed out of the hall. A line was formed by
Sergeant-at-Arms Bright, and one by one those
present advanced and glanced at the emaciated

[Column 2]
and discolored face. The public at large were
then admitted, and hundreds of persons testified
by their reverential conduct and mournful coun-
tenances the sorrow which they experienced in
looking upon the features of their murdered
president.
	The body lay in state day and night until
Friday evening. A detail of 40 members of the
Army of the Cumberland tendered their ser-
vices to act as a guard of honor.
	As the shadows of night began to fall, the vast
dome of the Capitol was illuminated and the dim
light, falling upon the mournful drapings of
the rotunda and upon the still face of the
dead President served but to heighten the
solemnity.
	At 11:20 two closed carriages drove to the esat
lower entrance of the Senate wing, and the
occupants alighted, and passed up the private
stairs to the Vice-President's room. All the
corridors and passage ways upon the main floor
of the Senate were quickly barred to all callers,
and instructions were given by the sereant-at-
arms, to employees and the captain of police on
duty, to keep themselves hidden in the recess
of the windows and doors while Mrs. Garfield
passed through to the rotunda. The rotunda
was entirely cleared, the guard of honor retiring
from view for a time. In a few minutes the
little procession emerged from the Vice-Presi-
dent's room and passed around through the
silent and deserted main passage way of the
building. Sergeant-at-arms Bright Lead-
ing. Then followed Mrs. Garfield, leaning on
the arm of General Swain; Harry Garfield,
Mollie and Miss Rockwell, Colonel and Mrs.
Rockwell and Attorney General MacVeagh and
Mrs. Swain. Not a sound was heard, save foot-
steps on the floor, as the little company entered
in sombre garments of deepest mourning, passed
silently on to mingle their tears and prayers and
pay the last earthly tribute over the casket which
sealed from view the form and features of the
dead and loved husband, father and friend.
After remaining about twenty minutes in the
rotunda they returned quietly and with the same
privacy that marked their entrance, and passing
through to the Senate wing, entered the carriage
and returned to the residence of the attorney
general.
	General Sheridan was selected as one of the
guards of honor to accompany the remains of
the late President of the United States from
the national Capitol, to Cleveland, Ohio, and to
continue with them until they were consigned to
their final resting place.
	About 12 o'clock, midnight, the stream of peo-
ple who visited the capitol to take a last glance
at the casket which contained the remains of
President Garfield was sensibly diminished, and
as the night wore on it ceased almost entirely.
A few groups of persons passed through the ro-
tunda after that hour but it was not until day-
light that the crowd augmented to any con-
siderable extent.
	The doors of the rotunda were closed at 10.50
and all persons except the sergeant-at-arms,
their assistants and the guard of honor were
obliged to leave the hall.
	The floral offerings had been rearranged, the
wreath, of Queen Victoria had a central position.
On either side were great floral crosses and a
magnificent floral pillow at their base, inscribed
"Our Martyred President," "The Gates Ajar,"
"Knights of Malta" and "Garfield Union Vete-
rans," all beautiful offerings. The whole ap-
pearance of the catafalque was tasteful and ele-
gant.
	Hundreds of bouquets were brought. One
from Richmond was a large white floral angel
about the size of a child five years old holding
a silver trumpet. It was suspended over
the coffin. This was the gift of James Worm-
ley, the colored hotel keeper.
	At 1.45 o'clock, the doors of the rotunda were
opened. The first section to arrive was Knights
Templars, Beauzanut Commandery of Balti-
more. They entered in full regalia, but did not
remain in the hall, simply passing around the
catafalque in double file. Four of their number,
Sir Knight Stevens, Lawton, Bieler and Jen-
nings, bore floral offerings in the shape of an im-
mense maltese cross, which was reverently
placed at the head of the dais.
	At 2.10, members of the Army of the Cum-
berland filed in by the door leading from the
Senate Chamber,and took the seats reserved for
them. Immediately after the doors were thrown
open to all holders of tickets. In 10 minutes
the chairs set apart for the general public were
completely filled. Soon members of the diplo-
matic corps arrived and were ushered to seats re-
served for them. The military portion of the

[Column 3]
procession, which escorted the remains to the
depot, formed in front, and facing the east front
of the Capitol, with the district military hold-
ing the right of the line.
	The crush for admittance into the Capitol re-
sulted in breaking down the ropes placed to re-
strain the crowd, and before they were replaced
many without tickets obtained an entrance.
The seats in the rotunda were soon filled and
further admittance denied. The entrance of
President Arthur, accompanied by Gen. Grant,
caused nearly the whole audience to rise in or-
der to get a good look at them. They advanced
slowly to their respective seats in the front row,
next to that of the cabinet. Arthur was grave
and dignified, his tall figure dwarfing that of
Grant. The latter wore his usual fixed expres-
sion. Ex-President Hayes entered soon after
and took a seat near Grant. The silence of the
crowded rotunda was unbroken except by the
rustling of ladies' fans. Arthur, in entering,
leaned upon the arm of Secretary Blaine. Im-
mediately after followed by ex-Prest. Hayes,
Secretary and Mrs. Windom, Secretary and Mrs.
Lincoln, Secretary and Mrs. Hunt, Attorney
General and Mrs. MacVeagh, Secretary Kirk-
wood and Postmaster-General James. Mrs.
Garfield and the immediate family were not
present at the ceremonies. There was some
little confusion in seating the diplomatic corps,
representatives of the army and navy, senators
and members of the House of Representatives,
occasioned by a change on the part of some one
in charge of the arrangement in not reserving a
sufficient number of seats. At 3 o'clock every
seat was filled and all available standing room
occupied. The services were opened by Rev.
Dr: Powers promptly at 3 p.m. He ascended
the dais, and briefly announced the opening
hymn, "Asleep in Jesus, blessed sleep," which
was rendered by a chorus of fifty voices.
	Rev. Dr. Rankin ascended the platform at the
head of the catafalque and read, in a clear, dis-
tinct voice, the following selections of scriptures:
"The Lord reigneth: the floods have lifted up
their voice, the Lord on high is mightier than
the voice of many waters; clouds and darkness
are around about him, righteousness and judg-
ment are the habitation of his throne; by him
kings reign and princes decree justice; he chang-
eth times and seasons; he removeth kings and
setteth up kings, for there is no power but of
God. The powers that be, are ordained of God.
Whosoever, therefore, resisteth the power, re-
sisteth the ordinance of God, and by that resist-
ance shall receive to themselves damnation,"
and some passages from St. John and the Gos-
pels with exceeding effect.
	Rev. Dr. Isaac Everett then offered prayer.
He spoke in a clear but low tone, and with much
evidence of deep feeling. As the closing words
of the prayer died away, the Rev. F. D. Power,
of Vermont Avenue Christian Church, of which
President Garfield was a member, delivered a
feeling address. He spoke in a clear voice and
was distinctly heard in every portion of the
hall.
	At the conclusion of Dr. Powers' address, Rev.
J. G. Butler offered a prayer. The reverend
gentleman, in conclusion, paid an eloquent and
touching tribute to Mrs. Garfield, referring to
the noble and Christian spirit which she had
exhibited in her hour of sorrow and tribulation
and exhorted her to look to God in the days of
her affliction. He invoked divine blessings on the
fatherless children, that the sons should, under
the benediction of God, grow up to noble man-
hood, and that the bereaved daughter might
rise into glorious womanhood and live to be a
comfort to her widowed mother. He besought
God to have pity on the dear old mother over
the mountains, waiting for the dead body of her
darling son, now that she was old and gray
haired.
	The funeral ceremonies were concluded at
about 4 p. m., when the casket was at once
removed to the hearse, in waiting at the east
front of the Capitol. A few minutes later the
procession marched through. A military escort
preceded the hearse, which was followed by a
long line of carriages, two abreast. The military
marched up the avenue to the depot and dis-
persed, and the casket was taken at once to the
train in waiting at the Baltimore and Potomac
depot. The sidewalks of the avenue at and
intersecting the street corners were thronged
with thousands of spectators.
	Mrs. Garfield was taken on board the train
without attracting any attention. The funeral
train was the same used on the trip from Long
Branch with two additional cars. The first was
a baggage car and the second was occupied by
Mrs. Garfield, her daughter and son, Mrs. Reed,


[Column 1]
General Swain, Colonel Rockwell, Dr. Boynton,
Stanley Brown, Warren Young and Mr. Judd.
The third carried members of the cabinet and
their wives, ex-President Hayes, Justices of the
Supreme Court and S. A. Brown, chief clerk of
the state department. Upon the fourth car
were General Sherman and Generals Hancock,
Meigs, Drum and Sacket, Admiral Porter, Vice-
Admiral Rowan, Commodore English, Surgeon-
General Wales and Pay Director Tooker. The
fifth car bore the remains of the President and
a military guard composed of six soldiers and a
sergeant, from the Second Artilery. 
	The funeral train arrived in Ceveland at 1:12.
It was met by an immense concourse. There
was no confusion. The ladies took carriages.
Mrs. Garfield was supported by Secretary Blaine,
and Harry Garfield was the guest of Jas. Mason.
Mother Garfield and other relatives were at the
house of Gen. Sheldon. The body was taken
from the car by a detachment of the regular
army in uniform, and borne to a special hearse,
followed by a distinguished guard of honor, Gen-
erals Sherman, Sheridau, Hancock, Dunn,
Meigs and naval officers, the Supreme Court,
Cabinet, Governor Foster and staff, and a large
number of army and navy troops. The route
takes down Euclid avenue, and the remains
were placed without ceremony in the pavillion
to lie in state in a bed of flowers.
	The catafalque on which Garfield's remains
laid in state occupied the centre of Monu-
mental Park and was imposing in architecture
and dimensions. A platform was erected
five feet six inches above the ground, approach-
ed by a gentle incline from the east and west.
Upon this square was a pavillon, covered by
a canopy, at the apex of which was a large
globe, upon which stood the figure of an
angel represented in the attitude of blessing,
the hands extended in sorrow and benedictive
love over the mourning throng below. Its
wings were extended, the snowy tips approach-
ing above. Dimensions of pavilion—main part,
45 feet square; on each of the four sides an open
arch, 24 feet wide and 30 feet high; the canopy
tapered to an apex 72 feet above the ground;
globe nearly five feet in diameter; statue, 24 feet
in height, its wing tips being at a total altitude
of 96 feet above the ground. The keystone of
each arch was an eagle decorated with the
emblem of mourning. The four columns of the
angles of the pavilion were surmounted by
minarets 22 feet high, fashioned of festooned
flags. Projecting from each corner was a
magnificent banner. Around the entire pavilion
was a decorated cornice. The whole struc-
ture was profusely festooned with black and
white drapery blended with artistic simplicity.
Florists impoverished their greenhouses in
furnishing floral decorations. These were
most elaborate. Laurel wreaths filled up the
niches in the structure. Draped cannons were
at each corner of the platform. imposing
projections were constructed at the base for
this purpose. The casket containing the re-
mains was placed in the centre of this
pavilion, upon a slight elevation and guarded by
a force of soldiery. 
	The casket was placed by pall bearers on the
dais underneath the canopy supported by four
gilt Egyptian columns. On account of the feel-
ings of the widow the face was not exposed,
but instead was placed an admirable copy of a
likeness taken by J. T. Ryder on Garfield's re-
turn from the Chicago Convention, a most
natural portrait. On the shelves of the pavilion
on either side were a multitude of floral offerings,
conspicuous among which were a cross from
Erie Commandery Knights Templars, inscribed
in flowerets, "Garfield," a unique monogram
emblem with an inscription in flowers, "Detta
Ipsilon fraternity to the memory of our brother;"
a floral piece surmounted by a dove with the seal
of Cincinnati wrought in blossoms, "Juiaia Ju-
vant;" a piece from Washington, in elaborate
design representing the gates ajar; an open book
with "God reigns," in roses; a broken column
from Washington, a cross and a crown; an ex-
quisite piece from Cincinnati; representing a
field, a broken wheel, a sheaf of wheat and the
motto, "The harvest is over;" a floral standing
scroll surmounted by a white dove; a floral pillow,
with "Rest in Peace," similarly wrought; a
magnificent floral representation of a ship
stranded and dismantled; an open book with a
cross and dove; a pillow surmounted by a white
dove, and "Our Martyred President," inscribed;
two handsome lyres; another broken column; two
shields; another anchor and a cross, at the base
of which is the inscription, "Gone, but not for-
gotten;" a scroll with "Peace" worked in buds;
a lyre, pillow and shields; a broken column, with

[Column 2]
a card marked, "With the Sympathies of the
Washington Council, True United Americans;"
a crown over a pillow; a floral urn; a broken col-
umn of tube roses, from Joseph Perkins; an
urn; a large dove perching upon an anchor and
a crown; a large broken column on a pedestal; an
open book, inscribed, "Thy Will Be Done;" a
lyre and laurel wreath; a wheat field with wheat
in the corner, and the inscription, "Gathered;"
a column as a headstone of a grave, with the
inscription, "Garfield, a Bearer to Posterity;" a
large green cross with a wreath: an anchor,
chain and a motto, "Rest in Peace;" a floral rep-
resentation of the gates ajar, and a withered,
broken column. Because the pavilion decorations
were not entirely finished, none outside of the
committee were admitted to the pavilion during
the night. According to the wish of the widow,
the casket was not opened, and when the
lines were opened to the public, spectators
had to be content with observing the casket
with the portrait at the head, and the inscrip-
tion:

"Life's race well run,
Life's work well done,
Life's crown well won;
Now comes rest."

	The morning opened cloudy, but by 8 o'clock
the sky was cloudless and the day a perfect one
throughout. The streets were thronged with
surging crowds. 
	It seemed as if Cleveland was in the cen-
tre of the world. Every individual that
contributed to compose the largest crowd that
was probably ever assembled in Ohio, seemed to
feel this. From the great public square in the
central part of the city to the hills and solemn
dales of Lakeview Cemetery, a distance of six
miles, there was a continuous wall of people on
either side. The funeral train passed nearly
the whole way along that magnificent broad and
grand avenue which the great American travel-
er, Bayard Taylor, pronounced the finest in the
world. The abodes of luxury and wealth on
either side appeared heavily draped in the habili-
ments of mourning. A favorite view which
Garfield took of humanity was that of the great
Pascal. He was often heard by his friends to
compare the nation to one colossal man. Were
he alive again, and could he have seen crape
on the door-posts of the entire country that day,
he would have been better satisfied with the
truth of his favorite illustration than ever
before. He would have seen the colossal man
with uncovered head, bent in tears and inconsol-
able in his grief. The modest unassuming wife
of the President desired no display, but her dead
husband is glorious now and famed," and the
people must give proper expression to their great
grief. She remained away as long as possible
from the park devoted to the obsequies, and her
grief seemed only aggravated by what was done
there. A mass of anxious people sixteen years
ago in the same place beheld the form of the
martyr Lincoln. That was a time of excite-
ment and of war almost, and it took but a spark
to ignite a great fire. But the crowd of that day,
while it was far greater than ever before in the
city, was docile and solemn and seemed only
desirous of contributing its small mite toward
properly burying a dead hero in whom it had
more than a passing interest. 
	Promptly at 10:30 the ceremonies at the pa-
vilion began. The immediate members of the
family and near relatives and friends took seats
about the casket, and at each corner was sta-
tioned a member of the Cleveland Grays, each of
whom stood like a statue during the entire pro-
gramme. The committee members about the
pavilion were almost cloaked in crape, their
draping being very heavy. The exercises opened
by the singing by the Cleveland Vocal Society
of the "Funeral Hymn," by Beethoven, as
follows:
Thou are gone to the grave, but we will not deplore
		thee,
	Tho sorrow and darkness encompass the tomb,
The Savior has passed thro' its portal before thee,
	And the lamp of His love is thy light thro' the gloom.

	Passages from the Scripture were then read
by the Right Rev. Bishop Bedell, of the Episco-
pal diocese of Ohio:
	"Man that is born of a woman is of few days,
and full of trouble.
	"He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut
down: the fleeth also as a shadow, and continu-
eth not," etc.
	The Rev. Ross C. Houghton, pastor of the
First M. E. Church, then offered up prayer. 
	At this point the vocal society sang, "To Thee,
Oh Lord, I yield my Spirit," etc. Rev. Isaac

[Column 3]
Everett, of Cincinnati, then delivered an elo-
quent address, taking for his text, II Chronicles,
xxxiii, 23, 27. This is a time of mourning that
has no parallel in the history of the world. 
Death is constantly occurring, and every day,
and every hour and almost every moment, some
life expires, and somewhere there are broken
hearts and desolation, but we have to adopt mor-
tality, and we stay a moment and drop a tear
and away again to excitements and ambitions
and forget it all. A man is called that plunges
a large community in mourning, and sometimes
whole nations mourn the loss of a king, or a
wise statesman, or a friend, or a great philoso-
pher, or philanthropist, or a martyr, who has
risked his life on the altar of truth and won for
himself an anxious immortality among the sons
of men; but there was never a mourning in all
the world like unto this mourning. I am not
speaking extravagantly when I say it far surpas-
ses the result of calculation carefully made from
such data as is found that certainly not less than
300,000,000 of the human race shared in the sor-
row and lamentations that belong to this occa-
sion here to-day. Its piercing chill has extend-
ed itself into every home in all this land, and
into every heart, and that has projected itself
over vast seas and oceans into distant lands, and
awakened the most sincere and profound sym-
pathy with us in the hearts of good people of all
nations and among all people. 
	The whole discourse was eloquent and ex-
pressive and was listened to with most earnest
attention. 
	The Rev. Jabez Hall then read President
Garfield's favorite hymn, which was beautifully
rendered by the vocal society, beginning:

"Hot reapers of life's harvest,
	Why stand with rusted blade,
Until the night draws round thee
	And day begins to fade?"

	President Hinsdale, of Hyrum College, made
a short and impressive prayer. Dr. Chas. T.
Pomeroy delivered the final benediction. Then
the Washington Marine Band played "Nearer
my God to Thee."
	The funeral procession moved from Monu-
mental Park at 11.53 o'clock. The time occu-
pied in moving the casket from the pavilion to
the funeral car was about 15 minutes. A corps
of United States marines from the steamer
Michigan formed parallel lines from the east
side of the pavilion to the the east entrance to the
park, through which the casket was borne on
the shoulders of United States artillerymen,
under the command of Lieutenant Weaver to
the funeral car, followed by mourners, who took
seats in the carriage. Grandma Garfield bore the
services remarkably well, as did also the widow
of the President. The only incident which oc-
curred at the pavilion was the request of Grand-
ma Garfield for a drink of water. Many people
construed this as an indication that the old lady
was faint, but such was not the case.
	Re-entering their carriages, the mourners
drove hurriedly back to avoid another shower
which threatened. Tke military and Masonic
escort left the cemetery in the same order in
which they entered, and kept in line until the
catafalque was reached, where they were dis-
missed. General Smith, adjutant-general of the
State, will furnish a guard as long as the body
remains in the vault. The sexton thinks it will
be but a few days until the final interment takes
place. Mrs. Garfield, while at the cemetery,
said she did not think there was sufficient
time to prepare the grave for interment,
and the ca[---]t was therefore placed in a
vault at the cemetery. At 10 o'clock in the
morning there were 5,000 on the ground; at 12
o'clock the Fourteenth Ohio National Guard,
500 in number, arrived and cleared the grounds
of all strangers, and no one was allowed to en-
ter until the funeral party arrived. At the
vault were Company D, of the Fourteenth Ohio
N. G., and a number of ladies engaged in trim-
ming the dais and draping the vault in deep
black crape. The dais used to lay the coffin on
in the vault was covered with velvet, trimmed
with black broadcloth and deep black fringe.
The pathway from the carriageway, where the
cortege stepped into the vault was covered with
ceder-laid lawn, neatly sewed together. On the
top of this was scattered white flowers, immor-
telles, tuberoses, etc.; right in front of the gate
at the emtrance to the vault was spread a large
piece of carpet covered with tuberoses and other
white flowers. This is covered over with a
canopy of deep black broadcloth. Just outside
the vault, at the gate, there was a crown of ele-
gant white flowers placed with the motto "dead,
but not forgotten." It was from the Bolivian
delegation.


70	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 71


72	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


After the procession had departed toward the
cemetery in the afternoon,an order was given the
guards to admit all who desired into the pavilion,
and they passed through the building, casting
lingering glances at the deserted bier. The
scene was one of the most expressive of the
entire day. Despite the rain fall which
occurred between 3 and 4 o'clock, people filed
in unprotected. Not less than 30,000 souls paid
this unusual tribute to the glory of the dead
President.


<i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r="">[Column 1]
R. S. Y. L. M. I. A.<i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r=""><i yii="" ra="" ul="" gu<="" l.="" 3l="" l="" a.="" and="" reports,="" primary="" il!="" tiht="" i="" bora="" we,="" could,="" fiiake="" them="" lighter,="" would="" not="" be;="" so="" weary,="" &c-="" mrs.="" presendia="" h.="" kimball,="" in="" her="" remarks,-="" thought-we="" were="" living="" in'a="" curious="" day;="" ever="" since,="" this="" chiirch="" had="" been="" organized="" w.e="" a="" peculiar="" time.="" we="" have="" called,="" .upon="" to="" lose="" the="" president="" of="" church="" by="" assassin’s="" “handy="" know;="" how-="" sympathize="" with="" -the="" nation="" for="" dur="" prophet="" was="" 'slain.="" hope="" and!="" pray="" that="" god="" will="" soften="" heart="" arthup="" toward="" ibis="" people,-="" all="" things="" may.="" work="" together="" good="" the.="" whole="" human="" fam-="" ily,="" &c.="" ’="" thvs="" emi-anbual="" relief="" society="" -conference="" '1="" m;="" wt1:wilcox="" expressed="" aher‘interest="" of!salt;lsake-stake="" wasr-held-in="" the-14th="" ward-ffi="" tlfttthejwork="" sisters;="" feltthebe'.eonfer-="" assembly="" rooms="" in.="" this1="" city="" friday,'="" sbpt.'23,="" -commencing="" at.="" ten.="" o-’clock,="" m.="" isabella="" -horne="" presiding7.-="" -="" 'after="" usual="" exercises="" singing-="" prayer,="" minutes="" last="" quarterly="" conference="" read,="" followed="" remarks="" from-="" pfes.="" 31..="" i.="" horne="" upon="" du-="" ties'="" labors="" jthe="" sisters="" improving..="" themselves="" helping="" great="" w.ork="" latter="" days,="" much="" good,="" counsel="" 'instruction.-="" 4="" '“.counselorelmina="" si'tbylorexhorted="" 'the="" sisters-most="" earnestly="" he.="" alive="" tothejimpor-="" tance="" in,which="" theyaaff="" enlisted.="" gave="" a-glowing="" :description="" iof="" ;ladies’="" she="" 'had="" recently="" attended="" bear="" lake="" stake'and="" diligence="" 6t="" locality;="" gav"?)hie="" 'good="" timely="" in-:="" struction,="" sectaries,="" urgd="" tbem="" jences="" ivjsre="" the,="" places="" where,="" wp.="" received="" in-="" structions="" regard="" special="" departments="" assisting="" build="" up="" kingdom="" theearth.-="" '="" 3irs.="" elizabeth="" howard="" 'urged="" greater="" diligence'in'="" spmtuat="" duties,="" make="" ore="" progress="" 'that,="" pertains="" [="" higher,="" life.="" exhorted="" them;="" to;-uiliy"="" meekness="" beware.="" proud="" haughty="" spirit.<;,="" --h;="" mra.r="" ii.="" spoke="" very="" 'forcibly="" hnd="" eloquently="" .the="" great'events="" now="" tak-="" ing="" place="" this,="" nation,="" said="" lord="" bnng.about.his.="" purposes="" no="" matter="" whorpjes.="" referred="" prophecies="" joseph="" .smith,="" 'all="" world="" -would="" be="" against="" its;="" read="" j?="" some="" paragraphs="" frdiii="" book="" "of="" doctrine="" ?="" covenant,and="" advised="" tb,r6ad="" tne;p="" rpwplutmno-="" morln="" 1..="" prompt="" ppjfrect.="" making="" out="" reports.="" ;="" b="" these="" revelations;-="" madc="" further="" interesting="" re-="" ...="" .="" 1="" z="" r="" il="" -1="" 11.="" fl="" w="" nlrn'="" nnnn="" +="" v,="" rl="" spoke,="" too="" changes="" trans-="" piring'in="" thfe,’atrth="" among="" nations,="" thought="" it,="" should="" inspire="" saints="" zeal="" -iv="" rie="" perforn?ancc.="" all-good="" works;="" t.many="" .other="" $htngsv="" 8i;="" alter="" singing="" .and="" prayermeeting="" adjourned="" until="" two'o’clock="" p.falm="" '-’afterhopn="" sessibn:="" y="" after="" usual’,opening="" marks'upon="" other="" subjects.!="" mary="" a-freeze="" thought-'there="" was'="" force="" words="" “be="" weary="" well-="" doing,”.and.entreated,the="" sit’crs'="" live="" every="" known="" .duty,="" foreyery.one="" must="" answer="" himselff="" or="" herself,="" power.can="" .take="" away="" our="" reward="" if1="" pi'ove="" faithful.="" cannont:="" he-="" often="" exercises,="" .treasiirer’s="" ‘report'="" stake="" ,j="" thoiight="" sisters’="" meetibgs,‘and="" wdufd="" organization="" k="" s’,="" read.="" and.yhccepted..="" h="" :glad="" attenpthem="" oftener.,="" hp="" bathsheba="" wi.="" smith="" .then="" made,="" few="" tn,r=""> AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Conference
of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms in this city Friday, Sept. 23,
commencing at ten o'clock, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the minutes of the last
Quarterly Conference were read, followed by
remarks from Pres. M. I. Horne upon the du-
ties and labors of the sisters in improving
themselves and helping in the great work of
the latter days, and much good counsel and
instruction.
	Counselor Elmina S. Taylor exhorted the
sisters most earnestly to be alive to the impor-
tance of the work in which they had enlisted.
Gave a glowing description of the Ladies'
Conference she had recently attended in Bear
Lake Stake, and the diligence of the sisters in
that locality; gave some good and timely in-
struction to the secretaries, and urged them to
be prompt and correct in making out reports.
She spoke, too, of the great changes now trans-
piring in the earth and among the nations, and
thought it should inspire the Saints with zeal
in the performance of all good works; and said
many other good things.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until two o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, the Treasurer's report of the Stake
organization of R. S. was read and accepted.
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith then made a few
suggestive and encouraging remarks.
	Mrs. Phebe Woodruff exhorted the sisters to
so arrange their household matters they might
have time to attend these meetings, which
would help to educate them, and give them
spiritual strength; said, "let us be careful to
perform the smallest duties in our daily lives."
Spoke of the work to be done in Temples for
the living and the dead.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said this is an event-
ful time; there is much to be done by all. It
is refreshing to witness the zeal manifested by
the people of Sanpete County in helping to
build the Temple at Manti. She had lately
visited the Woman's Conference at Tooele;
there were large congregations, many brethren
attended the meetings and seemed to enjoy
them. She then related a very interesting cir-
cumstance about a Peace Conference held in
London about forty years ago. If we act well
our part we have nothing to fear. There never
was a time when there was such universal
mourning as there is now in this nation. Presi-
dent Garfield was not shot down from personal
spite, it was an attack upon the government,
and on all governments. The "Doctrine and
Covenants" says, "Pray for the leaders of the
government;" I think we should all pray for
them, that they may act wisely and peacefully.
I pray God to bless President Arthur and his
Cabinet, that they may rule in righteousness,
and that we as a people may be able to live in
righteousness and peace.
	Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood said: We are a
part of the great American nation, and if our
prayers are offered up in a right manner they
will tend to good; if we are humble the Lord
will help us. If we could only understand we
are a great spoke in the wheel of government.
If we could learn to systematize our many la[-]

[Column 2]
bors we could make them lighter, and we would
not be so weary, &c.
	Mrs. Presendia H. Kimball, in her remarks,
thought we were living in a curious day; ever
since this Church had been organized we had
been living in a peculiar time. We have been
called upon to lose the President of the Church
by the assassin's hand, and we know how to
sympathize with the nation, for our Prophet
was slain. I hope and pray that God will
soften the heart of President Arthur towards
this people, and that all things may work
together for good for the whole human fam-
ily, &c.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox expressed her interest
in the work of the sisters; felt these confer-
ences were the places where we received in-
structions in regard to the special departments
of work in assisting to build up the kingdom
of God upon the earth.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Howard urged the sisters to
greater diligence in spiritual duties, and to
make more progress in all that pertains to a
higher life. Exhorted them to humility and
meekness, and to beware of a proud and
haughty spirit.
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne spoke very forcibly
and eloquently upon the great events now tak-
ing place in this nation, and said the Lord will
bring about His purposes no matter who rules.
Referred to the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
that all the world would be against us; read
some paragraphs from the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants and advised the sisters to read
these revelations; made further interesting re-
marks upon this and other subjects.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze thought there was
much force in the words "be not weary in well-
doing," and entreated the sisters to live up to
every known duty, for every one must answer
for himself or herself, and no power can take
away our reward if we prove faithful.
	President A. M. Cannon said he often
thought of the sisters' meetings, and would be
glad to attend them oftener. He had been
much pleased with the children's Primary Fair,
thought it would result in much good. Said,
"As I heard Sister Horne read the word of the
Lord to us, I thought mothers should prompt
their children to noble acts, and especially to
be honest and upright in every act of their
lives." Exhorted mothers to make such im-
pressions upon the little ones as would be last-
ing, and counsel girls in regard to marriage,
that they might not degrade themselves by
allying themselves to those not in the covenant,
but seek to keep the first estate by being
faithful; made many excellent remarks upon
this subject. Was much gratified to see the
improvement being made among the good of
this people; the line was being drawn by our-
selves.
	Some special business was transacted, and
Pres. M. I. Horne reminded the sisters of the
responsibility resting upon them in regard to
storing up grain and purchasing all they could
with the money they had now on hand; also to
recollect the silk industry, and try to influence
as many as possible to take hold of this em-
ployment. Said Sister Woodruff had sug-
gested that we make a little carpeting in each
society for the Logan Temple. Conference
was then adjourned until December next.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by President
A. M. Cannon.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

MEDOWVILLE.

	The Primary Association held their Quar-
terly Conference Saturday, September 10, 1881.
The exercises consisted of selections, dialogues,
recitations and songs. A dialogue was spoken
by three little girls, one aged nine years, who
was the author of it. After these exercises,
there was an exhibition of the things that the

[Column 3]
children had made for the Paris Fair, which
consisted of scarfs, tidies, mottoes, wool flowers,
chair cushions and stockings; all were very
nice, as our Association is small.
		MARGARET J. ELDREDGE, Sec'y.


AN order for a bas-relief bust of the late
Dean Stanley has been given by her Majesty
the Queen to Miss Grant, the dean's niece.

	THE "father" of the English House of
Commons is Mr. Christopher Talbot, who has
sat continuously for Glamorganshire since 1830.

	BERNE, Sept. 12.—A land-slip occurred last
evening near the village of Elm in the canton
of Glarus. Two hundred persons were killed
and thirty houses destroyed.

	GEROME's latest picture represents Raphael
admiring from a scaffolding Michael Angelo's
frescoes on the ceiling of the Sistine chapel.
The perspective is said to be something won-
derful.

	YOUNG Mr. Hoar is a big boy now, but he
should think of his mother when tempted to
compare Mrs. Mary A. Livermore with a trained
monkey. A man of the people, now mourned
by the wide world, never forgot to pay respect
to his mother and to women. Let it be remem-
bered that this excellent woman who helped
represent the town of Melrose in yesterday's
republican convention at Worcester has done
more to serve the republican party than the
son of Judge Hoar, of Concord. More, too,
than Mr. Henry Cabot Lodge of Nahant.—Ex.

	GOVERNMENT APPOINTMENT OF A LADY IN
MADRAS.—The Calcutta correspondent of the
Times says: It has been reserved for Madras,
the so-called benighted Presidency, to be the
first to recognize the claims of women to im-
portant official positions. The Gazette an-
nounces the appointment of a lady, Miss Pog-
son, to be meteorological reporter to the Gov-
ernment of that Presidency. Miss Pogson has
for some years discharged with great ability
the duties of Assistant Government Astrono-
mer.—Ex.


A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt, and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Department for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods; Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

