VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1881.	NO. 7


TO MY FRIEND.

Into my bosom dropped a star,
From out the Heaven's vast firmament,
And there so pure and bright it lay,
I scarce believed to me 'twas sent.
I clasped it close with wild delight,
I bathed its crimson rays with dew,
I wondered much, for love was blind,
But now I know, dear friend, 'twas you.

Into my bosom breathed a song,
From spheres celestial, pure and clear,
Its harmonies my soul entranced,
And life stood still its strains to hear.
My saddened heart it filled with joy,
Breathed o'er my spirit strength anew,
I wondered much, for love was dumb,
But now I know, sweet friend, 'twas you.

Into my bosom crept a flower,
Entwined around my heart to kiss,
Its glorious beauty charmed my eyes,
Its fragrance steeped each sense in bliss.
Perfumes of Araby the blest,
Exhaled from out its petals blue,
I wondered much, till love confessed,
That star, and song, and flower were you.
	ANONYMOUS.
SALT LAKE CITY, February 10, 1881


[Column 1]

A FEW INCIDENTS.

	Desiring to inspire faith in the minds of our
young people, I have decided to publish some
items from manuscript which I have in my
possession, that I think will be interesting to
the readers of the EXPONENT. It will also
give to the young some idea what their mothers
and the veteran women of this Church have
endured for the principles of this faith, or for
the Gospel's sake. These items are from the
writings of a lady now deceased, Louisa B.
Pratt of Beaver.
	"I have had deep experience in this kingdom:
having spent over 40 years in active service. I
was raised under the influence of the Episcopal
Church; continued steadfast in that faith until
I heard the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel,
revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in
this our day. And verily it was by the power
and goodness of God that it was made known
to me, for I would not believe the testimony of
the Elder who taught me, although I knew him
to be a man of candor and truth. I had known
the Scriptures from my childhood, and I knew
his teachings were in strict accordance with the
apostolic doctrines, yet I would not acknow-
ledge it to him. At length I resolved to know
independent of any human testimony. So with
all the energy with which my soul was endowed,
I cried unto the Lord, and suddenly the light
burst upon my heart like the sun breaking forth
from behind a dark cloud when the sky is
clothed in blackness; the Bible was in my hand
and had it been printed in golden capitals and
been of doubtful meaning it would not have
looked half so beautiful; joy unutterable, per-
meated my whole existence. One week passed
away, I was conscious of realizing more true
joy in that short time than in all the years of
my life, which numbered 35.
	We were living on the banks of Lake Erie,
enjoying all the comforts and many of the lux-
uries of life. Jackson County, Missouri was
then the centre of attraction in my mind. My
husband was an unbeliever. He invited a Bap-
tist preacher to visit us, hoping by powerful
arguments he would convince me of my error,

[Column 2]

as he listened to our discussion he saw the fal-
lacy and lameness of his reasoning, and dis-
cerned that the Bible was a sealed book to the
noted preacher. He went to Kirtland on pur-
pose to learn what he could of the origin of the
work which was creating such excitement
through the country. While there became
convinced of its truth and was baptised. He
returned, and testified to his astonished breth-
ren of the Presbyterian order of the great
things he had seen and heard, but they would
not believe. In process of time we found our-
selves﻿ identified with the Saints in Nauvoo; en-
listed hearts and hands to build the Temple. In
1843 Mr. Pratt was called on a mission to the
Pacific Isles. Our property was invested in
land, in the State of Indiana; there was no
ready means to be left for my support, with
four young children, all daughters. I felt that
I must nerve my heart to contend "against the
world, the flesh and the devil." The Saints
were poor, I must "paddle my own canoe." I
formed my plans and commenced in earnest;
great was my trust in God. I had never
learned to distrust men who had the reputation
of being just; but I found that even such ones
sometimes failed, while others were better than
their promises.
	I adopted a rule which I have ever since
found to be invaluable. I determined that my
word should be my bond, and though I promised
to my loss, I made that promise good. This
more than all else of my experience in battling
the storms of life alone, I wish published, for
the encouragement of numbers of my sisters
who like me are left to manage their own busi-
ness and provide for their families. I had
acquired a tolerable education in the govern-
ment schools in Lower Canada; was capable of
teaaching all the common branches, besides I
was a good seamstress. I was left in a small
log house, I immediately set about building a
framed house, buying the lumber on credit.
By the time the building was completed I had
won the reputation of being a punctual business
woman. I was proud of my house, lived in it
three winters, had to make a sacrifice of it when
we left Nauvoo; never realising but $15,00 in
exchange for the house and two City Lots.
Soon after my companion left home, serious
accidents happened to my children, one was
nearly crushed to death by the fall of a seat
loaded with people. The young children who
were with her ran through the crowd asking for
Elders to come and administer to the poor girl:
they did so, and she was brought home to me as
from the dead. I never thought of a Doctor,
but there was earnest pleading with Him who
has power to heal; and before the dawn of the
coming morn she was cheerful and able to re-
late the whole affair; and soon she was wholly
restored, and my heart comforted. The next
that happened the small pox was brought to
the place by the return of my brother-in-law
from Mass. coming up the Miss., on a Steamer.
Hearing of his return, I hurried with my four
children to the house to see him. My two
eldest had been vaccinated the other two had
not. I myself had been, likewise my sister, 17
years before. I stood by his bedside, gazing
upon him with wonder; the children standing
by. He told me to be on my guard, he feared
what it might be; and I withdrew. The neigh-
bors were alarmed when they found I had
been exposed, they would not venture them-
selves into my house.
	The fears of my friends excited faith in me

[Column 3]

to resist the power of the destroyer. I reasoned
with them, that they should help me to have
faith in the power of God, that He would not
suffer such an affliction to come on me when
my husband had been called on a foreign mis-
sion to preach the Gospel of Christ, and left
me to bear the burdens of life alone. My faith
increased as I uttered the words, and I declared
in the name of the Lord that the small pox
should not come under my roof that I would
claim the right to resist it by the power of
God! one child I watched closely, praying
continually that I might not have to recall my
words. At the close of the 9th day I saw symp-
toms of fever, a tremor in the neck. I laid
the girl in the upper room, and struggled with
my determination. At length I discovered on
the knee and fingers of the child nine very
small pimples; still I did not waver or doubt.
Seeing a brother on the street whom I knew
would not be afraid, I took the child to him
to be examined, he having been acquainted
with the disease pronounced it an attack, in
mild form, that it would not enlarge, nor do
her harm, but would prevent in all future her
taking the disease. The same proved true to
the letter as she was afterwards exposed in Cali-
fornia when the tyrant was making fearful
ravages. Then did I render thanks that my
daughter was proof against the direst of all ail-
ments.


EXPRESSION OF THANKS.

	DEAR EDITOR: Every number I receive of
your valuable paper seems to me more and
more interesting and instructive. The noble
ladies who write for the paper I for one feel
to thank for their kindness in making it so
truly valuable in the cause of truth and right-
eousness, and I sincerely wish it was patroniz-
ed by all who love the truth. I also thank
that lady who gave us such a graphic descrip-
tion of what our little children are doing in
the Primary Association. It was very pleas-
ing to read it, I assure you. I also have wished
many times to thank, through the EXPONENT,
those noble ladies of the Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation for their good and generous feelings to-
ward the women of Utah. I know we all
really appreciate their acts of kindness towards
us, and I feel my sentiments are those of many
others of our people.
	I, too, often thought with Sister Helen Mar
Whitney, that if the Book of Mormon was a 
little larger in print many would read it who
do not to-day. This has been a source of re-
gret to myself many times as my sight is fail-
ing me, and I always delight to read that book,
and think it a great blessing to live in such an
age, when truth has sprung out of the ground,
and righteousness has looked down from hea-
ven, for the good of a fallen world. Then let
us as sister struggle on in the cause of truth,
and never become weary in well doing, for in
due time we shall reap, if we faint not.
	Hoping for the future success of the EX-
PONENT, I remain yours in the cause of truth.
				MARY ELLEN MCKAY.


SOJOURNER TRUTH, who is now one hundred
and six years old, on receiving recently a pre-
sent of a silk dress from England, expressed a
hope that she might continue a sojourner here
below long enough to wear it out.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO.
				-----
	   BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				-----
	A great change had been wrought during
the time that the Twelve had been absent from
Nauvoo--My father writing from there in July
1841 described the appearance of the city at
that time--He says, "You know there were
not more than thirty buildings in the city when
we left about two years ago; but at this time
there are about 1200, and hundreds of others
in progress, which will be finished soon.  On
Friday last seventy Saint came to Nauvoo, led
by Lorenzo Barnes, from Chester County, Penn-
sylvania, in wagons, living by the way. On
the next day a company came in wagons, from
Canada, all in good spirits, and in two or three
days after, they all obtained places to live in.
They are coming in from all parts of the vast
continent daily and hourly, and the work is
spreading in all of this land and calls for preach-
ing in all parts.  You will recollect when
we built our houses in the woods there was not
a house within a half a mile of us, now the
place, wild as it was at that time, as converted
into a thickly populated village."
	The following account which was printed in
a St. Louis paper will show the thriving con-
dition of the city in 1842. "The population of
Nauvoo is between 8000 and 9000, and of course
the largest town in the State of Illinois. How
long the Latter-day Saints will hold together
and exhibit their present aspect it is not for us
to say.  At this moment they present the ap-
pearance of an enterprising, industrious, sober
and thrifty population such  a population  in-
deed, as in the respects just mentioned, have no
rivals east, and we rather guess not even west
of the Mississippi."  Before the close of 1842
the population numbered about 15,000 and
scarcely three years had elapsed since the Saints
came there so nearly destitute of every worldly
thing, and by their industry in spite of sickness
and the many obstacles which they had to con-
tend with, they had accomplished more than
any  other community had done in the same
amount of time, but notwithstanding all these
signs of industry, temperance and virtue the
same spirit of jelously and persecution which
had been manifested towards them in Ohio, and
Missouri was imbibed by a portion of the people
of Illinois, and many false reports were cir-
culated by them to injure the Saints, but often
they had the opposite effect and enlisted the
sympathies of many honorable people, and occa-
sionally persons who visited our city would be
so agreeably surprised that they would publish
accounts which contradicted the false reports.
The following one which was written by a
Methodist Minister who visited Nauvoo in the
Spring of 1843 gives such a fair description of
our city and people as they were, that I would
like to see it reprinted for the benefit of those
who listen to all the rumors that are started
about the "Mormons" and believe that they
have sunk so much lower in the mire of cor-
ruption, since coming out to Utah--He says--
"At length the city burst upon my sight and
how sadly was I disappointed; instead of seeing
a few miserable log cabins and mud houses
which I expected to find, I was surprised to see
one of the most romantic places that I had
visited in the west.  The buildings, though
many of them were small and of wood, yet bore
the marks of neatness, which I have not seen
equalled in this country.  The far spread plain
at the bottom of the hill was dotted over with
the habitations, of men with such majestic pro-
fusion, that I was almost willing to believe my-
self mistaken; and instead of being in Nauvoo, of
Illinois, among Mormon that I was in Italy at
the city of Leghorn (which the location of
Nauvoo resembles very much) and among ec-
centric Italians, I gazed for some time with
fond admiration upon the plains below.  Here
and there arose a tall majestic brick house,
speaking loudly of the genius, and untiring
labors of the inhabitants, who have snatched
the place from the clutches of obscurity, and
wrested it from the bonds of disease, and in two
or three short years rescued it from a dreary
waste to transform it into one of the first cities
of the west.  The hill upon which I stood was
covered over with the dwellings of men, and
amid them was seen to rise the hewn stone and
already accomplished work of the temple, which
is now raised 15 or 20 ft. above the level of the
ground.  The few trees that were permitted to
stand were now in full foliage, and were scat-
tered with a sort of fantastic irregularity over
the slope of the hill."  This grove that he
mentioned was where the Saints met upon the
Sabbath day to worship or to hold their public
meetings.  He continues--"I passed on into
the more active parts of the city, looking into
every street and lane to observe all that was
passing.  I found all the people engaged in
some useful and healthy employment.  The
place was alive with business, much more so
than any place I have visited since the hard
times commenced.  I sought in vain for any-
thing that bore the mark of immorality; but
was both astonished and highly pleased at my
ill success.  I could see no loungers about the
streets, nor any drunkards, about the taverns.
I did not meet with those distorted features of
ruffians, or with the ill-bred or impudent, I
heard not an oath in the place, I saw not a
gloomy countenance; all were peaceful, polite,
and industrious.  I conversed with many lead-
ing men, and found them social and well-in-
formed, hospitable and generous.  I saw noth-
ing but order and I regulation in the society.
Where then, I exclaimed, is all this startling
proof of the utter profligacy of Nauvoo?  Where
in the name of God, is the immorality charged
upon the citizens of it; and what dreadful out-
breaking crimes have given men the license
to depreciate this place as much as they do?
Where is the gang of marauders, horse theives
and ruffians, the drunkards and vicious men of
Nauvoo?  Where are the horrid forms of human
beings distorted with hellish rage and maddened
ire?  Where are the dark and diabolical sup-
erstitions?  Where are those specimens of cre-
dulity and ignorance?  Where are those damn-
ing doctrines of demons?  Where in fine is
this slough, this sink of iniquity of which I
have heard so much?  Surely not in Nauvoo!
They must have got the wrong place, or wil-
fully lied about it.  I could but blush with
disappointed shame for my friends who had so
misinformed me, and very soon made up my
mind, like the Queen of Sheba, not to believe
any reports of enemies but to always like her,
go and see for myself."  Here is the testimony
of another gentile who saw it at that time. In
a letter he says, "Look and see what they have
done at Nauvoo, during the comparative
short time they have been there.  If they are
enabled to proceed as they have commenced
their town ere long will become a mighty city.
I do not believe there is another people in ex-
istence who could have made such improvement
in the same length of time under the same cir-
cumstances."
	I wish there were more honorable men, who
when they come among us could see one side
as well as the other, and had sufficient moral
courage when they go away to publish the truth
about the "Mormons!" As far as ourselves are
concerned it matters very little what our en-
emies think or say of us for we expect nothing
better of them and we know that in the end
they will be the sufferers.  I think that we
have shown to the world that we could live and
thrive upon a desert land which they had never
dreamed of inhabiting as well as subdue and
dwell in peace with the savage without any of
their assistance; but we know there are many
honest souls who have not yet heard this Gospel
preached and if the servants of God who have
enjoyed such great blessings and manifestations
of His power should refuse to obey his man-
dates to go forth and warn the inhabitants of
the earth of the judgments which are right at
their doors, that they may repent &c., and
gather up to these mountains where He has
promised to protect his people, they would be
under condemnation and could not escape the
wrath of the Almighty.  The Latter-day Saints
when they receive this Gospel understandingly
are prepared for trials and to make sacrifices
which thousands of them have done in leaving
their homes and native lands, their friends and
kindred ties that had to be broken, and many
have sacrifized worldly riches and what was
dearer than all their good name.  Oh how little
the outside world know or can understand the
motive that prompts the Latter-day Saints to
gather from the different countries and nations
to this far off land, among a people whom all
manner of evil is spoken of, but they knew the
voice of the true shepherd who has said "Ye
shall be hated of all men for my name's sake:
but he that endureth to the end shall be saved;
He has also said to his servants "Behold I send
you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be
ye therefore wise as serpents and harmless as
doves.  But beware of men: for they will de-
liver you up to the counsels and they will scourge
you in their synagogues and ye shall be brought
before the governers and kings for my sake for
a testimony against them and the Gentiles.
Fear not them which kill the body, but rather
fear him who is able to destroy both soul and
body."  The world may prate about the ignor-
ant Mormons but the lowliest among us and
even our little children understand the Scrip-
tures and plan of salvation better than they with
all their worldly wisdom.
			To be continued.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Shall we not rejoice even in affliction? Do
we not see the mighty hand of God stretched
forth every day in our behalf? See the glorious
fields of grain, the sweet-smelling hay, the gar-
dens, the fruits; the flowers, all proclaim ye are
God's people! I have gathered, you from the
four quarters of the earth, and I will bless you!
I will pour forth into your laps the rich treas-
ures of the earth for ye are mine! Oh, be faith-
ful ye handmaidens of the God of heaven for
ye are indeed the blest wives and daughters of
the noble sons of Ephraim, who are ever seeking
for the welfare of Zion! let us help bear the
banners of mercy truth and justice in all meek-
ness, in all sincerity, let us do and dare in our
sphere of action: strive to bring forth a noble
race of sons and daughters, who will acknow-
ledge the hand of God, who will be more dili-
gent than we are in serving the Lord our God,
for they are heirs of truth, and will be lovers
of every good. They will go on conquering
and to conquer every influence that is not of
God, if we will live near unto Him who ruleth
the Universe. Then let us rejoice for we have
a glorious future before us, upward and ouward
be our motto! side by side with our husbands,
be our watchword! That we may receive the
blessed assureance that will be given to all who
strive to serve God and keep His command-
ments—"Well done good and faithful servants
enter thou into the glory of thy Lord."
	B. M.


THE American Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its next annual meeting in Louisville
Kentucky, Oct. 25 and 26. This will be very
soon after the Woman's Congress in Buffalo.
The Western and Eastern ladies who go to the
Congress in Buffalo will be able to attend the
Convention in Louisville on their return with-
out extra expense.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"WAITING FOR MOTHER.

The old man sits in his easy chair
	Slumbering the moments away,
Dreaming a dream that is all his own,
	On this gladsome, peaceful day.
His children have gathered from far and near,
	His children's children beside—
And merry voices are echoing through
	The "Homestead's" halls so wide.

But far away, in the years long flown,
	Grandfather lives again:
And his heart forgets that it ever knew
	A shadow of grief or pain, 
For he sees his wife as he saw her then—
	A matron comely and fair,
With her children gathered around his board
	And never a vacant chair.

Oh! happy this dream of the "Anld Lang Syne,"
	Of the years long slipped away!
And the old man's lips have gathered a smile
	And his heart grows young and gay.
But a kiss falls gently upon his brow,
	From his daughter's lips so true:
"Dinner is ready; and, father, dear,
	We are only waiting for you."

The old man wakes at his daughter's call,
	And looks at the table near—
"There's one of us missing, my child," he says,
	"We will wait till mother is here."
There are tears in the eyes of his children, then,
	As they gaze on an empty chair:
For many a lonely year has passed
	Since "mother" sat with them there.

But the old man pleads still wilfully;
	"We must wait for mother, you know!"
And they let him rest in his old arm-chair
	Till the sun at last sinks low.
Then, leaving a smile for the children here,
	He turns from the earth away,
And has gone to "mother," beyond the skies,
	With the close of the quiet day.

	MARY D. BRIND.
Selected,


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONTINUED.
	Sister Eliza although intimately associated in
the family relation with Pres. Brigham Young
and having resided under the same roof more
than a quarter of a century, and assisted in
various ways to promote his domestic happiness
did not as many would have done, sit down and
spend her time in 'mourning' his death. She
was too much interested in the work in which
he had passed his lifetime; and seemed to renew
her diligence, if that were possible, in promoting
the growth of all the organizations of women
which existed in the Church.
	During that fall Sister Eliza R. S. S. visited
many of the settlements in Salt Lake and other
counties attended meetings and encouraged the
sisters to increase their efforts to do good, and 
help roll on the Latter-day work.
	On the 12th of Dec. a meeting was held to
discuss the best method to obtain signatures to
a petition for a 16th amendment to Congress,
the women of Utah of which she was the leading
spirit, haveing been solicited to aid the National
Woman's Suffrage Association in petitioning.
Sister Eliza suggested a special meeting to be
held Dec. 22nd. At this special meeting an
organization was effected of the Relief Society
of this Stake. Sister Eliza moving in the mat-
ter as President elect of women's organizations,
and making the nominations according to a
precedent established by Brigham Young at a
meeting held in Ogden City July 19, a short
time previous to his decease. This was a new
movement, but in strict harmony with the order
of the organizations and by the permission of the
presiding authorities of the priesthood, and
nothing could be more systematic or better cal-

[Column 2]

culated to further the growth of these institu-
tions than this method of associating together
and reporting in a conference. After this part of
the programme had been carried out, then the
arrangement was made to canvass the Territory
for signatures to the 16th amendment petition
to Congress. In this labor Sister Eliza assisted
not only by advice but actual work in writing
out petitions, receiving, counting names and
preparing the rolls to be forwarded to Washing-
ton. It was at the Convention held early in
January 1878, just following, that the ladies of
the N. W. S. A., spoke so emphatically in de-
fense of Mormon women, and by this work of
petitioning, these same ladies were enabled to
comprehend what power for good was in the
hands of Mormon women.
	It was about this time that the Deseret Silk
Association was making some rapid strides and
Sister Eliza was one of the most earnest workers
in the silk enterprise.
	Speaking of definite public work of organiz-
ing done by Sister E. R. S. Smith, much might
be said and written; however we can only men-
tion in a general way a part of what she has
really been instrumental in doing. Early in the
year 1878 having previously given the store in-
to other hands she commenced with renewed
energy traveling and holding meetings among
the different Stakes of Zion, and assisted in
perfecting the Relief Society organizations after
the same order as in Salt Lake Stake. May 2d
at a Relief Society Conference in Ogden, Apos-
tle Erastus Snow being present also D, H.
Peery and other local authorities of that Stake
which had only been partially effected, was
completed by electing a full board of officers.
	From Ogden Sister Eliza proceeded north
through Box Elder Co., and Malad Valley,
visiting the various towns and settlements or-
ganizing etc., and returning by way of Weber
Co. held two or three meetings in that Stake; in
all holding over thirty meetings in fifteen days.
In July of the same year she traveled through
Utah and Wasatch and in August through
Sanpete, Cache, Morgan and Summit Stakes;
performing as much missionary labor as it was
possible for any one to do; for everywhere she
spoke earnestly and prayed fervently and
words of counsel and instruction such as seemed
suited to the temporal and spiritual condition
of the sisters young and old, flowed from her
lips. Sister Eliza traveled hundreds of miles
during that summer in all kinds of weather, not
in an easy carriage waited upon by servants, but
as opportunity afforded in all sorts of convey-
ances furnished by the people among whom
her lot was cast, and it is scarcely possible to
say how many times she spoke in public. It
was in some respects an eventful year for Sister
Eliza and for Zion, for during that summer
while attending a meeting at Farmington the
idea of an organization for children, such as
now exists was suggested to her mind by some
remards make by Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers.
This hint has since developed into something
tangible known as the Primary Associations,
due to the active, earnest, efficient and one
might almost say indefatigable labors of this
remarkable woman and her co-workers in these
enterprises for the good of Zion. These Asso-
ciations are in our opinion an important factor
in the kingdom of God upon the earth, for they
lie at the very foundation of the Hope of
Israel.
	The first organization was formed on the 11th,
of August 1878 in Farmington and the first
meeting held on the 25th inst. but as it was
not very successful the Association date their
organizations from Sept. 7, 1878. About the
same time some Associations were organized in
Salt Lake City the 11th Ward taking the
lead.
	To be continued.


THE PRIMARIES.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: Permit me through
your columns to say a few words that have been
suggested by visting the Primary Association.
I love to go there, I sometimes think that the
mothers do not appreciate the privileges their
children enjoy; if they did I think they could
spare an hour once in a while to encourage
them by their presence. I often think that I
would like to have our friends in the States
visit these little meetings, I think they would be
forced to take back what has been said in re-
gard to our children; the offspring of plural
marriage being the poor imbeciles, etc., which
they have been represented.
 At the last meeting I attended the President
called upon a little girl to preside, and I can
truly say that is surpassed any thing I had
ever seen in a child. She went through with
the programme with dignity; and then in a 
very pleasant manner said to the visiting sisters
"this fills our programme and we would like
you to talk to us," addressing herself to one who
was present. That programme was indeed
beautiful. Little ones lisping the Lord's prayer
and reading from the Old and New Testament
essays and dialogues on prayer and many other
good things that I cannot remember, and last
but not least the singing from their little Hymn
Books, it seemed like angels voices singing;
praises to our Father.
 John Quincy Adams, President of the United
States once said, when he was an old man he
loved to say the prayer that he learned at his
mother's knee,and do not think that these little
boys and girls will not remember their little meet
ings and the good things they have learned there,
and their President and her counselors that are
laboring hard to prepare them for the great
and glorious future that awaits them if faith-
ful.
 And Sister E. R. Snow Smith, they under-
stand that she was the first organizer and when
told that she will visit them their countenances
beam with joy and happiness, and everywhere
one goes it is the same; how beautiful is such
love and truly she is blessed among women; for,
she has not only the love and good will of every
Latter-day Saint but she has the prayers of the
little children ascending to our Father in her
behalf and Jesus has said "of such is the king-
dom of heaven." I rejoice in Woman's work
and that the restitution has commenced, and
that if we are faithful and seek unto our Father
for his divine aid and assistance, we shall gain
step by step, what we have lost and stand by
the side of our brother man, a wise counselor
and friend in helping to spread light and truth,
and in the redemption of the human race; and
we will take care of the babies too, but we will
pray to our Father for wisdom and ability to
assist in his work, but I must close, or I shall
say something on the Woman question, and it
is thought, by some, that that, had better be
laid on the shelf but it will not be fore our Father
has decreed it otherwise.		R. A. W.


MRS. Dominis, sister of King Kalakua of
the Sandwich Islands is acting as Regent while
the king is away.  Her brother has chosen her
as his successor to the throne.  Mrs. Margaret
Mitcheel and other "Mormon" ladies have had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Dominis while on
the Sandwich Islands and speak of her as a
most etimable lady, very kind in her manner
as well as very agreeable and attractive.
 A NEW book "Harvest Gleanings," by Miss
Anna Gardiner, is now in the hands of the
publishers, The introduction is by Rev. Phebe
A. Hanaford, and the book is dedicated to
Mrs. Charlotte A. Joy. These ladies are all
engaged in reform work.  We have no doubt
the book will prove a useful and instructive
one and a help to the advocates of Woman's
Suffrage and other kindred subjects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -- Editor
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50. Per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY  SEPTEMBER 1, 1881.


WAITING,
	PRESIDENT GARFIELD, so long a severe suf-
ferer, and seemingly near his appointed time for
release from suffering, still lingers on the border
of the shaowy land. The physicians at the
present express considerable hope, and Mrs. Gar-
field, a firm faith in his recovery, a con-
viction that in his case a "a miracle will
be wrought." The sympathies of
the nation are with her in this trying
hour, and it must be a source of satisfaction in
the midst of such a fiery ordeal to know that all
the people are interested and thousands sending
up petitions to Him who rules and overrules and
holds the destiny of mations in His hands, that
He will sare the life of this great man, the
Chief Executive of the American Republic. Mrs.
Garfield's courage and fortitude in the midst of
her earnest solicitude for the welfare of her hus-
band is another proof of woman's strength of
endurance under more than ordinary affliction.
A few more days at least will determine the
important question, whether President Garfield
has vitality sufficient to rally after so great a
struggle with the grim monster death. Mean-
time, the nation is waiting in anxious and pray-
erful suspense, for that the people loved him is
evident on every hand.


LAY UP SOME GRAIN.
	In consideration of the bountiful harvest of
Wheat and other grain which the people in this
valley are blest with, we would suggest that the
sisters recall to mind the request made of them
by President Brigham Young in the fall of 1876,
through the columns of the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, and put in practice the sound advice then
given, To be sure there has been a commenda-
ble effort made to save some grain each year, and
the sisters have not been unmindful of the
counsel they recieved, but in this season of
plenty there might be almost as much done as in
all the preceding years, the prosperity seems to
be so much greater.
  If this golden opportunity goes by, and the
people become careless and indifferent to coun-
sel, because of the great abundance which the
Lord has given, it might be a source of sorrow
in days to come.  Be wise in time and lay by a
portion of the grain with which your labors have
been crowned.  Do not think it of less conse-
quence because of its abundance.  This counsel
was not given for one season, or two, but in or-
der that there might be something reserved
against a time of scarcity, a time of famine,
which has been prophesied of by ancient and 
modern prophets, and will be sure to come soon-
er or later, notwithstanding that at the present
time there seems to be no lack of any good
thing.


The trees are loaded with fruit till they bend
beneath the heavy burden. Vegetation is more
abundant in all its forms than usual. Even the
flowers have been more luxuriant and full, and
fragrance sweeter in proportion. Never was
there a lovelier summer than the present one;
Nature has worn her most royal robes of beauty,
and hill, dale, grove and woodland have rejoiced
the heart, and cheered and gladdened the eye of
man.
	The sisters in their various organizations have,
from time to time, been accumulating in their
bins and storehouses, little by little, and it has
seemed up hill work, and sometimes their cour-
age almost failed. In this plentiful season per-
haps much larger quantities may be gathered
up and preserved. Everything seems to suggest
the approach of great changes in nations and
governments and in view of this, and the fulfil-
ment of the predictions of seers and wise men,
it is well to "lay up something against a rainy
day," a day of less prosperity. Bread is more
precious and desirable than gold, or silver, or
gems. It is the duty of every wife, of every
mother to use her influence to promote agricul-
ture, for unless the earth is tilled and its pro-
ducts cultivated, of what benefit would be all
the gold of Golconda, Utah, Nevada, or all the
precious gems of the whole earth? Then let
us encourage the dignity of the farmer, the gar-
dener and all who follow the profession of out
Father Adam, and maintain the dignity of
Ruth, who was not ashamed to go and glean.
Then, perchance, there may be some land-
owners liberal enough to leave a few sheaves
for the pretty gleaners in the harvest field.


SECRETARIES Y. L. M. I. A.

	The Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. are
earnestly requested to send in complete reports
(which will comprise each branch) to the Secre-
tary of the Central Board, as early as the middle
of September, that an accurate report of all the
organizations may be presented to the October
Conference.  This has never yet been done, be-
cause Stake Secretaries have failed to send in
proper reports.  Those who have reported in full
from date of organization need only send from
date of former statistics.  It is an important
matter and should be promptly attended to.
The Secretary of the Central Board is expected
to hand in the full report two or three days pre-
vious to the October Conference.  Bear Lake
Stake, Box Elder and Weber sent very credia-
ble reports last year, but there were not any
from several other localities, so it would have
been very unsatisfactory to attempt a complete
report, and was therefore laid over to the pres-
ent year.  Be sure and state number of branches
in the Stake, as well as number of members, and
all other items worthy of mention,  not forget-
ting the editing of manuscript papers. Direct all
reports to the Secretary, Louie Wells,  Office
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake City.


HOME AFFAIRS.
  THE Primary Associations of Box Elder and
Utah Counties each expevt to have a Children’s
Fair this Fall
  SISTERS M. ISABELLA HORNE and Elmina S.
Taylor have gone North to attend the Sisters
Conference in Bear Lake Stake.
 Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son arrived safely in New York City.  They
traveled in company with Lieut. Willard Young.
  SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW'S book, "Questions
and Answers,' which she has recently been en-
gaged in preparing, is now in the hands of the
printers at the Juvenile Instructor Office. 			

 ANNIE EVA FAY PINGREE, known as “Eva
Fay” among literary and scientific people, is
spending a few days in this city.  She will give
two of her special scientific entertainments in
the Theatre, Friday and Saturday evenings.

 ERRATA.--In the late issue of the EXPONENT
No. 6, in the article, "Scenes in Nauvoo," by
Helen Mar Whitney, a passage occurs in her
mother's letter like this; “Joseph has been
afraid by the spirit"--it should read: “appraised
by the spirit"

 WOMENS' CONFERENCES:  Cache Stake will be
held in Logan, Saturday and Sunday, the 3d and
4th; Weber Stake Will be held in Ogden, Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday, 8th, 9th and 10th
Tooele Stake in T[--]ele City, Saturday and Sun-
day, 10th and 11th. Box Elder Stake at Brigham
City, 13th and 14th, and Sanpete Stake at Mo-
roni, 16th and 17th. Salt Lake Stake at Salt
Lake City, 23d and 24th inst's.

	THE Children’s Fair for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City in
September, commencing Septemer 22d, and not
5th, as stated previously.  It will continue
three days, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen C.
S. Clawson and her counselors and assistants.
Particulars will be given in the Deseret News
and the Exponent of September 15. Prices of
admission will be, adults 10 cents, children 5
cents.
	THE children of the Primary Assoclation of
West Jordan Ward have proven what can be
accomplished in  very short time by five cent
Temple donations. In three months their fund
amounted to six dollars and sixty cents, which
their president, Mrs. Eliza Bird, paid over to
Bishop Hunter on Thursday, August' 25th. It
is encouragin to see the little ones making such
noble efforts towards building up Zion, setting
an example worthy of imitation by many who
are negligent in these matters.
 THE semi-monthly meeting of the ladies in
the Fourteenth Ward, Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day. August 27th, was very interesting. Presi-
dent E. R. S. Smithr presided.  Opened by sing-
ing "We thank Thee, O God for a prophet;”
prayey by Counselor B. W. Smith; singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise.” Minutes were read
from the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Third Ward and
from two Primary Associations.  Sister Eliza
made some excellent remarks, which were very
gratifying to the sisters, and suggested those in
the audience should occupy the time. Many
testimonies were borne of the manifestation of
the healing power of God, and a goodly portion of
the Holy Spirit rested upon the congregation.
Towards the close of the meeting Counselors
B. W. Smith and Phebe Woodruff adressed the
meeting. Singing, ',O my Father,” etc.; prayer
by Counselor P. Woodruff. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks.

  A SELECT party of'the friends of Dr. Romania
B. Pratt, met at her residence on the evening of
August 8, ult., to celebrate the anniversary of
her birthday.  A few of her lady friends present-
ed her with a plain gold ring, as a slight token of
their sincere love and esteem, and some other
valuable presents.  A letter from one who was
unavoidably absent was read and its contents
accepted as the sentiment of those assembled.
The evening was passed in happy social con-
verse.
	Mrs. Pratt was the first woman graduate in
the medical profession among this people. At
a time and under circumstances which would
have seemed insurmountable to many, she left
her family of little children in the care of her
mother and went to Philadelphla, entered the
Woman’s Medical College, and graduated from
that institution with the title of M.D., which


she had faithfully earned, by her own energy
and perseverance.  She spent some time at the
Eye and Ear Infirmary, and at the Elmira
Water Cure Establishment, and a few months
at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. Mrs.
Pratt has a genuine love for the practice of med-
icine and surgery, and possesses within herself,
with the blessing of God upon her efforts,
all the possibilities of future success in
the profession she has chosen.  Though
small in stature she has already proven
herself a brave little woman and equal to the
emergency in some very difficult and complicat-
ed cases.  Utah may well be proud of her wo-
men doctors and in a Territory where women
have the ballot it is only proper to suppose that
they will make some proficiency in the higher
branches of education and advancement.
	On Wednesday afternoon, August 12th, in
company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and E. C.
S. Cl-wson, we had the pleasure of attending a
meeting of the Primary Association in the 21st
Ward, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding.  Mrs. Emma
Tune and quite a number of the children from
the 20th Ward Primary Association were also
present, by invitation.  The weather was not
propitious, but notwithstanding the pouring rain
there was a goodly number assembled together.
Meeting opened by singing, "Children of the
Saints," prayer by Sister E. Gange; singing,
"Don't Kill the Birds."  The President made a
few remarks, and the minutes were read and
accepted.  The programme previously prepared
then began with a dialogue upon "Liquor Sa-
loons," by Eva Barfoot and Julia Webb; song, 
Robert Jones; recitation, Annie Broadbent;
song, Ella Olsen and Alice Sanders; recitation, 
Sarah Ann Rogers; recitation, Margaret Irish; 
flute duet, Joseph Smith and John Owen; reci-
tation, Herbert Folger; recitation, Emma Rog-
ers; duet, Bertha Bailiss and Kate Williams; 
recitation, Annie Irish; recitation, Amelia
Hanson; recitation, Emily Irish; song, Rose
Miller, "Little Acts of Kindness;" recitation, 
Elizabeth Nixon; organ and flute duet, Fewson 
Smith and John Miller. 
   The visitors then made brief remarks and
suggestions.  Sister Eliza referred to the book of 
questions and answers she was engaged in pre-
paring, that it would be a great help to the offi-
cers in imparting instruction.  Miss Emily
Hanson was nominated and sustained to act as
Counselor to the President of the Primary As-
sociation.  Mrs. Davis stated that they had
enrolled the names of 176 children, their average
attendance is about 75.  Meeting closed with
singing "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
prayer by Master Thomas Mulholland.  Ad-
journed for one week.  This association has only
been organized about three months, but is in a 
most prosperous condition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 53


[Column 1]

OBITUARY.

	Died: in Salt Lake City, August the 6th,
1881, Sarah Beanland, wife of Joseph Bean, and
daughter of the late John and Elizabeth Bean-
land, of Springwood Place, Bolton, near Bradford,
Yorkshire, England.
	She was born September 1st, 1821, and shortly
after her husband received the Gospel as restored
in these latter days, she was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, May
1st, 1843. She emigrated with her husband to
the United States in fulfillment of the divine
command "to gather out from among the na-
tions," in 1855, but could only proceed as far as
Cincinnati, for lack of means. Her determined
purpose in the great Latter-day work, and her
unswerving faith in the protecting care of the
Almighty were well exhibited in the fortitude
displayed by her on the voyage across the sea.

[Column 2]

Situated as emigrants were, in the steerage of
sailing vessels, under such unpropitions circum-
stances she gave birth to a daughter, her exu-
berant spirits never flagging, nor her rejoicings
ceasing in the faith and power of her holy relig-
ion.
	In 1859 she crossed the plains for Utah. On
account of the heavy loading of the ox teams
there were but few miles of the long journey
that she did not walk and carry her infant plod-
ding, day after day, through the burning sands
of the Black Hills, but never a murmur or com-
plaint was heard to pass her lips. When almost
exhausted herself she could be seen encouraging
others, of her wearied companions, in the good-
ness of God, and the bright prospects that awaited
them in glorious Zion. Arriving in Salt Lake
City, she with her husband and family, settled
in the 11th Ward, where she continued to reside
until her death. She filled the position of coun-
selor to Sister McRae, president of the Relief
Society, which position gave her ample oppor-
tunity for the exercise of those gifts so prominent
in her, being unbounded benevolence and solici-
tude for the welfare of others. Whatever the
vicissitudes of life, her uncomplaining nature
always wore the pleasing aspect of a contented
mind. She portrayed a meekness, and patience, 
and a devotedness to her husband and family,
her religion and her God, as becoming a Saint.
She was a faithful wife and mother unto death,
valiant in the testimony of Jesus, her hopes
never flagging nor her faith wavering in the
promises of eternal life. She was the mother of
eleven children and had nineteen grand child-
ren.  After an attack of cholera morbus, which
lasted two days, she succumbed to the power of
the destroyer. She retained her consciousness
up to the hour of her death, and passed away
as peacefully as in a gentle sleep, in the full as-
surance of a resurrection with the just, to reign
with Christ upon the earth.—Des. News.

	Sister Naomi R. daughter of David Lebaron
and Zuba King, and wife of James S. Holman,
deceased, after an illness of three days, departed
this life at 7 o'clock P. M., on Thursday the 11th,
inst at Holden Millard Co. Utah. She was born
in Leroy, Genesee Co. N. Y. Oct. 7th, 1816. Mar-
ried J. S. Holman, March 24th, 1833; joined the
Church in an early day and passed through all
the drivings and persecutions of those days; in
1836 received a patriarchal blessing under the
hands of Joseph Smith Sen., that has been a 
guide to her through her life, which has been a
very eventful one, and, but a few days before
her death she was heard to say that her life
seemed like a dream, when she thought of what
she had endured in her lifetime. She came to
Utah in 1848 with six small children, following
her husband who came the year previous;
	She was the mother of 12 children, her grand-
children numbering 52, and great grandchildren
16. She was a devoted wife and mother, a good
neighbor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and
has been for years an energetic member of the
Relief Society and was always willing to respond
to every call that was made of her. She passed
away peacefully surrounded by her relatives and
friends, and was laid away to await the resurec-
tion of the just.
	PAULINE LARSON.


AT REST.

	Another dear one has departed from this to a
bettter state of existence; our aged sister Patsy
Ann De Berry. She was familiarly known in
the 10th Ward, Salt Lake City, where she re-
sided as "Grandma Smith," having been sealed
to the late Samuel H. Smith, brother to the
Prophet Joseph Smith.  She was born February


4th, 1808, in Simpson County, Kentucky, and
was the youngest child of William Lowe and
Margaret Fare.  She was desirous of joining
herself to some church in her youthful days, but
her father desired her not to do so, as he said the
true church was not upon the earth, but that it
would be before long; he might not, he added, live
to see it, but she would, and become identified
with it.  She was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Chirst of Latter-day Saints, March 10th,
1835, by James Emmett.  She never gathered
with the Saints until the fall of 1875, owing to
her husband not having embraced the gospel,
she having lived with him until his death.  She
was well posted in all the affairs of the Church
in the mountains, as well as to a great extent
in the nations of the earth, as she took all the
publications of the Church as they were publish-
ed from time to time.  She lived the life of a 
true Latter-day Saint, full of faith and good
works, keeping very faithfully "the Word of
Wisdom."  I believe she never tasted tea, coffee
or intoxicants of any kind, not even home-made
wine.  She went to her rest at the ripe old age
of 73 years, 6 months and 9 days, on Saturday
afternoon, August 13th, 1881, at 2 p. m., with
the assurance of coming forth in the morning of 
the first resurrection.  "Peace to her ashes."
								T. C. J.


NAUVOO TEMPLE.

	Nauvoo, or "The beautiful," as it was some-
times designated, was formerly called Commerce
and sometimes the "City of Joseph." October
3rd, 1840, at a general conference it was resolved
to build a "House of the Lord" there, to com-
mence it within ten days of that date and to ap-
propriate every tenth day to the building of the
sacred edifice. April 6th, 1841, the first stone
was laid amidst the most straightened circum-
stances of the Saints. In the Spring of 1843, the
Temple was raised fifteen or twenty feet above
the level of the ground. October 6th, 1845, it
was so far finished as to allow a General Confer-
ence of the Church to be held in it. At this
conference the subject of the evacuation of
Nauvoo was canvassed before the Saints and
committees for the sale of houses, farms, lots,
etc., appointed. Sunday, the day before, 5,000
saints met in it for the first time. May 1st,
1846, public services were held in the Temple,
the amount said to have been expended on it by
the Saints exceeds $1,000,000. November 10th,
1848, it was fired by an incendiary, the light of
its fire was visible for 30 miles. May 27th, 1850,
a tornado blew down the north wall and so
shook the building that the Icarians who had
been engaged in rebuilding the edifice for their
use deemed it advisable to pull down the east
and south walls leaving only the west wall.
									A. F.


A PLEASANT SURPRISE.

			MILL CREEK, August 5th, 1881.
	Quite a number of relatives and friends, of
Sister Jeanette Park, assembled at her residence
in Mill Creek Ward, July the 20th to welcome
her home after a three months visit South.  At
about 5 o'clock P.M., the party assembled await-
ing the arrival of the Southern train, which was
to bring Sister Park home.  When it did arrive
her surprise and joy at meeting so many friends,
can better be imagined than expressed.  At 6
o'clock the party sat down to tables sumptuously
loaded, and partook of a repast that was elegant
to the eye as well as delicious to the taste.  There
were about 100 persons present.  Sister Park re-
ceived some very useful and elegant presents
well worthy of mention.  After supper was over
various amusements were engaged in; such as
music, dancing, singing etc., which lasted until
about 12 o'clock at night, when the happy as-
semblage dispersed, feeling they had enjoyed a
very happy time.


Sister Park likes the Southern country very
much, and while there she had a very nice time,
especially working in the St. George Temple for
her dead, and she feels to bear her testimony of
the Holy Spirit that surrounds the Temple, caus-
ing such a peaceful good feeling to prevail in and
around the Temple, and throughout the place.
							O. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.

	The ladies regular semi-monthly meetings in
the 14th ward in this city are still continued
although of late we have omitted publishing on
account of so many conference minutes from
different parts of the Territory; but as these
meetings are of special consequence we deem it
wise to make notices now and then for the
benefit of those who have not the privilege of
attending.  These meetings may be compared
to the high school department of womens' or-
ganizations.  
	Saturday July 30. Counselor Sarah M. 
Kimball presided in the absence of the Presid-
ent M. Isabella Horne.  After the usual exer-
cises, minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted, also minutes of the 12th, and 11th, 
ward Primary Associations.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was the first speaker, she
referred to this as the vacation season, and
thought the physical condition affected the
spiritual somewhat.  Mentioned that Sister
Eliza R. S. S., who had been so long away was
present also Sister Horrocks who had just re-
turned from St. George.  
	Sister E. R. S. Smith, said she had come more
particularly to electioneer, that it was an im-
portant point; she had been very little with her
sisters in the city for eight months, but realized
how beautiful was the love of sisterhood, es-
pecially when the tie is the Gospel.  Our Father
has appointed for our growth and advancement
our meeting together.  "These said the Savior
"will I make my jewels."  These blessings
which it is our privilege to obtain how impor-
tant.  What consequences depend upon our
course!  Everything else in comparison with
eternal riches is as nothing.  In arrang-
ing questions and answers for the children, 
when I find that only two were permitted to
enter the land of Canaan--it seems strange. 
But we find that these two wholly honored God.  
Even Moses took honor to himself.  When 
thirsting and God gave him the rod and told
him what to do, he spoke to the children of
Israel as though it was of his own power the
miracle was performed, the Lord showed that
He would be obeyed.  I feel that every one
present is a follower of the Lord.  It requires
great strength to do the will of God. Whether 
attending to home duties or as minute women
called to perform some extra service, we can
little by little, bring every power into the service
of God.  Cannot God avert the hand of the
destroyer?  We can feel affliction but cannot so
plainly see the wisdom thereof.  The little ones
are being gathered home.  Our Father has
said that in the last days He would lay up
much precious seed for Himself.  Let us my 
sisters try to draw a little nearer to God, hold
a little nearer communion with him.  I think
we can to a considerable extend mould ourselves
to his purposes.  The Spirit of God will not
approve of excessive grief.  The virtue lies in
overcoming grief.  Who has the same means
to assist them in overcoming the sorrow of death
that the Saints of God have.  I have wondered 
how those who have not the knowledge that we
have can bear up.  But there are worse ills
than death.  To turn away from the faith.  
	Remember to-morrow is election day.  It is
our duty to vote, sisters let no trifling thing
keep you at home.  So many brethren are
away, that every sister should be prompt, and
help sustain those in office that will sustain the
kingdom of God.  
	Sister C. Horrocks, spoke of her recant visit
to St. George. and that the remembrance of it
and her visit to the Temple almost overcome
her; said she felt to try and live to the teach-
ings given there, and here in the sisters meet-
ings.  
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, felt it was good to
attend the meetings for she always had her
spirit fed and strengthened there.  It is a 
great privilege that we can go to the polls and
vote and elect those men who are best for such
trustworthy positions, It is the very end that
the most talented women of the world are
striving for.  It is particularly important in
Utah that we be careful who presides over us.
We are getting so comfortable that we are also
becoming careless when we find ourselves sur-
rounded and overcome; we will begin to call on
the Lord to deliver us.  But it is our duty to
help ourselves.  Every woman who has the
franchise should use it.  Sisters your individual
influence may be a lever in the community.
We are entitled to maintain honest men in posi-
tion.  We have the right so to do.  Let us
think what would be our fate were we once to 
lose power.  There is a set determination to
overcome this people.  If we would not have
past injustices repeated, we must look to our-
selves. 
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson. Spoke very eloquently
upon the suffrage question said she had been in-
terested in and engaged in working for suffrage
twenty years; when she came to Utah and
learned with what wisdom women used the
ballot; she wished those in the East could under-
stand the benefit. When the children of Israel 
departed from the teachings given them they
suffered in consequence.  If we prove negligent
the Lord may suffer us to become in bondage
to those who would oppress us.  Outside men
are elected by party rather than by the people.  
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball:  said she had intended
to go to the Primary Meetings but was hindered
by a caller she had since wished she had invited
him to go with her; felt we were under obliga-
tions to give attention to public matters.  
"Every privilege becomes a duty."
	"Mrs. B. W. Smmith thought all citizens
should go to the polls and vote the right ticket.  
If we sisters elect our party we may receive some 
favors we desire;  if our enemies are elected we
may be disfranchised.  Sisters use your influ-
ence with others for good.  
	Mrs. P. L. Kimball:  It is of vital importance
to us as a people that we hold the reins of gov-
ernment in our own hands as much as possible.  
Deduct the womens' vote and see what might
follow.  Leave your work on Monday morning
until you have voted, and be sure you have
the right ticket.  I have never missed voting
since the ballot was given to the women of Utah.  
Meeting adjourned for two weeks singing dox-
ology.  Benediction by Mrs. May A. Freeze.  
	14th Ward Saturday Aug. 13.   Mrs. M. I. 
Horne presiding.  After singing and prayer
minutes were read from 11th, 12th, 18th, 10th, 
ward Primary Associations.  Sister Horne
made some remarks upon principle and recom-
mended the sisters to use herbs and faith in-
stead of employing outside physicians, thought
faith and works should go together.  I believe in
our women employing midwives instead of male 
physicians, those that have the inspiration of
God many times to preserve, as Moses was saved 
in his day.  Those who are called to teach
should speak of these things and of existing
evils.  Doctors often extort from the poor un-
justifiably, such things should be remedied.  If
you employ a Doctor adhere to their direction.  
Dr. Ferguson has said that sulphur and cream
of tartar given twice a week to children would
prevent throat diseases.  The revelations given
by Joseph Smith are more particularly adapted 
to us.  We are to be tried, there is no excel-
ency attained without exertion.  Let us seek 
to perfect ourselves before the Lord.  
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, said those that attended
these meetings are the wheat; those that watch
and pray and try to set a good example and
try to live the religion of Christ.  We do not
exercise as much faith as we shouold.  The Lord
is able to do all things for our good and the
good of our children.  I hope the sisters who 
go out to represent us in the world may be 
belssed.  
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, spoke of her visit to Mor-
gan Co., they had live institutions there, more
active than in Salt Lake, we ought to be more
appreciative because we have greater advan-
tages than the women of the world.   Why have
any of the Saints lost their former faith.  I
fear there is a wrong in some in placing too
much faith in physicians, who do not under-
stand as much as they profess.  God should be
our great physican.  
	Mrs H. C. Young, said we do not realize as
we should the responsibility that we bear be-
fore God to the people; we should enter the
house of God with pure minds.  Spoke upon
plural narriage and tithing, the organization of
the human system how supported etc. 
	Mrs. M. P. Young and Mrs. M. I. Horne
made some suggestive remarks and the meet-
ing was adjourned for two weeks with singing
and prayer by Mrs. Julia Howe.  

	ST. DAVID CACHISE CO. ARIZONA

EEITOR EXPONENT:  
	We send you a short account of our progres-
sion in this far away place, we held our third
Annual Meeting May 4th, 1881, our account
being read showed that we had accumulated
during the year $51.50; disbursed to missionar-
ies 10.50;  school house 9.25.  For quilt mat-
erial and other things 24.40.  Balance in the 
Tretsury 7.35.  Meetings held during the year
24; members, 15; average attendance 9. 
	We are trying to do all the good we can, our
President is alive to her duty and feels a great
desire for the advancement of the Relief Society
but it seems as though we have not much chance 
here at present.  Our settlement is growing in
numbers and we hope we shall be joined soon
by some good faithful sisters that can and will
assist us in our Society.  We have a very good
day school and Sunday School, and a Primary
Association so that our children ought to ad-
vance, we feel very thankful for the privileges, 
that we are enjoying at the present time in re-
gard to our children for they have had very
little chance for education, since we came here
over four years ago.  We are always glad to
receive the EXPONENT and wish there were more 
here that felt as though they could subscribe
for it.  Praying God to bless, and aid you in
your labors, we remain your sisters in the
Gospel.  
			CYRINA MERRILL.  Pres. 
			MARIA MCRAE, Sec'y.


AUCKLAND NEW ZEALAND

	EDITOR EXPONENT.—This branch of the
Relief Society was organized by Elder George
Batt, Dec. 22, 1880. Sister Isabel Lucy ap-
pointed President, and Sister Day and Fox her
Counselors, Sister Williams, Secretary, Sister
Miles Treasurer. We commenced to accumu-
late a fund which was cheerfully subscribed to
by most of the sisters, some giving money,
others articles of clothing, etc., un[-]il at the date
of writing, our books show[-] the sum of £10.14,0
as having been received, and disbursed, £105,0
to the poor, and remainder to assist the mis-
sionaries in their labors in this land; we feel to
thank God that we are considered worthy to
assist in the great work of redemption.
	In June 9, we bade farewell to our beloved
President and her counselors, viz., Sisters Lucy.


and Day, they leaving this place for the land
of Zion, whereupon Sister Hannah Cox was
called to preside and was sustained by unani-
mous vote of the Society, which now numbers
15 members, we are anxious to do our duty,
and are assisted in this at times by Elder
Romley meeting with and occasionally instruct-
ing us, in relation to the same; his motto is "if
we do but little, let us do that little well," which
motto we adopt and hope to be able to carry
out. The Society meets semi-monthly—once for
sewing and once for business purposes, we read
with pleasure in the EXPONENT of the efforts
of our sisters at home in Zion to assist in rolling
on the work of God, and anxiously look for-
ward to the time when we will be privileged to
be with you in person as we now are in spirit,
for with the poet we truly say,

"I know it is the promised land;
My home, my home is there."

	That God may bless you in your efforts to do
good and all who favor Zion and her interests,
is the prayer of your sisters in the Gospel of
Christ.
				HANNAH COX, Pres't.
				SARAH WILLIAMS, Sec'y.

WASATCH STAKE.

	Meeting of Relief Society of Wasatch Stake
held in Heber City Hall August 5th 1881.
Present on the stand, President Emma Brown
and Counselor Mary Daybell, the presidents
of the various Societies and Associations of the
Stake Pres. H[--] Bishops Foreman and
Murdock and other brethren. Meeting called
to order by Pres. Brown, singing, prayer by
Sister Duke, singing, "Spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Minutes of Conference read and
approved. Report read by Sec'y. The Pres.
of the several Societies gave verbal reports all
seeming to feel well. Presidents of Primary
Associations gave very favorable reports. The
children are striving to improve; Sister Brown
made some appropriate remarks. Adjourned
till 2 o'clock P. M.
	Afternoon session opened by usual exercises,
prayer by Sister Cluff. As the Sec. of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was not present one was chosen.
The Presidents of the Y. L. Associations gave
in their reports all seemed to feel well and im-
proving in good works. Sister Duke, from
Provo City, addressed the conference a short
time gave good instructions to mothers with re-
gard to training and instructing their children.
Spoke on Celestial Marriage, said it was a re-
vealed law from heaven, to the Prophet Joseph;
the speaker had heard the Prophet speak on
Celestial Marriage. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in keeping all the commandments of
God our Father leaving nothing undone that
might insure our salvation and exaltation in
the kingdom of Heaven. Sister Moulton gave
some very excellent instructions, Bishops
Foreman and Murdock gave good counsel said
mothers should be very watchful of their
daughters that they should not keep company
with outsiders and thereby be led astray.
Pres. Hatch was very much in earnest telling
the sisters to see after their daughters that
they are at home at night; and also to know
what company they are keeping. It is the duty
of mothers to look after their children. Sister
Brown expressed herself pleased, and endorsed
all that had been said. Conference adjourned
for 3 months.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS M. BRONSON Ass't.

	AMELIA WELLS, the Queen of the Gypsies,
is said to be worth $60. 00.

	R. S. Stake Secretaries should remember to
send full reports by the middle of September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

DRAWING ROOM MEETINGS.

BROMPTON SQUARE.

	On Thursday the 12th of July, a drawing-room
meeting was held at the residence of Miss Cour-
tenay, Brompton Square. Amongst those pre-
sent were Lord Stratheden and Campbell, Col-
onel Morrison, Mr. Newton Scott, Miss Frances
Power Cobbe, Miss Becker, Miss Tod, Miss
Biggs, Miss Courtenay, and several others.
	Miss BECKER, in opening the proceedings, ex-
plained that the object of the meeting was the
extension of the parliamentary franchise to
women who posessed the same qualifications
that entitled men to vote. They desired the
franchise not only as an act of justice, but be-
cause the denial of it created a great deal of
mischief to women and to society. Men often
call upon women to take part of certain duties,
but the part which they ask them to take con-
sisted principally in the relief of suffering, or
the mending or repairing of some blunder. She
hoped women would be willing always to come
forward to relieve suffering; but it was beginning
at least to be seen by the more thoughtful that
the prevention of suffering was more important
than the mere relief of it. To her mind women
should have a voice in the prevention of suffer-
ing as well as take part in the alleviation of it
when it existed. The Woman's Suffrage So-
ciety was very earnest in pressing forward the
movement of giving the suffrage to women, and
in endeavoring to circulate a knowledge of its
principles; and it was by means of gatherings
like the present meeting that those principles
were brought forward into quarters which the
ordinary channels—public meetings—for dis-
seminating information in regard to the views
of the society did not reach. Much benefit to
the movement might be brought about by such
gatherings as the one they were that day at-
tending. (Hear, hear.)
MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE spoke in sup-
port of the principle. She maintained that the
movement for extending the suffrage to women
had been generally represented by its opponents
as being highly revolutionary. Its opponents
seem to think that if the right of voting were
granted to women, disastrous results would
follow; and the friends of the movement very
naturally, when they heard such things, were
anxious to try and make out that the giving
the suffrage to women would be a very small
affair, and they went back to the ancient per-
iods, when women used to vote, to show that
formerly women did exercise the franchise.
She did not think either of the views represented
by these two classes were exactly the correct
ones. It simply amounted to this, that in all
ages and times the weaker races and classes
were subject to the stronger ones. It was so in
the days of ancient Greece and Rome. In
Rome the poor slaves had to do the work, and
when they attempted to revolt, 6,000 of them
were crucified. When they came to the feudal
times it was the same thing, the serfs being the
subordinate class. The idea which she wanted
to put forward was that the giving of political
rights to the weaker classes was a notion of
modern times. Women in former times evi-
dently had no political rights, but now a period
had arrived in which all classes were beginning
to assert their rights, and therefore, she looked
upon the affording the suffrage to women not
as a wonderful revolution, but simply as an
inevitable step in the gradual progress of free-
dom throughout the world. (Applause.)
Freedom was proceeding from class to class
and from sex to sex, and the consummation
would be reached when men and women en-
joyed equal privileges. It must not be im-
agined that it was a humiliating assertion to
say that women were a weaker class. As
regards enforcing their rights they were cer-
tainly weaker—they could not pull down park

[Column 2]

railings—(a laugh)—and make the same dis-
turbances that men could—and persons were
apt to confound the want of physical power to
asert rights with the lack of power to see
wisely and judiciously what was for the public
benefit. Now in her opinion these were two
distinct things. Miss Cobbe here read some
extracts from Mr. Kinglake's work upon the
Crimean war, pointing out how badly the sick
were managed in the hospitals out at the
Crimea, her object being to show the different
way in which the female brain worked to that
of man in time of difficulty. Everything she
said, was done by the officers to improve matters,
which instead of getting better got worse.
Ultimately female aid was sent for and ob-
tained, and the state of affairs began to bright-
en up. The speaker having read some other
passages from Mr. Kinglake's work eulogising
Miss Nightingale, and referring to the great
faculties possessed by that lady, concluded by
saying that if there were only one or two Miss
Nightingales, there might still however be a 
considerable number of women quite as good as
some of those who at present got a share in the 
government. (Applause.
	Miss TOD remarked that both of the preced-
ing speakers had alluded in an informal way to
the fact that women had taken a part in public
life, and perhaps a considerable part when it
was remembered  what had been done. This
empire could not have been created had it not
been for the large and important share which
women had taken in the efforts and sacrifices
which had been made to build up its grand
history. What they were then asking for wo-
men was much more new in form than sub-
stance. Until a comparatively recent date no
very large number of men of the ordinary
middle and lower classes had a voice in the
affairs of the State, except in an indirect way.
The Reform Bills actually lessened the political
influence of women, unless they too, upon the
same conditions as the men possessed the vote,
were granted the suffrage, because those Bills
gave the men power out of all proportion to
that possessed by women. Till a comparatively
recent date the difference in that amount of
political power possessed by men over women
was not nearly so great as it was at present,
and therefore it was of importance that the
balance should be restored by giving to women
the parliamentary franchise. Women had
duties to perform to the country at large, and
the qualities which they could bring into public
life were those which to a great extent were
needed. She remembered some years ago talk-
ing to a member of the French army who was
in favor of the Empire, and was very much
struck by what that gentleman said when he
stated "that Parliaments and Assemblies were
feminine modes of government." Government
by free and open discussion and not by force—
that was by force of mind rather then physical
strength—was undeniably one in which women
could take their full rights, and it must be re-
membered that the Government of England
was a government by discussion. It was in
Parliament that all the thoughts, feelings, and 
desires, all the wants, wrongs, and interests of
the nation were discussed, and the essence and
value of such discussion was not so much the
work done as the discussion itself—the free in-
terchange of opinion amongst reasonable people.
It was the duty of women to claim their rights,
and she wished to impress upon ladies that they
ought not to set aside their duties. It was nec-
essary that they should assert their rights, and
it was the duty of every woman householder to
endeavor to obtain for herself and for her sisters
the parliamentary franchise. (Hear, hear.)
	The discussion was continued by Mr. Newton
Scott, Miss C. A. Biggs, Miss Cobbe, Miss Tod,
Miss Becker, Colonel Morrison, and Miss Cour-
tenay, and after partaking of refreshment the
party separated.


FORE STREET. 
	On July 9th a meeting was held at the house
of Mrs. Vialls, Forestreet. Miss Downing and
others addressed those assembled,and a petition
in favor of the resolution was adopted.—Wom-
en's Suffrage Journal.


56	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RUSTICATING.

	There lies in the southeastern part of Utah,
high up in the mountains, a pretty lake called
Panguitch, or by some Fish Lake; about two
miles long by a mile wide. Its depths are lit-
erally stocked with fresh pinky-colored sal-
mon trout. We are up here paying a sum-
mer's visit, and right pleasant it is, too. I
have traveled through the territory a great deal,
but the scenery near this lake surpasses all
that I have ever seen in Utah in grandeur and
beauty. One scene is gemmed in my memory.
A little vale, soft carpeted with changing
greens, surrounded by the mountain tops,
whose sides hold sentinel-pines that rise in
lofty pride and frown upon the quaken-asp
that trembles at their wrath. The little vale is
checkered here and there with silvery spots
that show which way the streamlet runs.
Across the shepherd drives his murmuring
sheep into the fold, and the lone hut bids wel-
come home with open door and curling smoke
to weary travelers. The pale blue sky, with
banks of dusky clouds, the lovely scene spread
out below, the hush and calm of Nature's bo-
som thrills me with unknown delight.	*	*
I sit here in the doorway of our unpretentious
cottage, and at my feet the lake is rippling
and curling as only lakes can do. Sometimes
I see reflected in its calm clear eyes the brown-
faced mountains opposite. Around the lake
rise wondrous hills with wooded tops. A little
valley with its light green meadows goes up to
meet the mountains on the west. Around,
about, and overhead the scene is beautiful.
Sometimes at twilight, the boat comes in to
shore, and o'er the waters floats the sound of
music. My eyes are filled with tears, and as
the singers chant, "Nearer, my God, to Thee,"
my heart is all too full for utterance. Some-
times we ride up in the canyons, and one such
trip I may describe to you, although my words
are tame and poor, compared with what the eye
would tell to you were you but here. Get in
our wagon and we will take you to the pretty
spring, whose depth gives it the name of "Blue
Spring." The road winds through the pines,
past running streams, and crosses over a mea-
dow to the hills beyond. We climb up a half
mile, swing round a little plateau, and here we
are. A perfect circle full 50 feet across holds
down in its bosom a faultless spring of ice cold
water. We scramble down the rim and walk
out on the pine tree flung from side to side, and
look down into this lakelet's pretty eyes. We
gather at its brink wild roses and geraniums,
and climbing up its sides we spread our shawls
beneath the trees, and drink in all the loveli-
ness of this lone spot. The wind tells mourn-
ful stories in the pines. One tale it tells is this:
A maiden in the far-off olden time, with sweet-
est eyes of blue, laid all she loved beneath the
sod. Down her cheeks there flowed a stream
of tears, and raising oft her eyes, she prayed to
Jove to let her watch over that dear grave for-
ever. The prayer was heard, and eyes of blue
were circled round with earth's broad arm and
down the hill, the tears flowed as a silver
stream, while lofty trees caught up the maid-
en's voice, and with their boughs bore to each
other the oft-told tale of love and constancy,
and so the eyes of blue, the sighing voice are
ever near the spot.			HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	The mortality in Salt Lake City for the
month of August was unusally large.

[Column 2]
		FOR SALE
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER’S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[Image of denture] SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully 
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. Box, 541.

[Column 3]
		A LARGE STOCK,
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linaeys,		Casalmers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection [---]
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the late[--]
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z.C.M.I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES 
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES AND SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desireable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. [Icon of hand pointing] Your Orders are Solicitied.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH AND BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
[Repeated hand icon] Spring and Summer Goods. [hand icon]
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

[hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[hand icon] Address, David James, Box 386, Salt Lake City

[hand icon] Z. C. M. I. [hand icon]

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, AND 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office. South side
of street.
[hand icon] Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


A WORD TO MOTHERS.

	Mothers talk much with your children and
little to them.  You whose "feet are beautiful
upon the mountains of experience can show to
them the path which led you hither, and speak
of the thorns that pierced your tender hands
when tumbling over some rock of mistake,
doubt or uncertainty, you fell by the wayside.
One tender looking confidential talk is worth
many stern admonitions.  Advice antagon-
izes and humiliates.  Sympathy encourages
and elevates.  The mother who steals her arm
gently about her darling and says, 'I made that
mistake, or I gave you way to that temptation, and
I would save you that pain which I have suf-
fered."  wins a lasting victory over the most
alluring temptation.  Rebuke rouses antagon-
ism and rebellion, and back of these is concealed
the adversary.  If the child is mother's confi-
dent the door is ajar for all good influences and
happy results, and the mother may make her
responsibility lighter by putting her children
upon their personal responsibility toward God,
and then saying I will go with you and aid you
all I can by my love, sympathy and instruction,
but the results of your actions are between you
and God.--Ex. 				M. F. R.


WHAT harm would it have done the Inter
National Medical College if the Queen had
withdrawn her name as patron? It would have
been worth while to find out. Real values do
not require names.—Ex.

	FOR a woman who has got on so well in the
world, it is decidedly mean in Queen Victoria
to object to the presence of women in the In-
ternational Medical Congress, who simply ask
the right to earn their own living in an humble
way.—Springfield Republican.

	During the past fifteen years, the Congres-
sional Library has doubled three times, and if
the present rate of increase continues, it will
not take long to reach a million volumes. In
1814, the library—founded in 1800—contain-
ed 3,000 volumes, and was burned by the Bri-
tish when they captured Washington.—Ex.

	Preston Powers' marble bust of John G.
Whittier has been placed in the East Room of
the Boston Public Library, and represents
the poet in a musing mood, with head slightly
bent. The same artist's bust of President
Garfield was begun in his studio at Florence on
the day of the attempted assassination.—Ex.

	The Boston Herald well says: "In setting
herself against the admittance of female phy-
sicians to the medical congress, the Queen has
shown herself illiberal, but in rather an absurd
light logically, unless she wishes to discounten-
ance the entry of women into one profession
most suited to them, and most needing them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1881.


GATHERING AUTUMN LEAVES.
"So, so; you've been wandering over the hills,
To catch the music of rippling rills,
As they wind through the crooked and rocky ravine,
Like glistening ribbons of satin and sheen.

"Take care, little woman! to you it seems fine;
To me, you have only been wasting your time;
It would bring us, I think, more stockings and shoes,
It you helped in to gather the corn from the mews."

"Our time is our money, I've heard mother say,
In wasting our time we throw money away;
To waste not and want not was always out rule--
'Twas a copy-line written me when I was at school."

To the loving wife's face came a look of surprise,
The tears came unbidden into her brown eyes--
"Dear John, do not blame me," she said as she kissed
His hand with a grace that he could not resist

"I have hurried all day to be able to go,
I can make up the time after supper, you know;
But I wanted to gether some leaver and some moss,
And see the sun  in his cloudlets of floss.

"And then, as I gathered my autumnal leaves,
(Did you ever behold such beauties as these?)
I prayed to the Lord that our autumn of life
Might always be free from confusion and strife."

"That out lives, dear heart, may be glowingand bright, 
With a halo of love and heavenly light,
As the setting sun and these autumn leaves, 
Which I've gathered beneath the grand old trees.

"And John, I prayed that our boys and our girls
Might be as pure as these mountain pearls,
As clear and as bright as the rippling rills--
'Tis a glourious thing to go to the hills."

"John's voice was strangely soft and low
As he answered, "Dear Katie, next time you go
I'd like to go too, I think that I can,
You have made me think I'm a child again.

"But Katie, the heavens are full of days,
And I do not think it always pays
To work all day and at night work late,
So put it away as once, my Kate."
							E.A.B.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH

CONTINUED.

	From the time the first organization of a
Primary Association was effected in Salt Lake
City, Sister Eliza continued to go from ward
to ward and settlement to settlement, organiz-
ing wherever the Bishops and others interested
became converted to the new idea. She also 
visited other counties, organizing the children
everywhere it seemed practicable. A large
portion of her time has been devoted ever
since in promoting the interests of the little folks,
aiding in various ways those who have charge
of these Associations in their work, which la-
bor doubly entitles her to the name so honora-
bly earned, Mother in Israel. After the Octo-
ber Conference, 1878, Sister Eliza took a jour-
ney through a part of Morgan, Box Elder, and
Weber counties, visiting Relief Societies and
Young Ladies' Associations, speaking two or
three times every day: and organizing the chil-
dren in many places.
	Sister Eliza returned home, weary and tired,
about the middle of November, just in time to
preside at the grand mass meeting of 15,000
women, <the timeifthd="" first.="" .organizations="" of="" a="" tnpri="" ity?yva="" sgoraatioif="" rwaa="" :e5ectedbinrsalt.'lake="" -="" city="" sister="" eliza="" contintiedtoi="" gofrom-ward="" to-vai‘d-'and.settlement:toisettleiueiit6rgacizl="" "="" ing="" vherevedthedbisho'p3;and:others="" interested="" jiibecatq'erconverted="" td="" the="" new.="" idea="" 1="" she="" also="" i="" 'visited-other="" counties,="" :orgariizingrthe;children="" everywhere,="" it="" seemed="" practicable:="" ai="" large="" -portion="" ofi’her="" time="" lias-="" bedn="" devoted!="" river="" tsince="" in="" promoting="" ifaterets="" little,="" folks,="" aidinguri="" 'various,ways="" those="" who="" have9charge="" 5oh="" these-="" associations="" in,="" their="" ivorkiyhfch="" la-="" borcdoubly="" entitles="" her="" to="" name="" .so="" hohora-="" blrearned,="" mother="" xsrael="" after="" qcto-="" v="" io-?o="" —="" tre,="" !nov.="" 16,="" fererice="" and"="" ,.="" ,="" ..="" anti-polygamy="" society..="" this="" was="" largest="" yeoman’s="" meeting="" ever="" .held="" utah,="" and="" wa3.="" proper="" that="" one="" who,="" hid="" been,'connected="" with="" order="" plural,="" marriagerdm'lie.="" very="" beginning="" should="" preside="" oyer="" '="" vast="" assem-="" bly="" ladies="" deliberations.="" on.being="" called="" the,="" chair,="" responded="" (eloquently.although="" had="" hot="" had.a="" moment’s="" leisure="" prepare="" herself.="" uter="" qommand="" language="" is="" excellent,="" and.="" such'="" an="" occasion="" called'="" up="" host="" strong="" ai‘drfou:stirring.e.moi="" 'tioiis1.'="" stating="" briefly="" the!="" object="" pf="" -the="" meeting,="" "she="" 'enumerated="" some.="" trials="" throiigh:which="" saints="" passed.,="" andhe="" 'sacrifices="" they="" been,="" upo="" make="" frbmllme="" before="" celestial="" marriage="" given="" by="" revelation!="" commandment="" jo-="" seph="" smith,="" 'the="" prbphet.="" lye="" gtve="" below="" j'couple="" paragraphs="" from="" her!="" speech,="" delivered="" latrthat="" time:="" tast="" weber="" visiting="" kelief="" societies="" young="" ladies’rassociatiofis,="" spealring="" two="" three-="" times="" every,="" day.-="" arid.organiziiig="" the.chil-="" dreniii="" many="" places.oii-="" .="" d="" ij="" sistereliza="" retuinedihbme,="" weary="" arid,tired,="" about="" middle="" of’="" november,="" just="" preside-;="" ah'-the="" .grrind="" mass="" meetiripp="" of-15,000="" 'women.="">which was held in the Salt Lake Thea-

[Column 2]

tre, Nov. 16, 1878, to protest against the inter-
ference and misrepresentations of the Ladies'
Anti-Polygamy Society. This was the largest 
woman's meeting ever held in Utah, and it
was proper thet one who had been connected
with the order of plural marriage from the very 
beginning should preside over this vast assem-
bly of ladies in their deliberations.
	On being called to the chair, she responded
eloquently, although she had not had a moment's
leisure to prepare herself. Her command of
language is excellent, and such an occasion
called up a host of strong and soul-stirring emo-
tions. After stating briefly the object of the
meeting, she enumerated some of the trials
through which the Saints had passed and the
sacrifices they had been called upon to make
from time to time before celestial marriage was
given by revelation and commandment to Jo-
seph Smith, the Prophet. We give below a 
couple of paragraphs from her speech delivered
at that time:
	I am proud to state before this large and
honorable assembly that I believe in the prin-
ciple of plural marriage just as sacredly as I
believe in any other institution, which God has
revealed. I believe it to be necessary for the
redemption of the human family from the low
state of corruption into which it has sunken.
And I truly believe that a congress composed
of polygamic men, who are true to their wives,
would confer a far higher honor upon a nation,
and would perform better service to their coun-
try than a congress composed of monogamic,
unreliable husbands.  
	Virtue is the foundation of the prosperity
of any nation; and this sacred principle of
plural marriage tends to virtue, purity and ho-
liness. Those who represent the women of
Utah as ignorant and degraded are either aim-
ing to bring evil upon us, or they know not
what they are doing. Although I deprecate
the false and odious representations of our con-
dition and the vilification of our characters, I
view with pity and commiseration, those who
have banded together in our midst, to work up
a crusade that is calculated and designed to
subvert and to sever the most sacred tie ex-
isting between man and woman—to separate
husbands and wives, to put the reproach of
bastardy upon their children and trample up-
on the holiest affections of the human heart. I
say I look upon them with sympathy and com-
miseration. They are trying to measure arms
with the Almighty—they know not what they
do. Do I feel a spirit of revenge towards
them? I do not, my sisters, I do not. They are in
the hands of God, and to Him we submit all
these matters. Yet it is our duty, as far as
we have the privilege, to plead our own cause,
realizing fully that it is better to represent our-
selves than to be misrepresented; and leave
vengeance unto God, who has said, "Vengeance
is mine and I will repay." For this purpose,
my sisters, we have met together to express our
feelings and to plead our own cause."
	Shortly after, perhaps six weeks, the Su-
preme Court of the United States gave the un-
looked-for decision in the Reynold's case, which
coused such a revulsion of feeling and almost
appalled those who had looked upon the honor-
able members of that dignified body as just,
upright and invulnerable in equity and right.
	Sister Eliza was a patriot, the granddaugh-
ter of a veteran officer in the revolutionary
army, and she looked with dismay upon such

[Column 3]

an unjust decision. She had thought that at
least the religious exile might obtain redress
upon that one clause, "worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences;" there
the law must hang, it could not pass that by.
She sat down and penned the following senti-
ments, which are now for the first time given to
the public:

DECISION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE 
	UNITED STATES, IN THE CASE OF GEORGE
	REYNOLDS.

"Let oureyes look upon Zion, let her be defiled."
	—MICAH.
	Let us enter the private scantuary of domestic
life, where to the honor of this great Republic,
the divinity of the marriage tie is acknowledged
and held sacred; and where virtue, the crowning
glory of the social circle, is bravely and success-
fully protected.
	There, let us with wanton cruelty defy the
sacred Constitution of our country, and by
trampling on the rights of conscience, sever the
holy bands of wedlock—separate husbands and
wives, parents and children and ignore the purest
affections of the human heart.
	Let us cause thousands of honorable loving
wives to be stigmatized as prostitutes, and their
offspring as bastards. Let us cause multitudes of
innocent children that are now tenderly cared,
provided for and educated, to be branded with in-
famy and deprived of heirship.
	Yea, let us desecrate the homes and extermin-
ate the only people of whom our nation can truly
boast as protectors of purity and innocence lest
their virtuous honorable example, shall, in the
present reign of corruption, rise up before us as a
burning reproof.
	Let us immure in solitary prisons those brave
men who, for the sake of worshiping God accord-
mg to the dictates of their consciences, left
their homes and the graves of their noble ances-
tors and sought refuge in the sterle American
Desert. Where, nerved by the power of faith in
the arm of Jehovah, in whom they trusted, for
awhile they battled with the elements for life,
and at length, with indomitable energy, over-
come the barrenness of the soil, and made "the
desert blossom as the rose."
	Those were the men who, with their stalwart
sons, the offspring of celestial plural marriage,
with a stern, unyielding persevereance established
a connecting link between the commercial cities
of the East and the rich mining districts of the
West, and made practicable for the nation, the
Continental transit of the "iron horse."
	Let us erase from the book of remembrance
the countless deeds of hospitality and generosity
bestowed by those early settlers of the wilder-
ness, on our perishing emigrants when their sup-
plies were exhausted as they were wending their
way through to California.
	Let us plant the seeds of devastation in a thriv-
ing, peaceful, insustrious community—a Terri-
tory brought into existence and made to flourish
without the aid, encouragement or protection
from the Government under which it exists.
	Yea, let us abrogate the rights of its founders
insomuch that henceforth it shall be controlled
by gamblers and speculators who have no in-
terest in common with the
	Instead of the Territory as it now is, a theme
of boast as a nucleus of peace, good orde


and happiness, let us, through our
crushing policy, present it to the nations
abroad, a spectacle of confusion, desola-
tion and woe.
	Let us tear asunder that mighty shield of the
rights of conscience, our glorious Constitution—
let us place our veto on the commands of the
Almighty and presume to measure arms with
the Great Ruler of the Universe.

	Thus saith the Supreme Court of the United
States of America, the court of final decision, the
highest Tribunal of a great and powerful nation,
the last earthly resort to which the oppressed can
appeal for protection, and suffering innocence,
for redress.
					ELIZA R. S. SMITH.

	Sister Eliza, as has been stated, like other
native-born American women, prided herself up-
on the Constitution, believing it gave religious
liberty to all of whatever creed, sect or de-
nomination. Her forefathers fought for liber-
ty and freedom, and she is strongly endowed
with the spirit of true patriotism. That deci-
sion was to her a disappointment, and she could
but give expression to her outraged feelings in
scathing sarcasm. It seemed impossible that
those wise and judicious minds, from whose
judgment there is no appeal save to One above,
should render such a decision, and one cannot
help exclaiming, "How are the might fallen!"
			To be continued.


58	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The Prophet Joseph, being anxious to have
my father nearer to himself and his brethern, our
place on the hill was exchanged for one on the
flat, where father built us a more commodious
house of hewn logs containing three lower
rooms and a chamber, which we moved into
the fall after his return from Europe.
	Our city was then in its infancy, and no saw-
mills or brick kilns had been built. We liked
the situation of our new home much the best,
being in the vicinity of the Temple and grove
where the meetings were held, and also the
general traveling ground, as well as the Missis-
sippi river, where we could go to bathe any
evening without fear of intrusion.
	In the summer season the water was very
warm, but sometimes in the heat of the summer
it was considered unhealthy, and the Prophet
thought it advisable to abstain from indulging
too freely during the sickly season.
	For a time after we settled on the flat there
were but few houses built between ours and the
river, and "oft in the stilly night" waking from
our slumbers we would hear delicous strains of
music wafted by the breeze over our quiet city
from some steamer passing up or down the
river, as they were frequently accompanied by
minstrels, sometimes colored people and their
music was perfectly enchanting—"Behold how
brightly breaks the morning," "The Cracovion
Maid" and "Home, Sweet Home," and in many
Ethiopean airs they excelled. The following
verse will,no doubt, remind many beside myself
of their most charming serandades—

"My skiff is by the shore
	She's light and free,
To ply the feathered oar
	Is joy to me,
And as she glides along,
	My song shall be,
Dearest maid, I love but thee!"

	Negro melodies are always sweet, and there
is something most exqusite in the sound of music
from the water.
	We hardly realized the extent of our bless-
ings there, until we came to this far off deso-
late looking country. For a number of years
my heart, despite of myself would yearn for the
green woods and hills and delightful vales that
we had been exiled from,and most of all was the

[Column 2]
view of the broad Mississippi, where we could
see and hear the the steamers as they plied up
and down its quiet bosom. We did not know
how to appreciate them,nor those beautiful rich
prairies covered, as far as the eye could reach,
with tall waving grass, and decked with wild
flowers of various hues, with occasional groves
and streams of water; nor the woodlands where
grew a variety of native fruits and nuts, so near
us that they could be had for the plucking;
but here we had to go to the canyons and climb
mountains to obtain the service [-]erry and the
few indigenous fruits of the country.
	The few old settlers in Commerce had an
abundance of Apples, Peaches and Cherries, etc.,
but we were not allowed to stay there long
enough to enjoy the fruit from our own or-
chards.
	Had it not been for my kindred ties, and
what was of still greater value, my religion, I
am sure that I could not have reconciled my-
self to remain in this dreary and out of the
way place, and there were many more who,
had it not been for their faith in the promises
of the Almighty, who they knew had guided
his servants here by revelation, could not have
held out under the many trials and privations
that they were subjected to. There were a
few whose faith failed them and they sought a
more congenial clime. During our long
journey here from Nauvoo, we had been accus-
tomed to noise and bustle of camp life, and
many a time I longed for some quiet spot where
I could enjoy a little solitude; but after our
journey was ended and the Saints began to
to scatter over the valley and our men were
all gone to work in the Canyons or digging
ditches, building, planting, or doing what ever
was necessary, we had quietness and solitude
to our hearts' content. No one who was able
to work could afford to be idle, but I had been
and was still very sick when we entered the
Valley and no one but my father thought it
possible for me to live, and it was my misfor-
tune to be an invalid for a number of years
after, and oh, those long quiet days, sometimes
it seemed to me they would never draw to a
close. We lived then where we do now near
the mouth of City Creek canyon, which was
really the most romantic and delightful spot in
the Valley; there were two branches that ran
through the city but after they were changed
and all the willows and wild rose bushes which
thickly covered them and kept the water cold
as it came down from the mountains were dug
away, there was nothing left to admire but the
rugged snow capped mountains or to relieve
the eye from the everlasting sage brush and
sun flowers. I remember with what joy I
welcomed the whistle of the locomotive on the
day that it first entered this Valley; the first
car, by the by, that I had ever seen or heard,
as the Latter-day Saints had moved westward
in advance of the railroads. There had been
one commenced at Quincy, Illinois, before we
came there from Missouri; but there was
nothing more done to it until after we left the
States.
	When I reflect upon the past scenes and
some of the incidents in the early history of
the Saints and draw the comparison between
then and now, and see their present prosperous
condition, with our beautiful cities and farms
with flocks and herds and rich pastures spread
over this once desolate land,I am led to exclaim,
Oh how weak and shortsighted we mortals are
and how much need there is for revelation from
a higher power than man to guide us. Could
anything of a worldly nature induce me now to
leave my home in this lovely City? No, I would
not exchange it and the peace that I enjoy with
this people for all there is east or west of these
Rocky Mountains; at least until the time
comes for Zion to return to inherit the lands
whence she was driven, for to her I can say:
"Whither thou goest, I will go; where thou

[Column 3]
lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my peo-
ple, and thy God my God."
	I seated myself to dot down incidents and
scenes in Nauvoo; but before I am aware of it I
find that my thoughts have carried me far away
from the subject: but to continue:
	Among the most pleasant of my early re-
membrances was the Nauvoo Brass Band
which was organized in the year 1842 by Bro-
ther William Pitt and also the Martial Band
under Bro. Levi W. Hancock and Dimick B.
Huntington, as Fife and Drum Major. Their
best drummer was Brother E. P. Dusette, with
whom we were previously acquainted in Far
West, Missouri. His performance on the drum-
I never saw equalled. Samuel D. Billings,
eldest son of Bro. Titus Billings was nearly as
good. In 1843, or near that time having be-
come a member of the choir, led by Stephen
Goddard, I became intimately associated with
the members of the choir and Brass Band in
the concerts of vocal and instrumental music
given in our Nauvoo Concert Hall. I shall
probably refer to them again, as we were asso-
ciated from that time and journeyed together
from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters.
			To be continued.


<gagar. andtiuns="" downnyour="" iace-="" you="" are="" not,as="" jwprpsswith="" the.="" beaqties.ttf="" wild="" ntuiorea,="" n="" ature="" thqpne="" ojsnottjiere.="" so="" we="" veri,="" dnougvmfsmblqriiiy.'the="" wagon,="" camprewr?,:="" bojces,.pails,opesj="" damp-="" kettles,="" babies="" and="" all.and="" rattle="" dismally="" down="" to="" $?&="" $!="" the="" watef’s="" eage.="" ,="" jiejfajge.="" ftmptyrpqm,="" pfiered="" us="" seemed="" a="" haven.pf="" restl-="" tlskawl="" whatif.="" ft="" was="" smoky="" an<tdirty.="" discovered="" an="" invalid="" bedstead,aiid="" mgehuityha'd="" it="" boanloon="" best="" of="" all,="" i="" did="" nof.7eak,..="" hereito="" ape="" safe,="" warm="" dry.="" thbre'were="" liiards,="" thd="" ‘bluff="" 'ao‘$n'6i-="" told="" us.="" “ouch,="" ouch,”="" uttered="" wo-="" men.="" “oh,="" whar8f-tkai”taid="" men,="" draw-="" jiogaheiy="" ftikcter="" taghay="" j<1="" svxlsq="" tfound="" that="" chance="" siirlrnaing="" across="" roof,="" sent="" dirt="" rattlingdown="" like="" hail.="" oh,well,="" got="" used-lo="" that,="" as.="" wellps="" piaster="" falling="" from="" stde="" wails'lnto'="" our="" food="" beds.="" arennr.="" necessity="" using="" broom="" semi-occaslonally,'="" out="" sugar,="" icandlekandictea,ihub="" ithecviewijs="" rsws$t,="" ijxrdotkdsmewiidctheairdaiajdgqtetiag.-="" so’me-="" tetimes-ieesaitqiaide;="" ithhfe="" areljbuf.iiicn’s="" lcsaddlek:(avbcatlthat)yahdweatebdtemu-="" jlate-anrni'aachliecmahneiij="" riding'="" gxcept="" uwheh="" alondnd="" away="" foohwobsersatioaj="" and,="" miahour.asyiridiag.animalshav'ecthosetiresome="" i.'sor-back’ioijoitii="" healthy,="" however="" io="" be="" vvjolted="">THE OTHER SIDE.

	I want to tell you a little of the prosy side
of our pictursque summer home resort. We
camped out in the pines when we first reached
the Lake, but the morning brought rain, steady.
drenching, penetrating rain. Camp-fires light-
ing up the beautiful scene, casting the shadows
of stately pines, and playing fitfully upon the
groups of lounging forms, around. But when
the rain puts out the coals, soaks the biscuts,
spoils the sugar and runs down your face you
are not as impressed with the beauties of wild
untutored nature as is the one who is not there.
So we were glad enough to scramble in the
wagon, camp chairs, boxes, pails, ropes, camp-
kettles, babies and all, and rattle dismally down
to where a few log cabins stand close to the
water's edge. The large empty room offered us
seemed a haven of rest. Pshaw! what if it was
smoky and dirty. We discovered an invalid
bedstead, and ingenuity and a few board soon
shaped another—the fireplace was large, and
best of all, it did not leak. Here we are safe,
warm and dry. There were lizards, the bluff
owner told us. "Ouch, ouch," uttered the wo-
men. "Oh, what of that," said the men, draw-
ing their feet closer together. We also found
that a chance squirrel running across the roof,
sent the dirt rattling down like hail. Oh,well,
we got used to that, as well as to the plaster
falling from the side walls into our food and
beds. We are under the necessity of using a
broom semi-occasionally. We are out of sugar,
candles and tea, but the view is sweet, the
mo[--] is new, and the air is invigorating. Some-
times we essay to ride; there are but men's
saddles (a favor at that), and we dare not emu-
late our masculines' manner of riding except
when alone and away from observation; and,
ah, our easy riding animals have those tiresome
sore backs. 'Tis healthy, however, to be
jolted. It is known here to have no wood, and
men out fishing on the lake. 'Tis there we rise
superior to the occasion, and raising up our
arms, we raise our muscle and hew the native
pine, and like our sister Lo, we are not grace
itself, but we cook the meal. Our health is
good, and so we sing. Our hearts are light.
and so we dance. Our fish is trout, and so we
eat. Our table's rickety, what matter. Our
skins are tanned, 'tis nothing. One night, our
merry Georgie took a ride, and, ah, when she
came back, we thanked our God. Far out up
in the lonely road, the horse lay dead and car-
riage splintered up, but she, our darling, lay
safe within our arms. And thus we live.
							HOMESPUN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 59


THE LITTLE WHITE-HAIRED
MOTHER.

	The first act of President Garfield, after his inaugura-
tion, was to salute with a kiss the dear and venerable
mother to whom he owed so much:

With sudden praise, a mighty voice
	Sweeps all the continent;
Helpless, before the people's choice,
	The statesman's wills have bent;
It honors first, before all other,
A patient "little white-haired mother."

The day has come—the hour draws near;
	Look on, the listening land:
Who brings this ruler, peer with peer?
	Who stays him, hand in hand?
Honored by him above all other,
He brings his "little white-haired mother."

The glittering embassies of kings
	Are standing in their state;
Their tributes rank as lesser things,
	They and their kingdoms wait;
While, reverently, before all other,
The ruler greets his "white-haired mother."

All states may grow, and men may gain,
	And power and riches swift increase.
The brunt of every country's strain,
	Its fight for purity and peace,
Comes through its husbands, daughters, brothers;
At last on patient "white-haired mothers."

—Philadelphia Friends' Intelligence, May 21, 1881.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHER OF PRESIDENT GAR-
FIELD.

[SELECTED.

	Her maiden name was Eliza Ballou. She is
a descendant of Maturin Ballou, a Huguenot
of France, who was driven from his country
upon the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
He joined the colony of Roger Williams, and
settled in America. He built a meeting place
at Cumberland, Rhode Island, which is still
carefully preserved as a relic of the past, and
is known as the Elder Ballou Meeting-house.
At the time it was built there was no saw-mills,
no nails, and few tools in the country. Its
galleries and pews, and even its floors, were
hewn out of the solid logs, and put together
with wooden pegs.
	Abraham Garfield and Eliza Ballou both
emigrated from the State of New York, and
were married in 1821. They had gone in 1830
to Orange, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, where a
year later their son James was born, being their
fourth child. Their log-house was built when
the heavy forest was but partly cleared away.
the fences were not yet made about the fields,
when the father, in fighting a forest fire that
threatened the destruction of their home, over-
heated himself, was suddenly chilled, and in a
few days died. His last words to his wife, as
he looked upon his children, were: "I have
planted four saplings in this forest, I must now
leave them to your care."
	A happier family never dwelt in a palace
than had been in that cabin home. Little
James was but eighteen months old when his
father died—too young to understand the irre-
parable loss, or feel the pangs of grief that well-
nigh crushed other hearts. The neighbors
came—only four or five in a radius of ten miles
—and wept with the widow and fatherless.
With their assistance the lifeless form was en-
closed in a rough coffin, and buried in a corner
of the wheatfield near by—no sermon, no
prayer, except the silent prayers that went up
from aching hearts. Winter was approaching.
Could human experience be more dreary than
a woman left a widow, alone with her children
in a wilderness swept by wintry storms? The
howl of the wolves and the cry of the panthers
never sounded so terrible as during those long
desolate winter nights. It seemed to the weary
ones that spring would never come again. But

[Column 2]
at last it did come, and swept away the snow
and ice. The dead things of the field and forest
returned to life; save only the dead in the cor-
ner of the wheatfield, and hope was not revived
in the cabin, There was no money in the
house, there was a debt on the farm; and the
food supply was limited.
	Then Eliza Garfield sought the advice of a
neighbor, who had been kind to her in time of
trouble. He advised her to sell the farm, pay
off the dept, and return to her friends, believing
it to be impossible for her to support herself
and children there. Her reply was character-
istic—"I can never throw myself and children
upon the charity of friends. So long as I have
health I believe my heavenly Father will bless
these two hands, and make them able to sup-
port my children. My dear husband made
this home at the sacrifice of his life, and every
log in this cabin is sacred to me now. It seems
to me a holy trust that I must preserve as faith-
fully as I would guard his grave."
	Her neighbor left her, and she went to the
Friend who never fails, and asked God to make
the way of duty clear to her. And when she
came from her place of prayer she felt that new
light and strength had been given to her.
	She called her eldest son, Thomas to her and,
though he was only a child ten years old, she
laid the whole case before him. With the
resolute courage of his race, he gladly promised
he wonld plow and sow, cut wood, and milk
the cows, if she would only keep the farm. So
this brave mother and son commenced their
work. She sold part of the farm, and paid
every dollar of debt. Thomas, procuring a
horse, plowed and sowed and planted. The
mother with her own hands split the rails and
completed the fencing.
	But the harvest was still far away, and corn
was running low. The mother carefully
measured her precious grain, counted the days
to the reaping time, and finding it would be ex-
hausted long before that time at their present
rate of consumption, she resolved to live on two
meals a day herself that her children might
not suffer. Then as the little store rapidly
disappeared, she ate but a single meal herself,
concealing her self-denial from her children,
until the blessed harvest brought relief." That
year it was very abundant, and the wolf of
hunger never came so near their door again.
	Still there were many years of hardship and
self-denial, in which the brave woman had to
be father and mother, teacher and preacher to
her children. She was the wise and tender
friend, guiding them in the right way, and in-
spiring them to choose the best things in life.
She still lives to see her great reward, and "her
children rise up, and call her blessed."


INTERESTING ITEMS.

	A few weeks ago, a gentleman in the city
bought and sent to a lady friend, "Wild Flow-
ers of Deseret." The lady and her relatives
are friends, through long years, of President
Garfield and his family. Her father is a min-
ister of the church to which President Gar-
field belongs. Here is the lady's reply, and it
has more than a personal interest. I send this,
copied from the original, which the gentleman
sent me.					Your Friend
DEAR FRIEND E.:
	I have gotten so in the way of talking with
you all in my quiet leisure, that I come now while
F. has her sister. You have indeed furnished
me a treat in this modest little book of poems.
This morning I had time to read "Friend." It
is beautiful. Unless you are familiar with the
book; you will not know what gives me plea-
sure. "Through the Storm" and "Ruthie's
Child" are full of sublimity. "Flowers" touch
the heart. "Women of Zion" has a history.
For what was that mass meeting called? Is it


true that the Mormons had no part in the Cen-
tennial? I hope you have one of these books,
and will read with me at the fourth verse:
		"But we the outcast heirs,"etc.
	I thought of those exiles fleeing from before
persecution at Nauvoo, and earlier from Kirt-
land, so near my home. As I crossed the
country on the iron tramway, in many places
I could see the emigrant trail. At Salt Lake,
looked toward the city, 37 miles away. Thought
much all the live long way. Said of course
no woman could escape from that place if she
wanted to ever so much; but now the iron horse
is ready, harnessed and bridled. She can go if
she wants to. The faith born of persecution,
privations and perils, such as the early
pioneer Mormon women endured is a thorough
faith. I do not wonder that Brig-
ham Young is a power to them, but
what is their belief? I am becoming
strangely interested in this people; begin to
think there is some good "in Nazareth yet." If
you see the author of this little book, or her
husband, tell them I have taken comfort in
reading it; that I think it the production of a
good, pure mind; that it would be a pleasure
for me to take her by the hand as we move on-
ward to the Celestial Land.
		MARY W.
	We trust our readers will be pleased to know
the little book of poems, "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," has found appreciative readers
abroad. It certainly has merit, and will yet
find its way into many hearts and homes.﻿


&nbsp;QUEEN VICTORIA’S CROWN.

	The following description of Queen Victoria’s
crown has been furnished by Professor Ten-
nant, mineralogist to the Queen:
	The-Imperial State Crown of Queen Victoria
was made by Messrs. Rundel and Bridge, in
the year, 1838, with jewels taken from old
crowns, and furnished by command of Her
Majesty. It consists of diamonds, pearls, rubies,
sapphires, and emeralds, set in silver and gold.
It has a crimson velvet cap,with ermine border,
and is lined with white silk. Its gross weight
is thirty ounces, five pennyweights troy. The
lower part of the ermine border, consists of a
row of one hundred and twenty-nine pearls,and
the upper part of the band a row of one hun-
dred and twelve pearls, between which, in front
of the crown, is a large sapphire, partly drilled,
purchased for the crown by King George IV.
At the back are the sapphires, three on each
side, between them are eight emeralds. Above
and below the seven sapphires are fourteen
diamonds, and around the eight emeralds one
hundred and twenty-eight diamonds. Between
the emeralds and the sapphires are sixteen
trefoil ornaments, containing one hundred and
sixty diamonds. Above the band are eight
sapphires, surrounded by eight diamonds, be-
tween which are eight festoons, consisting of
one hundred and forty-eight diamonds. In
the front of the crown, and in the center of a
large Maltese cross, is the famous ruby said to
have been given to Edward, Prince of Wales,
son of Edward III.—called the Black Prince.
							—Selected


The heart is the only thing that is better by
being broken. -Persian Proverb.

	That which is the truth teaches the doctrine
of love to all persons, but by virtue of that
love it teaches also to hate the errors which
mislead and the delusions which blind
them. The truth, therefore, is necessarily ex-
clusive of its opposite; and to propose a peace
between them is simply a disguised mode of
proposing to truth suicide, and obtaining for
falsehood victory. —Gladstone


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1881.


THE PRESIDENT. 

	Everything connected with President Garfield
is intensely interesting at the present time to all
loyal Americans and to many others. The news-
papers were never so watched for unless in the
recent war as they are now. Yet the telegrams
are nearly all unsatisfactory and sometimes
one cannot help feeling they are also unreliable,
for the most contradictory reports are occasion-
ally received; one day one will become quite
elated with the idea of his speedy recovery and
the next feel he is sure to die. Strange, too, that
it was never even hinted before that the White
House was unhealthy; others seemed to thrive
exceedingly well in the malarial atmosphere if
such it be. If President Garfield had not been
wounded, the people would probably have been
in blessed ignorance yet of the unhealthy home
of the Chief Executive of the Republic.
	However, we are very glad President Garfield
has succeeded in his wish or desire to go to Long
Branch and sincerely hope the sea breeze will
prove invigorating to the Nation's invalid. The
latest news seems more favorable to his recovery
than any of recent date. To be able to sit up
even in an invalid's chair is encouraging, and
savors of convalescence. President Garfield has
shown himself a truly brave man by his patient
endurance of pain and confinement. It is hard
for a strong, active man to be laid low without
a moment's warning, and that he has never com-
plained or manifested feelings of hatred or re-
venge, endears him a thousand times more to his
friends and countrymen, as well as givi[-]g them
assurance he is not only a man of nerve and
great nobility of character, but patient, capable
of wonderful endurance and withal, a sincere
Christian.
	But what of the wife and mother, have they
not also suffered? Yes, if not physically, men-
tally and spiritually, this suffering must have
at times been terrible. But there are now strong
grounds for hope of speedy relief and restora
tion, yet not without doubts and misgivings in
the minds of those best acquainted with actual
facts. Still, the country stands as it were, and
waits for the issue. Life and death are in the
hands of Him, who knows what is best and who
doeth all things well.


[Column 1]
LOGAN AND OGDEN CONFERENCES.

	The Relief Society Stake Conference was held
in Logan, Cache County, Saturday and Sunday,
September 3 and 4, Mrs. Libbie B. Benson pre-
siding. President Wm. Preston and Counselor
Card were on the stand, ladies from Salt Lake,
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, E. Howard and
E. B. Wells, and there was a large attendance
of brethren and sisters; the large and commo

[Column 2]
dious building was well fillled, both in the main
hall and galleries. Prest. Preston made a few
exceedingly appropriate and suggestive remarks
on Saturday, On Sunday a Stake organization
was effected of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations of Cache County. Mrs.
Harriet A. Preston was nominated and sus-
tained as President, Miss Ida Ione Cook and
Mrs. Kenna B. Caine, Counselors, Allie Preston,
Secretary, and Kate Smith, Treasurer. Follow-
ing this, a Stake organization of the Primary
Associations was effected, by electing Mrs. Jane
E. Molen, of Hyde Park, President, Mrs. Ade-
line Barber, Smithfield, and Mrs. Mattie B.
Hanson, of Logan, Counselors, Lavinia Perry,
Secretary, and Ellen Lundberg, Treasurer. Af-
ter the close of the meeting these sisters were
blest and set apart to fill the office and calling
for which each one had been chosen, by Prest.
Preston and his Counselor, L. O. Card. The
Societies and Associations of Cache County are
now fully organized.
	At five o'clock p.m. a Primary Conference
was held in the Tabernacle. A large number of
children were assembled, two or three hundred;
Prest. Preston and other leading brethren were
present, and a large number of sisters. Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith conducted the meeting, and
gave much good instruction to the little folks.
Sisters Wells and Howard addressed them for a
short time. There was some delightful singing
by the children at the close, from a class under
the teaching of Bro. Stevens, about one hun-
dred and fifty joining in the choruses.
	On Monday the sisters drove over to Wells-
ville, held a special meeting at 4 o'clock p.m.,
and Sister E. R. S. Smith organized a Primary
Association with one hundred and two names
enrolled. Mrs. Maria Parkinson was elected
President, Sarah Jones and Emily Baugh, Coun-
selors, Kate Brown, Secretary, Charles Brad-
shaw, Assistant Secretary, and Jane Maughan,
Treasurer.
	On Thursday morning, Sept. 8, Weber Stake
Relief Society Conference convened in the Og-
den Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Prest. D. H. Peery and Coun. C. F. Mid-
dleton were in the stand, also Mrs. Richards,
Counselor Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society of
Gentile Valley, and Mrs. Eliza R. S. Smith,
Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. Sisters were assembled there from
all parts of Weber Stake. Minutes were read,
also written reports. Sister E. R. S. S. ad-
dressed the sisters a few minutes upon subjects
connected with the work in which they were
engaged.
	Prest. Peery spoke in a forcible and impressive
manner on the educating and training of chil-
dren, and gaining intelligence by reading the
news of the day and other kindred subjects,
the bountiful harvest, the signs of the times, &c.
Sisters E. B. W. and Jane S. Richards each
made a few remarks, and meeting adjourned
until afternoon.
	In the afternoon session Sister E. R. S. S. was
the first speaker. She made an eloquent address
on the suffrage, and appealed earnestly to the
ladies to exercise the privilege of the ballot;
many other subjects were also alluded to.
	Sister E. Howard spoke at considerable length
upon plural marriage, domestic life, the growth
of intelligence, and the suffrage in woman's
hands, its influence and power.
	Elder E. S. Richards spoke of the great change
that had taken place in the world since the
question of woman's position had been before
the public, the growth of opinions, the breadth
of intelligence; felt it was not only a blessing to
all, but was essential to the advancement and
progress of the human family that woman's

[Column 3]
political rights should be recognized. The con-
dition of woman now was very different to what
it had been, not only in Utah, where we have
the suffrage, but in several of the States where
they have school suffrage.
	Sister Sarah S. Richards said all the intelli-
gence we gain here we shall take with us, and it
will rise with us in the morning of the resur-
rection. Said, "let us set a good example before
all, speak kind words, give to the poor, and do
our duty in all places; go to the polls and vote,
as we would perform any other duty.
	Sister H. C. Brown made a few spirited re-
marks, and presented the names of the presid-
ing board of the Relief Society to the Confer-
ence, Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, President, Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Counselors.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith then presented the
names of the presiding board of Weber Stake,
who were unanimously sustained. Conference,
closed.
	Friday morning the Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. convened at the same place, Mrs. Sarah
A. Herrick presiding. Dr. Romania B. Pratt
and Mrs. Louie B. Felt, of Salt Lake City, were
present. Minutes were read and reports from
the several branch Associations. These reports
showed that good work had been done by the
young ladies. Home reading was also repre-
sented, which gave number of Bible chapters
5,393, Book of Mormon 1,454, Sections in Doc-
trine and Covenants 819, Miscellaneous 5,394.
One Society reported. testimonies borne 140,
chapters in history read in meeting 460, essays
written 12. The speakers who occupied the re-
mainder of the forenoon and the afternoon were
Sisters S A. Herrick, E. R. S. Smith, S. S.
Richards, L. Felt, R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells,
E. Howard and J. S. Richards, respectively,
who gave excellent instruction to the young la-
dies, urging them to diligence, warning them of
evil and temptation, and encouraging them to
persevere in the way of well-doing.

PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	On Saturday morning a beautiful sight was
presented—the large Tabernacle nearly filledwith beautiful, intelligent looking children, Mrs.
Josephine R. West presiding. After the exer-
cises of singing and prayer had been conducted,
the children all joining in the hymns, exercises
were rendered by some one or more of the mem-
bers from each Primary represented in the Con-
ference. The children acquitted themselves ex-
ceedingly well in their respective parts, in recit-
ing, singing, or playing. The presidents also
deserve great credit for their perseverance and
tact in bringing them forward as well as they
have done since the organization begun. The
sisters present made some short and interesting
speeches, and asked some questions, which were
very well answered from the audience.
	Mrs. Josephine R. West, who presides over
the P. A. of Weber Stake, spoke to the children
about their Fair, which is to be held in Ogden,
City 23d and 24th of September, in the Fire-
man's Hall. Conference was adjourned, and
the benediction pronounced by Master Johnnie
Hill.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Our editorial of August 15 called forth from
some of the active workers in woman's suffrage
considerable comment, and we have received
letters from a couple of very intelligent ladies
on the subject. One thing we would say in re-
ply is that although the ladies have had the
privilege of voting in Utah eleven years, yet it
cannot be expected that every one is so far con-


verted to the idea as to be always on hand and
diligent in the performance of this duty, any
more than other duties, which have been better
understood, and are no doubt by many more
highly appreciated. Therefore it becomes neces-
sary to talk a great deal on the subject, and also
to write and publish, "to stir up their pure
minds by way of remembrance" No doubt it
will always have to be done, the masses of the
people are inclined to forgetfulness in regard to
many things. People everywhere are apt to be
unmindful of those things that are not every 
day occurrences; and for that reason, we remark-
ed it would be well to have those telling words,
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,"
framed and hung up in every dwelling.
	Miss Anthony says: "In short it must become
fashionable for women to attend school meetings
as well as the polls—before any considerable
numbers in Utah, or anywhere else, will assert
their constitutional rights." She also says: "I
believe the secret cause of this lack of interest
and consequent effort on the part of women is
their utter hopelessness of making any changes,
however much they may desire them. Men
have so long had absolute control, and though
the right to vote is conceded, every activity of
woman to shape matters in the primary meet-
ings and nominating conventions is still deemed
an obstrusion on her part, and made the subject
of disagreeable comment, in a way that intimi-
dates her from interfering in caucuses, and fail-
ing to shape matters there, it is of little or no
use to rush to the ballot box to help one or the
other set of candidates into office, neither of
which are pledged to the great reforms she deems
most important to the well-being of society."
	In Utah, we beg leave to say to Miss
Anthony and others, that women who 
have taken the liberty (if it be a liberty
to make use of the privilege conceded) to attend
primary meetings, school meetings, or con-
ventions, have been most politely treated, invit-
ed to speak and express opinions. Some have
been placed on nominating committees, and in
many precincts women have been chosen as del-
egates to county conventions, and also have been
chosen as delegates to territorial conventions.
Every office open to woman, she has been al-
lowed to occupy, but the statutes of Utah still
exclude woman from offices of trust or emolu-
ment. It is well known to Miss Anthony, Miss
Gage and others of the leading ladies in the suf-
frage movement, that at two successive sessions
of the Legislature of Utah, a bill has been pre-
sented to remove the only obstacle now in the
way to women's equality before the law in the
government of this Territory. The failure has
been due to the refusal of the Governor to ex-
tend the courtesy of his signature, and thus it
stand to-day. Whether the present incumbent
will be more liberal in his views and allow the
male to be expunged as regards the matter of
holding office, remains to be proved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. J. S. Richards are
in Brigham City attending the Ladies' Confer-
ences of that Stake of Zion.

	THE Primary Associations of North Ogden
will hold a Children's Fair in that place on
Wednesday, Sept. 21. Many very pretty and
useful articles have been made there for exhibi-
tion. 

	BRIGHAM Young College, in Logan, Cache
Co., Miss Ida Ione Cook Principal, opened on
Monday, Sept. 5, with more pupils than at any
previous commencement, and with a good pros-
pect of being well filled in a few days.


THE Logan Temple is progressing rapidly. It
stands upon a high eminence, and may be seen
from all the surrounding settlements.
	YESTERDAY Mrs. E. R. S. Smith, Phebe Wood-
ruff and E. B. Wells left on a tour through San-
pete County; intended holding meeting at Nephi
last evening, and go on to Moroni to-day, where
the Sisters' Stake Conference is to be held.
	THE large brick building in Ogden City, known
as the Central School, is a very handsome and
commodious structure, and gives Ogden some
prestige in the matter of school houses. We
understand there is an excellent graded school
there, under the management of Prof. Monch.
	THE National Citizen and Ballot Box for Au-
gust contains many newspaper notices from the
very best papers published of the "History of
Woman's Suffrage from 1830 to 1880." As we
have not seen a copy of the book yet, we beg to
be excused from expressing an opinion (by the
by we are notified there is one on the way for
our sanctum), though we believe from our know-
ledge of the subject and of the authors, it is a
book that might be safely recommended to all,
both for home libraries and public ones also.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret P.
Young attended the annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society of Brighton Ward on Thursday,
Sept. 8. Mrs. Mary A. Hazon presiding. 

	THE Secretaries of the Primary Associations,
of Salt Lake Co. are expected to forward a semi-
annual report to the Stake Secretary, Vilate C.
Young, in good time for the Conference.

	THE Stake Secretary of Y. L. M. I. A. wishes
all reports from the several secretaries forwarded
as soon as posssble, that they may be in good
time for the Conference Saturday, September 24,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.

	THE Conference of the Primary Associations
of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Saturday morning, Sept. 24,
and it is earnestly desired there should be as
large an attendance of the Associations as possi-
ble from all the wards and settlements.

	IN answer to the many inquiries, made con-
cerning the little book prepared by Sister E. R.
S. Smith for the use of the Primary Associa-
tions, entitled “Questions and Answers,” we
would say, it is in the hands of the publishers at
the “Juvenile Instructor” office, and due notice
will be given when it is ready for sale.

	SECRETARY Sarah M. Kimball desires the
Stake Secretaries to forward semi-annual reports
as early as possible, other wise a complete general
report cannot be prepared for the October Con-
ference, proximo. Morgan and Bear Lake are
the only Stakes from which reports have been
received up to this date, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 1881.

	THE Secretary of the Central Board Y. L. M.
I. A. specially desires Stake Secretaries of Y. L.
M. I. A. in all the various Stakes of Zion to
send full reports immediately to her, that she
may prepare complete statistics for the coming
October Conference. Those who have sent re-
ports from date of organization, need only fur-
nish from date of last report. Direct to Louie
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. Please be prompt, and give special
attention to all particulars.

	BY courtesy of the Salt Lake Herald Publish-
ing Company, we have received the Fair
Pamphlet, containing over 70 pages of cuts and
lists of prizes to be awarded at the coming fair
of the Deseret and Agricultural Manufacturing.


Society, commencing on the 3rd day of October,
1881. The book is got up in a neat and compre-
hensive style. Ladies' Work on page 55 includes
almost everything, and it is to be hoped that the
young ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity will
make a good showing of these classes of work;
and also in art and other departments in which
they have an opportunity to compete.


﻿OBITUARY.

	Died, in the 10th Ward, Salt Lake City, Au-
gust 18th, 1881, of cholera infantum and teeth-
ing, Don Carlos Bailey, son of S. H. B. and
Mary C. Smith, aged 9 months and 27 days. His
last words were “mamma, mamma.”

Don Carlos, thou wert dear and precious;
	Thou hast gone in peace to rest.
But again I'll have my treasure
	When “mamma” is spared the best. 

Don Carlos, now I say farewell;
	My love for thee death cannot sever;
And when we meet in heaven to dwell,
	We'll meet to part no more forever.
					MARY C. SMITH.


﻿LYDIA GOMBER.

	In the 16th Ward of this city, Wednesday,
July 27th, 1881, about midnight, Miss Lydia
Gomber passed peacefully away to her rest, after
a lingering and painful illness of some months.
	Sister Lydia was born in what was then known
as Albany township, Berks County, Pennsylva-
nia, January 9, 1806. She was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints, in
the summer of 1857, in the city of Philadelphia,
by Elder Angus M. Cannon, who was then
President of the Conference in that locality. The
lady emigrated to Utah in 1859, bringing with
her a younger sister, and has resided in this 
city ever since. Her death leaves her sister en-
tirely alone. The two lived together for many
years. The separation was painful, but He who
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb will not for-
get the lonely and sorrowing ones, and will min-
ister consolation in the hours of deepest trial.
	The funeral was held at the residence of the
deceased, on Friday, July 29th, 1881, and the
most intimate friends and some acquaintances
of the lady were present. The Bishop's Coun-
selor, Theodore McKean, took charge of the ser-
vices, and good music was furnished by the 16th
Ward choir. The speakers were Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselor D. H. Wells, both of
whom had known Sister Gomber for many
years, and testified to her excellent character,her
sterling integrity and many virtues. She was a
woman of few words, but sound in her judg-
ment and had great energy and perseverance,
and an earnest desire to help in building up the
kingdom of God upon the earth. Her faith was
firm, and she died in the full hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	May the divine consolation of the Holy Spirit
rest down upon her aged sister, who is left to
mourn, and may she realize the truth of these
precious lines:
	"When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go,
	The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'er flow;
	For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,
	And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress."
								E. B. W.


INDUSTRIAL PRIMARY FAIR.

	The Children's Fair for the Primary Associa-
tions of Salt Lake County will be held in the
Social Hall in this city, commencing on Thurs-
day, the 22d inst., and continue three days. It
will be held under the auspices of the President,
Mrs. E. C. Clawson, and her assistants. On


Tuesday and Wednesday, September 20 and 21,
it is expected all the articles prepared for the ex-
hibition will be brought in, ticketed with the
name and age of the child, and the Ward, or
place, to which he or she belongs. Such articles
as bread, cake, pie, preserves, etc., also vegeta-
bles or flowers, must be brought in on the last
day. It is anticipated that the President, or one
of her Counselors, of each Association, will take
charge of her respective department in the Fair,
in order to prevent any confusion. Price of ad-
mission will be, adults ten cents, children five
cents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Secretaries of the various Primary Associa-
tions are requested to send reports to their re-
spective Stake Secretaries, who are earnestly
desired to forward Stake Reports immediately,
to be presented at the October Conference.
Stake Secretaries who have furnished complete
reports from date of organization, need only send
from date of former statistics. All others will
forward full particulars from date of organiza-
tion.
					LILLIE FREEZE,
	Secretary Central Board Primary Association.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Societies and Primary Associa-
tions of the Bear Lake Stake held a Confer-
ence at Ovid on the 27th and 28th of August.
The attendance was very good, and we were
much blessed with the presence of the good
Spirit.
	We were favored with the company of Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor from Salt
Lake City. Their instructions to the sisters,
both young and old, were very appropriate
and remarkably clear, and will doubtless be
long remembered.
	The Young Ladies' Associations have for
some time past been holding their Conferences
in conjunction with the Young Men's M. I.
Associations, but they were advised to meet in
Conference hereafter with the Relief Societies.
The reports given by the Ward Presidents
were generally encouraging, and showed that
much interest was taken by the sisters in as-
sisting to accomplish the purposes of our Hea-
venly Father.
	President Wm. Budge also favored us with
his company during both days and made some
very interesting repmarks.
	Presidents Julia Lindsay and Elizabeth Col-
lings made some instructive remarks, each ex-
pressing their good feelings and satisfaction
with the meetings, and that there were present
so many brethren to encourage them in their
labors.
	Sister Annie Laker, President of the Pri-
mary Associations, and Counselor E. Pugmire
and others also occupied some time in making
some very kind and profitable remarks.
	We had altogether a pleasant and encourag-
ing time.
	JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Secy.

	The Ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms convened
as usual Saturday afternoon, Sept. 10th, at 2
p.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
	Sister Horne was the first speaker. She re-
ferred to the recent visit of herself and Sister
E. S. Taylor to Bear Lake Valley; spoke of
the interest the brethren manifested there in
leaving their harvesting and coming over 20
miles to attend the sisters' two days Confer-

[Column 2]

ence, which was held at Ovid; the brethren
built a bowery in which to hold the meetings.
Sister Taylor, when with her, was taken sick, and
she held meetings at Bloomington, St. Charles
and Liberty, without her help. Said she knew
of no other young ladies more wide awake than
the President and her two counselors of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Bear Lake Stake; gave much
good spiritual instruction.
	Minutes of Primary Associations of the 11th
and 20th Wards were read.
	Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson made some re-
marks and announced that the Primary Fair
would be held in the Social Hall, Sept. 22, 23
and 24. Said she would like each ward or
settlement designated by its own banner and
in charge of its respective president. There
would be some considerable expenses, and
should charge 10 cents for adults and 5 cents
for children. Would like all articles brought
in the Tuesday and Wednesday previous. "If
we have a Fair next year, we shall give a prize
to the little girl who will make the best bread."
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made a few remarks and
said she realized the judgments of God were
being poured upon the earth; rejoiced in the
principles of the gospel.
	Mrs. M. P. Young said let us speak of the
good in each other and bury those things that
are evil; it is good to treasure up precious
things.
	Sister P. Kimball thought the sovereign of
the throne of England did not enjoy the peace
within her soul that was enjoyed by the daugh-
ters of Zion, the hand-maidens of the Lord.
"Look at our homes and fields. Would we
have thought when this Church was organized
of the positions women occupy to-day. My
duties are among the daughters of Zion. Some-
times I look beyond the veil toward those who
have gone before us, and wish to live to do a
work in the Temple for those who were mine
before the gospel came to me.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she could not add
much to what had been said by Sister Horne
concerning the visit north, but felt that the
country people were very diligent; said also
she feared many of the Saints would be slum-
bering when the Bridegroom came, like the
foolish virgins. By our works would we be
judged.
	Sisters Ann Brimley, Sinah Bishop, Caro-
line Raleigh, Martha B. Young, L. Greene
Richards and Julia Howe each made a few in-
teresting remarks and bore faithful testimo-
nies of the truth.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
Sister Julia Howe.

TOOELE STAKE

	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze and Miss Mattie Horne,
of this city, attended the Ladies' Conference
of Tooele Stake, Saturday and Sunday, on
the last day they were joined by Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, also of
this city.
	On Saturday morning, September the
10th, the Primary Conference was held
was held, many brethren being present. Min-
utes of the previous Conference were read, also
written reports from the adjacent settlements,
followed by exercises from the children, among
which was a list of very suitable and interest-
ing questions, which were promptly answered
by the little folks. The best of order prevailed
during the meeting.
	In the afternoon, the Relief Society
held their Conference in the Meeting
House in Tooele, presided over by Pres. Mrs.
M. A. Hunter. The brethren were in atten-
dance and encouraged the sisters greatly. Min-
utes of previous Conference and reports were
read, and the various branch Societies were
represented verbally. The officers of the Cen-
tral Stake organization of Relief Society were

[Column 3]

sustained by the Conference. The remainder
of the time was occupied in speaking on sub-
jects connected with Relief Society work,
storing grain, etc.
	The Stake Conference Y. L. M. I. A. con-
vened in the evening. An excellent spirit and
feeling prevailed, and quite young ladies, who
were called upon to speak, acquitted themselves
admirably. Minutes and reports were very
interesting, and showed that the Associations
were in good condition. Many young brethren
attended the meeting and seemed especially in-
terested.
	The next morning the sisters from Salt Lake
City attended the Sunday School, and after
listening to the usual exercises, addressed the
children. The Sunday School was very in-
teresting indeed, and the children seemed to
be making rapid improvement.
	In the afternoon, after the Sacrament was
administered, the Relief Society Conference
was continued. Sisters Grant, Kimball, Freeze
and Horne were invited to speak, and much
good instruction was given to mothers, and to
the young people. There was a large congre-
gation assembled, and a good spirit was plainly
manifest. The sisters returned home feeling
well pleased with the visit and the good which
had been accomplished.


THE INFLUENCES OF HOME.

	What tender emotions cling about the word
home! What depths of human feeling are
stirred by the ba[-]e mention of the word!
Home is the place to which one ever turns in-
stinctively in times of trial, of sorrow, or ad-
versity. "Home is home, be it ever so homely,"
is one of the truest of homely phrases. Home
should be a place of happiness; that is, such
happiness as mortals may enjoy in this life; and
when it is really so, how doubly precious and
significant is the term. Home is said to be
where the heart is, and home is not home if
peace does not dwell there, and tranquility and
such influences as promote and strengthen the
growth of virtue and the elevation of charac-
ter. Home to us seems a real place of dwell-
ing, not a temporary shelter, which may be
changed every month; such is not THE HOME
one can turn to with strength of affection, and
cling to as the foundation of character. Home
is the place with which we were familiar in
the days of our youth, when we experienced
the joys and sorrows, the mortifications and
disappointments of childhood; where we were
taught the principles which tended to exalt
and strengthen character. The very nature
of one's surroundings have the most powerful
tendency over them, and the effect of scenery
upon character is a noticeable feature in the
history of nations. Those who dwell in cer-
tain localities partake of the nature of the
country, it is inherent in their very being, and
develop certain characteristics that impress
all their after life. Much depends upon home
discipline, the habits inculcated with tender
years, the principles taught at the mother's
knee, the impression made in such a way, at
times of quiet thought and restfulness, are al-
most ineffaceable throughout all time.
	Confidence in the home among the inmates
is one of the firmest pillars of strength in the
structure of the character of the young. The
father and mother must have the confidence of
the child, if they would keep him from the
paths of evil, for however pure the home may
be, evil exists outside, and the moment the
child steps out from that home influence, he
must meet it. It is for this the little child
must be strengthened, and in no way can he so
well be protected from, or helped in resisting
evil, as by having the full confidence of the
parents, to go to father or mother in any
doubt, or when tempted to do wrong


If the child feels there is perfect sympathy
or harmony between father and mother, there
will be a greater power for good, [---] organ-
ization of that child. Those who do no[----]
to have settled homes, but live in hotels or
lodgings, have very little idea, it seems to me,
of the impression made upon character by the
social influences of home and its appointments
and surroundings.
	Mothers cannot be too careful of the home-
life; children are very keen-eyed, very watch-
ful. They soon discover any discrepancy, any
lack of duty or respect from any one member
of the family towards another, and although
there are none of us perfect in this life; in fact
all are very imperfect, yet it is much better to
show a spirit of humility and forbearance
even towards our children than to attempt to
conceal or disguise that which is likely to mis-
lead or destroy confidence in the family rela-
tions.
	I do not think too much can be said of home
influences, for it is the homes of the people
that elevate the nation. We can never attain
any great degree of progression, as a people,
without neat, orderly, healthy, well-regulated
homes; those countries where strife, confusion
and oppression are the ruling elements have
miserable homes.
	The more refined the home,the more intense-
ly cultivated in heart and soul the inmates of
that household, and all who associate there
partake of that refining, elevating, purifying
influence, and the dwellers in that home carry
that elevation into other homes.

	"The world has nothing to bestow;
	From our own selves our joys must flow,
	And that dear hut—our home."

	Let mothers encourage their sons to have
homes of their own, be they ever so lowly and
humble; if love be the inmate, if sweet peace
and contentment sit with the happy pair by the
fireside; if the young couple work together to
promote each other's interest and enjoyment, the
poorest dwelling is a happier home than the
grandest palatial residence of the rich without
these essential elements of human happiness.

	"Domestic happiness! thou only bliss
	Of paradise that has survived the fall."

	How man are there who have lived a long
and useful life, who began with almost nothing,
but by energy and perseverance made them-
selves a home, perhaps built it with their own
hands, planted the trees, and watched them
year after year as they grew to maturity, and
as time rolled on, gathered little by little
the comforts and elegancies of prosperity in a
home where in the evening of life they may
rest after the struggles with labor and toil are
over.						AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


HOME.

	Home, is the place to become refined, the
place to cultivate the mind, the place where
peace should always reign, and love and virtue
have dominion. Oh, how that one word Home,
strikes upon the tender chords of affection and
seems to awaken a memory of all the scenes of
life through which we have passed. Home
the place of our birth, the place where life
began, the place where we spent childhood's
happy hours, and many of the joys of youth.
'Twas also there where our sorrows began,
where we saw our innocent, childlike day-
dreams of the future vanish away, and we
learned the first lesson of the realites of life;
'twas there our characters were formed, and to
home we owe our reputation [--] was there we
learned to lisp our first prayer and to place
our trust in him, who rules and governs all
things, 'twas there we began to exercise the
talents which the Lord had given us, and our
minds began to expand and we began to grasp
after knowledge and understanding, 'twas there


<f strewn="" alashas="" oar-joy="" ,is,="" jncr.easednur="" sjorri)="" yjvnmu="" i,-="" -="" retnexhbef="" fhfit="" their;="" -stem's="" are="" jxnyyyi="" .though="" --they="" mayh.enonceafedbeneatlx="" )qauti="" ful;="" leaves.="" c...........................xij="" ei="" ay.="" i<="" div="">in youth that we looked forward with bright
hopes, to womanhood and thought that when
we arrive at that point all would be pleasure
and happiness. But as we advanced on the
journey of life and drew nearer to that era in
woman's life we began to realize that roses grew
on briery shrubs and with the flowers we found
the thorns. As it is through all the journey of
life, joy and sorrow are intermingled together,
and where good as well as evil always presents
itself but now as we glance back over the beauti-
ful hilltops of memory to behold the home of our
childhood and pathway of youth nothing but
the beautiful flowers and evergreens appear.
Memory has cast over the pathway a carpet
of green and all nature is covered with beauti-
ful foliage as we look back 'tis grand to be-
hold. Yet we know the thorns were also there,
for as we passed along they often pierced our
tender flesh and sometimes even our hearts and
had it not have been for that good spirit, the
guardian angel who bade us take courage and
live for something more noble and sublime than
this world could produce, we might have shrunk
from duty and sunk down by the way side to
spend our lives in folly seeking the vain things
of this life which would have produced, a multi-
tude of thorns to pierce us in eternity, but
those little trials that so sorely vexed us have
all been for our good and will no doubt prove
a blessing to us throughout all our existence,
and again as we look forward to gaze upon
scenes yet future hope brightens every object
that presents itself to view.
	Our future home appears in the distance
brightened with fresh rays of sunshine very
elegantly adorned and all the luxuries of life
abound there, the path appears to be strewn
with flowers we quicken our pace and hasten
on to obtain that long wished for treasure but
alas! as our joy is increased our sorrow is mul-
tiplied. So remember young friends as you
proceed on the journey of life, and extend your
hand to grasp those roses the pleasures of life,
remember that their stems are briery, though
they may be concealed beneath beautiful leaves.
								L. E. W.


ARTISTIC NEEDLE WORK.

	Among other revivals of the olden time we
notice that of artistic needle-work. It was
the favorite occupation many years ago of fe-
male royalty and ladies of high degree. Years
were spent in ornamental tapestry, and to excel
in work of this sort was deemed one of the
highest accomplishments. It is now being re-
vived as an industrial occupation for women.
We clip the following notice from one of our
Exchanges, which may be interesting to those
who admire exquisite work with the needle:
	"The New York Sun says that very few
persons are aware of the extent to which art
needlework and art decoration are now culti-
vated in that city. The Society of Associated
Artists, which includes among its members
some of the best-known names of American
painters and sculptors, now opens a wide field
for the employment of women of artistic taste
and talent. The enormous prices that are
cheerfully paid by men of large wealth for the
beautifying of their city and country homes,
has made it quite worth while for artists of no
mean reputation to turn their thoughts from
the production of unsalable oil and water-color
pictures to the frescoing of ceilings, the design-
ing of wall-papers, and, above all, to the execu-
tion of picturesque hangings and curtains for 
theatres, club-rooms and private dwellings up
town. The hangings and wall decorations for
the drawing-room of Cornelius Vanderbilt's
new house are already in the hands of Louis
C. Tiffany's large corps of lady embroiderers,
under the management and superintendance of
Mrs. Wheeler and Miss Cutler. For this one


room alone Mr. Vanderbilt has agreed to pay
from $8,000 to $10,000, the magnitude of which
sum will give some idea of the expenditure of
time, talent, and labor involved. The hang-
ings of the Union League Club House and the
curtains of the Madison Square Theatre, which
is, perhaps, the most beautiful specimen of art
needlework in the world, were designed and
executed by the above named ladies, with the
assistance of the band of artists who work
under them, To Mr. Lafarge has been con-
fided the manufacture of the portieres and cur-
tains for Mr. Vanderbilt's library and dining
room, and the full sized cartoons elaborately
drawn and painted, which are to serve as mod-
els to the ladies who are to reproduce them on
silks, satins and velvets, will soon be ready for
inspection in Miss Tillinghast's studio.—Ex.


INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CON-
GRESS.

	The International Medical Congress com-
menced its sittings by a meeting in St. James's
Hall, on August 3d. With that contemptuous
gallantry towards women which is the distinc-
tive feature of the English branch of the Med-
ical Profession (though even in England there
are some honoarable exceptions), it was express-
ly ruled that ladies should only be invited by
the reception committee to attend the social
meetings, and rigidly excluded from the sec-
tions. We have no special objection to
the exclustion of the general public, pro-
vided such exclusion be impartially carried
out—though, even in this case, many of the
sections treat of questions which would be
deeply interesting to the non-professional hear-
er. Section XIII. in State Medicines had sub-
jects, every one of which is of general import-
ance, such as how to prevent the diffusion of
various diseases from country to country, and
Section VIII., which deals with mental dis-
eases, discussed problems which greatly con-
cern all philanthropists, such as new legal codes
as part of asylum treatment, cottage and vil-
lage treatment, the civil condition of the in-
sane, and the question of special asylums for
insane criminals. If, however, the Profession
claim their right to exclude the non-profession-
al public, they have no right to carry this ex-
clusion to the lawfully-graduated and diplo-
maed women doctors. This is the seventh In-
ternational Congress; the preceding six have
been held in foreign countries, and have ad-
mitted properly qualified women to be present
—acknowledging that they had equal know-
ledge of and similar interest in the subjects
discussed, as properly qualified men. They
had followed the same studies, passed the same
examinations, and the scuse of indecorum,
therefore, which would intrude if the unquali-
fied public were permitted to be listeners of the
debates, could not in this case be felt. Nothing,
as H.R.H. the Prince of Wales remarked in
his opening address, so promotes the increase
of scientific knowledge, as [---] in these
congresses: the practitioners of each nation by
attending the congress would have opportuni-
ties of acquiring knewledge that would be of
considerable value. Why, then, are women
doctors to be excluded from these benefits,
which it has been found by experience on the
continent, they can profitably enjoy.
	A protest was signed by all the ladies who
are registered medical practitioners, setting for-
ward their claim to form part of the congress,
but it met with no response. A story is cur-
rent in London that at the preliminary meeting
of the executive committee, the majority were
disposed to follow the precedent in this mat-
ter, but were dissuaded by Sir William Jenner,
who declared that he was empowered to re-
move the name of the Queen as patron of the
congress if ladies were admitted. The story


is not worthy of credence. It is likely enough
that Sir William Jenner made a most empha-
tic protest against the admission of ladies, as
he, happily without effect, strenuously opposed
the admission of female students to the exam-
inations of the London University; but it is
absolutely incredible that he had any authori-
ty to use Her Majesty's name to influence the
congress.
	The arbitrary manner in which this congress
has been summoned can do nothing to retard
the continually improving status of women
doctors. It is probably the last occasion on
which they will be excluded, and it will be re-
membered as a stupid protest against the ad-
vancing toleration and liberality of the age,
the expiring effort of bigotry and high-hand-
ed trades-unionism.—Englishwoman's Review


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The devil tempts all; but the idle man
tempts the devil.—Italian Proverb.
	Language is not an instrument into which if
a fool breathe, it will make melody.—Godwin
Smith.
	It is strange that of all posssble tasks, sim-
ply to be what we are should prove not the
easiest, but infinitely the hardest.
	One of the most effectual ways of pleasing
and of making oneself loved is to be cheerful;
joy softens more hearts than tears.
	Faith, like light, should ever be simple and
unbending; while love, like warmth, should
beam forth on every side and bend to every
necessity.
	Our custom and habits are like the ruts in
roads; the wheels of life settle into them, and
we jog along through the mire because it is too
much trouble to get out of it.
	Depend upon it, in the midst of all the sci-
ence about the world and its ways, and all the
ignorance of God and His greatness, the man
or woman who can say, "Thy will be done,"
with the true heart of giving up, is nearer the
secret of things than the geologist and theolo-
gist.—George Macdonald.
	ENCOURAGEMENT.—Whenever you can con-
scientiously encourage any one, do so. You
would not leave those plants in your window-
boxes without water or refuse to open the shut-
ters that the sunlight might fall upon them;
but you leave some human flower to suffer from
want of appreciation or the sunlight of encour-
agement. There are a few hardy souls that can
struggle on stony soil—shrubs that can wait
for the dew and the sunbeams, vines that will
climb without kindly training—but only a few.
Utter the kind word when you can; give the
helping praise when you see that it is deserved.
The thought, that "no one cares and no one
knows," blights many a bud of promise. Whe-
ther it be the young artist at his easel, the
workman at his bench, the boy at his mathe-
matical problems, or the little girl at her piano,
give what praise you can, for many a one has
fallen by the way for the want of that word of
encouragement which would have "stablished
their feet."


[Column 1]
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
Special attention paid
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
P O. BOX 541

[Column 2]
PROSPECTUS OF
THE CONTRIBUTOR,
Representing the Young Men and Women
of Utah.

VOLUME THREE.

	THE Third Volume of the Contributor will
commence with October, 1881, number.
Each number will contain Thirty-two Pages of
choice reading matter. The volume will make
a fine library book of nearly Four Hundred
Pages.
	The success attending the first and second
years of this magazine justifies the prediction
that the new volume will not be excelled by any
home publication. The following are a few lead-
ing features that will characterize Volume
Three:

SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE PROPHET
JOSEPH SMITH.

	These will appear in each number, being care-
fully selected from the discourses and composi-
tions delivered during the last four years of the
Prophet's Life. They are upon a variety of im-
portant doctrinal subjects, and are full of light
and truth, communicated in the most thrilling
sentences, which distinguished the delivery of
their inspired author.
	Every Latter-day Saint should be familiar
with the sayings of the Prophet.
	In connection with the sermons will be pub-
lished short Biographical Sketches of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith. Illustrated with

TWO MAGNIFICENT STEED PLATE
ENGRAVINGS.

	These engravings are said by the most compe-
tent judges to be the finest and most accurate
portraits of the Prophet and Patriarch ever pub-
lished. They are full page pictures, printed in
the most artistic manner, and are alone worth
half the price of subscription charged for the
magazine.
	The volume will contain Historical Sketches
of the Buchanan Campaign of 1857, being an ac-
count of the causes and notable incidents of the
Echo Canyon War, taken from original docu-
ments. There is no epoch of the history of Utah
more romantic and interesting than the period
treated upon in this series.
	Historical, Biographical, Scientific, Literary
and Miscellaneous matter, from the pens of
Utah's young people and other writers, will add
to the value of the new volume.
	The Department devoted to Association Intel-
ligence will be much improved, containing, be-
sides minutes of important meetings, Queries
and Answers, Brief Correspondence, Model Pro-
grammes, etc.
	All the members of Associations are requested
to employ this department in asking any proper
questions that they may desire.
	Officers of Associations are urgently solicited
to take an active interest in the Magazine, writ-
ing and procuring suitable matter for its col-
umns, and doing all in their power to extend its
circulation among the people.
	Presidents of the Y. M. M. I. A. will please
act as agents.
	Terms of subscription, invariably in advance:

One year—including Engravings,...Two Dollars.
Six Months,..................One Dollar and a Half.

	Steel Engravings of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
India mounted on cards, 9 x 12 inches, for fram-
ing, One Dollar and a Half per pair.
	Agents getting up clubs of Fifteen Annual
Subscribers will receive an extra copy and a pair
of Engravings for framing, free.
	Associations getting up clubs of Ten will re-
ceive an extra copy free.
	Volumes One and Two, handsomely bound.
For sale at the Office. Price $2.50.
	Address—JUNIUS F. WELLS, Editor and
Publisher, Salt Lake City, Utah. P. O Box 305.
	Office, first door north of Z. C. M. I.
	Remittances should be made by P. O. Money
Order or Registered Letter.

FOR SALE

 Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

[Column 3]
A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes; Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜
DAVID JAMES
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

