VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1882.	No. 23.


APOSTROPHE TO SPRING, 1882.

Fain would I woo thee! sweet gem of the year!
	But you meet me so cold that I'm chill
I remember the days when my eye, and my ear
	To thy voices would lovingly thrill!

When the flowers burst forth as a carpet beneath
	My feet as I sped o'er the earth!
When the violets, and primrose bedeck'd my loved hearth
	And it seemed earth received a new birth's

When the wild thyme arose in its ottoman form
	Speaking loud of Shaksperian rhymes,
When the kingcup, and pimpernell daily were born,
	Oh! were these not heavenly times?
When the nightingale sang her sweet vespers at eve,
	And the Blackbird and Thrush hail'd the morn
How I l[---]ning bent my charm'd ear to receive
	The music round shrub'ry and Lawn!

We feel that the granduer and beauty of earth
	Had received from the heavens a strain,
Of the glory and sweetness of heavenly mirth
	That inflated the heart, and the brain!—

It seemed to prepare us for heavenly joy
	As we bask'd in the beauty around,
It took from the earthly its needed alloy
	And made satisfaction abound;

O beautiful Nature! thou daughter of God!
	Well, well may we bend before thee!
Yet, oft in thy hand is a marvelous rod,
	Placed there by thy Maker's decree.

And the cold chilly Spring of the year eighty-two
	With its hailstorms, its cyclones and snow,
Is depressing—but yet we must still keep in view
	That we've blessings we'll never forgo.

Oh! let us be grateful for all we possess,
	And acknowledge the wisdom and care,
So richly provided, yes e'en to excess,
	And of which we've a bountiful share.

Then I'll take thee, sweet Spring of the year eighty-two,
	With thy chills, and thy smiles and thy tears,
For I know that the Sun to his earth will be true
	Tho', she lacks some sweet gifts of past years.

For 'twas said when the work of creation was young
	That the day and the night should not cease,
But continue their courses for all times to come,
	And their blessings should never decrease.

And the "lights" that were planted in glory above
	For "signs, and for seasons" should be—
And these acts of creation doth visibly prove
	Child of earth! they were planted for thee!

								HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 21st 1881.


PEACE.

	"Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one
mind, live in peace, and the God of peace will
be with you."
	So said St. Paul to the Saints in his day, but
I think it is applicable to the Saints today.
It almost seems as though storm clouds were
fast gathering, but let us as Saints "be perfect,"
then we shall have nothing to fear, for they
that are with us are more than they that are
against us; the Lord is on our side and He will
fight our battles for us, if we will only make
ourselves worthy of his protection and care.
To be worthy—to be perfect, we must subdue
the evil that is within us, correct every influence
that arises within our own hearts that is op-
posed to the sanctifying influence of the grace
of God; then may we "be of good comfort" for
we shall have the approval of our heavenly
Father. We must also "be of one mind" there
must be no jarring nor contention in our midst,


we must "live in peace" one with another, do-
ing unto others as we would have them do unto
us, and carry peace with us wherever we go. I
know that to be perfect, to be of one mind, to
live in peace one with another under all cir-
cumstances, we must be Saints indeed, for it
requires every wrong influence that is within
us as individuals to be subdued until every evil
desire is eradicated, and every feeling of our
hearts brought into entire subjection to the will
of Christ. We are professedly Saints and it
behooves us to strive to live as such and to know
and understand ourselves that we may order
our lives before Him, whom we acknowledge as
our Father and God in such a manner that we
shall not need his chastening hand.
	Brigham Young once said, that when we had
overcome every besetting sin within ourselves,
then we should be able to overcome every foe
without, and we should live and outlive all the
slander, prejudice and falsehoods that had been
heaped upon us. Sisters let us be alive to our
duties let us be prayerful, watchful and live
our religion day by day, then surely will peace
and the God of peace be with us.
								NELL.


TO MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	I have no doubt that several of my "Mor-
mon" sisters will reply to your second honest,
sensible letter, as readily and candidly as they
did to your first. For my own part, I feel
much obliged to you for giving us an oppor-
tunity of speaking without feeling that we are
crowding our opinions unasked and undesired.
And I appreciate your friendliness in accepting
our testimonies as they are given, in all sincer-
ity of heart.
	Do not be offended with me for pitying your
"unbelief, skepticism or Ingersolism." It all
seems to me so unsatisfactory, especially when,in
my mind I compare it with the sweet faith, the
abiding hope, the perfect trust, the actual
knowledge which we as Latter-day Saints pos-
sess, in and of our Heavenly Father, his justice
mercy and loving kindness. How can we help
having faith when we repeatedly put the pro-
mises of the Lord to the test and have them
fulfilled to the very letter? By humbling our
selves—not to man—but before God, and seek-
ing to understand and be obedient to his laws,
we obtain the precious, priceless gift of his
spirit, by which we know for ourselves concern-
ing Him and his works. This brings us peace
and joy and satisfaction in all our duties, and
if we carefully follow its dictates, it will lead
us into all truth.
	Your very pointed and intelligent question,
"What is the belief of the Mormon Church,
and do you all have the same belief?" com-
prises so much that many pages might be ad-
vantageously filled in answering it. But we
have "Articles of Faith" printed on small cards
which will tell you in brief what our belief is.
Some of these cards shall be sent to you. We
have, like the ancient Church of Christ, "One
Lord, one faith, one baptism;" In our testi-
mony meetings, we all testify with one spirit,
of the goodness and power of "One God, and
Father of all." Whether we all speak or not,
we all understand alike and believe alike; and
the enjoyment of this Holy Spirit is what un-
ites our hearts and makes us regard each other
with the purest and most charitable feelings of
love and tenderness. I have said all, but


should say the great majority of our people are
thus actuated. There are and always have
been hypocrits, and we are not entirely free
from them.
	"Future rewards and punishments as I un-
derstand the subject, will be perfectly just and
right. Those who employ themselves in good
works here, will receive a corresponding reward
hereafter. And those who do wickedly will
reap what they merit, I am fully determined
to do all the good I can.
	Although far from perfection, yet our people
are diligently striving to reach a very exalted
degree of excellence; and the Lord helps us in
our weakness, often bestowing upon us what
seems to be supernatural strength and forti-
tude; and to Him belongs the praise and glory
if we do well.
		Very cheerfully yours,
				L. GREENE RICHARDS.


UNREPRESENTED WOMEN IN MAS
SACHUSETTS.

	In 1875, at the time of the last State census,
there were of all ages in the State—single fe-
males, 458,285; Widowed females, 73,527; div-
orced females, 1,847, making a grand total of
533,529, females of all ages unrepresented by
	There were 328,088 females both married
husbands.
and unmarried under twenty years of age. If
these be considered as all single, it will leave a
total of 204,541 females over twenty years of
age unrepresented by husbands. Of course a
small proportion of females under twenty were
not single, so that the total 204,541 will be a
somewhat less number than the true total.

WOMEN TEACHERS IN MASSACHUSETTS.

	Of teachers in 1879, in the public schools of
Massachusetts, there were: Males, 1,133
Females, 7,482; total, 8,615.
	Of the above, 494 were teachers in high
schools.
	The sexes are not indicated in the above
figures, but deducting male principals, about
200, most of the remainder were females, show-
ing a decided majority of female teachers in the
high schools also.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE movement for the higher education of
women in England has been advanced another
stage by the action of the university of London,
the convocation of which, at a recent meeting,
decided to admit female graduates. This con-
cession follows logically after that which opened
the doors of the University to women. It in-
dicates the steady growth of public sentiment,
and is an omen of the day not far distant when
all barriers of this kind will be removed.—
Christian Union.

	A COPY of the words written in the Queen's
own hand, to be placed upon the monument
she has had erected in Hughenden Church, it
is as follows:
	"To the dear and honored memory of Ben-
jamin, Earl of Beaconsfield, this memorial is
placed by his grateful and affectionate Sovereign
and friend Victoria R. I. "Kings love him
that speaketh right." Prov. xvi, 13. Feb. 27,
1882."


178	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following interesting incidents I sketch
from letters written by my mother to my father
while on a mission.
	The first dated October 11th, 1840, says,
"Conference closed last Monday. It was the
largest and most interesting one that has ever
been held since the Church was organized.
The people that attended were estimated at four
thousand, some thought there were more.
Much business was transacted and many good
instructions given. Brother Joseph has opened
a new and glorious subject of late, which has
caused quite a revival in the Church; that is
being baptized for the dead. Paul speaks of it
in First Corinthians 15th chapter 29th verse.
Joseph has received a fuller explanation of it
by revelation.	*	*	*	*	Since
this order has been preached here, the waters
have been continually troubled. During con-
ference there were sometimes from eight to ten
Elders in the river at a time baptizing.
	*	*	*	Those who have no
friends upon the earth to act for them, can
make their wants known to whomsoever they
will, through ministering spirits; and by so do-
ing we act as agents for them. Thus you see
there is a chance for all. Is not this a glorious
doctrine? Surely the Gentiles will mock, but
we will rejoice to have the Gospel preached to
the spirits in prison, and give them the privil-
ege of coming forth in the first resurrection.
President Smith in company with several breth-
ren have bought a steam boat, which is now
running from St. Louis to Galena. They cal-
culate in the Spring to run it to Wellsville.
Perhaps you will have the privilege of coming
home on it."
	In another letter she says, "I mentioned in
my last, that our people had bought a boat.
They have named her Nauvoo. The last trip
she made up the river, Brother Joseph Smith
went with her, and when he returned who
should accompany him but John Boynton and
his wife, and Lyman Johnson. They made it
their home at Joseph's all the time they were
here. I never saw Joseph appear more happy.
Said he "I am going to have all my old friends
around me again." Both of them bought lots
and calculate to build here. As to their faith
I have not heard much about it, but conclude
they have got some, or they would have no ob-
ject in coming here. I never saw any one ap-
pear more glad to see me than John's wife, they
called us all brothers and sisters. The day I
spent with them was one long to be rem-
embered.	*	*	*
	"I feel very grateful to you and Brother
Brigham and all the Saints who have admin-
istered to my necessities, may the Lord reward
them four fold. The things all came safe and
in an acceptable time, I can assure you.	*	*
	*	Sister Bently (formerly widow of David
Patten) was very thankful for her present, Sis-
ter Husband too. Sister Bently was very sick
the day I gave it to her. The next day she
felt the chill coming on, her mother told her to
put her shawl around her. 'Well' said she,
'who knows but Bro. Kimball has sent a bless-
ing with it, people anciently were healed
with any thing that the Apostles had touched,
and I will put it on and claim the blessing.'
She did so and her chill immediately left her;
she was quite smart all that day and so thankful
that she could not speak of it without weeping."
	A few extracts from my father's letter written
one year from the time he left us in Commerce,
may prove interesting. He gives some idea of
the sacrifice that was required at the hands of
the Apostles to prove them, whether or no they
were the true servants of God who were willing
to trust Him, and go forth in obedience accord-
ing to the pattern laid down by our Savior,

[Column 2]
"without purse or scrip" to bear the true mes-
sage of salvation to those who sit in darkness.
They were told in the beginning, that it would
require their whole souls and courage like that
of Enoch, for they would be considered the
worst of men; but not to be discourraged at
this for when God pours out his spirit, the en-
emy will rage. "The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this
has been the case ever since the days of righte-
ous Abel."
	The place where we were then living was
named Springvale because of the numerous
springs in that vicinity.
	The letter bears the following date:
					September 19th, 1840.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	It is one year yesterday since I left you in
Springvale, sick on your bed. After I started,
you recollect, I called you to the door to bid
you farewell. I tell you, my dear Vilate, that
time will be remembered by me as long as time
lasts. No man could suffer more than I did in
my feelings, no and I hope I will never have
to again while I live on earth; I think if ever
one man did, I have left all for the cause of
Christ. Oh the feelings that I had no man has
language to express; I must say that my con-
stitution is broken down. I have aged more in
one year past than in five years previous, and
I suppose it has been the same with you. Bro-
ther Brigham Young and George A. Smith,
have failed in the same way. When I look
back on the journey that we have traveled and
the sickness that we have passed through I do
not wonder at all, and as you say it seems like
an age to me. Last week I was taken with the
cholora in the evening and it appeared to me
as though I could not live till morning. I was
cramped in my legs and body, was in a strange
place and no one to assist me; chills came on
me in the night and it seemed as though I
should frezee to death before morning, I was
obliged to leave my bed and get in with Bro-
ther George. The next day my legs were so
numb that I could scarcely walk. It held me
about three days and brought me quite low. I
am doing tolerably well at present. Brother
Woodruff left us about two weeks ago. We had
not baptized but one here in the city before he
left. He felt almost discouraged, said he never
saw such a hard case before in his day. Every
door closed against us and every heart. We
traveled from day to day from one part of the
city to the other to find some one that would
receive our testimony, but it seemed all in vain
for some time; at last we found one old Cornel-
ious that was ready to receive our testimony as
soon as he heard it.
	Last Sabbath I went forward and baptized
four. This was after I was attacked with the
cholera. I thought it would do me good to go
into a cold bath. Last night I baptized four,
and more are going next Sunday. So you see
the ice is broken in London and the truth has
got such a hold the Devil can not root it out;
but, he is very mad aud I am glad, I shall
never try to please him the Lord assisting me.
You may think that I feel discouraged. I will
say I have never seen the first moment as yet,
I do not see any thing to discourage me but
everything to the reverse. I know that I am
built on the foundation of Jesus Christ and the
Apostles and I know that my name is written
in heaven and that I shall come forth in the first
resurrection, that is if I should lay in the dust
before that time comes. It matters not to me
whether I die or live if I do the will of my
Father who is in heaven; and I know by the
voice of God and by the spirit of prophecy and
revelation and by the power of God and by
more than one hundred testimonies that I could
mention if it was needful, that this is his work.
You know Vilate that it is not a small thing
that casts me down. Now my dear cempanion
pray to the Father in the name of Jesus

[Column 3]
Christ to uphold me that I may continue to
the end and magnify my calling in the sight of
God and angels and all holy men that have
gone before us; and rather than let me fall that
He will take me to himself, for I know and He
knows that I wish to become a man of God in
the full sense of the word; and I know that I
cannot become thus except He be with me, for
in and of myself I am nothing, nor is any
other one; they may continue for a little sea-
son in their own wisdom but they will fall at
last and go down to perdition. I speak of these
things because I feel my weakness before God."
	In the same letter he describes some of the
sights, witnessed by himself, Brothers Wood-
ruff and George A. Smith. "On the 5th, of
September" he says, "we visited West-minister
Abbey and went through every department,
saw all the tombs and monuments of the Kings
and Queen and Lords who are laid therein, and
sat in the chair in which Queen Victoria was
crowned, and all the Kings and Queens for the
last eight hundred years; so you may know that
it is quite an old chair and is worth going some
distance to see. We also went to [---] James
Park and saw the Queen's troops two hundred
horsemen and all had black horses. I never
before saw so beautiful a sight. There was
about 400 footmam and a beautiful band of
music.	*	*	*	On the 8th of Sep-
tember we visited the House of Commons.
	On the 17th, Elder Smith and myself visited
the Queen's Palace, saw her horses which are
of a cream color, there are twelve span of them
and four are put before the carrage at once.
The carriage of State weighs four tons,is twenty-
four feet in length, the most superb that was
ever built in Europe. There are eight or ten
others similar; probably 150 more horses kept
for her majesty. I saw the Palace of Queen
Adelaide, King William's wife.	*	*	*	We
went through all the stables, and harness house
and all that appertains to it. You would be
astonished to see the stir there is made over a
little Queen, at the same time thousands starv-
ing to death for a little bread; but they have
their reward. "Blessed are the poor for they
shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." The
rich and the proud have their reward here, and
we shall have ours hereafter, so I do not envy
them. The work of God is spreading in every
direction. I received a letter from Elder
Richards yesterday. He is well. There has
been fifteen or twenty baptized in Manchester
every week, and so it is in Preston and every
other part that I can hear from. B. Young
got news from O. Pratt, and I received a letter
from John Taylor. They are well. Since we
have been here in London I have received
thirty-one letters from different parts of the
land all things go well at present; but the Devil
is angry and also his comrades. There is great
opposition in England and it is growing worse
every day. Remember me to all of the Saints
from England, if they have reached there.
Give my love to Bro. Joseph, Elder Rigdon,
Brothers Hyrum, Don Carlos Smith and
families; and Brother Thompson and wife,
Brothers Hubbard, Bently, Rich, Joseph
Young, Israel Barlow and their wives and all
the wives of the Twelve and finally every body
else that you see and may the Lord bless them
all is my prayer for Christ's sake, Amen."
	This letter came at a time when my mother
was overwhelmed with sorrow, having just re-
ceived the heart-rending news that her dear
father was no more.
	She being the youngest child had been nearly
the idol of her family. Her father had passed
through the troubles in Ohio and Missouri and
had followed us to Nauvoo and this was the
longest time we had been separated. The
last tidings received from him, he was well and
calculating to start on his journey home on the
1st, of October, and we had been daily antici-
pating his arrival.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 179


﻿GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS.

HANNAH T. KING;

Sweet Friend: In reading o'er with interest
	Your "Codicil," I scarcely can refrain
To ask, the very first of that behest,
	You will recall, or change, or please explain.

"No flowers"! What reason can my sister give
	For this exclusion? Pure and precious things,
So choice, so cherished over while we live,
	In death are they not hallowed offerings?

What emblem more befitting that repose,
	To which your lines refer, and mark the scene,
Than the full open, whitest, sweetest rose,
	In death as well as life our floral queen?

And best if briers on the stem be found—
	('Tis my own fancy, may be, or a whim,
But sacred still—) One Head with thorns was crowned,
	And here, as ever, we would think of Him!

Think of, and imitate that one divine,
	The Sovereign always of your "mystic three,"
Whose love alone, to souls like yours and mine,
	E'en when bercaved, sots faith's fair pinions free,
S. L. City, Sunday April 23rd, 1881.


PROFESSOR JOSEPH L. BARFOOT
DEAD!

While [---] was finishing the lines above,
My husband came, and spoke a name we love;
And tenderly, with reverence deep, he said,
"Professor Barfoot, I have learned, is dead!"

Let me not think to tell this great man's worth,
This Student, rich with truths of heaven and earth
But as a daughter, I can weep and say,
Oh! happy one, gone home this sacred day!

Sweet home! to which our loved ones gather [-]ast,
Where all shall meet, with songs of joy at last;
Dear Sabbaths, come and go; and for the call,
So quickly coming, Lord prepare us all.
										LULA.


﻿SPENCER’S LETTERS.

	This interesting work consists of a series of
fifteen letters written by Orson Spencer,in the
years 1842 and 1847. They are answers to
the earnest inquiries of a clergyman of the
Baptist Denomination, who had formerly been
an intimate friend of the author. The first
letter was written in the city of Nauvoo, the
others in the city of Liverpool, while the author
was on a mission in Europe.
	The book is remarkable for its beautiful flow
of language,which holds the reader spell-bound.
Even after he has read it he finds himself re-
ferring to passages that are particularly fascin-
ating. Throughout the whole volume, one can
see that the writer evinces great anxiety con-
cerning the welfare of his friend, sincerely
wishing that he might become a convert to the
“Mormon” faith. The author, remembering
when a clergyman of the same Church; how he
himself struggled against this peculiar religion,
endeavoring in vain to reject it, has sympathy
for the Baptist Minister. Not one word of cen-
sure does he return his inquiries; but by calm
and conclusive arguments, he shows how in-
ferior are the churches of the world compared
with the one of which he is a member.
	His writings show that he is not a religious
enthusiast. He uses no extravagant expres-
sions to show forth the purity of his religion.
If he makes an assertion, he cites the reader to
Scripture or history, to verify the truth of his
statement. Such appropriate language, un-
selfish thoughts, and generous expressions con-
clusively prove that the writer was inspired.
	His comparison of Joseph Smith with Jesus
Christ is notable for its eloquence yet simplicity.
The modern prophet is spoken of in such glow-
ing terms as almost to indicate devotion on the
tart of the writer; althongh in another passage
he expresses an aversion to the worship of
man.


The eighth epistle treats especially of the nat-
ure of Deity and his abode. His assurance of
the existence of God, and his being a person
having a material body, is certainly gratifying.
And as the Divine Being has a real body,
heaven, his abode, must be a place of reality,
tangible and visible to its occupants. The
terms in which he speaks of his deceased wife,
the joy in the expectation of meeting her in a
future state, are indescribably pathetic. He
here showes the absurdity in supposing that
the soul dies with the body.
	But particuarly is the writing sublime, in the
description of the martyrdom of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith. So vividly he portrays the
awful gloom and anguish that pervaded the
hearts of the people of Nauvoo, that the reader
unconsciously partakes of a melancholy feeling
in keeping with those of the bereaved inhabit-
ants, of that beautiful city, at the time of the
fearful tragedy.					CAMEO.
	April 1, 1882.


SPRING—THE EMBLEM OF YOUTH.

	The seasons of the year, have often been con-
sidered, as the emblems of human life. And of
these bright, beautiful Spring is considered the
emblem of youth. It is said, that all depends
on the Spring. If the blossoms are destroyed
or if none are formed, there, will be no fruit.
If good seeds are not sown, there will be no
harvest. The reaping time will come, but there
will be nothing but seeds to reap. 
	Let us remember then my dear friends to
make good use of the spring of our lives. And
sow our minds with good seeds. So that when
the reaping time of our lives comes, that we
may have an abundant harvest of good deeds.
I would advise you while yet young, to
form good habts; and in forming them, let us
try and form those that will benefit us most, in
the life to come, and let us try and keep the
"Word of Wisdom," to the best of our ability
Let us young people refrain from using tea and
coffee, tobacco and strong intoxicating drinks,
except in cases of sickness for a medicine. For
now is the time to quit our bad habits, and to
form good, and noble ones. It is easier to quit
the bad ones now, than when we are older,
easier today, than tomorrow. Now in the
spring of our lives is the time for the improve-
ment of our minds, the correction of our tempers,
the enlargement of our capacities to serve God.
For the formation of good habits; and above
all let us make a decided effort to work out our
own salvation with fear and trembling before
our God.				AMELIA SPENCER.


HOW TO HELP EMIGRATE.

ESCALANTE, GARFIELD Co. April 23rd, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	After reading the letter in the last EXPON-
ENT, from Kent, England, to the Primary As-
sociations of Box Elder Stake; our sympathies
were moved in behalf of the children of the
Saints in foreign lands. Our Primary Associa-
tion had the proceeds of a party on hand to get
presents for the children. The President, Mrs.
Mary A. P. Schow, read the letter to the As-
sociation, explained to them the situation of
many poor children in the world; then took a
vote whether they would rather have presents
or emigrate a needy child, their sympathies
were awakened, directly all said they would
rather send for a little boy or girl. Have re-
ceived since in donations form five cents to one
dollar, have $18,00 already towards the good
cause.
	We also spoke on the subject of assisting to
gather the Saints, in our Young Ladies As-
sociation; contrasted our situation with that of
the Saints, in the world. A majority of mem-


bers were present. We opened a subscription,
all present were willing to donate one dollar
each, to emigrate a young lady. Much can
be accomplished by united action. Now it is
the beginning of the emigrating season, there
are five months ahead. I thought when read-
ing the report in the Deseret News, of the
Young Ladies and Primary Aassciations, if
every member would donate one dollar, twenty-
five cents, per month, for four months,a mighty
work could be accomplished, in assisting to
gather Israel. Those that, have been gathered
from the nations know the acute longings the
Saints experience, and their desires to gather
to Zion. Having spent the first seventeen
years of my life in the old country, I know a
little about the situation of the working classes.
	Sisters let us put aside the vanities of the
world and assist in ameliorating the condition
of our sex, and in bringing those of our faith
to Zion; that they may enjoy the protection
and status that we enjoy through the blessings
of our religion.
	We all have ability. In the emigration sea-
son, that is a strong point with me, I want to
assist myself and use an influence with others.
Will let you hear from us again in the course
of three or four months, when we close our
subscription.
	The President of the Young Mens M. I. A.,
of this place said he would use his influence
with their members to assist us young ladies in
the Gospel.
						JANE S. COLEMAN.


THOUGHTS.

	All alone, yet not alone for I feel that the
Spirit of God is here, and when we have the
Spirit of God in our hearts, we need never feel
lonely, but may always find something to think
of that is good and will do us good; indeed I
think it is good to be alone sometimes, so that
we can recall our past acts, and see where we
can improve, for I care not how good, or how
charitable a person may be they can always
improve if they will try; and we must ever
remember there is no standing still in the king-
dom of God; if we are not improving ourselves,
we are certainly losing what we have gained,
so it behooves us to be "up and doing” or per-
haps when the Bridegroom comes we shall be
found among the five foolish virgins, without
oil in our lamps; and there will be no time to
buy then. Now is the time to trim our lamps
and take care to keep them burning bright.
To do this, we have no time to waste, for Satan
is ever on the alert, and unless we watch our-
selves very carefully we are liable to step aside.
We must not only watch ourselves but pray
earnestly for wisdom and strength to withstand
the snares of the evil one. I sometimes think
if we were only as wide-awake as he is, how
much faster we should progress, but some of
us seem to be half asleep. Sisters let us bestir
ourselves, let us watch our children more care-
fully teach them to pray and to have faith in
God; see that they keep good company, teach
them to observe, “The Word of Wisdom,” do not
allow them to follow after the fashions of the
world. It grieves me sometimes to see how
careless some mothers are in regard to their off-
spring, they seem to think that when they are
fed and clothed their work is done, and the lit-
tle one is left to seek its own amusement: no
wonder they are led to do wrong, God will
hold us responsible for these things. Sisters
let us wake up and trim our lamps while yet the
chance is ours, for soon the cry will go forth
“Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to
meet him."						JEMIMA.


Senator Paddock has been appointed one of
the five Commissioners for Utah.


180	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthy, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	MAY 1, 1882.


UTAH NOT REPRESENTED.

	The decision so long pending, has been given in
the House of Representatives at Washington
D. C., by a majority vote, against the Hon.
George Q. Cannon, Delegate from Utah. Mr.
Cannon was fairly elected which was clearly
proven. His naturalization did not stand in the
way, but only the simple fact of his confession,
to the practise of plural marriage, believing it to
be a divine command. Then he is simply ex-
cluded on account of his religion. This is es-
tablishing a fatal precedent. Alas! our poor
country !
	We are sincerely sorry for those Representa-
tives to be deprived of the influence of so good,
so noble, so genuine-souled a man as George Q.
Cannon. It is to their own injury. The Lord
will over-rule it all for the good of his people.
"He moves in a mysterious way his wonders to
perform." The world may rest assured that
when the Saints have done their duty in i-
terceding and pleading with Governors and rul-
ers etc., that the Almighty will come out of his
hiding-place and sorely vex the nations.
	The sorrow the Latter-day Saints feel is not
on account of Mr. Cannon, but that this great
and free Republic, founded upon the broad prin-
ciple of equal rights and privileges to all men
has so far retrograded to be capable of such a
decision. What may men not look for? What
may they not fear when Congress legislates
against religion?
	If, as many believe, and as has been published
by some of the newspapers, politicians desire to
make political capital out of Utah—it will prove
a lasting disgrace to those who have had any
part or lot in the matter.
	Those honorable men who opposed Mr. Can-
non's being denied his seat, as the Delegate from
Utah, will have a clear conscience, sleep well
and be able to hold up their heads in the pres-
ence of all men and all women who love liberty
and hate oppression in any form.
	We are sincerely sorry that such an outrage
could have been perpetrated in this "free and hap-
py land;" not only on account of the Latter-day
Saints, but that of our dearly beloved country, of
which every American citizen has in times past
been so justly proud. But this is only the begin-
ning of the end. Is this a government "by the
people and for the people," if so, may not all peo-
ple be represented irrespective of religion?


CONSTITUTlON OF UTAH.

	The Constitutional Convention, which con-
vened on the 10th of last month, for the purpose
of drafting a Constitution for the proposed State
of Utah, has so far completed its work that the
Convention has adjourned until the 6th of June
proximo. Meantime a Committee of five, to-
gether with the President and Secretary of the
Convention, will take such steps as are necessary
to prepare the way for the elections to be held in


all the various precincts, and the people having
become acquainted with the Constitution by
perusal of the printed copies, which will be pre
viously circulated, will thus be prepared to judge
whether they will vote "yes" or "no" for its
ratification or rejection. The members of the
Convention unanimously adopted it—now it
remains to be seen what the people will do.
	There has been a committee of five members
appointed by the President of the Convention to
prepare a Memorial to Congress. This Memorial
is to be presented with the Constitution or to
open the way for it. Everything pertaining to
each article of the Constitution has been care-
fully studied and discussed, not only in specia
Committee, but in Committee of the whole, in
open Assembly.
	It may seem strange to some that so much
time has been devoted to the preparation of
something which it is very doubtful whether
Congress will even look at favorably, but it is
the duty of every free-born citizen, to seek by all
lawful and just means to attain a free Republi-
can form of government, such as is guaranteed
under state rule. There is no people more de-
serving of this blessing than the people of Utah,
whether Congress will thus decide in their favor
or not; but eventually Utah under that, or some
other name, will become as powerful as any of
her sister States. Assured of this fact the peo-
ple of the Territory who have already achieved
wonders in many ways, can well afford to wait
for the rulers of this nation to consider this im-
portant question. It is greatly to be hoped that
the women of this Territory as well as the men
will study the Constitution, which will soon be
in their hands, thoroughly; not be indifferent
feeling there is little prospect of its becoming
valid and effective—but examine it so carefully
as to be able to converse intelligently about it,
and see if it comes up to their ideas of a free
government.
	The constitution just framed is the only one
we have any knowledge of, in which women
have had a voice. This is something all women
may be justly proud of; it shows the advance-
ment of thought on the woman question. It is
one of the best proofs that could be given that
men are in earnest in giving woman the ballot,
and it depends largely upon woman herself in
the future whether she shall have a voice in
making the laws by which she and her
children are to be governed.
	But woman will, for the age proclaims it, and
man true to the instincts of the hour is becoming
converted to this theory which a few years ago
would have been considered very ultra.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ELECTIONS will be held in all the precincts
throughout Utah, on Monday May 22, to vote
"yes" or "no" on the Constitution framed at the
recent Convention.

	WE publish in this issue the EDMUND'S BILL
in its complete form as it passed both houses of
Congress and was signed by the Chief Executive
of the nation. Every woman should carefully
peruse and preserve this remarakable document.

	"FRAGMENTS OF EXPERIENCE." This is the
sixth book of the Faith Promoting Series. It
has been lately issued from the Office of the
“Juvenile Instructor." It contains some very
interesting and remarkable incidents in real life,
which will be good to place in the hands of the
children of this people. There will soon be suf-
ficent books of this kind to form quite a library
of choice reading matter. Price 25 cts.

	"MORMON DOCTRINE," by C. W. Penrose, is a
very ably written little work, recently published.
It is one that will be very useful to circulate;
giving in brief and in a most interesting style


the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints. It is an
excellent book to send abroad to the world to
give the people correct ideas of the principles
advocated by this people. It is Multun in parvo
Price 35 cts.

	"THE MARTYRS" by L. O. Littlefields is an-
other book about the same size issued from the
same press. It gives a sketch of the most re-
markable facts, relating to that fearful tragedy
the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
which will be of thrilling interest to every Lat-
er-day Saint. Price 25 cts.


THE EDMUNDS BILL.

	The Edmunds bill as it passed both Houses of
Congress and was signed by the President.

A BILL

	To amend section 5352 of the Revised Statu-
tes of the United States in reference to Bigamy
and for other purposes.

	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Re-
presentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That section 5352 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States be,and the
same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows,
namely:

	Every person who has a husband or wife liv-
ing, who, in a territory or other place over which
the United States have exclusive jurisdiction,
hereafter marries another, whether married or
single, and any man who hereafter simultane-
ously, or on the same day, marries more than
one woman, in a territory or other place over
which the United States have exclusive jurisdic-
tion, is guilty of polygamy,and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 and by imprison-
ment for a term of not more than five years; but
this section shall not extend to any person by
reason of any former marriage,whose husband or
wife by such marriage shall have been absent
for five successive years, and is not known to
such person to be living, and is believed by such
person to be dead, nor to any person by reason
of any former marriage which shall have been
dissolved by a valid decree of a competent court,
nor to any person by reason of any former mar-
riage which shall have been pronounced void
by a valid decree of a competent court, on the
ground of nullity of the marriage contract.
	Sec. 2:—That the foregoing provisions shall
not effect the prosecution, or punishment, of any
offence already committed against the section
tion amended by the first section of this act.
	Sec. 3.—That if any male person, in a territory
or other place over which the United States have
exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter cohabits with
more than one woman,he shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300,
or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court.
	Sec.4.—That counts for any or all of the of-
fenses named in sections one and two of this act
may be joined in the same information or in-
dictment.
	Sec. 5.—That in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any
Statute of the United States,it shall be sufficient
cause of challenge to any person drawn or sum-
moned as a juryman or talesman, first, that he
is or has been living in the practice of bigamy,
polygamy or unlawful cohabitation with more
than one woman, or that he is or has been guilty
of an offense punishable by either of the forego-
ing sections, or by section 5352, of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, or the act of July
1st, 1862, entitled "An act to punish and preven
the practice of polygamy in the Territories of the
United States and other places, and disapprov-


[Column 1]
ing and annulling certain acts of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah;” or second
that he believes it right for a man to have more
than one living and undivorced wife at the same
time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting with
more than one woman; and any person appear-
ing or offered, as a juror or talesman, and chal-
lenged on either of the foregoing grounds, may
be questioned on his oath as to the existence of
any such cause of challenge, and other evidence
may be introduced bearing upon the question
raised by such challenge; and this question shall
be tried by the court. But as to the first ground
of challenge before mentioned, the person chal-
lenged shall not be bound to answer if he shall
say upon his oath that he declines on the ground
that his answer may tend to criminate himself;
and if he shall answer as to said first ground, his
answer shall not be given in evidence in any
criminal prosecution against him for any offense
named in sections 1 or 3 of this act; but if he de-
clines to answer on any ground, he shall be re-
jected as incompetent.
	Sec. 6—That the President is hereby author-
ized to grant amnesty to such classes of offenders[-]
guilty before the passage of this act of bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, on such
conditions and under such limitations as he shall
think proper; but no such amnesty shall have
effect unless the conditions thereof shall be com-
plied with.
	Sec. 7,—That the issue of bigamous or polyga-
mous marriages, known as Mormon marriages
in cases in which such marriages have been
solemnized according to the ceremonies of the
Mormon sect, in any Territory of the United
States, and such issue shall have been born be-
fore the first day of January, A. D. 1883, are
hereby legitimated.
	Sec. 8.—That no polygamist, bigamist, or any
person cohabiting with more than one woman,
and no woman cohabiting with any of the per-
sons described as aforesaid in this section, in any
Territory or other place over wh[-]ch the United
States have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be en-
titled to vote at any election held in any such
Territory or other place, or be elegible for election
or appointment to or be entitled to hold any of-
fice or place of public trust, honor, or emolument
in, under, or for any such Territory or place or
under the United States.
	Sec. 9.—That all the registration and election
offices of every description in the Territory
of Utah are hereby declared vacant, and
each and every duty relating to the registra-
tion of votes the conduct of elections,
the receiving or rejection of votes, and the
canvassing and returning of the same, and
the issuing of certificates or other evidences of
election in said Territory, shall, until other pro-
vision be made by the Legislative Assembly of
said Territory as is herein after by this section
provided, be performed under the existing laws
of the United States and of said Territory, by 
proper persons, who shall be appointed to execute
such offices and perform such duties by a board
of five person, to be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate, not more than three of whom shall be mem-
bars of one political party, a majority of whom
shall be a quorum. The members of said board
so appointed by the President shall each receive
a salary at the rate of 3,000 per annum, and
shall continue in office until the Legislative As-
sembly of said Territory shall make provisions
for filling said offices as herin authorized. The 
secretary of the Territory shall be the secretary
of said board, and- keep a journal of its [-]roceed-
dings, and attest the action of said board under
this section. The canvass and return of all the
voted at elections in said Territory for members
of the Legislative Assembly therof shall also be

[Column 2]
returned to said board, which shall canvass all
such returns and issue cert[-]ficates of election to
those persons who, being eligible for such elec-
tion shall appear to have been lawfully elected,
which certificates shall be the only evidence of
the right of such persons to sit in such Assembly,
provided said board of five persons shall not ex[-]
clude any persons otherwise eligible to vote from
the polls, on account of any opinion of such person 
may entertain on the subject of bigamy or poly-
gamy; nor shall they refuse to count any such
vote on account of the opinion of the person cast-
ing it on the subject of bigamy or polygamy; but
each house of such Assembly, after its organiza-
tion, shall have power to decide upon the elec-
tions and qualifications of its members. And at,
or after the first meeting of said Legislative As-
sembly whose members shall have been elected 
and returned according according to the provisions of this
act, said Legislative Assemble may make such 
laws, conformable to the Organic Act of said 
Territory, and not inconsistent with other laws 
of the United States, as it shall deem proper con-
cerning the filling of the offices in said Territory 
declared vacant by this act.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died In South Bountiful, Davis Co. U. T.
Rebecca Moss, daughter of Daniel and Mary
Wood, born May 11th, 1826 Loughborough Up-
per Canada, gathered to Kirtland was baptized
when eight years of age; gathered with the
Saints in Missouri, went from there to Illinois,
was married to Elder John Moss, March 1844, in
Pike Co., Ill. In 1848, came to these valleys
was the mother of twelve children of whom ten
are living to mourn the loss of a loving-mother;
she has left seventeen grandchildren and three
have gone before her. Before the Stake organ-
ization she was a teacher, in the Bountiful Re-
lief Society for nine years.
	In Jan. 1880 she was chosen president of the
board of teachers in South Bountiful, was true to
every principle of the Gospel. She has passed
away in the glorious hope of a part in the first
resurrection.
	TESTIMONIAL, Of respect and esteem to the
memory of our beloved Sister Rebecca Moss.
	Whereas: It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to release our sister from affliction and sufferings
therefore.
	Resolved: That we the Sisters of the Relief
Society of South Bountiful Ward, have lost in
her a kind and affectionate sister and a true
friend one who was ever ready to perform every
duty required of her, we sincerely sympathize
with her bereaved, husband children and
family.
			PHEBE ATKINSON PRES.
			REBECCA W. BROWN. Sec'y.

	Died, in the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City, April
15th 1882, at the residence of her son William,
Tharbothe Knight, age 53 years, and 28 days,
after a lingering and severe illness. She with
her husband, Thomas Knight, was amoug the
first that received the Gospel in Davenport, De
von, England.
	Her husband died in England, leaving her
with a family of children, to meet and struggle
with the trials of life. He requested her to em-
igrate to Utah, before his death, and through the
blessing of the Lord, in 1864 she and her child-
ren fulfilled that request. Some years later, she
was married to Brother Harmon Wickel, and
through his death, was the second time left a
widow. She was called to the office of a teacher
in the 20th Ward branch of the Relief Society,
during the first year of its organization, and
faithfully performed the duties of that calling as
long as her health permited it. The death of


her youngest son, a faithful, obedient young
man 21 years of age, which occurred four years
ago, was a severe and heavy blow to her, from
which she never recovered. She leaves two sons
and two daughters, and thirteen grandchildren,
who are all striving to follow in her footsteps,
with the glorious hope of meeting her and others
who have gone before, in the morning of the
first resurrection.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee
	As one dead, but gone to rest,
From thy labors and thy sufferings,
	With thy kindred to be blest.

ELIZABETH K. FEWENS.


SOME THINGS THE ANCIENTS ATE.

	It is interesting to read of the various articles
of diet used in the different ages of the world, by
its inhabitants. Judging by the few varieties of
food mentioned in the Bible we should infer that
the early inhabitants of the world lived rather
plain, not to say coarsely. Although a sacred
and historical work like the Bible is hardly the
book in which to look for the Universal bill of
fare and perhaps gives only an imperfect idea of
it, though at that very early period of which it
first gives an account, the varieties of food must
of necessity have been few.
	That eaten previous to the fall, by our first
parents about 4000 years B. C., was the fruit of
the garden of Eden, for God placed them there
and gave to them for food "every herb bearing
seed and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree
yielding seed."
	The first time we read of bread, was when the
Lord was going to banish them from the garden
and said to Adam "In the sweat of thy face shalt
thou eat bread, till thou return unto the
ground."
	After the flood every thing was delivered into
the hands of Noah and his sons about 2348 years
B. C. God said unto them "Every moving
thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as
the green herb have I given you all things."
About this time wine was made.
	The first time we read of flesh being eaten
was when the three strangers visited Abraham,
(though no doubt it was used long before) Sarah
made the cakes on the hearth and Abraham
"took butter and milk, and the calf which he
had dressed and set it before them; and he stood
by them under the tree and they did eat" he
died 1821 years B. C. This gives us some clue
to the time they visited him.
	Jacob bought Esau's birthright for some red
pottage and Isaac ate savory meat and bread
when he blessed Jacob, this was about 1759 B. C.
	In Exodus we read of oil, spice, milk, and
honey, that was in Moses time and he was born
1571 B. C.
	Danied preferred pulse to the provisions of the
King's table. In the wilderness the Hebrews
sighed for the "fish the cucumbers, the melons,
the leeks, the onions and the garlic."
	We read that Jesus Christ often appeased his
hunger with bread and fish, though plain diet
then and for some hundreds of years before, was
a matter of taste or necessity for while the Per-
sians 600 years B. C., lived principally on bread
and cresses the Medes lived in luxury.
	Tea was taken to England in 1610, and coffee
in 1652. Cauliflowers, beans, peas, and cabbage,
were introduced about 1660. It was not till
about 1546 that salads, carrots and turnips were
known in England, and potatoes were first
planted in Ireland in 1610. Currants, cherries
and apricots were introduced during the reign of
Henry 8th, consequently before 1547, and
peaches during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
	In all probability the art of boiling down the
juice of the sugar cane and making raw sugar


was an invention of the 15th century, but refined
sugar has only been in use about 300 years.
	Thus we see that many, now very common
edibles have not been known till a comparatively
recent date, and other industries and arts have
improved accordingly, and though almost every
thing existed primitively in some state, it has
taken man's ingenuity and labor to bring things
to their present perfection and uses.
							ANN FELLOWS.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SOUTH BOUNTIFUL,

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Before the Stake organization the East,
West, and South Bountiful sisters, met in one
Relief Society.
	Jan 26th, 1878, our Society was organized
in a Ward by our Bishop. Mrs. Phebe Atkin-
son President; Elizabeth Brown. Jane Hatch,
Counselors; Rebecca W. Brown Secretary;
Harriet Ellis, Treasurer. With a quorum of
twelve teachers,who strive to faithfully perform
their duty. Our Society when first organized
consisted of fifty-six members, of whom nine
have removed and three died.
	Jan. 1880, our board of teachers was organ-
ized, Mrs. Rebecca Moss, Presiding Teacher;
Hannah Arnold, Sec’y. Our financial report
is as follows, from our organization until
Oct. 1881.
	Receipts, cash $152.50; property 97,93; dis-
bursed, meeting house in cash, $53.00; in pro-
perty $74.35; temple, in cash, 21.00; poor in
cash 78.50; in property 16,33. On hand 7,25.
			REBECCA W. BROWN, Sec'y.

BEAVER CITY.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Beaver Stake was held on Thursday, March, 2,
1882. Sister Lucinda Howd presiding. After
the opening exercises, Sister Howd gave some
instructions in regard to the Conference. Min-
utes of the last Conference were read and ap-
proved.
	Verbal reports of the different wards were
given by Presidents Cox, Richards and Jones;
all showing that the sisters are energetic in
performing their duties and are untiring in their
labors for the advancement of the work in their
different localities. Good instructions were
given by Counselors McDonough and Skinner,
after which Prest. John Ashworth addressed
the sisters in a lengthy discourse. He was
very emphatic in his instructions in regard to
caring for the poor. Said, let no one suffer for
the necessities of life, no matter what their re-
ligious belief, but look well to their wants; let
none go hungry or destitute.
	In the afternoon, the financial and statistical
reports were read, showing a prosperous con-
dition financially, and a good average atten-
dance at meetings. Remarks were made by
Sisters Dell, Lightner, Crosby, Lydia and
Nancy Blackburn, M. E. Ashworth and Jane
Gillis. All spoke earnestly and touched on
many interesting subjects. Sister Howd then
gave some instructions in regard to our duties
as mothers.
	Bro. Wm. Robinson, after other good re-
marks, said the organizations of the sisters
are worth everything or nothing, and ought to
be considered of due importance.
	Bro. Fotheringham said when we have hate
in our bosoms, we have that much evil in our
lives; hence the necessity of the Saints loving
each other. His remarks, which were very
interesting, were continued to some length.
	Bro. Eyre, of Minersville, said our mission is
to suppress evil, and establish peace and

[Column 2]
righteousness on the earth. He, as well as the
other brethren, spoke well and spiritedly.
			E. A. FARNSWORTH, Secretary.

PANACCA, NEVADA.

	Minutes of a meeting held in Panacca Ward,
March 15th, 1882, for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Primary Association. Bishop Syphus pre-
siding. Singing, "We thank thee O God for a
Prophet," etc. Prayer by the Bishop. Sing-
ing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," etc.
	Bishop Syphus spoke very encouragingly to
the children; told them to ask their big broth-
ers and sisters to give us five or ten cents each
to buy books; said he would do all he could to
help us and for us to pray to the Lord to give
us strength to do our part. His desire was
that we may learn to keep the commandments
of the Lord and prayed that He would bless us
all. Sisters Langford and Lee addressed the
meeting. The following persons were sustained
as officers: Mrs. Melissa K. Lee, President;
Mrs. Annie Mathews, First Counselor; Mrs.
Mary Gentry, Second Counselor; Fanny
Moffitt, Secretary; Susan Langford, assistant
Secretary; Alice Findlay, Treasurer; number en-
rolled, thirty nine. Sisters Anna Mathews and
Fanny Moffitt adressed the meeting. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Bishop
Syphus.		FANNY R. MOFFITT, Secretary.


[Column 1]
PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Is polygamy essential, and would it do vio-
lence to the conscience of the Mormon people
to drop this tenet of their faith?
	The above question was asked by a much,
and justly, esteemed gentleman in Missouri.
The following reply was not originally intend-
ed for publication, but I have decided to have
it printed, thinking there might be other hon-
orable and highminded gentlemen, who enter-
tain an honest prejudice against a principle
they do not understand; if such there be, I ask
them to read a woman's imperfect vindication
of the purity of women whose claim to respec-
tibility the American Congress are endeavoring
to legislate out of existence, to read, not
that they may believe, but that they may do
justice to the honest belief of others.
	All men of deepest scientific research agree
upon one fact: That in nature's laboratory
there is absolutely no waste, all existing elements
are therein utilized, and with Him who gov-
erns the forces of nature, economy is a fixed
law.
	Would it not be wise in man, finding him-
self endowed with reason, and allowed the free
use of his agency and further being assured
that he will be held responsible for his own
mistakes, to take a lesson from nature and
economize the brief period allotted him to live
by endeavoring to make himself innocently
happy, and also by taking that course which
reason assures him will secure his happiness in
the life beyond? We are told that the Scrip-
tures were given us for our learning and profit.
In them we find recorded a promise made by
God to Abraham that in him and his seed
should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and those among them who should keep his
commandments He promised an everlasting in-
heritance. An inheritance could not be ever-
lasting in our finite state, as death would break
the contract; therefore it is evident that the
promise made to Abraham has not yet been
fulfilled. A detail of the events which we, as
a people, believe will take place before it will
be fulfilled would take too much time and space,
but I will mention a few promiment ones, as the
motives which inspire our course of action
are closely connected with them. We believe
that the house of Israel will rule this earth

[Column 2]
throughout the endless ages of eternity, and
that all who become heirs to salvation must
become identified with it; all that is neeessary
in order to do so is to obey the commandments
of God as they are made known unto us.
Jesus said unto the Jews, "If ye were Abra-
ham's children ye would do the works of
Abraham," and further, that God was able to
raise up children to Abraham out of the stones
of Jerusalem. All that remained of the
children of Israel after the dispersion of the
ten tribes were, after the death of Jesus and
the Apostles, scattered among the nations and
their identity as distinct tribes, with the ex-
ception of the Jews, was lost, but as the tribes
had intermarried a portion of the blood of all
the tribes was represented. Millions of their
descendants died without the knowledge that
their veins were warmed by the royal blood of
Israel. But the time is at hand when both
the living and the dead will receive a
knowledge of who they are, and of the prom-
ises concerning them. All Israel will be found,
but neither all of the living, nor all of the
dead, will be found worthy of salvation. God
is just, not a son or daughter of Abraham will
receive a blessing they do not merit, not a son
or daughter of Adam will be rejected who
obeys the law of God. The faithful Gentiles
will become heirs by adoption, and made
equal by the sealing power of the Priesthood.
But before the house of Israel can be organized
into a complete and perfect family, according
to the design of the Almighty, there is an
enormous work that must be performed. The
Gospel of the kingdom must be preached to
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and
for this cause do we send missionaries to the
uttermost parts of the earth that all may re-
ceive the glorious invitation, "And the spirit
and the bride say, come. And let him that
heareth say, come. And let him that is athirst
come. And whosoever will, let him take of
the water of life freely." But the dead can-
not act for themselves as the spirit is not per-
fect without the body, therefore we must attend
to the necessary ordinances for them, as they
cannot be made perfect without us nor we
without them. For this cause do we pay tithing
and build temples, that we may have a
suitable place wherein these ordinances can be
attended to. It is an immense work, as nothing
has been done for the dead for eighteen cen-
turies. It is the mission of Elijah the Prophet
to assist in restoring the missing links which
connect the children of Israel with the fathers,
and for this cause was he translated, that having
a body and also the power of translation, he
could visit both the the living and the dead,
and thereby render great service when the time
for his mission to be fulfilled arrived. The
dead will hear the Gospel where they are, we
will officiate for them here, they will then have
the privilege of accepting or rejecting what
has been done for them.
	Now what has polygamy to do with all this?
I answer, much every way. In the first place,
we believe that when our ancestors hear the
Gospel they will be anxious to have their de-
scendants officiate for them, and also regard it
as a sacred duty to do so, but as many families
are represented by one, the labor is too great,
and for this cause do many enter into polygamy
that they may rear up sons and daughters to
assist in the work for the dead. But not for
this cause alone; many are actuated by affection,
but they also accept it as a direct revelation
from God, given in order that every man may
have the privilege of raising a family who de-
sires to do so. Our marriage ceremonies
take no cognizance of death; our contracts of
marriage are entered into for time and all
eternity (with the exception of widows, who
sometimes marry, but always with the mutual
understanding, that they are to be given back
to their own husbands in eternity). Now what


fact becomes manifest, either that a man who
has the misfortune to lose the wife of his youth
shall remain single to the day of his death, or
be hereafter, if not here, what many regard
with horror, a polygamist, or should the wife of
his youth be so unfortunate as to bear him no
children, he must needs come up in eternity a
leafless branch With us motherhood is the
crowning glory of womanhood, our families
are not kept within fashionable and convenient
limits either by infanticide or abortion; every
child is welcomed as a heritage from God. I
do not assume that polygamy is a system cal-
culated to enhance earthly happiness; I scarcely
think there is any one who would hazard the
assertion, that man is made happier by the
care of a large family, or woman by the con-
sciousness of divided love, but certainly there
is no degradation in laying the holiest affection
of the heart on the altar of duty. Was Jesus
degraded by the cross, or the Apostles by being
put to ignominious deaths? This people re-
ceive and practise polygamy as a revelation
from God, and regarding it as they do, see no
more cause to blush for their marriage relations
than has innocence for being innocent or purity
for being pure. I shall make no effort to con-
ceal the fact, nor do I deem it necessary to
apologize, for that which must, unavoidably
exist in a community gathered as this has been,
from all parts of the world, viz; that there are
those among us of inferior minds incapable of
appreciating sacred things, and this holiest
principle of the Gospel is to them like casting
pearls before swine, but they, as well as the rest
of mankind, have a right to their agency, and
we have no right to restrict them in the exercise
of it. Plural marriage, to one who believes
that all ties will terminate with this life, and
that there is no necessity to lay a foundation
here for the life beyond, is not only unnecessary
but altogether undesireable, but to all who
accept it as a direct command from God, it is
not only essential but imperative, and no one
who so regards it could drop this tenet of their
faith without great violence to their conscience.
										L.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


[Column 1]
JENNY LIND GOLDSCHMIDT.

"She, more sweet than any bird on bough,
	Would often times amongst them have a part,
And strive to pass, as she could well enow,
	Their native language by her skilful art."

	What would life be without music, without
the sweet sounds that cheer and purify our
souls and bring us nearer heaven and nearer
God? There are few, if any, who have not
felt its holy influence. Even the song-bird, as
he flits from bough to bough, has a sweet song
of cheer for us all. There is nothing that so
soothes the troubled soul and calms it to rest.
Music has moved the heart that seemed as
stone and melted it to tears. It is the one art
that seems fitted to all times and places; it
matters not whether we are sad or joyous, we
still love music. Now and then we meet with
one of its great interpreters and of these per-
haps none are more worthy of the fame they
have acquired than is Jenny Lind.
	This queen of song was born at Stockholm,
Sweden, October 6th, 1821. Her parents,
though poor, were very respectable people, her
father being a teacher of languages, and her
mother a school mistress. When Jenny Lind
was twenty months old she could sing the
airs of her native land with great perfectness.
When three years of age she seemed to care
for nothing but music, and would sit alone for
hours and sing until her little heart would
swell with rapture, as she sung song after song
with the correctness and expression of a
woman. When she was nine years of age an
actress, by the name of Lunberg, while passing,
heard the silvery tones of her voice and was

[Column 2]
so charmed that she at once went to Jennie's
parents and persuaded them to allow her to be
trained for the opera. After gaining their
consent, Madame Lunberg had the pleasure of
conducting her to M. Croelius, one of the most
noted musicians of Sweden. He at once be-
came perfectly enchanted with her voice, as
well as the sweet simplicity of her manner, and
resolved to present her to Count Pucke, man-
ager of the king's theatre. It is customary in
Europe for conductors of royal opera houses
to educate and train pupils for the stage, and
they generally have a school attached for this
purpose. M. Croelius succeeded in presenting
her to the Count, but when he saw the pale
slender girl of ten years before him he said, in
a harsh tone, What! this ugly creature, with
such feet and such a face? She will never be
presentable. No, we can have nothing to do
with her. The old teacher became enraged
and knowing well the power of her voice said,
then, poor as I am, I will take her. The con-
ductor seemed not a little abashed, when he
heard the earnest remarks of the old gentleman
and after sometime he consented to hear the
child sing. And, as her little bosom swelled
with indignation, she sung such notes as she
had never sung in all her life. Before she had
finished her song it is needless to say that the
Count changed his mind, and she was at once
admitted to the school and placed under the
immediate training of the best musicians. Now
and then during the season the children of this
school were required to take part in little
plays written expressly for them, and it was in
one of these that Jenny Lind first made her
appearance before the public, in the eleventh
year of her age. Her part was that of a
beggar girl; it was not a favorite part, but she
sung with so much feeling that the whole
audience were spell-bound; she afterwards ap-
peared quite frequently in the little plays and
was so successful that all Stockholm considered
her a prodigy; but just when her future seemed
so bright, a cloud suddenly overspread her
horizon, her voice failed her; she gave up the
opera, but continued four years studying in-
strumental music and composition. During
these four years, that seemed a lifetime to the
poor disappointed girl, she had blossomed into
a beautiful woman. And on her seventeenth
birthday it so happened that a concert was
given, the principal feature of which was the
fourth act of Robert le Diable, in which the
part of Alice was assigned to her, she had but
one solo and that was generally any thing but
popular with singers; she studied it diligently
but feared greatly lest her voice should forsake
her, entirely. So long had it been since she
looked the public in the face, that she had
emerged from childhood to a woman, and she
determined to overcome her fright, and, strange
as it may seem, her voice returned in all its
wonderful power and her beautiful notes vi-
brated the hearts of all present so much so
that they rose to their feet and greeted her
with thunders of applause. The next morn-
ing the conductor, after congraulating her, told
her that she was cast for the very important
part of Agatha, in Der Frieschutz; no words
can express the joy she felt on learning this; she
had always longed to play this part more than
any other, but of late had almost given up her
loved desire. It is said that at the last rehear-
sal of this piece the musicians laid down their
instruments to applaud her, she sung with so
much power. This was her first appearance in
the royal opera and on the night of perform-
ance the spectators were not only pale with joy,
but there was scarcely one who did not shed
tears. This was followed by repeated sucesses
until she become the favorite of all Stockholm,
but her voice, from over exertion, she saw was
again failing her, and she felt the necessity of
having better instruction than her own country
afforded. She traveled through Norway and

[Column 3]
Sweden with her father, giving concerts in
order to obtain means to go to Paris and study
under Garcia. These concerts were a perfect
success, and she at once went to Paris. Her
interview with Garcia was very disheartening,
he told her that she had had a voice, but was
on the point of losing it. You must, he said,
rest for three months, and then return to me
and I will do all in my power for you. When
the time had expired she came back refreshed
and her voice was now ready for cultivation.
During her residence in Paris she had the honor
of singing before Meyerbeer, who instantly per-
ceived the fine quality of her voice; after this
he gave her a grand rehearsal with full orchestra;
she sung the solos in the scenes from the favorite
operas, and all the musicians were delighted
with her manner and voice. This completed her
musical education. She returned home, gave
performances, and received several invitations
to sing at Copenhagen, where she appeared be-
fore large audiences. The students of the
University there gave her a serenade by torch
light. This was indeed quite an honor, as she
was the first one on whom such favor had ever
been bestowed. She was very benevolent and
frequently gave concerts for the benefit of the
poor, and was always doing something for those
who needed assistance. At Berlin she was pro-
nounced the best singer in Europe, and at
Vienna her success was beyond all precedent.
She soon afterwards went to London to sing at the
Queen's Theatre, and while there it is said that
no one was more enchanted with her voice than
La Blanche the celebrated basso. He remark-
ed one evening that her every note was a pearl;
she was very much pleased with the compli-
ment, and sometime afterward, when she be-
came better acquainted with him she deter-
mined to remind him of the remark; she went
up to him and humbly asked him if he would be
kind enough to lend her his hat; he seemed
very much confused but immediately handed it
to her; she retired to a corner of the room and
after singing an air into the hat, she returned
and begging him to kneel, said, Signor, I have
made you a rich man, here is a hat full of
pearls. When she appeared in London the
theatre was wholly incapable of holding the
mass of people that poured forth from all parts
to hear this wonderful singer, and many
hundreds were unable to hear her at all, the
struggle for tickets was so great. After two
years of continued triumph, she concluded to
quit the stage and sing only in the concert room.
Her last performance on the stage was in May,
1849, when she played before the Queen of
England, and a vast assembly of distinguished
personages. In October, 1849, she came to
America. Thousands of people greeted her
on the shore when she landed. Her first ap-
pearance was at Castle Garden, where five
thousand people assembled. This was the
largest audience before which she had ever ap-
peared, and such was their appreciation, that
the last notes of her first song could not be heard
for the acclamations of joy from the people.
She sung all over the United States and gained
all the fame and honor possible for one to win
in the musical world. While in America, she
met Atto Goldschmidt, a pianist and composer
of great note, with whom she had studied in
Germany. Their friendship soon ripened into
love, and they were married at Boston, in 1851.
She resided for sometime in Northampton
Mass., and then returned to Europe. She has
always been admired by the English people for
her domestic accomplishments, and tender
attachment to home and family. The last
time that she appeared in public her voice
still retained all its sweetness and power. At
her home in London she has devoted a great
part of her time to training young ladies for
the concert room; but it will be long ere one
will attain the perfection of song that did
Jenny Lind.					BEATRICE.


184 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

	Another poet passed away. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, the poet and philosopher, died on the
27th of April. This great man was born in Boston,
May 25th, 1803, and was educated at Harvard
College. He studied for the ministry, but
shortly abandoned the pulpit for the more con-
genial pursuit of literature and philosophy.
He lived in retirement at Concord, where he
wrote unceasingly, and from time to time has
laid his works before the public. He was a
correpondent of the North American Review
and other standard magazines. His writings
consisted principally of lectures, orations,
essays and poems. There has seldom been a
writer over whom there was such a diversity of
opinion. His essays are beautifully written,
but are more a display of scholarship than
deep thought. His poems are clothed in
beautiful and most striking language, but when
contemplated, his ideas appear neither new nor
true. He found more friends among the
passive objects of nature than in man's society,
and though his writings lacked wisdom and
reasoning they speak of the good and worth of
everything in such a way as to make one feel
there are

"Tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
	Sermons in stones, and good in everything."
									A. W. C.


[Column 1]
THE DINING-ROOM.

	The dining-room should be one of the most
pleasant and sunny rooms in the house, in fact,
if it could be arranged, I would have the house
so constructed that the sun could shine in every
room from its first rising beam to the parting
glow that shimmers in the golden west.
	Oftentimes it is only in the dining-room
that the family meet during the week, except
on Sunday. Father and the older boys are off
to business before the little folks' eyes are open,
or the young ladies have recovered from the
effects of the last night's dance. Eeverything in
this room should suggest pleasant thoughts.
What a depressing effect one of those dark, sep-
ulchral apartments has on every appetite except
the most healthy! It is more suggestive of cof-
fins and the dampness of the charnel house,
than of good cheer, and the mirth that is so
great a foe to dyspepsia. A few bright, well
chosen pictures should adorn the walls, but if
you keep a boarding house, and wish to save
provisions, select those representing murders,
executions, and other equally festive scenes.
	If this room is also used as the family sitting-
room and library, a book case should stand in
one corner, and a cabinet of curiosities be placed
in some convenient spot, while a small table for
mother's sewing, and several low easy chairs
and ottomans should not be forgotten. A fer-
ney, or a few pot plants are desirable. An
English ivy trained round the room has a
charming effect, and requires but little care, as
it will endure a considerable degree of cold.
	In these days very few use the old-fashioned
square table, but if you must use one, have the
corners taken off, and then get a couple of
rounded pieces made to fit on the ends. These
can be fastened on by means of two strips of
board nailed on the under side; and then run
through the boxing of the table in holes sawed
for the purpose. To get this done requires but
little trouble or expense, and you will be amply
repaid by its greater convenience and the bet-
ter style in which such a shaped table can be
set.
	It is always economy to buy good table linen.
A course, rough, brown table-cloth gives every-
thing a cheap, soiled appearance, while if a good
quality of white is chosen, everything will wear
an inviting look. A fine, well-ironed table-
cover, if brushed after each meal instead of be-
ing shaken, and with mats under hot dishes,

[Column 2]
and an oil-cloth under the little one's plate,
should last two weeks, and look better at the
end of that time than a clean brown one.
Washing and ironing wear linen more than the
actual use, and by economizing in these pro-
cesses, you will soon save enough to pay for the
increased expense.
	By keeping the table constantly set, you will
save much time and troubled hurry, when pre-
paring for a meal. Clean the cloth after meals
with a brush kept for the purporse. A clean
wing will answer. If you take it off, be sure
to fold in the same creases in which it was
folded when ironed. Let the castor, spoon-
holder, sugar-bowl and salts remain on from
time to time. After everything is arranged,
cover between meals with an old table-cloth, too
thin for further use, freshly ironed, and stiffened
with thin starch, or a piece of white net such
as is used for fly screens.
	If you are obliged to use one room for both
kitchen and dining-room, it will, perhaps, be
necessary to have the dining table cleared and
set back during the afternoon, but when laid
for dinner, let it remain till after breakfast
next morning. Those who have never tried
this plan will be surprised at the comfort it will
give, and the time and labor it will save.
	Nice mats for hot dishes and tea-pots can be
crocheted out of tidy cotton, in the ordinary
close stitch. If you wish them very thick,
crochet them over wicking, Very handsome
ones can also be made by covering round or ob-
long pieces of pasteboard, with scarlet opera
flannel, and then sewing on the common white
crimped buttons which can be bought for a
cent or two a dozen. Use any design you
please.
	A cosey to keep the tea hot can be made
from the flannel cut to fit the pot, the buttons
put on in a tasty manner, and a loop handle
made at the top by which to remove it. Line
with several thicknesses of flannel, old is just
as good. If the family are regular to their
meals, the tea or coffee may be further kept hot
by placing the pot on a thick piece of iron like
a scale weight, or on a round piece of freestone,
heated for the purpose.
	Have all food cut squarely and evenly, and
served in the best possible shape. Crumbs, ir-
regular sections of pie, sloppy dishes and dis-
order, have a evry depressing effect on the
appetite.—Ex.


THE Married Woman's Property Bill was
introduced in the House of Lords by the LORD
CHANCELLOR. It has passed through the stage
of committee, and will in all probability pass the
third reading in the House of Lords, and come
down to the House of Commons soon after the
Easter recess. The Bill, as it now stands as am-
ended by the LORD CHANCELLOR, though in some
respects capable of improvement, is so great an
advance of justice compared with the existing
rule, that we should have cause for the deepest
thankfulness if it becomes law.
	The fate of the measure in the House of
Commons will depend greatly on the exigencies
of the session, and on the degree of support
which may be given it by the Government. If
it can be brought on without obstruction and
discussed upon its merits, there can be little
doubt of the result. The principle of the Bill
was accepted in the measure which was passed
for Scotland last session, and the mind of the
Legislature is now so fully committed to it that
the enactment of a measure to secure to married
women absolute posssssion and full control of
their own property seems only a question of
time and adequate efforts on behalf of those in-
terested in the subject.—Ex.


It is said that Senators Cockrell and Vest
favor the appointment of Phebe Cousins as
one of the Utah commissioners.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros. Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLES, old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting
Flannels, 		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 			Colored Yarns	 Brooms,
Linseys,			Cassimers,	 Washboards,
Jeans, 			Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 303, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

