VOL. 10.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1881.	NO. 10.


WRITTEN IN SICKNESS, WHEN VERY
YOUNG.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Oh! death! when thou art sent to call.
	My lagging Soul away,
Come not enwrapt in funeral pall
	And all thy dread array;

But friendly, softly, gently come,
	And whisper in mine ear—
I come to bear thy spirit Home
	Fly with me! never fear!

Enwrape thy form in sweet disguise,
	Thy voice, in sweetest tone—
Stand not before my startled eyes
	In thy gaunt case of bone?

But if I must thy form behold
	In palpable array,
Drop one by one, each screening fold.
	And fear shall flee away;

So, kindly, gently draw my breath,
	Point upward to the throne
Of Him, who laid Him down in death,
	And in the silent Tomb—

Why should I fear? Since He has died
	To rob thee of thy sting?—
Come hither Death what e'er betide
	I'll soar beneath thy wing!

Thou art His Voice to call me hence
	His Spirit guides thy Hand,
His power alone thy shafts dispense,
	Thy Mission—His command!

No more I strive—I'll go with thee,
	Gaunt Spectre! bear me hence,
My passive Soul would gladly flee
	To rest—and love intense.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

			CONTINUED.

	In the Spring of 1879, Sister Eliza com-
menced visiting the settlements in the interest
of woman's organizations and towards the last
of April attended a large Conference in Ogden
City, thence to Box Elder for the same pur-
pose and from there proceeded on the first day
of May towards Malad valley, stopping at each
settlement in that vicinity. In each of these
places where there were a sufficient number of
children she organized a Primary Association,
and in mnay places reorganized the Y. L. M. I.
A. In Malad City assisted the presiding au-
thorities in reorganizing the Relief Society of
that place; her labors seemed indeed arduous for
one of her years, but she heeded neither cold or
storm, traveling in all kinds of weather always
cheerful and ever ready to attend to the duties
of her mission, and administer to the sick and
afflicted when ever called upon in the places
she visited.
	During the ensuing summer she made an-
other tour through a large portion of Cache,
and all of Bear Lake County, returning by
the way of Rich County. While absent she
organized Primary Associations in the different
settlements she visited, and held something
near forty meetings; assisting in organizing
other Associations in several places. In her
journeyings from place to place among the
people she has in her remarks in public and

[Column 2]
private specially dwelt upon the necessity of
home industries and home manufacture en-
couraging the [---] all in her power to set
out mulberry trees and persevere in spite of
every obstacle in the raising of cocoons, and
promoting the silk enterprise, also in braiding
straw and wearing hats and bonnets made in
Utah, instead of sending for them from abroad,
and in all matters of becoming self-sustaining
she has ever used her utmost influence.
	Traveling among the people and meeting
them in their homes Sister Eliza has become
intimately acquainted with many thousands,
and her name is a household word in the dwell-
ing places in Zion. By thus associating she
became more than ever conscious of the need
of suitable books for the children of the Saints
to use in the Primary Associations, and accord-
ingly she decided to prepare a hymn book for
the little folks, and begun gathering together
material to be used for such a work.
	In August after returning from the fatiguing
journey through the northern settlements Sister
Eliza traveled through Wasatch Co. She as-
sisted the President of that Stake in organizing
the Relief Societies, and Y.L.M.I.A., in a Stake
capacity and also aided several Bishops in
making reorganizations of Relief Societies in
their respective wards. In addition to this she
organized the children in each of the settle-
ments she visited.
	The same fall the lady visited Sevier Co., and
while there organized and performed like duties
organizing Primary Associations etc. It was
at that time she took what she facetiously
terms her "famous ride." Going over to Glen-
wood through the canon the charioteer took
the wrong route or lost his way, and drove over
places where "man never trod before" at least
not in this day and age; the road was so rough
it was impossible to keep one's seat and the
party were well jumbled up. The ladies all
took the joke or mistake good-humoredly and
Sister Eliza, it is said frequently expressed her-
self as desirous they should come out of the
forest glen "into a place where they at least
spoke the English language." Remember dear
reader this lady was at that time seventy-five
years old, and yet she made no complaint of
fatigue or weariness; and she has often told
me since how magnificent the scenery was
through which they passed in that eventful
ride.
	In December of that year she visited Ogden
and spent two weeks in going through Weber
Co., attending meetings with Relief Societies,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
	At the residence of Sister Jane S. Richards
in Ogden Sister Eliza was the happy recipient
of two surprise parties arranged by the Primary
Associations of that city. The first was given
by the Third Ward P. A., and the next by the
Second Ward. There were from sixty to sev-
enty children on each occasion. who went
through a variety of exercises, singing, music,
recitations, dialogues, answering questions. etc.
	Sister Eliza in speaking of these occurrences
to me said "I never shall forget those two even-
ings." She also referred to the Conference of
the four Primary Associations of Ogden City
at that time as the crowning event of her
visit.
	In the early part of the year of 1880 Sister
Eliza spent much time in attending meetings
and organizing Primary Associations in Salt
Lake and adjoining Counties, and in assisting
the officers of these new organizations in prac-

[Column 3]
tically carrying out the counsel given by which
to conduct their meetings.
	In March Sister E.R.S.S. attended the
Conferences of Relief Societies, Y.L.M.I.A.
and P.A. of Weber Stake and took part in the
proceedings with Pres. John Taylor and Apos-
tle F.D. Richards.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

To the Members of the Association for the Ad-
vancement of Women:
	With the revolution of the year, the time
has come to invite you to attend the annual
meeting of the association. This year's Con-
gress, the ninth in order, will be held at Buf-
falo, N. Y., at St. James Hall, October 19, 20
and 21.
	These meetings were originally devised in
order to supply a need long felt and recognized,
the need of more extended intercourse, and
better acquaintance among the women who are
at once best able and most desirous to enlarge
the opportunities of their sex, and to raise the
standard of its hopes and attainments.
	The coming together from a vast and varied
extent of country of women devoted to these
objects cannot fail to do much in removing
the limits and barriers of local prejudice and
in bringing the best knowledge of each within
the reach of all.
	As years roll on the accumulation of exper-
ience makes it more and more possible for wo-
men to learn how they can best help each
other. Every good undertaking; moreover,
opens the way for some good work. The val-
ued record of our past meetings leads us to
hope that in the future their usefulness may
be increased rather than diminished; and that
we working in our day and generation, may
leave behind us results which will be helpful
to generations yet to come.
	In this hope we commend the Woman's Con-
gress of 1881 to the best efforts and best wishes
of all the members of the association.
		JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
		KATE GANNET WELLS, Secretary.


CORALIE at the Theatre Friday evening.

	THE ladies engaged in the practice and study
of medicine gave a garden party on the 5th of 
August, in the grounds of the London College
of Medicine for Women. It was attended by
a large and fashionable company of ladies and
gentlemen, many of the more prominent mem-
bers of the International Medical Congress—
especially the French, German and Russian
representatives of the profession—being among
the guests.

	MRS. Noyes, wife of the ex-Minister, during
her residence in Paris, her health being not
robust enough to permit of her going much
into society, was frequently confined to her
rooms. The thought occurred to her to unite
amusement with usefulness during her enforced
leisure. So, she sent for those well versed in
the art of making the finest artificial flowers,
and took regular lessons until she perfected
herself in that industry, intending on her re-
turn to Cincinnati to found there a class of
poor women, whom she will instruct in making
the finest artificial flowers used by ladies.


74	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES  AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following narrative I write in words of
soberness and truth, for the benefit of the
Saints, particularly the youth in Zion, as well
as those who have been so long seeking for the
exposition of "Mormonsim," or "Polygamy,"
but have failed, because they sought not the
truth,  but have preferred to believe the extrav-
agant tales told by those who misrepresent us.
	To such as believe "Mormon" women to be
the dupes and slaves of men, I will relate the
testimonies of my sainted mother and father,
which I heard repeatedly from their own lips
in days gone by. My mother said she could
not doubt that the principle of plurality of
wives was of divine origin, for the Lord had
shown it to her in answer to prayer.
	She was a very consciencious woman, and of
such strong faith that she never doubted after
once being convinced of the truth, but she had
to be convinced before accepting any principle.
It was three weeks after my father was bap-
tized into this Church before she saw the nec-
essity of again submitting to that ordinance 
(they had both been previously baptized into
the Baptist Church), and during that period
my father mourned for her as one would mourn
for the dead.
	In Nauvoo the Prophet's life was in constant
jeopardy, not only from outside influences and
enemies, who were seeking some plea to take
him back to Missouri, but from false brethren,
who had crept into his bosom and then be-
trayed him. Therefore, when he told my fa-
ther to take a second wife, he requested him to
keep it a secret and not divulge it even to my
mother, for fear that she would not receive the
principle. Father realized the situation fully,
and the love and reverence he felt for the
Prophet was so great that he would rather have
laid down his own life than have betrayed him.
This was the greatest test of his faith he had
ever experienced.
	When first hearing the principle taught, be-
lieving that he would be called upon to enter
into it, he thought of the two Sisters Pitkin,
who, as they were both elderly ladies and great
friends of my mother's, he believed would cause
her little if any unhappiness. The woman he
was commanded to take, however, was an En-
glish lady nearer my mother's age, who came
over with her husband and two little girls with
a company of Saints in the same ship in which
President Brigham Young and my father were
returning from their second mission to Europe.
She had been reared in luxury, but had the
misfortune to be married to a man who, though
of respectable and wealthy parents, and capa-
ble of carrying on a large business in the pot-
tery line, was a very dissipated man and ran
through with his own means and all of hers
that he could obtain. She had three wealthy
brothers, who took charge of her property, to
prevent her husband from squandering it. He
loved his wife and children with all the affec-
tion of which he was capable, but was so brutal
to them when under the influence of liquor,
that twice she had been obliged to leave him
and seek refuge in the homes of her brothers;
but after many professions and promises of re-
form she was induced to return. This was pre-
vious to their hearing of "Mormonism," so they
could not very well lay it to "Polygamy."
	Upon hearing the Gospel she received it; as
also her husband, but he was not sincere. Her
brothers considered this step unpardonable, and
thought they were more disgraced by her join-
ing the awful people called "Mormons," than 
in living with a drunken and dissolute hus-
band.
	The first time I ever saw him was a few days
after their arrival in Nauvoo; he was then half
intoxicated. She was proud and very sensi-

[Column 2]
tive, and being among strangers in a strange
land, it placed her under  very peculiar and
trying circumstances. My father and mother
and the neighbors were very kind to her. They
rented a log house of a Mr. Hibbard, an old
settler in Commerce. While living in their
house, Mr.—came home so drunk that his
abusive treatment of his wife and children out-
raged the feelings of Mr. Hibbard and family,
and they interfered and drove him from the
house. His wife could no longer live with him,
and soon after he returned to England.
	This, no doubt, was the cause of father's be-
ing told by the Prophet to take her and the
children, to provide them with a home; but
the thought of deceiving the kind and faithful
wife of his youth, whom he loved with all his
heart, and who with him had borne so patiently
their separation and all the trials and sacrifices
they had been called to endure, was more than
he felt able to bear. He realized not only the
addition of trouble and perplexities that such 
a step must bring upon him, but his sorrow
and misery were increased by the thought of
my mother hearing of it from some other
source, which would no doubt separate them
forever, and he shrank from the thought of
such a thing, or of causing her any unhappi-
ness. Finally he was so tried that he went to
Joseph and told him how he felt—that he was
fearful if he took such a step he could not
stand, but would be overcome. The Prophet
went and inquired of the Lord; His answer
was: "Tell him to go and do as he has been
commanded, and if I see that there is any
danger of his apostatizing, I will take him to 
myself."
	Father was heard many a time to say that
he had shed bushels of tears over this ORDER,
the order of "Celestial or plural marriage."
	The Prophet told him the third time before
he obeyed the command. This shows that the
trial must have been extraordinary, for he was 
a man who from the first had yielded implicit
obedience to every requirement of the Prophet.
	My mother had noticed a change in his
looks and appearance, and when she enquired
the cause he tried to evade her question, say-
ing it was only her imagination, or that he was
not feeling well, etc. But it so worked upon
his mind that his anxious and haggard looks
betrayed him daily and hourly, and finally his
misery became so unbearable that it was im-
possible to control his feelings. He became
sick in body, but his mental wretchedness was 
too great to allow of his retiring at night, and
instead of going to bed he would walk, the
floor, and the agony of his mind was so terri-
ble that he would wring his hands and weep,
beseeching the Lord with his whole soul to be
merciful and reveal to his wife the cause of his
great sorrow, for he himself could not break
his vow of secrecy. His anguish, and my
mother's were indescribable, and when unable
to endure it longer, she retired to her room,
where, with a broken and contrite heart she
poured out her grief to Him who hath said:
"If any lack wisdom let him ask of God, who
giveth to all men liberally, and unbraideth
not." "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
	My father's heart was raised at the same
time in supplication, and while pleading as one
would plead for  life, the vision of her mind
was opened, and as darkness fleeth before the
morning sun, so did her sorrow and the grov-
eling things of  earth vanish away; and before
her she saw the principle of Celestial Marriage
illustrated in all its beauty and glory, together
with the great exaltation and honor it would
confer upon her in that immortal and celestial
sphere if she would but accept it and stand in
her place by her husband's side. She was also
shown the woman he had taken to wife, and
contemplated with joy the vast and boundless
love and union which this order would bring

[Column 3]
about as well as the increase of kingdoms, 
power and glory extending throughout the
eternities, worlds without end.
	Her soul was satisfied and filled with the
Spirit of God. With a countenance beaming
with joy she returned to my father, saying,
"Heber, what you kept from me the Lord has
shown to me.
	She related the scene to me and to many
others, and told me she never saw so happy a
man as father was, when she described the
vision and told him she was satisfied and knew
that it was from God. She covenanted to
stand by him and honor the principle, which
covenant she faithfully kept, and though her
trials were often heavy and grievous to bear, 
her integrity was unflinching to the end.

To be continued.


A GOOD READER.

	There is one accomplishment, in particular,
which I would earnestly recommend to you.
Cultivate assiduously the ability to read well.
I stop to particularize this, because it is so very
much neglected, and because it is so elegant,
charming and ladylike an accomplishment.
Where one person is really interested by music,
twenty are pleased by good reading. Where
one person is capable of becoming a skilful
musician, twenty may become good readers.
Where there is one occasion suitable for the
exercise of musical talent, there are twenty
for that of good reading.
	The culture of the voice necessary for read-
ing well gives a delightful charm to the same
voice in conversation. Good reading is the
natural exponent and vehicle of all good
things. It is the most effective of all commen-
taries upon the works of genius. It seems to
bring dead authors to life again and makes us
sit down familiarly with the great and good of
all ages.
	Did you ever notice what life and power the
Holy Scripture has when well read? Have
you ever heard the wonderful effects produced
by Elizabeth Fry on the criminals of Newgate,
by simply reading to them the parable of the
Prodigal Son? Princes and peers of the realm,
it is said, counted it a privilege to stand in the
dismal corridors, among felons and murderers,
merely to share with them the privilege of wit-
nessing the marvelous pathos which genius,
taste and culture could infuse into that simple
story.
	What a fascination there is in really good
reading. What a power it gives one! In the
hospital, in the chamber of the invalid, in the
nursery, in the domestic and in the social cir-
cle, among chosen friends and companions, how
it enables you to minister to the amusement,
the comfort, the pleasure of dear ones, as no
other art or accomplishment can. No instru-
ment of man's devising can reach the heart as
does that most wonderful instrument, the hu-
man voice. It is God's special gift and endow-
ment to his chosen creatures. Fold it not
away in a napkin.
	If you would double the value of all your
other acquisitions, if you would add immeas-
urably to your own enjoyment and to your
power of promoting the enjoyment of others,
cultivate with incessant care this divine gift.
No music below the skies is equal to that of
pure, silvery speech from the lips of a man or
woman of high culture.
—Ex.					JOHN S. HART.


IF man, or woman either, wishes to realize
the full power of personal beauty, it must be
by cherishing noble hopes and purposes, by
having something to do and something to live
for.—Prof. Upham


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 75


OUR JUDGE.

So many different lives, have different phases
	Wherefore we cannot tell, but this we see—
To some, "the lines have fallen in pleasant places"
	While others, day by day, must martyrs be.

Who is so perfect, who so free from guile—
	To judge another, every way aright?
God only sees, each circumstance and trial,
	And knows the warfare that His children fight.

"Tis well, the lives of all, are understood—
	By One! whose judgment, is both wise and even.
If unto some, "tis easy to be good—
	Unto the sorely tried is much forgiven.

But none of us are privileged to ignore—
	Our sense of Right, the monitor within;
The duty being nearest to our door
	We must perform, although no praise 'twill win.

E'en though misunderstood, or blamed by others,
	We must be ever to our conscience true
And from the heart, this ceaseless prayer must offer—
	What is it Lord that thou wouldst have me do?

And when to heaven, with trusting hearts and tender—
	We guidance seek, and tread the path we see—
Not unto Man, excuses need we render,
	Who reads his brother, so imperfectly.

It matters not, if high or low our place is;
	Nor even if one sky be black or bright;
Sufficient 'tis to know that One! most gracious,
	Doth in compassion, judge us all aright.

God bringeth down, He also lifteth up;
	"Promotion! cometh not from East or West"
If sweet or bitter our appointed cup—
	Shall we not drink it? trusting it is best.

Be sure of this, where much is freely given—
	There much will be expected, much, required,
But who 'gainst fearful odds has bravely striven—
	Shall be rewarded, with the bliss desired.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
		S. L. City.


[Column 1]
THE GIFT OF HEALING

	Feeling a desire to inspire my sisters, and
more especially the rising generation, with faith
in the gifts and blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel, which has been restored in the day and
age in which we are privileged to live, I desire
to make a faithfal statement of a few incidents
in my life, both before and after I embraced
the Gospel, where the prayer of faith in con-
nection with the anointing with holy oil, has
been answered.	
	In the year 1840 Brothers Phineas Richards,
Samuel Parker, Joseph Ball and Wm. W.
Burt camo to the town of Mansfield, Tolland
County, Conn., my native home, bringing with
them the glad tidings of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, declaring that it had been restored with
all its gifts and blessings, and that the Lord
had spoken to an unlearned boy, had made
known His mind and will unto him, that he
was to be the honored instrument in His hands
of laying the foundation of the great Latter-
day work.
	I had at that time a dear and only sister,
who had been prostrated for three weary years,
with disease of the spine, being much of the time
[---] helpless as an snfant, only being moved from
her bed to her easy chair while her bed was
made. My father employed the best medical
assistance that could be found in that region.
One very skillful physician constantly and at
times a council of physicians. She was seven-
teen years of age when she was confined to her
bed, and the circumstance. I am about to relate
transpired when she was twenty. In all the
three years during which she had been under
medical treatment, I feel safe in saying she
had suffered death a hundred times in having
caustic preparations bound on her back to
cause issues, also blisters, se[-]ons and other se-
vere remedies known to old school physicians.
When the sores caused by this treatment were

[Column 2]
running she, was able to walk a few steps other-
wise she was as helpless as an infant until the
ordeal was repeated.
	The day previous to Brother Richard's visit
to my father's house, the physician who had
been her constant attendant for three years
told her he had done all he could for her, and
that he did not think it possible that she could
ever walk.
	Father Richards, being in the neighborhood,
heard of her affliction, visited her, and told
her it was her privilege to be healed, if she
would only have faith in God. Said the Gos-
pel had been restored, and with the gifts and
blessings whtch had been enjoyed in former
days. He spent some time in conversing with
her and my mother, trying to inspire them
with faith. He finally told them that he
should "stop with one of our neighbors over
night, and if they could exercise sufficient faith
in God and desired him to administer to her,
he would do so in the morning. He came,
anointed her with oil, administered unto her,
and to our surprise and delight she arose and
walked out into the orchard, and on the fol-
lowing Sabbath walked one and a half miles
to meeting.
	Previous to Brother Richards' administra-
tion she made a covenant, that in case she was
healed she would embrace the Gospel, which
she did.
	I well remember when I first heard a song
of Zion. It was at a prayer meeting in my
father's house when my dear sister arose and
sang as I never heard mortal sing before. She
was always of a delicate constitution, but after
she received the Gospel she seemed almost too
happy for earth, and said if she could be al-
lowed to gather with the Saints and behold the
Prophet Joseph she would be willing to die.
This privilege was granted her in the fall of
1841.
	In the summer of 1842 a gentleman from
St. Mary's, twenty-eight miles east of Nauvoo,
came there for assistance to carry on the silk
business. Sister Laurinda Robinson, who now
lives in Farmington, and my sister went to St.
Mary's for that purpose, as they were familiar
with that branch of business. On their way
there the flies annoyed the horses to such a de-
gree that they became nearly unmanageable,
so that they were afraid to ride. My sister not
being strong enough to bear the unusual fa-
tigue and exertaion of walking so much, was
taken ill upon her arrival at St. Mary's and
lived only two weeks, and was brought to Nau-
voo and buried with the Saints. There are
those in Utah who can testify to the truth of
what I have written. At the laying of the
corner stone of the Manti Temple Apostle
Franklin D. Richards visited me, and told my
mother that his father had the circumstance
written in his journal.
	I will now relate another circumstance which
occurred in my own life, after I had gathered
with the Saints at Nauvoo. I arrived there in
the spring of 1841, while my father's family
did not come until November of that year.
When they arrived I was confined to my bed
with canker in the mouth and throat. My fa-
ther procured a house as soon as possible, and
I was taken there on a bed. I continued to
get worse, and my life was despaired of. My
throat was eaten full of holes, and I could take
no nourishment, not even water, without suffer-
ing great pain in the effort to swallow. We
were living in a house with Brother Benjamin
Brown's family; he was absent in the State of
New York, on a mission, Sister Brown told
mother, that Bro. Brown had been wonderfully
blessed with the gift of healing. He came
home in a few days, and administered to me; I
was too low to exercise faith for myself, but
mother felt that I would be healed uuder Bro.
Brown's administration, which was the case, as
I was instantly healed after taking a spoonful

[Column 3]
of consecrated oil, so that I could eat anything
I desired.
	I can bear testimony that I know for myself
that the gifts and blessings of the Gospel are
received and enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
and that the consecrated oil is a healing balm
for every affliction to which mortals are heir;
and if the rising generation are properly
trained, they will net require drugs and medi-
cines, but will live by faith in the ordinances
of the Everlasting Gospel.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					REBECCA WAREHAM.
	Manti, Oct. 9, 1881.


DANTE'S DREAM AT THE DEATH OF
BEATRICE.

	Probably the most important, and certainly
the largest, of Mr. Rossetti's pictures, that
called "Dante's Dream." is now for the
first publicly shown, being included in the
Liverpool Exhibition. This noble gallery
picture, the only one by the artist which is
monumental in size, has been thus described by
the painter: "It embodies Dante's dream on
the day of the death of Beatrice, in which, with
many portents and omens, he is led by love
himself to the bedside of the dead lady, and
sees other ladies covering her with a red veil
as she lies in death. The scene is a chamber
of dreams, where Beatrice is lying on a couch
recessed in the wall as if just fallen back in
death. The winged and glowing figure of love
(the pilgrim Love of the 'Vita Nuova,' wearing
the scallop-shell on his shoulder) leads by the
hand Dante, who walks, unconscious but
absorbed, as if in sleep. Love carries his arrow
pointed at the dreamer's heart, and with a
figurative apple blossom too early plucked.
Love bends over Beatrice and kisses her, as
her lover had never done. Two dream ladies
hold the pail, full of may bloom suspended for
an instant before it covers her face forever."
The pathos of this fine picture lies of course in
the consummate sadness and grave, mournful
character of the design,the dignified tenderness
of the ladies' faces as they look on the life-
parting of those who had been lovers of the
heart and mind; the stately grace of their at-
titudes, and the sober, glowing and wonderfully
rich coloring of their broad, almost statuesque
draperies, are among the most striking qualities
of this superb painting. In no technical re-
spect has it higher merits than in its style, that
rarest of all qualities in English art. The or-
iginality and power of the work affect the
visitor exactly as a first-class specimen of an old
master of high degree affects him. In saying
this we bear very high testimony indeed to the
picture's merits. In one respect this exhibition
is almost unique, no other painting of equal
pretensions by Mr. Rossetti has before been
shown in a public gallery.—London Athenosum.


O. F. Whitney's benifit at the theatre Fri-
day Evening the 21st inst.

	AN old home is like an old violin, the music
of the past is wrought into in—Catherine Sedg-
wick.

	THE Lancet says.—"The Princess Frederica
is about to establish a convalescent home for
poor women after childbirth in the neighbor-
hood of Hampton Court.

	THE bridal veil for the Princess Victoria of
Baden, who has just been married to the Crown
Prince of Sweden, was six yards long; the ends
display alternately the arms of Sweden and
Baden, and the general design is composed of
oranges and myrtles, the borders representing
work, even the foundation, has been done with
the needle at a Hirschberg lace factory.


76	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the prices of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West. Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	OCTOBER 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

APOSTLE ORSON PRATT.

	The venerable and beloved Apostle, Orson
Pratt departed this life on the morning of Octo-
ber 3, at twenty minutes to nine o'clock. "He
has been about a year in feeble health, and at
times suffered severely with pain of a most ag-
gravating nature. Occasionally he would rally
considerably, and his frisnds entertained fond
hopes of his recovery to health and strength.
The Lord in His providence seems to have or-
dered it otherwise, and this great, grand and no-
ble man has gone behind the vail, to join the
Prophet Joseph, Hyrum the Patriarch, and
hosts of Saints who are laboring in another
sphere for the redemption of the human family.
	Brother Pratt had attained the age of three
score and ten, and on the 18th of September, the
day previous to his birthday, he spoke to a large
congregation in the Tabernacle in this city for
about twenty minutes. Many who heard him
on that occasion seemed to be deeply impressed
with the idea that it would be the last time he
would ever address a public meeting, alhough
hia voice was clear and his manner earnest and
forcible.
	"Orson Pratt was born in Hartford, Washing-
ton County, New York, September 19, 1811, and
was the son of Jared and Charity (Dickinson)
Pratt. His father was a descendant of William
Pratt, who, with his brother John, came to this
country from England with the Pilgrim Fathers,
and afterwards located at Hartford, Connecti-
cut, in June, 1636, having, as supposed, accom-
panied Rev. Thos. Hooker and others of his con-
gregation from Newton, now called Cambridge,
Massachusetts, to settle at Hartford. William
Pratt was a member of the Connecticut Legis-
lature during some twenty-five or thirty sessions,
and was one of the Judges of the first court in
New London County."
	"During Orson Pratt's boyhood "the family re-
moved to New Lebanon, in Columbia County,
where he attended school until 1825, acquiring a
common school education, and becoming famil-
iar with arithmetic and book-keeping. He also
studied the Bible. From the time he was eleven
years old, he worked at farming in different
places, attending school in the winter, going to
Lorain County, Ohio, in the fall of 1827, and in
the fall of 1828, performed a journey of nearly
seven hundred miles to Connecticut, went
thence to Long Island, and in the winter of
1829-30 studied geography, grammar and survey-
ing at a boarding academy.
	"In September, 1830, his brother, Parley P.
Pratt, who had embraced the Gospel taught by
Joseph Smith the Prophet, came with another
Elder to the place where Orson was residing, who
received their testimony and was baptized Sep-
tember 19, 1830, his birthday, being then nine-
teen years old. In the following month he
raveled two hundred miles to see the Prophet

[Column 2]
Joseph, in Fayette, Seneca County, New York,
and on the 4th of November received through
that servant of God the revelation to be found
in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section xxxiv,
lastest edition, in which he was called of God to
preach the Gospel, to lift up his voice both long
aud loud, to cry repentance, and prepare the
way before the coming of the Lord.
	"He was confirmed and ordained an Elder, De-
cember 1, 1830, and went on his first mission to
Colesville, Broome County, New York, and in
the early part of 1831, went on foot to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Prophet had removed, a dis-
tance of seven hundred miles. He then per-
formed several missions in Ohio, Illinois and
Missouri, baptizing many converts. At a con-
ference in Amherst, Ohio, he was set apart June
25, 1832, to preside over the Elders, and was sent
on a mission to the Eastern States. February
1, 1832; he was ordained a High Priest.
	"He then traveled and preached without purse
or scrip, through Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jer-
sey and New York City to Long Island, thence
northeast through part of Vermont into New
Hampshire, preaching and baptizing by the way
and making many converts in Bath, N. H.,
Charleston, Vermont, and then proceeding to
the southern part of Connecticut, with contin-
ued success. After laboring in these parts till
the fall of 1832, he started west, traveling some
three or four hundred miles, preaching, baptiz-
ing, ordaining men to the ministry, and laboring
in many parts of New York, and arrived in Kirt-
land, Ohio, Feb. 17, 1833, having traveled on
foot about 4,000 miles, baptized 104 persons, and
organized several new branches.
	"Here he attended the School of the Prophets
and again went East, performing another suc-
cessful mission, traveling 2,000 miles in six
months, and baptizing over fifty persons. After
laboring on the House of the Lord, he started
on Nov. 27, to visit the eastern churches, and
returned to Kirtland Feb. 13, 1834, having trav-
eled about 1,000 miles.
	"In thirteen days he was started out again, with
Elder Orson Hyde on a special mission, being
absent about two months, traveling 800 miles.
He next traveled with Zion's Camp to Missouri,
being captain of a company. July 7th he was
ordained one of the standing High Council in
Zion, visited the scattered churches in Clay
County, and in August was sent eastward, trav-
eling through Illinois and Indiana to Ohio, suf-
fering severely through fatigue and ague, arriv-
ing in Kirtland April 26, 1835, on which day he
was ordained one of the Twelve Apostles, under
the hands of David Whitmer and Oliver Cow-
dery. On May 4th he went on another mission
to the Eastern States, being absent a little over
six months. During the winter and early
spring he taught a grammar school in Kirtland,
and also studied Hebrew, and then received his
endowments in the Kirtland Temple. His next
mission was to the Canada West, on which he left
April 6, 1836, baptized many persons and raised
up several branches of the Church.
	"On July 4th he was married to Sarah M.
Bates, whom he had baptized in Sackett's Har-
bor, June 13, 1835. In the fall, having returned
to Kirtland, he studied algebra, and after pro-
viding a home for his wife, went to the State of
New York and labored in the ministry during
the winter of 1837-8. In April, 1838, the Saints
having been driven from Far West, he went
there to fulfil a revelation, and with several of
the Twelve, met at the cornerstone of the Tem-
ple, whence they parted to preach the Gospel to
foreign nations.
	"In the fall he preached through the eastern
churches, and in the spring of 1840 embarked
for England, preached nine months in Edin-
burgh, Scotland, raised up a branch of over 200
persons, and in the spring of 1841 started to re-

[Column 3]
turn to America. He went to Nauvoo, where
he took charge of a mathematical school; then
took a mission through the Eastern States in the
summer of 1843, and on his return in the fall
was elected to the City Council; helped to draw
up a memorial to Congress, and went to Wash-
ington to present it in the spring of 1844. He
labored among the churches east till the news
of the martyrdom of the Prophet was received,
when he returned to Nauvoo.
	"During the difficulties that succeeded the
death of the Prophet and Patriarch, he labored
with the Twelve, which was the presiding quo-
rum of the Church, in the management of its
affairs, shared in the expulsion from Nauvoo,
crossed the plains with the pioneers in 1847, and
on the way, when weather would permit, took
astronomical and other scientific observations,
determining, by the aid of the sextant and cir-
cle of reflection, the latitudes and longitudes of
the most prominent places, the changes of ele-
vation above sea level, etc., in anticipation of the
great highway which even then it was expected
by the Saints would span this vast continent.
He was the first to enter Salt Lake Valley, hav-
ing preceded the main body of the company
three days.
	"In 1848 he was appointed President over all
the branches of the Church in England, Scot-
land, Wales, Ireland, and adjacent counties,
starting on the 11th of May. The number of
Church members then was about eighteen thou-
sand, which, during his presidency of two years,
was increased to about twenty-six thousand. In
this short period he chartered and fitted out
from fifteen to eighteen ships loaded with Saints
for Utah. In the midst of this press of business,
he wrote some fifteen pamphlets, and published
and circulated several hundred thousand of
them in different languages. At the same time
he edited the Millennial Star, and increased its
circulation from less than four thousand to nearly
twenty-three thousand. He lectured, at differ-
ent times, to large audiences in the principal
cities of England and Scotland.
	"He returned in 1851, and in the winter of
1851 delivered a series of twelve astronomical
lectures to crowded audiences in the old Taber-
nacle, which were published in the Deseret
News. He was elected a member of the Legis-
lative Assembly during its first session, and at
each successive session when he was in the Ter-
ritory, and seven times was chosen Speaker of
the House.
	"In 1852 he was appointed on a mission to
Washington, to take the Presidential charge of
all the churches in the United States and Brit-
ish Provinces east of the Rocky Mountains, and
there published the Seer. In the spring and
summer of 1853 he again went on a mission to
Europe, returning the following year. On the
22d of April, 1856, he again went to England
and presided over the European mission, pub-
lishing more pamphlets, and returned by way
of California while the army was en route to
Utah, arriving home in January, 1858. On Sep-
tember 22, 1860, he was called on a mission to
the United States, being gone about one year.
On the 24th of April, 1864, he was set apart for
a mission to Austria. He went to that land,
but in consequence of the stringent laws was
unable to open the door of the kingdom to that
nation, but bore his testimony to the authorities
and left, going over to England, where he vis-
ited the conferences and labored assiduously, re-
turning August 4, 1867. In 1869 he went to
New York City and transcribed and published
the Book of Mormon in phonetic characters,
called the Deseret Alphabet.
	"In August, 1870, he held the famous three
days' discussion with Dr. J. P. Newman on the
subject of Polygamy, which; is printed in book
form and for sale.


[Column 1]
	"At the adjourned General Conference in 1874'
he was appointed and sustained Historian and
General Church Recorder, which position he re-
tained till his decease.
	"On the 18th of July, 1877, he once more left
to cross the ocean, this time to transcribe and
publish an edition of the Book of Mormon in
the Pitman phonetic characters. He was soon
called home, and returned on the 27th of Sep-
tember. On the 3d of September, 1878, he went
East with Apostle Joseph F. Smith, visiting
the Whitmers in Missouri, the Hill Cumorah
and other places figuring in the history of the
Church, and returned on the 3d of October. On
the 3d of December he started again for Eng-
land, to stereotype the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, which he arranged in
verses, with foot notes and references. From
this important and laborious mission, he returned
September 2, 1879. He visited a number of
Conferences, attended the Legislature, acting in
his usual capacity of Speaker of the House.
After that time his health was poor, he could do
little in the Historian's Office."
	He preached often afterwards in the Taberna-
cle, thrilling his hearers with his wonderful and
powerful eloquence, and also traveled and
preached considerably in the Territory, visiting
Stake Conferences, etc.
	"He was the last of the original Council of
the Twelve Apostles of this Church. He
crossed the ocean sixteen times on missions of
salvation. He found time to study the higher
mathematics, and in addition to his published
scientific books, has left an elaborate work in
manuscript on the Differential Calculus, con-
taining original principles. He was the father
of sixteen sons and sixteen daughters, and leaves
forty three grandchildren.
	"Following is a list of most of the works
which he has published: 
	Divine Authority; Kingdom of God, in four
parts; Remaakable Visions; Divine Authenticity
of the Book of Mormon, in six parts, Reply to
'Remarks on Mormonism;' Great First Cause;
New Jerusalem; Absurdities of Immaterialism; 
The Seer, in eighteen numbers; Eight Tracts
on the First Principles of the Gospel; Cubic and
Biquadratic Equations; Key to the Universe, or
a New Theory of its Mechanism; etc., etc."
	The funeral services of Apostle Orson Pratt
were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, Oct.
6th, commencing at one o'clock.
	Directly after the morning services of the
Conference, the casket containing the remains
of the deceased was placed in a position for the
people to have an opportunity of looking upon
the face of the departed Apostle, whose voice
had so often resounded through that Tabernacle 
and in various places among the nations, and
whose arguments had carried to so many hearts
convincing proof of the truth of the everlasting
gospel. The coffin was covered with the most
lovely and fragrant flowers, woven in a variety
of beautiful designs, appropriate as symbols of
the life and labors of one who had filled the
measure of his days with honor and useful-
ness.
	The Large Tabernacle was filled in every part
by the appointed time, and it seemed appropri-
ate that the funeral services of one so long con-
nected with the Church should be held at its
semi-annual Conference, that the people from
all parts of the Territory might thus have the
opportunity of paying their last respects to one
who had been so widely known and so sincere-
ly beloved by the Latter-day Saints.
	The choir sang, "Hark from afar a funeral
knell."
	Prayer by President Joseph F. Smith.
	The choir sang, "Thon dost not weep to weep
alone."

[Column 2]
President Wilford Woodruff read from the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation
through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Orson Pratt,
given November 4th, 18[-]0, and then proceeded
to make some remarks upon the life and labors
of his fellow-laborer. Said Brother Pratt's gar
ments were clean from the blood of this genera-
tion, and that he had studied and written mor'e
upon the Gospel and upon science than any man
in the Church. His remarks were consoling,
and his exhortation to the living earnest and im-
pressive.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow said his feelings were
very similar to those of Bro. Woodruff; said
"Could Brother Pratt have the privilege to com-
municate with us he would say, 'Mourn not for
me, I have passed through the fiery ordeal, I
have, through the blessing of God, obtained the
victory, and there is secured to me the privilege
of receiving a body glorified. That body through
which I have ministered shall be made glorious.
I have been enabled to pass through affliction
and temptation, and obtained the victory."
	Apostle F. D. Richards also occupied a few
moments. Said Bro. Pratt's life had been dis-
tinguished by the labors of over half a century
in this cause, and spoke of him as a studious
and assiduous worker, and of the opinions of Prof.
Proctor that Bro. Pratt's works on astronomy
were entitled to the admiration and respect of
the scientific world.
	President John Taylor then addressed the con-
gregation, dwelling upon the labors of those who
bear the holy priesthood, and the mission men
had to perform who held that priesthood, both
here and behind the vail. The speaker also
made allusion to the death of Elder F. L. Young,
for whom memorial services were being held in 
connection with those of Apostle Orson Pratt.
	Prest. George Q. Cannon spoke of his feelings
on hearing of the death of Bro. Pratt, immedi-
ately followed by the sad message, bringing tid-
ings of the demise of Bro. F. L. Young, and
during the same day the accidental death of
Bro. Pullen, who fell from the top of the Tem-
ple to the ground. He spoke feelingly of Bro.
Young, his purity of life and nobility of charac-
ter, his integrity to the kingdom of God, and
expressed heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved.
	The choir sang, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Benediction by Coun. D. H.
Wells.
	"The vast assembly remained seated while the
families of the bereaved and the leading author-
ities of the Church withdrew to attend to the
interment.
	"The remains of the departed Apostle were
then convey d to their resting place, there to
sleep until called forth by the trump of the res-
surrection. A carriage containing members of 
the Twelve, preceded the hearse in the proces-
sion; the First Presidency of the Church and
Bishop Hunter occupied the carriage which was
fifteenth from the head. Then followed an ex-
ceedingly large cortege, the whole comprised of
fifty-nine carriages filled with mourners.
	"Farewell, Brother Orson Pratt, until we meet
you in the Paradise of God, or until the bright
morning of the glorious day when they that
are in Christ shall come forth to greet the Sun
of Righteousness, and enter into their domin-
ion as Kings and Priests unto God for ever."

FERAMORZ LITTLE YOUNG.

	News was received in this city, by telegram,
on Monday morning, Oct. 3, of the death at sea
of Elder F. L. Young, of typhoid fever, one
hundred miles out of Havanna as he was re-
turning from a Mission to Mexico, in company
with Apostle Moses Thatcher. Elder Young
left home to fill this mision with Elder Thatcher

[Column 3]
November 17, 1880. While in Mexico he labor-
ed diligently, studying the Spanish language,
and assisted Elders Thatcher and Stewart in
publishing articles and pamphlets in Spanish,
to promote the spread of the gospel in that
language. His health was delicate and he
had written home to that effect,
but no serious apprehensions of immedi-
ate danger were entertained concerning him,
and he was expected home on the evening of the
2nd inst., and in fond anticipation of his arrival,
his sisters and some others went to the depot to
welcome him.

"Expecting still his advent home,
And ever met him on his way
With wishes, thinking, here to-day,
Or here to-morrow will he come."

	From this it may be imagined how unex-
pected was the news of his death the following
morning. A whole household plunged momen-
tarily into the depths of sorrow and mourn-
ing for a brother and son.
	Ferrie Young was so noble, so angelic in his
nature, so attractive in his manner, and possessed
so many manly virtues and characteris-
tics of the highest type, that to know 
him was to love him, therefore he had hosts of
friends to mourn the loss of his society. 
	Feramorz Little Young was the son of the late
President Brigham Young and Mrs. Lucy
Decker Young, and was born in Salt Lake City,
September 16, 1858. He was a studious boy, al-
ways religiously inclined and thoughtful beyond
his years. His early education was received at
the Deseret University in this city, where he
made rapid progress, and when he was scarce
sixteen, he was sent to the Naval Academy at
Annapolis, Maryland. He remained there two
years and then entered the Polytechnic Insti-
tute at Troy, New York, from which he gradu-
ated in 1880. He was greatly beloved by his as-
sociates at home and abroad.
	Brother Feramorz sleeps beneath the ocean
waves, but his rest will be as tranquil and as
sweet as though his body lay in the grave in his
own mountain home, and in the morning of the
first resurrection, when the sea gives up its
dead, he will arise and receive again the body
he laid down with the Gospel armor on—in the
service of his Lord and Master.
	May the peace of heaven rest upon the be-
reaved ones, the joy and consolation of the Holy
Spirit fill their hearts, and the bright anticipa-
tion of the future meeting behind the veil com-
fort them in their hours of grief and mourning
for the loved one gone before.

BISHOP EDWIN DILWORTH WOOLLEY.

	DIED, at his residence in the 13th Ward of
this city, just past midnight, Friday, Oct. 14,
Bishop Edwin Dilworth Woolley, aged 74 years,
3 months and 16 days.
	Bishop Woolley was well known and highly
respected among the Saints. He was born at
West Chester, Chester Co., Penn., on the 28th
of June, 1807, and was raised a Quaker. He
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints at Rochester, Ohio, in 1837,
emigrated to Quincy, Illinois, in 1839, and re-
moved to Nauvoo in 1840. Shared in the perse-
cutions of the Saints at the time of their expul-
sion from that ill-fated city, leaving on the 5th
of June, 1846, and proceeded with his family to
Winter Quarters. He came to Utah in Presi-
dent Brigham Young's company in 1848, and 
has ever since resided in S. L. City.
	In November of 1853 Brother Woolley was or-
dained Bishop over the 13th Ward, which office he
held at the time of his death. Deceased leaves a
large family to mourn the loss of a kind father
and friend; he was a most excellent husband and
father, honest industrious, and upright in all


respects. Bro. Woolley has filled several impor-
tant missions in the Church at different times,
and has served several sessions as a Representa-
tive in the Legislative Assembly of Utah. He
was an intimate friend of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his integrity to the Gospel was un-
questionable. We deeply sympathize with his
bereaved family in the loss of his society and
counsel, but he has gone to join the companion of
his youth and many dear friends on "the other
shore" where there is no more parting forever.
The faithful and honest man, the persevering en-
ergetic and prudent Bishop has gone to rest.
"Peace to his ashes;" May the remembrance
of his upright and honorable life inspire his
children and others to follow in his foot-steps.
His funeral will be held in the large Taberna-
cle, Sunday morning Oct. 16, at 10 o'clock A. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 77


78	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG attended the Vermont
Woman's Temperance Convention and was in-
vited to speak, but as the time was limited she
only occupied a few minutes.
	LOUIS VIALLET, the French dyer, solicits the pat-
ronage of the ladies at his store on First South
Street, No. 47, near the Theatre. Silk and
woolen dresses, gloves and other articles of
wearing apparel cleaned and dyed. Orders will
be attended to promptly. Br. Viallet is experi-
enced in this business and ladies need no longer
be under the necessity of sending dresses East to
be cleaned and colored.

	A MEETING of the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday evening, Oct. 8; excellent instructions
were given by Prest. John Taylor and Prest.
Wilford Woodruff. An earnest and stirring ap-
peal was made to the young by Elder Junius F.
Wells. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the
central organization of Y. L. M. I. A., ably and
eloquently represented the interests of the
young ladies.

	THE Fifty-first Semi-Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
was held in the large Tabernacle in the city,
commencing Thursday, Oct. 6, at 10 o'clock a.
m., and continued four days. Much good in-
struction was given by the Presidency and
Twelve Apostles on all subjects pertaining to
the work of the kingdom of God. The congre-
gations were very large, many having come
from a great distance to attend the Conference.

	THE fifth volume of the "Faith Promoting se-
ries" is now offered for sale to the public. It is
entitled, "Jacob Hamblin," and is a thrilling
narrative of the life of a man, who has had great
faith and trust in God, and whose life has been
replete with strange and miraculous interposi-
tions of Providence. Many years of his later life
has been spent in missionary work among the
Indians, and the marvelous manifesetations of
the power of God in his behalf are almost unsur-
passed in history. We recommend this book to
the youth of Zion as one of the most powerful
agents to inspire them with faith they could pos-
sibly have, and have no doubt it will do much
towards strengthening the faith of both old and
young. The book is for sale at the office
of the Juvenile Instructor and the Deseret
News establishment. It contains 140 pages of
reading matter. Price 35 cts.

	Mrs. E. R. Shipp M. D., advertises her class in
Obstetrics to open Nov. 1st. proximo. This will
afford an opportunity for those sisters who desire
to become proficient in the profession of mid
wifery, which is really a branch of science that
should receive special attention. Mrs. Shipp's

[Column 2]
terms for students are stated in the advertise-
ment and also cost of books etc. Dr. Shipp is
well known among the Latter-day Saints, she
graduated at the Woman's Medical Collage in
Philadelphia and has had considerable experience
as a physician in this city and many parts of the
Territory, and is fully capable of giving the re-
quired instruction in this important branch of
her profession.
	It would be well for those who expect to prac-
tise as midwives to be thorough in their studies,
in order to avoid any evil results from lack of
knowledge of the human body, and the various
conditions of the system as relating to mater-
nity.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city, was in
the city of Hartford, Conn., visiting Mrs. Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker, at the time of the Memo-
rial Services for President Garfield. Rev. Mr.
Kimball, of Unity Church in that city, invited
her to take part in the services with Mrs.
Hooker, which invitation she accepted, and oc-
cupied twenty minutes in speaking. While
visiting in Hartford she has had the opportu-
nity of meeting many noted persons, who are
much interested in her efforts to remove preju-
dice from the minds of the people concerning
the Latter-day Saints.
	Dr. Ferguson has been invited to attend the
Woman's Congress to be held at Buffalo on the
19th, 20th and 21st of this month. She will
read a paper there entitled, "Can Women Or-
ganize," in which she will incorporate the vari-
ous women's organization in this Church, in-
cluding the very successful efforts made in seri-
culture.

	"BIBLE Questions and Answers," the new
book for the Primary Associations, edited by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, is now ready and for sale
at this Office and at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor, where it was published. This little
work will greatly facilitate the labor of the offi-
cers of these associations, and the author has
taken great pains to make the answers brief and
simple, that the children may comprehend
them and commit them to memory readily.
The most interesting and important incidents
concerning the most noted Bible characters, and
the dealings of the Lord with His people an-
ciently, may thus be engrafted upon the minds
of the little folks. Every Association should
procure two of these, that one of the officers
may ask the question and another answer it, the
children repeating the answer in concert after
her. About twenty chapters treat of Old Testa-
ment subjects, the next twenty of the New, and
the others of the Latter-day dispensation and
the prophecies of Joel, Isaiah, etc. The book
contains 44 chapters, 129 pages, and is suitable
for Sunday Schools as well as Primary Associa-
tions, or for family use. We heartily recom-
mend it to the Latter-day Saints. Price twenty-
five cents.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

BOX ELDER.

	Quarterly Conference of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Box Elder Stake opened at two p.
m. Wednesday, Sept. 14, 1881, in Brigham
City Meeting House, Pres't. Abagail S. Rosen-
baum presiding. Present on the stand were
officers of the P. A., the President and officers of
Relief Society; also Superintendent of Y. L.
A., Patriarch Box, Superintendent Kelly, Sis-
ters E. Howard, of Salt Lake City, and J. S.
Richards, from Ogden. Singing, "Come, chil-
dren, come," &c. Prayer by Coun. M. E.
Wilde.  Singing, "In the chambers of the
mountains." Minutes of the previous Confer-


ence read and approved. Condensed report of
the Stake read by the Secretary; also a report
read stating the condition of the Societies
which had been visited since last Conference;
all were reported favorably. The Treasurer's
account was then read. Sister Genie S. Pierce
was then sustained as Corresponding Secretary
of the Stake by a unanimous vote, also Miss
Amelia Graehl as Stake Organist.
	The Program consisted of songs and reci-
tations from the children. Sisters Howard
and Richards gave some excellent instructions,
which the children and all present seemed to
appreciate, followed by Supt. Kelly, Pres't.
Harriet A. Snow and Patriarch Box. Officers
of the Primary Association were then sus-﻿
tained and Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Joseph Smith's first
prayer." Benediction by Coun. Phebe W.
Snow.
	Condensed report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Box Elder Stake, viz., the First, Sec-
ond and Third Wards of Brigham City, Man-
tua, Willard, West Portage, Snowville, Three
Mile Creek, North Ward, Lake Side District,
Bear River City, Calls Fort, Malad Ward and
Samhria.
	Number of officers presiding over the above-
named associations, 76, Members enrolled,
1,093. Average attendance, 484. Number of
meetings held, 700. Amount donated since
the organization, $156.70. Amount disbursed,
$128.04. Receipts from the various associa-
tions for emigrating a poor child from Eng-
land, $50; $40.50 has been sent for the child
		A. S. ROSENBAUM, President.
		GENIE S. PEIRCE, Cor. Sec'y.
	P. S. We have had a three days' Fair of
the P. A. of this Stake; will send particulars
in a few days.


S. L. STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	Minutes of the Semi-Annual Conference of
the Y. L. M. I. A., held in the Assembly Hall,
S. L. City, Sept. 24, 1881, Pres't. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"Come, come; ye Saints." Prayer by Pres't.
E. S. Taylor. Singing, "Come all ye sons of
Zion." Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted. Reports from several branch
associations were also read.
	Pres't. Freeze said: I am thankful and
pleased to hear the reports that had been sent
in; I feel encouraged. I am sorry to see so
few of the young ladies present, but am thank-
ful for the presence of the older sisters. I
wish every ward had been represented. After
this we will require only half yearly reports.
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord is here. I
have sought earnestly to the Lord for some-
thing by which we might awaken the negli-
gent. Most of the young feel that these asso-
ciations are good, but do not feel obliged to
attend. We should feel it an obligation to
go, to learn, to assist and lend an influence.
Sister Rogers told the children this morning
that we are blessed in blessing others. To
know that we are approved by our Father in
heaven is a blessing. Let us not delay because
some one else can do better; we cannot all
stand at the top, we begin at the foot. We
would feel better to have more testimony meet-
ings; testimony bearing brings a joy beyond
that afforded by writing, or other efforts. I
know these meetings are a grand school; I have
received great blessings from the experience I
have obtained in them. I often say that Moses
became great because he sought God in the
days of his youth. Seek to God, if you lack
wisdom, He will not upbraid you; you may
tell Him your weakness without shame. Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith feels very anxious to
see an interest awakened among these young
people; she suggested that the officers hold a


monthly meeting to discuss and decide what to
do. The place of meeting will be announced
through the press. Let us not turn backward.
There are many here we would like to listen
to. That we may be blessed is my desire.  
	Coun. Louie Felt. My sisters, I feel my
weakness in standing before you. I wonder
how it is we need to be urged so. I know
Pres't. Freeze does all in her power, but she
cannot do it all. It is our imperative duty to
inquire if we are doing all we can. Every
young lady has an influence, and should use it
for good. How happy we are in our meetings
together, and how soon we become careless. I
do not wish to take up your time. I wish an
interest in your faith and prayers, and that God
may help us is my prayer.
	Pres't E. S. Taylor said: It seems strange to
me that we are not more earnest in the work
in which we are engaged. Whether officer or
member, each has an immortal soul, for which
salvation is the reward, if we will strive to
gain it; we cannot depend on parents friends,
or others, we must accomplish it for ourselves.
The mother can do more than the officer can,
if she will inspire a desire in her children to
learn the ways of the Lord. If a daughter is
busy at home, the mother will, by her over-
sight and advice, see that it is properly done;
how much more important than common du-
ties is attention to spiritual matters. Each
sister should exert an influence also with her
husband. Convert him to the idea that God
has given you, too, a mission, side by side with
him. That God may give us confidence, that
we may improve the talents He has given us,
and bring also usury, is my prayer.
	Mrs. E. Howard: I see many mothers and
grand-mothers here. Cannot they use an influ-
ence with the girls? I think I see an influence
growing among us, the spirit of which is pride
and worldliness, and a little arrogance. In our
ward we had an association, but I know that
through frivolity and fear of ridicule, or bash-
fulness, the meetings have died out. We never
can accomplish anything in this way. I have
found good in all the meetings I have attended.
I am not in favor of adjourning the meetings.
The evening is a time all might spare a few
hours. Let them speak on domestic subjects,
or on any good topics. These meetings are for
everything that is good. I heard a young lady
say she had not been specially instructed in re-
gard to personal neatness. Neatness and
cleanliness are conducive to good health. Can
we not speak of the ill effects of tight lacing,
high-heeled shoes, etc.? Where is the happi-
ness of a companion who is suffering continu-
ally with wrecked health? These complaints
are good news to the evil one, who takes ad-
vantage to work upon the mind. Let us rest
when we need it. May the Lord bless you
who are here to-day, and don't adjourn your
meetings; discourage the proposition. You
can lay aside your work for beaux—and have
a care, girls, who you keep company with.
	Related an incident of rude familiarity she
witnessed and advised girls concerning the
course they should take to preserve their wo-
manly dignity. Urged the observance of the
Word of Wisdom.
	Pres't Freeze said: I see many who could
give us good advice, but our time is short.
Let me urge you to avoid extravagance and
cultivate industry.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Sang, "The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
		Stake Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


[Column 1]
LIGHT READING.

	The intention was to prove that novel-read-
ing is a study of art; in the last I mentioned

[Column 2]
that it could be proven, and now I shall en-
deavor to bring forward the necessary argu-
ments. If it can be proven that novel writing
is an art then the admission that the intel-
ligent and observant reading of a novel is a
study of art cannot be avoided. When the sculp-
tor fashions a form or a group of forms from
the amorphous marble, he does it for the pur-
pose of expressing some idea, which, whether
it is inspired or is the result of cool and
collected reflection, has incited him to his
exalted labor. His art is judged by the idea
and by the genius displayed in forcing the
stubborn marble to express that idea. The
thought is the inspiration, and if the execution
is in keeping with the idea, it becomes a work
of art. It looks simple enough. A student of
sculpture is not necessarily one who devotes his
time to sculpturing, but is one who thinks
deeply of it, and whose researches and examina-
tions give weight to his opinions on sculp-
ture. The same is true of the painter. He
gives expression to an idea and as the thought
and execution are admirable, or otherwise, he
is held to be more or less of an artist. What
is true in these respects is true in music, is true
in every branch of art; and he who seeks to
acquire information on any or all of these
branches, whether he puts that information into
practical use or not, is a student of art. Web-
ster may not give this definition, but it so near
the general acceptance of the word that it
would be useless to discuss the matter.
	The assumption is that the novel writer has
an idea; he wishes to give it expression, and
to do this he writes a book. As the idea and
its realization in the work are excellent or poor,
the writer is judged to be a praiseworthy or un-
worthy author. Is not the comparison a rea-
sonable one? If it is true that there are ten
good novel writers to one good sculptor, or ar-
tist, or musician, it does not make the work of
the novel writer less difficult, less arduous, than
that of the others mentioned; nor does it call
into play less intellect, or require less exper-
ience, or less inspiration. In many respects, if
not in a vast majority, the labor of the novelist
is incomparably more difficult than that of any
others; and for two reasons: the duty in itself
is more arduous, and his power with the people
far greater for evil, is a thousand times more
potent.
	The novelist is a creator. He makes his own
worlds, peoples them with beings of his own cre-
ation; they appear as he desires; they speak,
move, think, and act as he directs, and at his
bidding quit forever the scenes in which they
have played a part, more or less important, as
he may have designed.
	Every play written by Shakespeare consti-
tutes a world in itself; and every novel, if it is
entitled to the appellation, is a world in itself. 
An inspiration rests upon the author, in his
minds eye a world appears before him, and his
glowing imagination pictures a people inhabit-
ing it who live, who do good and bad acts, and
who are actuated by good and bad motives.
He sees what incites a man to action, how, in
the pursuits of the several ends, which are de-
sired by the several inhabitants men come in
contact, and how they harmonize; he beholds
the events that lead some men to wealth and
power, and sees how a train of circumstances
will change a man of originally good motives
to a being desirious of securing certain results
even if they must be proven by unjust means.
The heart is open to his gaze, its desires and as-
pirations are exposed, and when the thoughts of
the active mind reveal themselves the source of
the tears and joys of his world cease to be mys-
teries and its book of life is opened to his vision.
In writing the novel he strives to express these
ideas that others may see them as he does. If
his thoughts are consistent and based on rea-
son, and if the execution be good he is a good
novelist. Every being in the world of the

[Column 3]
author is one of a class of people which forms
the whole. Is it not a sublime art to create
such a work? And is it not a study of art to
read the products of such a mind. By means
of novels many wide-spread abuses have been
corrected in nations. The abolition of the
debtors prison in England is alleged to be due
more to the writings of Dickens in "Little Dor-
ritt," and other of his works than to any other,
for the reason that he brought the evil so
vividly and so forcibly before all that it had to
be corrected. Charles Read has performed like
services by means of the oft despised novel; and
a host of other instances might be cited.
	The gift of the novelist—in the exalted sense
of the word—is the gift of true insperation, and
in the hands of a sound man, it is a form for
good which should not be ignored. There is
enlightenment in the good novel; pleasure and
profit and food for thought for the laborer and
pleasure and profit and food for reflection for
the philosopher and the scientist. It teaches
the desires that move us in life, portrays more
clearly the advantage and the blessing of noble
aspirations and thoughts; and paints the evils
that follow a yielding to vicious and unholy
acts; leads to better walks in life, makes the
world more sympathetic, inculcates benevol-
ence; it is a work of grand art. Its persuit is a
study of art. There are more virtues in a novel-
reading than are dreamt of by the average
philosopher.
						SIMPLE SIMON.


GARFIELD'S FATALISM.

	Those who are most familiar with General
Garfield say that for many years he cherished
the belief that he would not live to be older
than his father was and that he would die in
some sudden and violent manner. His friends,
with all their persuasions, were not able to
make him dismiss this thought. He would
say in answer to their claims that such a belief
was foolish: It seems to me as foolish as it
does to you. I do not know why it haunts me.
Indeed, it is a thing that is wholly involuntary
on my part, and when I try the hardest not to
think of it it haunts me most. It comes to
me sometimes in the night, when all is quiet.
I think of my father, and how he died in the
strength of his manhood, and left my mother
to care for a large family of children, and how
I have always been without his assistance and
advice, and then I feel it so strong upon me,
that the vision is in the form of a warning that
I cannot treat lightly.
	For many years he believed that he should
some time fall between cars or be killed in
some way while traveling. When he reached
the age of his father at death and passed that
point safely he seemed to forget the idea that
had given him so much trouble. He is now
forty-nine, nearly five years older than his fa-
ther when he died. It is said by those who
know the general best that he was ever to a
greater or less degree a believer in fatalism.
He was a man who invariably had the strong-
est impressions, and it is believed that it was
an impression that prevailed with him for
many years that he would be President some
time. He never sought the office, and never
intended to do so.—Ex.


NRS. GARFIELD AND OTHER WOMAN.

	The very cordial and general recognition of
the brave, quiet way in which Mrs. Garfield
has sustained her trying position, has called
out this sensible and just comment from the
Boston Post.
	But we hope the mistake will not be made
of placing Mrs. Garfield in an isolated niche
among American women and American wives.
She is no distinguished exception endowed with


the stern courage of Roman matrons beyond
other women, but a fine representative of her
sex and class. In the sympathy that is felt for
her and the admiration of her domestic virtues
and wifely devotion, let us learn to appreciate
more truly the women that are nearer to us
than the President's wife."
	The Post is right. In a majority of homes
in the United States are wives discharging
their daily duty as faithfully as Mrs. Garfield
does hers. They do this, too, without the sym-
pathy or praise of the people. Patiently they
toil on, often in poverty, and under difficulties
which they would never surmount but for the
affection they feel for those for whose sake they
stand so bravely in their lot.
	The advice of the Post is good also, viz.: 
"Learn to appreciate more truly the women
who are nearer to us than the President's wife."
Now will not the Post aid the application of its
good counsel by supporting for women their
claim to the full and equal rights which are
guaranteed to all decent men, viz., the right to
the ballot? No appreciation can be so valua-
ble as this, and no other is so much needed.
	Woman's Journal.	L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

UTAH TERRITORIAL FAIR;

	On Monday October 3d, at 10 o'clock the
Fair formally opened and Hon. George Q.
Cannon delivered an appropriate address. He
spoke upon the importance of proper represen-
tation such as was there represented to encour-
age the growth of home ability and manufac-
ture, and promote industry which lay at the
foundation of success in life. The people had
been urged from the beginning to exert them-
selves to make within the Territory all those
things which their necessities required for
home consumption, as well as articles for ex-
portation. The speaker felt pleased at the in-
terest now manifest upon various matters per-
taining to the development of the resources of
the country and thought all who sought to
create labor for the people should be stimulated
by the result which had already been reached
to make still greater efforts in the future.
Pres. John Taylor made a few brief remorks
referred to the benefits of united or cooperative
effort in all the branches of manufacture.
	The Fair contained articles of almost all
kinds that can be made or produced within
<yithb1teriitoxyj vegetables="" and.fruits="" ofan="" ex-'="" vcellehtquality;="" good="" butter="" and="" cheete.j.idthe="" kjdisplay,="" of="" furniture="" svai?quite="" elaborate="" dndj="" -="" 4="" showed'="" well="" fbrthis="" branch="" ofindustry.="" soap,="" fattier,bniahes="" 'and="" -mirble="" i="" work,="" were="" very="" f%itdb’loy="" 'represented.="" woolen="" dressjgoods,="" 3'and="" heavy="" ‘cloth="" all="" kinds,="" blankets="" danbels'="" i'yafirdf="" oil="" colors'="" arid="" varieties="" making="" this="" dis-="" '"may="" fink="" s="" m'="" iru="" -ril="" ladies'department="" was="" greatly="" admired'="" v="" °4by-alli-quilts,-and="" rugs="" in.="" the:="" varieties,="" a="" patterns,-="" embroidered="" cushions;="" in="" fact="" fancy1="" wool;="" work-="" andimany.="" sorts;="" &']’="" s'-bfneedle'vorki'knitting,'crochet,<etm-v.="" ;il="" fnw="" “the;="" homemade="" bilk="" .perhaps="" more="" mt-="" 0ri.c'ttye'i'="" than="" anything="" '="" else-1="" tostrangers="" '"espebiairyladies="" vyho="" profus&.in="" their="" .ex-:="" 1="passions of" admiration="" at="" the.="" energy="" and;="" .in-;="" '!="" dustry="" those="" ladies="" who-had="" been="" persevering="" enough="" to="" abcomplwh--so-much="" by="" own="" vi="" daborfrofiitbeixery="" &anisa-hifeorm'="" egg3-="" one="" show="" case="" contained="" reeled="" silk="" lo="" manu&cturdd'="" by,="" hapdonepound="" pfnwhich="" bhwaarinade'by-imiss="" nellie="" type.pffhis="" ity="" ;="" hdiagedas,="" ,thejreel="" uscd.by="" her="" waftplso="" on="" ,ex-="" odjhibitibri="" land..="" was.ihagtily,="" (wnstrucfed="" ..from="" pieces="" broken="" chair="" thqspokpf="" '"="" :'&r--wheel.,="" miss.nerie’sjgilk="" took="" the="" pmgand="" sd="" oifcdid="" reel-="" appng="" somq="" thrimtbptable="" 5="" uuifrl-qt="" dtrwa3,a.handsomp.nettd,jshawl="" made="" by.="" mrs.="" b1="" ..="" bergman="" from="" sillc="" raised="" reeled’by'thblate="" 'j="" irs.="" ann="" b.="" dunyon.="" it="" elegant="" r"rijjiii.'ii;="" 'jti="" ;11.="" vjinn="" for="" shoulders-="" oflanydadyidn)="" <laadj="" 'thererwasva="" child’s="" hood="" fall‘of="" 'silk,'ia="" verysexr="" quisite="" affair,-="" c;="" ievari's="" nephii="" haridsomd;="" rietted="" ,="" fscii‘f'made="" it.="" warehairi'="" manti-j;="" 'uthfere1="" worerspecimeris-bf="" 'silk:="" lace="" mahufubtrircd="" a;="" ‘variety="" .patterns="" by1="" .the="" famous="" lacd="" maker="" lizzje-="" urseri-="bacb" oomptori="" of;-morgan.'="" there="" many="" '‘other="" specifneris(arid="" articles="" ofhome-ipade="" silk,="" collars,="" ri6cktiesjrprirses,-etoi="" alsd="" reihibitl6rifiwakiridstifdressoods,="" 70="" 'yards,of-="" home'sptiri.="" which="" was;="" date="" mts.="" josepbifid="" schottler,="" brie'="" plain="" 'bther="" brocade.="" first?silk-="" dross="" goods="" ever="" manii-="" factured="" iri="" utah="" -was-="" bymrs.-="" eanririda="" rcbirisori="" fatmingtoriy="" who:raised="" the’="" co-="" coons="" from1="" worm!'oggs,="" reeledi="" thp.'silk="" afld="" did="" workherselfl'i-!mil="" “'="" article-ftfr="" sale-manufactured'efroimthe="" home-spun="" cari="" be="" -'obtairied'at'="" mrs="" betsy="" long’s="" faricy:storc="" cri'first="" south="" street="" near="" theatre.-="" manyhf="" :exhibi-="" 'tion="" manufactured="" cocoons="" raisedtby="" mesdames="" dunyon-,’'susan'="" string-="" ain="" mary="" ann'="" rockwpod,-'--at;="" :="" forest="" farm'cocoonery.="" ''="">the Territory, vegetables and fruits of an ex-
cellent quality, good butter and cheese. The
display of furniture was quite elaborate and
showed well for this branch of industry. Soap,
leather, brushes and marble work were very
creditabley represented. Woolen dress goods,
and heavy cloth of all kinds, blankets flannels
yarn of all colors and varieties making this dis-
play very fine.
	The ladies department was greatly admired
by all, quilts, and rugs in all the varieties of
patterns, embroidered cushions and in fact
fancy wool work of all kinds, and many sorts
of needle work, knitting, crochet, etc.
	The homemade silk was perhaps more at-
tractive than anything else to strangers
especially ladies who were profuse in their ex-
pressions of admiration at the energy and in-
dustry of those ladies who had been persevering
enough to accomplish so much by their own
labor from the very foundation—the silk worm
eggs. One show case contained reeled silk
manufactured by hand, one pound of which
was made by Miss Nellie Pyper of this city
aged 13, the reel used by her was also on ex-
hibition and was hastily constructed from
pieces of a broken chair and the spoke of a
wheel. Miss Nellie's silk took the prize and so
did the reel. Among some of the most notable
articles manufactured from the home spun silk
was a handsome netted shawl made by Mrs. S.
Bergman from silk raised and reeled by the late
Mrs. Ann B. Dunyon. It was elegant enough

[Column 2]

for the shoulders of any lady in the land.
There was a child's hood all of silk, a very ex-
quisite affair, made by Mrs. O. Evans of Nephi.
A handsome netted scarf made by Mrs. R.
Wareham of Manti. There were specimens of
silk lace manufactured in a variety of patterns
by the famous lace maker Mrs. Lizzie Ursen-
bach Compton of Morgan. There were many
other specimens and articles of home-made silk,
collars, neckties, purses, etc. There were also on
exhibition two kinds of dress goods, 70 yards, of
home spun silk which was reeled by the late
Mrs. Josephine Schettler, one plain the other
brocade. The first silk dress goods ever manu-
factured in Utah was made by Mrs. Laurinda
Robinson of Farmington, who raised the co-
coons from silk worm eggs, and reeled the silk
and did all the work herself.
	The articles for sale manufactured from the
home-spun silk can be obtained at Mrs Betsy
Long's Fancy Store on First South Street near
the Theatre. Many of the articles on exhibi-
tion were manufactured from cocoons raised by
Mesdames Ann B. Dunyon, Susan A. String-
am and Mary Ann Rockwood, at the Forest
Farm Cocoonery.
	The Primary Department in the Fair at-
tracted considerable attention because all the
articles were the work of the "little people."
Perhaps the most wonderful was the picture of
a child by a girl Clara Bradford 9 years old.
A copy of a photograph made by the child her-
self and painted very artistically. That child
is certainly a genius and ought to have an op-
portunity for art cultivation. A handsome
breakfast shawl knitted by Georgina Toone, 12
years old, took the prize, and there were several
other articles very ingeniously made; the indus-
try of the little folks is very commendable.
Handsome wax flowers made by Louie Sloan,
and many other fancy articles by little girls.
Some excellent cocoons were on exhibition
raised by a small boy, which were of superior
quality, and another lot raised by a girl 13
years old which took the prize.
	The picture gallery or art department re-
cieved a good share of attention and elicited
considerable admiration. Many of the paint-
ings by home artists were very fine, especially
scenes from nature. The Mormon Battalion
was seemingly true to life, and quite touching
to those who knew its history. The painting
of the Savior and the woman in sorrow was a
beautiful illustration of the tenderness of the
divine Master and the depths of love for hu-
manity which abounded in his nature. It was a
grand picture and a glorious subject. "He
wipeth the tear from every eye." None but a
true artist could design it.
	Master Samuel Barratt's pictures show tal-
ent of no ordinary character in one so young
and he may justly be proud of them.
	Miss Jennings' paintings were very fine, one
or two real gems.
	Some specimens of crayon drawings were ex-
cellent and displayed real talent. There were
many other choice specimens of work in this
department which were really meritorious.
	There are many very beautiful and roman-
tic places in Utah that form excellent material
for subjects for the artist to delineate upon canvas.


[Column 1]
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
NOTICE.
HAVING PROCURED A MANNIKIN CHART SPE-
cimens, etc., I am now prepared to give instructions
in thr art of Obstetrics and other branches connected there-
with. My class will open Nov. 1st, 1881. Those wishing to
join this class will please communicate with me at once, it
being necessary to send east for books. Terms: Tuition, 60
Lessons, $30; books, three in number, $12. Address,
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D., Salt Lake City,
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE in Contributor building first door
north of Z. C. M. I.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.

A LARGE STOCK.
	Of Home Made trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSRY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly reponded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes. Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.﻿

