VOL. 10			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1882.		No. 21


﻿AN APRIL IDYL.

	BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Since Adam and Eve first wended their way,
From beautiful Eden, so "they say,"
Strange things will happen on an April day,
All sorts of pranks she is sure to play.
Dame nature is busy, stirring about,
Bringing glad beauty from dark things out,
And cleaning her house from ceiling to floor
Spreading new carpets from shore to shore;

In curious corners and cosy nooks,
She plants her statues, places her books;
Vast troops of servants; she calls to their work,
None can escape her, none dare shirk,
Winter's traces she is [-]ain to repair,
Weaving new garments for those left baare;
How charming she looks in her tucked-up sleeves,
Actively turning over the leaves.

Replacing the old ones so brown and s[-]re,
With fresh and beautiful, shining clear.
And out of the dark brown withering sod,
With a touch of her divining rod,
She brings forth gay colors, and rich perfumes,
Art never dreamed of, with all her looms;
And then she has orchestra, placed around,
There's scarcely a grove, but they are found,

Melodious singing!  both sweet and clear,
Room too fro all, who will go and hear;
Just the grandest concerts!  free as the air,
And no dress circles, or charges there!
Sumptuous banquets both rich and rare,
Her ready hand-maidens oft prepare,
There's no time for them to loiter in bed,
With hosts of open mouths to be fed!

Nightly fountains playing all over the world
Sunbeams to scatter, banners unfurl,
Vast chambers to drape with the glorious blue!
Staunch temperance movement, through and through,
There's no end of flocks, swarms, droves and herds,
April calls forth with merely a word,
Bashful maiden, March let out of school,
None dare call her but one day, a fool!
Strange pranks she plays on that day I am told,
Many are bought, but more have been sold.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
But once on a time, while making a raid,
'Twixt tears and smiles an off'ring she laid;
Unclothed and nameless, mysterious elf,
Winning capricious as April herself,
Sweet love cared for the waif, cherished and blessed,
Nourished the gift with tender caress;
And brought out its name, from radiant light,
Clear as the morning star sparklingly bright,
Since then in making her annual round,
Whether with cmiles, or in cold chilly frowns,
Here, she is greeted, and feted the same,
As tho' fool, were ne'er attached to her name.


WATCH AND PRAY.

	"He that thinketh he standeth let him take heed
lest he fall." 
	The above Scriptural quotation is as applica-
ble to us in this day as it was to those who
lived in the day when it was spoken.  It was
given as a warning to the Saints, that they
might realize how liable humanity is to fall
from grace, and the necessity of calling upon 
God in mighty prayer, and fasting if need be, 
to preserve them in that straight and narrow
path which leads to life everlasting, for indeed
"straight is the gate and narrow is the way
that leadeth to the lives, and few there be that
find it; because wide is the gate and broad is
the road that leadeth to destruction, and many
there be who go in thereat."  The choice is
before us, my sisters; which road will we
choose?  
	I say, we who assemble together to worship
God are determined to walk the narrow way;
but we cannot do this without a struggle. We
must battle with the tempter, and our spirits
must wage a warfare with the evils of the flesh, 
until we have gained the mastery over all the
sins which flesh is heir to, which are many.
And we can never feel secure unless we know
we are environed round about, and also within, 
by the Spirit of God; for in that alone is saftey. 
We are apt to become careless, forget ourselves,
and say or do something that will grieve the
Holy Spirit from us; then we are left to our-
selves, subject to the buffetings of Satan--and
he does buffet us severely sometimes.  The
Lord suffers him to do this, so that we may
know how to appreciate His sweet, peaceful
Spirit when we are permitted once more to
enjoy it.
	But we must be very humble and prayerful
in order to secure that Spirit, for it is one of
the blessings that does not descend, like rain, 
on the just and unjust.  It is only those who
have truly repented of all their sins, and are
striving diligently to purify themselves from
all evil, who are entitled to that peace which
can only be enjoyed through a perfect submis-
sion of their will to the will of God.  We can
put no confidence in our own strength or abil-
ity to resist evil and temptation, for without
Divine aid we are like a reed in the wind, 
bending and quivering before ever blast of
the tempest; are sometimes in great danger of
being broken and shattered to pieces.  But oh, 
how strong are we when keeping the command-
ments of God.  In His strength, we can bid
defiance to the armies of Satan, for we then
are impervious to every shaft that may be sent
by the enemy of righteousness; they will re-
bound from us, leaving us pure and unscathed,
and with greater power to resist again.  But
we must be wary and continually on the watch-
tower, spying out all the movements of the
enemy; for if we lay off our armor and go to
sleep, even for a moment, he may and probably
will attack us in an unexpected quarter, which
we, perchance, thought was well fortified; then
we will be compelled to rally all our strongest
forces, fight and struggle, calling upon God--
who might not be so swift to hear as He would
were we blameless--for help to rout the ene-
my when if we had kept a faithful guard
round about, all that sorrow and perplexity
might have been spared us, and that energy
have been reserved for a better, nobler pur-
pose.  
	We should be warned by the example of the
many mighty ones who have fallen, after hav-
ing labored for years in the service of God. 
There have been many instances in our own
day, as well as anciently.  Men who have had
the heavens opened to them, beheld the heav-
enly beings and the glory awaiting the righ-
teous, they have listened to the whisperings of
the adversary, and have been overcome by his
power.  The mighty prophet, David, a man
after God's own heart, who walked blameless
before Him for many years, at last yielded to 
the tempter, and committed two of the great-
est crimes known to humanity, for which he
now lies in hell, and cannot be delivered until
the justice of God is satisfied, even until he has
paid the uttermost farthing.  He must have
neglected to call upon his Father in heaven, 
and became careless pertaining to righteous-
ness, or Satan never could have gained such
power over him.  Man cannot fall from a state
of purity and holiness to a state of corruption
and wickedness in an hour, nor a day; the des-
cent must be  gradual, as was the ascent. Still
we know that when once begun the descent is
very rapid, adn it takes but a short time to
span the distance between happiness and
misery. 
	"Angels have fallen!"  Be this thy mon-
itor, to check the first faint glow of confidence
in human wisdom and in human strength.
	O my sisters, when we consider these things
should we not tremble and draw nearer to God, 
pleading with all the strength of our beings
that He will preserve us by his mighty power, 
from taking the first false step.  But if, per-
chance, we should; in an unguarded moment, 
depart from serving Him fully, let us turn
from our error, and strive with humility, with
fasting and prayer, to be re-established once
more in his favor; for He is merciful, and will
listen to our first repentant cry.  But oh, let
us be careful and not trespass too far upon his
mercy, lest his Spirit ahould become so injured
that it will cease to strive with us, when awful
indeed would be our state.  That fate will
never be ours, if we attend faithfully to our
prayers and meetings; in them is perfect saftey. 
Satan well knows this, hence the reason he so
often tempts us to neglect these duties.  We
can always be sure by what spirit we are
prompted, for all that enticeth to do good is of
God, so says the Prophet Alma, in the Book of
Mormon.  The Good Spirit will ever prompt
us to be prayerful, to attend all our meetings, 
where we can receive strength and encourage-
ment to live the lives of Saints, to prepare
ourselves to meet the great events which are
near at our doors, and at last be worthy of a 
crown among the good and noble of all ages. 
							MARY A. F. 
	Y. L. M. I. A. 11th Ward.


BISHOP'S BIRTHDAY
	On Thursday evening March the 9th,a social
pic-nic party convened in the Social Hall un-
der the auspices of the Relief Society of this
place, Sage Jones President, to commerate
the fiftieth birthday of our Bishop, Christopher
J. Arthur. At about 5 o’clock prayer was
offered by our Patriarch Henry Lunt, and a
sumptuous repast was partaken off; after which
the time was pleasantly spent in dancing inter-
spersed with sentimental songs.
	President E. W. Lunt in behalf of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society with a few appropri-
ate remarks, presented the Bishop with a
beautiful Album, also read a poem composed
for the occasion by Elder C. Cox. The Bishop
responded by a short speech expressive of his
gratitude for the good feeling manifested to-
ward him, after which our Ex-Bishop H.
Lunt, also made some very interesting remarks. 
Dancing was resumed till eleven o’clock.
	Ever praying for the success and prosperity
of the EXPONENT.
					ELLEN W. LUNT.
	Cedar City, Iron Co. Utah.


SPECIAL Committee of the Legislatures in
several of she States have given opportunities
to the friends of Woman Suffrage, to speak in
behalf of that subject.


WOMAN'S	EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
CONTINUED.

	The anxiety expressed in my parents' letters
concerning their children's going to school,
brings up a subject much harped upon by out-
siders, who have always declared that "Mor-
mons" were opposed to education. This of
course has no foundation, except in their own
disordered brain, which is fed by the distorted
tales of people who have no higher ambition
than to invent and magnify falsehoods against
the latter-day Saints. Thousands can testify
that wherever our lot has been cast, almost the
first building put up has been the school house.
In the little town of Far West the Saints had
a large and commodious one, far superior to
the ones built by the Gentiles in my native
town, and in Kirtland, Ohio, where I was
taught my earliest lessons. The first thing my
parents thought of wherever we stopped was to
send us to school. While at Winter Quarters 
in the Omaha nation, we had one taught be
Sister Emmeline Whitney, who is now Emme-
line Wells, editor of the EXPONENT.  *     *
	During my school days we were moving
about from place to place, and being subjectd
to cinstant interruptions, it made out early
studies less salutary. It was no easy matter
for a child to all at once settle down to dry
books; and schools and books were not then
what they are now, for little children had to
study out of the same that the elder ones did;
and when we consider the thousand and one
adverse circumstances with which we as a peo-
ple have had to contend for so many years to
be able to retain even an existence upon the
earth, we feel satisfied that we are deserving of
the praise and eulogies of our nation, which
 ant other community would have received; but
instead of our just dues;we have been subjected
to  the impositions of a set of lawless land-
sharks, who are too lazy to work, and therefore
wish to rob the "Mormons," although they
know them to be an honest and industrious
people out of their hard earnings, and the
meanness to which they have stooped to accom-
plish this would make even Satan blush.
	If the outside world wished to inform them-
selves of the truth they could do so, if they
would put aside their prejudice when they visit
our beautiful cities and homes, they could
learn the truth concerning us and our faith and
practices; and if they were honest they would
never again accuse us of being a low, ignorant
or benighted people.
	If the Mormon emigration had consisted of
the wretchedly deformed and idiotic beings
which they have been represented, there must
be a charm, or something very peculiar in our
religion and organizations to have accomplished
so great and wonderful a transfiguration; for
we have seen nothing to warrant such stuff.
But among those who are gathered here are
some of the brightest and most skilled mechan-
ics and workmen-- if they were not, how could
we have managed to have these fine houses
built and such beautiful farms and cities in
these mountains, independent of our enlight-
ened Christian neighbors?
	The following is true and quite apropos to
the subject:
	"Some suppose that every learned man is an
educated man; no such thing; that man is
educated who knows himself, and takes accu-
rate common-sense views of men and things
around him. Some very learned men are the
greatest fools in the world; the reason is-- they
are not educated men. Learning is only the
means, not the end; its value consists in giving
the means of acquiring that, the use of which,
properly managed, gives tone or direction to
the mind.”
 If not among the most wealthy and learned
of the earth, we have ar least our share of in-
tellect and talents, of which the world can not
rob us; and the wonderful experience of this
people has served to develop and bring them
into use. We all know that the most unprom-
ising have often, by patient study and perse-
verance, become the brightest; and we also
know that what has been accomplished in these
mountains no other people, with all their
boasted wisdom and learning, ever dreamed of
doing until the "Mormons" had shown them how.
Our enemies are well aware of these facts, and
the-only way of hiding them from the world is
to continue throwing dust in theireyes.
To be continued.


QUESTIONS ANSWERED. 
As questions have been asked for us to an- 
swer with all plainness and truthfulness, I for
one, like Paul, take pleasure in answering to
the truth. We are not of the world; if we
were the world would love us; but we are hated
for the Gospel’s sake. Now, we believe in rev-
elation, which the world deny. God has said
unto us He will restore all things as at the be-
ginning. He gave commandment then to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth; He has said in
this age, “Raise up unto me a righteous seed;
but first, enter into my covenant, which is the
covenant of marriage”—which ceremony only
can be performed by His servants holding the
Melchizedek Priesthood, which was taken from
the earth when those who held it were slain.
They held the keys to administer in sacred
things. John the Revelator, being banished
on the Isle of Patmos, saw what would take
place in our day, when the Everlasting Gospel
would be preached to every nation, tongue, and
people, “Saying, give glory to God, for the
hour of his judgment has come.”
Now, it behooves all people to repent of
their sins, and receive the Gospel and be saved,
for the Scripture says, “He that believeth and
is baptized shall be saved; he that believeth
not shall be damned.” (St, Mark, xv, 16.)
" Now, this same John has come and commit-
ted this Priesthood to men on the earth, to ad-
minister again in sacred ordinances. The
angel came with the Everlasting Gospel, hav-
ing all the gifts and blessing accruing there-
unto. I can bear witness to these things; I
have heard the gift of tongues, the interpreta-
tion given, have seen the sick restored to health
by the gift of healing, the evil spirit cast out
by prayer and the gift of faith, and I do know
for myself that these things are true, for they
have been shown to me by the Holy Spirit.
We are told to read the Scriptures, and learn
these things for ourselves. I had a testimony
before I ever heard a Latter-day Saint preach
that the same Gospel that the Apostles taught
would be restored to the earth again. I found
that I was quite familiar with Bible doctrine,
and by the power of the priesthood I have
been enabled to understand more fully. I
was no stranger to that which had been taught
me in the spirit world before I took this mortal
body. Now I expect to obtain an immortal one,
if I am faithful to the end.
My sisters, we who have entered into this
holy order of marriage see eye to eye as I do, 
for the Lord says, “Except ye are one ye are
not mine.” What I have written my sisters
in the faith, believe as I do. Therefore, what
I have set forth is the mind of all. And in
no principle of the Gospel do we differ, one
person in the Church can represent the prin-
ciples of the whole body. With the world this
is called one-man power, but with us we call it
unity of faith. To us the angel has brought
glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
people Heavenly Father, let us be in posses-
sion of this thy heavenly message, which is the
greatest boon to mortals! It giveth peace  of


mind that the world knoweth not of. Man
can only take liberty of conscience, our rights
as fellow citizens; we are still the citizens of
God’s Kingdom, and our thoughts are as free
as the morning sun that shines in its glory.
	Mary Ann M. Pratt. 
March 16,1882.


CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA CITY, MARICOPA CO. ARIZONA,
					March 16th, 1882.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We are having delightful weather here at
present although the past winter has been very
cold for this climate. Father has just finished
a nice new house in which he gave a birthday
dinner. He was 60 years of age the 22nd, of
Feb. There were eleven children and eleven
grandchildren present, beside invited guests at
dinner. In the evening quite an assemblage of
friends came in and singing and dancing were
indulged in till the “wee sma hours” when
lunch was served, and all retired after wishing
the host many happy returned the day. We
certainly have cause for gratitude to the kind
Father of us all, for the blessing of health
which attend us as a family; eighteen out of
twenty children are living, and nineteen of
twenty grandchildren all hearty and healthy,
not a single invalid or cripple in the family.
All here except Ashbel (who is in Chicago
studying medicine) and Ella and Emma the
twins; the latter and family write if success
crowns their efforts they will be with us next
fall. The Relief Society of Mesa held their
conference on the eleventh of this month.
					FRANCELLE P. ROBSON


HOW TO INTRODUCE PEOPLE.

	"I do dislike to introduce people to each
other," said Eva to me one day last week.
	"Why, pray?" I asked. "It seems to me a
very simple thing."
	"Well, when I have it to do, I stammer and
blush, and feel so awkward, I never know who
should be mentioned first, and I wish myself
out of the room."
	"I think I can make it plain to you," I said.
"You invite Mabel Tompkins to spend an
afternoon with you. She has never been at
your home before, and your mother has never
met her. When you enter the sitting-room, all
you have to do is to say, 'Mother, this is my
friend Mabel; Mabel, my mother.' If you
wish to be more elaborate, you may say to your
Aunt Lucy, "Aunt Lucy, permit me to present
Miss Mabel Tompkins; Miss Tompkins, Mrs.
Templeton.' But while you introduce Mabel
to your father, or the minister, or an elderly
gentleman, naming the most distinguished per-
sonage first, you present your brother, his
chum and your cousin Fred to the lady, nam-
ing her first. Fix it in your mind that among
persons of equal station the younger are intro-
duced to the older, and that inferiors in age,
position, or influence are presented to superiors.
Be very cordial when, in your own house, you
are introduced to a guest, and offer your hand.
If away from home, a bow is commonly suffi-
cient recognition. In performing an introduc-
tion, speak both names with perfect distinct-
ness."—Harper's Young People.


IN New Jersey as in Kansas fathers and mo-
thers have equal rights to the children.

	A MEMORIAL meeting of the anniversary of
the birthday of Lucritia Mott, was observed by
the Peace Union in Germantown, Penn. If
any one deserves remembrance it is the sweet
Quaker lady who so nobly worked for many
years for woman's advancement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LINES ON A FRIEND.

There was a day in olden time, a day to me of rest;
There was a day I’ll bring to mind, that day to me was
	blest.
I saw an angel here below, an angel from the skies;
I saw an angel lovely too, that came from paradise.
No tongue can tell the ecstasy, no pen can paint the joy,
That filled her soul with pure delight, delight without
	alloy;
The form was sculptured by the hand of the Omnipotent
The spirit was his likeness too. Yet to the Earth was
	sent.
I saw this personage in love, with every lovely thing,
I saw this personage enjoy the early flowers of spring
I heard with rapture, when she sang, I saw her kneel and
	pray,
I saw her moving through the earth, her spirit led the
	way.
I saw her by the bed of death, she wept with those who
	wept,
I saw her by the little heath, where friends and kindred
	slept;
I saw her in the house of God, I watched her when she
	prayed,
I've joined in prayer, while with her there, and to her I
	have said:
Why hast thou left thy blest abode, to dwell with man
	below?
Her quick reply to me was this, to feel for others woe.
Couldst thou not feel for others woe within that blest
	abode?
No; sorrow could not enter there, in presence of our God,
Dost thou feel sorrow then like me, thou angel from the
	skies?
O yes! for I am mortal too, and this will make me wise.
In heaven my spirit was at rest, but there I knew no joy,
For sorrow could not enter there, t'was peace without
	alloy.
Exalted beings there were clothed with immortality;
And to be like them I must take on earth mortality.
My eyes are open now to see the evil and the good,
And if the covenant I keep, I'll soon return to God;
There I shall reign with kings, and queens, and be forever
	blest,
A thousand years with Christ on earth a thousand years
	of rest;
Thus spake the angel, but she has gone, I see her face
	no more,
But round me still the memory clings and will forever-
	more.
										P. H. Y.


'TIS BUT A FOOLISH DREAM OF
MINE.

M. J. TANNER.

'Tis but a foolish dream of mine,
	As fleeting and as vain
As many a thought that passes by,
	And never comes again.

But Oh! so long I've held it there,
	And pressed it to my heart;
Though other dreams may be as fair
	It never can depart.

Throughout life's long and busy day
	Its echoes oft will ring,
And fleeting shadows pass away,
	As showers of the spring.

The tender cords of love may bind
	Two happy hearts in one;
But envy's jealous darts will find
	Love's labors all undone.

The gilded walls of marble halls,
	To mirth and joy resound;
But oft within the cottage walls
	True happiness is found.

It is not born of high estate,
	Nor yet of low degree;
There's sorrow for the wise and great
	And sorrow waits for me.

Then let me cherish while I can
	The tender dreams of youth;
The ties that bind our earthly 
	The flowers of love and truth.


And if, perchance, within the heart
	Some tender bud may bloom,
That does not form of life apart,
	The soul should give it room.

Then let me dream of love or fame,
	Or spring time sweetly spent;
The leaves that in the summer came
	With April showers were blent.

If all life’s hours were dull and gray,
	Duty our only call;
The birds of spring would fly away,
	And leave its crumbling wall.

'Tis but a foolish dream I ween,
	So fleeting and so vain;
But as eaeh springtime grass is green,
	It ever comes again.


LETTER TO THE PRIMARY.

	KENT, ENGLAND FEB. 3rd, 1882.
TO THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION OF BOX
ELDER STAKE.

	Dear Brothers and Sisters, I feel as though I
would not be doing my duty if I should neglect
writing to you, after the great good you have
accomplished, in sending for the poor Saints
that are not able to help themselves. The little
boys and girls in England, don't have such nice
homes as you have. I have been traveling
among the people of England for over a year,
and I've often felt as though I could sit down
and weep, when I see little boys and girls that
cannot get enough to eat, and sometimes their
mothers will go without anything to eat, so they
can have something to give their little children.
I've sat down at a table to eat after walking
twenty miles, and I would look at the little
children I could see that they were hungry; then
I would eat but a few bites and tell the children
to eat the rest. It would do me more good to
see them eat, than for me to eat a dozen sup-
pers. You little boys and girls have plenty,
and if I should call and see some of you, you
could give me something to eat and not suf-
fer for it. One day as I was walking through
the village, and thinking of the poor saints, I
wondered, what I could do that I might get en-
ough money, to send out a little girl from Eng-
land, and something said to me write to the
President of the Primary Association, and see
if she cannot get all the little boys and girls, to
donate a few cents a week till they get enough
to send for a little girl. I then wrote to the
President and in about six weeks received an
answer, saying she thought they would be able
to send for a little girl or two, by the last com-
pany that left Liverpool.
	Dear boys and girls you don't know how
pleased I was to sec the little girl leave Eng-
land, and go to the land that the Lord had pro-
vided for His people to flee to, in order that
they might be protected from the judgments
that are coming upon those that will not serve
Him and keep His commandments. The
mother of the little girl that you sent for wish-
es to be remembered to you all, and she feels
that the Lord has blessed her in opening the
hearts of the Primary Associations in helping
her child from this land. Dear brothers and
sisters you are now engaged in something that
will prove a blessing to you on the earth as
well as hereafter, for by sending for the girl
you have been the means of bringing another
into the Church so you see you are missionaries.
I’ve walked over four thousand miles in the past
year. I have found many kind friends some
that are not of us, but they are honest-hearted,
when I've been delivering the word of God to
the people, I've had them shut the door in my
face, and say they didn’t want anything to do
with the Mormons. While I am writing a
sister comes in and tells me her husband has
been scolding her for attending meetings here on
Sunday. He watches her like a cat watching
a mouse, lest she should see some of the Eld-


ers. It is not because we are such bad men
but because we are teaching the word of the
Lord. I hope the Lord will bless you in the
good work in which you are engaged in obeying
the counsel which is given and the Lord will
bless you in all you undertake to do in righte-
ousness. Love to all that are engaged in the
building up of God’s kingdom.
	I remain your brother in the Gospel.
					FRANK H. SNOW.


PRIMARIES IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	March 7th 1882 a meeting was held in the
Tabernacle to organize the Primary Associa-
tions for the Stake. Sister Julia H. Ivins was
sustained and set apart as President; with Sis-
ters Mary G. Whitehead and Annie C. Wood-
bury as Counselors; Annie M. W. Romney as
Secretary; and E. P. Bently as Treasurer;
were also set apart by the brethren. Sisters
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
were present and gave much eloquent as well
useful instruction.
	During the spring and summer all schools
and meetings were suspended on account of the
prevalence of diptheria. In the early fall Pres.
Ivins once more commenced the work which
has since grown in interest, benefit, and mutual
pleasure. In the winter Sisters Ellen S. Claw-
son and Aurelia S. Rogers met with the Prim-
aries of this and adjoining towns and seemed
equally as well pleased to meet with the mem-
bers as we were to see them.
	The Secretary A. M. W. Romney having
moved to Arizona and consequently resigned
Pres. Ivins appointed Susa Young Gates as
Stake Sec'y.
	Our President is a live, active General over
her little army of youthful saints, and labors
in the dual capacity of Ward Pres., and Stake
Pres., verily; cheerfulness and energy are
goodly possessions, and the consequence is, our
Associations seem to grow more interesting as
time passes on. Joint monthly meetings have
been called by the Pres. at which oftentimes
the Officers and some members of the Wards 5
miles off walk over to attend.
	A Stake Fair is in contemplation for the
near future and if energetic efforts will make
it a success the Pres. and her able Counselors
are sure to succeed. Our Conference has just
closed.
	On Saturday the 18th the Primary Conference
was held. It was the best attended of any of
the Woman’s Conferences. Numbers of repres-
entatives were present from other wards and a
most enjoyable time was experienced.
	The Primary of this Stake, I will conclude
by saying is in a most excellent condition
throughout.
		Your sister &c.
					SUSA YOUNG GATES.


MRS. Emily Charles is the editor of the
"National Veteran" a new paper published in
Washington.
	The House passed the law allowing woman
to practise as attornys at law in the United
States.
	The Legislature of the State of Iowa have
passed through both branches a bill granting
suffrage to women from the Constitutional
Committee. The bill reads. "That the con-
stitution of the State be amended by striking
out the word "male" from Section 1 Article 2
of said constitution and that the same be re-
ferred to the Legislature to be chosen at the
next general election of members of the Gen-
eral Assembly and that the Secretary of State
cause the same to be published for three months
previous to the day of said election, as provied
by law."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMANS'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
SENSATIONAL STORIES ABOUT THE
MORMONS.

	One conversant with the facts cannot help
feeling astonished at the sensational stories told
of family life among the Mormons. There are
the bugbears that have frightened the people of
the United States into compelling the rulers of
the land to deal with the people of Utah as out-
laws and felons. But why should not Congress
pause until disinterested men and women could
have been sent to make a correct and fair inves-
tigation in the premises. What necessity was
there for the desperate hurry, unless it was that
there was a fear of facts coming to light that
would preclude the need of special legislation?
No other Territory of the Republic of America is
so favorably situated at the present time as
Utah, or as it was previous to the passage of the
Edmund's bill. The very fact that these com-
plainers have stirred up such fountains of
bitterness having enriched themselves
here and established their various forms
of religion disproves what they say of the Mor-
mon people. They see this little band of exiles
driven without mercy into the barren wilderness
growing rich, and as they imagine powerful, and
in the envy of their hearts, they cannot endure
it, but want to have another trial to see if there
is any power in the "Mormon" priesthood.
They cannot bear to see this hated and despised
class lift up their heads and grow independent.
They have sought in vain, with a few exceptions,
to decoy the children of the Saints. And they are
grown discouraged in offering the old-time worn
thread-bare stories like the Spaulding romance
and others of even a more sensational character.
	There is nothing so calculated to arouse the
most intense emotions of the heart of a "Mor-
mon," as the oft-repeated assertion in the news-
papers of the country that "there are no homes
in Utah." In no place under the shining sun is
home held more sacred, or domestic ties more
binding, and the proportion of happy homes
where love reigns supreme is indeed very large.
To attempt the destruction of these home-sanc-
tuaries where virtue is nourished and protected,
and honesty, truth and uprightness inculcated,
and spread desolation and misery broadcast is the
prospective work of the reconstructors in enforc-
ing the Edmund's bill. To be instrumental in
seeking to tear asunder those who have entered
into holy covenants with each other, to rend the
heart-strings of the loving and devoted, to make
shipwreck of human happiness, with all the at-
tendant consequences of this terrible state of
affairs, no one need envy these agents of the
government, the five commissioners. One in-
terested heart and soul in the matter, cannot
help seriously and intensely pondering as to the
outcome of such exceptional proceedings, by a
government professing protection for all men
irrespective of religion. That the principle of
plural marriage among the Latter-day Saints is
practised most positivly from strong religious

[Column 2]
convictions must be well known to all who are
acquainted with the individual character and
home life of this people. Were it not so such
sacrifices could not have been willingly made, as
have been absolutely necessary in the establish-
ment of this new departure in social ethics. It
is not the most pleasant thing to be "hated of all
men" and have "your name cast out as evil."
The passage of the Edmund's bill will be sure to
provoke and involve other difficult questions
which will sap the very foundation of the struc-
ture on which justice is enthroned (if it has not
already been done) and the people who have
clamored and urged upon Congress this crusade
agains the "Mormons," will yet have to suffer
from the effects of this very precendent, they
have been the means of establishing. The
"Mormons" are not going to be the only sufferers
from the adoption of such radical laws. The sec-
tarian priests who have been loudest in denounc-
ing the "Mormons" from the pulpit and to the
government may tremble for fear of the retribu-
tion which is sure to follow upon their devoted
heads, now that the government has commenced
legislating against one form of religion.
	This is only the beginning but what shall the
end be? Who can tell? The Latter-day Saints
can endure oppression from the hands of their
enemies even unto death if need be, but Zion will
be established in the tops of the mountains, and
the Lord in his own due time will make bare his
arm in defense of this people!


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Annual Conference is near at hand, and
it will probably be one of the most interesting
and remarkable Conferences that has ever con-
vened. The important era of time in which we
are living will make an impression upon every-
thing connected with the Latter-day work.
There is no doubt but the people will make a
great effort to assemble from all parts of the
Territory.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, who has been for
the past six months in New York City attending
the medical and surgical clinics at Belle Vue
Hospital, and the Woman's Hospital of the State
of New York, is on her way home and is expected
to arrive about Apr. 1. She will commence a class
in Midwifery Apr. 17th. The course of instruc-
tion will be practical and thorough and those
desiring to join the class will please send their
names to the Exponent Office as soon as pos-
sible in order that books may be procured in
time. Tuition $30.00 Books $12.00.
	Henry W. Longfellow, the poet, departed
this life on Friday evening March 24th, his com-
plaint was inflammation of the bowels. His
name and fame are widely know both in America
and Europe. His funeral was held at his resid-
ence in Cambridge on the 27th, and was at-
tended by many of the literati. The services
were conducted by his brother the Rev. Samuel
Longfellow. Memorial services were held in
Harvard College the same evening. This great-
est of American poets was born in Portland,
Maine, Feb. 27, 1807. As a boy he distinguished
himself in literary pursuits and at fourteen en-
tered Bowdoin college and graduated with honor
in 1825. Fifty years after in l875—a grand reun.
ion of the old professors and classmates was held
at Bowdoin college and Longfellow was the poet
laureate of the occasion, the poem entitled
Morituri Salutamus was pathetic and artistic.
Evangeline, Hyperion, Hiawatha, The Golden
Legend, and The Spanish Student are among
the most popular of his writings. He lived just
three quarters of a century, but his works are
immortalized as are those of every true poet.
	ON Friday March the 17, was the Fortieth

[Column 2]

Anniversary of the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
it was also the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Elizabeth H. Goddard of this city, and the
two anniversaries were kept at Sister G's. house
in an appropriate manner. The invited guests
assembled at three o'clock p. m. and at four
o’clock sat down to a bounteous repast. Bishop
M. Attwood prouounced the blessing. The only
gentlemen present were Bishop Attwood and
Bro. G. Goddard, but there were twenty or more
representative ladies. After supper all assembled
in the parlor and the question was asked, how
many were there in the room who were present
in Nauvoo at the first organization, when it was
found there were only two, Sisters Sarah M.
Kimball and Bathsheba W. Smith. Several
others there had been members of the Society
but not present at the organization. Sisters
Kimball and Smith related some incidents re-
lative to the subject, and Sister Phebe Woodruff
gave a chapter from her experience, Sister M. I.
Horne also spoke of the many trying scenes
through which she had passed with the Saints.
Sister Kimball read from the diary of Joseph
Smith his views concerning the Relief Society,
its object and the manner in which the meetings
should be conducted.
	The evening was spent in intelligent conver-
sation upon the principles and practise of the re-
ligion of the Latter-day Saints and all felt the
day had been a pleasant one. During the even-
ing Bro. Goddard, and others sang some favorite
hymns. Sister Goddard may well be satisfied
with the day, for although it was stormy with-
out, which hindered Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
and others from attending, yet the occasion was
an exceedingly pleasant one, and we wish Sister
Goddard not only many happy returns of the
day but joy and happiness here, and eternal hap-
piness hereafter with those she loves in the man-
sions of glory.


SISTERS—OF WHOM SHALL WE BUY.

	There is more in this question than a casual
observer might think.
	The politicial, civil and social rights of the en-
tire people are threatened; that there is a deep laid
scheme to rob us of all these no careful observer
will deny. Polygamy is the ostensible bone of
contention, the attack is (seemingly) made up-
on this institution alone. Because of this, our
fathers, husbands, brothers, sons, as well as our-
selves (who have entered into these relations) are
to be disfranchised, denied not only the right of
office but even the right to cast our vote for those
who might be our choice for office.
	The people who came here first and took the
initiative in determining the question (for it was
a question) of inhabiting this mountainous region
and demonstrated not only the possibility but
the practicability of such inhabiting; the Sires,
Matrons, and their children who are to-day re-
warded with comfortable homes, beautiful gard-
ens and orchards, fields yielding plentifully and
surrounded with the comforts of life generally;
after a period of nearly thirty-five years of exper-
ment, toil, hardship, privation, want and more
than once, threatened famine have become the
envy of hungry cormorants, who love to feed
upon that which is already provided: these are
politic withal; "we will do nothing," they say,
but what the law allows, justifies and warrants.
We offer you women and children of these wicked
polygamists protection under the law, freedom
from matrimonial covenants entered into under
Mormon administration, for these are unlawful.
We will place you upon a higher plane than that
you now occupy; you shall become like unto us.
Leave the practices of barbaric ages and accept


of the advanced civilization of the nineteenth
Century.
	Finding the Statute book wanting in some par-
ticulars for the accomplishment of this laudable
object we have obtained Special Legislation to
enable us to carry out our pure intentions toward
you and trust you will readily acquiesce; failing
in which we shall be compelled to execute the
law by inflicting the penalties which it provides,
by means of this special legislation.
	Who are these that thus coax and threaten in
one breath; to what society do they belong?
We would like to know them. Oh! these are
Ministers of the gospel, of the meek and lowly
Jesus, and Federal officials, appointed by the
government sent as the servants of the people to
watch over their interests and see that their
rights are held sacred; members of the legal pro-
fession whose only aim should be right and justice
Merchants—stop! I have seen the highest of-
ficial of a State pledge his own honor and the
faith of his state to protect the life of the Prophet
of God, (Joseph Smith) I have seen that honor
sacrificed, that faith broken and foul murder fol-
low. I have seen the luminaries of the law drag
in the mire their high attainments in trying to
tear truth from its foundations and to stamp up-
on innocence the foulest crimes. I have seen
the learned divine rave and foam at the mouth
when defeated in fair argument by the unlearned
Elder, and have heard said divine advocate all
sorts of wicked and unlawful things to be vis-
ited upon his successful antagonist: but the Mer-
chant—you surely must be mistaken, for it would
be against his own interest to make common
cause with these you have named and others.
Let me assure you then, I am not mistaken, for
in this special legislation I have named while the
Merchants may not have been as clamorous as
the rest, they have stood idly by and when asked
to sign a petition to have investigation made of
these most false, foul and corrupt charges against
the people of Utah; before such special legisla-
tion was enacted, have almost universally
refused and thus stand upon the same platform
as our avowed enemies.
	That they have sought our trade 'tis true,
have tried to suit our taste and fancy is also true;
but this was to their pecuniary advantage for
have we not paid our money for all they have
let us have? Yes; to the tune of millions, and
more promptly perhaps than the same number
of people of any other class would have done in
all Christendom, for is not Mormon honesty in
paying debts proverbial? Then we owe them no-
thing; absolutely nothing: for if an equitable
balance were declared it would show the odds in
their favor as their enlarged show rooms and
mammoth stores testify,as well as their generally
improved financial condition.
	They have now drawn the dividing line we
did not do it. Had we been left alone we might
still have bought of them and they sold to us;
those who have already grown rich upon Mor-
mon patronage might have become richer and
others might have followed in their wake. But
now—"Of whom shall we buy?" Let every
mother and daughter in Israel answer this ques-
tion for herself. More than a Century ago wo-
man made common cause against her oppres-
sers: let the daughters of these noble women (of
whom Utah can boast a very large share) follow
their example in at least one particular, "To not
give succor to the Enemy',' The line has been
drawn; they having defined it, let us respect the
mark they have made.
	"Of whom shall we buy?" Hereafter only of
him or her who we know to be our friend, the
friend also of right, truth, justice and of God.
	AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


Mass meeting of the People's Party at the
City Hall to-day.


[Column 1]
NEW YORK LETTER.

		NEW YORK MAR. 14 1862.

	EDITOR EXPONENT—The suspense is over and
both Houses of Congress have declared their de-
termination to put down Mormonism, even if it be
at the expense of a violated Constitution—Pract-
ically they have said that Mormons have no
rights that Governments are bound to respect—
Their motive is not to promote virtue, purity,
good order, morality and religion. If these were
their desires, they would find quite enough work
nearer home—work that would tax all their leg-
islative power to accomplish. The agitation is
not made by the people. Most of them know
but little about the Mormons, and trouble them-
selves far less about either their social or religi-
ous pecularities. The politicians and the clergy
are the prime movers in the matter. The former,
because they know that a fearful social and fi-
nancial crisis is near at hand, and they desire to
divert the attention of the people from the irre-
pressible conflict between Capital—Monopoly
and Labor, which will very soon produce a panic
more serious than any that have preceded it, and
therefore they cry "Mormonism Polygamy—
Down with Mormonism." The clergy join in
the cry with might and main for almost the
same reason. Like Demetrius and the silver
smiths of Ephesus, their craft is in danger.
The triumph of Mormonism, which is the tri-
umph of the Gospel of the new and everlasting
covenant, is the death blow to Sectarian Christ-
ianity.
	The hireling priests of modern Babylon who
preach for hire and divine for money are in every
respect like the Pharisees of old, they "have
taken away the key of knowledge" and have
neither entered in themselves nor permitted
others to enter in who would. And if an in-
dividual or newspaper, more independent than
the rest, dares to utter one word in behalf of
justice and fair play, Constitutional and religious
liberty, the cry of "Mormon sympathizer!!
Polygamist!" Is immediately raised to intimid-
ate them into silence. One incident will serve
to show how ignorant the masses of the people
are. A prominent society lady in New York
said to me a few weeks ago that she had always
supposed that the Mormons were a tribe of
Indians who had given the Government a great
deal of trouble by killing and massacring white
people who traveled that way. When I showed
her the views of our city, and gave her the art-
icles of faith and a newspaper to read, she was
amazed. I could relate many incidents of this
character which I have met with during my
stay here. I should have been very pleased,
could I have commanded the time, to have been
a more regular correspondent, but my medical
and surgical work has been so continuous and
absorbing, that I have not had a moment to spare
for any thing outside of it. Though New York
abounds with opportunities of culture in every
department of art and science, and under other
circumstances I should have deeply appreciated
them. I determined that nothing should inter-
fere with my entire devotion to the course of
study I had marked out for myself before com
ing here. I feel gratefully to acknowledge the
hand of God in opening up my way and enabling
me to accomplish even more than I had ever
anticipated. During the first three months my
time was almost entirely occupied at Belle Vue
Hospital, attending the clinical lectures, and in
Dispensary work in the out door department
where I made a special study of diseases of the
Nose, Throat, Lungs and Heart, examining and
treating from forty to fifty patients every week.
The knowledge and experience that I have
gained in this department alone would more
than repay me for my visit. The remaining

[Column 2]
three months I have spent in the Woman's
Hospital of the State of New York studying the
Diseases of Women, under the most eminent
gynecologists of the present day.
	In this department I have had large oppor-
tunities for practical work, as well as clinical
instructions under Drs. Emmet, Gaillard,
Thomas, See and Bozeman, men who have no
superiors among the professional talent of this
country, and who have attained a worldwide
reputation for surgical skill and pathological
reseach in gynecological medicine, And now
that my work is done and I am about to turn
my face homeward I feel as if for the first time
I dared to give vent to my feelings and indulge
in a desperate home longing. The thought of
returning to Zion, of reunion and association
with the people of God and enjoyment of the
blessings and ordinances of the Lord's House
fills my heart with joy.
	My association with the people of the world
made me feel more than ever thankful that I
am a Latter-day Saint, and I pray to be kept
humble and faithful unto the end. May the
Lord bless Zion and comfort His people, over
rule all things for the good of His Church and
kingdom, until He comes whose right it is to
reign. Love to all from yours truly.
					ELLEN B. FERGUSON.


IN MEMORIAM.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of another Veteran in Israel Sister Jane
Tuckett who departed this life March 10th 1882,
after an illness of one week, at the residence of
her son in the 11th Ward, Salt Lake City, at the
advanced age of 80 years 9 months and 7 days.
	Deceased was born in East Grinstead, Sussex,
England, July 3rd 1795. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in London May, 1818. Emigrated to America
in the ship Berlin in 1819, passing through New
Orleans, remained in St. Louis five years.
Crossed the plains in Moses Thurston's company
in 1855 and became one of the pioneer settlers in
Spanish Fork, also St. George, Utah where she
buried her only daughter. She was a woman of
remarkable energy and retained all her faculties
to the last moment, conversing freely of her exit
to the life beyond as one would speak of an ex-
pected pleasure trip, consigning various articles
to the care of her friends as tokens of remem-
brance.
	Death had lost all its terrors and she earnestly
desired to enjoy the rest promised to the obedient
and faithful; she had finished her useful career,
was satisfied with life and counseled her children
to live the religion revealed through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and prepare themselves to receive
a fulness in the celestial kingdom of God. She
only clung to life until she could see two absent
sons who had been summoned to her side, only
one of whom arrived in time to see her pass
away without a struggle. Her life was devoted
to ministering to the sick and needy and many
will have cause to remember her kindness with
deep gratitude' She was the mother of seven
children, and leaves four sons, thirty-one grand-
children, five great grand-children and a wide
circle of friends. She died as she had lived, a
true Latter-day Saint, with the assurance of a
glorious resurrection. Her funeral was largely
attended in the 11th, Ward meeting house
March 10th, when the remains of a good woman
a most devoted mother and true friend were
quietly laid to rest to await the resurrection of
the just.
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies dawn—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown."
			LILLIE F. FREEZE.


166	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	The Young Ladies Association of Sugar House
Ward met at the residence of our President,’Mrs.
Harriet A. Hardy on the 9th, of March for the
purpose of celebrating the 54th anniversary of
her birthday. The following gifts were pres-
ented to her as tokens of appreciation and love
by the members. A bouquet of zephyr flowers, an
Autograph Aibum with the autographs, of all
the members of the Association, a painting by a
young lady 15 years old, an elegant birthday
cake made by three of the young ladies, some
poetry was read which had been composed for
the occasion by Miss Lillie Hansen. A bountiful
repast was prepared by the young ladies, and the
afternoon was spent in delightful, social inter-
course; all joining in wishing our beloved Pre-
sident many happy returns of the day.
					RHODA HARDY, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	DEAR SISTER WELLS: The Conference of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle on March the
9th. Thought you would perhaps like to know
a little of what was done and said on that day.
We missed the presence of Sister Snow and
yourself very much, but although you were
both absent you were not forgotten, and had
the love, faith and prayers of all the brethren
and sisters at this time. I will try and tell
you a little, becanse you know it would be dif-
ficult in a short letter to begin to tell of the
many great and glorious principles that the
Saints of the Most High, have to talk of. The
subjects being various, and many, and as a
general thing they do not while speaking in a
meeting of this kind confine their thoughts to
one particular subject. The Conference was
conducted by President Jane S. Richards, com-
menced by singing, prayer by Bishop Joseph
M. Harris. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted, also the reports, 17 in num-
ber.
	President Richards addressed the congrega-
tion, spoke of the duty of Saints, thought what-
soever was a duty, whether great or small.
should also be a pleasure to be performed by
us as a people. Thought it would be wise to
meet oftener together, by so doing we would
enjoy the Spirit of the Lord to a still greater
extent than we now do, and that we would be
more united; to be a great and good people we
must have the spirit of love and unity in our
midst, for we know not how many may be the
trials and temptations we may have to endure
for our religion. Spoke of the blessing that
even trials sometimes were to us; also of the
little things of life. Prayed the Lord to bless
and sustain us all in doing good. Counselor
Hattie Brown. Desired to respond to every
call made of her,thought that in doing our duty
we would find great pleasure. Spoke of ignor-
ance, felt that no true Saint could be ignorant,
having so many good books to read, and hear,
ing so many great and noble thoughts from
some of the best and noblest of men. Thought
we should pray for one another, and through
faith build each other up, and not pull down.
Counselor Sarah J. Herrick, was pleased to see
so many in attendance, from throughout the
County, it being very stormy weather,it showed
that they were alive to their duties, and God
would bless and pour his Holy Spirit upon
them, that they would better realize the bless-
ings and goodness of a loving Father to them.
	Brother Joseph Harris, felt to praise the
Lord for his goodness to the Saints; knew the
span of life on this side the vale was short, and
life's journey full of trials and temptations, still
we have very many pleasures; it is a pleasure
to be surrounded by friends, by those whom

[Column 2]

we love, and are co-workers with us. We feel
comforted even in sorrow, and can look up and
praise and sing to God, thought that like the
three Nephites of old, a great deal of our sor-
row, shoud be for the wicked of the world, felt
the Saints took pleasure in pushing forward in
all things pertaining to the kingdom of God; in
sunshine or rain, and those having the Spirit of
God dwelling in their hearts were indeed happy;
they can tell the Spirit of the Lord from other
spirits; it will whisper peace, and joy to their
souls, and take away hatred, strife, malice,
and all evil from their hearts; their whole de-
sire being to do good. Said that if we followed
the Spirit of the Lord, all would be well with
us, that it would lead us in good paths. He
dwelt at some length upon the stage of life, do-
ing good, etc.
	The meeting adjourned, with singing and
benediction. The afternoon meeting com-
menced as usual, with singing and prayer.
The Presidents of the various societies reported
verbally, all being in a prosperous condition,
the members all feeling to rejoice in the bless-
ings they received through the goodness of
God.
	Bishop Robert McQuarie, felt interested in
the Relief Society, knew the work to be im-
mense, and of great value; it was not the work
of the world, but the work of God; and that
those who tried in any way to overthrow it, are
measuring arms with the Almighty, and they
would find sooner or later, that there is a fear-
full odds against them; for this work will con-
tinue to roll until it fills the whole earth, and
that our enemies will only do what the Lord
will let them; they would like to bring us into
bondage, but they will not be able to do it for
the Lord is on our side. Thought the Saints
in majority were growing nearer to God every
day, there are some drones in our midst, you
will find them everywhere for there are many
with no religion in them. He spoke upon
many subjects of interest to us as a people.
The Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang, "We thank thee O God for a Prophet."
Benediction by Brother Peter Later.
	MONTA HARRIS.

PROVO CITY.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER: Thinking perhaps you would
like to hear a little news from the 1st Ward, I
take the liberty of sending you these few lines.
On the 22nd, of Feb., being the anniversary of
Bro. Edward Meacham's birthday, Bishop J. P.
R. Johnson and his wife, the beloved President
of our Relief Society, and a few of the brethren
and sisters of the 1st. Ward met at his resid-
ence to give him a surprise party. After the
tables were spread with the good things of this
life, Sister Meacham sent for her husband (who
had been visiting at a neighbor's) when he saw
so many gathered together to pay their respects
to him, words failed to express his feelings.
When all were seated Bishop Johnson presented
Brother and Sister Meacham with a small
present as a token of the good feeling and esteem
of the brethren and sisters. Brother E. Meac-
ham is 80 years old, is one of the first settlers
of Provo, and a faithful man in the Church.
Sister Sophy Meacham was our Secretary for
11 years, but on account of her eye-sight fail-
ing she had to resign and is now a Teacher
faithful in all her labors. Our Society is in a
prosperous condition as also the Primary Asso-
ciation. Wishing the EXPONENT great success
in the cause of Truth.
	ANN S. DUGDALE.

BEAVER CITY.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: The Conference of the
Y. L. M. I.  Association of Beaver Stake was

[Column 3]

held in the Beaver meeting house, Friday
March 3rd, 1882.
	The attendance was unusually large, consist-
ing of representatives from all of the wards. A
large number of visitors were also present.
	The reports from the various wards, show
the associations to be in a much more flourish-
ing condition than at last Conference. There
has been quite an improvement in the exercises,
and a lively interest is manifested by the mem-
bers generally.
	The Association of Minersville, presided over
by Mrs .Lydia Blackburn, deserves special men-
tion, having excelled in the number of meet-
ings, attendance, and the promptness of the
members in carrying out the exercises.
	The Conference was addressed by a number
of the young ladies, by Sisters Grundy and
Dotson, and by President Jno. Ashworth.
	The readiness with which the young sisters
responded to the call, and the marked improve-
ment in public speaking, are truly gratifying.
Mary E. Ashworth, President; Fannie Harris,
and Ada E. Farnsworth, Counselors; Sadie
Shepherd, Secretary; Clara Murdock; Treas-
urer.
	SADIE SHEPHERD.

PAROWAN STAKE.

	The 9th Quarterly Conference of Relief So-
cieties of the Parowan Stake of Zion was held
at Cedar City, Sunday Feb. 5th; 1882, com-
mencing at 10 P. M.
	Present of the stand: T. J. Jones, and Mor-
gan Richards Jr., of the Presidency of the
Stake, and other leading brethren from the
different wards; President Ellen W. Lunt,
Mary Ann Lunt and Huldah A. Mitchell of
the Stake Relief Society, Presidents of Branches
of Relief Society, of Y. L. M. I. Associations,
Primary Associations, and others. After the
usual exercises, Pres. E. W. Lunt made a few
opening remarks and invoked the blessing of
the Lord upon the Conference. Minutes of
last Couference read and approved, also the
statistical and financial reports of each Relief
Society in the Stake, viz. Parowan, Cedar City,
Paragoonah and Summit. The remainder of
the forenoon was occupied by several of the
sisters bearing their testimony to the truth
of the work in which we are all engaged.
Choir sang, adjourned till 2 P. M. Benedic-
tion by Pres. Morgan Richards.
	At 2, P. M., after the usual exercises and
prayer by Elder Francis Webster,sacrament was
administered, Choir singing "Nearer my God to
thee." The officers of presiding board both
general and local were presented and unani-
mously sustained. Verbal reports of the So-
cieties were given by their respective Presid-
ents, showing that the faithful sisters felt well
in their labors and desirous of doing all that was
required of them. Many good instructions
were given by the sisters who spoke, of whom
there were many. The principle of Celestial
Marriage was strongly advocated and testimo-
nies borne in favor of the same. Some very
good counsel was given to the young brethren
and sisters just starting out in life together, to
start aright, not neglecting family prayers.
Conference was adjourned to be held at Sum-
mit May 7th, 1882. Benediction by Pres. T.
J. Jones.
	SARAH CHATTERLEY Sec'y.


PIPSEY PAPERS.—No 19.

	I have been trying for some time to take my
kinitting (my pen rather) and spend a little
time with Mrs. Scott.
	She wishes to know something of our lives,
and of the manners and habits of the people of
Utah. Some of our sisters have answered her
very ably, and I can fully endorse what they
have said but the subject is inexhaustible, and


[Column 1]
the lady wishes to know something of our man-
ners and habits as well as our theories concern-
ing marriage, so I will try to enlighten her so
far as I can. Each man who marries two or
more wives, manages his family affairs accord-
ing to the best of his judgment and the disposi-
tions of those with whom he is associated, just
as men do that have but one wife. Some men
think they can can manage the wife or wives
and some allow them to manage themselves.
Some families are very agreeable and study each
other's welfare and happiness, while others, I
am sorry to say, are not quite so harmonious in
their relation with each other. As far as my
observation extends that is generally the case
where there is but one wife. That does not by
any means condemn marriage,which we believe
to be a sacred and holy institution, and pecu-
liarly adapted to the welfare and happiness of
mankind.
	Our sons as well as our daughters are taught
to esteem their virtue, above any price and hold
most sacred the marriage covenants. The
sacred rites of our Church enjoin virtue and
purity, and those who transgress are held ac-
countable to God in a greater degree than those
who sin in ignorance.
	Some men provide for their families separ-
ately and each wife is head of her own house-
hold affairs. It places upon her greater re-
sponsibilites in training her children, and mul-
plies her cares, as the father must divide his
time and cannot always be at either home. It
teaches a woman self-reliance and necessitates
her to live nearer to God.
	Of "Mormon" women, I believe they will yet
take the lead among the women of the world,
as they have taken the lead in the franchise,
their discipline and practical education fitting
them to do so.
	Some wives prefer living in one home where
they can enjoy more of the company of the
husband, and have their families more immedi-
ately under his control.
	I have a neighbor who many years ago en-
tered into the practise of the order of plural
marriage. His first wife had no children, and
when he proposed marrying another, she exacted
the promise that the first child that was born
should he given to her. A promise which was
faithfully kept, for in due time a son was born
which she claimed and raised as her own. He
married a third wife who was also blessed with
children. After a few years both of the young
mothers died, leaving the first wife with eight
children to raise. I met her one day sobbing
ready to break her heart. "Oh sister T," said
she, "Emma is dead, and what shall I do? I
have often prayed for children but did not ex-
pect my prayers answered in this manner. I
said, "do the best you can and God will help
you." And He has blessed her. The children
have grown up around her and are respected
men and women. Some are married and have
families, and her feelings are as kindly towards
them as if they were her own. How much
happier the couple are than if they had gone
down to a childless old age.
	It is common for men whose wives have no
children to marry again, and who shall say it
is wrong. Who shall say that a man should go
down to a childless old age and have no one to
perpetuate his name, or mourn for him when
he is gone, because his first choice fails to fill
his expectations. There are many circum-
stances transpire wherein any unprejudiced per-
son could not fail to see that plural marriage
is a blessing. We connot deny that it is often
a trial. Some feel it in one way and some in
another; but God says He will have a tried
people. He says also that they shall he tried
in all things; and they shall be as gold seven
times refined in the furnace. If we are God's
chosen people our garments must be washed
white in the blood of the Lamb. I wonder
sometimes if people realize what that means.

[Column 2]
And I sometimes wonder when I see people
passing through trials and adversities, humble
and contrite, holding fast to the faith, if those
men or women are those whose garments should
be "washed white" and they should be brought
up through much tribulation.
	God certainly wishes his children to be hap-
py, and those who rely on Him and his prom-
ises will find their greatest happiness in keep-
ing his commandments, for He has said, "Come
unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden,
for my yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	From what we learn from those who come
among us, our sisters in the East do not find
matrimony a "bed of roses." They are, many
of them, suspicious of their husbands, and men
fear to trust their wives, thus making marriage
a thing to he shunned as bringing responsibili-
ties and heart-burnings they are not willing to
encounter.
	The nation is spending its wrath on a few in-
significant people away off in the mountains,
where we had thought to get out of everybody's
way, and worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences. But should we re-
main obscure and unknown? We should not
be what we profess; a power that shall be
known and acknowledged throughout the
world. It is written that God will make the
wrath of man to praise Him; and while the
heads of the nation are puzzling their brains as
to how they are to solve the "Mormon problem,"
we are sitting quietly at home, and making our-
selves happy in attending to our own business.
	As I sat in meeting yesterday listening to the
statistical reports of this stake, for the past three
months, I noticed that there were several more
boys than girls born during the time, also that
there were a number of men less than women
who had died. I could but reflect that God
was quite capable of disposing of the vexatious
question through natural principles. I heard
a probate judge say a few years ago in speaking
of unhappiness, in plural marriage, that he was
led to suppose there was more unhappiness
among those who were not in it, from the fact
that he gave five divorces to one given by Pre-
sident Brigham Young. I believe we can truly
say that we enjoy a large share of happiness. It
does not consist in any given condition of life.
Our "Gentile" sisters are unhappy in bearing
children, while we are most unhappy in not
bearing them; believing that to be woman's
highest mission on the earth. Many women
who are left widows in youth are only induced
to marry again by their desire to raise families;
and very few marry single men, as they prefer
a small portion of the society of a husband
they can truly honor, to the society of such
single men as would be likely to marry women
of their age and position.
	Every women who is married according to
the celestial law, being united with her husband
for eternity, and it is not usual for men believ-
ing in the Gospel to marry the wives of men
who are dead until they have already chosen a
wife for themselves, to be their's through all
eternity. For we believe in marriage as ex-
plained in the Bible, and take such examples
as Ruth and Boaz, for instance, in such cases.
We do not believe that a woman should spend
her life alone because her husband has gone be-
hind the veil, but should marry and raise a
family for her honor and for his also. The
afternoon is well spent and I will bid Mrs. Scott
good evening, hoping our gossip may prove sat-
isfactofy and we shall hear from her again. I
can assure her if she would call and see us she
would not be at all frightened, for we are
friendly people and abhor immorality above all
things.							MARY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 167


THE REASON WHY.

	In the glorious day in which we live, we s
the intellect of man and woman unfolding li


a flower, to bring us nearer to "Him who rules
on high." Science takes her votaries by the
hand and says, "Behold the wonders that have
existed since the world was, yet have they been
hidden for ages, and mortality has lived and
died, and never known that these things were,
till in this the last, the eleventh hour, they are
revealed to man." Yet weak, erring man
takes all the glory to himself, and tells us he
has done all this. Yes! by faith and research,
application and experiments, great and won-
derful things have been made known to those
who live in this day. The wonders of elec-
tricity, of steam, of the spectrum, of the dis-
tance of worlds, and existence of new metals
and gases in worlds, that it takes hundreds of
years for the light to reach this little second-
rate world of ours. All these things come like
an avalanche to overthrow old theories. We
wonder, we ponder, we accept them. But the
immortality of the soul, our condition before
we were mortal beings, and our future exis-
tence, all those great and important subjects
that one would naturally suppose would receive
the most attention from the intelligent portion
of humanity, are based upon the false reason-
ing of weak men.
	Who made your spirit, mighty man? With
all your knowledge can you stay the hand of
death and live for ever? Can you do aught
but learn and utilize the great forces which
you have no power to create? Ah! no; you
are but the creatures of your Father's bounty,
and are subject to the fixed laws which He has
made.
	Is it strange that God should give a plan by
which His children may be saved? And be-
cause He does not choose the worldly wise to
be His instruments to make it known to the
world, is it not a greater proof of His power?
	That God, our Eternal Father, has given
this plan, and is willing for all to believe, and
be saved, I do know and testify; that the time
has come for a people to prepare themselves for
the coming of Him who was slain by the un-
believing Jews, that the way might be prepared
for us to progress here and hereafter; that this
message is sent to all, to those who sit in high
places and low. And because those great fun-
damental truths are not believed by all, men
rise up and say, "You shall be slain if you
persist in such heresies; you must be as we are;
right or wrong;" when they know not the
truth as we know it. "You must lie to your
own consciences and turn traitor to your God,"
that God whom we have already sworn to serve
and obey. To all such I say, Never!
	Truth is truth, and when assailed it only
shines forth with greater brilliancy. What!
give up, for fear of men, that which God has
stamped upon my soul as an everlasting truth?
How dare they ask it. I do not ask any one
to believe as I do, unless that person be con-
vinced of the truth; none can say truthfully
that the Gospel was forced upon them. Yet
would I rejoice it every honest heart could en-
joy and know the blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel.				ZINA Y. WILLIAMS.


THE FAMILY DOCTOR SHOP.

Paste this up for reference in case of emergency.
	Nearly every person knows what to do in
case of injury, or sudden sickness, but it often
happens that under the excitement attending
such circumstances they become confused, and
forget all they know about it. The following
suggestions might be pasted up on the inside of
closet or bookcase door, where they could be
referred to promptly:
	Swallowing saliva relieves sour stomach.
	If children do not thrive on fresh milk, it
should be boiled.
	Hot, dry flannel, applied as hot as possible,
for neuralgia.


[Column 1]

	For nose-bleeding bathe the face and neck
with cold water.
	Tickling in the throat is best relieved by a
gargling of salt and water.
	Sprains and bruises call for an application of
the tincture of arnica.
	For bilious colic, soda and ginger in hot
water. It may be taken freely.
	If an artery is severed, tie a small cord or
handkerchief tightly about it.
	Pains in the side are most promptly relieved
by the application of mustard.
	For cold in the head nothing is better than
powdered borax snuffed up the nostrils.
	Nervous spasms are usually relieved by a
little salt taken into the mouth and allowed to
dissolve.
	Whooping-cough paroxysms are relieved by
breathing the fumes of turpentine or carbolic
acid.
	Broken limbs should be placed in natural
position and the patient kept quiet until the
surgeon arrives.
	Chlorate of potash dissolved in water is a
standard remedy for sore throat, particularly if
the throat feels raw.
	Hemorrhages of the lungs or stomach are
promptly checked by small doses of salt. The
patient should be kept as quiet as possible.
	For pains in the chest or stomach, as much
Dover's powder as will lie on a silver five-cent
piece.
	Sleeplessness caused by too much blood in
head may be overcome by applying a cloth of
cold water to the back of the neck.
	Sickness of the stomach is most promptly re-
lieved by drinking a teacupful of hot soda
water. If it brings the offending matter up,
all the better.
	Wind colic is promptly relieved by pepper-
mint essence taken in a little warm water.
For small children it may be sweetened. Par-
egoric is also good.
	For stomach cramps ginger ale, or a half-tea-
spoonful of the tincture of ginger in a half-glass
of water in which half a teaspoonful of soda
has been dissolved.
	A strong solution of bicarbonate of soda
(baking soda) taken freely is a reliable remedy
for diarrheal troubles, particularly those aris-
ing from acidity of the stomach.
	A teaspoonful of ground mustard in a cup of
warm water is a prompt and reliable emetic
and should be resorted to in case of poisoning
or cramps of the stomach from over-eating.
	Powdered resin is the best thing to stop
bleeding from cuts. After the powder is
sprinkled on, wrap the wound with a soft cotton
cloth. As soon as the wound begins to feel
feverish, keep the cloth wet with cold water.
	For burns, sweet oil and cotton are the stand-
ard remedies. If they are not at hand sprinkle
the burned part with flour, and wrap loosely
with a soft cloth. Don't remove the dressing
until the inflammation subsides, as it will break
the new skin that is forming.
	A strange antidote for poison by dew, poison-
oak, ivy, etc., is to take a handful of quicklime,
dissolve in water, let it stand half an hour, and
then paint the poisoned parts with it. Three
or four applications will never fail to cure the
most aggravated cases.
	Avoid purgatives and strong physics, as they
not only do no good, but are positively hurtful.
Pills may relieve for the time, but they seldom
cure. The pill-taker's latter end is always
worse than his first condition. Stomach bitters
are a snare, and only create a desire for stimu-
lants.
	Indigestion is the prolific cause of colics,
diaarrhoea, headaches, constipation and many
diseases of the bladder. Food that is not
digested becomes powerfully acid, causing irri-
tation and inflammation wherever it touches.
Many fevers are caused by it. Pepsin is the
best remedy, if taken immediatly after eating.

[Column 2]

If pepsin is not taken, the acidity should be
controlled by bicorbonate of soda or potash.
	Eat only such things as agree with you, and
not too much at a time. By heeding the warn-
ings of your stomach many doctor's bills, and
even undertaker's too, may be avoided. Shun
feasts and big feeds. Give children plenty of
milk and bread, Graham or oatmeal crackers,
and good ripe fruit. They will not only thrive
on this diet but keep healthy.
	In every house there should be a little nook
in which a few simple remedies are kept.
Among them should be extract of ginger,
Dover's powder, peppermint, chlorate of potash,
bicarbonate of soda, sweet oil, paregoric, cam-
phor, arnica, a bottle of pure whisky, cotton, old
muslin for bandages, some sticking-plaster, a
box of ground mustard and some ready-made
plasters. Always strike a light when you go to
get any of these in the dark, and be sure you
have the right one.
	An observance of these suggestions will pay
well for the trouble.—Sparta Herald.


168	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

	As the invitation is general to reply to Mrs.
Scott, I will give a few of my views in regard
to the peculiar order of marriage believed in
and practised by our people.
	The "Mormon" women do not look at it as
the "Gentile" women do; they sincerely be-
lieve it to be revealed from God, for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the human family. It
is the foundation for health and purity. A
man marries several wives—pure, virtuous wo-
men, they understand it to be a sacred and
holy order. That husband keeps himself free
from such vices as prevail in the world—he
would no more associate himself with the vile,
than he would enter a den of poisonous vipers,
for he looks upon adultery as one of the great-
est sins a man can commit. The wives love
and respect the husband, and know him to be
a man of God, and they have confidence in his
chastity and honor, and they are happy in each
other's love. The children are born pure, and
are healthy and strong physically, It is the
pride of a "Mormon" wife to have a large fam-
ily of bright, intelligent children, and she de-
votes her time and attention to teaching her
little ones, in their earliest youth, the princi-
ples of virtue, truth, honesty and industry;
she considers this her highest mission upon
earth, and she takes delight and finds happi-
ness in the pleasing task.
	I wish every honest man and woman in the
world could visit one Sabbath School out of
the hundreds that are established in this Ter-
ritory, where these beautiful, blooming, happy,
contented children congregate on Sunday
morning to be instructed and to partake of the
Sacrament. They could not help saying in
their hearts at least, Where are the evils which
are the result of the practice of the order of
plural marriage?		SUSAN TERRY.


AN important installment of "woman's
rights" has been conceded in Switzerland, where
the law making both sexes of full legal age at
twenty-one came into force with the new year.
In many cantons the age of majority for men
was hitherto been as high as twent-six; and,
as women were altogether denied majority, no
matter how old they were, the number of
"wards" was very great. The duty of guar-
dianship in most cases devolved on the com-
munes, which have now been relieve of much
thankless labor; and for the future Swiss wo-
men, at home and abroad, whether unmarried,
married, or windows, will be civilly emancipated
on their twenty-first birthdays. In the town
of Saint Gall alone, fortunes to the amount of
upwards of ten millions of francs were trans-
ferred to women, formerly in wardship. under
the new law, on New Year's day.


AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.

	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
CHILDREN'S FINE SHOES,
in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home-Made SILK,
AT
CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK

	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by John C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 	Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No.17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feather, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS. ☜

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

