VOL. 10	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1881.	No. 6.


THE RIVER OF LIFE.

 BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The river of life
	With variety rife,
Bearing Vessels of every kind—
	Bound to deliver,
	To the Great Giver
The freightage none can leave behind:

	Often rough is it,
	Often cold is it,—
On! On! flowing river of Time!—
	Arks float upon it,
	Barks float upon it,—
On! On! to Eternity's clime!

	Alas! wrecks are there,
	The great and the fair,
That were sailing along in their pride!—
	Yet many find rest
	In a Haven so blest
Yes, the Haven where rest doth abide.

	I love thee great river!
	I thank God the giver,
That I sail on this river sublime!—
	God keep the argosies,
	With their rich merchandise,
All safe in the heavenly clime.

	Pray for them pray for them,
	Ferfently say for them,
May the great Pilot decree,
	Though deep in the Gulph stream
	O'er whelm'd it would surely seem,
At last in His Haven they'll be'!

	All hail to the river!
	Life's deep, mighty river!
The bold rushing river of Time!
	May each vessel be found
	Sea-worthy and sound,
Bearing freightage for Heaven's own clime!

	Our God is above
	The sweet God of love,
His spirit broods over the river?
	Row down life's stream
	Beneath His bright beam,
In the light and the love of such Giver!

Salt Lake City Aug. 3rd. 1881.


[Column 1]
"THE CITY OF THE SAINTS"

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Burton, the great traveler and historian of
the 19th century, visited Utah some few years
ago, and spent some time in Salt Lake City,
and afterwards wrote and published a large
volume of his travels, observations, and experi-
ences therein, and named his book "The City of
the Saints." Truth and common sense views of
all he saw, embellish its pages. Burton must
have possessed naturally a large heart, and a
broad brain, and his life of travel, his inter-
course with people of different nations, and his
experiences therein, had expanded still further
those noble organs, and rendered him, in his
views, and in his judgment cosmopolitan; the
Book is decidedly the finest and most just ac-
count that has ever been given by an "out-
sider;" his descriptions are graphic, and hu-
morous, and show that he had made a study of
that nucleus of the human family he found
located in this remote region; he viewed them
with the eye of a philosopher, if nothing high-
er, and had arrived at an extraordinary com-
prehension of the problem embodied in this
peculiar people, and candidly acknowledged

[Column 2]
that there was an under current, a Gulph-stream,
if you please, that was not fathomed by a cur-
sory view of the surface of things, etcetera.
The picture he drew of President Brigham
Young is most complimentary, and apprecia-
tive as a governor and a ruler; no low sar-
casm, or inuendo blurs its pages, it seems the
clear comprehension of his mind gave no room
for anything but truth, and he honestly por-
trayed the same. It is years since I read his
book but the spirit of it will never leave my
mind. I borrow Burton's title of his book for
my little essay, and feel I honor him by so
doing. It seems to me that every candid,
truthful mind cannot stand in this city, and
walk or ride through its environs without be-
ing singularly impressed with the conviction
that there is a spirit broods over it, breathes in
its atmosphere, encircles it daily and nightly,
intactible, invisible, yet impressing every mind
that is pure, venerative, and open to receive
its revealings. I remember the time when I
heard tales about this location that eclipsed
"The Arabian Nights," and indeed many
doubted whether it had a tangible existence, or
whether it was not a chimera of some visionary
romantic brain, on which "marvelousness"
over-ruled every other organ! But years have
passed, a little world has been gathered here,
explorers have come from the East and from the
West, the North and the South, and to-day
Salt Lake City, the metropolis of Utah, is as
well known all over the world as London,
the metropolis of England.
	On July 21st, 1847, six persons rode on to the
spot of ground around which now stands this
beautiful city, they were the "outriders" of the
Pioneers. They threw themselves from their
steeds, and weary and worn reclined on the
bosom of Mother Earth. My readers, I leave
you to imagine the unspeakable feelings of
those wanderers! It seems I can conjure them
very near the truth, though not one of the first
pioneers—all may well take lawfully that name
—pioneers all and each have been in their own
individuality, and feeelings of the same calibre
and nature, have more or less inflated every
one as they set foot on this consecrated
ground! What volumes might be written,
what romantic incidents, thoughts, feelings,
aspirations, what absolute devotion, might be
the subjects for these volumes, but I realize
there is assuredly a "Recording Angel," and I
glory in the conviction; glorious, mighty being
though he is, he has dropped many a tear over
the trials, the lacerating, soul-harrowing trials
of a true Latter-day Saint.
	But the city!! It is the beautiful city I took
pen in hand to endeavor to describe. When
those six human beings came upon this spot,
—not a tree, not a shrub, not a blade of grass
were seen—sage brush and the appearance of
an arid desert were all that met their eyes.
Then! and Now! What volumes might be
filled from the interim! It does seem to me
that a thinking mind, a business mind, that
does know something of how cities are laid out,
and then built, also that this people were com-
paratively a poor people—bone and sinew were
their capital, that they were an ignorant peo-
ple, that is, a man might be an artist, unac-
customed to rough work, he joins the Church,
he comes to the gathering place of the Saints.
	Utility is the watchword. Will he not feel
his ignorance when he finds no place for his
studio, no use for the fine arts? but he bravely
strips of his coat and takes the spade, or th

[Column 3]
mortar hod, and does his best and God helps
him. Blessed is the poor man who has been
used to labor, his trial here is comparatively
small. But I was marveling how intelligent
minds cannot see and feel, that there is a power
with this people that the world does not pos-
sess. I believe that many do see and feel all
this, but they wilfully shut their eyes, they
stop their ears, yea even "to the voice of the
charmer!" Yes indeed there is something
mysterious and singular in this obscure and
isolated people, and the homes that they have
built by "the sweat of their brow" with mea-
gre facilities, and small means of every sort,
cash at a premium, yet here stands a city to-
day of no mean pretensions. Here are some
beautiful mansions and lovely gardens, and
fruit and flowers in abundance. Here is go-
ing up our sublime Temple, the most unique,
the finest in every sense of the word, the most
stupendous of any building in the West. Or-
nament and embellishment had for years to
stand back, till utility had accomplished her
mission, but they have been peeping out all
the time like children waiting to be admitted
to the dessert.
	Now they stand out in bold relief, and every
year sees our city putting on her "singing
robes," and she will yet be the prima donna of
the political American Theatre. Our location
is said to be 4,000 feet above sea level, a per-
fect nest, most aptly called "The Great Basin,"
and hence we have a pure, rarified atmosphere,
calm, without supineness, bold without reck-
lessness, strong, without rage, and clear even to
marvelousness, and this will continue unbroken
for weeks, perhaps months; it is full of the ele-
ments of health, so much so, that none can long
remain sick; if persons with pulmonary disease
come here they are soon restored, or the grave
receives them; but if the constitution is good, res-
toration is certain. The high altitude causes
an increased action of the heart, and hence the
whole system responds to the impetus, and pro-
duces a change which on some individuals is
marvelous, especially upon the European.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The next Woman's Congress will be held in
Buffalo, October 19, 20, and 21, The topics
for discussion are, "Scientific Openings for Wo-
men.", by Miss Mary Watson Whitney, N.
Y.; "Outdoor Occupations; Sericulture, by
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance; "Factory Girls,"
by Mrs. Elizabeth Chace, R. Il; "Position, Oc
cupation and Culture of Indian Women," by
Miss Susette La Fleche. Neb.; Influence of
Foreign Study on American Girls," by Mrs.
Lucinda H. Stone, Mich; Political Education
of Women," by Miss Mary F. Eastman, Mass.,
Guardianship of Children, Status of the Moth-
er," by Mrs. Belva A Lockwood, D. C.; Work
of Women in the Reforms of the past Century,"
by Mrs. Lois G. Hufford, Ind.; Temperance,"
by Antoinette Brown Blackwell, N. J.; "Rescue
Work," by Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, England:
"The Ideal Home," by Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney,
Mass., "The Pursuit of Art," by Mrs. Sarah
W. Whitman, Mass.
	These topics cover a wide field, and will, no
doubt, receive the careful attention they de-
serve. Miss Ella E. Lapham, of Buffalo is at-
tending to all the arrangements in that city,
and acts as chief hostess.—Ex.	L.S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Lately in looking over some of my old letters
I found one written by my mother to her step-
mother who previous to marrying my Grandpa,
we had learned to call by the endearing name
of Aunt Fanny. She was then living in the
Town of Winchester Scott Co. Ill. She had got
this far on her journey from Kirtland to Mis-
souri when she heard of the Saints being driv-
en out. Grandpa left her there to go back in
company with my father to pay a visit to his
children in the state of New York where he
died soon after. The letter contains items that
may prove interesting to some of the old time
Saints particularly so to Bro. Evan Greene and
his wife Susan whom she speaks of; his mother
as well as Aunt Fanny were sisters to Presi-
dent Brigham Young. It was a daughter of
Bro. Evan Greene's who first edited our WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT. This letter is dated "Nau-
voo Feb. 16th, 1841. "Dear Mother:—I am glad
to hear from you once more that you are yet
alive and as comfortable as what you are. We
had anticipated much pleasure in having a
visit from you this winter but in this have been
disappointed, I still hope that you will come
the first opportunity. I have spent this day at
Bro. John P. Greene's; his children were all at
home and I had a good visit with them; but
there is a vacancy there, that never can be
filled. I have not been there before, since the
day that dear Sister Greene was buried. I re-
gretted that you could not have come before
she died, it would have been such a satisfaction
to her and you too, but do not cast any reflec-
tions upon yourself about it for I'm sure that
you would have come had it been in your pow-
er. Sister Greene and I had many a good visit
together since we came to Commerce; although
her health was so poor, yet I would sit down by
her bedside and we would take sweet counsel
together. We often wished that you were here
with us. She has now gone to rest and we
have nothing to regret but the loss of her so-
ciety which is very great. She had everything
for her comfort that she could have had, if
Brother Greene had been worth thousands and
you know he is one of the best nurses in the
world. Her children were all as kind as they
could be, especially Rhoda; she merits praise
from every beholder. I never saw such un-
ceasing care and tenderness as she manifested
for her mother during her whole sickness".
	"I shall not be particular to write all the news
as Evan and Susan can tell you more than I
can write.	*	*	*	I have not had
any news from Victor since receiving those
letters which I shall forward to you by Evan I
have perused them with great satisfaction and
feel perfectly reconciled and thankful that
father was there instead of here—If he had
died here, perhaps the children would have cast
reflections upon us for fetching him to this
sickly country; so I feel that it is all for the
best. As for myself and family we enjoy com-
fortable health this winter. I received a letter
from Heber last week bearing date of Dec. 12th
he and Brigham and the rest of the brethren
were usually well, with the exception of
George A. Smith, his lungs are so affected that
he raises blood; he is not able to preach. The
work is still rolling forth in mighty power and
persecution increasing as the work advances.
Heber says if things continue as they have for
a short time past, they shall been driven from
that land—Joseph has been afraid of it by
the spirit and has written for them to come
home in the spring. He says they will make
their escape and that is all".
	"I have many anxious feelings about them but
try to commit them into the hands of the Lord
and look forward with anticipation to the time
when we shall meet and rejoice together. We

[Column 2]
have many things to cheer and gladden our
hearts while sojourning in this vale of tears.
The Lord is again revealing his will to the
Church through his servant Joseph; there has
been a very lengthy revelation given of late
concerning the building up of this place; also
concerning all the different Quorums in the
Church. The Lord says there has been a day
of calling and now cometh a day of choosing—
I understand that the revelation is to be read
at the April Conference. I hope that you will
be here. I must now close as I have promised
Helen one page to write you.
		Yours affectionately, Vilate Kimball.
	On the 6th, of April 1841 the corner-stones
of the Nauvoo Temple were laid which I had
the privilege of witnessing,—it was a day the
Saints had anxiously looked for and was ushered
in by peals of artillery calling together the
Nauvoo Legion consisting of fourteen com-
panies and two volunteer companies of militia
from Iowa. The military were first reviewed
by Lieutenant General Joseph Smith then the
procession was formed, and marched to the
Temple grounds in the following order, which
I copy. Lieut. General Smith, Brig. Generals
Law and Smith, aides-de-camp and conspicu-
ous strangers, general staff; 2nd, Cohort (in-
fantry) ladies eight abreast, gentlemen eight
abreast, 1st. Cohort (cavalry.)
	The oration was delivered by President Rig-
don. The S. E., corner was laid by the First
Presidency; the S. W., by President Don C.
Smith and his Counselors of the High Priest
Quorum; the N. W., by the High Council. re-
presenting the Twelve Apostles who were in
Great Britain; and the N. E., corner by the
Bishops. The vast assembly then separated,
the whole having passed off in harmony and
no contention or discord having appeared."
A great many strangers from other parts were
present on this occasion and all lost sight of
their prejudices and entered into the enjoy-
ment of it with the Saints.
	On the 1st day of July my father with Presi-
dent Young and Brother John Taylor arrived
home from their mission; the families of the
latter who were left in Montrose sick, were then
living in Nauvoo on the Flat enjoying a more
comfortable degree of health. My brother,
who was still living at the landing was the first
to meet and embrace my father. The Prophet
and many more were there ready to greet and
welcome them home again, Joseph would have
them go home with him to dinner and William
hastened home to tell us the same; we thought
this almost an unkindness for it seemed so long
a time to us who were waiting and watching
with impatience to see him but soon we discov-
ered a company of horsemen coming with all
speed and when my mother saw them she made
a hasty retreat behind the door to hide her
confusion, where in a moment after father found
her overwhelmed in tears. Joseph it seemed
had ordered several horses to be saddled while
they were eating and by the time dinner was
served, which was a hasty one, the horses were
at the door and he with Brother Hyrum and
three or four brethren accompanied my father
home. My mother felt the presence of others
at such a time almost an intrusion but Brother
Joseph seemed unwilling to part with my father;
and from that time kept the Twelve in Coun-
cil early and late, and she sometimes felt nearly
jealous of him but never dreamed that he was
during those times revealing to them the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage and that her trials
and sacrifices which she had flattered herself
were nearly over, had scarcely begun, and they
little realized the meaning of his words when
he said "he was rolling off the kingdom from
his own shoulders on to the shoulders of the
Twelve."
	A few days after their return to Nauvoo their
Prophet's Brother Don Carlos Smith died, and
being an officer in the Legion as well as a Free

[Column 3]
Mason he was buried with Masonic and Mili-
tay rites. Those of the Masonic fraternity
marched next to the family to the grave which
was in a little grove at the foot of the hill
south west of the Temple. My mother's baby
being too sick for her to leave I went in her
stead and marched with my father in the Mas-
onic procession; and may I be pardoned for
saying it, but when he gave me his arm as we
started from home that Sabbath morn I felt
justly proud of the honor of walking with so fine
a looking gentleman as was my father and not
only that, but knowing that his constant humil-
ity and faithfulness to his duty, had won for
him the love and confidence of the Prophet and
all who knew him. Besides the sorrowing
family of Bro. Don Carlos he had a host of
sincere mourners and I felt deeply impressed
by the grand and imposing ceremonies that I
witnessed that day. The Legion and a large
procession of citizens formed hear the Temple,
and as they marched in slow and solemn order
to the house of the dead the Martial Band with
muffled drum beat to the notes of a dead
march.
	The following from Sister E.R. Snow's Poem
describes the scnen.

"I gazed upon the grand procession, till
It disappear'd amid the dwellings which
Stand thickly cluster'd near the river's edge.
I listened! all was still the music notes
No longer sounded on the pensive breeze:
But hark! the notes awaken'd, and I saw
The mighty host returning with the same
Slow, melancholy tread! A hearse was borne
Along with solemn yet bold martial pomp,
That plainly signified a MIGHTY ONE.
One of no ordinary rank, had fallen!

*		*		*		*		*		*

In nature's temple with no other wall
Than the horizon, and no other arch
Than the broad canopy of heaven shaded
With clust'ring boughs whose foliage waves around,
Is rais'd an altar to the living God.
There the procession march'd; it halted there.
And in the front of weeping relatives,
The hearse of him was plac'd who there in life
Had been a fervent constant worshiper.
His arms and armor on his coffin lay,
And other swords than his lay crossing there,
His brother officers, who form'd with him
The noblest military staff our fair
Columbia has to boast, were seated by,
In shining armor clad."

	In the morning I remember that the sky had
looked somewhat thretening but it cleared away
until near the close of the service, dark clouds
began to gather over the city, and as the pro-
cession was again forming to follow his remains
to their last resting place, the rain fell in tor-
rents but this did not prevent us from standing
by his grave while his brethren, one by one
deposited therein a green bough, as a last tri-
bute of respect to one, whose life had been free
from blemish, and whom Zion deeply mourned.

To be continued.


GREEK MONUMENT.﻿

	A London paper, "The Ladies Pictorial"
announces in its last issue, something of the
following:—Probably it is well known that the
Heart of Lord Byron was buried at Missi-
longhi, where he died, and now on that very
spot a monument is being erected to the im-
mortal Poet! It is to consist of a Statue
covered in Pentelic marble by the eminent
Sculptor Vitalis of Syracuse; a large sum of
money has been secured for the purpose and as
the monument is intended to be a memorial of
Hellenic gratitude to one who gave his song, his
life for Greece—so only Greeks have been
allowed to contribute to the fund.
	So Harold ends in Greece his last Pilgrim-
age.	H. T. K.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEONA.

BY JAMES G. CLARK

	Competent literary critics have pronounced the follow-
ing poem unsurpassed by any other production of its
class in our language. It is perfect in rhyme, beautiful
in figure and expression:

Leona, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we've waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky,
That my spirit may break from its prison and try
	lts voice in an infinite song.

Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o'er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
Those windows which look on the kingdom of light
	That borders the river of death.

And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a morning-lit land;
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
And I heard the low lull as they broke at their feet
	Who walked on the beautiful strand.

And I wondered why spirits could cling
	To their clay with a struggle and sigh
When life's purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.

Leona, come close to my bed,
	And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrill'd me in days that are fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.

We have lived from the cold world apart,
	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o'erthrow; when the slanderer's dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
	I was dearer than ever to you.

I thank the great Father for this,
	That our love is not lavished in vain;
Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that we kiss
	Never shrink at the shadow of pain.

By the light of this faith am I taught
	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has caught
	The gleam of Eternity's sun.

Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside, and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
The twilight advances through woodland and wold,
	And the dews are begining to weep.

The moon's silver hair lies uncurled
	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
The sunset's red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o'er the plains of the world,
	And shall rise in a limitless way.

O! come not in tears to my tomb,
	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.

Yet deeply those memories burn
	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being would
		yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home to return
	And visit the home of its birth,

'Twould even be pleasant to stay
	And walk by your side till the last:
But the land-breeze of heaven is beginning to play—
Life shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
	And its tumult is hushed in the past.

Leona, good-by; should the grief
	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief,
	O'er lowland and river to me.


THE Spanish government has issued a decree
permitting the Jews to return to Spain. This
concession has been granted at the suggestion
of an influential Israelite to the Spanish minis-
ter at Constantinople.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN
	ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
		CONTINUED
	Sister Eliza entered upon her duties as su-
perintendent of the Woman's Store immedi-
ately after the October Conference, 1876, and
by her careful and prudent management and
her practical executive ability, succeeded in
establishing without money, a home manufac-
ture mercantile department, which still exists
as proof positive of her eminent success in this
line of labor. President Young fully acknow-
ledged she had done what he had been trying
for years to get one or more of the brethren to
do, but could not persuade them to undertake
it without capital. Sister Eliza thus demon-
strated the fact that women have faith and
courage to undertake what men would consider
a hopeless enterprise. Goods were sold on
commission, lady clerks were employed, and a
lady sat at the desk and kept the books. Sis-
ter Eliza not only looked after the minutest
details of work, but actually performed some
of the real labor herself.
	During this year she had also much literary
labor to do. Her second volume of poems was
about to be published, and required some time
and attention, and in the autumn of the same
year arrangements were made to publish a
book containing sketches of Mormon women.
The money was to be furnished in shares by
Relief Societies or individuals as the case
might be. Sister Eliza set about the work in
good earnest. There were writings to be
gathered up, as well as money to be collected,
and manuscript to read and revise, requiring
not only considerable labor, but a great deal
of tact, discrimination and judgment. She
read and prepared many hundreds of pages of
all kinds of writing for Mr. E.W. Tullidge, to
cull and select from afterwards and work into
the book he was writing, to be called "The Wo-
men of Mormondom," and when the type set-
ting commenced she was expected to give all
the proof one reading at least. Let the reader
remember this work was done while Sister
Eliza was superintending the store, from eight
o'clock in the morning until six in the evening
daily. This constant employment hindered
her from traveling among the settlements as
much as formerly, but she still kept up her
regular work in the House of the Lord, weekly
or semi-weekly and also attended meetings in
the city and suburbs from time to time.
	Early in the year 1877 the two books upon
which the lady had been so arduously engag-
ed during the winter evenings, were sent to
press. Her second "Volume of Poems" here
in the Deseret News Office and the "Women
of Mormondom" in New York City. Both
works contain a steel engraving of the lady,
executed in New York, with her autograph,
Eliza R. Snow, beneath the picture.
	The book of Poems was very delicately dedi-
cated to Brigham Young, the dedication being
in verse; but two months after, and while the
manuscript of the poems was still in the hands
of the printers, Brigham Young passed behind
the veil, and the same volume finishes with a
poem entitled "Funeral of President Brigham
Young," which is touchingly sublime in its
description of that solemn and imposing occa-
sion. We give here a few extracts:
		*	*	*	*	*
"From morn till noon, the body lay in State
And thousands came, a tribute of respect
To pay, and take a last—a parting view
Of the illustrious dead.
				The funeral rites
Were on the Sabbath day. At service hour,
The spacious tabernacle densely filled
Was thronged by anxious multitudes without:

[Column 2]
Within one vacant chair remained
Enrobed in folds of solemn drapery
		*	*	*	*	*	*
"But men of God were there—men who had 'borne
With him, the heat and burden of the day.'
Apostles, Prophets, Revelators, Seers,
Brave, noble men, whose hearts had never quailed;
Who knew no fear when times were perilous,
But now, when speaking of their leader's worth—
Their love for him—their loss and Zion's loss;
The firm lip quiver'd and the dew of grief,
Beneath their eyelids gathered. Strong men wept."
	*		*		*		*
"All Israel were mourners; but the corse
Was followed by a num'rous weeping train
Of those, by dear and filial ties, his own."
	*		*		*		*
"Ne'er was a father more affectionate
Nor yet an earthly father more beloved."
	*		*		*		*
"He loved his people. Their high destiny.
Will be a monument to Brigham Young."

	A short time previous to the death of Pres.
Young, 'The Women of Mormondom," on
which Sister Eliza had spent much precious
time and to publish which she had used her
influence with the Relief Societies, was issued.
Pres. Young had the opportunity of examining
the book and expressing his opinion of the
value of the publication. He had an inter-
esting conversation with Sister Eliza upon the
matter the evening before he was seized with his
last sickness, and manifested a great in-
terest in the work which appeared to him to be
opening up for women in the world. He sug-
gested that a number of the sisters should go
but into the world and speak upon the plat-
form advocating the principles of our faith and
named one or two suitable persons for the lec-
ture field.
	Sister Eliza has always interceded for the
good of the women of Utah, whom she so ably
represents, and often when she might have
enjoyed pleasant associations on her own ac-
count, such as every woman naturally desires,
she sacrificed it for the sake of benefiting
others and promoting the advancement of the
work for woman's higher culture and progres-
sion, instead of her own personal interests.
Such has always been her life and character.
Sister Eliza, by her unbounded faith in the
capacity of women and by prompt and ener-
getic action at any and all times when possible,
has greatly influenced the destiny of "Mormon"
women; how much so, will probably never be
known.
			To be continued.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE are given to understand that the Princess
Louise of Lorne is the composer of the new set
of valses on old Scotch airs, published under
the name of Louise Campbell.
	M'DLLE SARAH BERNHARDT already gives
out that she intends to make a second tour in
America by-and-bye, when she hopes to play to
the Americans in their own language. She is
now hard at her English studies.
	THE Rev. Timothy Flint used to say that,
"If this world is ever to become a better and
happier world, Woman, properly enlightened,
aware of her influence, and disposed to exert it
aright, must be the prime mover in the great
work."
	Is M. Gambetta about to declare on the side
of Woman's Rights? It would seem so, from a
speech of his at the Trocadero in which the
following passage occurs:—"Without exaggera-
tion, it is certain, gentlemen, that reforms ought
to be introduced into our legislation which
shall give to woman all her prestige, all her
authority, all her rights, and the power to ex-
ercise them."


44	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	AUGUST 15, 1881.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	THE August election is over. The votes have
been cast and counted. The members of the
Legislature and other officers nominated, have
been elected. Who did the voting? A few of
the registered voters of the People's party.
Who attended the Primary meetings in the
several precincts?  A very few men, scarcely
any women, barely enough to transact the ne-
cessary business, viz., to elect the given num-
ber of delegates to form a County Convention.
Is this right? Is it consistent with the princi-
ples of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness"
about which we hear so much said? We think
not! Have women no interest at stake in these
matters. Have they no homes to guard, nor
families whose future well-being is dearer to
them than their own life? Here is an oppor-
tunity opened for woman to exercise a privilege
which gives her power in the government. Is
it possible that women of intelligence, women
who have had great experiences and great know-
ledge of right and wrong, of injustice and oppres-
sion, can hold such grand responsibilities light-
ly? It is a matter of wonder and astonishment.
Is it even good policy to be indifferent to one's
highest interests in times of peace and prosper-
ity? Assuredly not. "Eternal vigilance is the
price of liberty." Would that these grand words
were framed in large and glittering letters, and
hung upon the walls in the home of every
family, that they might be ever present in the
minds of the household. Are not those who
sit at their ease and do not attend to the duties
which devolve upon them in the common walks
of life culpable? Freedom is a precious boon;
it is worth making strenuous efforts to retain,
indeed it is worth almost any sacrifice. Then
why this lethargy in regard to voting? Is it for
want of thought? In this Territory, where the
privilege has been granted women of exercising
the right of franchise, and with all the teaching
and instruction that has been given from time
to time, verbal and written, it is remarkable
that women do not comprehend the power
which is in their hands for good, and come for-
ward in their united strength and help main-
tain the rights; which will secure to them and
those they love, and their children, the homes
and the liberty of which in times past they
have been so unjustly deprived; yes, when they
had not the opportunity of representation they
now enjoy. Women of Utah! do you reflect
upon these things? Do you appreciate the bless-
ing of the ballot? If you do, why do you not
manifest it by your works? Have you no rights
to maintain? Have you no apprehension of
danger from neglect of these duties?
	Then, again, how few comparatively of those
who are foreign-born become citizens. It
seems unaccountable, that knowing as they

[Column 2]

must know, how important a thing it is to be a
citizen of the United States, one could be con-
tent until he or she had taken the necessary
steps towards naturalization. Be advised and
step forward, that you may not be held respon-
sible for any neglect of duty in political matters;
for be sure they have a bearing upon your best
interests; your homes, your rights, your liberty
and all that makes life happy or desirable.
Arouse yourselves; read and reflect. Take pains
to become enlightened upon these subjects, and
see if they are not of more consequence to you
than many of the things about which you take
so much trouble, and upon which you spend so
much time. Some may ask do men need the
help of women in political affairs? Are they
not disgusted with women who push them-
selves forward in public meetings? This is not
a question of preference as we understand the
matter. It is an imperative duty. The women
of Utah understand how the the suffrage was
bestowed upon them—and knowing this, as they
do, can they for one moment think, they are
not called upon to exercise that right? We
have sufficient confidence in the character of
men to believe they respect women most, who
respect themselves; who regard their rights as
sacred, whether political or otherwise; who
would exert their utmost influence to protect
their homes, and maintain the institutions of
freedom, which every free-born man and woman
in possession of ordinary intelligence holds dear-
er than life itself.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 REMINDER: Relief Society Stake Secretaries
are expected to forward semi-annual reports to
September 15th, 1881, for the approaching Con-
ference.
 THE Secretaires of the several Branch Relief
Societies of this Stake, will please send in their
reports no later than the 5th of September, 1881.
Direct to, ELIZABETH HOWARD, Stake Sec'y.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son expect to leave this city for the East about
the 20th inst.  We wish them a pleasant jour-
ney and trust they may do much good where-
ever they  may have an opportunity of speaking
in public or in private.
	The Children's Fair for Salt Lake County
Primary Associations will be held in this city
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, September
15, 16, and 17, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors and assist-
ants.  There will be no charge made except the
price of admission to visitors, which will be for
adults 10 cents, under 12 years of age 5cts.  All
the associations are invited to bring specimens
of work.  It is anticipated that this Fair will be
held in the Social hall.
 CLASSES in Obstetrics: Dr. R. B. Pratt's class
in this branch of the medical profession, consist-
ing of six ladies have just finished their course
of study and lectures, and passed their examina-
tion satisfactorily, with credit to themselves and
the Dr.  The ladies are Elizabeth M. Jones,
South Cotton Wood, Sarah J. Banks, Spanish
Fork, Jane M. Howell, Clifton, Idaho. Lucy
Ann H. Woolf, Hyde Park. M. E. G. Vanschoo-
ven and Lucy Pratt Russell of this city.  The lad-
ies were blest and set apart for their professional
work, Saturday, August 13th, by President Jos-
eph F. Smith and counselor Daniel H. Wells.
	Their certificates are signed by Doctors Ellen
B. Ferguson and Romania B. Pratt.  These
sisters are going out among the people to enter
practically with due appreciation of its import-
ance upon this work.  They are women of experince
and accustomed to attending upon the sick.


THE following notice from the "San Francisco
Chronicle" was received, with a card bearing the
compliments of the lady and gentleman and a
pretty Japanese napkin, fine and soft as crape.
The lady is the daughter of Judge W. W. Phelps
(deceased) and an occasional contributor to the
EXPONENT.
		A TIN WEDDING.
	Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Lane were agreeably sur-
prised at their residence, No. 404 Capp street,
on Saturday evening last by a large party of
friends, who reminded them that they intended
to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their wed-
ded life by showering on the still youthful
couple a varied assortment of tinware, sufficient
in quantity to sink a ship. Prominent among the
presents were a large tin cradle, a complete din-
ner service, also of tin, on which the surprisers
afterwards served a bountiful collation, and a
gigantic tin star, emblematic of Mr. Lane's con-
nection with the Police Department. After do-
ing justice to the good things provided a most en-
joyable evening was spent by the assembled
guests in exchanging reminiscences of the past,
dancing, singing, etc.


UNIVERSITY OF DESERET.

	The first Term of the Academic Year 1881-82
of the University will begin Monday, August
22d, at 9 A. M., in the University building.
	In addition to the regular courses of study,
classes will be formed in French, German, and
in Music and Harmony under the tuition of Mr.
A. Andre: and others, also, in Drawing and in
Painting, under the tuition of Mr. W. Armitage.
	For circulars, or further information relative
to the Institution, address,John R. Park, Pre-
sident of Faculty.


FINE SPECIMEN OF UTAH SILK.

	PAUL A. Schettler, Esq., of this city, has
shown us a very superior quality of silk goods
manufactured from the cocoons raised at his
farm south-east of the city. Mrs. Josephine
Schettler (deceased) raised the cocoons and
reeled the silk from which it was made; it was
doubled and twisted at the new silk factory, a
little way up City Creek Canyon. Not being able
to get the silk woven here, Bro. Schettler sent it
East some time ago, and the work was done at
Patterson, New Jersey. The cloth is 33 inches in
width, very superior in quality, and is pure in
fabric, unlike the imported silk, which always
contains some proportion of other material.
These two pieces of silk are by far the most ele-
gant we have seen of the home raised article.
One is plain grey and the other is a handsome
brocade.


COFFIN RE-UNION.

MBS. ELMIRA P. TUFT.

	DEAR MADAM: Your letter and the one from
Prof. Barfoot, apprising me that specimens of
your vast wealth of minerals had been forward-
ed for the benefit of the Coffin Re-union, were
duly received. The box arrived the following
day, and the specimens appear to be in very
good order. Please accept through me (as far
as I am able to express the sentiments of the
association,) its profound gratitude to you for so
kindly remembering it in so generous a gift.
	I am very truly yours,
				ALLEN COFFIN,
						Secretary T. C. R. A.
	P. S.—I personally very much regret that we
shall not have your presence and that of your
family at the Re-union, but we shall remember
you kindly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

		ELIZA WOODS WALLIN.

	"Yet less of sorrow lives in me
	For days of happy commune dead;
	Less yearning for the friendship fled,
	Than some strong bond which is to be.”

	It is always painful to record the death of
those we love and particularly sad when the cir-
cumstances are harrowing. A mother in the
prime of life taken from the bosom of her fami-
ly seems lamentable, yet God's ways are not as
our ways and we can only bow our heads in
meek submission and say, "Thy will not mine
be done O Lord,"

	"And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we will say, 'God knew the best.'"

	Mrs. Eliza Woods Wallin, whose death occur-
red in this city at ten minutes past six o'clock
Wednesday morning, August 3d, 1881, was the
beloved wife of C. E. Wallin and only sister of
Major W. W. Woods, also the neice of Counselor
D. H. Wells. Mrs. Wallin died of puerperal
peritonitis, one week after her confinement, and
left an infant daughter which only survived the
mother two days. The deceased lady was the
daughter of James and Catherine Wells Woods,
and was born in Burlington, Iowa, February 10,
1843, and was aged 38 years, five months and 23
days at the time of her death. Mrs. Wallin
came to Utah previous to her marriage in the
spring of 1872, and has resided here ever since.
She was married to C. E. Wallin in October
of the same year, and has been the mother of
four children, three daughters and one son.
Three of them live to miss the love and atten-
tion of as kind and devoted a mother as ever
lived. They are too young as yet to realize the
dreadful loss they have sustained.

				"There is none,
In all this cold and hollow world, no fount
Of deep strong deathless love, save that within
A mother's heart!"

	Mrs. Wallin was indeed a tender, watchful,
solicitous mother, a true and affectionate wife,
a wise, prudent and efficient counselor to her
husband. She was amiable and exemplary in
character, and greatly endeared herself to her
relatives and friends for the many estimable
qualities of heart and mind which she possessed.
The lady has an aged father residing in Ham-
burg, Iowa, who will be deeply affected by her
sudden death. Mrs. Wallin was tenderly cared
for in her last illness by her brother's wife, Mrs.
W. W. Woods, assisted by other dear friends.
	The funeral was held in St. Mark's Church on
Thursday, at four o'clock p.m., Rev. Mr. Kirby
officiating. The hymn "Nearer my God to
Thee," was very beautifully rendered by the
choir. Mrs. Wallin was buried by the side of
her brother, N. P. Woods, Esq., who died in
this city a few years ago. On Saturday morn-
ing, Aug. 7, the grave of Mrs. Wallin was open-
ed and her infant daughter, Mabel Blanche, was
placed in the tomb with her mother.
	There are many dear relatives and friends
here and elsewhere who will sincerely mourn
the death of the dear departed one. May hea-
ven bless the bereaved family and especially the
little ones so early deprived of a loving mother's
care and tenderness.			E. B. W.


A GOOD MAN  GONE TO REST.

 Died at his residence in the 20th Ward, Salt
Lake City, Thursday morning, August 4th, 1881,
at six o'clock, Elder William C. Staines, who for
many years has held the important position of
emigration agent for the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.  Bro. Staines has been ill
for some months, but only recently confined to
his bed.  His sufferings were very great, seem-
ing to be a complication of diseases which baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians.
	Deceased was born on the 26th day of Septem-
ber, 1818, at Higham Ferries, Northamptonshire,
England, and had nearly attained his 63d year.
 Bro. Staines has been a member of this
Church ever since the days of his youth.  He
first heard the gospel in his native land when
he was scarcely twenty-three years old and was
baptized a year afterwards.  He gathered with
the Saints at Nauvoo, in April, 1843.  He passed
through the trials of the eventful days which
subsequently took place, and left that beautiful
city with the first company of exiles in the dead
of winter, in 1846.
 While journeying westward with the Saints,
after the famous Mormon Battalion had started
for Mexico, a small company was fitted out to
make an effort to cross the Rocky Mountans be-
fore the winter should set in.  Bro. Staines was
one of that number.  President Young after-
wards deciding it would not be practicable for
them to proceed the entire distance, advised them
to winter on Grand Island, a few miles west of
the Platte River.  However the little company
were visited by some Ponca chiefs who invited
them to winter with their camp.  The Ponca
Indians were about to start for their winter
hunting-ground and some of the brethren were
invited to join them.  Bro. Staines was one of
that number; he accepted the mission, for such
it was, and during that, to him, memorable
time, he experienced not only hardship, fatigue,
sickness and privation, but most wonderful
manifestations of the power of God.  He arrived
in the valley in September, 1847, with the
pioneer companies of families who followed the
first pioneers.  He was sent on a mission to his
native land in 1859 and had charge of the Lon-
don Conference until the spring of 1863. In
that year he commenced his labors in New
York as agent for the emigration, which position
he left to return home on account of his failing
health this season.
 He was a man of sterling integrity, and un-
bounded faith in the principles of the gospel and
the work of the latter-day dispensation. His
eminent ability to transact business and his po-
liteness, courtesy and kindness to all classes of
people, his shrewdness, tact and excellent judg-
ment are all abundantly proven from the fact,
that for the eighteen years he managed the
emigration affairs, having immigrated 50,000
people, he has had no difficulty of any kind,
although he transacted business with railroad
men, steamship companies, and dealt with peo-
ple of all nations, yet he was held in the high-
est esteem and won the respect and friendship of
many thousands, by his affability of manner,
his amiability and uprightness of character and
his untiring patience for the good and well
being of others.  Too much cannot be sa-d in
his praise; he was a man of fine education and a
high order of intelligence which rendered him a
pleasant and entertaining companion to all
with whom he was associated.  There are thou-
sands to bless his honored name had reverently
cherish his memory for his many kindly deeds
of unostentatious charity.  He was fondly at-
tached to home and fireside companionship, and
his refined taste was apparent in the exquisite
though simple elegance of his houses and
grounds which he was every year improving.
He was a natural horti- and flori-culturist, and
his home surroundings were ever an attraction
to all, as well as an ornamentation to the city.
	Brother Staines had many warm friends who
sincerely mourn his absence, but he has passed
to endless life, and joined the hosts of those who
await the first resurrection, many of whom he
knew and loved upon the earth.
 We deeply sympathize with his bereaved
household, and pray that they may be com-
forted in their loneliness by the Holy Spirit and
the assurances which the gospel imparts to all
who obey its precepts and endure faithful unto
the end of the race.
	"Weep not for him that dieth,
	For he wath ceased from tears,
	And a voice to his replieth-
	Which he hath not heard for years."
 The funeral of Elder Staines was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday, August
5th, at three o'clock p. m., when Pres. Joseph F.
Smith preached an eloquent and consoling fu-
neral discourse.  The magnificent walnut coffin
was delicately decorated with lovely flowers, of
which the deceased was such an appreciative ad-
mirer, and a star and crescent ingeniously woven
of the the choicest white flowers adorned the cen-
tre of the casket.  Hundreds of people in car-
riages followed the remains of Br. Staines to the
cemetry.
 Though absent he will not be forgotten, but
the rememberance of his generous deeds and no
ble life will live forever in the hearts of those
who knew and loved him.			E.B.W.


SARAH SHIPLEY.

		"Whom the gods love die young."
	DIED in Brighton, of heart disease, at the re-
sidence of Major Stephen B. Rose, at six o'clock
a. m., August 5, Sarah Shipley, aged 22 years,
three months and two days. Deceased was the
daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Shipley, well
known in this Territory, and was born at Amer-
ican Fork, Utah Co., May 3d, 1859; was baptized
when eight years old, and about a year ago re-
ceived her endowments in the House of the
Lord. She was a girl of great faith and estima-
ble in character, gentle, affable and kind; she
won all hearts, and was never known to have a
single enemy. She was a wise and able coun-
selor in her father's family and could always
comprehend well the condition of affairs, and
judge correctly. In her last illness she called
for the Elders, and was often administered to.
She called all her fathers' family around her pre-
vious to her departure, which she knew to be
imminent, and gave them each advice and
counsel, beseeching them to continue faithful to
the gospel, and keep the Spirit of the Lord. She
had no fear of death, but the utmost confidence
in her Heavenly Father's love.
	Her remains were taken to American Fork
on Saturday, the 6th inst., and on Sunday the
funeral services were held in the meeting house
in that city. Bishop Harrington and Elder
Whittaker were the speakers. Miss Shipley
was buried by the side of her little sister Eliza
in the American Fork graveyard. We deeply
sympathize with the sorrowing family, while
we are assured that with Sarah all is well.
	E. B. W.


A REMINISCENCE.

WINTER QUARTERS.

	Shortly after the settlement at Winter Quar-
ters, I do not remember the date, living next to
the Historian's Office, I had the privilege of
seeing a copy of a vision, President Young had
at that time and being permitted to take items
from it, I copied what I felt would be a com-
fort and benefit to me on my long journeying,
about to take place, for I was about to visit
England my native land, with my husband who
was going upon a mission, and I felt I needed
something to say to the people. I give it here


as near as possible having copied it from the
original manuscript.
	Joseph stepped towards me and looking very
earnestly, yet pleasantly said, "Tell the people
to be humble and faithful, and be sure to keep
the spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them
right; be careful and not turn away the still
small voice: it will teach you how to do and
where to go; it will yield the fruits of the king-
dom: Tell the brethren to keep their hearts
open to convicton so that when the Holy Ghost
comes to them, their hearts will be ready to re-
ceive it, They can tell the Spirit of the Lord
from other spirits; it will whisper peace, and
joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred,
strife and all evil from their hearts; and their
whole desire will be to do good, bring forth
righteousness and build up the kingdom of God.
Tell the brethren if they will follow the Spirit
of the Lord they will go right.
	Be sure to tell the people to keep the Spirit of
the Lord and if they will, they will find them-
selves just as they were organized by our Father
in Heaven, before they came into the world.
Our Father in Heaven organized the human
family, but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion." Joseph then showed me the
pattern, how they were in the beginning. This
I cannot describe; but I saw it, and saw when
the Priesthood had been taken from the earth,
and how it must be joined together so as to make
a perfect chain from Father Adam to his latest
posterity. Tell the people to be sure to keep the
Spirit of the Lord, and follow it, and it will lead
them just right."
	It seemed that Brother Young was shown
into a place where he saw Joseph sitting a little
higher than the floor where he stood, with some
persons around him, but being so overjoyed to
see Joseph he went straight to salute him when
he found a barrier of some kind which pre-
vented him approaching nearer. Joseph said,
you cannot come now, but must wait awhile
till your work is done; and then conversed a
good while with him concerning events past and
to come, when about to leave, he, Brigham,
asked Joseph what he should say to the people
from him, upon which the piece I have now
copied from the manuscript was the answer.
								S. G. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

		BELLEVUE PRIMARY.

﻿	When Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and Zina
D. Young, passed through Bellevue on their
way north last March, they called the few
families who are here together ([-]ix in number)
and organized the Primary and Relief Societies.
Twenty children's names appeard on the roll,
but only about ten or twelve attend; s[-]me be-
ing mere babies. During the few months w[-]ich
have passed, much has been accomplished
comparatively speaking. Through donations
the sum of $3.40, has been put in the Treasury;
$3.10 having been spent for books and tracts
leaving 30 cts. in the Treasury. The tiny
library contains eighteen books and tracts; be-
sides which, each child has a Primary Hymn
Book. The meetings are held on Sunday
morning, presided over by Mrs. Mary W. Gates,
and although never having had any previous
experience in this line, Sister Gates has a nat-
ural aptitude and an attractive motherly way
with the children, which eminently fit her for
the place she occupies. I must say I admire
her practical way of giving the little ones ideas
that they can lay hold of, instead of boreing
them with abstruse subjects and preaching
that they cannot understand. The usual
programme is carried out and although not cul-
tivated in music herself her children are
natural muscians and singing is one of the prin-
cipal features. Minutes are strictly kept and

[Column 2]
the President tells me a good record-book is
an aim for the near future. The writings of
E. R. Snow Smith and the little pamphlet of
Hannah T. King's Women of the Scripture,
are read weekly to the little ones. Also "Gems"
"My First Mission" &c. &c. A little Jubilee
was planned and executed by the Pres., and
Association for the Faculty and Twenty-
Fourth, which was the first thing of the kind
ever attempted in this settlement. Programme
of the Twenty-Fourth: Song, Joseph Smith's
First Prayer, by the children, prayer by Elder
Jacob Gates, song "In our lovely Deseret," by
four little girls; all the children joining in the
chorus, dialogue by Luella Hanks and Claude
Gates, recitation by George Anderson; song
"Put me in my little bed" by three little ones—
Dancing—song. "Here we stand, hand in hand,"
by five little ones from two years old to five,
recitations, by four little girls, recitation by
Minnie Gates, recitation by Irona Hanks.
	The children having done their part most
prettily Elder Jocob Gates was invited to sing,
which he did rendering the song "The old oak"
with much spirit and vigor. Brother and
Sister Goold followed with "hard times" and
Bro. and Sister Sylvester with another
song, and Bro. McDougall with a recita-
tion.	The picnic supper followed and
full justice was done to the excellent viands,
after which Master Claude Gates sang "We
are the children of the Saints, the children
all singing the chorus, and Bro. Sylvester closed
with prayer. Thus ended a spirited, pleasant
entertainment, showing what energy and tact
can accomplish when guided by the Spirit of
God.
				SUSA YOUNG GATES.

		     BEAVER STAKE.

	The R.S., of Beaver held their Quart-
erly Conference at Minersville, on the fifteenth,
of July. Sister L. Howd presiding. There
was a good attendance of brethren and sisters
from the other settlements. After the opening
exercises the morning was occupied with the
reading of reports, and some excellent instruc-
tions from the sisters. In the afternoon Bishop
McKnight and other brethren made some
cheering and instructive remarks, commending
the sisters for their diligence in well doing. A
spirit of love and union prevailed, which
exist nowhere but among the Saints. The so-
cieties throughout the County were reported in
a prosperous condition, the members all feeling
to rejoice in the blessings they possess through
the goodness of God.
				E. A. FARNSWORTH, Sec'y

	     PRIMARY CONFERENCE

	The Salt Lake Stake Primary Conference
was held in the Assembly Hall in this city
Saturday morning, June 18th, Mrs. Ellen C.
S. Clawson presiding. Opened by singing,
"We thank thee O, God for a prophet." Prayer
by Mrs. M. Isabella Horne. Singing "Children
do you love each other." Minutes of previous
Conferen[-]e read and accepted. Verbal reports
given from [-]he 3d, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 1[-]h, 18th, 19th, 20th, and 21st,
Wards of the ci[--]. Singing by the children at
intervals during the time the reports were be-
ing given. Seven or [-]ight little girls sung
"Hope of Israel" and ag[-]in "Come and join
our army." This was done [---] order that the
meeting might not be so mono[---]ous for the
children. After the reports the following
ladies addressed the children upon o[--]dience
to parents, punctuality, truthfulness, and [-]ther
appropriate subjects in simple language sui[--]d
to the capacity of children, Sisters Louie Felt,
Camilla Cobb, M. Isabella Horne, E. C. S.
Clawson.	The Children's Fair to be opened in

[Column 3]
September was spoken of and the children were
urged to prepare articles for exhibition.	Con-
ference was adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing "Gather up the sunbeams." Benediction
by Mrs. Phebe Woodruff.
			VILATE C. YOUNG, Sec'y.

	     18TH, WARD PRIMARY.

	The Eighteenth Ward Primary Association
was organized by Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith
and at the present time the officers are as fol-
lows. President, Anne B. Snow; counselors,
Hannah M. Wright and Margaret P. Young;
secretary, Rachel Patrick; treasurer Eliza
Edmonds. Number of members 87. Order of
exercises singing, prayer, singing, minutes of
the previous meeting read, and then the pro-
gramme is in order, which consists of select
reading, from the Old and New Testament,
Book of Mormon and miscellaneous works also,
songs, recitations, dialogues, questions, to be
answered by the little ones. The Secretary
then calls the roll, and if there are any who
wish to become members they are voted in; if
there is no other business,meeting is adjourned
for one week with singing and prayer. I would
also state that there have been several things
made by the children of the Association for the
County Fair.
				RACHEL PATRICK, Sec'y

		      TOQUERVILLE.

	We had a visit at Toquerville last
spring from Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Minerva Snow. They gave us
some good instructions and organized a Pri-
mary Association, which I think will be the
means of much good. About that time we had
a visit from sister Mary Nebeker from Bear
Lake, she attended our meetings and seemed
to enjoy the visit very much; she has a sister
in this settlement. The sisters in our society
one and all express a desire to live their re-
ligion and do all they can in assisting to build
up the Relief Society and other organizations
in the kingdom of God. We have sent for a
Church Organ using the money we had in the
treasury for that purpose, thinking it might
be a benefit to our Primary Association in en-
couraging the young to attend meeting. The
weather is oppressively warm at present; we
are anticipating a good time on the 24th.
	Ever wishing for the success of the EXPON-
ENT, I remain your sister in the everlasting
Gospel.
			ELISABETH W. LUNT, Sec'y.


WHILE at Hampton on Friday the Prince
of Wales suddenly found himself hailed as
King of Egypt. Some gypsies got round the
Royal carriage, but her Royal Highness de-
clined to inquire too curiously into the future.
The Prince of Wales propitiated the dark-skin-
ned children of Pharaoh by purchasing from
one of the fraternity a couple of cubs. From this
act of generosity he was promptly hailed by
the queen gipsy as King of Egypt.  Prophecy
had probably little to do with the cry, and in
Mr. Gladstone's time of non-intervention it will
possess no meaning; but with Lord Beacons-
field in power the apostrophe of the gipsy wo-
man might have had some significance.


MRS. C. T. COLE, of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa, at
Council Bluffs, June 23, read an excellent paper,
in which she made a plea for the ideal home.
	MME. ADELINA PATTI is really coming to
America, and passage for herself, her attend-
ants and M. Nicolini, has been engaged on the
Servia, sailing October 22.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LITTLE FRIEND,

				-----
	My little friend, plainly dressed in black
and white, comes to see me twice a month.
How the visit of this tiny one is desired by my
children and by myself.  Eyes grow brighter,
as feet fly faster, to anounce her coming.  Im-
patiently, the moments fly until a respite in
work, gives time for us to sit and hear the
choice words stored up for our hearing.  Her
coming is usually when the sun has sunk into
the legendary "hole in the ground," of the red
man, of the mountains, and twilight comes the
mellowest time of the day.  The hot air of the
south is cooled, and birds dart hither and
thither after their insect prey.
	Darkness comes on, the lamp is lit, and
gathering around our friend, the friend of all,
the expounder of principles of life and salva-
tion, speaking in poetry, and prose, and eloqu-
ently giving us the words of our sisters that
are far away, we listen.
	Little friend, how looms up before me faces
that are distant, and the echoes of voices that I
hear not.  Silent is she, until she finds some
one to give a voice to the innermost expressions
of her heart, her noble thoughts, and sympa-
thetic words.  As she visits me so do her numer-
ous sisters visit other families at the same hour,
laden with the same instructions, counsel, love,
and pity.  Who is she?  What is her name?
					EMILY B. SPENCER.


[Column 1]

THE DAYS OF OUR GRANDMOTHERS.

	The fact can scarcely be overlooked that in
the matter of fashion in many respects we are
a hundred years back in the days of our ances-
tors. This has been brought about principally
through the Centennial Exhibition of 1876,
when people were called upon to rake up every
old styles, and garrets and worm-eaten chests
and drawers were ransacked and revising and
renewing drew out the beauty and utility of
those old clothing materials, crockery, furniture
etc., and now we have the same styles and col-
ors with various improvements, and all the old
designs of crockery, furniture and tapestry.
	It is a great pity that withal we have not
initiated ourselves into those habits of industry
and economny that characterized our fore-
mothers and also adopted the elegant manners
and deportment of the ladies and gentlemen of
that age. This would have been greatly to our
credit, for with the vast improvements in all
the departments of life and labor, it is ap-
parent to the observer in modern society every-
where that to a great extent the true elegance
of modest manners has departed. I know there
are some who say it is the fault of women more
than men; that girls are so forward now-adays
placing themselves on a footing with men, and
certainly men will not pay them the same a-
mount of deference they were wont to do, when
they were more modest and retiring.
	It may be hard in the midst of a revolution
in society such as the agitation of equal suf-
frage is making to maintain a proper balance,
it is always so with all radical changes, but I
protest against this decay in manners being
due to the influence of suffrage at all. The
young women of to-day in what is termed polite
society, and it is the young women who rule
and not their elders, and this is another evil of
which we may justly complain are not what
may be turned suffragists, O, no, they do not
believe in it—in fact they do not comprehend
the subject at all—it is too fatiguing for them
to understand they would not worry their
brains with it they are willing to leave all that,
to those who are acquainted with the subject.
They would not be considered as belonging to a
reform, the word horrifies them; indeed their
health would not admit of so much exertion as
voting and attending meetings would require.
No, these young ladies would dance all night

[Column 2]

figure at watering places and public resorts of
that character, but could not possibly bear to
go to the polls or speak in public.
	It may be that there was a little too much
formality in days gone by, and in dispensing
with a portion of it we have gone to the other
extreme.
	Free Americanism we often hear, made the
cause of all this license in manners. "We don't
bow the knee to any living one" and so on,
but the Scripture says "honor to whom honor
is due" and one of the Ten Commandments
expressly declares "honor thy father and
thy mother" etc. It is sometimes said this
is the homage of the heart and does not consist
so much in action, but I persist in believing
that there is much in manner. Rudeness and
coarseness in manner is offensive to a sensitive
nature, and there is no doubt it is also dispeas-
ing to God.
	Every one must acknowledge upon reflection
at least, that to go into the presence of angels
or great and holy beings, one would need be
qualified, and yet go on from year to year,
here below where there is every facility for
improvement totally regardless of advancement
and actually sneering at those who are making
efforts towards a preparation for a higher
sphere.
	Politeness is conducive to kindness and also
to peace and good order, and gentleness of man-
ner is indicative of a noble heart. Rudeness
and uncouth manners tend to confusion and
disorder, and are not a sign of genuine, sterling
qualities of soul, although I know it is some-
times so interpreted. Deference to others even
in one's own family begets in return the same
kindliness and engenders a better feeling, than
so much familiarity and disregard of ceremoney
We reveal ourselves perpetually in our deport-
ment, and it is the standard by which we must
in some measure be judged, at least by those to
whom we are not intimately known.
	The Apostle said "shun the appearance of
evil," which must have related to one's actions
or manners. What a man or woman does,
tells what they are; words are not always to
be relied upon, for often actions do not corre-
spond with them. The pretty little formalities
and courtesies of life which were customary in
olden times, at least a century ago, tend much
more to grace of manner and refinement, than
the brusque and forward manners which pass
muster in the present day. A moderate amount
of diffidence, is preferable to over much con-
fidence, and a prudent reserve in one's behavior
is much more elegant and impressive than the
attempt at breaking down all restraint, regard-
less of the principles of order which must be
maintained if people would preserve their self-
respect. Therefore I will say again, let us
encourage some return to the manners of the
past, as well as the colors, patterns and styles
of dress and ornimentation.
	The industries too of our ancestry are dying
out, and giving place to ease and luxury, which
are fatal to the highest culture of the mind or
soul. Ladies of leisure do not now apply them-
selves to the useful employments they once did.
Industry amounts to a virtue, for idleness is as
much the parent of vice in the palace of the
rich as in the cottage of the poor. The woman
who spends her days in idle dreaming, fritters
her time away in promenades, balls and such
like places is just as culpable as the poor ignor-
ant creature who revels in gossip and retails
scandal.
	We talk of our daughters becoming like
polished stones, but unless we change our tacties,
they are very likely to fall short of the high
standard of attainment we had marked out.
Solomon said "Give her of the fruit of her
hands and let her own works praise her in the
gates." We are not told that this applies to
the poor only, we understand it like all other
Scripture as applying to the rich as well as the

[Column 3]

poor. There are a class of people who seem
to think money is an excuse for all manner of
rudenesses to others, and by their tone of voice
and insolence of manner toward the industrious
who earn their own living, betray their lack of
politeness, and respect for genuine ability.
	This class of ladies and gentlemen cannot
compare with the high-bred and well-bred gen-
tlemen and gentlewomen of the days of our
grandmothers; notwithstanding all the im-
provements of the age and the grandeur of our
modern society.
	AUNT EM.


SUFFRAGE PETITION OF ITALIAN
				WOMEN
				    -----
	The following is a translation of the petition
for the franchise which is now being circulated
for signatures in Italy by the Milanese "League
to promote Woman's Interests."  The greatest
care is being taken in the collection of signa-
tures, as in a former session, the petition, which
was to the Upper and Lower House, was re-
jected on the ground that by some misunder-
standing all the signatures were not autographs,
although their good faith was guaranteed by
both Houses.  There will be no fear of a similar
mistake this year;--
To the Italian Parliament.
 HONORABLE GENTLEMEN!--Women citizens
not having been included hitherto in the right
of voting, even when that vote is called univer-
sal, appears to us no argument why the justice
and folly of such exclusions should be con-
tinued.
	Women have the same relations towards the
State as other citizens.  They are subject to
the same civil and penal laws; they pay the
same taxes.  The measures which provide for,
affect, or punish men, provide for, affect, and
punish us also.
	The influence of good or bad laws, the pros-
perity of peace and the disasters of war, ed-
ucational institutions and social customs are
equally felt by us; while more disastrous for
us are the effects of bad laws, such as those
made in our absence cannot fail to be, express-
ing only present interests, and sacrificing or
imperfectly understanding absent interests.
	That if women might be resigned to their
exclusion so long as the reform of the franchise
was based on circumstances accessory to citizen-
ship, they cannot and ought not to be resigned
when this right is based upon natural capacity
and is called university.
	It is impossible not to acknowledge that the
agricultural laborers, from lack of communica-
tion with other classes, isolation from cultivated
and civilized centres, and the nature of their
labor, live in conditions opposed to intelligence
and comprehension of national interests.  They
cannot be compared to the mass of women, who
are spread through every social scale, and con-
tain multitudes devoted to teaching, to industry,
to commence, to professions which require gen-
eral or special culture, and who live in active
centres of public life and continued social fric-
tion.  How can the exercise of the vote be
accorded to the less capable and refused to the
more intelligent?
	In all arguments based on the difference of
our duties, we cannot accept our exclusion as
the legitmate conclusion, but rather an increased
urgency for claiming the vote.  If the conserva-
tion and guardianship of the race be ours, if
our mission demands of loftier range of ideas--
then neither war, assassination, libertinism,
drunkenness, violence or arbitrary force of
any kind can find any class more interested in
their repression, because it has everything to
lose in barbarism and all to gain in civilization
our mission to guard and sustain the human
race renders everything, which degrades and
injures that race most abhorent to us.


48	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The example of various American States in
which women exercise the political vote with
so much advantage to the public; of England
where they are electors in the municipalities,
and are eligible to the School Boards, and
where they are on the eve of gaining the politi-
cal vote, guarantee, Italy from taking that
famous leap in the dark which has become the
consecrated formula of stubborn conservatism.
	While we claim the right of voting with the
conviction that we claim a right inborn with
human individual, and reject opposition based
on historical precedents as antagonistic to our
modern civilization, we declare it is unjust to
impose laws, to apply penalties, to assign to us
responsibility or want of responsibility, capacity
or incapacity, admission or exclusion in our
absence, without a question, without a hearing,
without permission to explain our own needs,
make our own demands, defend our own inter-
ests, not even permitting us to confide our
cause to persons in whom we have confidence—
we declare this to be a violent and despotic
oppression of natural rights, and irreconcilable
with the nature of representative governments.
	We record our conviction that the right to
vote is a human right, and that law is a social
compact, and that no one is held to the condi-
tions of a contract to which he has not been a
contracting party, or to submit to a state of
things that he has not desired.
	You do not consider yourselves sufficiently
represented by your equals, although your in-
terests compared with ours are paramount in
every social degree; still less can we be repres-
ented by you, we, who are sacrificed by all
your laws and rules.
	We wish for the vote because, as a part of
humanity, we belong to its life and history, and
we have a right that our ideas, our interests,
our necessities, our views, should have an in-
fluence directly from our conscience and re-
sponsibilities, and not indirect through your
passions and weakness; we wish for it that our
daughters may be happier than we, and may
rejoice with their husbands and brothers in the
advantages of having a country; we wish it be-
cause it is our duty to wish for it, and not to
cease from the claim till reason and justice
have found the way to your conscience.
	We, Italian women, submit these reasons to
you, Italian legislators, who are our fellow-
citizens, fathers, brothers, husbands, friends and
sons, nourished, educated, and loved by us, and
children of that generation which has fought
for liberty.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. Ednah D. Cheney at the Concord
School of Philosophy read a paper on "The
Relation of Science to Poetry."  Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe also read a paper,on the Philosohpy
and Philosopher of Europe and America."
	MRS AMELIA BLOOMER (after whom the
Bloomer costume was named),of Council Bluffs,
Iowa,was invited by the Territorial Legislature
of Nebraska, 1855, to address them on the sub-
ject of Woman Suffrage.  As the result of her
address, a bill in favor of it passed the House
and came to its third reading in the Council
and was only lost because some members talked
to kill time, to prevent the passage of a bill for
removing the Capitol.

 THE dream of the greediest avarice has been
outdone, and the Morning Post, the organ of
the aristocracy, and the favorite paper, accord-
ing to all the society novelists, of the Duchess
and the Marchioness,may be bought in the bye-
ways for a penny, like any such lesser lights of
journalism as the Telegraph or the News.  Sir
Algernon Borthwick has changed neither the
shape nor the appearance of his paper.  It is
still printed exactly as it was, retains its details.


of the movements of the Upper ten thousands,
and tries to look superior to the democracy in
journalims. But its success in this respect is
less amazing than the fact that, after all, it is
only going back like the English Constitution
to the beginnings of its history for its latest de-
velopment. The Post is like the Seventh Clause
of the Land Bill. It has returned to the or-
iginal intention of its founders. "In the
hundred and ninth year of its existence," it
says in its explanatory article, "the Morning
Post reverts to the price at which it was orig-
inally published on the 2nd of November, 1772.
The pressure of stamp duties, paper duties, and
advertisement duties compelled a rise in the
price of journals, so that at the close of the
last century the cost of the Morning Post was
sixpence, and in the early years of this century
it rose to sevenpence. The successive reduc-
tions of taxation brought about corresponding
changes to fivepence, fourpence, and lastly
threepence. It has become evident that by
returning to the original price we can gain a
vast extension of political influence and yet
continue to provide our readers with a paper
in every way as excellent as that, which for up-
wards of a century has maintained its position."
Then, with a declaration that the newspaper
with its million of metal types, its latest news,
and its rapid comments, is one of the greatest
achievements of the human mind, the Post con-
cludes that he would be bold who would define
the horizon which "the Future opens to the
newspaper." It is true. We never though 
to see the Post at a penny. After that, all is
possible. Still there is room for everything.
The Post of our boyhood is dead. Long live
the Post.


LITTLE LETTER.
				----
			      LOGAN, August 12th, 1881,
EMMELINE B. WELLS:
	DEAR EDITOR: I belong to the 5th, Ward
Primary Association of Logan and I love to go
for we have such good meetings, and we have
our President Priscilla Jacobs and her Counselors
Mary Kent and Mary Adams, they are so good
and kind to us, they come every Saturday and
some of our fathers and mothers.  They give us
many good instructions and sing us good songs,
we learn many good things.  I am only a little
boy 8 years and 2 months old to-day but I am a
Mormon boy and never drink tea nor coffee.
Will you please put this in the paper and I will
try and do better next time.
						THOMAS WILLIAM PIKE.
	This little letter was accompanied by a pretty
bunch of grasses and rose leves tastefully tied
together.  We acknowlege the gift with grateful
appreciation and hope there are many little child-
ren in the Primary Associations who feel as in-
terested as this little fellow.  If he continues to
cultivate his facilities as he is now doing, he will
be a great and good man.


FOR SALE
Home- Made SILK,

	CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.
DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
		DENTIST.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
			to Filling and Preserving the
			Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
			Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
			from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
			Most Approved Manner. PRICES
			to Suit the Times and First Class
			Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE -- MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
		P. O. BOX, 541

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE

	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
		MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desiree the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also, a nice selection in 
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velbet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good Work Guaranteed!
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.
		THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and 
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West             Your Orders are Solicited.
				GEO. DUNFORD.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER,
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPs. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
			Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
		HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
			GLASS & QUEESWARE,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
					   S.P. TEASDEL.
_______________________________________________________

					H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WI[-]E MATRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
						AND
				BABY CARRIAGES,
75,77, & 79, First South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE-- UP Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

