VOL. 10. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1882. 		NO.18


OURSELVES.

How kind of Father, when he sends us here,
To give each traits of character that fins
The greatest satisfaction in the sphere
For which His wison hath this life designed! 

Led singly, or by sixes, or by twelves,
It matters not, we trudge or glide along;
And all the while, would rather be ourselves,
Than others in the mighty, rushing throng.

Sometimes we take missteps in starting out,
Or are misplaced by circumstances strange;
And some for half a liftime grope about,
Before they reach their being's natural range.

And others die, nor find the way at all,
Until they pass beyond the shores of time;
While others still, despairing, yield and fall,
Or stubborn grow, and turning cease to climb.

And some encourage feelings which conflict,
And seel no settled aim, or real intent;
And some are critics, who will contradict
The plainest truths, for sake of arguement.

But still, I think that more than half our race
Would grant that what I said at first is true;
That each would rather stand in his own place,
Than any other that he ever knew.

There was a lady very, very old,
Much has she suffered, much hard labor done;
She suffered still, and yet she often told,
She would not change her lot with any one.

She had not known the sweetest joys of life,
So we would think, who dote of wedded love;
But the meek cares of mother and of wife,
Her great experience she classed above.

And so I say by sixes or by twelves,
Or singly led, we envy not the rest;
But feel that we would rather be ourselves--
That Father knows, and plans, and chooses best.
								LULA.
S. L. City, Jan. 19, 1882.


SOME MORE FACTS.

	DEAR EDITOR:-- I have just been reading
an article in No, 16, Vol. 10, of the Exponent,
entitled "some Facts," by Emily Scott, and it
is so refreshing to hear from an honest heart
such as the lady manifests, that I cannot for-
bear writing a few of my sentiments, although
I do not propose to answer the lady in full.
Now, to be as honest as she has been, I woll
say to begin with, I am not in "polygamy,"
as the world term it, myself, but oew my exist-
ence to it, for I was born in the order of Celes-
tial Marriage. Do I feel ashamed of it? No;
let the whole world hear me say it, No! I
know that my mother is as pure a woman as 
lives, and my fater was an honorable virtuous
man, in fact, a true man of God, who would
have recoiled with horror from a sinful, licent-
tious act. Are they the only ones of this des-
cription who have entered that order? No;
they can be counted by thousands. I do not
claim, however, that there are no exceptions,
but the great majority who have accepted that
principle in their lives are pure in the sight of
God. It is now as it was in the days od Jesus;
in casting the Gospel Net into the sea of hu-
manity we gather of all kinds.
	Now, we will lay aside the fact that my hus-
band has no wife but myself and I would not
be considered a good judge, not having had
the actual experience; yet some of my most
intimate friends are living in that Sacred
order. Have I ever witnessed any quarreling
or unpleasantless in these families I speak of?
No, never; they live in perfect peace and love
one another with a sisterly love. Perhapes their
ideas conflict sometimes, and would this be
strange when we consider they may be, and
many times are, of different nationalities, and
have been reared with different ideas, tradi-
tions and prejudices? What families in mo-
nogamy do not sometimes disagree?  even those
who are counted perfect models; not only con-
sidered so, but really are. I have seen grown
brothers and sisters disagree, and even quarrel
perhaps not speaking pleasantly for some time;
but this was not thought much about. Had
the same thing occurred among wizes belong-
ing to the same husband, what a talk it would
have made; Polygamy being condemned as the
cause of such unpleasantness. Those not of 
our faith would have published it far and wise.
If sisters can forgive and forget little weak-
nesses that they see in each other, surely wives
in the same fmaily ought to do so, for in one 
sense of the word they are one. The same
ceremony that unites the first wife to her hus-
band also unites the second to him, or any
number he may take, each one being made one
with him.
I believe I speak the feelings of thousands
in saying the Mormon women are happy; in
fact, we are, I am sure, the happies people on
the face of the earth. We don not have to
suffer the moritication of having babies laid
on our doorsteps belonging to our husband and
some woman he has dishonored, his partner in
guilt; neither do we have occasion to suffer
any misgivings should our husbands remain
out at night a little longer than usual, for we
have perfect faith in their virtue. The record
made by the Latter-day Saint women proves
that they are not weak minded, but the very
opposite of this. The priesthood of God 
teaches them to obey their husbands in the
Lord, which means that men who are good and
pure have the right to govern their families in
righteousness, for "man is the head of the
woman," as the Holy Bible also teaches. But
if they should commit adultery, or debauch
themselves in any manner, then it remains with
the wife to say whether she will still be one
with him or not; for according to the law of
God she is free. He has, by his own conduct
severed the marriage tie.
For myself I can say, I do not know of any
young wives who worry about having children;
on the contrary, I know of some who would
give the world to have more, although they
already have a nice little family, which many
of our Gentile sisters would consider quite
large enough. Not so with us; we are taught 
that our children are our glory, and that they
are indeed an "heritage of the Lord." We
know the world hate and despise us, but our
Savior said, "Blessed are ye when men shall re-
vile you, and say all manner of evil against
you falsely for my sake," &c. in reading the 
different bills brought forward for remedying
evils in Utah, I am reminded of a song we
used to sing when I was a little girl, which ran 
as follows:
	"There's a great commotion in the East
	About the Mormon question;
	The problem is, to say the least,
	Too hard for their digestion."
which sentiment, I think, would be quite appro-
priate now.
I would like to add my testimony that this
problem of "Mormonism" will never be solved
by man, unaided by the Spirit of God, neither
will it be injured by any adverse legislation
that may be adopted for the purpose of break-
ing it to pieces. It is God's work, and they
who undertake its solution are measuring arms
with the Almighty, and they will find, sooner
or later, that there is a fearful odds agaainst
them. And this work will continue to roll,
until it fills the whole earth, and there will be
no other way found to purify society and ele-
vate women to a higher plane, except through
the much hated principle of Celestial Mar-
riage.
	Respectfully,
		Tiney.


TALK.

Isn’t it invigorating? Don’t you feel this
strong wind of opposition blowing in your
faces with refreshing zest? How the wind
does howl, to be sure! And around every sec-
tarian corner, what gusts and tempests sweep!
And isn’t it good to sit under the dome of
Truth and know that the door is bolted by the
arm of God, while this opposing clement sweeps
and surges without?
This moral showerbath clears off the atmos-
phere, so that I wash my dishes with fresh
spirit, and sweep up the floor with a dash.
The old meeting house bell rings out with a
vigorous call, “Come to church, come to church, 
the End is near, the End is near! Pray to
God, God will hear! !” 
And the papers, filled with Congress bills
and caucus meetings to crush out the work of
Christ, sends the blood to my heart with a
mighty force, the sparkle to my eyes and the
nerve to my arm, until I feel as President
Young did in ’57, when the memorable Peace
Commissioners’ meeting was broken up with
the news of the advancing army—Sisters, sing
Zion!
							HOMESPUN.


MME. Peeree has been admitted to practice
as a doctor by the medical faculty of Paris,
after a successful examination. She is married,
the mother of a family, but having been suc-
cessfully treated by an American woman M.
D., during a severe illness, was led to the study
herself. She is said to be the second French
woman who has sustained a doctoral thesis be-
fore the medical Faculty. - Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

Little Junius, how we miss you,
  Since you left us here alone.
Oh, the house it seems so lonely,
  Now our darling June is gone.

Mother's pet and grandma's darling
  Always was our constant care;
But now he has gone to heaven;
  Do they call him Junius there?

His loving father kissed those lips,
  As in Death's embrace he lay,
And he, too, has now departed-
  Together they are laid away.

Wife and mother are so lonely
  Since they both are in the tomb;
They may call and they may beckon,
  But their loved ones cannot come.
					J. POWELL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

We had known little but sickness and want
in Commerce, and the thought of leaving there
and returning to our early home and kindred
was indeed a delightful one to us children, who
had laid out many a plan for future pleasures and
enjoyment with our little friends and cousins,
in roaming over Mendon and Victor soil; but,
alas! we were doomed to disappointment.
Sister Young, we heard, had received a
letter from Uncle Brigham, telling her to come
to Kirtland; and my brother William, who
had been down to see them, returned with the
news that they were packing up. Sister Orson
Pratt who was living with us, met Bro. Hyrum
Smith that day and spoke of Sister Young's
going East; he said he should advise her, by all
means, to stay where she was.
My mother had taken no decided step, nor
did she intend to until Joseph returned from
Washington; but when she heard Brother
Hyrum's mind upon the subject, she gave up
all thought of going back, and this all the
airy castles which we had built were thrown to
the ground.
Joseph had gone to Washington to lay the
case of the Missouri persecutions before Con-
gress, and was accompanied by Sidney Rigdon,
Judge Elias Higbee and O. P. Rockwell. The
feeling of injustice manifested towards him
and his people was no less then than it is to-
day, though at that time polygamy had not
been revealed; and when we hear people say
that that is all that is offensive in "Mormon-
ism," the only feeling we can express is pity
and contempt, for they are wilfully ignorant.
The Prophet Joseph's last interview with
President Van Buren and John C. Calhoun
are worthy of note, as the feeling then was
quite in keeping with the present generous and
magnanimous spirit manifested by the sectarian
world toward an innocent and inoffensive peo-
ple. The Prophet says:
"During my stay I had an interview with
Martin Van Buren, the President, who treated
me very insolently, and it was with the great-
est reluctance he listened to our message, which
when he had heard he said, 'Gentlemen, your
cause is just, but I can do nothing for you; and
if I take up for you, I shall lose the vote of
Missouri.'    *     *     *       I also had an
interview with Mr. John C. Calhoun, whose
conduct towards me very ill became his posi-
tion. I became satisfied there was little use for
met to tarry to press the just claims of the Saints
on the protection of the President.
When Joseph returned to his people it must
have been with a feeling of relief, knowing
that he had done his duty, and therefore cleared
his skirts. The God of heaven had overruled
it so, and His Prophet and Saints felt to say
Amen; for they knew as well then as they
know to-day that "No weapon that is formed
against His people shall prosper."
Soon after his return, Joseph wrote a letter
to General Bennet, from which we take the
following, showing there was no spirit of dis-
couragement. He says:
"It is our intention to commence the erection
of some public buildings next spring. We
have purchased twenty thousand acres of land
in Iowa Territory, opposite this place, which is
fast filling up with our people. I desire all
the Saints, as well as all lovers of the truth
and correct principles, to come to this place as
fast as possible, or their circumstances will per-
mit, and endeavor, by energy of action and
concentration of talent, to effect those objects
that are so dear to us. Therefore, my general
invitation is, let all what will come, and partake
of the poverty of Nauvoo freely."
My father's first letter from England, dated
April 6, 1840, was received on the last day of
May, bringing the welcome news that they had
landed in England, though they had had a
very rough voyage, it being March, which was
considered the worst month in the year upon
the ocean.
I copy the following extracts from my moth-
er's letter, for the benefit of those who were
connected with her during her earthly pil-
grimage. They will no doubt bring back many
a forgotten scene and incident to their recollec-
tion. She writes:
"We are thankful to hear that you and your
brethren's lives were preserved amidst the dan-
gers of the ocean; that you have safely landed
on Europe's shore, and are enjoying once more
the blessing of health.   *    *    The Lord is
able to preserve whom He will, and I trust He
will preserve you and bring you safe home; for
it seems an age since youleft us.  *     *   I
have had another attack of the ague this 
Spring; yesterday I was very sick, but feel
better to-day. Our babe has been quite sick
ever since I had the ague; he took it from me.
William has worn it our fairly; has got so he
can work and not bring it on.
"The brethren have fenced and ploughed
my land, and William has planted it. He has
been to school some, and I intend he shall go
more. Truman Barlow keeps school in this
neighborhood; Helen goes when I can spare
her. I teach Heber at home, for I know of
no way that I can pay their schooling. It is
very annoying to my feelings to be dependent on
the Church when the Saints are so poor.
"I have no reason to complain, for I do not
suffer for anything, and I often  wish I could
know that you were as comfortable. We hear
of the distress and trouble in England, and I
feel for the Saints there; but the Lord will
provide for those that put their trust in
Him.   *   *  Brothers Hyde and Page started over
two months ago for Jerusalem, and are preach-
ing their way through with great success.  *   *
"I have just heard that there has been a re-
quest sent by the people of Iowa to Joseph to
preach next Sunday. There are between two
and three hundred people coming down the
river to hear him. He has requested the
brethren to give them seats near the stand.
Joseph has preached several times of late, and
told many of the mysteries of  kingdom.
There are more or less baptisms every week.
The Saints are gathering here very fast, and
the place is being built up with great rapidity.
"I attended a party last Thursday at Bro.
Robert Thompson's; it was three years that
day since they were married. They celebrated
the day by preparing a feast for the wives of
all the Elders that had gone to England.
They were all present but Sisters Hadlock and
Woodruff. Brother Hyrum Smith and wife
and Brother William Law and wife took sup-
per with us, after which we had singing. Bro.
Thompson then offered up a very appropriate
prayer for us and our husbands. We then
parted. *	*	Sister Woodruff is here on a
visit; she has little Wilford, three months old,
with her. Sends her love, and wishes you to
inform her husband that she and children are
tolerably well. The brethren have a bee to-day
to put up houses for the families of the Twelve
that have none."   *   *
In another letter I find an interesting item
concerning the Prophet Joseph's receiving a
visit from on the of the Nephites, who told him
he had been through England, Ireland and
that the work of the Lord would be short and
powerful in those places. He also told him
many things about this land (America), many
of which have been fulfilled.
Mother, fearing her letter might be miscar-
ried, refrained from telling all that she had
heard Joseph relate, but said: "Suffice it to say,
trouble is to begin at the election (which is the
first day of the coming February), and great
and wonderful things are to be brought about."


EXTRACTS FROM MY LETTERS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
 You ask me to give you my views of Woman!
I suppose you know it is a favorite subject with
me; I own it, and know it is a subject worthy
a mightier pen than mine, but not one more
appreciative. No, sir; I yield that palm to
none; Woman stands in the studio of my mind
as a work worthy of her Creator, and bearing
a striking affinity to him! worthy to be the
partner and co-mate of her brother, man, for
time and all eternity; worthy to be his friend,
his counselor, often in trying circumstances his
teacher, his upholder—truly all names in that
one the Bible gives her, his "helpmeet."  That
we often see her fail in these noble qualities,
has been no fault in the Creator; all that He
has placed in that mysterious, complex organ-
ization is still there, often hid up through a
long and barren life. Often she "dies and
inakes no sign” of the grand nobility that has
lain silent and unheeded, because progress is
not deemed necessary for her! why or where-
fore, the grand future has to reveal. Probably
there was a time, the mightiest epoch in human
life, when, in her self-sacrificing nature, she
consented to humiliate herself and her poster-
ity for a purpose grand and great as the uni-
verse is broad and long, and lasting as the
eternities!
	Was the rod put into the hand of man, or
did he usurp it? Has not much of what she
has endured arisen from her ignorance, from
her non-appreciation of herself?  Has she
grown into the apathy that now hangs about
her by a feeling that she had no part or lot in
solving the wonderful problem of human life?
There is no effect without a cause, but this also
is a problem yet to be solved.
 I do most assuredly believe that woman
evinces a higher type of the heavenly than
man; she is more spiritual, more refined; more
exclusive and original than man; and these at-
tributes give her a keener perception, a clearer
view of truth, of justice, an intuition, if you
please, which enables her at once to see and
understand, and instantly to comprehend.
Wilkie Collins calls this grand acme of char-
acter "impulse," simply because he knows no
better. I ever liked Brigham Young's judg-
ment of woman, and he seldom spoke with
velvet lips on such a matter. He said he would,
in general, take a woman's judgement before a
man's on common subjects, because they were
not hampered with the wire-workings of the
world; their minds were clear, like a sheet of
paper, etcetera; you will guess the rest.
If woman knew herself, she would often be
in school cultivating herself, consulting the
oracle, i. e., the spirit that whispers in every
human soul of its grand origin and its still
grander future. But she is awaking and work-
ing up to a point, and where she lacks strength
and wisdom God will help her, for she is his
daughter, and I know that fathers love their
daughters and are proud of them when they
are worthy of his love.
I am equally, and ever have been, a great
admirer of noble men. Some would say it
bordered on the romantic. N'importe! I give
it another name. I know that man is God's
Vicegerent on the earth, and woman is his co-
mate, to walk side by side, shoulder to shoul-
der, hand in hand through thejourney of life
on earth. Neither can appear before God
without the other, for Scriptures says, "The man
is not without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." Do these words
mean nothing? Rather, is not salvation em-
bodied in them? You called my last letter
"stern;" let me tell you there is no softening of
the brain in Truth; it is a two-edged sword
that cuts both ways. I am in the school of
Truth, and my words bear that motto.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FLOWERS.
The theme is old--yet what is new?
Millions have trod the path that you
And I to-day are struggling through.

Millions have lived through Spring's bright hours
Have gathered, too, its choicest flowers,
And dreamed beneath its fairy bowers.

Have toiled beneath the burning sun,
Have fallen ere the course was run,
Which with light hearts they had begun.

And sweet-toned voices borne the song
From age to age, fro throng to throng,
Which millions more will still prolong.

And yet the song is just as dear,
As bright the dream, as sad the tear
That meet us in our pathway here.

So I would sing of God's loved dower,
That cheers the heart with magic power,
The sweet, the lovely, smiling flower.

We might have lived without their light,
But would existence be as bright
Did they not beam upon the sight?

They smile amid the darkest doom,
They chase the shadows from the tomb,
And teach us hope amid its gloom.

In them the resurrection trace,
We see the dead to life give place,
In beauty and in matchless grace.

And to those flowers of the heart,
Kind words of love that ne'er depart,
And many a heavenly action start,

To you I sing; oh, never die,
But live as on the moments fly,
'Till in a song is lost the sigh.
						HOPE.


[Column 1]
	A SHORT CHAT WITH MRS. SCOTT.

	"If ye were of the world the world would love
its own; but because you are not of the world, but
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the
world hateth you." --Gospel of St. John, xv, 16.

	The above passage of Scripture will explain
the mystery why all eyes are turning with hor-
ror toward Utah. Now, this horror and scared
feeling is all imaginary, and only seen at a dis-
tance, for the Latter-day saints are at peace
with each other and all the world. The "Mor-
mon creed" is to "Mind your own business,"
but because they are called out of the world,
therefor the world hate them and say all
manner of evil against them falsely, for the
Gospel's sake.
	You say you would like to know how the
Mormon women do feel. I will tell you, They
all know that they are honored wives and
mothers acknowledged in society, with their
children, and are happy in knowing their hus-
bands are true to their marriage covenant,
whether they have one wife or more. The
Lord, seeing the wickedness and corruption on
the earth in his wisdom has revealed the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage, to purify society and
elevate woman from the degradation in which
man has placed her; and woe will be unto the
man that degrades woman, for she is a gift
from God. And I can positively assert that in
no place on the earth are chastity and virtue
in woman more honored and protected than
among the people called "Mormons."
Now we might be selfish and make a fuss
about our husbands taking other wives, if we
were of the world; but we are not of the
world neither have we the spirit of the world,
but rejoice in the spirit of the Gospel, which
has made known unto us that these things are
true. I am honest to confess that nothing but
a sense of my duty to God, and a desire to
keep His command, could ever have induced
me to consent to my husband's taking more
wives, I have made the sacrifice willingly,
and the Lord has blessed me abundantly with
joy and peace ,which man can neither give nor
take away.
I believe all you say with regard to the infi-
delity of husbands to their wives. There are
several cases of that kind in Salt Lake City; I
will mention one, my nearest neightbor, a Gen-
tile. He could strut around with his gold-
headed cane, drinking brandy, visiting houses
of prostitution, and moving in good society as
a gentleman, while his poor wife and children
were suffering for food and clothing, the "Mor-
mon" women administering to their wants.
Yet he would look wit horror on his neighbor
who had more wives, and who provided for and
was true to them. Shame on such inconsis-
tencies! Oh, women of the world, can you be
happy under such treatment? I assure you
that the "Mormon" women need no sympathy
from Christendom, for they are happier in the
spirit of their religion than the women of the
world know how to be. Understanding the
noble mission of woman on the earth is to bear
the souls of men, and to obey the first com-
mand given to our first parents, to multiply
and replenish the earth, therefore they appre-
ciate their children, knowing, as Solomon, the
wise man has said, that they are "an heritage
from the Lord." The great promise made to
Abraham was, that to his posterity there should
be no end.
Now, I will tell you some of our family se-
crets. The Lord has given to the Latter-day
Saints the sealing ordinance, whereby they are
married for time and eternity, husbands and
wives being united in the resurrection of the
just, to continue their family relations through-
out all eternity. How happifying the thought
that death will not separate us from our dear
one! Have the women of the world any such 
assurance, when they are only married till
death doth them part? I am sincere in saying
I would not exchange places with any woman
in the world, nor give my knowledge and ex-
perience in Mormonism for all the wealth of
Christiendom. While Congress is passing laws
against this people for imaginary evils, and
fosterwickedness and crime in their own midst,
the "Mormons" will keep on in the even tenure
of their ways, realizing they are fighting
against God and His laws, and this nation will
have to pay the bill; for the Lord will protect
His people. Our Savior has said, "Blessed are
ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my sake; rejoice and  be exceeding
glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
M Isabella Horne.


LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

To some this may appear to be a very singu-
lar, if not an extravagant statement.
 You look upon this life, and upon this world
and you derive from them, it may be, a very
different impression. You see the earth, per-
haps, only as a collection of blind, obdurate,
inexorable clements and powers; you look upon
the mountains, that stand fast forever; you look
upon the seas, that roll upon every shore their
ceaseless tides; you walk through the annual
round of the seasons; all things seem to be fixed
--Summer and Winter, seedtime and harvest;
growth and decay. And so they are.
But does not  mind spread its own hue
over all these scenes? Does not the cheerful
person make a cheerful world? Does not the
sorrowing person  make its own world? Does it
not appear as if indeed a portion of the divin-
ity were imparted to it, almost creating the
scene around it? Its powers, in fact, scarcely
fall short of the peculiar theory of those phi-
losophers, who have supposed that the world
had no existence but in their own minds.
So, again, with regard to human life. It
seems to many, probably, unconscious as they
are of the mental and moral powers which con-
trol it, as if it were made up of fixed condi-
tions and of immense and impassable distinc-
tions. But upon all conditions presses down
one impartial law--to all situations, to all for-
tunes, high or low, the mind gives their char-
acter; they are in effect not what they are in
themselves, but what they are to the feelings
of their possessors. The king upon his throne,
and amidst his court, may be a mean, degraded,
miserable man, a slave to ambition, to voluptu-
ousness, to fear, to every low passion. The
peasant in his cottage may be the real monarch
-- the moral master of his fate, the free and
lofty being; more than a prince in happiness,
more than a king in honor. And shall the
mere names which these men bear blind us to
actual position which they occupy amidst God's
creation? No; beneath that all powerful law
of theheart, the master is often the slave, and
the slave the master.
It is the same creation upon which the eyes
of the cheerful and  melancholy look, yet
how different are the aspects which it bears to
them. To the one it is all beauty and glad-
ness; the waves of the ocean roll in light, and
the mountains are covered with day. It seems
as if life went forth rejoicing upon every
bright wave and every shining bough shaken
in the breeze. It seems that there were more
than the eye sceth--a presence of deep joy
among the hills and valleys, and upon the
bright waters. But the gloomy one, stricken
and sad at heart, stands mournfully gazing at
the same scenes, and what is it to him? The
very light seems a leaden pall thrown over the
face of nature; all things wear a dull, dim and
sickly aspect. The great train of the seasons
are passing before them, but they sigh and
turn away, as though it was the train of a fu-
neral procession; and they wonder at the poetic
representations and sentimental rhapsodies that
are lavished upon a world so utterly misera-
ble.
Here, then, are two different worlds in which
these two classes of beings live; yet they arc
formed and made what they are out of the
very same material, oly by different states o
mind in the beholders. The eye maketh that
which it lcoks upon, the ear maketh its own
melodies or discords, and the world without re
flects the world within. Every disposition
and all behavior has a kind of magnetic attrac-
tion by which it draws to itself its like. Self
ishness will hardly be a centre round which
the benevolent affections cling. The cold
hearted may expect to be treated with coldness,
the proud with haughtiness; the passionat
with anger, and the violent with rudenes
Those who forget the rights of others, need not
be surprised if their own are forgotten; an
those who forget their dignity, and who stoo
to the lowest embraces of sense, must no wo
der if others are not concerned to find the
prostrate honor and lift it up to the remem-
brances and respect of the world. To the gen-
tle, how many will be gentle; to the kind, how
many will be kind; how many does a loving
example win to goodness, how many does
meekness subdue to a like manner, when they
come into its presence; how many does sanct[--]
purify, how many does it command to put away
all earthly defilements, when they step into
presence. Yes, the good will find goodness
the world, the person of honor will finf hon
and the person of principle will find a pri
ple af religious integrity in the hearts
others. There are no blessings which the m
may not convert into the bitterest cvils
there are no trials which it may not tranfe
into the most noble and diving of blessi
there are to temptations from which 
virtue they assail may not gain strength.
H. C. NORTON, M. I


W O M A N ' S  E X P O N E N T

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		EMMELINE B. WELLS  Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
rates: each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
				Salt Lake	City	Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY  FEBRUARY 15, 1882


IN MEMORIAM
	ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.
 She has gone to the realms of an infinite rest,
		We shall hear her sweet voice no more;
	She has joined the bright ranks of the happyand blest,
		With the Just who hare died before.
	And she’ll sing in the mansions of glory above,
		Of Jesus, His power to save;
	His wonderful mission of peace and of love,
		And His victory over the grave.

	Mother Whitney has gone to rest. Yea, she
has gone to that rest that remains to a Saint of
God. She has passed the ordeal that ushers the
(pure spirit into another and higher state of
being. The tenderly beloved, the angelic peace-
maker, the sweet songstress of Zion, has left us
 to join the innumerable, invisible company who
wait just the other side the vail to see God's pur-
poses fulfilled, that they may return again to
enjoy a full fruition of glory celestial.
	Elizabeth Ann Whitney, well known to the
Church for her faithfulness, integrity and good
works, departed this life to-day, Feb. 15, 1882, at
ten minutes past two p. m., at the residence of
her son-in-law, Isaac Groo, in this city, after an
illness of four weeks, during which period she
sometimes suffered extreme pain for days to-
gether. Always patient, sweet and gentle, sub-
missive to the will of God, often repeating the
words, “Father’s time is the best time.”
	Deceased was the widow of Presiding Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who died Sept. 23, 1850.
Sister Whitney has been the mother of eleven..
children, six of whom are now living to mourn
the loss of an exemplary parent, whose life of
purity and excellence will be for generations to
come an example worthy of emulation through-
out all Israel. A heavenly influence ever seemed
to surround her like a halo, and saint or sinner
could not approach her without feeling in some
degree its power.
	Sister Whitney was one of the tried and
proven friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and she loved to talk of him and the principles
he had taught and the associations connected
with his memory.
	In our next Issue we will give a sketch of her
life.


﻿HOSTILE MEASURES. 

	The bills now pending in the Congress of the
United Stales, asking for adverse legislation and
proposing hostile measures for Utah, are of such
a nature as to strike with amazement those who
know the purity of life and principle that charac-
terize the true Latter-day Saint. Not only so, but
every person possessing the true spirit of patriot-
ism must see how directly opposed these hostile
measures are to the Constitution of the United
States. Are there none in the halls of Congress,-
no men who dare, speak out in defense of the
oppressed, their fellow-creatures and fellow-


countrymen? Is it possible that men and women
are to be condemned to suffer as criminals with-
out trial, or the opportunity of defending them-
selves against assertions made and confirmed by
their enemies? Is not this a direct contradiction
of the laws laid down to govern this free Re-
public; where even criminals guilty of the high-
est offence must be judged before they can be
condemned? Are the women of Utah not to be
allowed to say a word in their own defense, while
those opposed to the principles they have es-
poused can be heard through every newspaper
in the land, and their cause proclaimed from
every pulpit?
	Would it not be well for the nation to pause,
ere any irrevocable step is taken, that would
strike at the peace and happiness and individual
liberty of the people of Utah, and examine well
and closely into the condition of the Territory?
Would it not be wiser to hear both sides of this
case, before decisive steps are taken to punish?
We have always understood every person in the 
Republic was entitled to a fair hearing, before
any verdict could be given.
	At the present time the Territory of Utah is
in a prosperous condition, full of peaceful, happy
homes. Shall these homes be made desolate,
these wives widows, by a fate more cruel than
death, innocent children be denied the father's
love and protecting care, and the tender ties of
family affection be dissolved and destroyed, to
gratify the demands of office seekers and reli-
gious perscutors? Let not the wails of women
and children be heard where now joy sits smil-
ing at the threshold, and the angel of peace at
the hearthstone. What balm has Congress to
offer for  broken hearts and desolated homes?
	This people so greatly misunderstood and
basely misrepresented, have already suffered
cruel wrongs and injustice in years that are past,
have been driven from State to State, despoiled
of their goods, robbed of their homes and inher-
itances, and thousands have died in consequence
of the hardships and sufferings inflicted upon
them because of their religious belief and insti-
tutions. Will not the past suffice? Is this spirit
of religious intolerance in accordance with the
sayings of the Savior, who declared that not a
sparrow could fall to the ground without His
Father's notice?
	This people at the present time are threatened
on every hand. Measures have been suggested
to take away from them every right and liberty
vouchsafed by the Constitution, and these mea-
sures enforced would scarce leave them the right
of conscience. But remember, great and mighty
law-makers and rulers of the nation, that "What
measure ye mete it shall be measured to you
again, pressed down and running over."
	It has been said, and we had firmly believed
that America was the home of the oppressed of
all nations, the land of religious liberty. How
is it to day? Oh, "how have the mighty fallen!"


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				     -----
	We respectfully ask our subscribers, to excuse
the delay of the Woman’s Exponent this issue,
as it was in consequence of the illness and death
of dear Mother Whitney.
	The Ladies’ Lecture Committee appointed at
the Young People’s Conference, Jan. 22, are
prepared to attend ta any calls made for lectures
in the different Associations.
	The Legislators are diligently busy at work,
notwithstanding Congress talks of putting this
Territory into the hands of five men, who will
probably undo all their proceedings.
	The address of the Secretary of the General
President of Relief Society is, Mrs. Sarah M.


Kimball, P. O. Box 785, Salt Lake City, Utah.
General President Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. Elmina
S. Taylor, P. O. Box 625, Salt Lake City, Utah.

	On Monday, Feb. 6, a Primary Association
was organized in the Fifth Ward of this city,
with Mrs. Myra Winters, President. Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith officiated in the organization,
giving much good instruction, and afterwards
Sister M. I. Horne addressed the parents and
children upon the benefits resulting from these
institutions.


﻿ON Wednesday evening, Feb. 8, a Social Pic-
nic Party convened in the Lion House, this city,
under the auspices of the 18th Ward Relief So-
ciety, Ellen Barton, President, President John
Taylor and ladies, also Apostle Erastus Snow,
Presidents E. R. Snow Smith and M. I. Horne,
invited guests, were present. At about 7 o’clock
p. m., from one hundred and fifty to two hun-
dred people were seated around tables laden with
the bounties of the earth; after which the eve-
ning was spent in a truly social manner, in con-
versation, interspersed with instrumental solos,
songs, speeches and recitations. The spirit of
love and union prevailed, in which all partici-
pated, until 11 o’clock p. m., when the assem-
blage was dismissed with prayer by Elder John
Nicholson
	HANNAH M. WRIGHT, Sec'y pro tem.
		______________________


OBITUARIES.
				-----
	We regret to chronicle the death of our es-
teemed and beloved sister, Eliza A. Thomas,
who departed this life Jan. 14, 1882, after an ill-
ness of one week with scarlet fever.  Deceased
was born in Heber City, Utah, Nov. 9, 1863.
She was baptized when eight years old, re-
baptized October 2, 1881. Was a member of the
Sunday School and Y. L. M. I. A., and well
known for her sterling qualities, and the news
of her death cast a feeling of sadness over the
entire community.
	The funeral services were held in the 4th
Ward, Provo.  Karl G. Maeser and V. L.
Halliday were the speakers on the solemn occa-
sion; members of the Young Men’s Association
acted as pall bearers.  We sincerely condole
with the relatives and friends of our departed
sister.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whsreas, God in His providence has called
from our midst our much esteemed and respected
sister and co-laborer in the cause of improve-
ment; and,
	Whereas, Realizing the great loss sustained
by the Association and the promoters of the
cause of truth, and especially him to whom she
plighted her troth, her parents, relatives and
friends; therefore,
	Be it resolved, That we do sincerely condole
with them in this their great afflction and be-
reavement, and tender to them our heartfelt
sympathy.
	Resolved, That we unanimously adopt these
resolutions as a token of respect and high appre-
ciation of her sterling qualities.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread
upon the minutes of the Association, and that
a copy be forwarded to her parents, and that
they be published in the Woman’s Exponent.

					Amos D. Holdaway,
					George Elliot.
	Committee,		Herbert S. Pyne,
					Emma Twelves,
					Hannah Arrowsmith,
					Maggie Watsson,


﻿Died, in Provo City, Jan. 27, 1882, Susan Adah
Howe, daughter of James J. and Martha Price
Howe.  She was born in Surrey Co., North
Carolina, Sept. 6, 1886. Deceased was a resident
of Timpanogus, but was attending school in
Provo, at the B. Y. Academy. She was a young
lady highly respected and esteemed by all who
knew her; a loving and faithful friend, a kind
sister and a dutiful child.
					EMMA BROWN.

	Died at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co., Feb. 4,
1882, Sister Sarah K. Wells. Deceased was born
in Denmark, Nov. 3, 1793, and emigrated to this
country in 1863. Sister Sarah has been a good
and faithful woman, and true to every principle
of the Gospel. She was a member of our Relief
Society, and took great pleasure in doing good
wherever an opportunity presented itself.  But
she has gone to rest in her eighty-ninth year,
like a shock of corn fully ripe, to await a glorious
resurrection.				M. F. C. Morrison
				-----
	Died, in Monroe, Sevier Co. on the 9th day of
Jan., 1832, Sister Geneva Collings, beloved wife
of Wm. Collings, and daughter of Geo. W. and
Mary Bean.
	Sister Genova was in the bloom of woman-
hood, aged 22 years. Was married at the last
April Conference.  She died in childbed, leaving
a little daughter five days old. She died, as she
had lived, a noble woman and a faithful Saint.
Her kindness of manner, generosity of heart
and integrity to her religion won all hearts.
She had only to be known to be loved. She
leaves a host of friends, who sincerely mourn
her loss and condole with her bereaved husband
and parents.			CELIA E. BEAN.
	Richfield, Jan. 29, 1882.


___________________________________________________________________________

							WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						

___________________________________________________________________________


INSTRUCTIONS
TO THE, SECRETARIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY;
	IN REPLY TO FREQUENT INQUIRIES.
	It is very desirable that a uniformity should
exist throughout all the branches of the Relief
Society in regard to the Secretaries’ Books.
	In some business departments of the Relief
Society, we are under the necessity of varying,
in order to meet the varied local circumstances
of the different branches; but this does not, in
any instance, apply to the Secretaries.
	In each department we want to learn to do
business in the best possible manner, and to
adopt the manner in which it can be done with
the greatest facility and the least labor.
	The Secretaries of the various Branches of the
Belief Society are, or should be, historians of
their respective Branches. One Book (or when
one Book is full another succeeds it) should con-
tain the whole history—all records of the Branch;
and those records should comprise everything
worthy of preservation, and in as concise a man-
ner as practicable. In this, skill and Judgment
are requisite, and “practice makes perfect.”
	In the first place - at the meeting the Secre-
tary should take minutes of all business transac-
tions and whatever is said or done that should
be read at the next meeting; all that has been
donated to the society since the date of the last
meeting, with the name in full of each doner;
the amount of each cash donation, and the price
of each article donated. These figures properly
placed in the margin, are readily footed in mak-
ing up reports: and all proceedings are readily
referred to under their respective dates.
	Should the Branch have an organized Board
of Teachers (which is unnecessary in small
Branches), and that Board a Secretary, a copy
of the minutes of each teachers' meeting must


be forwarded to the general Secretary in time
for her to compile under date whatever is worthy
of record, in its proper order in Book.
	In making up Quarterly or Annual Reports,
the Treasurer will furnish the Secretary with a
list of all Disbursements from date of last report,
which, after having been read and accepted by
the Branch, also read at the Conference for
which it was prepared, the Secretary will copy
it under date, and thus have in one Book the
minutes of each meeting, all the receipts and
disbursements, comprising all business matters
of the Branch.
	The foregoing is in accordance with the origi-
nal sample Book, which was fully approved by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the
revelation was given for the organization of the
Relief Society.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	S. L. City,  January, 1882.


[Column 1]
		THE PRAYER OF FAITH.
	We regret to learn that Brother Tibbet's
earthly career has ended; but while we sympa-
thize with his sorrowing family, a ray of joy bursts
forth, in remembrance that he died in full faith
in the Gospel. And not only so, but having a
knowledge that his partner, Sister Tibbets, has
a strong testimony of its truth. This I learned
from herself. She told me that while in Eng-
land a tumor, or cancer, began to make its ap-
pearance, and was so painful that she had no
rest. She went to consult a physician, who told
her he would undertake the cure, but it was a
painful operation, and he could not promise the
result. This alarmed her, and she resolved to
call upon the Elders to administer to her. They
came, and at teh same time the doctor came
also; she introduced him to the Elders, and told
him why they had come. "Well," said he, "if
they cure you I can send them several others,
for they are very difficult to cure."The physi-
cian left, and the Elders administered according
to the pattern our Savior has given, using oil in
the name of Jesus. The result was a perfect
cure. She told me herself that she never felt a
pain or a twinge from that day to this.
	This reminds me of the first time I saw the
oil administered in the name of the Lord. It
was at the house of Sister Catharine Clawson,
in Utica, New York. She is the mother of Bro.
H. B. Clawson, who was living in the city of
Utica at the time. We had been baptized one
week previously under the hands of Elder James
Blakesley, who brought the Gospel to Utica in
the year 1842. Sister Clawson, with three of
her sisters and two nieces besides myself, were
baptized Sept. 15, 1842. The next Sabbath, just
after morning service, Sister Ruth Reese (after-
wards wife of Heber C. Kimball) remarked that
she was going to see Catharine, because her
child was sick, which would prevent her from
attending meeting that morning. I asked to go
with her, another asked the same privilege, when
Elder Blakesley inquired, "May I go?" "Cer-
tainly," was the reply. After arriving and be-
ing seated, Elder B. says: "If your clock was
out of repair, who do you think would be the
best repairer?" We looked at each other, and
wondered why he asked this question. He no-
ticed our embarassment, and said: "Would not
the maker of the clock be the best repairer?"
"Certainly," was the reply. "Then the Maker
of this little frame is the best repairer." The
mother then said, "Will you administer to the
child?" He replied, "Let us pray." We all
knelt, when he offered up a prayer; then arising
he laid his hands upon the head of the child,
and prayed God to restore it to health. She did
not open her eyes, or notice anything, until he

[Column 2]
had finished his prayer, when she immediately
looked up at him, then reached her hands to her
mother, who took her up. She asked for a
drink of water, after which she called for some-
thing to eat, and then got down to play, looking
so cheerful and happy. This was Bro. H. B.
Clawson's youngest sister, Harriet, now living.
	Sister Ruth Kimball will remember this cir-
cumstance as well as myself.  I must say that I
was delighted with the thought that the Lord
could hear and answer prayer as anciently.  I
well remember my impression, which I gave
utterance to; it was this: To be healed like that
when I was sick would be the greatest testimony
I could ask; to know that I was accepted of the
Lord, and had been so greatly blessed by Him.
	It was two years from that time when I was
taken violently sick of a fever. My parents
lived on a farm five miles from Nauvoo at this
time. I had been sick four days and nights,
and my mother was doing her best to break the
fever. Finally some one asked if I had been ad-
ministered to. No, I had not thought of this,
but said I would. The next impression was,
you will not be healed; you are not as innocent
as that little child, and you have not lived faith-
ful. No, I know it, thought I, but I will be
blessed, for a blessing attends every effort we
make in keeping the commands of our Father.
Accordingly, two Elders came from the harvest
field; one was Emer Harris, a brother of Martin
Harris, the other my step-father, Bro. Dunlap.
But I found I could not sit up; mother sat and
held me up in bed. They laid their hands upon
my head. I wept, for I felt unworthy of the bless-
ing I sought. But in the midst of the prayer
my sorrow was turned to joy. I was healed. I
felt strong, I could sit alone and fan myself,
could eat with a good relish, and slept sweetly
all night, without awaking once. I was so
happy; I thought it the brightest day I had ever
seen in my life.
	Such is the effect of the prayer of faith since
the Gospel has been restored to the earth. And
such are the results when we come to our Heav-
enly Father in a humble, childlike manner, ask-
ing as a hungry child would do for a piece of
bread to satisfy the demands of nature. Yet
we are told there are many gifts given to each
one severally, as He will. And why? Because
we are all members of one body, and each one
must fill his or her sphere of action, and be per-
fect, even as our Father in Heaven is perfect.
How is that to be done? I understand it is to
fill our sphere as perfectly as God our Father
fills his, which is the earnest prayer of
					M. E. KIMBALL.


BIRTHDAY PARTY

  In Ogden City, Feb. 7, 1882, it being the
sixty-eighth anniversary of Mrs.  Charlotte
Etherington's birthday, her children and some
friends met at her residence in the 2d Ward,
taking plenty of the good things of the earth
with them, and making her some presents,
which were duly appreciated.  After the boun-
teous repast was over, speeches were made ap-
propriate to the occasion.
   When Mrs. Etherington arrived in this val-
ley twenty-five years ago she had five children;
since that time she has become grandmother to
forty-three grandchildren and two great-grand-
children,  twenty-two boys and twenty-three
girls; the total number of children, grandchil-
dren, etc., is something near sixty souls. The
evening was a very enjoyable one, and long to
be remembered. Among other entertainments
a poem was read, which had been composed
for the occasion by Mrs. Mary Ann Pingree,
expressing the love and good feelings of the
sisters and friends.					P,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS

		SANPETE STAKE

  The Quarterly Conference of R. S. of San-
pete Stake was held at Spring City, Dec. 15,
1881, Prest. M. A. P. Hyde presiding. Prest.
Peterson and one of his Counselors, Henry Beal,
also other brethren from adjacent settlements,
were present. After devotional services the
reports were read, showing that a creditable
amount had been appropriated for the erecting 
of a woolen factory, also for the Manti Temple
and other purposes. A change was made in
Stake President of Primary Association, Sister
Helena Madsen taking the place of Sister
Phebe Maiben, who resigned. A committee
was set apart to take charge of means already
received and to be raised for the establishment
of the factory. The presidents of different 
wards reported the members of their respec-
tive societies as being alive to all known duties 
as members of the Church and Kingdom of 
God.  Prest. Hyde addressed  the  assembly 
upon the storing of grain and the advancement
of the factory; also urged them to be diligent
in keeping their covenants unbroken.
   President Petersen heartily endorsed all the
proceedings, encouraged the sisters in their
financial and charitable enterprises.  A num-
ber of brethren and sisters made brief remarks,
encouraging and stimulating the sisters to more
faithfully honor their high and holy callings.
Choir sang, Doxology.  Benediction.  Confer-
ence adjourned, to be held at Ephraim, March
15, 1882.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec'y.

			JUAB STAKE
   The Juab Stake organization of R. S. held
their Fifteenth Quarterly Conference Jan. 20,
at the Nephi Meeting House, commencing at 2
P. M., pursuant to adjournment, Mrs. Amelia
H. Goldsbrough presiding. Most of the Stake
and local officers were present, though some
were detained on account of sickness.
   After the usual opening exercises, the min-
utes of the last quarterly conference were read
and approved. Then followed verbal reports
by the presidents of the different branches,
which proved that the sisters were energetic in
the discharge of their duties, and were alive
to the interest of the great Latter-day work.
   Financial reports were read, which showed
the condition of the branches to be very good,
there being no lack of means to supply the
wants of the needy.
   We then had some excellent remarks from
Presidents A. H. Goldsbrough, M. Pitchforth,
S. Aagard, H. Grover, and Counselors J. Pic-
ton, M. Bryan and Sister Hendrickson. All
spoke spiritedly, and touched on many subjects
of interest. Some of them on the training of
children, the responsibility of parents and the
hurtful results arising from neglect of these
duties. Thought if we would be faithful we
had no cause to fear from our enemies. A
very few remarks from Brothers Brown and
Kendall. 
   It was then moved and carried that a report
of the Conference be forwarded to the EXPO-
NENT.  Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Hark the song of jubilee." Bene-
diction by Bishop Aagard.
				A. L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y
			PINE VALLEY.
   The sisters of Pine Valley Relief Society,
with three of the brethren R. L. Lloyd, John
Grey and James Bracken, (our Bishop being
absent from home, met Jan. 15, 1882, at 11
o'clock a. m., at the residence of Mrs. Dorinda
M. Slade, President of the Relief Society, to 
celebrate and surprise her on her seventy-fourth
birthday, Brother Bracken being sixty-six the
day previous, the 14th. Tables were set, and
seventeen sisters and the above named brethren,
twenty in all, sat down to a sumptuous repast,
all in excellent spirits. Brother Bracken re-
turned thanks. It was snowing very heavily.
Dinner over, the time was spent in conversing,
and the song, "Hard times come again no
more," was rendered.
   Meeting commenced at two p. m. Singing,
"Come, come, ye Saints."  Prayer by D. M.
Slade. Singing, "Up, awake, ye defenders of 
Zion." President Slade then gave the meeting
into the hands of the company assembled.
Sister Sophia M. Burgess then read a letter
composed by Ellen M. Jones, and inscribed to
Sister Slade, in behalf of the sisters of Pine
Valley Relief Society.
DORINDA M. SLADE, PREST. R. S.
   Dear Sister--We the sisters of Pine Valley
R. S., have met to-day, Jan. 15, to celebrate
the birthday of our beloved and much re-
spected President, Dorinda M. Slade, it being
her 74th birthday. And we feel to ask God,
our Heavenly Father, to bless, comfort and
cheer her lone way, that He may prolong her
days upon the earth, that she may  still be use-
ful in her day and generation, that she may
teach and instruct the sisters and the youth in
those things they may have a desire to learn;
and that He will bless us while we enjoy our-
selves this day.  We will pray God, our Heav-
enly Father, to remember, in an especial man-
ner, "thine Israel" under all circumstances,
throughout the length and breadth of the
whole earth. Bless thy servant John Taylor,
his Counselors and the Quorum of the Twelve,
with wisdom, light and intelligence, that they
may preside and lead "thy people" in the ways
of truth and righteousness.  Remember our
Delegate to Congress, and all that pertaineth
unto him; shield and protect him from the
power of his enemies; let thine influence and
power be round about him, as a wall of fire,
that they may have no power or dominion over
him; may he ride triumphant over them. Re-
member the honest in heart, this day in all the
earth, and all who have a desire to do thy will
and keep thy commandments. We, the sisters
of Pine valley, have a desire to live according
to thy mind and will and to join heart and
hand with Sister Slade in assisting to promote
the interest, happiness and welfare of the poor
and needy of our ward, to comfort and cheer
the tempted and tried, the broken-hearted, and
all that need assistance. We will ever be on
hand as a band of sisters to magnify our call-
ing and perpetuate the R. S. and the work of 
God to the ends of the earth. And may God
bless our President her Counselors and the 
members, and may Sister Slade live to be an
honored instrument in the hands of God in
doing good all the day long, is the wish and
fervent prayer of her sister in the Gospel,
					ELLEN M. JONES.

   Brother Bracken said he well remembered
"the wrongs of Missouri" and "the fate of Nau-
voo," and spoke by the spirit of inspiration; he
was followed by Brothers R. L. Lloyd and
John Grey. Singing, "How have the nations
grown corrupt." Then the following sisters
bore testimony to the truth of this work: Sis-
ters Jones, Ann Snow, Amanda Burgess and
Sister Jacobson. Singing, "O Saints have you
seen." Sisters Sophia Burgess, Jane Gardner
and Cynthia Gardner each spoke a short time.
   We had without exception one of the most
enjoyable times we have ever had the pleasure
of witnessing. The Spirit of God was richly
enjoyed by all present. Singing, "O ye moun-
tains High." Benediction by R. L. Lloyd.
					ELLEN M. JONES.

			BEAR LAKE
   Synopsis of Conference of Relief Societies
of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, held Sunday,
Jan. 15, 1882.  Present of the stand--Wm.
Budge and James H. Hart, of the Presidency
of teh Stake; Presidents Julia Lindsay and
Elizabeth Collins, of the Stake Relief Socie-
ties; President Nancy Pugmire, of the Stake
Y. L. M. I. A.; President A. Laker, of the
Stake Primary Associations;  Bishop J. A. 
Hunt; Presidents of the branch Relief Socie-
ties, Y. L. M. I. Associations and Primary As-
sociations, and others. Singing, "High on the
Mountain Tops," etc. Prayer by Prest. Wm.
Budge. Singing, "With Joy We Own Thy Ser-
vants, Lord."
   President Lindsay felt thankful for the good
circumstances that attended the opening of the
conference, and called the presidents of the
branch Relief Societies to the stand.  The fol-
lowing societies were then reported: St. Charles,
Mary Jacobs; Bloomington, Catherine Nelson;
Paris, First Ward, M. Innes; Ovid, M. Carrol-
son; Fish Haven, F. Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Laketown, M. E. Findlay. A writ-
ten report from Liberty was read. Paris, 2d
Ward,  Woodruff, Randolph,  Bennington,
Georgetown and Saleratus Creek Societies were 
not represented.
   President Lindsay explained why the Statis-
tical and Financial Reports were not read this
morning. Spoke on the principle of order,
and requested the sisters to forward all contri-
butions to the Temple to her, with the names
of the donators, so that she might forward the
same to the President of the Stake. We have
to be energetic and persevering in order to ac-
complish what the Lord requires at our hands.
   The Financial and Statistical Reports of the 
different branch societies were then read.
   Singing, "Before Jehovah's Awful Throne."
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.  Benedic-
tion by President Hart. 
   2 p. m.  Singing, "O Awake my Slumbering
Minstrel." Prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"Except the lord Conduct the Plan." The
sacrament was then administered, during which
the choir sang, "Ye Children of our God" and
"O God, the Eternal Father".
  The following reports were then read:
   Statistical Report for the half year ending
Dec. 31, 1881: Teachers, 123; members, 458;
total officers and members, 629; meetings held,
77; average attendance, 180; Church papers,
161; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
   Financial Report: On hand at last report,
cash, $37 35; property, $161 81, wheat, 387bu., 17 lbs. Receipts: Cash, $248 53; property,
$19 10; wheat, 34 bus., 10 lbs. On hand:
Cash, $88 55; property, $758 25; wheat, 707
bus., 37 lbs.
   President P. Hoganson, of Montpelier, and
President Sparks, of Dingle Dell, made brief
remarks.
   President Lindsay said there are a great
many duties devolving upon the sisters of the
Relief Societies.  Related her early experience
in connection with the Relief Societies in Kays
Ward. While in one of those meetings the
spirit of prophecy rested upon her, but through
timidity she neglected this spirit, and it left 
her. She instantly became darkened in mind, 
while another sister in the meeting arose and
gave the same prophecy that the Spirit of God
dictated to the speaker. She then made a
covenant that she would never again neglect
the whisperings of the Spirit of God. No
person can conscientiously sit down in Zion
contented and say there is nothing to do.
There is an abundance of work to accomplish,
and our time should be spent in helping to do
it. Spoke of the negligent condition of some
of the sisters in not attending their Relief So-
ciety. Every one that neglects the meetings,
loses a certain portion of the Spirit of God.
The Lord has placed a great duty, as mothers,


upon-us-in-training up.our.children.in the fear
and admonition of the Lord, and if we neglect
this duty,“the Lord will surely-hold-us account-
able.,.. Urged upon the, mothers to teach their
children-, the: importance of seeking unto the
Lord for a testimony .concerning'the truth of 
this work and :the.-prophetic mission of Joseph
Smith. We must he charitable with each
other, and bear with one another’s weaknesses.
Gaveimuch valuable.instruction in relation to,
the principle .of polygamy, and advised all
never. to fight against this, sacred ordinance.
Sisters,xnever influence your daughters against
this. Ifi we-live--our religion properly, there
will.never’be trouble in our ‘ families.
AVeshould never interfere with one another’s
family relations, because it invariably brings
strife -and -discord; Rather be peacemakers,-
for “blessed are the peacemakers for they shall
see God.” Cultivate our minds, and we will
find it to our advantage, both in this world and
in that to come; Imparted much valuable in-
struction-to the. teachers of Relief Societies,
and’acquainted them jvith their duties. Slidwed
how the sisters might gain the blessings of God,
and closed by invoking the blessings of God
upon all present. '
President Collins felt thankful to God that
He had given her strength to.be in the midst of
the, people. If we do not do our duties to
God and men, we cannot expect to gain those
blessings that they enjoy who live with an eye
single before God.
	President Wm. Budge said he had listened
to the,reports that, had' been read- with great
interest,- as. also--the instruction’s of the sisters.
Felt_grateful' to the Lord' that there were sis-
ters among us’who labored so incessantly for
the good of their -fellows; knew their labors
would meet with good results. Trusted they
would,continue. in well doing. In traveling
 around 'the Stake he was -glad to see the pro-
gress of the people. There are few among us
who will not lend the helping , hand when it is
needed; allseeming to meet the obligations
the-Lord is bringing upon us from time to
time..AVe must depend upon the Lord in the
fulfilment of our duties, and not-upon the “arm
of'flcsh"`for God has forbidden ‘this;-and in
 doing so we. have n.Q claim upon, his,blessings;'
AVe cannot; reasonably expect to enter heaven
without self-denial. How could we turn from
 evil ways and live near to God, without Some
self-denial,-or sacrifice. Our interests are so
combined,-that we cannot do good to others,
without.benefitting ourselves. Duties have
been Imposed upon us which’we’ sometimes feel
to shrink :frOm; but through our covenants to
God,,we realize it is right to discharge every
reSppHsibility placed upon us by our Heavenly
F&ther; "Hoped the mothers .Would calL their
children arqund them at. night1 and-instruct
them' ih the things. of God,’ teaching them a‘s
the Holy Spirit directs. The brethren also
with their.boys- Dwelt, upon. the duties, of
parentsand trusted all would realize their po-
sition before God, Concluded by exhorting
 allifto faithfulness, and invoking the blessings
ofAlmighty’God,
I President Lindsay announced that owing to
SisterEmeline-Rich; Treasurer to thH. Stake,
moving to Provo, it would be -necessary to ap-
point another., in her place; Sister Margaret
Stucki'was nominated-by the unanimbus vote
of the'Oonferencfe- to that position; who was.
then set apart by Prest. AVm. Budge.
 Confere'nce -adjourned 'sine, die.’ Singing,
“The Earth is the Lord’sBenediction -by'
President1'Hart. '	 	v-:
-AElizabeth Pdomire, Secretary.
	J Budge,	Assistant	Secretary


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE Boston Woman's Journal has published
two poems from "Wild Flowers of Deseret,"
with comments.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE CONVENETION.

		STATE OF NEW YORK.

			[Column 1]
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	I had the great pleasure, in company with
Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson, of attending the Woman's Suffrage
Convention for the State of New York, held
Feb. 2 and 3, in Chickering Hall, corner of
18th St. and Fifth Avenue. It is a magnifi-
cent Hall, worthy of the cause promulgated
within its walls, and the paying of one hundred
dollars a day for its occupation for two days,
shows the high estimation of the work in hand
and also the praiseworthy executive ability of
the gracefull queen of wit and fable, Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blake, the present President of the
New York Association.
	I did not attend the reception given in the
Stuyvesant Hotel, which I am informed was a
brilliant affair.
	The morning of the second day (I did not
attend the first) was occupied principally in
hearing reports from the different counties,
mostly represented by Mrs. Blake herself.
	The afternoon was occupied by Mr. Wilcox,
Mrs. Slocum, Mrs. Joslyn Gage and a witty
German lady from Albany, and representative
of that branch of the work. Her speech was
full of good, common-sense hits, and reminded
me much of our dear, sweet Camilla Cobb at
home. Mr. Wilcox is truly woman's champion,
and the woman must be truly proud and happy
(the sole interpretation of the word Marriage)
who calls him husband; and  the cause will, in
the hour of its success, owe much to his untir-
ing efforts. May he live to realize his well-
grounded, sanguine hopes, and wear the laurels
which will be undisputably his due.
	Mrs. Slocum's interesting speech was imbued
throughout with the earnest pathos and elo-
quence born of full conviction of the truthful-
ness and deep-rooted blessings to humanity,
that would spring from the accomplishment
of the enfrachnisement of women. Her placid
and peaceful face shone with her good will to
all women; and her beautiful, silvery hair was
tenderly suggestive of the long time she had
labored for the good of her sisters. We have
reason to love those veterans, one and all. She
touched as did every woman speaker, upon the
soul-thrilling mother question of right to the
possession of children. Shades of Nero! If
there is one thing in which a woman (a good
one of course) feels secure in, and of which
she thinks no one has a shadow of a right to
dispute her supremacy, it is her possession of
the children of her bosom. Our sacred Guide
Book tells us we are rewarded according to our
works, and what other reward could even be
suggested to a mother's heart than that of pos-
session of her children? If only the one ar-
gument of capacity was considered, magnanim-
ity could render but one verdict, Give them to
her. Were all men model husbands (and the
sad truth is that scarcely the majority are)
these vexed questions would never have arisen.
Not that I wish to be understood that women
are never in fault, I am far from being so ultra
as that, but we know that evils are and were
meant to be that we may be able to appreciate
heaven by comparison; and the sole struggle is
how to so adjust rights and privileges that
every one may enjoy some approach at least to
justice.
	Mrs. Josyln Gage, with her snowy crown of
womean's glory, must be heard to be appre-
ciated. Her wealth of scholarly lore is a bea-
con light to all women of her age, and to those
coming after her, encouraging them to press
onward in cultivating the germs of intelligence
given of God liberally to daughters as well as
sons. If I did not misunderstand her (and I
hope I did), she over-reached herself just once,

			[Column 2]
by making the assertion that if all things were
fair play, woman was man's superior. I regard
this as one step beyond the one desirable end
 of equality. For woman to assert herself as
the superior would be reversing the strict or-
ganization of God Himself upon the earth, as
taught us in Holy Writ, and also evidenced by
facts as they stand in Nature, unalterable either
by the feeble voice of man or woman. Man,
by his superior physique and mental force, was
from the beginning placed at the head, not-
withstanding the man with the largest brain
on record (70 ounces) was an inmate of an in-
sane asylum. This only proves that too much
of a good thing is good for nothing, and that
too much brain, like too much knowledge, may
make a man mad, and perhaps if every woman
had as much brain as the best man, they might
all go mad; at least, I fear some men would
with jealousy; for as a general thing they are
exeedingly "tender" of their supremacy. The
law of equal right now demanded by women
cannot cause any mental pertubation or disturb-
ance in the noble and true man, for he is in-
variably liberal and even solicits that women
be given every opportunity of improving and
making use of every talent her Father has
giver her, and in the almost unconscious en-
joyment of superiority, he is not forever green
with jealousy, as the man is who is writhing
under the humiliating consciousness of his own
inferiority. It is no part of the ambition of
any true  born, to lauch ahead, to launch ahead, and,
looking back over her shoulder, say, "Come on,
husband, and step lively, lest I lose you." So
that equal rights are only as a compensating
checkmate for bad men, and are in no wise to
infringe upon the good.
	After the afternoon session I had the pleasure
of an introduction to Miss Anothony, and a
second one to the noble Mrs. Gage, having
been presented to her previously at the recep-
tion held in the Woman's Pavilion during the
Centennial Exposition, Phila. I regard them
both as women of pleasing and impressive
presence.
			To be continued.


SURPRISE PARTY.
	On Tuesday, the 7th inst, the good sisters of 
the Plain City Relief Society, accompanied by 
the Brass Band, repaired to the residence of
Sister Elmira Raymond, and gave her a  com-
plete surprise.  Sister Raymond has faithfully
performed the duties of President of the R. S.
since its frist organization in this place. After
partaking of picnic, which the sisters took
along, they spent an agreeable time, the band
furnishing its quoto with excellent music.  Be-
fore partaking of picnic, Sister Raymond was
presented with a beautiful album and a pair of
vases;	after which same very pretty verses
were read by Sister Polly Ann Richardson.
	Our Relief Society is in good condition; the
wants of the poor are well supplied.
			SUSANNAH ROBINSON.


NOTES AND NEWS
                               -----
The Woman's Silk Culture Association has
held its first exhibition in Philadelphia.

 MRS. Ednah D. Cheney has written a chap-
ter on "The Women of Boston," in Mr. Win-
sor's Memorial History of Boston.

	Mrs. Mary E. Haggart, of Indianapolis, on 
Tuesday, the 25th of January, addressed the 
Kentucky Legislature on the rights of women.
The same day a bill was introduced to give
property rights, and rights to children and to
women in a degree never known in Kentucky
before.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OPPOSING PARTY.
			------
	What meaneth the sound of tumult--this
array of words, trying by the force of their
power to bring trouble upon us? The spirit of
the evil one inspires the wicked, and they are
tools in his hands in this, his last struggle for
power and supremacy. His days are numbered,
his time  short, and with increased force and
venom he raises his hand against the people of
the Lord, the Latter-day Saints. He stirs up
the hearts of his followers to warfare with the
living God. It is not polygamy they seek to
exterminate, but by that as a handle seek to
exterminate the truth and drive it from the
earth, as once before it was driven. Will they
succeed? No, never! they cannot do it, for the
Lord has promsied, and it will endure.
	Howl on, corrupt politicians! Howl on, ye
who ought to be ministers of peace, but who are
ministers of war! The honest in heart will 
stand back aghast at your proceedings, and in
their hearts will condemn your works. Evil
spirits may rage, and Satan may plan, all all
will be confounded, for the Lord has spoken
and His word is true.
	Celestial marraige, that gives us power over
death, that unites in heaven as well as on earth,
that has no dissolution in it, is the present tar-
get. Celestial marraige, that brings the bless-
ings of the Lord, that is a commandment form
heaven, is what they pretend to aim at. Really
it is the kingdom of God, the truth from heaven,
and the people who obey the commandments of
God, against whom their hatred exists. The
same God who heard the prayer of Hezekiah
and smote the army of Senacharib will hear
our prayers and smite those who oppose us.
The same God that delivered Daniel from the
lion's den will deliver us. In Him we trust.
The power of the wicked will be broken, and
righteousness at last prevail.
				EMILY B. SPENCER.


THE MISSES Kollock are four typical western
girls. The family of W. E. and A. M. Kollock,
of Madison, Wis., consists of seven members,
four of whom are sisters. Of these, Dr. Mary
Kollock Bennett, the eldest, graduated at the
Woman's Medical College of Chicago, and for
many years has been practising successfully in
that city. The next, Dr. Harriet Kollock,
graduated in the medical department at Ann
Arbor, Mich., nine years ago, since which time
she has been eminetly successful in her pro-
fessional works. The third, Rev. Florence
Kollock, graduated at Canton Theological
College some years since, and is now doing a
good work as a pastor in a beautiful church,
built for her by the parish during the last two
years, at Englewood, a fine suburban town of
Chicago. Dr. Jennie C. Kollock, the youngest
sister, graduated in the dental department of
Ann Arbor, Michigan, last March, together
with a class of thirty-six gentlemen, she being
the only lady, and passing the highest examin-
ation of any in the class. She is now establish-
ing herself successfully as a dental practitioner
in Chicago.--Ex.

	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.--
A public Legislative hearing was given by
the Joint Special Committee to the petitioners
for Women Suffrage and others, in Boston,
January 30, at 9.30 a.m., in the Green Room
of the State House. It drew together a large
audience, which crowded the hall to its utmost
capacity. Hon. Wm. I. Bowditch, president
of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, made the opening address with great
force and eloquence.
	Mrs. Lucy Stone spoke with much feeling
of the long thirty years, during which the
friends of Woman Suffrage had come annually
to this State House to ask for equal rights for
the women of Massachusetts. She appealed to 
the committee to make the case of the women
their own. She said: "The torn battle flags in
the rotunda show the strife men have made for
liberty and equal rights for me. We have
no battle flags to show for our cause, but thirty
years of our lives lie behind us devoted to the
great purpose of securing equal rights for
women. We have seen our youth and middle
life pass from us in  vain asking for rights
which all men have without asking, and now,
with old age coming on, we are still petitioning
for this sacred right of suffrage.--Ex.

	Augusta Moore says in the Evangelist: "I
took up a daily paper one day and saw nine-
teen divorces in it. I took up another and saw
five. I went to a certain church and found
there, in full communion, a woan who has 
two husbands. I visited the house of 'a lead-
ing member' in a church, and found there a
minister who has divorced one wife (a virtu-
ous woman), and is married to another. I 
know a minister who married a doctor to a 
woman for whom he had divorced his excellent
wife. This was in Clinton, Ct. Time would
fail me to particularize the cases of this sort
that I know, and I live among the best people
that there are in the world. These cases are
as plenty everywhere as they are about me--
indeed, much more so in many localities. A
friend writes me form California that it is
hardly safe to say 'divorce,' so many of 'the
very nicest people' have two or three husabands
or wives living. Now is not this an encour-
aging state of things? Is it any wonder that
some ministers are telling us how fast the world
is growing better, how the very millennium is
upon us? Is it to be feared we can hardly ex-
ert just the moral influence that is needed over
the Mormons till the States are reformed. Prof.
Austin Phelps says: 'We are not half awake
to the fact that by our laws of divorce and our
toleration of the social evil, we are doing more
to corrupt the nation's heart than Mormonism,
tenfold.'"--Cincinnati Times.


IN the Congress of the United States, the
House Committee on Rules have agreed to
recommend to the House the appointment of a
Woman Suffrage Committee of nine members

	ANTI- Polygamy petitions and bills for spe-
cial adverse legislation for Utah are creating a 
FURORE. The women of Utah are not excited,
for they know in whom they trust, and they
know their cause is just.

	MRS. J. R. Effinger occupied her husband's
pulpit at the Unitarian Church, Bloomington,
Ill., recently, and delivered a very able and in-
teresting address of "The Blessing of Giving."
It is said to have been a most impressive ser-
vice and a large audience.


IT would be difficult to name five more earnest,
intelligent,and high-minded women than ‘Grace
Greenwood,” “Mrs. Julia Ward Howe," "Jennie
June," Mrs. Mary Clemmer Ames, and Louise
Chandler Mculten, They are all journalists and
authors, and have all excelled as such.-- Ex.


H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

MIDWIVES.

A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
permanently as Castle Dale in Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
Address: 		BISHOP JASPER PETERSEN,
				Castle Dale, Emery Co., Utah.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD
DENTIST.
	SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
	to Filling and Preserving the
	Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
	Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
	from one tooth to a Fill Set, in the
	Moet Approved Manner. PRICES
	to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.

OFFICE: - MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
	P O. BOX, 541.

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe in the West. 	Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

FOR SALE.
Home- Made SILK,
AT
OUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

A LARGE STOCK.
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
		MRS, C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!
[line break]
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 &126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrates LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired of short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry 
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
			S. P. TEASDEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 10. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1882.


THE SACRAMENT
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
	"The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was be-
trayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he
brake it, and said, take, eat, this is my body which is
given for you, this do in remembrance of me. 1 Cor., xi
23 24.
	Betrayed! Oh! who may tell the agony
	That [xxx] upon the meek Redeemer's Soul
	As, in the hush o fhtat last solemn feast
	He looked upon His chosen Ones? Betrayed!--
	He found them wandring in a thirsty land,
	And he had led them unto living streams,
	And he had fed them with the bread of life--
	When crowds hung breathless on His miracles,
	Their post was at His side--in the still hour
	When He was wont to seek the quiet garden--
	Beneath the beauty of the starry sky,--
	Upon the mountain's top, on the wild waves
	That foamed around them in the midnight gloom
	They held communion with Him: Yet He felt
	E'en now, the traitor's kiss upon His cheek!
	The fierce denial sounded in His ear,
	He saw himself forsaken and alone,
	"Thou, even thou, mine own familiar friend"
	Oh! though more piercing than the cruel nail,
	Oh! anguish sharper than the wreathed thorn
	To Him, whose name is Lord whoever felt
	A sorrow like this sorrow?-- Mark ye well
	That pale, male brow so sadly raised to Heaven
	In uncomplaining woe, that tender form,
	Whose every nerve is quivering with intense
	Yet patient agony!--The Savior speaks!
	Peace while we bend in deep and anxious awe
	To catch the lightest murmur of His lips
	In this, His hour of suffering. Lo! He breaks
	And with a blessing gives the bread, as soon
	Aye! very soon His body shall be given
	For all! For us! then holding foth the cup
	Touching memorial of the precious blood
	That, ere another day hath run its course
	Shall stain Gethsemane, and Calvary.
	He says, "Do this in Memory of Me."--
	His gentle, mournful eye is fixed on us
	In pleading earnestness; His outstretch'd hand
	is kindly waiting for us; will we add
	One drop of sorrow to that bitter cup
	So full already? Will we wring the heart
	With yet another pang, that even now
	Is breaking with its load of misery?--
	We call ourselves His followers, we bear--
	His sacred name, shall we betray Him too?--
	No! gracious Master! erring tho' we be
	Unmeet, unworthy, not in vain to us
	Shall be thy las commandment, give that cup,
	That broken bread, we would remember Thee.
Salt Lake City, Xmas., 1881.


[Column 1]
		THE REASON WHY.

	What is the reason that all eyes are turned
toward Utah?  Why is it, while the  whole
civilized world is agitated by questions of
grave, social import, and men who sit in high
places fear and tremble on account of the se-
cret combinations and the dangers that increase
on every hand?  When even the head of the
Chief Magistrate of this enlightened nation
has been laid low by the hand of the assassin,
a would-be maniac?  And alas! it is not the
first, but the second of our presidents that has
basely fallen by assassination.  While crime
stalks abroad, unpunished, through the land,
and increases to such a fearful extent that the
laws of man are inadequate to reach it, and
new and strange diseases are exercising the
minds and battling the skill of the medical
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 2]
faculty-for do not men and women constantly
violate the laws of  natural affection, and that
which was once considered the crowning joy of
woman, her motherhood, that honor which the
daughters of God's ancient people desired
above all things is cast aside by many as a 
thing of naught, and almost looked upon as a 
disgrace.  While the disobedience of children
is becoming proverbial, for there are but few,
comparatively, that give to their parents that
respect and reverence that their age and social
relations demand.  When we contemplate these
things, is it any wonder that the whole head is
sick and the whole heart faint?  Can the
Christian world tell us the reason why these
things are so?  Can the politicians solve the
problem?   No, they cannot; for does not bold
infidelity walk with the unblushing front, seeking
to destroy the ancient landmarks, daring to 
trample on the laws of God and bid defiance
to his power, and the thoughts of men wander
hither and thither, and fail to find a resting
place in the systems taught by the theologians
of the day.  Can the Christian world find a
remedy for these evils?  No, they cannot; or
at least they have failed to do so.
	What then is the reason that all eyes are
turned toward Utah?  Towards the handful
who were driven into the wilderness, who under-
took what seemed to be impossibilities to re-
deem this barren region of country from the
wild beast and sage brush, and made the wil-
derness to "blossom as the rose," that they
might serve God according to their consciences,
and enjoy the liberty guaranteed to them by
the Constitution of their country.  For this
privilege they were willing to suffer hunger
and thirst, and many laid their bones by the
wayside; for this they fought the cricket and
the grasshopper, and while themselves suffer-
ing for sufficient food, divided their scanty
portion with the Red Man, that they might
teach him the art of industry and to live in
peace with the white man and each other?
	What, then, have the Mormons done, that
this hue and cry should be raised against them?
Why are their names cast out as evil?  Why
are all kinds of absurd falsehoods manufac-
tured and sent abroad by evil-minded men,
who seek to work us injury, by men who
come into our midst to gain wealth?  They
belong to the same class that cried out in the 
days of Paul.  "Great is Diana of the Ephe-
sians."  Not that they cared for Diana, but
because their craft was in danger, for they got
their wealth by making images for  her shrine.
How can we bear all this misrepresentation?
It is because the Lord has said, "Blessed are
ye when all men speak evil of you falsely for
my name's sake," and notwithstanding all the
trials the Latter-day Saints have gone through
there is one woe they will most certainly escape:
"Wo be unto you when all men speak well of
you."  But why all this intolerance against
the Mormons?  It is because the Lord has
again spoken from the heavens, and set His
hand to bring about His purposes in the last
days.  It is because the little stone that was
cut out of the mountain without hands has
commenced to roll, and will continue to grow
and increase till it shall fill the whole earth,
and none can stop its progress... Man may
rage and imagine all kinds of vain things, but
vainly do men seek to overthrow the designs
of the Almighty, or stay the hand of Him
[two unreadable lines printed backwards]

[Column 3]
who saith to the raging sea, "Be still, thus far
shalt thou go and no farther; here shall thy
proud waves be stayed."
	We put our trust in Him who setteth up
kings and putteth them down, and one shall
dare to say, What doest thou? This is the God
in whom we trust, and He will not suffer His
people to be confounded. This is the 
<i oj="" gnol="" i="" i'k-j.—’i="" "tt'tt-—-—-i="" ,.="">can afford to say to the wicked, and to our
oppressors, Get you gone, I have nothing to do
with you; the reign of righteousness is about
to be ushered in; and I have my work to do,
and hope to play my part in the great consum-
mation.
					PHEBE C. YOUNG.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A GERMAN lady, Elsie Von Koeber, proposes
an organization of Women for the purpose of
promoting and encouraging female emigration
from Europe.
	MARY L. Haggart asks: "If men are so cor-
rupt that they cannot be permitted to vote with
women, ougt they to be trusted to vote for
and represent women?"
	GOVERNOR Cornell, of New York, says that
"the voting of women at the school elections in
New York has increased the proficiency of the
school and added to their intelligence."
	THE late Mrs. Eliza F. Eddy, of Boston,
Mass., left property valued at about $50,000
to be divided equally between Lucy Stone and
Susan B. Anthony for use in the woman suff-
rage work.
	QUEEN VICTORIA'S speech at the opening
of Parliament  of general interest: "My lords
and gentlemen, it is with much satisfaction that
I again invite your advice and assistance in the
conduct of public affairs. I have given my
approval to a marraige between Price Leop-
old and the Princess Selina of Waldeck. I
have every reason to believe this will be a hap-
py union --Ex

	THE birthday of Susan B. Anthony was cel-
ebrated in Indianapolis Ind.	Feb. 15, at the
residence of Dr. and Mrs. Carey. The papers
speak of it as a charming affair. Many people
of note editors and writers assembled to honor
the labors of this pioneer worker in the cause
of woman suffrage and to give expression to the
feelings of love respect and admiration they
entertain for this able advocate this heroic
champion of equal rights. Miss Anthony has
been before the public thirty-four years, teach-
ing moral responsibilty and citizenship for
women as well as men.
	OSCAR WILDE the apostle of Enlish aes-
theticisin now visiting Boston, is a son of Lady
Wilde, a poetical contributor thirty years ago
to the Dublin Nation. He stands siz feel one
in his stockings, --and irreverent exchange re-
marks that he is a good deal taller than his
poetry. At his lecture in Music Hall the other
evening he wore clothes like a man, and the
sixty Harvard student occupying front seats
in bicycle stockings and bearing sunflowers,
"who came to scoff remained to" --get rather
the worst of it; for Oscar, having had wind of
their intentions, in a little prelude turned the
laugh on them. --EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

	    STATE OF NEW YORK

	    	  CONCLUDED.

  Having two or three hours on our hands be-
fore the evening lecture, we (Sister Young,
Dr. F. and myself,) went up to the Fifth Ave-
nue Hotel, where on a luxurious sofa we pleas-
antly spent the hours of intermission inter-
changing thought by reviewing the proceedings
of the day.
  The evening hour drawing near, we went
early, that we might see Miss Anthony and re-
ceive a book purchased after the morning ses-
sion.  We had a few moments of very inter-
esting conversation with her upon several
points, especially upon Utah representation on
the Suffrage question, the history of which she
was anxious to secure to insert in the coming
volume of suffrage history.  Her prompt re-
quest of us to name some one to whom she
could apply for the Anti-Mormon account was
so markedly in contrast to the interest usually
manifested in hearing the Mormon side, that I
could not refrain from drawing her attention
to the fact right there, by saying: "Were you
always so eager to hear our side on all matters
of dispute concerning us as you are the anti-
side, we would suffer a great deal less from
misrepresentation than we now do.  The direct,
telling truth and the appropriateness of the re-
mark were appreciated by her and for a moment
she seemed a little nonplussed, but soon rallied
and made some remark concerning how carefully
they had to guard the cause by shunning even
 the appearance of evil; which seemed to be
the interpretation of allowing Mromon women
to be represented on the platform, especially
now in the present feverish state of society.
She also very truthfully said, that at Washing-
ton it was very different, and we could be rep-
resented there, and that though she had not a
shadow of a belief in the principle of Plural
Marriage, she had no schism on the suffrage
question.  For our part we felt there is suffi-
cient truth in our cause to preserve it and let
it bide its time, without asking for opportunity
to tell our story,
   The evening session was occupied by Mrs.
Gougar, of Lafayette, Indiana, Phebe Hanni-
ford, and appropriately wound up by one of
the finishing touches of the convention, a
speech by Miss Susan B. Anthony.
   Mrs. Gougar is editor of Our Herald, the
principal exponent of suffrage now that Mrs.
Gage has relinquished her paper.  Mrs. Gon-
gar is a most pleasing appearing woman, and a
very graceful speaker.  Her speech was par-
ticularly characterized by good, practical, com-
mon sense and convincing argument, and pos-
sessed the one simple, strong point of truth.
   The next speaker was Mrs. Phebe Hanni-
ford, a minister.  Her sweet, placid face, and
the soft, liquid fire of her great, dark eyes,
attested the earnestness with which she engages
in any conflict for truth's sake.  Her speech
was impressive, but brief, and its crowning dif-
ferentiating feature from all the other speeches
was that she asked for the fruition of  her
hopes and desires for the cause, through the
name of the Lord Jesus.  Why did not all
do so?
   Miss Susan B. Anthony now took the plat-
form, as a fitting apostle to close the conven-
tion.  Now everybody who is not as mean and
green with prejudice and jealousy, as a tomato
worm, cannot help admiring and liking Miss
Anthony.  If she is terse and decided, and hits
the nail a peeling clip square on the top of the
head, is not that the way to do, when we are
in dead earnest to accomplish anything?  The
sacred Book says there is a time for everything,
and there are certainly many times in one's
life when it is a time of not mincing matters.

[Column 2]
She is thoroughly convinced that it is next to
impossible to get the masses of people to do
something of which they know nothing--that
is, voting for the franchise of woman.  Though
thus morally convinced of the little to be ac-
complished by lecturing to the masses, she
heroically intends to keep on trying.  We
were forced to leave during her lecture, but I
can assure you nothing short of the vivid pic-
ture of having to walk all the way to the ferry,
and swimming East River, a mile wide, and
walking two miles with our dresses fringed
with icicles, could have raised us from our
seats to leave her most interesting lecture.
   If I understood Miss Anthony aright, she
carried the idea that we had never made but
one regular effort at representation, and that
was when yourself and Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams went to Washington.  The truth is, that
the characteristic appreciation of the daugh-
ters of Zion of the true key stone of power
and strength, in the foundation of any commu-
nity or nation, is well expressed in the proverb
of "Charity begins at home," and they have
been so husily engaged in cleaning up the
House of Zion by teaching, encouraging and
endeavoring to direct in the best channels the
thoughts and lives of their sisters, that seem-
ingly the fact has not been considered that
there might be safety in having a few sentinels
stationed on the towers afar off.   I presume it
is true of woman's cause as of any other, that
to have its proper standing requires well-
directed representation.
   One little experience of Sister Zina D. H.
Young shows the actual power of the saying,
"Seeing is believing."  As she was standing
waiting to sign the memorial to send  the Leg-
islature, asking for the franchise of the women
of New York State, a lady close by her thus
addressed her: "I believe you are Mrs. Young."
Sister Young said, "I am."  And thereupon
the lady withdrew herself a pace, and, while
Aunt Zina stood there in her sealskin sacque
and velvet robe, but above all with the light
of truth beaming forth from every feature of
her face, she took a scrutinizing survey of her
from top to toe, and said, in accents of supreme
surprise, "Why, you do not look very degrad-
ed!"  The woman seemed totally oblivious to
the burning insult her every word, act and
look implied, but seemed wholly swallowed up
with her discovery.  And I dare say dear,
good Aunt Zina bore this with a smile; but it
has been proven, as Fanny Fern says, that you
can smile when you are the maddest.  But it
is to be sincerely hoped that such insults shall
not be so frequent as to induce in any one a
"chronic smile," a la Colfax.
   My attendance at the convention was quite
a digression on my part from my daily attend-
ance at the Eye and Ear Infirmary.  Rain,
snow, storm or sleet are mere feathers before
my all-devouring interest in this field of study.
When it is considered that the whole life of
many eminent men has been spent in the study
of the eye, and yet leaving many points open
for investigation, some idea can be formed of
the vastness of the field of inquiry afforded by
so small an organ. I feel to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in the inspiration which
prompted my visit East this winter, for I
seemed to be ripe for the harvest; for I know
that I have gained a more comprehensive grasp
of the vast subject, and dipped deeper into the
minutiae of it, during these three months, than
I possibly could have done in years alone.  I
only regret that I cannot stay longer, but the
home notes sound loud in my heart, and I must
return at latest by the middle of May.  I
have given the ear of throat also close atten-
tion, for our climate or country would seem to
be predisposing to all these diseases, judging
from the number afflicted.
   I will not indulge in any platitudes of how
I long to be at home with you again, for just
as true as twice one in two, any true Latter-
day Saint woman, when she turns her back
upon Zion, has to possess more will force than
the wife of Lot had to keep her from looking
back all the time.  I pray for you all, but my
deepest and strongest prayer at present is for
myself; and I hope my friends securely at
home will also remember me in theirs, that I
may again soon be safe at home in Zion, for I
fully realize the strength of Zion is sufficient
for the day, and if all men fail, the One at the
helm will not.
		Affectionately yours,
				ROMANIA B. PRATT.
   292 Carlton Ave., Brooklyn, Feb., 4, 1882.


ANSWER TO SOME FACTS.

SOME facts have been given of the state of
affairs in the States. Here are the facts that have
occured in Utah among the despised Latter-
day Saints. Here I am aquainted with many
noble women, who of their own free will have
given other wives unto their husbands, who are
a blessing to their families and to their associ-
ates. I have stood by the grave of a dear
friend, a first wife, and when the coffin was
lowered have seen the second wife clinging to
her husband weeping in bitterness of grief, for
the loss of the first wife, who had been such a
comfort and blessing to her and her children.
	I have known of childless first wives, imitat-
ing the example of the peerless Sarah, giving
other wives to their husbands, and furthermore
caring for the children as if they were their
own.
	I have been acquainted with second wives
who have willingly given their first born to
the childless, first wife, who has nourished and
raised it on her own.
	I have known of the first wives treating the
wives of their husbands as daughters affection-
ately and kindly, because they were younger
than therself; and again second wives honoring
and respecting the first wife in every possible
way.
	At the funeral of a second wife, I have seen
the first and third wives mourning the loss of
the one departed and knew that their hands
had helped to array the silent form in spotless
white, and placed within the marble fingers the
sweet, white flowers.
	In sickness one wife will minister to another
with the greatest solicitude and tenderness.
	Another, in a time of sickness of her husband
and second family has provided bread for
them to eat from her own resources, although
she had a large family, of her own, and had
always helped the second wife in raising her
family, because of her ill health.
	I was acquainted with a lovely woman, who
on her death bed, chose a wife for her husband
and when she found the parties were agreeable
to her wishes, felt satisfied, knowing in whose
hands she would leave her children.
	Another estimable woman while she lived
took care of the aged second wife, surrounding
her with every comfort in her helplessness, but,
although younger, passed a way first.
	These are some of the fruits of plural mar-
riage and are they evil?
	"By their fruits ye shall know them" whether
good or bad.
EMILY B. SPENCER


IT is only by labor that thought can be made
healthy; and it is only by thought that labor
can be made happy.—Ruskin.
IT is a great virtue to restrain the tongue, to
know how to be silent even though we are in
the right.
THOUGH flattery blossoms like friendship, yet
there is a great difference in the fruit.—Socrat[-]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TERRIBLE MORMONS.

"Who hath believed out report? And to whom hath
the arm of the Lord been revealed?

Ah! wherefore these sounds from afar?
This tempest of wrath in our ears?
The hisses of hate, and the fury of War-
Such whisp'ring of horrible fears?
From abroad, and at home on the winds sweeping by-
Is wafted the woful, and wearisome cry.

Ah! wherefore the Nations distress?
What calamity crosses their path?
Are legions their foes-even giants-no less-
Mighty men, than Goliath of Gath?
What danger impending creates such dismay-
That the civilized world are in battle array?

In the Vales of the mountainous West-
A sprinkling of people reside-
A handful at most-who believingly boast-
That the Lord is their friend and their guide.
"Gainst these "Terrible Mormons" are vengefully hurl'd
The malice of millions, the wrath of a world.

And why do the multitude sit
On a few, in such judgement and ire?
More crimes than the masses, do Mormons commit-
Provoking a tumult so dire?
"Away with such people" tis bigotry's cry;
Twas thus the Jews clamor'd, that Jesus should die.

A Seer, in the centuries past-
Had a vision, 'twas vivid and grand;
Its substance was this, that Jehovah at last
Would set up His rule in the land.
In the midst of the mountains, a people forsooth-
Should life up an Ensign, the bammer of Truth!

Did Daniel the dreamer, the Jew-
Ever see what a state, what a time,
Of trouble there'd be should his vision come true?
 No matter what age or what clime
Should God found a Kingdom, did Daniel foretell,
"Twould be so vexatious to earth and to hell?

Yea, the prophets foretold that the world
Would speak "gainst the Holy and High,"
Would war with His Saints, and encompass their camps
And in conflict, Jehovah defy-
That dominion and triumph at length should be given
To the Saints, who shall serve in the battle of heaven."

At present, "The Stone" is so small
That's destined to roll and to grow.
Why the Nations are troubled at all-
Is more than the half of them know;
Oh is't the conviction, the positive dread
That Truth so Eternal, must prosper and spread?

The "Terrible Mormons will keep-
On the track that they've started to go,
They labor to live, yea they plant and they reep-
Untroubled, for surely they know-
That He whose commandments they dare to obey
Doth care for His Kingdom, by night, and by day.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


A MOTHER'S TESTIMONY

MY DEAR LULA:
	I have been reflecting upon the general sit-
uation of the Latter-day Saints and their ac-
cusers. Why is it that we have not more faith?
We who have cried unto the Lord, and had
our petitions granted time after time, how is it
that we cannot have faith sufficient to accom-
plish any and every righteous undertaking?
It is perhaps, not expedient that we should at
present, exercise that divine gift to the extent
that some of us might desire. Otherwise, I
think it would be given to us in a greater de-
gree than is yet manifested among us. We
know we have no reason to fear for the Lord
is with us and He is able to accomplish His
own purposes.
	It is a source of very great happiness to me,
that all my children are on the Lord's side of
the battle in this terrible day of calamitous

[Column 2]
events. How merciful the Lord has been to
me in answering my prayers in this matter!
For when my children were small and I used
to bathe their little bodies, it was my continual
prayer that God would keep them from sin,
cleanse their hearts and make them brave to
battle for the right and to over-come evil, that
they might be worthy to dwell with Him in His
Kingdom. I believe that each one of my sons
and daughters are now striving to serve the
Lord and lay up treasures in heaven. Have I
not reason to rejoice and praise God? I feel
like bearing my testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, with a desire that the same
may abide with my children and my children's
children forever.
	I had the great privilege of knowing Jos-
eph Smith personally; and I know for myself
and not for another that he was a true prophet
of the only true and living God. I know that
every principle brought forth and established
by him is of God, and that the Lord will sup-
port and sustain those who will be faithful and
diligent in upholding and defending those prin-
ciples.
	The enemies of all righteousness are blinded
in regard to the plan of salvation and the re-
demption wrought out by the atoning blood of
Christ. Hence they wage war against those
who would meekly strive to follow out the pat-
tern given by Jesus, and execute the purposes
of His Father upon the earth. They complain
of the so called"Mormons" because they make
covenants with the Lord by sacrifice and re-
ceive the blessings which follow such works.
It is something of which they are entirely ignor-
ant, and into which they are determined not
to get an insight; but still they must complain
and strive to get control of the people who are
seeking to serve God that they may prohibit
the building up of His Kingdom upon the
earth. But they will be disappointed in their
designs as those people were  sought to
take away the rights of the Prophet Daniel, so
that he should not even pray to the Lord whom
he served. Did those people believe in God
or in His prohpet? They had the same respect
for holy beings and sacred things that our per-
secutors have to-day. What did they accom-
plish? Their own destruction! And those who
are seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saints
and the Priesthood of God from off the earth
today, will accomplish the same thing from them-
selves.
	My children be true to God and to your-
selves. Shrink not from any duty however
dark the way may appear before you. Put
your trust in God, knowing that this life is of
but little moment compared to that which
awaits the faithful followers of Jesus Christ,

	"Eye's not seen the untold treasured,
	Which the Father hath in story,
	Teeming with surpassing pleasures,
	Even life for evermore!"

	Your father joins me in best love and con-
stant prayers for your present and eternal wel-
fare.
		Your affectionate mother,
					Susan K. Greene


SELF GOVERNMENT

Self-government is the power of controlloing
the mind; a person exercising it must accord-
ing to phrenology, possess a great amount of
intellectuality. The mind of man, like a gar-
den, must be cultured and pruned; the soil is
never so rich but stray weeds peep forth occa-
sionally, and gaining strong hold, choke a ten-
der flower by which they chance may spring.
Self-government is the basis to all success; it is
gained by unswerving confidence in one's self
avoiding trepidation by keeping constant vigi
over--every thought, word and act; thus pre-
venting extremes, and preserving an "even
tenor of preceedure, in all transactions, men-
tal or physical. To know thyself is to be a
king - a God of the frail, mortal bark you
possess, which, if not carefully piloted, is tossed
from wave to wave on the sea of life, like a
vessel void of a helmsman. A man possessed
of self-government is referred to by his imme-
diate acquaintances as the embodiment of man-
liness; his every act so accords with what God
destined man should be, that he is pronounced
and acknowledged as a person of firm, resolute
determination. A forcible character, accom-
panied by gentleness, hospitality and sound
reasoning faculties, is the result of a constant
toning of the passions. How loved is one thus
endowed! His society is ever courted by those
of a genial spirit, and envied by those lacking
this fortitude of mind, whose immoral views
are based on circumstances, and whose minds
revolt at the idea of penetrating the recesses of.
a noble virtuous man's character.
Firmly anchored by self-government, the
tensions, of the brain is tested without injury;
impressions are chronicled and retained, until
the mind is an overflowing storehouse from
which the capacities draw, as they require;
universal knowledge becomes visible, and the
face its index, beams as a star when lit up
with the pure spirit of an honorable self-
willed man. His ideas, carefully adjusted and
clothed rise before us like crystal streams of
living waters issuing from a fountain, whose
particles set free, separate and revive the droop-
ing twig near by, imparting to it a refreshing
glow, and receiving for recompense the parched
leaflet's apparent recovery.
From a moral standpoint, the majority of
mankind have unconsciously drifted far from
the path of decorum; hence, to assert supremacy
over this common current, one must, as it were,
stand a  ne, and bear unfeeling, keen animad-
ver i  ms, hurled from a heartless commuuity;
with the one comforting thought that the, mas-
t r of himself, can withstand the tempter's
fiendish wiles, and will eventually be compli-
mented by those very ones who at first ridi-
culed his integrity of manhood.
While the two widely differing personages
are before us, let us scan their countenances;
one bear the likeness of his Maker; intelli-
gence, nobleness, and valor blend and send
forth an assurety of their presence by that
bold, frank, noble look. The other - what a
contrast! How wide the chasm! Wrecked
manhood and vice have left their traces; the
furrowed brow and tainted air tell their own
story; the sullen eyes shrink from the steady
gaze of the former, and too late he finds him-
self a slave. No one can depend on him; his
word is naught; he is liable to change with the
first ebbing tide; like driftwood, he is floating
down the stream of life, to lodge against the
first obstacle; while the self-possessed man
moves in society that his deportment com-
mands. He is honored and sought for counsel,
is a nucleus round which many rally for sup-
port; thus, endowed with capabilities, he be-
comes a ruler. What a marked affinity be-
tween such a character and out God, who evi-
dently, first learned to govern Himself, ere He
entrusted in His care, our earth. Reflect, O
ye Christians! how great will be your joy
when you appear at the immortal bar for judg-
ment, if those life-giving words greet your ears,
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant."
This we can only meet by having had con-
stantly for our motto, "Know thyself." In
conformity to the example portrayed by our
Father in Heaven, and as architects of our
own characters, it becomes incumbent, as obe-
dient children, to lay as the foundation stone -
Self-government.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	B.Y. Academy, Provo, Feb. 12, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	Emmeline B. Wells.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time. $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher Woman's Exponent,
			Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY.  		MARCH 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
WHY WE SHOULD SPEAK.

	So much is being said about the "Mormons,"
in the Congress of the United States, in the pul-
pits of ministers of all or nearly all denomina-
tions, in the newspapers and journals of the day,
that a thoughtful person would be inclined to
ask himself the question—is it not a greater vir-
tue to maintain silence on the subject than to
speak? To stand still and see the salvation of
God! Or if one speaks at all to be sure and do so
calmly and advisedly. Although it is an old
proverb that "silence means consent." If the
silence of this people could by any means be
construed into meaning consent to the calumnies
and wicked misrepresentations circulated about
them, then it would seem as if, verily the whole
people should raise their voices and cry aloud!
Certainly the most atrocious falsehood are pub-
lished about the "Mormons," and those who are
not well informed in regard to the subject will as
a matter of course believe these terrible things if
the other side is not presented. Consequenly a
statement of facts seems absolutely essential in
the present crisis of affairs.
	The Territory of Utah is in a most prosperous
condition, the present government affording am-
ple protection for all classes of citizens, were the
laws properly administered. And while there is
ample security for protection of life and property
and all have an opportunity to pursue whatever
employment or industry they choose, and to
worship God according to that form of religion
they see fit, or in accordance to the dictates
of each one's own consciences; and in
view of the peace, prosperity and growing
wealth and importance of the industries of
various kinds in Utah it seems strange that
apparantly sober-minded people, possessed of
good common sense should desire to provoke any
issue detirmental to the interests of so flourish-
ing a portion of the great Republic.
	And yet when the facts stare one in the face,
that public sentiment has been so throroughly
aroused as to urge upon Congress, the adoption
and enforcement of such extreme measures, a
are meditated by that august assembly in dealing
with the "Mormons," it becomes a sacred and
solemn duty, to claim protection from that gov-
ernment, which has proclaimed religious free-
dom to all the world, and under whose stars and
stripes, thousands of the people now declared
disloyal have been born and reared.
	It has been asserted that Utah is peopled with a
foreign element, who are anti-republican in prin-
ciple. "Mormonism" grew up in America in the
soil of the Republic; all the early followers or
disciples of the faith were citizens of the United
States. Many of them still live, but those who
have died, have left children and grand children
who are also citizens in their own right, withou
the process of naturalization. There are men and
women here who are as proud of their lineage a
any other of the descendants of the noble heroe
of 76. To call them the offscouring of the nation

[Column 2]
low and ignorant is to disgrace their glorious an-
cestry, who fought and bled for the liberty, now
enjoyed by American citizens.
	To be sure, "Mormon" Elders have gone abroad
and preached the Gospel among the nations as
well as in these United States, and thousands of
honest souls have been gathered out from abroad
and have emigrated to America and dir[-]laimed
all allegiance to foreign powers and become good
citizens, helped to build up the country, and sus-
tain the Constitution in all good faith and sin-
cerity, believing America to be "the land of the
free and the home of the brave."
	The present Legislative Assembly of the Ter-
ritory only contains nine members who are not
native-born citizens which is one of the
proofs that a good proportion of the population is
American. Statistics of Utah plainly show the
people are not ignorant. The women of the Ter-
ritory, taking them as a whole are well informed
on all the general topics of the day. In every
town and settlement there are organized socie-
ties where they meet together to be mutually
instructed on questions of a social, political,
moral or religious nature.
	Those unacquainted with life among the Mor-
mons, cannot realize how devastating and des-
olating would be the consequences of the blow
now aimed at Utah by the rulers of this nation,
were it to fall upon the people as is anticipated
by those who have succeeded in part in accom-
plishing their wicked designs.
	But there are still some brave men, who dare
to maintain the principles of equality and jus-
tice, for the oppressed in face of the bitterest op-
position, and these few, may save the honor of
the nation; may by their sound reasoning and
high-minded and broad philanthropy, cause Con-
gress to pause and deliberately consider the cost
of the work it has undertaken to do, before care-
fully going over all the ground. In the mean-
time, this people have the right of defending
their faith and practices, as they may think best;
it is only consistent that being so much talked
about they should make some positive vindica-
tion of the truth, of the doctrines as they un-
derstand them, for which they are ostracized.
Petition and memorialize the American Con-
gress, that its members may be left without an
excuse, should they go to such extremes as to
bring themselves under condemnation to a fu-
ture day. But as one honorable man of the world
remarked to the writer not long since:—"I am
fearful," and said he "I use the word understand-
ingly in its fullest sense that the rulers of this
nation will do something which they will regret
in a day to come, because it will be contrary
to the spirit of freedom guaranteed to all men
under the Constitution."


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE blanks for the Y. L. M. I. A. reports are
for sale at the Deseret News Office; also blanks
for Primary Associations.

	QUESTIONS and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith,
for sale at this office; price, twenty-five cents.
Primary Hymn Books, two for twenty-five
cents; Correspondence of the Palestine Tourists,
cloth bound, $2.25, leather gilt, $3.00; Poems by
E. R. Snow, second volume, are also for sale
here, price, $1.25 and $1.75.

	WE learn, by letter, that the two children
emigrated last year from England by the mem-
bers of the Primary Associations in Brigham
City, have been provided with comfortable
homes in families, where they will have the ad-
vantages of being properly trained and instructed.
A noble work, a blessed work for these children
to do.

[Column 2]
	Articles laid, over for next issue; Deaths, Mrs.
Sarah Very, Mrs. Mary Ann Ellis and the Life
Sketch of Elizabeth Ann Whitney which is too
lengthy for this issue, but will be given in our
next number in a complete form with a poem
written on her last birthday Dec. 26, 1881. A
Distinguished Woman and Scenes and Incidents
in Nauvoo will be continued. "Some Facts that I
Know," and another article addressed to Mrs.
Emily Scott, also a second article from Mrs.
Scott herself.

	MRS. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary Presiding
Board Relief Society, requests all Stake Secre-
taries of that organization to forward semi-
annual reports as early as the 15th of March, as
she is required to hand in the general report to
President Taylor's office ten days previous to
the April Conference. Last October there were
five Stake reports too late to be included in the
general report. Secretaries should pay particu-
lar attention to this notice, and govern them-
selves accordingly.

	THE Secretary of the central board Y. L. M.
I. A. requests all Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M.
I. A. to forward their semi-annual report as
soon as possible, in order that the general report
may be handed in to Prest. Taylor's office ten
days previous for the April Conference. Direct
Miss Louie Wells; care WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Stake reports of Primary
Associations should also be forwarded, in order
to have a general report prepared for the coming
Conference. Direct to Lillie Freeze, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

	THE sisters of the Relief Society of South
Cottonwood met at the residence of Sister Mag-
gie Cahoon, at 11 o'clock a. m. Feb. 13, as a sur-
prise party for President Jeanette Cahoon. After
the party had convened some of the sisters went
to the residence of Sister Jeanette, and returned
with her to the residence of her sister, Maggie;
each heart was filled with joy to meet with their
worthy President, who has labored so diligently
for the past fourteen years for the benefit of the
Relief Society. They then presented to her a
handsome easy chair, together with other pres-
ents. She appreciated the good feeling and
thanked the sisters for this demonstration of
respect to her. Thirty persons sat down to din-
ner, and the tables were laden with the bounties
of the earth; after which singing, recitations,
and other amusements were indulged in until
six o'clock in the evening, when the party re-
turned home, feeling amply repaid for the visit.

	THE Woman's Conference in this Stake of
Zion will be held on Friday and Saturday, the
10th and 11th inst., in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall. It is earnestly requested by
the Stake Presidents of the respective organiza-
tions that there be a good attendance from all
parts of the Stake, if practicable. Some impor-
tant business will be brought before the Confer-
ence. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings the first day, Friday, 10th, and on the
morning of the second day; Saturday, 11th, the
Primary Conference will be held. It is expected
all officers of these association who can make
it convenient to attend will do so. If the
weather is fine, the children who reside in the
city will be expected to attend their Conference
on Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference will be held in the afternoon of the same
day, at two p, m., and it is sincerely hoped there
will be a prompt attendance of all officers and
as many members as possible. If the house is
too small, which we sincerely hope may be the
case, no doubt the Conference will adjourn to
the Assembly Hall, or some larger building.
Secretaries of each organization should be on
hand with reports in good time.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM
	Died at the residance of her son-in-law F. J. Vin-
cent, Panacca Nevada, Rosina: widow of the late
James Tregeagle of New Zealand. Deceased was
in her 50th year, was a native of England where
she embraced the Gospel many years ago.  Mrs
Tregeagle was a great sufferer for years previous
to her death, being afflited with an incurable
cancer or tumor. She was gentle, refined and
patient, a true Latter Day Saint and one who had
made great sacrifices for the sake of her religion.
She died in the hope of a glorious resurrection.

	Marion Khrstinia Jenson Welbye born April
the 9th 1827 in Grimstrap, Maribo [-]olland, Den-
mark died Febuary the 14th in 1883 of disease of
the howels.  She was baptised in 1863 and came
to Utah in 69, the next year.
	She has been a faithful Teacher in the Relief
Society of Manti for many years always on hand
to perform every duty for the interest of the So-
ciety and the Kingdom of God, and through
great affliction she has gone to her reward.
"Peace to her ashes."    REBECCA WAREHAM

	Died in Tooele city Jan. 21st 1882 of general
debility Mailda Bates, daughter of James and
Vina Reeves and wife of the late Ormus E.
Bates; decased was born Rochester, New York
April 11th 1827, was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day saints in the year
1813 emagrated to Utah 1851 and lived in Tooele
county until her death; she was an exemplary
and faithful adherant to all the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel and died full in the faith.
She leaves one son and three daughters and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her
departure;  she was also a Teacher to the Relief 
Society which position she honorably filled till
her death.  She was followed to the Meeting
House by her Relatives and the Officers and
members of the Relief Society, where comforting
and consoling remarks were made by Patriarch
John Rowbery, and Pres. Gowans when the large
cortege followed her to the cemetery and her re-
mains were consigned to her last resting place
to await the resurrection of the just.
				ANN TATE, Cor, Sec y.,

	Sister Rhode H. Foss Richards, daughter of
Calvin Foss and Sarah B. Carter, was born April
19, 1830, in the town of Saco in the State of Maine,
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Prest. Wilford Woodruff
in the Autumn of 1844, and gathered with her
mother brother and sisters to Salt Lake City in
the year 1850.  On the 30 of November 1851 she
was married to the late President Willard Rich-
ards and by him became the mother of Calvin
W. Richards who married Emma I. Walker a
grand-daughter of Patriarch Hyrum Smith and
is a resrected citizen residing at Farmington in
Davis County.
 On March 6th 1857 she became the wife of
Apostle F. D. Richards; located with other mem-
bers of her family in Farmington; and there has
borne three sons and a daughter. Hyrum and
Ita have departed Ezra and sarah remain to
mourn her loss.
 Sister Rhode Richards won the love and es-
teem of those who knew her by her dutiful and
consistent life as a Latter.day Saint.
	She accepted and obeyed every doctrine and
ordinace of the Church that was required of
her and lived in dutiful conformity therewith.
She taught her children the principles of the
Gospel and had the great satisfaction to see them
walk in the ways of the Lord while they lived,
and those who sleep to depart in the faith.
 The illness which terminated her earthly
career at 10 o'clock a.m. Nov. 19, 1882 was of a
protractrd and serious character which has con-
fined her to her room and bed for more than two
years and a half during all which she manifested
the faith and patience which are the fruit of an
abiding hope.
	When but a few days before her death her hus-
band enquired how she felt about his going with
others of the Apostles and Presidency on a short
mission to the Southern part of the Territory?
She replied go Franklin and do your duty, all
will be well with me.
 She has ever been an obedient duitful child, a
faithful and affectionate wife, a loving and in-
dulgent mother and an exemplary confiding
Latter-day Saint. May her rest be glorious un-
til the resurrection of the just, when they shall
come again to earth and bring their glory with
them. -Com.
 At the time of Sister Rhoda Richards death
Elder F. D. Richards was away upon a mission-
ary tour in the southern part of the Territory
and where the telegraph could not reach him.
His wife Rhoda had been so long ill, that there
seemed no immediate danger when he left
--otherwise he would certainly have remained at
home but he was absent dong his Master's work
and she knew it and was satisfied to have it so.


[Column 1]
MEMORIALS TO CONGRESS.

	We publish below a copy of the Memorial
to Congress from the women of Utah, and also
one from the young ladies, that are being circul-
ated throughout all the Stakes of Zion for signa-
tures. They are an embodiment of the senti-
ments held by the women of Utah in re-
lation to the excitement aroused against this
people, and the action of Congress in the prem-
ises:

To the Honorable the Senate and Hsuse of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled:

	We, the women of Utah, view with deepest regret
the bills that have been presented in Congress dur-
ing the present session, asking for special legisla-
tion for our Territory; which, if carried into effect,
will destroy the peace, tranquility and prosperity
which have heretofore characterized our dearly
loved homes. We were driven to these mountain
vales by the cruel hand of persecution, while on
our journey as outcasts and exiles, our sons, hus-
bands and fathers were called upon by the nation
to battle for American rule in this country, then a
portion of Mexico, and after struggling through
privation and hardship such as men, women and
children have seldom endured, your petitioners,
many of them descendants of the Pilgrims of New
England, with their fathers, husbands, brothers
and sons, found a barren desert, inhabited only by
savage Indians and wild beasts; here we have la-
bored with the courage and endurance born only
of religious faith, in helping to establish homes for
ourselves and our children, and have made it easy
for those coming at a later period, who found these
valleys blooming with beauty, and teeming with
plenty to enjoy all the blessings which pertain to
life and happiness.
	And we most respectfully represent to your hon-
orable body, that the bills aforesaid, now pending
in the Congress of the United States, are further
calculated to destroy our birthright of liberty, the
glorious heritage bequeathed by our noble ancestors.
	And furthermore, we are well aware, that the
present excitement in the nation is the result of ig-
norance and misrepresentation; and that the aim of
our enemies is to rob us of our hard-earned homes
and to plunder the public treasury. These schemes
have been concocted by sectarian priests and politi-
cal [---], and by women who are the tools
of wicked and designing men, both men and women
unscrupulous in their enmity and mendactons in
their statements, although they have homes and
houses of worship in Utah Territory, comprising
nearly all religious denominations, and are pro-
tected in all their rights as citizens, and as reli-
gious worshipers, without the least intrusion or
molestation; and who, instead of reforming the
morals of the community as they perfidiously pre-

[Column 2]
tend, have assisted in introducing and sustaining
in our midst, the most demoralizing institutions
known in the world.
	And moreover, we, your petitioners, hereby tes-
tify that we are happy in our homes, and satisfied
with our marriage relations, and desire no change.
We are not the "oppressed and down-trodden wo-
men" we are represented to be, but enjoy more
rights and freedom than women elsewhere in the
nation, and we do know that our institutions are of
such a nature as tend to purity of morals and ele-
vation of character. And we most solemnly aver
before God and man, that our marital relations are
most sacred, that they are divine, enjoining obliga-
tions and ties that pertain to time and reach into
eternity. Were it not for the sacred and religious
character of the institution of plural marriage, we
should never have entered upon the practice of a
principle which is contrary to our early teachings,
and in consequence of which our names are cast
out as evil, by the Christian world.
	Therefore, we most respectfully appeal to your
honorable body to forbear hasty and reckless action
in regard to so important a matter as the politica
disorganization of the most prosperous and flour-
ishing Territory of which the nation can boast; and
before proceeding to radical changes, to do your-
sleves the justice to investigate, by a commission
of honest and intelligent men and women, the true
condition of the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory,
	And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever
pray.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled.

	Whereas, Certain bills are now pending before
your honorable body, which, if passed, will break
up happy homes and families and produce untold
misery, sorrow and suffering; will deprive us of
the kind, fostering care of honorable, upright, God-
fearing fathers, and drive forth our precious, loving
mothers as outcasts; as those who have no right to
the honored name of wife, and also cast opprobrium
upon many of us as illegitimate; and,
	Whereas, The passage of such bills would de-
prive our fathers, mothers and brothers (and our-
selves, when properly qualified) of the right of
franchise, and, in fact, of all the rights of Ameri-
can citizens, debarring us of the free exercise of
our holy religion, which is dearer to us than life
itself, and would be contrary to the spirit of the
glorious Constitution of our country, which we
have ever been taught to revere as an inspiration
from Almighty God; for we have been taught, and
conscientiously believe that plural marriage is as
much a part of our religion as are faith, repentance
and baptism; and,
	Whereas, In our opinion, the cause of the intro-
duction of such bills has been the false representa-
tion of evil disposed persons, who assert we are
low, ignorant, degraded and disloyal: and, feeling
assured that, had your honorable body been truth-
fully advised in regard to the people of this Terri-
tory, such bills would never have obtained a hear-
ing in the Congress of this mighty nation;
	Now, therefore, we, the young ladies of Utah
Territory, do most solemnly and truthfully declare
that neither we nor our mothers are held in bond-
age, but that we enjoy the greatest possible free-
dom socially and religiously; that our homes are
happy ones, and we are neither low nor degraded:
for the principles of purity, virtue, integrity and
loyalty to the government of the United States
have been instilled into our minds and hearts since
our earliest childhood.
	According to what we read, and can learn from
other sources, in no place in the world is female
chastity and virtue guarded with more jealous care
than by our people; for we have been taught and
do understand that this is our greatest boon; far
above jewels or wealth, and more precious than
life itself, and we therefore most respectfully me-
morialize your honorable body to suspend further
action on all bills relating to Utah, and send a com-
mission of honorable, intelligent and unprejudiced
men and women to inquire into, and learn the true
state of affairs in this Territory:
	And as in duty bound, your memorialists will
ever pray.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	PROTEST OF A "MORMON" WOMAN
				-----
  DAUGHTER OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.
				-----
	The Latter-day Saints should not be sur-
prised at anything, for the Lord has told us
through His ancient prophets as well as through
Joseph the seer of the awful calamities and
judgments which are surely coming upon the
nations, and he said that they should commence
at the house of the Lord.  The following is from
one of Joseph's revelations, "Behold it shall
come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth
to the east and to the west, to the north and to
the south, and even now let him that goeth to
the east teach them that shall be converted to
flee to the west, in consequence of that which is
coming on the earth and of secret combinations.
Behold, thou shalt observe all these things and
great shall be thy reward, for unto you it is
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom,
but unto the world it is not given to know
them."
	At the present time things look rather dark,
but I think there will be no trembling nor
shaking of the knees among the ones who are
in the enjoyment of the Gospel of Christ for
they know that God is at the Helm and that
He will not suffer His own work to be over-
thrown nor will the principle of a plurality of
wives, which He commanded should be estab-
lished ever be uprooted by the weak and pusil-
lanimous arm of flesh.
	We as a people have suffered little or noth-
ing from the outside world since this principle
was established when compared with our former
experience in Oho, Missouri and Illinois.
The pure in heart have accepted it as a Holy
principle and practiced it in the fear of God,
who because of our sacrifice, has made us the
happiest people upon this earth and we are
willing to suffer and even to die for it if neces-
sary, but we will never deny it, no never! and
no one need flatter themselves that the Lord
will give any new revelation to that effect.
The Almighty hat nothing to do with bogus
revelations which the peeners and rappers have
been decieving the world with for so many
years.
	Truth is mighty and like the point of a dia-
mond it cuts as it goes, and I say let her be
honored and let my right hand wither or for-
get its cunning rather than deny one of God's
sacred truths, to please or to avoid displeasing
a set of apostate Christians.  They only make
Polygamy an excuse to draw the attention of
the world to cover their own dishonest and hell-
ish schemes: to rob us and drive us again and
to accomplish this they would stoop to do any-
thing, even to wipe us from the face of the earth;
but we are protected by a power which is un-
known and unacknowledged by the world and
we think it very improbable that we shall feel
obliged to move from here until the set time
of the Lord shall come.  The Latter-day Saints
have an inheritance in Jackson County, Miss-
ouri where the New Jerusalem is to be built,
and from present appearances one might easily
be led to believe, that this glorious event was
to be realized sooner than we had anticipated.
The Lord is able to soften or to harden the
hearts of men just as He sees fit, as He did in
the case of Pharaoh; to bring to pass His own
purposes, and if He suffers our foes to triumph
for a little season - it will be only in fulfillment
of the words of the prophets and we shall see
then who the Saints are, and who are the hyp-
ocites and every thing that is done to injure
us will serve to knit the hearts of the Saints
more closely together, and God grant that, that
time is not far distant; for our greatest troubles
have been traced to the treachery of men
and women who have been nourished and cher-
ished here in our midst, and our most bitter
opposers have been proven invariably to be
among the most wicked, licentious and corrupt

[Column 2]
portion of society and we have abundant
proofs, that such is the character of the most
polite, sleek and kid-gloved representatives of
our nation, who have perverted its laws and
are legislating and planning how to make slaves
of free-born American Citizens.
	Years ago the low lived plotters and schemers
threatened to place our fathers, brothers, hus-
bands and sons in chains and dungeons, but
found this a more intricate job than they had
anticipated, and it seems to me they have tried
almost every imaginable plan to bring us under
their feet, but every move they have made has
had the very opposite effect from what they
designed, and in spite of them prosperity has
attended this people.  They have ridiculed,
misrepresented and sworn falsely year after
year, and are still blindly pursuing the same
courses until their own feet are becoming en-
tangled in the very net which they have lain to
ensnare the "Mormons".
	Surely the wisdom of their wise men has
perished, and the understanding of their prud-
ent men are hid.
	How laudable is the course of these sectarian
demigogues who are uniting and gathering to-
gether their forces to rend asunder family ties,
to gore, and drive to desperation a virtuous in-
dustrious intelligent and common-sense, mind-
their-own business people who with sweat and
honest toil have made their homes and cities,
desirable. A little unarmed and defenceless col-
ony who came here years ago because we could
not be allowed the enjoyment of the rights
guaranteed us by the constitution of our coun-
try to worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences; where we hoped to
dwell in peace and harmony unmolested by
wars, strife and contentions, and these blessings
we would be enjoying to day had not the rulers
of this nation departed from and trampled un-
der foot this same sacred constitution.  Many
Saints are still living who heard the Prophet
prediet this calamity, and he also said that this
people would rise up and save the Constitution
and bear it off triumphantly.
	I remember a time when the sympathies of
some of our far-off sisters were suddenly awak-
ened to the awfully degraded and suffering
condition of the poor, down-trodden women of
Utah, and some no doubt were honest, but
their liege lords thought themselves exceedingly
cunning when they proposed to grant us female
suffrage. which we received with thanksgiving
to the God of Israel, who we knew had moved
upon them to do this act; but they found too
late that their sympathies were entirely mis-
placed; for, to their awful chagrin and discom-
fiture, instead of releasing ourselves from the
supposed bondage of "Mormon" rule, we still
remained faithful to our our religion, which we
held the most sacred and clung to our own
husbands for protection from the vile and inhu-
man clutches of those pretended friends and
sympathizers.  They decided the grapes to be
sour. and the cry went forth "Disfranchise
the Mormon women!"
	Oh, ye speculators and pious (?) hypocrites -
professed champions of virtue! we could read
your thoughts and motives then as plainly as
we do to-day. Polygamy, and all your pity
for the poor, down-trodden Mormon women was
only an excuse, and a most feeble one, too.  I
would like to know how many there were who
pitied us when forced to leave our homes and
property in the beautiful city of Nauvoo, to
cross the Mississippi on the ice in the cold,
bleak month of February, 1846, enduring un-
told suffering for months, being destitute of
sufficient bedding, clothing, wagons or teams to
take us to Council Bluffs.  Being the intention
of Brigham Young to cross the Rocky Moun-
tains that year, we were placed upon rationed
meals, consisting some of the time of the fol-
lowing luxuries: parched corn meal cake and sea
biscuit or crackers broken into thin porridge o

[Column 3]
gruel, for which I had no relish, and forced to
travel a portion of every day on foot, to favor
the poor teams, which would sink deep into the
soft and muddy prairies; exposed to cold. most
of us being minus umbrellas to shield our
heads from the pitiless storms of snow, sleet,
wind or rain, and then under the scorching
beams of the summer's sun.  No matter how
weary, sick or wayworn we were, we still plod-
ded along day after day. often making but
three miles a day, the next camping place
being in sight of where we had pitched our
tents the night before.  Having no bridges to
cross the ravines, we had to make our own
roads as we went along; and these perils by
the way lasted until we stopped at Garden
Grove, when some of our men went down to
Missouri to work and to trade for cows, teams
and provisions which afforded some temporary
relief.  My faith during those days was hardly
equal to the trials, and time, with all its
changes, has not had power to efface them from
my memory.  If we ever stood in need of
sympathy, it was then.  But who cared for
"Mormons," or how the poor women and chil-
dren were faring when the strength of our
companies was taken to fight for the nation in
its war against Mexico - the nation that had
refused us their protection and driven us out
to die! Then our only alternative was to seek
for winter quarters, where the lone graveyard
lays a silent but sure witness against them.
	None of their ministers of the Gospel or gen-
tle sisters of charity sought us out during those
dark days of trial, nor did they care for our
welfare either temporal or spiritual - whether
our souls or our bodies were saved or lost, un-
til after "Mormon" boys had discovered a
gold mine in California; and while the gold
fever raged, the Gentiles were very glad to fol-
low in the trail of "Mormon" pioneers, who
had made the roads, built the bridges and pre-
pared a half-way place, where the impatient
and reckless gold diggers were glad enough to
find friends, where they could exchange their
exhausted teams for a fresh supply of cattle,
horses and mules to take them on to the gold
diggings.
	We could forgive them if they would ever
leave us alone, but can never forgot the trials
and sufferings passed through during that long
and terrible journey.  In that fearful time my
own health was wrecked and my life made one
of martyrdom, brought upon me by exposures,
hardships and privations, which I with the rest
of the Saints was subjected to during our exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in the settling of this
far of and once barren country.  And for all
of this needless suffering we are indebted to
this nation, which it seems is now to be con-
trolled by priestcraft and sectarian bigots, and
they will ere long find that there is a big ac-
count laid up against them, which must be
settled sooner or later.
	The world may call us fools, or dupes to our
leaders, if they wish; we have become accus-
tomed to that, as we have to a thousand other
like falsehoods, and we can bear more than
any other people living.  But we protest
against this intolerant and inhuman course
which is now being taken towards an innocent
and law-abiding people; and as the natural in-
stinct of our nature is self-preservation, and if
a pack of interlopers should intrude themselves
upon us and try to take away our rights, and
trample us down, as they wish to it would be
very natural for us to say, "hands off!" and
we might possibly lose our tempers; for, if
forced to it, rather than let an enemy inhabit
my home, which is very dear to me, or become
their slave, I would apply the torch to it with
as much equanimity as we should have done
when we left this city in 1858, which threat
would have been carried into effect, had not
the Lord overruled it by causing fear to come
upon our invaders, which humbled them, and


brought an everlasting stigma upon our once
free and happy government. No free-born
American can become a slave, for that spirit
of independence and love of liberty which we
have inherited, not only from our New Eng-
land sires, but have nursed it from our moth-
er's breasts, revolts at the thought of submit-
ting to slavery; and I wish all to understand
that I am proud of this legacy, and glory in
the knowledge that it has been handed down
to my children. And should this be anything
strange, born as they have been in the midst of
persecution, with the memory of robbings,
drivings and bloodshed rankling in our bosoms,
wrongs for which we have sought in vain for
redress? These questions we leave for some of
the wiseacres to answer.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of a meeting held in the 5th Ward
Meeting House Salt Lake City, Feb. 6th,
1882, for the purpose of organizing a Primary
Association. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith
presiding.
	Singing by the children; prayer by Sis-
ter Horne. Sister Eliza asked the children
if they prayed and asked blessings on their food
told them that in the time of Joseph Smith, the
children had little meetings and bore testimony
and had the good spirit with them. Gave some
good counsel on obedience to those placed over
them, and on politeness to their companions.
She then proceeded to organize the Society, the
following persons were sustained as officers:
Myra Winter, President; Elizabeth Clark,
First Counselor; Sarah Page,Second Counselor;
Esther Davey, Secretary, Emmeline Pettit,
Asst. Sec., Edwin Pettit, Treasurer. Number
enrolled as members sixty-four.
	Sister Horne then addressed the children in
a very interesting manner. Singing by the
children. Prayer by Sister E. R. S. Smith.
						E. DAVEY, Sec'y.

PROVO.

	The Relief Society held a special Conference
in Provo Thursday, Nov. 15, 1881. Mrs. M.
T. Smoot presiding. After singing and prayer
Ma Smoot made a few excellent remarks, and
then Sister E. R. Snow Smith addressed the
congregation. I am thankful that you and I
my sisters were worthy to come forth in this
dispensation, that we are a portion of the
favored ones, and I am proud to be associated
with the faithful who are trying to build up
Zion. Our duties are multiplying and will con-
tinue, and we find that to-day we can accomplish
what we once thought impossible. I think we
do not search those sacred books that God has
placed within our reach as much as we should.
If the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants could give us knowledge to find
gold, we would study them more than we do
now. We often wonder that we can forget
heavenly things and cling to that which is
earthly. God requires us to cling to that faith
by which the dead were raised and the sick
were healed. We need to draw nearer to our
God; but those things need not deprive a
mother from performing her daily, household
duties. She needs great faith to form the future
character of her children. I wish to speak to
mothers about sending their children to the
Primary Meetings. Children need constant
training and protection from the influences
that are creeping into our midst; do not neglect
your little ones mothers, let them go to their
meetings, or after awhile they will not want to
go. It is not of much use to educate the head

[Column 2]
if the heart is neglected, and if the Spirit of
God does not dwell in the heart. I often won-
der what we should have been if these societies
had not been organized. Let us be united and
put away every thing that is calculated to
devide. God has placed within our reach
means enough to insure our salvation. Who
are we? Why we are daughters of God! and
I once heard Joseph say that the least saint oc-
cupied a higher standing than kings or potent-
ates; but we all have to endure the trials of
life, for the Lord has said He would have a
tried people. If I had understood Plural Mar-
riage when I embraced it as I do to-day, it
would have been no trial to me; but I am
thankful to God that his grace was sufficient
for me, and if there are any here that do not
know for themselves that this principle is true,
let them seek to God for a testimony. God is
on our side we have nothing to fear from our
enemies they can go no farther than He is will-
ing; we want to have the peace of God within
us to strengthen both body and mind. Teach
your children the principle of tithing; teach
them by example; and it will be a principle in
their minds forever; let them grow up in the
habit of it, if you have but little get the bless-
ing of God upon it. I would rather have 90
cts with the blessing of God than the $1,00
without it. We were counseled last year, be-
ing the Jubilee year, to lend the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters. but that coun-
sel does not extend any farther than last year.
We are to go on storing up our grain as usual,
and after we give our wheat we have no more
claim on it; it belongs to the Lord, it is stored
up against a time of famine, not to be drawn
out till the Lord commands, it is sacred. I
pray that we may have the sweet commun-
ion of the holy spirit to be with us all, Amen.
	Ma Smoot: "I feel that I have been fed with
the words of eternal life, given by the holy in-
spiration of God, I feel grateful to the sisters
for meeting with us" etc, etc. Sister Louie
Felt "My mission lies more with the children
and I would entreat the mothers to send their
children to the Primary Meetings. We have
had a feast here this morning and I pray that the
words may sink deep into our hearts; my aim
is the same as yours,that we may make a bright
record for ourselves. I wish to say to my sis-
ters, let each one take the EXPONENT. My
prayer is that we may be faithful to the end.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith spoke on the contingent
fund for the Stake thought each society ought
to contribute to it, for what is the use of a
treasurer without a fund. Bishop Johnson;
I feel well in meeting with the sisters, I always
feel well paid although many will say I have no
time. Have we any time of our own? No! we
have not it is the Lord's. I was pleased to hear
the sisters speak on the subject of tithing; the sis-
ters should pay their tithing, and pay it cor-
rectly; I feel that we are a blessed people above
all other people and may God give us strength
to perform every duty is my prayer." Meeting
adjourned until 3 o'clock when the Primary
Associations of the city were to meet. The
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions to meet in the evening.
				CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.
MOUND FORT.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—On the 1st inst., a
meeting was held in the Mound Fort School
House for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society of the Ward, and organizing a Primary
Association. It was well attended by the sis-
ters, and children of the Ward. There were
present on the occasion, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, President of Weber Stake Relief Societies,
and Sister Harriet Brown, her first Counselor.
Sister E. Y. Stanford, Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Stake Primary Associations, Bishop

[Column 3]
David Moore, and others. After the usual
opening exercises, the meeting was adressed
by Sisters Richards and Brown, and Brother
Moore and Stowell. Their remarks were re-
plete with wisdom, were chiefly directed to the
young, on the importance of Primary Assocoa-
tions and the duties to be performed by them
when they were organized.
	A Primary Association was orgonized, with
the following officers: Ann Mary Taylor,
President; Sarah Barker, and Silva Stone
Counselors; Eveline Barker, Secretary; George
Taylor, Assistant sec'y. Eltrida Barker, Treas-
urer. Forty-nine members were enrolled.
After some excellent remarks by Sister Stanford
to the officers and members, in regard to their
duties, the Primary Association was dismissed,
and the Relief Society continued in session.
	On account of the failing health, Sister Moore,
President of the Society, felt that in her feeble
condition she could no longer attend to the
duties of her office, and therefore tendered her
resignation, Having at all times found in her
a wise counselor, a nature noble and self-sacri-
ficing for others, good and noble and willing
worker in the duties of the Society, her resigna-
ton was reluctantly accepted. The Society
was then re-organized as follows: Annie Tay-
lor, President; Dina Rollins First Counselor;
Diana Moore Second Counselor; Annie D.
Taylor Secretary; Marion Hatch,Assistant Sec.
Mary C. Barker Treasurer. Remarks were
then made by Sister Richards and Sister Moore,
complimentary to the Society for the good they
had done in the past, and exhorting them to
faithfulness in the future, and the meeting
was dismissed by singing and prayer.
			ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


REPLY TO EMILY SCOTT.

				BEAVER FEB. 14TH, 1882.

	DEAR EXPONENT.-The article by Emily
Scott was read by me with very deep interest,
but my daily duites are so are so pressing and I had
so much confidence that others of greater ability
would give the matter the attention which its
importance merits, that I excused myself from
replying to it, and looked forward to your next
issue with the expectation of great pleasure in
reading the able responses which I felt sure
would be made, But since all your best corre-
spondents seem to have been just of my mind, I
will even say a few words myself in behalf of
our much abused institution; though I hope the
lady realizes that in her short epistle, she has
asked questions enough that full and complete
replies would fill a volume; therefore I must
be content with only brief and partial answers,
at least for the present. The ocean is too vast
to be drained with my little tin cup.
	First, dear lady, bear in mind that we claim
a divine origin for our institution of plural mar-
riage; we consider it too vast and bold a scheme
for human good to have originated in the brain
of man. But, you object, it  is nothing new,
but a thing borrowed from ignorant, benighted
peoples.
	I hope to show you that our plan is as dif-
ferent from that of the Eastern Harems as day
is from night; and people who compare the two,
are not always anxious to do us justice.
	You have doubtless observed through life
that men and women are prone to see in others
the identical weakness or vice which is most
emphatic in themselves. For instance, the
man who is conscious of a lack of courage,
moral or physical, is ever ready to accuse others
of cowardice; seeming to think that thus he
will divert attention from his own weak point.
And the woman who habitually knows more
about her neighbors affairs than her own, is
not slow to call another a busybody when oc-
casion occurs.


Just so you will find it, on examination, with
those pious souls who "turn their eyes in horror
toward Utah," and who  talk so freely about
"pollution," "degradation" and "carnality,"
--not to mention more offensive terms--among
the Mormons.  I am not prepared to say there
are no exceptions to this rule, for of course
those remote from us, who have only report to
judge us by, are not to blame if their informa-
tion is not correct; but I know of no exception
among the "reformers" who come here profes-
sedly to teach us "civilization." Can you be-
lieve it? Some openly avow their preference
for open prostitution because--they say, "that
which a man buys and pays his money for is
honestly his." But they condemn as "filthy"
and all that, is vile an avowed marriage for time
and all eternity, responsible and proud fatherhood
and perfect chastity abroad. Any one who
reads the papers of the day, knows that sexual
depravity, in all its hideousness, is devouring
the men of this generation; besides thousands
of women, many of whom are of the purest and
most innocent of Eve's daughters. And it
would seem that no woman would dare to mar-
ry unless she were ignorant of the frightful
risks she incurs of allying herself to a monster
of personal uncleanness, and through him, to all
the "lost" women in her community.
	And when she finds herself thus victimized,
how bitterly might she reflect, that a man who
was already a kind and faithful husband, and
the father of blooming and happy children, in
these very facts gives pledges of his fitness to
become such to her. He is thus tested as she has
no possible means to test a single man. But
now you ask, "What of that wife and those
children he already has? Their feelings and
rights must be considered." Yes certainly.
The children are concerned in the question of
heritage; but under present conditions, es-
pecially among us, where a wife can have and
hold her own property during the lifetime of
the husband, instead of getting only an "incum-
brance" on one third of the joint stock after his
death, and owning not even her own apparel
while he lives, while, if there be no children,
the husband's relatives may claim two thirds--
here, I say, the matter of inheritance is less
affected, doubled by marriages than might be
the case elsewhere. And  the wife, if she is
steeped in tradition and has neither inspiration
nor information to open her mind to the cry-
ing need of the world, of purer homes, higher
motives in marriage, and better begotten, better
born children with which to people it, and if she
neither knows nor cares that in many cases mar-
riage as it is, is degradation without hope of res-
cue to many high minded, pure and noble wom-
en, she, of course will fret and waste her nervous
energy in jealous self-pity over the thought that
she gives all to her husband and receives in re-
turn only part of his attention, and regard.
And the more her inferior nature predominates
the more intense will be her self-torture, and
the more surely will she instil into the hearts
of her children her own shortsighted and self-
ish views, and thus render them turbulent and
disrespectful, first toward their father and other
members of the family, and afterwards without
fail they will become so toward herself and each
other; and thus she sets them as well as herself
outside the bounds of any blessings which might
accrue from the new plan of marriage, which
if rightly conducted, would be more like the
bond of union and strength among the sove-
reign states of our Republic than anything else
that I can compare it with.
	But suppose the wife to be well informed of
the condition of the world, its wickedness, its
woe, its cold-hearted and unabashed licentious-
ness on one hand and its consequent shame and
suffering on the other; though she never heard
of divine command on the subject, if she have
one spark of philanthropy in her soul, it must
seem that she would look upon her own chaste
God. Serving husband and wonder that any
save such as he should dare to wed a pure woman.
Then the baleful certainty that such as he are
few and far between, would suggest that his
love could safely shelter others besides herself;
and viewing the case in this light, women are
not few who would be largehearted enough to
willingly share their havens of refuge with
other good women, if only it could be done
without incurring a greater avalanche of scorn
and opprobium, than even that which follows
the unfortunates who have fallen into the
snares set for the feet of the unwary by the
friends whose delight is in their downfall.
	It is exemplified among us that some are
even brace enough to disregard that, but it
cannot be expected of all, at least not yet.
But oh, how are the might fallen, when she
who through love of God and humanity, freely
entered this ideal state, grows faint-hearted or
lets her lamp become extinguished, and begins
to repine, who after putting her hand to the
plow, finds that she has misjudged her strength
and turns back in the furrow. Self-distrust,
the cruelest of tortures, becomes her constant
companion, and she is unhappy and very apt to
make others so.
	Those who might enter this state heedlessly
or in ignorance of its vast significance must be
content to find "marriage a lottery;" though I
hope you will pardon me for thinking they in-
cur less risk of drawing a blank, than if the
marriage were monogamic, for I must consider
that the man who has the courage to contract
such a marriage in the face of the storm of rage
and menace which monogamy is now rolling up
against us, is something of a hero whatever
faults he may have.
	Mormon wives as a rule do not "worry about
bearing children."
	"Mormonism" in and of itself fosters a desire
to rear children, and the more devout the be-
liever, the more anxious to rear "a noble pos-
terity." It is the end and aim, the point and
focus, the heart and soul of Mormonism to im-
prove the human race; and this aim, however
falteringly pursued, at once dignifies and ex-
alts motherhood to such an extent as to set it
above and beyond all other pursuits and call-
ings, and you can easily see that in such a case,
womanhood cannot be degraded, nor matern-
ity become burdensome and undesireable except
indeed for physical and exceptional reasons.
	We cannot deny our weaknesses, our stumbl-
ings by the way, our failures in living up to
our high professions, but God himself cannot
do perfect work with imperfect materials, and
so we trust in Him, and do the best we can, hop-
ing our children, untrammelled by the tradi-
tions and inwrought prejudices which hamper
us, may accomplish more in one decade than
we in ten.
	I see that your swift thoughts have outrun
my slow words and arrived at my conclusion
ahead of me.
	Polygamy, as we view it, is not fit for the
giddy, the selfish and the wicked, but only for
the noble, the wise, the pure and the far-seeing.
It is a self-evident fact that the higher the em-
inence attained, the greater the disaster which
attends a fall, and in my humble opinion none
should enter upon this greatest of modern re-
forms without a large portion of that sublime
philanthropy and absence of selfishness, which
led Jesus to endure ignominy and torture to
bless a sinful world.
							Lu Dalton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AT TEASDEL'S
		SALT LAKE CITY

	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets; Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
				[---] TEASDEL.

		[Column 2]
	A COMPETENT MIDWIFE IS WANTED TO LOCATE
	permanently at Castle Dale [--] Emery County. Special
inducements offered. Correspondence solicited.
	Address:		BISHOP JASPER PETERSON.
					Castle Dale, Emery [--], Utah.

			DR. A. B. DUNFORD
				DENTIST.
					SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
					to filling and Preserving the
[picture]				Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
					Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
					from one [---] [---] [---] in the
					Most Approved Manner. PRICES
					to Suit the Times and First Class
					Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.

				Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
		DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
			HEAVY & SHELF HAFDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
		AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

				THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
			BEST SELECTED STOCK of
			BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS
		Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
			Children's Fine Shoes
						Your Orders are Solicited.
					GEO. DUNFORD

				FOR SALE.
			Home-Made SILK,
					AT
	CUTLER'S COMMISSION STORE.

			A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOUSE MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	[---],		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
				MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to  call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velevet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers; Feathers, Plushes, Velevet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
					-HAVE-
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
			Spring and Summer Goods.

			DAVID JAMES,
	TINNER, CAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER[--]
			FURNITURE,
SPRING. BEDS, WIDE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
				AND
			BABY CARRIAGES.
		75,77, & 79, First South Street,

			SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

