ON THE ORGANIZATION OF PRIMARIES.

	Having been called upon to give an address
I will try and do so, trusting that I may be
directed by the right spirit.
	The first Primary Association was organized
in Farmington, Davis Co., Utah on the 11th
of Aug. 1878,—with Aurelia S. Rogers,Presi-
dent; Louisa Haight and Helen M. Miller,
Counselors; Rhoda H. Richards Secretary; and
Clara A. Leonard, Treasurer. As the move
was a new one our Bishop, John W. Hess,
suggested that we visit the ward and get the
names of all the children between the ages of
five and fourteen years, which was accordingly
done; a meeting was then appointed which
was the commencement of Primaries. Soon
afterwards a Primary was organized in the
11th ward, Salt Lake City, with Louie Felt,
President.
	The aim and object of these meetings, is not
for me to speak upon today, but it is probably
well known that your humble servant was an
instrument in the hands of God in helping to
bring them about. Although I may have been
the originator of the idea of such a move, to
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith should be given
the credit of doing the most work. It was
Sister Eliza, who in company with Sister
Zina D. Young and others, traveled through
the Territory of Utah, and with the assistance
of the Bishop organized a Primary in nearly
every settlement. It was Sister Eliza who
compiled the Primary hymn book, also pre-
pared a book of questions and answers on the
Bible, two Primary Speakers, and a tune book 
for the songs that had been selected. And
may the name of Sister Eliza be remembered
with honor, by the children of the Latter-day
Saints. Up to this time there had been no
one appointed to preside over the whole. In
April 1880, while attending a Primary meet-
ing in the 12th ward. over which Sister Ellen
C. Clawson presided, Sister Eliza who was
present came to me and said that it was thought
best to have some one chosen to preside over
all the Primary Associations in the Territory;
and suggested that the person selected should
reside in Salt Lake City, as that was central
she asked me who I would propose to take
this position. I told her I could not tell on
so short a notice, but would reflect for a few
minutes. After doing so the name of Sister
Louie Felt came to my mind; as soon as I told 
Sister Eliza she said that was her choice, and
was also Sister Clawson’s choice; this satisfied
me that Sister Felt was the one to hold this
important office, and I have all confidence in
her and have a love for her, which love I
think is necessary for us to have toward those
who preside over us.
	Sister Felt commenced her labors in this
new calling in June of the same year,
with Matilda M. Barratt, and Clara C. Cannon,
as her Counselors; Lillie T. Freeze, Secretary;
and Minnie Felt, Treasurer. Later on through
the resignation of Sister Barratt, Lillie T.
Freeze was chosen first counselor, and May
Anderson, secretary.
	The next thing to be done was to appoint
Presidents over the Primaries in each Stake,
Sister Ellen Clawson, who has charge of the
Associations in Salt Lake Stake, was the first
one called to this position, which was in June
1880. Afterwards you and I my sisters, or
many of you were chosen to fill these offices,
and may we fill our appointments with honor

[Column 2]
be helps indeed and try to have our reports
ready in time so they can be handed in at the
general conferences. This completed the or-
ganization of the Primaries up to the present
time.
	But the question might be asked, Are these
Associations necessary? Are not the day, and
Sunday schools sufficient for educating and
instructing our children? I will endeavor to
explain that these schools are not enough, ac-
cording to my way of thinking, and that Pri-
mary Associations are quite necessary. By
way of illustration I will liken the organiza-
tions of this Church to a fruit tree, which
when fully developed has a root, body,
branches and fruit, the leaves might be com-
pared to the clothing of the tree. In order to
make my comparisons plain, we will commence
at the beginning, when this Church was first
organized with six members on the 6th day of
April 1830, (it is understood that no woman
had her name enrolled at that time), the
priesthood of God was restored to the earth,
and this might be likened unto man as the
root of the tree. As time rolled on the gospel
spread and the Church grew till it formed
quite a body, and finally the Saints settled in
the beautiful City of Nauvoo. Then, and not
until then, was a Relief Society organized, the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself stated that such
an organization was necessary, and even
blessed and set apart certain sisters to preside
over the same. Our attention must now be
drawn to the fact that no man was a member
of said society or held any office therein.
	This organization then can be likened unto
woman as the body of the tree. We will now
skip over a lapse of years till the Saints have
arrived in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake,
have begun to make themselves comfortable
homes,and also raise up branches of the Church
in Europe and in other parts of the world.
About this time it was thought best by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, to have what was then
called a Retrenchment Association, especially
for young women. This was on account of the
fashion and style that prevailed in our midst
at the time, this move afterward led to an
organization of the Young Men, which was
the starting point of the Mutual Improvement
Associations. This we think will compare
with the branches of the tree. So far, we
have the tree in its perfect state, with the ex-
ception of the fruit, and this we all know is
the last to make its appearance, and even then
it takes some time to mature. In the summer
of 1878 Primary Associations were first thought
of and brought into existence, and through
the unceasing efforts of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith and others have been organized through-
out the Territory. If then Primaries are
typical of the fruit, we have the tree in all its
beauty.
	Before closing I will call attention to the
fact that all the Associations of the Saints are
centered in the Sunday School.
	For while the children assemble to be taught
there are young men and young women, who
assist in this work, also members of the Relief
Society, and even men holding the priesthood
who officiate as teachers and Superintendents
in this grand institution of the Church of
God.


Good manners is the art of making those
people easy with whom we converse; whoever
makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best
bred man in company.—Swift.

	Women govern us; let us render them per-
fect. The more they are enlightened, so much
more shall we be. On the cultivation of the
mind of the women depends the wisdom of the 
men. It is by women that nature writes on
the hearts of men.—Sheridan.


