IN MEMORY OF JANE M. WALTON.

	The members of the Monticello Relief Society
feel it a duty to record a few incidents from the
life and memory of Sister Jane M. Walton, who
was accidently killed on the night of July 24th;
last, (and whose death has already been pub-
lished). Sister Walton was born July 16th, 1846.
She with her mother, Sister Jane Hatch of Bounti-
ful, emigrated to Utah in her childhood.
	At the age of 20 she married Charles E. Wal-
ton of Bountiful. Three children, one boy and two
girls, came in turn to brighten their home. They
have now grown to man and womanhood.
	Sister Walton with her husband and family
were called upon the almost famous "San Juan
Mission," in 1879, traveling with the pioneers,
and settling with them at Bluff City. The com-
pany was over six months upon that weary
journey, being out all winter, but Sister Walton
was never known to complain, but regarded as
the life of the company, always giving words of
cheer, and trying to make others feel happy. She
has shared in all the hardships that the Saints of
San Juan have been known to pass throngh, liv-
ing in a wild country hundreds of miles from civi-
lization, and surrounded by Indians. When
starvation stared every one in the face, she was
the one to comfort. Her faith in God never
wavered, she said "It is by God's will that we are
here He will not let us starve," although her
bread was ground in a coffee mill for many weeks.
Sister Walton's house was always a gathering
place for both old and young. She was truly a
leader in society. Three years ago she and her
family were called to Monticello, where she has
resided since, enduring the trial of starting
another new home in a new country, her home
was just beginning to be comfortable. Sister
Walton was conceded by all to be a perfect
housekeeper. It was always a pleasure to her
friends to spend an hour at her home, its very
surroundings breathed peace and rest.
	Her faith in the Gospel was undying, she filled
a number of prominent positions in the women's
organizations of the Church, at the time of her
death.
	Her funeral took place July 26thth, the services
being held in the meeting house, Pres. F. A.
Hammond presiding.
	Consoling remarks were made by Bishop Jens
Nielson, Elders P. D. Lyman, Allan and Jones,


also Pres. Hammond who spoke at length upon
the good qualities of the deceased and family.
	A large number of Sister Walton's friends came
from Bluff to attend her funeral.
	The remains were borne by six of the brethren
friends of the deceased, from her residence to the
meeting house, the different Societies of Sisters
marching in order behind.
	The floral decorations were the offering of her
lady friends, and were beautiful. A long cortege
accompanied the remains to the grove where they
were placed in their last resting place, by affec-
tionate hands.
	Thus passed from our midst an honest and de-
vout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother. The hymns sang were, "White robes
are waiting for thee." "Over the river of death,"
and "Nearer my God to thee." Prayer was
offered by Elder K. Jones. 
				MARY M. JONES, Pres.
				ANNIE BAILEY, Coun.
				SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Sec.
	Other papers please copy.


