IN SACRED REMEMBRANCE.

	In our associations in life, how pleasant it is to
meet with spirits congenial, especially in visiting
the sick and afflicted.
	How joyful to meet with those whose faith and
confidence in God and His power is strong, with
the testimony of Jesus in their hearts.
	In memory of—and with love and respect, I
will refer to the many good times I have had with
our much respected, and beloved sister, Emeline
M. Benedict, whose funeral rites were solemnized
 at her late residence in the Ninth Ward in this
City, Thursday morning, Oct. 1st. Being ac-
quainted with our dear sister many years and her
acquaintance with my mother also, in my youth,
I had the pleasure of taking a few notes from her
own lips.
	When conversing with her about the beginning
of the Church. the power of God, manifested at
that time through the gifts belonging to the
Gospel, she bore a faithful testimony, filled with
the spirit of the Lord, to what she knew to be
true.
	Speaking of her early experience she says:—
	"I left N. Y., in 1841 or '42; your mother was
the first female Mormon I ever saw in N. Y., I
think she was the first messenger of her sex that
came into the Church at that place, and your
grandmother, Mrs. Ann Rhodes embraced the
Gospel soon after. I have heard your mother,
Eliza Rhodes Dollinger, speak in tongues, and I
always felt that her's was the true gift from God,
that there was no mistaking the power by which
she spoke, and by that was led to investigate. 
We lived on L. I., together, also in N. Y. We
attended the same school as girls, and together
embraced the same Gospel; almost if not at the
same time. We were always intimate, and how
we loved each other in those days when we first
learned the true Gospel. Brother Lucian R.
Foster, was the first President of the Brooklyn
Branch of the N. Y. Conference. I was first
baptized by Elder Daniel Lane and I am not sure
but he baptized your mother too. Your grand-
mother was converted through your mother's in-


fluence, but it was through great hardships and
persecution that she became a member of the
Church. A Brother Whaley and wife embraced
the Gospel also but fell by the wayside. Your
mother was so pure in heart and principle that
I never doubted one action of her life; her
promptings were of the Holy Spirit; she was a
mighty speaker in bearing testimony of the things
of God, and we all loved her so; we had our
evening meetings and they were so sacred and
holy to us, we never thought of neglecting them
for any thing else, O, yes, I remember well, and
the more we talk, the better I feel, and many
more things come to my mind, which perhaps,
will be interesting another time."
	Sister Benedict's house in the East was a refuge
for the Saints at all times and they loved to gather
there, and she was honored in death with the
presence of Pres. Woodruff and Pres. Joseph F.
Smith who attended the funeral services.
	Blessed and sacred be the memory of Dear
Sister Emeline Benedict, for her good works will
live while her mortal remains await in peace the
resurrection morn, when she will rise with the
just and rejoice with the saints of God, clothed
with immortality and eternal life, where sickness,
sorrow, pain and death is no more.
								C. D. P.


