			ASSOCIATION.

	The women writers of the Pacific Coast
held a very successful three days' Convention
in San Francisco, Commencing Sept. 21st,
which included six business sessions, and one
public entertainment on the evening of the 23rd.
At the private meetings the following subjects
were discussed:
	First "Criminal Advertising and the Method 
of suppressing it;" second, "How to Promote
Immigration to our Coast;" third, "The Pres-
ent Apparent Arrest of Business Progress in
the West and its Cause;" fourth, "Newspaper
Work Beneficial to the Community;" fifth
"The Newspaper's Part in Social Economy;"
sixth, "The Difficulties besetting Women Pub-
lishers and Editors;" seventh, "The Line of
Work to be taken up by the Association as
a Whole to Create a Unity of Purpose."
	The Officers for the year are Nellie B.
Eyster, President; Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon)
1st Vice President; Sarah B. Cooper, 2nd
Vice President; Jeanne C. Carr 3rd Vice
President; E. T. Y. Parkhurst, Cor. Sec.; M.
V. Lewis, Assistant Cor. Sec.; Emily B.
Powell, Recording Sec.; S. T. D'Evelyn, Ass't.
Recording Sec.; M. L. Hoffman, Treasurer;
Isabel Raymond, Auditor; S. E. Reamer,
Librarian; Hannah L. Neal, Elwood Cooper,
and A. C. Waterman, Executive Committee.
	The Public Entertainment was an unquali-
fied success, Union Square Hall was literally
packed, and many were unable even to get in-
side the doors. There was a charming address
by the President, in which among other things
she told that the membership of the P. C. W.
P. A. has reached 150. Miss E. D. Keith
(Di Vernon) and Miss Adeline Knapp dis-
coursed brilliantly, the former about "A
Choice of Subjects," the latter on "Hints to 
would-be Newspaper Writers." Mrs. Emily
B. Powell, Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
Mrs. Lillian Plunkett recited beautiful original
poems;" and Mrs. Alice Kingsbury Cooley
gave a dramatic reading from her latest novel
"Asaph." The musical portion of the pro-
gramme was sustained by Miss Jerome; Miss
Grayce Howell, Mrs. Marian Taylor, and
Messrs. H. Kirke White, Martinez, Northrup,
and H. Clay Wysham.
	To the great regret of the members, Mrs.
E. T. Y. Parkhurst was prevented by illness
from being present and giving her paper on
the Duties of a Corresponding Secretary,"
which was a loss not easily bridged over and
many were the loving speeches privately
uttered about the much valued absentee. Mrs.
A. C. Waterman too was unable to read her


paper through sickness; another cause of re-
gret! but these were the only shadows that
dimmed the brightness of this, the 1st Annual
Convention of an Association which is already
a power for good on the Coast, and we wish
our friends in Utah to unite with California in
wishing the cause "God Speed."
