	    THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

	There is so much in the present day of the
material and practical to be met with, and people
are so swallowed up and environed about with
all sorts of problems that tend to develop these
faculties of human nature; there is really so much
realism and the age seems to have developed
these attributes, and of necessity too, for the
new forces, and inventions, demand it, and also
require means as well as method to bring
to perfection the new discoveries of science, that
as a race, we are somewhat in danger of losing
sight of higher endowments, or going backward
in other directions.
	The push and rush for gain, the excitement and
rivalry for business success, and the ambition for
popularity in public life, coupled with the race
after pleasure, or recreation, which follows ex-
cessive toil in the accumulation of wealth, these
seem to discount the sober pursuits of former
days; and the simpler pastimes and amusements
that were the delight of our forefathers and fore-
mothers; are not to be thought of in this fast age
of excitement and high living. The tranquility
of those days has almost passed away, and instead
of that we have the extreme of hilarity, the high
tide of popularity, and the excess of vanity. This
is the spirit of the world, and if persisted in will
eventually kill out the spirituality and tenderer
sentiments, refinements and graces, those that
sweeten and purify the atmosphere of human life,
and give zest and tone to the higher attributes
that lead to the cultivation of heart and mind;
and we shall find to our sorrow that though we
have gained knowledge of material and practical
things and have surpassed every other age in
improvements of a temporal kind, we have not
secured unto ourselves that jewel above all others
which we need most to brighten and adorn our
own souls, and without which, all else will pal[-]
upon the senses; the cultivation of our own
hearts; the lessons that we can only learn through
obeying the laws of God; the golden rule, to do
to others as we would they should do to us, to
love our neighbor as ourselves; to imitate Him
who went about doing good, to forgive as He for-
gave; to overcome our own weaknesses, our love
of self, of self-aggrandizement, to become as
little children, to be willing to trust our Heavenly
Father, and believe He is able to make us strong
wherein we are weak, to love one another as
Jesus loved us; to suffer if need be. Do we not
all need to stop now and then and consider
whether we are living for today, or if there is not
something greater and higher and more endurable
than what we lay bold of so greedily in the race
of life.
	Especially the Latter-day Saints who have
come out of the world, many of whom have left
their possessions of a worldly nature for the sake of
the Gospel, strange indeed that they should think
<column 2>
these grosser things of such great importance, as 
to neglect the spiritual.
	And this it is that often causes people to fall
into darkness, and error, and unbelief in the
things they once knew and testified to, and lose
the spirit that leads into all truth.
	How careful should we all be to keep continu-
ally with us the spirit of humility and obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel. Remember
too the admonitions of the Savior to the ruler who
asked Him what he should do to inherit eternal 
life? And Jesus said “Thou knowest the com-
mandments;” and He repeated some of them to
him, and the ruler replied, “all these have I kept
from my youth up.”
	Jesus answering said, “Yet thou lackest one
thing, sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto
the poor, then thou shalt have treasures in
heaven, and come follow me.”
	It is not only necessary to be exemplary in our
lives but to make some sacrifices, of those
things we hold as treasures, perhaps almost as
idols, to lay those upon the altar, without murmuring
and trust in God, is indeed approaching to that
sublimity of character that will secure eternal
blessings. The Savior said unto Peter, on one
occasion, “There is no man that hath left home
or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for
the kingdom of God’s sake, who shall not receive
manifold more in this present time, and in the
world to come life everlasting.” 
	Such are the promises held out to those who
are willing to make sacrifices, to pass through
trials, and to endure privation and affliction, and 
still hold fast to their integrity. 
	In order to endure with meekness and forbear-
ance the various vicissitudes and experiences that
beset the people of God, who are trying to serve
Him, it is specially necessary to put away selfish-
ness, to be self-sacrificing as well as to bestow
goods to the poor; and this is the hardest task of
all to men and women, and harder perhaps in this
day of prosperity and comparative grandeur, than
it was in the days of adversity and primitive sim-
plicity. To give out of the abundance the Lord
has given is easy compared to some other things.
	Though we are surrounded today as a people
with many temporal blessings, yet we are getting
some hard lessons; they are exceedingly inter-
esting to those who have learned thoroughly
some of the simpler ones given long ago, but to
those idle students, who have looked on while
others were learning, they are indeed difficult to
comprehend. In fact the Latter-day Saints have
got into the higher mathematics. It will be abso-
lutely necessary to have both faith and works,
and those who have cultivated the spiritual sense
will be able to cope with the abstruse problems
presented, far better than those who depend en-
tirely upon their reasoning powers. There are
many things that transpire in the course of one’s
life, that cannot be reasoned out conclusively,
notwithstanding materialists will tell you so. And
to the sincere and devout Christian these are not
stumblings blocks to faith in God, but testimonies
of an over-ruling power that increase the bond
of faith, that chain which unites the finite with
the infinite. It is the spark of divinity awakened
within the soul, that gives light to the mind, and
enables those who suffer, to grow stronger in faith
and brighter in the hope and assurance of the
future, and animates them with a desire to go on
to perfection, and to reach out a helping hand to
others, to all “our Father’s” children, to teach
them the lessons the Saints are trying to learn
more perfectly, for in the happiness of others in-
dividual happiness consists. And knowing our
own weaknesses and shortcomings, we should
grow to be charitable to others.
	As our minds enlarge, and we become enlight-
ened with that true knowledge of spiritual things
we see, as we had never been able to see before
the great need we have of being clothed with
<column 3>
the mantle of charity, that we may do good to our
fellows; we cannot approach them without love,
it is the great lever of the universe, love that will
uplift them, the love our Savior exemplified in
His life, the love which is the outgrowth of faith
that softens and subdues evil passions, and
counteracts evil influences.
	This is not the love of riches, or of power,
or of worldly pleasures, it is something
far above them; the humblest Latter-day Saint
may possess this supreme gift, if he or she lives
for it, though they may be dwelling in the lowliest
cot, or even in a tent; how often do we hear the
expression “We were far happier in the days of
our poverty, we had less anxiety, and annoy-
ances.” It is not wealth that brings content,
then why seek it graspingly, at the risk, of better
things?
	It reminds the writer of a simile used by the
Prophet Joseph and which was often repeated by
one of his brethren (now long since passed away)
speaking of men who had the disposition to
grasp everything within their reach, Joseph said 
it reminded him of a child (who invariably as we
all know) when picking up apples would fill his
apron as full as he could, but so long as he could
see an apple he would keep on trying to carry
more than the apron would hold and leave no
place to hold on to when down would go the
whole apronfull rolling away from him one after
another and all was lost—moral, “don’t grasp
more than you can carry or you may lose all.”
It would be a most deplorable thing if this people
should, because of worldly prosperity, grow proud
and haughty, and look down upon the poor and
lowly; who perhaps many of them might be their
superiors in intelligence and perchance in educa-
tion too—the Lord said to the Nephites,“Beware of
pride.” And the Book of Mormon teaches
many lessons upon this subject that the Saints
could well profit by.
	It cannot be denied that the Lord has blessed
this people“in their basket and in their store,”but
it is to be hoped they will not forget that they are
only stewards, and must use wisely the means
placed in their hands. One often hears the remark,
“such a one has talent he ought to cultivate it for
the good of others, to bless and benefit mankind,
he is culpable if he does not develop such gifts,”
and yet men whom the Lord has blessed with riches
seldom think it necessary to use it for the bene-
fit of others; in both cases, it is doubtless the
duty of the possessor to assist others, and so also
should those who have the gift of faith, not hide
it under a bushel, but apply it in a way to bless
mankind. Opportunities for doing good are all
around us, and they should not be overlooked. A
kind word is sometimes more acceptable than
an expensive gift. Kindness, gentleness, for-
bearance, these are all virtues, of great value in
our daily lives, that will increase and add to the
happiness of others and the loveliness of the hu-
man character. Great things are made up of
trifles, the world itself is composed of atoms; the
smallest courtesies we can render to those with
whom we are associated help to bind us more
closely in their affections. Too often in the pur-
suit of some pet scheme, some far-off bauble we
overlook the pearl that lies close to us, lucky for
us if we do not crush it in our haste to push on-
ward. The Savior said “whoso shall offend one
of these little ones, which believe in me, it were
better for him that a millstone were hanged about
his neck, and that he were drowned in the depths
of the sea.” How tender then ought we to be of
each other, especially in times of trials and per-
plexity, never wound another’s feelings, or exult
in any sorrow, or misfortune that may overtake
even those who have injured us. The Savior
taught us to forgive as we would be forgiven, and
in His marvelous language said, “Love your
enemies bless them that curse you, &c" Would


we could always have the sublime courage to
carry out in our lives these divine teachings.


