IN RURAL ENGLAND.

V

	Sir Edward Hilliard sitting in dressing
gown and slippers in his luxurious apartments
was a striking type of the English aristocrat of
the last century. It was a cold, raw November
day, he was now getting on famously, his
appetite was good and he slept well, thanks to
the good nursing, the Dr. said, and yet, one
familiar with his countenance would observe
that he was troubled. it was his mind more
than his body that hindered his entire recovery;
he was low-spirited, almost melancholy on this
dull leaden morning, as he sat facing the
fire.
	Miss Conway had occasionally reminded
Dr. Bland that her uncle was quite well
enough to be made acquainted with the secret
she had inadvertently entrusted to him, and
that morning after leaving the convalescen's
room the Dr. had replied to her questioning
"all in good time, leave that to me, don't
venture upon such dangerous ground again,
another such scene might be his death."
Miss Conway felt "better his death han his
daughter's dishonor;" but she checked herself
and replied, "Dr. Bland I will not remain in
this house, unless my uncle is soon informed of
the true condition of the matter, which weighs
so heavily on my mind."
	"In that case Miss Conway you would leave
this uuprotected girl without a single female
friend to advise her, is that your idea of right?
she is your cousin, you are of one family, you


[Column 1]
﻿confess you have not spoken freely to her,
love will do more than anger, her father may
drive her to take a step she will never cease
to regret; perchance you may be a savior, try
what love will do for this misguided cousin of
yours."
	Miss Conway burst into tears, the Dr. waited,
and when she found voice, she said, “I will
make another effort to dissuade her from
clinging to the remembrance of this fascination
she seems to have for Maitland Walton.
Who he is I know not except that Anna tells
me he is of good family, proud and wealthy,
and his mother is a queen in society.”
	"You did not tell me his name before, now I
can understand better why he comes unbidden,
thereby hangs a tale, a love affair in the days
past and gone, and it seems uncommonly
strange that young Walton should find his
way here, and fall in love with Lady Anna,
his mother cannot possibly know it, and now
my mission I find is indeed a hard one.”
	"Dear me," and the Doctor looked very
serious, “could it be Sir Edward mistrusted
who this intruder was, on that inauspicious
morning when he fell senseless to the floor.”
	Miss Conway bewildered almost by what
the Dr. had said, began to realize how
complicated the affair was growing to be, and
she scarcely knew whether she ought not to
fly from it all and seclude herself somewhere,
leaving fate to do its worst. In this state of
mind Dr. Bland left her; both were puzzled,
and wanted time to reflect in fact to be
alone; for when some weighty matter must be
adjusted, it should be looked at on all sides
and so thought Dr. Bland, as he rode slowly
homeward muttering all the way to himself, a
habit he had when much disturbed. Miss
Conway was sitting in the library after this
conversation pondering upon what had been
said, and dreading to go up to her uncle’s
room, when in flew her cousin in great haste,
her face in a glow of excitement her large
lustrous eyes beaming with delight, her silken
robe trailing gracefully and holding in her
dainty white hands a letter. “See cousin mine,
Mr. Walton has written me the sweetest letter
I have ever read, can you doubt him now?
He will soon be able to declare himself openly,
and asks me to tell you; he has some business
affairs of his own to arrange, and if by that
time his mother still refuses to allow him his
own choice, then he will brave her displeasure;”
the enthuastic girl could scaacely control her
voice she was so elated with her first love
letter and with the idea that she could now
silence all her cousin’s objections; she believed
as sincerely in her lover’s fidelity as though he
had made an honorable proposal.
	Cousin Jade stood aghast while the excited
girl reiterated the assertions of this ardent
young man, and when she paused to take
breath exclaimed, “And you believe all this,
and will go on trusting him without inform-
ing your father?”
	Lady Anna had not expected this, she
thought the letter which so delighted her would
satisfy even the punctilious cousin.
	Take the letter to your father dear Anna,
he will be able to judge of this young man’s
motives, men of his experience are far-sighted
in these things, and do not decide hastily, he
may know the family of this young man and
that is something, depend upon it in any case
he will give the best advice regarding the
interest of his own child!’’
	"My dear cousin I cannot, I am under the
most sacred promise not to reveal our friend-
ship;—you accidently learned of it through
some suspicion, and followed me"—here
Lady Anna paused and turned deathly pale,
her cousin feeling the conversation was likely
to result, in a scene, which might prove
disastrous to her own calculations, changed
the subject by saying, ‘‘I must go and attend

[Column 2]
to your father shall I tell him of the letter ”
“No, No, wait until he is well and by that
time, there will be a change in affairs and
Mr. Walton will speak out; I hope so at all
events for unless he does I may be away; by
the bye, my father mentioned the other day
that he should go abroad as soon as he had
recovered sufficiently, and take you and I with
him, be wants to spend the winter in Italy or
some warm climate how would you like that?”
	“I should like, it very much indeed, and I
believe it would be beneficial to your health
dear, and besides travel improves and develops
one’s mind wonderfully and I have always
had a desire to see the continent, and have
never yet had an opportunity of journeying
anywhere except in England.” Each of the
young girls had tried to divert the other's
attention from the subject heretofore under
discussion, and for a moment it really was in
part forgotten, by the thoughts of travel.
Those were not the days of fast trains and
steamers and a journey to France or Italy was
quite a serious matter.
	Further conversation was interrupted by the
maid who came to summon them both to the
Baronet’s room; they hastened with some
trepidation not knowing what the call was for,
and both of them fearing they knew not what.
Once inside Sir Edward burst forth complain-
ingly—about being left alone, on such a dis-
mal morning reproaching his daughter bitterly
for her lack of affection for “her poor old father,”
and declaring in the most vehement
language, that he would leave the house as
soon as he could get out, and she should be
left alone, adding “and I’ll see that you are
kept within proper bounds, there shall be no
gay young men coming here when I’m away,
your cousin shall take you in charge.” Lady
Anna was so shocked and bewildered that she
lost her self possession entirely and dropped
the letter she had been trying to conceal upon
the floor. “What’s that” almost screamed her
father, “a letter, let me have it! Jane that letter
hand it to me!” Anna was pale as ashes, she
sank down upon the nearest chair, while her-
cousin picked up the offensive little white-
winged messenger, and with all the composure
possible placed it in her uncle’s hands. “A
man’s hand and addressed to my child without
my consent, the scoundrel, how dare he,” and
his hands shook, "here Jane read this to me,
and mind you read it correctly, stay fetch me
my glass. I’ll read for myself—and adjusting
the glass he looked at the signature, it was
enough—it was his turn now, his face grew
livid with passion, his niece called far help,
and without a word he was carried to bed still
holding tight in his grasp the letter, turning
his face to the wall, he lay for hours without
speaking.
	Miss Conway waited with fear and tremb-
ling, and Anna sat sobbing and crying like a
child, where she had seated herself when she
dropped the letter that had caused all the
trouble—finally seeing no sign of any recogni-
tion on the part of this strong man stricken
down instantaneously—Jane left the room
followed closely by her cousin who was so
over-whelmed with emotion that she could not
restrain her anguish any longer, but clung to
her cousin, and, begged her to intercede with
her father for forgiveness. "I dare not speak
to him myself his temper is so violent, many
a time have I seen him in a towering passion
over trifles, you who are so brave and good he
might listen to, but not to me.” When he has
had time to think, and when he has read the
letter then I will try what can be done, mean-
time we must see Dr. Bland and inform him
of your father’s condition." Miss Conway did
not tell her cousin what she suspected, that
there was some special enmity between the two
families; the Hilliards and the Waltons, but she
was convinced of it now even more fully than

[Column 3]
when the Dr. had first aroused her suspicious
but she did not yet understand the situation,
and she hesitated to give her views even when
her cousin urged her to tell her what she
should do.
	The Dr. came and Miss Conway had an in-
terview with him before he went to her uncle’s
room; she told him all that had transpired—
“it is better so, it must have come sooner or
later, and as it has happened, he knows how
matters stand without being told, and his
pride will not suffer as much, I am heartily
glad, he will not use any harshness depend
upon it, make your mind easy on that score;
after I have seen him, I will speak to you
again,” and the Dr. lit his pipe and left
room.
	Left to herself Jane soliloquized something
after this fashion, “my uncle is reaping the
fruits of his own neglect, he has been more at-
tentive to his hounds and his horses, than to his
own daughter, and now he has cause to repent
his indifference and it may be for the best
after all, though we must all suffer for his folly,
and poor Anna most of all."
	The Dr. remained up stairs for hours, and
refreshments with plenty of wine were served
for them, in the Baronet’s apartments and
when Dr. Bland came into the drawing room
to speak to Miss Conway he seemed in high
spirits, and his good humor put the young wo-
man more at her ease, “have no fears,” he said
“the old Baronet’s pride has had a severe blow
he has been used to having everything his own
way so long, nobody to cross him, and to find
his own little girl has ignored his parental
authority altogether, why he seems to think
the whole household has been in a conspiracy
against him even you, Miss Conway—I stayed
with him until he got cooled off, and convinced
him how anxious you had been that he should
understand the peculiar nature of Miss Anna’s
attachment. Mind you it was not so much the
letter as the man; he is the son of his sworn
enemy, once his successful rival, and how can
a man like Sir Edward ever forget such an
injury, its in the blood, pride and resentment;
though he swore savagely at first and vowed
vengeance on the young scapegrace as he
called him.
	My cousin Anna seems wholly devoid of
this sort of pride, and yet she is an aristocrat
every inch of her,  it is plainly visible in
every movement,” “Your cousin is a woman
and has all the natural instincts and the
refinement of a true lady not so much from
education and training, as she inherits by birth
the gentle blood that tells through genera-
tions.” Dr. Bland and Miss Conway talked
seriously of this affair between the two young
people and the decision they arrived at was
that as soon as possible Sir Edward must
be induced to take his daughter to the conti-
nent, “and you” said the Dr. to the young wo-
man, “ought to accompany her, though my own
feelings 
would prompt me to keep, you here.


