W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., held its
regular monthly meeting in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Tuesday the 20th, of Oct.
1891. Vice President Louisa K. Spencsr in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Phebe C.
Young. Roll called. The Secretary read the
minutes of the last meeting, which were ap-
proved. Programme of exercises was carried
out as follows, reading from "Roberts Rules
of Order," by Dr. M. C. Shipp; address, sub-
ject, "Women Jurors," Lillie T. Freeze; com-
ments on the Constitution, Phebe C. Young;
song, Maud Pratt; speech on the "Influence of
Women when United," Elizabeth Mc'Farlane.
Lillie T. Freeze in speaking on women as
Jurors, thought them eminently qualified, by
nature and education for the position, as they
have constantly to weigh evidence, and pro-
nounce judgment, in settling difficulties among
their own children; and a conscientious mother
will strive to do justice to all and as every at-
tribute which we possess is increased by culti-
vation, she thought that mothers especially
would stand at least an equal chance, with
men who are selected, not because of any quali-
fication they possessed, other than that of sex.
	Phebe C. Young in her comments on the
Constitution, wished that the term citizen could
be defined for her, as in Article XV. Section
I. of the amendments to the Constitution it
was stated, "The right of citizens of the United
States to vote shall not be denied or abridged
by the United States, or any State, on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servi-
tude," she found that she had no right to vote
but when the tax collector came around, she

[Column 3]

could feel, for a short time, at least, that she
was a citizen.
	Caroline E. Dye made a short speech.
Emily S. Richards considered that the ladies
had been insulted, in a speech made by a
prominent politician at the late political
convention held in this city, who becoming
impatient at the delay in dispatching, the busi-
ness of the meeting, exclaimed, "let us get to
work, and not act like women and babies."
	Motioned and carried that Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, be appointed critic on rules of order. Mrs.
Richards suggested that some rules be made,
for dealing with officers who did not act, after
being appointed. The meeting was adjourned
until called together by the President in con-
vention, for the election of officers for the en-
suing year.
	Nellie Colebrook Taylor, led and all the
ladies joined in singing, "New America," after
which benediction was offered by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane, which concluded a very interest-
ing session.
