				ST. JOSEPH. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of St. Joseph Stake was held at Central
Aug. 30, 1891, Pres. Wilmirth East presiding.
Conference opened by singing “Our God we
raise to thee.” Prayer by Bishop D. Mathews,
Continued by singing “The time is nigh.”
Present on the stand with Stake and local 
authorities of the Relief Society, were Pres.
C. Layton and Counselors, Patriarch Merrill,
and a goodly number of Bishops and their 
Counselors.
	Minutes of the last quarterly conference
were read and approved.
	Pres. East gave some very good instructions
to the sisters which were teeming with love
and kindness, asked them to be careful and
have their minutes and reports correct.
	Verbal reports were then called for and
were responded to by the following Presidents,
Layton Ward, Annie Packer; Thatcher, Eliza-
beth Moody; Central, Jennie Cluff; Pima,
Lydia Williams; Mathew, Clara Mathews;
Graham, Mary Peterson; Bryce, Caroline
Bryce.
	Coun. Cyrena Merrill spoke of the blessings 
we enjoyed. thought of all people we were the
most blessed; felt to appreciate the society of
our brethren in our meeting; thought we
should try and make duty a pleasure.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransom said she was well
pleased with the reports, felt to encourage all
to attend the meetings of the different organ-
izations and sustain and help the officers, was
very thankful our President, Sister East was
well enough to be with us again. Conference
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing. Benediction
by A. Cluff.
	Afternoon session: opened with singing,
“Will you go,”&c. Prayer by Patriarch
Merrill. Continued with singing. Stake
officers were unanimously sustained by the con-
ference.
	Pres. C. Layton said he was pleased to be
present, would like to have seen more out.
Urged the people to be true and faithful and
remember we are working for the Kingdom of
God. Spoke of our looking after our spiritual
welfare Wished the branches of the Society to 
do their business on a strict business plan.
Asked the Lord to bless them.
	Brother George Cluff, of Heber City, was
invited to occupy some of the time; he spoke
very well upon the redemption of man through
Christ. Urged the young people to reflect
more;-and spoke of the bad influences they had


[Column 1]

to withstand when they set out to serve God.
Beautifully portrayed the need of mental
training, and showed the good advantage of a
well cultivated mind; especially when a family
are depending mostly upon us for their train-
ing. Hoped the young men and women would
be noble fathers and mothers, which was always
pleasing to God.
	Pres. East encouraged the Relief Society
branches to hold FAIRS in their wards and
asked the Y. L., and P. A. to join them.
	Patriarch Merrill said the women should be
prayerful that they might be able to teach
their children aright who were born heirs to
the Priesthood that they might appreciate the
magnitude of this blessing.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Sweet is the work," &c. Benediction
by Wm. Johnson.
		RHODA E. Foster, Cor. Sec.

