THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.

	The falling of the leaves has a tendency to
impress us with serious thoughts, to remind us
that all things decay, that life itself is full of
changes and we are ourselves only hastening
on to that season when "we shall fade as the
leaf," but notwithstanding all the significance
of the Autumn and the falling leaves, one who
revels in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season though the
woods do grow "brown and sere."
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries with
it too that speaks in language unmistakeable
to the susceptible soul of those things that
beautify as well as typify human life. Aside
from animal life there is nothing  more human
than the trees they speak in all languages,
they sing, they whisper, they dance, and play,
and flirt, and coquette, and array themselves
gaily, gorgeously at times as though conscious
of power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play as it
does, could it make such music if there were
no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt about?
And even when they have fallen, and lie like a
heavy carpet upon the ground, the savage
wind routs them about again hither and
thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys
that are past, and passing away from us. It
is good to be reminded of the sweetness we
only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness
mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into
our hearts and lives, and the more telling will
be the lesson it will teach. We all need re-
minding of the "sunny hours" that pass all too
quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast
but were always basking in light and sunshine
we should not even know it was the perfec-
tion of beauty what would we know of day-
break if there was no night, would we rejoice
as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor of
the gorgeous sun sets, were it not that day
is departing and night coming on. And if it
were always summer, we should not drink in
as we do the resplendent glories of the
Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are quite
beyond the art of the painter; the hills are
literally crowned with purple glory, shaded
with a mantle of beauty like "Joseph's coat of
many colors." We gaze and admire, and turn
and look again in wonder and amazement,
and we try to carry in our hearts and interpret
in our lives the language conveyed to our

[Column 2]

souls, by the beauties of the hills, the fields,
the trees, the woods, the trailing vines—and
we cannot grasp it all, but little by little we
are learning to interpret in our weak way, the
wondrous things that pass human wisdom and
understanding.
	Possibly there is no other season of the
year so rich in the lessons it teaches as the
fall—the death of the flowers, the falling of
the leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched by the
frosts of time, and pass away, that we too must
finally die, and yet these things teach us we
shall live again, for every flower and tree and
bulb and vine contains the germ of life with-
in that shall spring forth again in all its pris-
tive beauty according to its time and season.
And yet we know so little, and we pay little
heed to that which admonishes us of our weak-
ness, nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of the
year, no day, nor night, nor anything that
God has planned but contains lessons of beauty
of wisdom and of truth that would make us
nobler, better, more loving and tender if we
would study as we should the application it
bears to the human side of our lives upon the
earth. This is a beautiful world, and filling
our lives up with beautiful deeds, and shedding
around us the fragrance of loving words and
happy smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much of
sweetness mingled in the cup of life given
them to drink. Speak of the beautiful and
true, keep these before you, make these your
guides and talisman and the touch of enchant-
ment will be yours to gild the lives of your
friends and associates.
