BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The following is an account of the routine
of a night at Gouverneur Hospital:
	"The night nurse at Gouvernour does not
often arise with bright face and laughing eye,
feeling as fresh and happy as a lark, at half-
past four in the afternoon of a hot July day,
but she scrambles out of bed and dons the
"stripes" (the uniform of the school is blue
and white striped seersucker) as quickly as
possible, that she may not be late for the
dinner at five o'clock. At six we get to the
wards to relieve the day nurses from duty,
and are often greeted with, "Well. I think
you will have rather a hard night."
	As I look around the ward I find the man
in the first bed is a sunstroke case, with a
temperature of 105°, and the orders are to
keep ice-bags on head and abdomen, give ice-
baths, and take temperature every fifteen
minutes until the temperature falls below 102°,
The child in the corner has pneumonia and
has on a poultice of linseed-meal, which must
be changed as often as it becomes cold, and
the child watched very closely. The delirious
patient in the other corner is to have an ice-
cap on his head, which must be kept well
filled with cracked ice. He has a fracture of
the base of the scull, and he raves and shouts
most, of the night.
	We have two patients more than we have
beds, consequently we must prepare four
patients to be transferred to Bellevue, in
order to have beds for the patients who will
come in during the nsght.
	At nine o'clock the doctors make their
rounds, and oftentimes there are dressings that
the doctor has had no time to do during the
day, and the nurse must always be ready to
wait upon the doctor the moment he enters
the ward.
	At eleven o,clock there is an ambulance
call and a man is brought in with three stab
wounds. He is covered with blood, hands,
face and clothing, has a long wound on the
face, a deep one in the shoulder, and a small
one in the abdomen. The wounds are sewed
and dressings put on. These dressings are
scarcely finished, when there comes another
call, and the ambulance brings in this time a
fine looking young man with a deep wound in
the forearm. From his nervous tremor and
restlessness I conclude he has been drinking
heavily, and this is confirmed when the house
surgeon gives the order for a "half-ounce of
the D. T. mixture immediately." His wound 
is dressed, and he is launched into bed and tied
down. Presently he begins to see snakes and
all sorts of creeping things upon his bed, and
he wants to get up and eat the man in the
bed next him. He finally becomes so violent
that he is put into handcuffs and taken to the
"Alchoholic cells" at Bellevue.
	Then things quiet down for perhaps an hour,
which time must be devoted to the man with
sunstroke and the child with pneumonia.
These, however, have not been wholly neglected
for there was time to make a poultice for the
child, and the helper has attended to the
bathing of the man, whose temperature has
fallen only one and one-half degree.
	Now it is time to begin the morning's work
of the wards, for they  must be all in order
for the day nurse when she comes on duty at

[Column 2]

eight o'clock. The temperature, pulse, and
respiration of each patient in the ward must
be taken and noted upon the chart, also any
new treatment ordered during the night, and
anything noteworthy in the condition of the
patient. Each bed is to be made, bed-linen
and patients clothing to be changed, if soiled,
while the floors are swept and washed by the
helpers.
	The medicines are given out at various
times through the night as each becomes due.
Then there is the patient's breakfast to look
after, and to see that all are served who may
eat the food, and that those who are on
special diet may get nothing but that allowed
them, whatever it may be."
	It would certainly seem that these women
earn ten or even fifteen dollars a month besides
their board and lodging. Here is an account
of a serious operation from a nurse's point
of view.
	"The nurse is responsible for making
antiseptic everything connected with an
operation except the surgical instruments.
She prepares the room, has the floor and
paint scrubbed, and every table and ledge
(there is no superfluous furniture) washed
with antiseptic solution. The dressings are
most scrupulously prepared, being boiled and
soaked and wrapped in antiseptic towels, or
kept until needed in large glass jars. The  nurse
is further responsible for having everything in
the room which the surgeon may possibly
want, such as hot-water, ice, hot-water bottles,
stimulants,ect., and must be prepared for every
emergency which, during the operation may
possibly arise. The patient is prepared by the
nurse, who gives a full bath, braids the hair, puts
on clean and suitable clothing, and arranges
her on the table, where she is always covered
with a sheet or a single blanket if necessary.
Another nurse helps the doctor give the
anæsthetic, and in fact, there are usually
three nurses at an operation of any importance,
the head nurse being in charge and the other
two her aids. She herself keeps her best eye
on the operator and stands in a certain place
where she can readily hand him hot towels,
sponges, bowls of solution, anything he may
need. The second nurse watches the supply
of hot towels, solutions, sponges, hot and cold
water, etc., while the third helps the junior
doctor who is etherizing the patient, and
fetches and carries, i.e, empties out water,
and puts it outside the door, where some
patient is stationed to carry it away and fill
up empty pitchers. In running an operation a
nurse always aims at having it go off without
a hitch, and sometimes it does, and sometimes
 not. Occasionally an operator is unreasonable
and asks for the moon, and occasionally he
makes a mistake and loses his head, and then
the nurses have a poor time of it, being
blamed if they have no boiling hot beef tea or
brandy when there is no means of heating it
in the room, the operation having already
lasted over an hour. A doctor if he is a
gentleman, usually thanks the nurse after a
long operation, and then she feels like doing
anything for him."
	Their hard day over the nurses go to the
Home, which is the stone building at the south
end of Blackwell's Island. These they have a
comfortable sitting-room with books and maga-
zines and a piano, and in summer they can play
lawn tennis outside or rest and watch the crowd
of boats that is always going up and down the
great river. But all the evenings are not
given to amusements, except during July and
August. The school is divided into junior, senior,
and graduating classes, and each has a "quiz" or
lesson once a week, and sometimes oftener,
which is usually taught by the Assistant
Superintendent. A skeleton, some large
colored diagrams, and a manikin who is re-
presented as if he were skinned, which gives

[Column 3]

him an unpleasant likeness to Marsyas or St.
Bartholomew; and who takes to pieces in a
startling manner, are much used at these
lessons, while some of the physicians and
surgeons of the visiting staff give lectures to
the classes from time to time. When at last
the two  years course is over, a board of
physicians hold the final examination which a
nurse must pass before receiving her diploma.
	At private nursing a woman receives from
$15 to $25 a week, which would pay her well
if she were always busy; but she is subject to
be overworked for some months and idle for
several more, and an excellent nurse said
recently that she should be satisfied to be sure
of making $600 a year.
	There are signs that the market is begin-
ning to be overstocked. The four large schools
which I have already spoken of have already
911 graduates, and every hospital of whatever
size must now have its training-school, so that
each year brings them a new crop of certifi-
cated nurses, more or less trained, according
to their capacity and opportunities. Some of
the schools announce that they have more
applicants than they can take, from which
outsiders have naturally been led to conclude
that pupils would be willing to come without
pay, but the superintendents, who are already
feeling the effects of competition, know well
that any such move would be fatal to a really
high standard. This competition between the
schools has not been without good results, in
that it has stimulated the different boards in
charge of them to greater efforts in the di-
rection of comfort in the Homes, and a distinct
and attractive course of instruction. And it
is to be hoped that something may be done to-
ward shortening the long hours of work in
the wards.
	In regard to graduates, the time has come
when the profession, if it is to be such, must
be protected. This can best be done by the
formation of a central committee or board,
which shall recognize only graduates of
standard schools, shall take the testimony of
their superintendents as to the fitness and
worthiness of such graduates, and after
submitting them to an examination, shall give
them a degree or diploma not obtainable in
any other way.
	The law sets the standard for physicians by
recognizing only the degreesof certain colleges,
which might be difficult in the case of train-
ing schools, but something must be done to
indicate and to protect the women who have
earned the best right to live by their trade.
It is not enough to let the stronger crowd out
the weaker, as in the case of stenographers or
telegraph operators, because doctors have
learnt to expect intelligent help from a trained
nurse,and if she fail them in a critical case, it
may mean the defference between life and
death.


