[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: AUNT BETSY’S LEGACY. | Author: Unknown]

		AUNT BETSY’S LEGACY.
	Main street in the town of Lind consisted
of one store, where general merchandise was
sold, a drug store and post office combined,
one one side of the street, while on the other
was a plain square board building known as
“The Lind Hotel,” a stable with yard where
teams could be boarded for a day or so, and
hay and grain were sold, an amusement hall,
and a little shop containing patterns and ma-
terial for art needle work, where lessons
were given in all kinds of embroidery,
crochet and knitting. 
	It is needless to say in such a town there
were no paved streets nor electric lights, nor
other modern improvements, on the con-
trary, the wild grass fringed the edges of
the sidewalks, and narrow creeks of running
water took the place of curbing between the
streets and the walks. The settlers of Lind
had reserved one large square for city pur-

[Column 2]
poses where a rather pretentious city hall
was erected from native stone, in the cupola
of which hung a massive bell, this with a
less pretentious building on the same square
which served for a school room during the
week, and on Sundays a house of worship,
constituted the only public buildings in the
town. It is with the little art shop on the
corner, however, that this story has to deal.
In new settlements out on the western
prairies one seldom expects to find culture
and refinement. The very hardships of pio-
neer life and the circumstances which lead
a family out into such places would rather
lead one to expect a rough and fortune-
seeking community. The town of Lind
was not settled either by fortune seekers or
rangers, but its settlers were a part of that
wandering people who, driven from their
beautiful homes in the east, had sought and
found a refuge in the heart of the western
desert. The Lind people had not left with
the first exiles, nor had they followed them
to their destination, but had stopped midway
and established a trading post, expecting
later to continue the journey. This, how-
ever, never happened and the little town
became a permanent home for the few
weary travellers, increasing but slowly as the
years rolled on, and never assuming a thriv-
ing community. In such a place the men
have generally the most amusement, at least
time hangs less heavily on their hands, for
with the work of subduing the soil, trading
horses and raising cattle, such as is always
the business of these prairie towns, their
minds are well occupied, but the women
fare less kindly. The homes are generally
widely separated and the tasks are less in-
teresting. It happened, therefore, that the
one bright spot in the town of Lind for the
women folks was the little corner store kept
by the dearest of old ladies known to every-
body as “Aunt Betsy.”
	Perhaps some day you may happen to see
on the walls of some modern library or
drawing room an old-fashioned sampler or
ottoman cover worked in red and yellow
wool roses, or a buckskin gauntlet, em-
broidered in silk floss; if you do, it will re-
call Aunt Betsy and her little store where
she taught the women to fashion all kinds
of wonderful designs with the needle and
crochet hook. With her brother’s family
Aunt Betsy had come to America in the
early 60s from a pleasant English home,
and with them had remained by the way-
side. It was not her nature, however, to
be a dependent on her brother nor a nurse
for his children, and having brought with
her a splendid box of material for needle
work and some little means of her own she
soon established herself in business making
her home in the back end of the room, di-
vided only from the store by a large curtain
of blue denim.
	Nothing ever happens in a country town
but what everybody knows every detail and
the corner grocery, post office or village
store, is the great dispensary of news, but
for once in the town of Lind the people were
dumb and not a soul could explain the mys-
tery when one Christmas morning Aunt
Betsy found on her doorstep a wee baby
girl. In a city, such a circumstance might
not create any consternation, at least not
for long, but in an open prairie village miles
from everywhere, in a town where every-
body knew everybody, and there never had
before been a mystery, this happened to be
more than a nine-day wonder, in fact it

[Column 3]
never ceased to be a wonder until many
years later when—but wait, this comes not
now. When Aunt Betsy picked the bundle
off her doorstep in the early morning it had
a light covering of feathery snow, for the
snow had been falling all night and this
slight dusting showed that it had not lain
there very long; sufficiently long, however,
for any tracks of vehicle or footprints to be
covered, and it seemed as though it had
dropped down from the skies with the 
shower of flakes that covered it. Such a-
theory, indeed, Aunt Betsy was willing to
accept, for it was better for her to look upon
the little thing as a gift from heaven and
immediately try to give it a mother’s care,
than to strive to fathom a mystery desired
to be kept, and perhaps bring upon its head
disgrace and sorrow. After many surmises
and unnecessary questionings into each
others’ affairs the village folk resigned
themselves to Aunt Betsy’s philosophy, “If
it didn’t come down from heaven with the
snow, probably the Lord knew where it did
come from, and when he is ready would let
them know too; I only knew it was here
and I intend to take care of it and ask
no further questions.” She did not say,
however, that on its little body was a tiny
shirt, made of soft linen on which some
three weeks previously, she believed she had
stamped a small embroidery scallop, and
which now she had laid carefully away for
further developments.
	When the tiny thing was old enough to
have a name all the women in the town
wanted to assist in the selection, and many
an interesting conversation was held over
the counter about the baby’s name. “She is
so pretty,” said one mother. “I should
think you would call her June or Rose or
Pearl or some fine name like that.” “She is
such a little thing,” said another; “why
don’t you call her Fanny or Minnie or
Mattie.” “She almost belongs to all of us,”
said still another; “why not name her Lindy
for the town.” This seemed to suit most
of the women folk, but Aunt Betsy was a
long time deciding. In the meantime, how-
ever, she was making most wonderful clothes
for the approaching day of the christening;
embroidered flannels and dress, while a cloak
of white cashmere done in blue forget-me-
nots was the principal gift of this loving
foster mother, and not until the second
Christmas, when the little thing was begin-
ning to talk, did she receive a name.
	“I’d like to please you all,” Aunt Betsy
said, “but you have so many different opin-
ons. Now I never but once in my life had
a chance to hear or see any great personage
and that was when my father took us all up
to London to hear Jenny Lind sing, think-
ing perhaps as her name was the same as
ours we might be some relation, and it’s a-
good thing to be loyal to your own family,
so I think I’ll just name this little might of
a thing for that great singer. Lind being
the name of this town named for my brother,
who was the first town officer, I guess it
will suit you all pretty well anyhow.”
	What Aunt Betsy didn’t tell was that the
little embroidered shirt so carefully laid
away had been stamped for some singer
girl, who a few weeks before had responded
time and time again to their applause in the
town amusement hall. So Jenny Lind, un-
der Aunt Betsy’s tutelage and care became
quite a girl in the little community. She
was trained in all things, which her good
foster mother knew, and though her accom-


[Column 1]
plishments were few, she was the leader
among the young people in every social
affair and a great favorite with all.
	Aunt Betsy gave the girl great freedom
at all times, except when some straggling
troupe of players stopped on their way and
entertained the villagers for a night or two.
At such times she was more than watchful
and never let her out of her sight, and at
just such times Jenny herself was more anx-
ious for her freedom. The dull little town
always seemed so much duller after these
visits. The novelty of entertaining actors
even of mediocre ability was quite exhilarat-
ing, and Jenny’s feet always seemed to want
to dance much faster when she heard the
music, so fast indeed that poor Aunt Betsy
was afraid she would dance into their crowd
and disappear as suddenly as she had come.
	Perhaps she would have joined some of
the troupes had she followed her own in-
clination, but there was a magnet greater
even than her love for her foster mother
which held Jenny from leaving home. The
youth of the village had looked with admir-
ing eyes for a long time on this young girl.
More beautiful and something different to
the other girls, she had unwittingly won the
hearts of the young men, but by none of
these had her heart been touched. It was
not love for anything human that held Jenny
at home, but a fascination for a piece of
needle work of her foster mother’s over
which she marveled and questioned and pon-
dered many hours. As time went on Jenny
assumed most of the duties of the little home
and business, leaving Aunt Betsy more time
for her teaching and embroidery. This par-
ticular piece of work, which fascinated
Jenny, was never worked upon when others
were around, only at night and early morn-
ings, and the only satisfaction Jenny ever
received for her questions was “some day it
will explain to you a mystery.” The thought
that perhaps it had something to do with
her birth was enough to keep the girl near
her kind benefactress who, though she had
been all that a mother could be, had never
been called other than Aunt Betsy, “leaving
the sacred name of mother to be given only,
if the good Lord ever allowed, to her who
had the right”—so said the kind old soul
when upbraided by the girl for not allowing
her to call her mother. “You were my most
precious Christmas gift, Jenny, and some
day, I hope, we will have the chance to give
on that holy day, an offering in return for
the joy you have brought to me.”
	It was not easy to obtain always the
proper colored silks for the fine workman-
ship of Aunt Betsy’s wonderful picture, and
when sent for, it took a long time to get the
articles by mail, and so like Penelope’s
famous needle work it seemed as though it
never would be done, but as Jenny grew to
young womanhood the tapestry took on a
more finished form. On the Christmas when
Jenny was eighteen it was her gift from
Aunt Betsy.
	A work the dear old lady had wrought
throughout the eighteen years; a work the
tired brain had pondered over and the clever
hands had at last been able to accomplish.
	The picture was a young girl like Jenny in
all respects save complexion, for Jenny’s
hair was dark, while the picture girl had
hair of burnished gold. Jenny’s eyes were
that unknown color between the brown and
violet which sometimes seem black and
sometimes blue—hazel the poets call them

[Column 2]
and the painter calls them grey. This had
been the difficult part in making the picture,
for with, Jenny’s ever-changing eyes in front
of her and the memory of those soft, brown
eyes when she sold the little pattern, Aunt
Betsy was much puzzled, however, with the
touch of a soft brush to help with her needle,
she as though by inspiration, caught the soft,
dreamy expression and the work was fin-
shed. That her memory served her well is
not remarkable, for in all the years she had
been striving to recall the details of dress
and figure of the girl she had spoken to, but
once, and her work was not alone a work of
art but a memory and an inspiration.
	To what purpose had she thus employed
all the years, and now what use could this
specimen of handicraft be? She knew not
herself, but she gave it to her little girl with
admonition to display it where possible but
to never part with it, for in its lines were
written all she knew of Jenny’s mother.
	The town of Lind never grew beyond the
village dimensions, though the railroad came
within a few miles and a branch line was
run down to the town where a cattle guard
was built, and not far away a great city grew
out of the plains, to which the village folk
took their produce and where they some-
times went for entertainment.
	Before another Christmas Aunt Betsy had
fallen into her last sleep, leaving besides her
picture legacy, all her earthly possessions to
her adopted daughter. Jenny very soon dis-
posed of her property, having no natural
taste for those things which had been a part
of her existence and with only a few cher-
shed articles sought the more exciting life
in the near-by city. She had some little
means and considerable common sense, so
was soon established in a good home and
began her pursuit of occupation. Perhaps
it was fate, perhaps fancy, which led her
direct to the manager of an opera house to
apply for a position on the stage before she
had ever had any schooling in dramatic art,
dancing or musicc other than the church
sociables of her native town afforded. She
was not without the knowledge, however,
that she had the gift, for never in all her
life had she been able to keep still when she
heard the sound of music. It was not her
voice, though she was something of a singer,
that responded to the strains, it was her feet,
and many a time in her rambles for wild
flowers out on the prairie had she whiled
away hours, dancing alone to the music of
her own voice. So when the manager asked
her how long she had taken lessons in danc-
ing she answered, “All her life.” He gave
her a trial and she swept before him with
such weird grace and agile step as to at once
win his favor and obtain employment. He
related to his wife at dinner the story of the
new girl who had applied for a position and
how beautifully, yet wildly she danced, and
that she had no conception of costumes or
stage requirements, yet he had decided to
engage her, and told his wife, who was
herself a retired actress, to be at the re-
hearsal on the following day and take the
new girl in hand.
	Jenny was somewhat amazed when she
appeared for rehearsal, with the appearance
and chatter of the bevy of chorus girls and
other people who assembled to do over their
parts before the evening performance. Her
heart just about failed her and she had de-
termined to quietly withdraw when the man-
ager’s wife accosted her. Mrs. Watts knew

[Column 3]
instantly the girl, she was so different in
every way, and she saw first the hesitancy,
then the resolve in her face to quit, so she
speedily intercepted Jenny. Mrs. Watts was
not an unkind woman but had given untold
aid and help to many struggling girls. She
had seen hundreds come to the stage led—
most of them—with an idea that it was a
quick way to fame and fortune, only to find
it the quickest way to an opening to the
way to shame and sorrow, and her heart
had often led her to advise girls to keep
away from the footlights and seek other em-
ployment. But this was her husband’s busi-
ness and she, as far as her conscience would
permit, assisted him in his work. It is a
hard thing to be manager of theatrical con-
cerns and be above blame.
	The profession itself makes girls liable to
temptation, the late hours, the stage ap-
parel, the necessary contact with all kinds
of people, the freedom of speech, and the
generally unsatisfactory wages are factors
which every girl should consider before
adopting a stage career, and if she be pure
minded should ask herself “Am I strong
enough to place art first and with all my
might struggle against every temptation and
live alone for that art?” Few consider and
those generally who do, find themselves not
so strong as they believed.
	To Jenny the first rehearsal was a perfect
nightmare. She was not asked to join the
girls just at first but to watch them; prob-
ably had she begun the dance with them, the
music would so have lured her on that she
would have overcome her timidity. Some-
thing in the face of Mrs. Watts held her
almost spellbound. When that lady finally
asked her if she was ready to join the girls
in their second try of the dance she said,
“No, I must go, but you, I must see again,
think I have seen you before.” Her slow,
strange speech mystified the lady and she
was preparing to let her go when she sud-
denly caught a look in Jenny’s face which
brought back some forgotten hour. And
the two women stood before each other as
though trying to recall some past acquaint-
ance. Presently Jenny, who though the
younger was after all the stronger, said come
with me I have something for you to see,
and the two left the theatre together[-]
	After a half hour ride on the car they
were in Jenny’s room and she had unpacked
Aunt Betsy’s legacy and together they were
trying to unravel its mystery. At first Mrs.
Watts thought the girl must be mad to think
she had any connection with just a piece of
embroidered tapestry, but suddenly her eye
caught the scalloped pattern worked on the
girl’s bodice. Then she remarked, “I used
to do some little needle work; I believe I
have done that pattern on the waist.”
	With this Jenny flew to her trunk and
brought forth the little linen shirt Aunt
Betsy had treasured for so many years, and
then—they both knew.
