[Vol23 | February 1936 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Editorial | Title: Abraham]
Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 2 EDITORIAL Abraham Lincoln OT only in the United States are thousands paying tribute to Abraham Lincoln on his natal day, February 12th, but in many other lands his virtues are told and men are made better through the example of his wonderful life. His sayings reach the hearts of men and move them to like action. We need today his uncompromising honesty. He said, "You may burn my body to ashes and scatter them to the winds of heaven. You may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness and despair to be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by so doing I may accomplish that which I believe to be right. I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right; but it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side. "Here are 23 ministers of different denominations and all of them are against me but three, and here are a great many prominent members of churches; a very large majority are against me. I have carefully read the Bible and I do not so understand this book," and he drew forth a pocket New Testament. "These men well know that I am for freedom in the territories, freedom everywhere as the Constitution and the laws will permit, and that my opponents are for slavery. They know this and yet, with this book in their hands, in the light of which human bondage cannot live a moment they are going to vote against me; I do not understand it at all. I know there is a God, and that He hates injustice and slavery. I see the. Storm coming, and I know that His hand is in it. If He has a place and work for me, and I think He has, I believe I am ready. J am nothing, but truth is everything; I know I am right, because I know that liberty is right, for Christ teaches it, and Christ is God. I have told them that a house divided against itself 130 cannot stand, and Christ and reason say the same, and they will find it so. Douglas doesn't care whether slavery is voted up or down, but God cares, and humanity cares, and I care, and with God's help I shall not fail. I may not see the end; but it will come and I shall be vindicated, and these men will find they have not read their Bible right." We need his faith to drive us to our knees. He said, "I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My own wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient for that day."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Through his fearless honesty and trust in God's direction, he grew according to his need; his mind mastered the problems that confronted him, and as the problems grew so did his comprehension of them. It is not often that a man is so well fitted to successfully cope with the crises of an epoch-making time. During the four years of the Civil War, while his resources and magnanimity were sorely tried, he was never found wanting. Through his courage, justice, even temper, fertile counsel and his deep humanity 'he stood an heroic figure, the center of an heroic age." Passing of Julina L. Smith T the ripe age of 86
