[Vol23 | February 1936 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Literature | Title: Earth and Stars]
Earth and Stars 
By Rosannah C. Irvine
A PLAY IN ONE ACT. THREE SCENES

Cast of Characters
NORMA LEWIS, afterwards NORMA DUFFIN. She is about twenty-three years old, with a buoyancy and sweetness which are almost submerged at the present time by baffled hopes.
JIMMY DUFFIN, Norma's sweetheart, afterward her husband. He is about twenty-four years old, but in the first two scenes appears much older. He looks and feels like a derelict, and sometimes finds himself acting like one.
MISS MARY MORTON, a welfare worker with an understanding heart.
MRS. NAN BOWERS, a woman who loves to give.

SCENE 1
The curtain rises on a quiet corner of a city park. Norma is discovered sitting on a bench. Her clothes are well made and in good style, but are shabby. Her face is rather beautiful in spite of the effects of hunger and suffering which show plainly through her makeup. She is neat and clean. She glances anxiously around as if watching for someone. She looks sad and disheartened. In a moment or two after the curtain rises, Jimmy enters.
Jimmy, is shabby, unshaved, and undernourished. He is marked with defeat and despair. He has a sullen, hang-dog expression, combined with a furtive, hunted look in his eyes.
NORMA—Hello, Jimmy. I'd just about given you up. What's the matter? You look excited.
JIMMY—(Throws himself on the bench at her side. Irritably.) I'm not excited. I'm tired. I've been working.
NORMA—(Amazed) Oh Jimmy! Have you really got work? Is it steady? What kind of work is it?
JIMMY—(Trying to master his feverishness) It was only a little job, but the man felt sorry for me I guess and gave me five bucks. I think I can get some more when I go after it again. (He speaks as if he had learned a piece by heart.)
NORMA—(Delighted) I think that's wonderful, Jimmy. What kind of work is it? Engineering?
JIMMY—(Shortly) No! It's a new opening. I can't talk about it yet.
NORMA—(anxiously) It isn't anything shady, is it?
JIMMY—No! (Then fiercely) A man has a right to live! From now on, I'm going to— (His voice breaks. He lays his head on his arm, hiding his face.)
NORMA—(Sympathetically) What is it, Jimmy? Tell me.
JIMMY—(Struggling to gain his composure) I might as well tell you. You'd find it out anyway. I haven't had any work. I found the money.

EARTH AND STARS 85
NORMA—(Apprehensively) Where did you find it, Jimmy? Did you try to find the owner?
JIMMY—(Crossly) Well, what do you think? No one hunts for money they drop on the street, even if they ever miss it.
NORMA—(Still unconvinced) I don't see how anyone could lose it on the street. If anyone had it out counting it, he would surely miss it. Wouldn't he? (Then easing her conscience) If you inquired, a dozen people might claim it. Let's accept it as a gift from the skies. When did you eat last, Jimmy?
JIMMY—I don't know. Yesterday noon, I believe.
NORMA—Well, I beat you on that then. I had a long glass of milk this morning. Where did you sleep last night, Jimmy?
JIMMY—On a bench in the park. (Coughs). Caught a little cold, too.
NORMA—You poor kid! I thought that you slept with a night watchman or something.
JIMMY—I have most of the time lately. But he's gone on his vacation now. I went there three or four nights ago, and the fellow who's taken his place told me to go and jump in the lake. So I slept in the hoos gow for two nights.
NORMA—(Shocked) Oh Jimmy!
JIMMY—It's a lot better than sleeping on a bench in the park, or on a cement floor. I had a good bed there, the first I've slept in for weeks.
NORMA—Oh Jimmy, I didn't know things were that bad with you.
JIMMY—Say, lady, you ain't heard nothin' yet. (Pause) I'm sick and tired. I'm at the end of my rope. There's plenty of money and food in the world. I'm willing to work for my share of it. (Wildly) I tell you I'm willing to work. I'll do anything. But I won't tramp the streets and starve any longer, looking for a chance to work for what I need to keep me alive. If they won't let me work I'll beat the game somehow. I can out smart some of these smart guys yet.
NORMA—Jimmy, I've never heard you talk that way before. What's the matter with you? You shouldn't talk that way even in fun.
JIMMY—(Sullenly) I'm hungry and discouraged. That's what's the matter with me. You know well enough. And if you think that's funny, you're mistaken. I'm telling you I was never more serious in my life. I've tried to get work. I've tried to be decent and square. Where's it got me? Sleeping in jail and begging for food. And where's it got you?
NORMA—Well, so far we've kept our self respect. But hunger does play the dickens with one's ideals. I've been so hungry sometimes lately I could have robbed a baby's bank if I had seen one lying around handy. (Jimmy starts to say something, then changes his mind.)
JIMMY—(After a pause) Well, that's that! Norma, will you marry me?
NORMA—(Startled) Why Jimmy, this is so sudden.
JIMMY—I know, and I haven't a thing on earth to offer you. But I do love you. Think it over for a minute. And don't think I've gone looney. A married man has a lot better chance to get work than a single man. An unmarried man is considered a tramp, and treated like one. It's a lot easier to get on relief, too, if you're married. (Suddenly losing control of himself.) I've been treated worse than a dog. I've had doors slammed in my face by sleek, smug women with fat poodles in their arms.
NORMA—They spat on Jesus, you know. Someone said that God never gave anyone an impossible task to do, if they would remember Jesus and—
JIMMY—(Interrupting her crossly) Oh, for pity's sake don't preach! That's more than I can bear. You talk a lot about God. What's He ever done for either of us? He's too far away to hear our prayers. He certainly isn't very fatherly. I'm all off on asking Him for anything any more.
NORMA—(Shocked) Jimmy! You mustn't talk like that! It's wicked.
JIMMY—(Shrilly) Be quiet, I tell you! I can't stand your eternal preaching. I suppose you think it's all right to let your children starve.
(Norma is too wise to argue or take offense. She realizes that his nerves are at the breaking point. She sits quietly until he has gained control of himself. For about ten seconds there is tense silence. The emotional feeling must be sustained even though no word is spoken.)
JIMMY—(Penitently) Norma, I'm sorry. This thing has got me, but I have no business taking it out on you. Especially when I had just proposed.
NORMA—(Laughing) And before I'd even accepted you. Any one would think you were a crotchety old man and tired of my companionship, the way you flew at me.
(They burst into hysterical laughter. Sitting hand in hand, they rock back and forth laughing until they are weak.)
JIMMY—(Gaining control of his emotions, speaks with difficulty.) Norma darling, will you marry me in spite of my crazy temper?
(Norma, still laughing weakly, nods her head. Jimmy puts his arm around her.)
JIMMY—Come darling, brace up. You mustn't have hysterics on your wedding day.
NORMA—(Wiping her eyes, looks up at him smiling.) I think that's the craziest and sweetest proposal a girl ever had. Both of us starving. Both hysterical. No work. No money.
JIMMY—(taking the five dollar bill out of his pocket and waving it before her) You forget the five bucks. Enough to buy a license and a dinner. And we'll leave the rest to fate. I'd like to give you a ring. I suppose we have to have one, don't we?
NORMA—(ruefully) Yes. And I pawned my last one last month to pay my rent. But we can buy one good enough for the time being at the Five and Ten. I saw some pretty ones there the other day for a quarter.
JIMMY—(Ashamed) And I would like to give you one of platinum and diamonds. (He gets up abruptly and walks about. Then fiercely) And I will too. You mark my word. You'll have diamonds, and (with a wide inclusive gesture) everything you want,—and money to burn, before you're a year older.
NORMA—Oh, I haven't had it so hard. Not nearly so hard as you have. And I don't want fine things. I've never wanted to be rich. I'd like to have enough to keep us respectably,—and plenty to eat. I've been

EARTH AND STARS 87
hungry sometimes and discouraged very often. But I've had a decent room to sleep in at least.
JIMMY—Darling, you're a brick. Are you sure you don't want to back out?
NORMA—Certain sure. (Then dramatically, as if struck by a terrible thought.) Can it be that you want me to marry you for the sake of getting work, mister?
JIMMY—(Crossly) What gave you that cock-eyed idea? You know perfectly well I've been crazy in love with you ever since the first day I saw you.
NORMA—It's mutual, darling. I'd rather be your wife than live in a palace.
JIMMY—That's complimentary and comforting. But I must warn you, my dear, "Thou art wedded to calamity."
NORMA—(Laughing) Now I'll tell one. Listen to this, "A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a carriage." And I know some more, too. How's this? "The good ship Matrimony is always seaworthy provided the passengers do not rock the boat."
JIMMY—(Responding almost gaily) Well, for two starving lunatics, we're doing pretty well at repartee. Seeing we're airing our culture, so to speak, I'll say with Brutus,
"Oh, ye gods, make me worthy of this noble wife."
NORMA—Shakespeare again! Well, I'm too far gone for a come back. Let's crawl to the nearest hot dog stand, or I'll be 'remains' before I'm a bride.
JIMMY—No hot dog stand for our wedding feast. I know a neat little cafe less than half a block away, where we can get a steak and ice cream.
NORMA—Oh darling, lead me to it!
(They go out as the curtain falls.)

SCENE 2

The Welfare office of Miss Mary Morton. It is furnished with the usual office equipment, a desk, two or three chairs, an office bench, magazines, papers, and a telephone. Miss Morton is seated at her desk. She is looking over some reports, and making notes. She is plainly dressed, and is wholesome and kind. There is a long enough pause after the curtain rises for the audience to get the atmosphere of the place. Then Mrs. Bowers enters. She is well dressed, cheerful, and friendly.
MISS MORTON—(Glancing up) Hello, Nan. Sit down and excuse me for a minute, till I finish this report. (She continues her writing. Mrs. Bowers walks restlessly about. Miss Morton continues writing for a moment or two, then puts her papers away and looks up at her friend smiling.)
MISS MORTON—Well, my dear, what's on your mind?
MRS. BOWERS—Mary, I'm in a jam! The Bergers have walked out on me.
MISS MORTON—The Bergers? Who are they?
MRS. BOWERS—Why, you know, Mary. They're the couple I've had on my place in Ferndell. And they've departed, leaving me high and dry. Some of the crops are not in yet,—and baby chicks and turkeys,—and everything. Oh, it's a fright!
MISS MORTON—Well, that is too bad.

MRS. BOWERS—(Tragically) Too bad? It's tragic! Mary, you've got to help me.
MISS MORTON—I? What can I do? I'm no farmer and his wife.
MRS. BOWERS—Don't be silly! Get me another couple! I've simply got to have some one out there tonight. There are the cows to milk, and chickens to feed. And tonight's my turn for the water.
MISS MORTON—Well, I don't know what I can do. I've never happened to have a farmer couple as clients yet.
MRS. BOWERS—Well, you're going to have some now. I don't care where you get them from. But get them.
MISS MORTON—What do you think I am? A magician? You can't expect me to pull farmers out of a hat like rabbits, you know.
MRS. BOWERS—That's exactly what I do expect you to do. Come on, Mary, be a sport. You know very well you can get any kind at any time. You've never failed yet. You just can't fail me now.
MISS MORTON—Oh, can't I? Well, just watch me. (She closes her desk, takes her pocket book, puts on her hat) It's closing time and I'm off for the evening. I wish I could help you, Nan. But really I can't this time.
(Norma and Jimmy enter at this moment. They appear embarrassed and awkward. Norma has a cheap ring on the third finger of her left hand. She looks almost happy. Jimmy is less dejected than he was in the first scene. He has a slight air of bravado, mingled with his former spirit of defeat.)
MISS MORTON—(Pleasantly) How do you do? What can I do for you?
JIMMY—(Taking off his ragged hat. Diffidently.) Some one told us to come to you for help. We're out of work and have no money.
MRS. BOWERS—(Gesticulating frantically behind their backs, says with her lips, Get them. They'll do. They're just what I want. Then aloud) I'm going to drive around a bit, Mary. I'll be back in fifteen minutes. I expect you to have everything fixed up for me by that time. (Exit).
MISS MORTON—(Sitting down at her desk again. To Jimmy) What is your name?
JIMMY—I'm James Duffin. This is my wife, Norma Duffin.
(During the interview Miss Morton takes notes. Quite unobtrusively. Merely as if she were jotting down an occasional idea, and not putting her clients through an inquisition.)
MISS MORTON—How long have you been married?
JIMMY—A little over an hour. Norma, show the lady our marriage certificate.
MISS MORTON—My name is Mary Morton. Most people call me Miss Mary. Suppose you sit down.
(They sit on the bench. Miss Morton takes the certificate, looks at it, and returns it to Norma who replaces it in her pocket book.)
MISS MORTON—Why did you get married when you had neither work nor money?
JIMMY—(With an attempt at a smile) We thought that as long as we had to be miserable, we might as well be happy about it. (Pause) We understood that the chances for getting work were better if we were married. And if we were married we could go on relief.
MISS MORTON—Do you want to go on relief?

EARTH AND STARS 89
JIMMY—No! I should say not! That's the last thing we do want to do, except die of hunger. We both thought we'd rather starve. But we discovered that's not so pleasant and heroic as it sounds. Not by a long shot.
MISS MORTON—What kind of work have you tried to get?
JIMMY—Everything from electrical engineering to street sweeping.
MISS MORTON—Have you had any experience in engineering?
JIMMY—(groaning somewhat belligerent and sullen under the questioning) I graduated last year in electrical engineering. I was an honor student.
MISS MORTON—And you haven't been able to get anything along that line?
JIMMY—Not a tap.
MISS MORTON—That's strange. What kind of work have you had?
JIMMY—Just odd jobs. And then one month as dishwasher in a Chinese joint.
MISS MORTON—That wasn't permanent?
JIMMY—I should say not. I couldn't eat the food.
MISS MORTON—Even though it was free?
JIMMY—It wasn't free at that. It was charged up against me whether I ate or not.
NORMA—He lost twenty-five pounds while he was there.
MISS MORTON—I can imagine more pleasant ways of reducing. Aren't you working either, Norma?
NORMA—No, I haven't had anything for three months. I was companion to a lady, but she died. Her people didn't need me after that.
MISS MORTON—What were your duties?
NORMA—I read to her mostly. Answered her letters. Brushed her hair. Took care of her clothes. And made myself generally useful.
MISS MORTON—Have you tried to get another position?
NORMA—Yes, I've tried everything. But I'm not specially trained. And (in confusion) her relatives wouldn't give me a reference.
MISS MORTON—Why was that?
NORMA—They accused me of stealing Miss Goodwin's jewels.
MISS MORTON—Miss Abigail Goodwin of Fairview?
NORMA—Yes, Miss Morton.
MISS MORTON—Did Miss Goodwin think you had taken them?
NORMA—Oh no! It was after Miss Goodwin died. Miss Goodwin never would have suspected me. She would have known who took them.
MISS MORTON—Do you suspect some one?
(During this part of the conversation, Jimmy sits staring into space.)
NORMA—Yes, I do. But it wouldn't do any good to say anything. It would only make things worse.
MISS MORTON—That is probably true. But would you mind telling me?
NORMA—You're sort of a professional, aren't you? I guess it would be like telling things to your doctor or lawyer, wouldn't it?
MISS MORTON—Exactly, my dear. We have to know all about a case in order to give the most help. But we don't break confidences.
NORMA—Well, it will be a relief to tell some one and get it off my chest. I'm sure that Miss Goodwin's niece took them.

MISS MORTON—What makes you think that? Have you any grounds for your suspicion?
NORMA—Yes, but nothing that the family would believe. She took things of Miss Goodwin's several times. And her aunt knew it. She used to get awfully angry with Sally sometimes.
MISS MORTON—You can't prove your innocence?
NORMA—No. I have no proof except my word.
MISS MORTON—Did they prosecute you?
NORMA—(Bitterly) No. They said my conscience would make me suffer enough.
MISS MORTON—(Sympathetically) Not giving you a reference and accusing you of theft are quite a punishment. You are fortunate not to have permitted it to embitter you.
NORMA—Oh, but it has. Sometimes I feel desperate. But it does no good to rail against fate. I've tried to keep cheerful. But I'd certainly like to see Sally Goodwin suffer.
MISS MORTON—That's natural, I suppose. (Turning to Jimmy) Next to engineering what would you like to do?
