[Vol25 | December 1938 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT In the home, the ability of a mother to see a child's problem as he sees it is essential for successful guidance. Children frequently make life miserable for each other because they lack this ability, because their immaturity prevents this sharing of points of view. A wife who understands the particular interests and enthusiasms of her husband, and the husband who appreciates those interests that are feminine?they are likely to be a happy couple. Their interests need not coincide so long as there is mutual understanding and toleration of each other's point of view. This personality quality is often expressed by such simple acts as a wife purchasing Christmas or birthday presents that give expression to her husband's hobbies and enthusiasms, for example, fishing tackle or hunting equipment if his enthusiasms run along this line. He in turn will not express his own wants or interests in what he presents to his wife, such as giving her a set of camping utensils when she is really enthusiastic about fine tapestry or Venetian vases.
IV. Give the Other Person a Chance to Express Himself, or Expand His Ego, if You Would Get Along With Him. Most often this means to praise the person we would get along with whenever a legitimate occasion arises. It does not mean to flatter, for flattery is a kind of pseudo-praise where your real motives are too obviously selfish. Genuine praise springs from the heart; it is a genuine appreciation for the good in others. To talk freely of our own successes tends to deflate the other person's ego, and to inflate our own. Ego striving is the motivation underlying boasting. Naturally it is unpopular, though very common, and one of the surest ways to make people dislike us. Let the other person do the talking, if you would get along with him; and when you do talk, let it be about either purely impersonal subjects or those that are related to his enthusiasms. Talk about the other person's children, about her boy away at college or on a mission, about her grandchildren, or about her part in the Relief Society program. When we tell a joke on ourselves, it permits the other person's ego to expand; but when we tell one on him, the opposite effect follows and he is likely to dislike us. The habit of telling jokes which are intended to discount someone else is often a symptom of insecure conceptions of the value of oneself, of inferiority feelings at heart. The apparent "daring" of this kind of humor frequently serves only to cover up one's inner recognition of the insecurity of his own status. The person in good command of his self-feelings can mention his own faults without losing prestige. In fact, frankness about one's faults, so long as one does not become too apologetic and boresome, helps to create respect in others and certainly promotes friendly feelings, just as boasting operates to the contrary.
V. How To Be a Good Follower. People vary widely in temperament; some are by past experience and original nature inclined to be leaders, others are likewise predisposed to be good followers. The quality of leadership or "follower-ship" is frequently a life pattern which varies according to circumstances: some people are leaders in every relationship, others are as truly followers. But most of us are likely to lead out under one circumstance and follow under another where we are not so sure of our ascendance over the other person involved, although we may still have a general tendency to either lead or follow as a general habit. That leadership is not desired by everyone, is borne out by the fact that faithful followers sometimes refuse advancement to positions of more responsibility with more prestige or better pay. They say they would rather have less prestige or pay than make the adjustment. They would rather do a routine job they know well than a more variable one where more thinking is required. The art of being a good follower or subordinate is therefore of value to most of us. Good Church followers are those who respect the authority of the leaders. As long as we are confident they have better judgment and insight than we, to follow is easy. We are good followers when we do not openly question our leaders' judgment. We show our respect by prompt and enthusiastic response to their wishes. The poorest kind of followers are those who countermand the orders of their superior officers and use their own judgment as opposed to theirs. This we call insubordination; it is one of the most common reasons for people losing their positions in the Church and in industry. If we think we have better ideas than our superior officers we need not smother them necessarily, but much tact is required to get them adopted. Argument accomplishes only one thing: bad RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE feelings. Let your superior accidentally find your ideas for himself so that he doesn't "lose any face" by having you tell him what to do. To tell someone openly how to do his business simply builds up resistance to your ideas, when actually the leader might like to adopt them if he could without losing his pride. To follow when the leader lacks insight or is weak is very difficult. But argument and over-aggressiveness on the part of the follower does not make the latter into a leader. Insight and consideration of the personalities of others are the most important qualifications of a leader, and an aspiring one must learn to manage people, including his leader, before he can become a leader.
VI. How To Get the Most Out of Your Followers. The way to influence your followers is to appreciate first of all what was said about being a good follower.
Give your subordinates credit for what they do.
Only recognition of their "place in the sun" makes them want to give their best to the work at hand.
Nagging and finding fault are as fatal in other personal relations as they are in rearing a family.
Destructive criticism naturally undermines the pride or value the follower puts on himself.
When a person becomes resentful of criticism, he is attempting to "save his face."
Backbiting and resentment are contagious and undermine the morale of everyone who listens to the complaints of the disgruntled. It therefore behooves the leader to avoid arousing bitterness in the followers by harsh criticism improperly administered. (See problem 4 at the end of the lesson.) When criticising a subordinate, LESSON DEPARTMENT first praise his work where it rightfully deserves it; then let him answer questions to himself about how he can improve; let him find the criticism as though it is partly his own idea. It makes him feel better when you appear to respect his ability to find what is wrong. An effective method in some cases is to disarm him by pointing out in a kindly way and admitting as far as possible beforehand the alibis he is likely to make.
This approach avoids an open affront to the worker's ego and thereby prevents building up resistance to new ideas and criticism. For the leader to admit a similar mistake or fault saves the follower's pride and establishes friendly feeling between tke leader and follower.
Enthusiasm is contagious and one of the most valuable assets of the leader.
This is no more true anywhere than in Church work.
Someone has said that there are no good or poor groups of workers?only good or poor leaders.
Leadership depends much upon the enthusiasm the leader has for his cause. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young had great enthusiasm for their work?and the ability to pass it on to their followers. They, like Jesus, were great because through their leadership they imbued their followers with great enthusiasm for the cause they espoused. VII.
Concerning the Art of Friendship. A friendship grows when there is a community of interests between two people, when they mutually satisfy certain needs for recognition, sharing of joys and sorrows, and expression to one's inner feelings and aspirations.
Friends must be good listeners on occasion. Sometimes, 845 one party of the friendship is docile and submissive, the other domineering. The submissive party gains recognition through the fact that the other one cares to dominate him, and the dominating one finds in the friendship a "kingdom to rule? which he may not find anywhere else. However, most friendships rest on common interests and enthusiasms, or enjoyment of the same things,?and sometimes even through sharing the same enemies.
Most joys are made more intense by mutual participation of others.
Laird made a study of the reasons why people are not liked. A few of the reasons found are expressed in the following questions.
They are presented here to show some of the obstacles to forming and maintaining friendly relations. The questions are only each fifth question in Laird's inventory (quoted by Starch, et al. Page 272): | 1. Can you always be depended upon to do what you say you will? 5. Do you refrain from showing off how much you know? 10. Do you keep from domineering others? ?15. Do you avoid finding fault with everyday things? 20. Do you always control your temper? 25. Do you have patience with modern ideas? 30. Do you avoid asking favors of others? 35. Are you conservative in politics? 40. Do you avoid borrowing things? 45. Do you avoid making fun of people to their faces? (Laird, 846 D. A. Why We Don't Like People, pages 300-31. New York; Glaser, 1933 second edition). The answers to these questions give a picture of one's ability to make friends.
Notice that the questions are directed to specific habits of dealing with people. VIII. Hew to Get Along With Yourself. If you are really interested in other people for their own sakes, not for the personal gain you may derive from them, you will be able to praise others without strain or effort. If, however, you have sensitive feelings, if you are always concerned with defending your own ego?which is to say that you have inferiority feelings or an inferiority complex ?praise requires the greatest of effort and even embarrassment. In this case, to praise means to you that you admit your own inferiority. But the best medicine for feelings of inferiority is to get your thoughts off your own shortcomings.
What better antidote for inferiority feelings is there than to receive praise, and praise freely and sincerely given paves the way for others to praise you.
Bitter rivalries often arouse feelings of inferiority and an absorption in one's own inner thoughts. The thought stream flows inward.
Psychologists call this tutroversion.
Introverts are more interested in their own thoughts than in the outside world, and more interested in inanimate things than in people' They would rather read a book than see a ball game, and often they "feel just miserable."
Their feelings are easily hurt. In extreme degrees introversion means much the same thing as emotional instability, and is often associated with inferiority feelings.
Introversion is opposed to sociability. Introverts find it difficult to praise others, and therefore they have few friends and are seldom praised. Because they have few friends, they are not much interested in social things, and their personalities become warped so that free communion with others is difficult?just as one has difficulty speaking a foreign language after a few years of disuse. This inefficiency in social relations is unpleasant to the introvert and drives him farther into his shell, "to walk unhappily alone." (In this connection, for those who care to pursue this line of thought further, see H. C. Link's Return to Religion, New York; Macmillan, 1936.) Extreme introversion is an unhealthful condition. Only. By living with others can we gain the praise and recognition upon which our egos are nourished. If you would get along with yourself, learn to get along with others. He who loses his life in the service of others shall truly find it. Problems for Discussion 1. Discuss the practical value of the Golden Rule as a guide to getting along with people, in the home, in business, and in Church work. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them," (Matthew 7:12). 2. Show how practice of the second great commandment contributes to mental health: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," (Matthew 22:36-40). 3. What is the significance of the ability to give genuine praise, as related to good personality adjustment? 4, Read Doctrine and Covenants
LESSON DEPARTMENT 121:34-46. Show why the Priesthood does become an ineffective kind of leadership if based upon '"'unrighteous dominion." Show why reproof "betimes with sharpness," is doubly effective when followed by expressions of love and appreciation. (See v. 43) 5. Why do people who are selfcentered seldom make good leaders?. 6. What would you say is the best formula for getting along with people? The best formula for getting along with yourself? 7. Interpret in the light of what you have learned from this lesson about leadership, the following statement: "A sales manager, speaking to his subordinates who in turn were district managers 847 with men working under them, said, "As the boss is, so is the gang." How does this same principle apply to the organization units of the Relief Society? Reference for Further Study 1. Bennett, M. E., Building Your Life, pages 240-251, New York: Whittlesey House, 1935. 2. Starch, D., et al., Controlling Human Behavior, pages 258-299
New York; Macmillan, 1936. 3. Morgan, J. J. B., Keeping a Sound Mind, pages 385-414; New York; Macmillan, 1934. 4. Webb, E. T., & Morgan, J. J. B., Strategy In Handling People, pages 7-59 especially, but see the table of contents; Chicago; Boulton, Pierce & Co., 1931. Education for Family Life