[Vol25 | December 1938 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Family Relationships Lesson Three Security Through Family Relationships]

FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS LESSON THREE SECURITY THROUGH FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EACH member of the family has somewhat different needs, in respect to security, because: I. The' home means something different to each one.
Women value companionability in a husband. A man may be a "good provider," may be a community leader, may be a person of fine character in other ways; but if he always acts as if his wife were an inferior person, if he ridicules her Opinions and acts as if it were not worth while to talk over any serious subject with her, she is not likely to be satisfied with him as a husband. She will lack that feeling of security which is essentional to self-respect and efficiency. The average man, on the other hand, values a wife not because she is intellectually satisfying,? intellectual comradeship is rarely the prime motive in his choice of a spouse,?but because she is emotionally satisfying and a good home-maker.
Each partner must therefore recognize the other's special needs and meet them. II.
People differ greatly by nature in their degree of self-sufficiency.
People high in this trait 848 do not ask advice, perhaps do not take it if given unasked. A valuable trait in business, it may be a handicap in marriage.
Women are likely to be less self-sufficient than men; they are more anxious to talk things over, to get the husband's advice on even trivial matters.
Sometimes a husband who does not understand this, and who is himself high in self-sufficiency, is irked by his wife's frequent requests that he express an opinion on some matter which he thinks she should decide for herself. Far from expressing resentment in such a case, the husband must recognize it as part of his job, and go out of his way to help his wife. She wants, more than almost anything else, to please him; she can have no feeling of security if he refuses to give her the help that she thinks she needs. On the other hand, of course, many a wife needs to develop more self-reliance. III. The children's feeling of security is closely bound up with the need for harmony between their parents. <A long series of studies reveals how much the child's behavior may be affected if he feels that he cannot depend on the stability and permanence of his home.
Beyond this, the children must develop a feeling of emotional security on their own account by gradually getting some understanding (proportionate to their age and grasp) of: (a) themselves, their own capacities and limitations; (b) sex; (c) God, religion, and death (these three ideas overlap greatly in the mind of the little child); (d) wealth, power, and authority (ideas which overlap similarly). Naturally, the child is not going to solve all these problems, but if RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he is to feel secure he must at least feel that they do not represent something about which he is being deliberately misled, or that some important fact of which he has an inkling is being withheld deliberately from him.
There are two general areas of security which are most critical for the average family: 1, Financial.
This goes without saying.
There are few indeed who have not had to struggle with this phase of security. All studies agree that it is not so much the amount of money available, as the attitude toward it, which decides the family's success. The depression has brought some hardship for almost everyone; yet it has probably strengthened just as many families as it has weakened.
Many a couple have had to cooperate more closely, have had to give up extravagances and harmful luxuries, have had to develop the resources of the home for entertainment instead of spending money "downtown," and have been spiritually strengthened as a consequence.
Fair division of the family income, whether it be large or small, is necessary to a feeling of security on the part of all. 2. Emotional.
Every experienced person knows that the feeling of emotional security in a successful marriage is one of its most valuable elements, and one which can hardly be found outside of marriage. It is recognized as so precious, that any threat to it brings serious disturbances, usually described as jealousy.
Jealousy is popularly supposed to be an evil thing.
This perhaps results from a failure to think through the problem. One is said to be jealous of one's LESSON DEPARTMENT good name, of the honor of one's country, etc.; similarly one should be jealous of the success of one's marriage,?which means _ that jealousy, properly speaking, is a recognition that one legitimately possesses something of great value and is determined to defend the possession. It is one of the cements that holds the home together on a firm foundation. It is not a feeling of jealousy that should be reprobated, but an infantile way of expressing it by tantrums, by making life miserable for the partner,?as. If a husband would treasure his wife because of her high nuisance value! If the security of the home is threatened, each partner should recognize the fact and make a determined effort to improve the situation, not by violence, threats, or hysterics but by making the home and the self more attractive; by studying the partner to find what he wants and legitimately should expect out of the marriage and then seeing that he gets it. 3. For women, there is a third area of security half-way between the two just mentioned.
Many women find their feeling of security is closely associated with their ability to dress properly. Men need more understanding of the legitimate place of clothes in a woman's life.
Studies show (though probably the average man will be incredulous) that the average husband spends more money on his clothes than his wife spends on her clothes. MoreOver, as a woman grows older, she tends to spend less on her wardrobe-?w hich may sometimes mean that she is slipping into a rut and "going to seed," though it may also mean that she has learned to buy more wisely. In 849 any event, it is hard for a woman to have a feeling of emotional security if her husband or her budget obliges her to wear the same hat three years in succession. As a convenient means for analysing the amount of security present, one may check up by reference to the "three areas of human desire" that have often been described: (1) Every woman wants to feel that she is a member in good standing of some social group; that she "belongs"; that she is not an outcast but that she has a feeling of solidarity with the world around her; in a word, her social needs must be satisfied.
This means a normal recreational life, n o r m al associations through the church and community agencies. (2) In addition to this feeling that she is approved by the world in general, she wants to be particularly approved by some one man,?to mean something to him that no other woman can mean, and vice versa. In a word, she must satisfy the needs of her lovelife. (3) But in addition to being a member in good standing of the Great Society, and Mr. Soandso's wife, she also wants to amount to something on her own account, to have an individual reason for existence, to be or do something different from anyone else.
This means self-expression through some creative outlet and, technically, results in "satisfaction of the ego".
Religious experience is part of this; so is motherhood. For one reason or another, some women will be shut off from one of these three areas of satisfaction (which apply also, in principle, to men).
They must develop 850 the others more fully to compensate as far as possible for the one that is missed. But the average married woman should have a normal life in these three respects, and her feeling of security will be ensured by a balance between her satisfactions in these three areas.
Questions and Problems 1. A woman who is seeking a divorce says, "Ideally every child ought to have two parents; but I believe it is better for my boy to be brought up by his mother alone, in an atmosphere of peace, than to be brought up by two parents who are continually quarreling before him."
What would be your comment on this? 2. A highly self-sufficient and capable woman who had been a successful teacher married a man who is emotionally quite dependent on her,?he acts in many ways like a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child toward a mother, expecting her to solve all his problems.
With such a husband she lacks a feeling of security; while the slightest indication of weaning him emotionally makes him feel insecure. How shall she proceed to improve this situation? 3. Dr. G. V.
Hamilton asked two hundred married persons (half men and half women) what they found most objectionable in their partners.
Most of the men said their wives talked too much; most of the women said their husbands did not talk enough.
What changes in the education of young people would be likely to result in greater harmony in marriage, at this point? 4, Apart from those mentioned in this lesson, name three things you think husbands can do to give their wives a greater feeling of security in the home, and three things a wife can do to increase the husband's feeling of security.
Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH LESSON 6