Montpelier Relief Cabin By Harriet Merrill THIRTEEN years ago on July 30th, 1920, Mrs. O. H. Groo and Mrs. Ashley, mother of Dr. G. F. Ashley, decided to collect relics of the Pioneers of Utah, and the first settlers of Montpelier and Bear Lake County. They met with the City Council and asked for a room in the City Hall in which to store them and were cheerfully given a nice room on the second floor, then commenced the advertising and solicitation of relics, and a start was soon accumulated and exhibited in the Pavilion at the first County Fair held in Montpelier. This gave the ladies who sponsored the movement an excellent opportunity to show the people of the county what they were doing and it created a great deal of interest in the work. When the Daughters of the Pioneers were organized in 1927, the relics were turned over to them and Mrs. Groo was appointed custodian. In 1932 the Daughters decided to erect a log cabin for a relic room. The City Council kindly gave us a beautiful building spot, the Forest Supervisor gave us permission to get the logs, men furnished their teams and hauled the logs for us. All the work except the carpentry was done by donation. The carpenter took - milk, butter, eggs, chickens and small fruits for his pay. The Daughters had food sales, candy sales and parties to raise means. The merchants and business men donated liberally. The building was completed in three months. There are many valuable relics. One being a piece of cloth woven in England in 1798 and brought across the plains by one of the early pioneers, also a black silk hood worn by Sally Barker Dunn, who walked across the plains in 1852; a sword that belonged to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who gave it to a very dear friend, a Mr. Wilson, and whose children have donated it to our relic room; a woven raw-nide bottom chair that belonged to Mrs. Groo's grandfather, Phineas Richards, who brought it across the plains with an ox team company in 1848; a piece of wooden water pipe laid in the City of Philadelphia in 1790 and presented MONTPELIER RELIEF CABIN 585 by Bishop Henry H. Hoff in 1929, also an organ, which was one of the first in Montpelier, and brought to Utah in 1866. It was donated by Mrs. Margaret H. Phelps, whose father gave it to her on her sixteenth birthday. She is now 83 years of age. There are candle moulds, old books, spinning wheels, ox-yoke, pictures, and an old clock which was brought from Switzerland by one of the converts in 1879. Together with many other interesting relics too numerous to mention.