A New Philosophy of Life By Fred Wimmer Bennion HISTORY flows like a river. The current swirls and eddies through the centuries; pauses from time to time tnrough long stretches of a wide and placid stream, seemingly content with its destiny, just before it enters the rapids, roaring tumultuously and _ inevitably through the cataract below. And then, no matter how rough, and destructive the tortuous channels may have been, the stream again moves smoothly along when it reaches the floor of tne open plain. From the rough, narrow, dark, defiles of the Civil War sixties, the American stream of history emerged to pursue its course of peaceful contentment. For more than half a century, except for minor disturbances, the beautiful, peaceful river flowed on, unconscious of the impending dangers ahead. Suddenly the World War plunged it into an annihilating abyss. So erosive was the action that when the precipitous dash of tne waters was checked, they were muddy, and murky, and dark. History has not repeated itself, for while the stream flows on, it fails, as in former periods to clear and settle. Nor will it settle until a new philosophy of life is developed. Laws, mandates or treaties, kings, dictators or presidents cannot bring peace, order and economic sufhciency without a changed attitude of the individual based on a different philosophy of life. That philosophy must provide for changed attitudes of the individual toward himself, toward his community and his country, and toward the whole world. IRST: The new philosophy must change our personal sense of values. It must intensify our appreciation for the beautiful things in life rather than the material. Markets and banks have failed but nothing else has failed us. Prices have gone down but not one acre has lost its fertility, and all the electrons, protons, and otner waves keep on working in their accustomed ways. The depression has come and people have lost money but an invoice will discover that we are still rich. All our capacity for the enjoyment of life is still intact. Our hundred thousand dollar eyes are just as good as ever. Every magnificent landscape and gorgeous sunset is ours if we want it. Ten thousand dollar scenes and views of majestic mountains, beautiful canyons and streams are added to our collection almost every week. A hundred thousand dollar sense of hearing is still unimpaired and by it we become heirs to a world of beauty and inspiration. The depression has not lowered the value of a single friendship. Our fellow students and neighbors greet us in the same cordial way, instructors still believe we are going to amount to something in life, and parents maintain their undying confidence in us. My faith in the goodness of the universe is unimpaired, for by that faith, I am emboldened to face defeat and despair. The prayers of my childhood and the faith in God that is instilled in me remain a devout treasure no depression can touch. No man becomes great by becoming rich. Neither does a man find enduring satisfaction in life by merely owning something?only by becoming something. The most degrading A NEW PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE poverty is that which results from killing the spirit that the body may be served. The last few months have been for many men a thrilling spiritual adventure through which they have discovered their real wealth. Bereft of dividends and profits, they are discovering the sustaining powers of a strong religious faith, the abiding values of courage, honor, and charity. A financial crisis can wipe out profits and bring business to a standstill, but character is beyond its reach. It can rob us of all we have, but it cannot affect what we are. This must be the new philosophy that will change the attitude of the individual toward himself. ECONDLY; the new philosophy must go further and change the individual's attitude toward this community and his country. No man lives in a community without having a responsibility for being there. A community is solvent when the majority of the people put as much into it as they take out of it. The community or the nation, depends for its success, upon its ability to produce citizens who will think not simply of individual progress and selfish gain, but also of the good of the group. Community spirit is merely pooling the surplus, which individual citizens have beyond private desires, and which they can contribute unselfishly to the good of the group. Spirit is to a community what cement is to concrete. It is the power that takes the individual particles of stone, and gravel and sand and binds them into permanent relationship. It makes the foundation upon which to build community progress. You and I know of citizens who come into the community to bleed it for all it is worth. You have seen 587 the man who is willing to lower the confidence of a nation in its governmental institutions by creating graft and bribery if he can enrich himself. Such a person is a parasite. He is drawing out regardless of what he contributes. Such are the people who wreck the world. If we are to change the order of things in our communities and nation we must fling back into public life men who think in terms of the group and the nation rather than of self, or class, or section. Men in businesses run solely for private gain, must shake off their indifference to national affairs and be made tc feel the sense of community responsibility. Far worse than indifference to national affairs, on the part of the individual, has been his active alliance with well organized class or sectional minorities existing solely to promote their own political interest. The clashing character of state and sectional interests served by Congressmen who have been moved by desire for political survival has been the fundamental cause for many legislative monstrosities. No matter how good the original bill or how much needed in the interests of national welfare, it rarely gets by except in the gravest emergency without being modified, compromised, diluted, twisted, distorted, and tortured out of all reasonable shape. Progress comes when men of broad vision and willingness to serve the public good, think their way through, undaunted by political pull, unswerved by private or sectional or class gain. We are living in a day when the instruments of propaganda are being developed as never before, by people, by radio, and by press. Every day newspapers broadcast calumnies against opponents. Such invectives find their way into our hearts, and 588 there harden into solid walls, the frail partitions that at first separated differing points of view. The walls are built ever higher and ever more soundproof until no one sees or hears the other man again. When individuals or groups have some purpose they want to serve, they have an opportunity to fling it at the community en masse. We produce things en masse in the United States and we tend to think en masse, to follow somebody and too often the person who raises his voice is the person who has a private end to gain. The men who made our country, who created our liberty, and who | brought our constitution out of chaos, were not men who simply thought about it. They stood up as the signers of the constitution recognizing it might mean the loss of every cent they had and possibly of their lives. This is the kind of community and national attitude the new philosophy demands. THIRD: The new philosophy must also embrace a more tolerant and less selfish attitude toward the world at large. For a century America, physically isolated from the Old World, heeded the advice of Washington to exercise the greatest prudence in foreign entanglements. But the international barriers of oceans, mountain ranges, and streams once almost insumountable, have gradually disappeared only to be replaced by formidable barriers of misunderstanding, prejudices, selfishness and jealousy. Before 1914 the average American knew little and cared less about European affairs. The issues on whica the War was begun were rather obscure. When President Wilson, in 1917, led a bewildered nation into war, a new international attitude was created. The intense patriotic appeal to make the world safe for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE democracy and the mingling millions of men of many nations in one common cause fired the imagination, and America passed into an emotional stage of international attitude. In sympathy for suffering allies, wealth and man power were mobilized. Having helped win the war we assumed leadership in the reorganization of Europe, and then, good money was thrown after bad in an attempt to bring about an economic reconstruction tnat would enable Europe to pay her debts to us. NOW today, with foreign trade destroyed and financial disaster about us, with France repudiating her obligations and other European nations unable to pay, the attitude of the American people is becoming dangerously resentful and vindicative. Many would like to turn back the river of history. But that is impossible! Whether we like it or not, the world has become dependent on friendly international relations. Such relations cannot be brought about by mere scrapping of battleships and implements of war; there must be a mental disarmament resulting from a new international philosophy. The first factor is an understanding by one people of others. Until some progress is made in this direction, other efforts must fail. An enterprise is more than bricks and mortar, and machinery. Its vitality is the kind of spirit that moves it. A nation is more than fields, factories, and mines. Its group reactions are determined by the spirit and mentality of its citizens and if we are to understand the peoples of other nations we must understand the spirit that moves within them?that living intangible spirit, the self-starter of national activities. IMPROVING and changing our philosophy of life is slow, laborious A NEW PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE and difficult. There must be a long process of instruction, of information, and of gradual effect of example in bringing about better conditions of thought. The task of developing a new philosophy that will change man's attitude toward himself through a new personal evaluation of life; toward 'his community and his country through a complete sense of individual responsibility; and toward the world at large by a more genuine realization of the social and economic interdependence of nations is not insurmountable nor 589 is it a mere idealistic dream. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in his inaugural address sounded a challenge for a new philosophy when he said: "Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort. The joy and moral stimulation of work must no longer be forgotten in the mad chase for evanescent profits. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men.