[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Rose H. WidtsoeDoctor of]

The shock and grief of this experience did serious damage to Sister Widtsoe's nervous ROSE HOMER WIDTSOE advanced money to buy a quantity of mill-ends for underwear. The women cut out and usually sewed the garments, in many cases trimming them with crocheted lace. The Salt Lake Knitting Store cooperated with the women by sewing up the union suits on a power machine. The Relief Societies and Church Aid Committees distributed purchase tickets for these articles to those in need, for the depression was on, and the "flu" epidemic, and there were many in distress. A Rubens shirt for babies costing from $1.25 to $1.50 in the system and general health. She struggled heroically to overcome the weakness, but without much success. Her one great consolation at this time was the knowledge of the truth of the everlasting covenant between them, the feeling that her mate was still interested in her welfare, that he loved and waited for her.
That summer the New York Charity Organization in cooperation with Teachers College, Columbia, gave a course in advanced welfare work to forty-six outstanding women in the United States. Rose Widtsoe's 526 friends had suggested her name as a candidate, without her knowledge, and she was invited to attend.
Fighting ill health, she did the best she could, and found the work stimulating and helpful. Returning, she was asked to organize a class of ninety widows, for whom the county was caring, whose husbands had died in the "flu" epidemic.
This was a supremely difficult task for her with her own bereavement so fresh. She taught them budgeting. The women accounted for the expenditure of each bi-weekly check, before the next was available. Sister Widtsoe checked these reports and found that they were not buying milk and fresh vegetables in sufficient quantities. Laboring, she converted them to the need of these foods. Mrs.
Widtsoe was also keeping records of the budgets of 205 families who received assistance.
These were in three distinct income groups.
Upon these studies she later based her thesis for her M. A. Degree. © [X spite of Mrs. Widtsoe's efforts her health did not improve, and she felt obligated to resign her position.
Despair was her portion. One day President Thomas of the University of Utah asked her why she did not go away to study. " "Do you suppose I could be sure of a position when I returned?' she asked wearily. "One can never be sure," he replied. "I know of nothing definite, but it has been my observation that the person who is prepared is the one who gets the position." Mrs.
Widtsoe was still very weak. She could not sleep. She could not remember. She could not concentrate. Her house had been in the clear, but unfortunately two weeks before her husband's death, they had been obliged to mortgage it for three thousand dollars.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Nevertheless this widow with two daughters to support borrowed two thousand dollars on a block of stock she possessed, and went to Berkeley, taking her daughters with her. After a most difficult year she received her M. A. Degree in 1922, in Economics. She felt the need of a closer relation between this subject and home economics, since women spend eighty-five per cent of the money which goes over the counter. She did some pioneering along this line. When her professor felt that the proper research work could not be done for her proposed thesis on "Standards of Living in America," she explained the work she had done with the different groups in Utah, and was given an opportunity to help pioneer a "standard of living" experiment in Berkeley. Upon her combined research work in both states, she based her valuable thesis. Mrs. Widtsoe now looked forward to coming home and teaching. But Dr. Thomas asked her if she could not remain another year. She was appalled at the advice. She did not know how to obtain funds. Her spirit was crying out for help. Consumed with perplexity she sat alone in her room one morning and said aloud in desperation, "What shall I do?" Suddenly her being was electrified. She distinctly felt the spirit of her husband enter the room, approach her, remain beside her. In some way it imparted to her that she must remain. Then she was conscious that it left the room. Sister Widtsoe felt uplifted and happy. She spoke to the Dean about the annual Thompson scholarship of six hundred dollars for a Utah student. To her surprise, she received this grant. Her health was better, and she did a heavy year's work toward her Ph. D. Degree. In the spring she was offered the position of head of the department of Home WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW Economics in the Brigham Young University, in the Agricultural College at Logan, and in the University of Utah, which position had only just become vacant. Her work in the University of Utah has been outstanding. No college credit used to be given for any work in the University in domestic science. This course counted only toward a Normal certificate. Now one may take an M. A. Degree in home economics. Courses are now given in child development, and a W. P. A. Nursery school functions in connection with the department. In the nutrition department chemical analysis of foods is made, and also each student experiments with animals. When girls see white rats losing their hair and becoming lifeless and ugly when robbed of certain vitamins and see them brighten up when the vitamins are added, they will never forget the picture, and surely they will not be careless about the feeding of their children in the future, says Mrs. Widtsoe, who is always a very popular teacher. Registered in her department this summer are more than 800 students. The quarterly departmental registration has increased from 250 to 1307 during her regime. [XN 1931
Mrs.
Widtsoe received her Ph. D.
Degree from Berkeley. Her thesis was "The Economic Justification for Pure Food Laws, Federal, State, and Municipal." She did a great deal of work in the Boalt Law School, to get this material. Also, to see the practical application of these laws, she climbed rope ladders into incoming steamships, to examine foods carried; she went to railCL 527 road terminals, wholesale houses, and abattoirs, working for many months with the food inspector. In 1932, Mrs.
Widtsoe was appointed Home Economics Consultant for the W. P. A.
After three years of carrying her heavy double burden, she was obliged to resign, because it was too much for her. She feels, however, that the W. P. A.
Work she did was the most useful of her life. She organized 482 classes in nutrition, every county in the state being represented. She wrote and sent out lessons. She organized thirty-three food conservation centers where food raised at home or on government projects could be canned with machinery and cans furnished by the government. In twenty-seven counties school lunches were provided, the first year to children on relief, the second to all children, and as this became too great a burden, to any child at a cost of two or three cents for a hot dish to supplement the dry bread, usually brought from home.
Thirty thousand children who were literally starving were thus rescued. Two years of Mrs. Widtsoe's W. P. A.
Work was done without any financial compensation.
With all her fine intelligence, Dr.
Widtsoe has been first and foremost an excellent wife and mother. No honors she has received gives her the joy she finds in the memory of her beloved husband, and in the liying presence of her two daughters with their husbands and her three lovely grandchildren. Her ambitions were all directed to helping her daughters, who have received every possible advantage, and have been worthy of any sacrifices which Mrs.