[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: The Gift of Wisdom]
Gift of Wisdom 
By George Gardner "A CHILD and a man," says Dr. Long, "were one day walking on the seashore when the child found a little shell and held it to his ear. Suddenly he heard sounds—strange, low, melodious sounds—as if the shell were remembering and repeating to itself the murmurs of its ocean home. The child's face filled with wonder as he listened. Here in the little shell, apparently, was a voice from another world, and he listened with delight to its mystery and music. Then came the man, explaining that the child 'heard nothing strange, that the pearly curves of the shell caught a multitude of sounds too faint for human ears, * * * It was not a new world, but only the unnoticed harmony of the old that had aroused the child's wonder." The shell, the radio, the microscope and the telescope have brought to man's attention a world richer and more beautiful and more interesting than he had dreamed possible. There are sounds and sights and truths to gladden the hearts of t' ose who believe in the scripture, "Seek and ye shall find." The commonplace appears extraordinary to such men. They are very rare and very important in the long march of progress to a better world. There are beauties and richness of life for them and for all those who do not "live by bread alone." In the fields and the streams and the forests and the homes and the hills there are multiform sights and sounds for the noble band of listeners and seekers. But these beauties and truths are oblivious to most of us. The dishes, the stoves, the brooms, the plows and the hoes make only grain and flour and bread to the common man, but for others they make life itself. There is beauty in the fields and music in the woods and the homes and these give a special flavor and a special fragrance for those who know how to live. "Life," said the great Socrates, 'is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." The riches of the scripture, of poetry and music and art are for those who have wisdom; they live beautifully. Their lives are the reflection of truth and beauty, abundant in the world and always about us, but unseen and unheard except by rare, sensitive and precious human souls. The child who puts his ear to the shell, the sensitive soul who sees that which is extraordinary in the commonplace has learned this truth: "Life is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom."
