[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the Books]

Though despair or joy be mine today, Help me to walk like Thee, I pray. Note: The study of the character of Jesus in Relief Society during the past year inspired the thoughts expressed in this poem. Out of the Best Books By Kate Wilde "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." —Doctrine and Covenants 88:118. THE CLASS LEADER AT HOME HE wise class leader who has | an entire month in which to prepare her lessons, will make good use of each day in this period. She will not be content with a frenzied attempt at preparation just before class time. She will realize that the part of her lesson which takes the greatest effort and which is the most important is her preparation.
Largely upon the exertion which she puts forth at home depends her success in the class period.
That she might have "the spirit of wisdom and revelation" prayer should precede and accompany all her efforts in lesson preparation.
Through humble, sincere prayer she places herself in a position to receive that divine inspiration and aid without which any effort will be inadequate.
Reading the material and suggestions given in the Magazine will assure her teaching the lesson planned by the General Board; it will give her the Latter-day Saint viewpoint, and will help her to harmonize her lesson with the lessons which are to be given that day in other Relief Societies throughout the Church. Now she is ready to read the text.
Here she will take notes of the important things she wishes to include, and the quotations she desires to use. She will check carefully to make sure everything she has included is in tune with the attitudes indicated in the Magazine. She will then study and take notes on all of the suggested references, also other relevant material to which she may have access. If all of this has been done at least a week before lesson time, she will have time to assimilate much of this material. If she never has tried this method of preparation, she will be surprised at the number and variety of pertinent thoughts which come to her. In conversation with her family and friends, many helpful ideas may be gained.
From her husband she may get the viewpoint of one holding the Priesthood with the added enlightenment which this brings.
These thoughts and ideas she will jot down for future use. She now has the background material fairly well in hand, and is ready to begin the definite planning of her lesson. The class leader realizes that she does not teach just to present the lesson material. She hopes to teach certain truths by means of this material. So the first step in planning her lesson will be to select an objective to definitely determine just what she wishes to teach through the various facts presented.
Then with her objective constantly in mind, she organizes her lesson material, selecting the incidents and illustrations from her notes which will develop the objective. She may find it necessary to do additional research on certain items and to eliminate others. She will not be alarmed if she has taken notes on material which she does not include. She wants to be certain, however, that she has included all of the material that is necessary in carrying the objective home to each sister, and that this can be presented in the allotted time. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Now that her material is all prepared and organized, just how will she use it in the lesson period?
Whether it will be by the lecture method, by questions, discussions, or a combination of methods will be determined at home.
Whatever method is employed, the use of several good thought-provoking questions will help hold the attention and interest of the class. The final step in preparation should be familiarizing herself with the material to the extent that reference to an outline is all that is necessary for developing the lesson.
Exceptions to this statement include reading short excerpts that would lose materially by being told. _The preparation which the teacher gives her lesson cannot be seen by her class, but it is sensed by them. The wise class leader is the thoroughly prepared one, who so employes her time at home that she goes to Relief Society able to do more than just give her lesson; she really teaches her class. THE TEACHER IN THE CLASS ROOM 'THE day of the lesson has arrived. The class leader has studied the material in the Magazine, the text, and the references given. She has formulated her objective, and organized her material with this constantly in mind. She has become so familiar with the material that reference to an outline is ordinarily all that is necessary.
This means she does not need to have a number of notes, papers or books to shuffle about.
Before leaving home she again seeks divine assistance, that the truths she has studied might be used most effectively, and that her words and actions might be pleasing in the sight of the Father, and instructive to. The class members. She.
Faces her class knowing that 547 many present have had educational advantages at least equal to her own; therefore, she thinks of the members as equals, never as inferiors. The wise class leader has prepared in various ways for contributions from the class.
Special reports, summaries, stories, readings, and telling of personal experiences to add interest to the lesson, have been assigned in advance.
Last month's lesson is briefly recalled in order to correlate the subject matter. The class leader is aware that the objective selected is never stated at the beginning of the lesson, but permeates the entire lesson. In presenting the lesson, the lecture method is much better than reading the material, although whenever practicable, discussions should be used.
Varying the method frequently will avoid monotony. The interesting teacher often challenges attention by an unusual approach to the subject matter.
Through questions and discussions she keeps the members of the class mentally alert. She realizes that most of the sisters have access to the Magazine. She encourages them to prepare their lessons at home by refraining from reading them the material given, but assumes their knowledge by asking questions about it. The poorly prepared teacher who must read one paragraph before formulating a question, then read another to - see if the answer is given correctly, may discourage preparation and attendance as well.
Many class members not only read their lessons, but study them by looking up the meaning and pronunciation of unfamiliar words or phrases, and reading the references. If the teacher who has a class of this type wants the members to come and enjoy her lesson, she cannot use slipshod methods.
When the teaching has been effective, the truth expressed in the ob- 548 jective has reached the various members of the class.
Through questions near the close of the period, the teacher can often help class members to see the application of the truths taught in their own lives. The class leader should always bear in mind that it is not the subject matter but the individuals of the class whom she teaches.
When her teaching becomes so effective RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that her objectives are being attained, 'in that the knowledge, habits or attitudes of these individuals are changing for the better, she may know she is.
Using the course of study for the benefit of those she teaches.