[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: She Makes An Art of]

Widtsoe has joyfully made for them. == She Makes an Art of Friendship By E. C. C. F Shirley's friends were to be asked why they love her, one might say, "Because she looks like a madonna—her big dark eyes so full of mystery, and wisdom, and understanding;" another, "Because she converses so interestingly of new books and magazines that I, though I am really no busier than she, never find time to read;" a third, "Because of her keen sense of humor and her witty way of saying commonplace things."
Someone else would be sure to mention her hospitality, her ability to make a festive occasion of a glass of lemonade and a cheese sandwich, or her sympathy which makes one wish to share with her the minutest disappointment or happiness. And so on and on they would go through all the characteristics that make up the ideal friend. I used to wonder at her great number and variety of friends. The rest of our little group have a normal number of congenial companions who are about the same age, and have had somewhat similar experiences, and have similar tastes. But her circle is so much wider, so much more varied.
Little boys come to show her their pigeons and kites; little girls bring their.
Doll families and play on her lawn; high school students come for her advice on lessons and jobs, and budding loves; young married couples bring their family troubles to her and love to have her with them at their parties; Jone old men and women adore her and regard a visit from her as a memorable occasion. At last I discovered her secret. She makes an art of friendship. To her it is not an ordinary plant to be allowed to grow if it will without any care. It is a precious one to be guarded and nourished until it brings forth its beautiful flowers. We all have sudden impulses to do nice little things for those about us: tell Edith how well she sang last night, John how handsome he looks in his new overcoat; or to write a letter to Mrs.
Lane whose daughter was killed in an accident, or spend an hour reading to blind Uncle Jerry. But with most of us these impulses are still-born. Not so with Shirley. One day her impulse matures into a little afternoon social for a group of her tired fellow-teachers where she reads a favorite poem or a humorous essay as her guests relax on her couch.
Another day, she takes an old couple for a ride or sends a new game toa sick child.
Every day it is something which adds a bit of interest, or fun, or beauty to the world. She is always alert, looking for opportunities to add a little comfort or happiness to someone else's life, and what she gives adds radi- 'ance to her own. She knows the psychology of surprises. She serves old dishes in new ways; she puts gay dresses on her letters and little notes, and finds new words for everyday thoughts and events.
When her daughter comes home to visit, she is sure to find a new handkerchief or pin or bottle of perfume in her dresser drawer; when she returns to her work, she is sure to carry back, tucked away some place in her traveling bag, something to make her laugh, or think, or feel —a cartoon or joke, or a few lines of lovely poetry.
Shirley loves poetry and has memorized hundreds of choice lines. SHE MAKES AN ART OF FRIENDSHIP These bits of rare description, gems of philosophy, snatches of lyric rhythm, together with her sense of humor and her own original picturesque speech make her a captivating conversationalist. She always has a quotation to make a sunset, a moonrise, a bon-fire more significant; an apt figure of speech or an amusing reminiscence to make an odd person or an unusual situation more interesting.
Most of us take for granted the little group of friends our circumstances and tastes naturally bring to us.
Shirley is constantly widening her friendship circle.
Though her own mother is dead, on every Mother's Day she does something nice for someone else's mother—sends a potted plant, some bulbs, a note of greeting and appreciation for the courage, or patience, or loyalty of this '"somebody-else's mother." On the birthday of a childhood pal, who died many years ago, she always writes to the girl's mother.
When a great sorrow or joy comes to an acquaintance, she drops in or writes her sympathy or congratulations.
Recently twenty young persons who had been in her first grade 529 class twelve years ago received a telegram on the night of their graduation that added to the pride of that occasion. One day she read of a fire which destroyed a farmer's home in the night while the family was away.
Immediately she bundled blankets, clothing, and food into her car and drove out to the stricken family. She has suffered troubles and misfortunes that would crush most people. She has faced many of life's cruelest sorrows. But her spirit is indominatable. She has found the fountain of "perpetual commonsense and looking on the best side of things." She knows that a time will come when she cannot get about to do many of the kindly acts that bring her such pleasure now. But she doesn't brood because of that overhanging fate.
Doubtless she realizes, as her friends do, that when that time comes, no less than now, she will go on weaving her beautiful tapestry of friendship, sending out from its central figure, which is her own lovely personality, threads of silver and gold to bind innumerable other personalities into her design.