[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Supreme Gift]

Five hundred sixty people from twenty states, and the writer of this article the only one from Utah! Ce > "A mind and spirit that can recognize and welcome the highest when it comes is one of the supreme gifts of man. It is indeed true that, next to genius, what is most like it is the power to know and admire it.
Next to being creatively great one's self is the capacity to recognize greatness when one sees it, and make room."—Harry Emerson Fosdick. Women We Should Know RosE Homer WiptsoE—Doctor or PHILOSOPHY (University of Utah—Home Economics Department Head) By Ramona W. Cannon OSE HOMER of Oxford, R Idaho, was graduated from the Utah Agricultural College in 1900.
That year she began teaching and in 1902 established the department of Home Economics in the B. Y.
College in Logan, where she remained for four years. She then married Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, head of the department of English in the L. D. S. High School. In the beautiful, simple temple ceremony the couple exchanged vows of affection and fidelity for time and for all eternity, little realizing how soon time would end, eternity begin for one of them.
While it endured, theirs was an exceptionally happy marriage.
Both were lovers of home, children, arid religion, and were fond of books, flowers, and especially of each other.
They built a charming house on Wall Street with book shelves reaching to the ceiling.
These were soon filled with volumes indicating the varied tastes and interests of the pair of bibliophiles. After Brother Widtsoe's death, his wife, remembering how he had always liked to have his books in use, gave his professional library of 1500 volumes to the University of Utah with the request that books be added each year.
Sixty dollars worth of books have been added annually until now the Osborne Widtsoe library is a very choice acquisition of the State Institution.
Despite this gift, the shelves that reach the ceiling on Wall Street are still filled with volumes collected, read and loved by the married pair.
They shed throughout the house a lingering essence of the personality of Brother Widtsoe, who was—yes, is—an integral part of this home.
Before many years, two small daughters, Karen and Rosetta added to the joy of their parents. _In 1910
Mrs.
Widtsoe became matron of girls and lecturer at the L. D. S. High School. For two years her constructive, wholesome influence was felt by those with whom she worked. As an illustration of her good sense, she urged the girls not to wear their soiled and worn-out party dresses to school. Osborne Widtsoe became principal of the L. D. S. High School, and later head of the English department at the University of Utah. His wife for some years remained at home devoting her capable attention to their little girls. N 1917 when America was conserving such foods as wheat, sugar and butter to send to the boys "over there', Mrs.
Widtsoe was asked to become City Food Administrator. She was the only woman in the United States to hold that position.
Permits from her office had to be issued for all'sugar purchased in Salt Lake. As part of her work Mrs.
Widtsoe gave lectures on nutrition, especially on the use of substitutes for whit