[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Magazine Dive]

Magazine Drive NCE again the stakes and wards are making preparation for the Magazine Drive which in most places will be held from September 15 to October 15.
Last season achievements were most gratifying. We reached the highest circulation in our history and the Magazine went into homes which had never before known it.
This accomplishment was the result of tireless effort, both in planning the drive, directing the work and in making the actual sales contacts. We greatly appreciate the splendid service of those responsible for this success. The benefits derived from the work of those connected with the Magazine Drive can scarcely be measured.
Theirs is a service to the General Board, the stake and local officers, class leaders, Relief Society members, and is also a missionary service in thousands of homes. HIS year we trust that plans will be just as carefully made as heretofore; that the representatives will be equally versatile and diligent and that the same measure of success will be attendant. We urge that Executive Officers be ready to assist in every way possible.
Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so, and their active support is a source of encouragement to agents whose work is intensified during the Drive. The goal of the Drive should be a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in the organization — active, inactive, and honorary. We suggest that the agents secure the exact enrollment figure as of January 1, 1938 from the Secretary.
This figure should be the same as that sent to the General Office in the annual report. "THE new grouping for awards should be an added stimulus.
Wards will be divided into three groups—A, B, C. Group A will include all wards with a total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B will include all wards with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C will include all wards with a total enrollment up to 49. To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
This grouping gives all wards an opportunity for position among those receiving the highest percentages. HE new report forms, which have already been mailed to the stakes, should simplify the record keeping and assist in the accuracy of reporting percentages. We urge again that all stake representatives see that reports reach our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be listed on the honor roll. In the past this has caused great disappointment. WE trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our agents: 1.
Know the Magazine. Be converted to its worth and the importance of the service you are rendering to both the purchaser and the organization. 2. Aim to contact every home in the ward. 3.
Talk intelligently on what the Magazine contains. 4, Study the art of selling.
MAGAZINE DRIVE 545 5.
Keep records accurately. 6.
Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: name, address, when subscription begins, amount of money sent. It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence.
This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same issue to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later.
This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each Agent should carefully read the pamphlet "Instructions to Magazine Agents". The Magazine office will be pleased to assist in any way possible to make the 1938