[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
LESSON DEPARTMENT Religion in the Graeco-Roman World.?The old religions of Greece and Rome had almost completely lost their hold on all classes of people; in fact from the days of Alexander the Great there had been an infiltration of Oriental religions and cults into the West. The so-called mystery religions from Syria and Egypt became dominant in most parts of the civilized world. These religions gave greater satisfaction to the cravings of people for a warm?er and more sympathetic faith. They were emotional in their appeal and catered to the old love of men for secret initiation and mysterious rit?ual. J. A. Findlay points out that the most significant characteristic, common to all of them, is found in the fact that they centered upon the idea of a god or hero who died and rose again, thus ministering to the hope of immortality. None of these cults, he adds, had any connection with anything which we should call morality-only with ceremonial purifications-and indeed a great many of them were bound up with vicious sexual practices of the most demoralizing type. In addition to these popular religions there existed the imperial cult or worship of the Roman emperor. The people of the East found no especial difficulty in deifying each individual 559
Emperor. The Roman rulers were not slow in taking advantage of this peculiar Psychology. We can easily understand why the early Christians had great difficulties at times with the Romans, Their refusal to worship the Emperor might be construed as treason. In our first two lessons we have noted just a few high lights in the world of the ancient Apostles. A more detailed and extended study of that world will gteatly increase your appreciation of the work accomplished by Christ's special witnesses. Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits) 1. Compare and contrast education in the R assign this problem to some sister with special 2. Why would the Romans be much concerned about a falling birthrate? Discuss the problems in?volved with especial reference to conditions now existing in the world. What do you think the attitude of the ancient Apostles was toward the practice of having small families? 3. Compare the divorce problem in the Graeco-Roman world with that of the United States? What are the religious implications of divorce? 4. In the light of religious beliefs in the Roman Empire would the ancient Apostles be likely to have made few or many converts? ? 

  Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME NO. 2.?FEAR Jesus said, "Fear not.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."?Matthew 11:29-30. COURAGE and self-reliance are integral qualities of strong personality.
Fear is an enemy to these qualities.
Children are born with but very few fears, but in their early years, parents teach them many. Who can estimate how much these fears hamper the joyousness of life.
Fear complexes express themselves in many ways. E. M. Ligon, teacher and psychologist, says that fear is the most disintegrating of all the enemies of personality. Worry, anxiety, terror, inferiority complexes, pessimism, greed and the like are all varieties of this one great evil. We lay awake nights dreading possible calamities of the morrow. We do and say cowardly things prompted by it. We are selfish and thoughtless of others in times of danger. Our minds become confused and frantic when it masters us. It undermines our personalities, makes us afraid to stand up for what we believe to be right, and afraid to dedicate our lives to the purpose which challenges our best selves. In time of illness fear is one of the most destructive factors.
Wars are caused because of fear.
Young people do not marry because they fear the responsibility of family life. The Master taught us that we should avoid fears which stand in the way of our perfect development. Did He not say, "Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" and, "Fear not little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom." Jesus, however, also taught that we should have healthful fears. For example, He taught that we should fear sin and him who is able to destroy us; that we should fear ignorance and hypocrisy; that His mercy is with them who fear Him and are obedient to His commandments.
Intelligent observation may protect us from a multitude of senseless fears. To overcome a senseless, destructive fear, it is necessary to bring the thing which we fear into the light, if possible discover the original cause of the fear, examine it in relation to our present state of feeling, and substitute healthful emotional and physical reaction. The individual who sees the situation clearly, who intelligently controls emotion, and substitutes action for worry overcomes many of his fears and develops desirable character and personality. Problems For Discussion 1.
Give illustrations from the life of the Master where by example He taught us to fear not; by precept. 2. How may we overcome worry!
What is its effect upon personality? 3.
What did Jesus teach about anxiety? (See Matthew 6:27.) Explain this in the light of personality. 4.
Name some healthful fears and suggest the type of protective action which they prompt. References: Luke 12:1-32. Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward, LESSON DEPARTMENT 561
Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 2 RoBINSON CRUSOE T may seem a bit strange to some people that Robinson Crusoe should be selected as one of the novels for discussion during this course. If any defense is necessary, perhaps it ig enough to say that most critics regard it as the first of the real English novels and a predecessor of a long line of other novels which were influenced by it. Robinson Crusoe, in a sense, is what the critics are pleased to call a picaresque, OF rogue story.
