Publication of the Book of Mormon (Including the Story of the Book of Mormon Carried by Samuel H. Smith, Brother of the Prophet, to John P. Greene, Who in Turn Carried it to John Young, Father of Brigham Young, and the Kimball Family, Now in Possession of the Writer.) Joseph Fielding Smith, Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Moroni, after completing his record reserved a portion of the last page of his father's abridged account of the history of the Nephites for a description which today we would call the titlepage and preface of the record. In fact what he wrote does so appear in the Book of Mormon and is as follows: "The Book of Mormon, an account written by the hand of Mormon upon plates taken from the plates of Nephi; wherefore it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites—Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile—Written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation—Written and sealed up, and hid up unto the Lord that they might not be destroyed—to come forth by the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof—Sealed by the hand of 'Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile—The interpretation thereof by the gift of Gad. "An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a record of the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were building a tower to get to heaven—Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath 
 done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations—and Now, if there are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the judgment-seat of Christ." In this title-page-preface the promise is made that this record would be preserved to come forth by the power of God to the convincing of the Lamanite, and also the Jew, and also the Gentile, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Throughout the Book of Mormon the prediction is made that this record would be preserved for that purpose, and moreover, to bear witness of the inspiration and sacredness of the Hebrew Scriptures. The promise was made that the contents of this record would be made known among all nations. Nephi wrote that the day would come "that the words of the book which were sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ." Joseph Smith and the Witnesses to the Book of Mormon were deeply impressed with this fact, for in giving to the world their testimonies they worded their address as follows: 'Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peoples, unto whom this work shall come," and then follows their: positive statements concerning the record. Had it not been for the spirit of prophecy they would not have dared to have made their address in such manner, nor would Joseph Smith have dared to have declared that the Book would be distributed in all the world as a witness for Christ. He had no power in himself, even with the help of the eleven witnesses, to bring to pass such a bold and remarkable prediction. Had the Book of Mormon been a fraud, and these men deceivers, it is very probable that the book would not have been known beyond a radius of a very few miles from Palmyra. "Moroni, when he appeared to Joseph Smith, in September, 1823, told Joseph Smith that his name should be known for both good and for evil among all peoples. Today no one will say that this has not been fulfilled. So also has knowledge of the Book of Mormon penetrated the nations of the earth. Wherever the name of Joseph Smith is known the Book of Mormon is also known. Those who have sincerely read it accept it as a divinely inspired record; among those who reject it, it may be looked upon in ignorance as a cunning fraud. However, the word of the Lord spoken anciently has been, and is still being, fulfilled. The Book of Mormon has been published in the following languages: Year Place Language 1830 PalmiytayeN. Y......... Eoee....... English 1851 Copenhagen, Denmark..................000-Danish PUBLICATION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 425 1852 Paris, France.........-- cece e eee cee eensFrench 1852 Merthyr Tidfil, Wales..............0...00 00Welsh 1852 Hamburg, Germany............-..00055..,.. German 1852 London, England........... 2. Eee eee eee eeeItalian 1855 San Francisco, Calif...............0- eeeHawaiian 1878 Copenhagen, Denmark................0006. Swedish 1886 Salt Lake City.......... Eee ce eee ee ee eeeSpanish 1889 Auckland, New Zealand...............00e000-Maori 1890 Rotterdam, Holland.............. EeeDutch 1903 Salt Lake City........... 0.0.0 e eee eee..... Samoan 1904 Salt Lake City 0.0... Cee cee ee ee eeeTahitian 1906 New York, N. Y.... Cee eee eee ee eeeTurkish 1909 Tokio, Japan a.... 7. Eee SE. Japanese In 1923 the Book of Mormon was translated into Hebrew by Herman Miller, but has not been published in that language. The Book of Mormon was translated by Elder James P. Meik in Hindustanee between the years 1854 and 1859, but has not yet been published. The first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed by Egbert B. Grandin at Palmyra, New York, in 1830. The edition was of 5,000 copies and the cost was $3, 000. On the title page of this edition the following appears: "By Joseph Smith, Junior, Author and Proprietor," and on the next page the copyright appears in full. The expression "Author and Proprietor" has caused some adverse criticism by enemies of the Church, but in making this statement Joseph Smith was merely complying with the law at that time governing copyrights. This book contains 588 pages and the testimonies of the Witnesses are in the back of the book. A few of the copies contain an index but most of them were published without this addition. In the first year or two of the existence of the Church the missionaries were without tracts and other printed information on the principles of the gospel and the restoration, and therefore depended almost solely on the Book of Mormon. Each missionary took several copies of the Book of Mormon and tried to dispose of them among the people usually with excellent results. Among the first missionaries to go out, if not actually the first, was Samuel H. Smith, younger brother of the Prophet Joseph. Samuel carried several copies of the Book of Mormon but met with indifferences among the people. Finally he reached the home of a Methodist preacher named John P. Greene and tried to interest that gentleman in the story of Joseph Smith and the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Mr. Greene informed him that he had neither the time to read nor the means to buy the book as he was about to leave on an important preaching tour. However, said he, if Samuel desired to leave a copy of the book he would try to dis- 
 pose of it for him. The book was left and Samuel promised to call again in about two weeks to see what success had been obtained, and feeling somewhat discouraged departed. In the mean time Mr. Greene started to read the Book of Mormon, more out of curiosity than from any desire to gain information, for he had no faith in the story that had been told him. The more he read the more he became interested and when he had finished the book, was convinced of its truth. He took the book to the family of John Young, father of Brigham Young, and they read it, it was also read by the Kimball family, and others, with the result that the family of John Young, Heber C. Kimball, John P. Greene, grandfather of Lulu Greene Richards, and others were eventually brought into the Church. So the mission of Samuel H. Smith performed in June, 1830, and which he felt was a complete failure, added to the Church some of the most prominent members that ever embraced the gospel. This identical copy of the Book of Mormon presented to John P. Greene is now in the possession of the writer of this article. The second edition of the Book of Mormon, was published by Parley P. Pratt and John Goodson, at Kirtland. This issue contains a preface by the publishers in which they state that they have "obtained leave to issue 5,000 copies of the same, from those holding the copyright." The third edition was published by Don Carlos Smith and Ebenezer Robinson in Nauvoo,-in 1840, from plates made by Shepherd and Stearns of Cincinnati, Ohio. Another edition was printed from these plates in Nauvoo, in 1842. In 1841 Brigham Young and the apostles who were then in England published the first European edition. In the first three American editions the testimonies of the witnesses were printed in the back of the book, but in the first European edition the testimonies were transferred to the front of the book as they have appeared in all editions since. This issue was to have been of 5,000 copies, but only 4,050 were delivered, the printing was done by J. Tompkins and Co., of Liverpool. The second European edition was published by 'Orson Pratt, in Liverpool, in 1849. Elder Franklin D. Richards published the third European edition, in 1852. In this edition Elder Richards numbered the verses in the chapters of the book. In 1879 Orson Pratt published an electrotyped edition of the Book of Mormon dividing the chapters and the verses and adding the footnote references as we have the book today. After these plates were made many editions appeared in Liverpool, which became for many years the publishing headquarters of the Church. The following list of the editions of the Book of Mormon is not complete, but is the best information available at this time, copies of these editions being in the files of the Historian's Office, Salt Lake City: INSTITUTE OF: 4602 Sour SAIT ba: REL} HH REDWOoap ON PUBLICATION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 427 1830............6: - >>> eeePalmyra, New York |).. OrKirtland, Ohio 0) SINauvoo, Illinois 1841... Ccc ce ee cee eee eeeLiverpool, England |Nauvoo, IIlinois | 1)Liverpool, England 1851 (Danish)...............-.2-005-Copenhagen, Denmark | OS)Liverpool, England 1852 (German).......... 0.00.00 eee e eeeHamburg, Germany 1852 (French)....... 0... Cece eee eee eeeParis, France 1852 (Italian)......... Cece ce eeeLondon, England 1852 (Welsh).............. Eee e eeeMethyr Tidfil, Wales 1854 Lee eee ee eeeLiverpool, England 1855 (Hawaiian)............... 0.02. EeeSan Francisco, Calif. 1858 (Danish)................000000eCopenhagen, Denmark LOC 5 RS reLiverpool, England 05)New York (This is the "Wright" edition published by non-members of the Church) 0 |.) SRR: Se aNew York (This is the Deseret Alphabet edition') lSalt Lake City 1873 (German)......... 02. Eee eee eeeBern, Switzerland MPN. Tee cette etc cee eensSalt Lake City Hi/i--...---..=., a. Salt Lake City 1878 (Swedish)...................00. Copenhagen, Denmark lc... |S |Liverpool, England (This is the first edition divided into chapters and verses with foot-note references which were prepared by Elder Orson Pratt) LO 3 ono orLiverpool, England 1881 (Danish).................. Re. Copenhagen, Denmark WPS 6 oo ot oe OeSalt Lake City cj 00 ee: ice SaSalt Lake City SS) ESSLiverpool, England 1885 2... Eee eee So Ae,. Salt Lake City 1886 (Spanish)... 0/00... 02... Ccc cee eee eeeSalt Lake City Loc: Salt Lake City lS)Liverpool, England WSU (ut) lRotterdam, Holland Wel TD 2 3Salt Lake City LOS ooLiverpool, England (This edition was on India paper and the combination was made of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price) - ME EE et eeeLiverpool, England Year 1889 (Maori).................0 00000! Place of Publication Auckland, New Zealand 
 1902 si Mie,.. -. SeKansas City, Missouri 1902 (Danish)........... Ce eee eee eeeCopenhagen, Denmark 1902 (German)...... 6.0 e cece ccc e eee eeeBerlin, Germany 1903 ooo cece cece eee eect eee eee eesSalt Lake City (OCG) QERRBRMMPIMIOO MSR 5035Liverpool, England 1903 (Samoan)...... 0. Cece cee cece eee eeeSalt Lake City ||") (7: PIII _. Salt Lake City 1904 (Tahitian)............ 0... Eee eee eeeSalt Lake City c,| 5S |. -Kansas City, Missour? WQOB 0... Eee ec cece eee ee ee ee eo Oe eeeChicago 1°, 0 hs'. Chicago, Illinois 1905 (Hawaiian)............ Cee ccc eee eeeSalt Lake City 1:0 Or SOS. On. -Salt Lake City 1906.............. Eee es he. Ae. OeChicago, Illinois kot SRI 500 0 eeLiverpool, England 1906 (Turkish)> 2.2.0... Cece cee eeeNew York, N. Y. 1907........ Ee eeesee eeeeeecceeseeeegee salt Lake City 1907 (Swedish)............. 0. Cee eee eeeStockholm, SwedenAGO co cee ee ee ee + oid e enenaitlle elas ees Sin aoeChicago 1559 ee.... Cee Ee eeeLiverpool, England 1909 (Duteh)) sear - seeRotterdam, Holland 1909 (Japanese)..... 2... Eee cece eee teensTokio, Japan OC) SernPIPPI 15. 5Chicago or, rrer. Liverpool, England 1914 (Maori)........ 0. Cece ce eee eeeSalt Lake City O10) a Snare1a ¢ ofl eueug = ae) ollHammond, Indiana (This is the first edition published with double columns and with added references and index, from plates made in Hammond, Ind.) | O77 i er ee ee io MIS 55Hammond, Indiana C2 Se. Ro. ORI «AoHammond, Indiana NORA me |g Be.. Ess dno d ee: weHammond, Indiana 1924 (German)......... OMI ocBasel, Switzerland |) 2/7 re 0) 3 /err -Hammond, Indiana V9Z6 2 ccc cc ce ces r tte e eee ecereHammond, Indiana In one year upwards of two hundred thousand copies were issued from the press of the missions at Independence, Missouri. These copies were distributed by the missionaries as many more thousands have been in the past few years. Thousands of copies were printed from the Hammond plates and are now being used by the missions of the Church as well as in all the stakes of Zion. Besides the list presented here there were several editions printed not included in this list among which are the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th editions from Independence and also pocket editions published by the Deseret Book Company in 1905, 1907, 1908, 1913, 1916, and one or two other editions without imprint of date. Because we do not know just when the editions printed in Independence and elsewhere were published, it has not been possible to place them = PUBLICATION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 429 ical order. However, ing fulfi in a most remarkable manner in ook of Mormon among the nati dreds and peoples of the earth to the convincing ot the Lam the Jew, and the Gentile, that Jesus is the Christ, the S living God.