Music in the Home of Hamlin Garland In the stirring sketch of pioneer life in "A Son of the Middle Border," by Hamlin Garland, we get a splendid idea of what music meant to the family and its closest neighbors so far removed from contact with the rest of the world. It was a great part of the entertainment of these early heroes and heroines. They often spent the evening sitting around the fireside singing their favorite songs. Quoting from the story we have Hamlin Garland's own description of these delightful occasions. "Our home was a place of song, notwithstanding the severe toil which was demanded of every hand, for often of an evening, especially in winter time, father took his seat beside the fire, invited us to his knees, and called on mother to sing. These moods were very sweet to us and we usually insisted upon his singing for us. True he hardly knew one tune from another, but he had a hearty resounding chant which delighted us, and one of the ballads which we especially liked to hear him repeat was called 'Down the Ohio'. * * * Mother, on the contrary, was gifted with a voice of great range and sweetness and from her we always demanded Nellie Wildwood, Lily Dale, Lorena or some of Root's stirring war songs. We loved her noble, musical tone, and yet we always enjoyed our father's tuneless roar. There was something dramatic and moving in each of his ballads. He made the words mean so much. It is a curious fact that nearly all the ballads which the McClintocks and other of these powerful young sons of the border loved to sing were sad, * * * and the memory of their mellow voices creates a golden dusk between me and that far-off cottage." Having caught the thrill of their favorite music, would it not be a fitting tribute to these worthy people to sing some of the songs which they loved so much? With this thought in mind the suggestion is made to have some of their songs sung on the day when the literary lesson on "A Son of the Middle Border" is given. If this suggestion finds a favorable response "Belle Mahone" and "Lorena" could be sung with great effect, thus bringing in a bit of the atmosphere of the Garland home. These were two of the songs Hamlin's mother sang. Many of the songs mentioned in the story are out of print, but these two songs can be obtained by writing to Wm. A. Pond & Co., 18 W., 37th St., New York, or to Daynes Beebe Music Co., 61-63 South Main St., Salt Lake City.