The proceedings of the conference will be continued in subsequent issues of the Magazine Children's Books By Lala Vernon Hales "No college English, no finishing school course in art and literature, will give men and women what they might have had if books had been as much their friends in childhood as the children next door." To select books for children it is absolutely necessary to have a clear conception of their interests and activities. The child will miss a natural companionship with books if we select the books that ought to be read instead of the books that will be read. Choose Books of Action The little child lives in the immediate present; he wishes to hear about things that belong to his environment?what he sees, hears, or handles. He likes best to hear his own experiences reproduced exactly as they have happened to him. The most representative contribution to the experience story is Here and Now Story Book (E. P. Dutton). A little later the child wants to hear stories about other children who do the things he likes to do. Here is the place for: stories of dogs, cats, rabbits, and other animals. He will appreciate immensely Helen Bannerman's The Story of Little Black Sambo (Stokes) because Sambo had just those experiences which he longs to have. He is not yet ready for fairy tales or any
CHILDREN'S BOOKS 663
thing remote, fantastic, or far away. After full experience with the actual he will enter more freely and joyously the world of the imagination. When Romance Begins Later, during the third and fourth years in school, the child reaches out for the vivid, the romantic, the thrilling. His interest in people calls for hero books. They may be fairly long, for the child has discovered the charm of the book "that lasts a long time." Do not give abridgments to children; they are unsatisfactory, confusing, and unliterary in approach. One recalls Anne Carroll Moore's statement against abridgments and adaptations?"A piece of literature is an organism and should therefore be put before the scholar, no matter how young, with its head on and standing on both its feet." Rather than give the child abridgments, Miss Moore would have him learn "judicious skipping," as by omitting the long descriptions in Scott and Cooper. They are now ready for Robinson Crusoe (Scott. Foresman and Company). With adolescence, love for adventure becomes closely related to the quest for realization of youth's ideals; and the literature chosen must voice dreams and visions. Now come the stories of King Arthur, the Odyssey, the Song of Roland. We may use some of the finer new things such as Cornelia Meigs' The New Moon (Macmillan) to excite curiosity and induce more reading. Thus the new literature may be used as a stepping stone to the classics. Avoid "Series" Books All early books for children should be told in strong motor terms and should be simple stories of actual child experience. This is the surest guide in selecting literature for the young child. As to the "series habit," which is too easy and encourages mental laziness and satisfaction with the obvious, we can do two things. Give the child many kinds of vivid experiences in daily life to develop his mental alertness and curiosity. This will enable him to reject the colorless, commonplace experiences of the "series books", and will surround him with desirable books with which the poorer ones cannot compete. Once alive to the delights afforded by good books that tell him things that he wants to know, a child is well on the way toward developing valuable reading habits, which will endure for a lifetime and which will fill with profit and pleasure the leisure time that is fraught with possibilities for good or ill. There is no child who does not care to read if the right books can be found. Children Like Poetry As the unwaning popularity of Mother Goose testifies, children like genuine poetry. In poetry children prefer direct, colorful rhythms, lively actions, and rollicking humor. Poetry be-
 
longs to children. They warmly welcome the fine poetry of Walter de la Mare. When parents and teachers have allowed them to, they have cared for the matchless songs of childhood in William Blake's Songs of Innocence (Minton, Balch & Co.). During the tenth and eleventh years children demand ballad poetry. Among the new things they are ready for John Neihardt's The Song of Hugh Glass (Macmillan). Children also appreciate much of our best lyric poetry, but they must be allowed the utmost freedom in following individual preferences. The poetry of Robert Louis Stevenson and Eugene Field should not be given indiscriminately to the young children. Many of their poems are appreciated later on. They Like Men and Nature Children are genuinely interested in biography if it conforms to their natural predilections. Biography exerts a powerful influence, next only to the influence of a personal friend, and should be given in plentiful amount. Helen Nicolay's The Boy's Life of Abraham Lincoln (Century) is good. Books of geography and travel also are fascinating to children. As to Nature stories?'no fairy tale, no story of adventure, possesses greater power to command the interest of the child than do true stories of insects, birds, plants, animals, stars, man, and the earth itself, provided they are well presented through skillfully selected material." The Burgess Flower Book for Children and the Burgess Animal Book for Children (Little, Brown & Co.) are delightful mediums of introduction to the flower and animal life about them. Get Illustrated Books The best illustrated books for children are good economy as a rule, "since it is the best literature which has attracted to its service the work of the best artists. One book of pleasing proportions, with good paper, attractive print, wide margins, artistic binding, and beautifully conceived and executed illustrations which fit a worth-while text, is worth a dozen cheap editions of the same text. Children need good and beautiful bindings. You can give books to children but you cannot make them like them. The book must do that. The picture books of Randolph Caldecott are very good, especially his The House That Jack Built, The Babes in the Wood, Sing a Song of Sixpence (Warne & Co.). The above material has been gleaned from A Handbook of Children's Literature written by Emelyn E. Gardner of the College of the City of Detroit and Eloise Ramsey of the Detroit Teachers College. It was published recently and is without doubt one of the finest of its kind. It is sane, conservative, exhaustive. To the wide-awake teacher or mother it is indispens-
CHILDREN'S BOOKS 665