	ALBERTA STAKE.

	A very interesting Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Cardston Assem-
bly Hall, Aug. 19, 1905. Sisters Sophia
T. Nuttall and Hattie B. Harker, mis-
sionaries of the General Board, were in
attendance. President Mary L. Woolf
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, reports were given by nine branch-
es, all in good coudition.
	Sister Nuttall felt the importance of 
the mission she was called to in visiting
us to understand our condition and
needs and report to the General Board:
spoke of the magnitude of the work be-
fore us. "The powers of evil are aiming
at our young people, and every effort

[Column 2]
should be put forth to save them. We
must live up to the light we have re-
ceived." Encourage young ladies in giv-
ing lectures on mother's work. Much
good can be done if we are in accord
with the spirit, and by perseverance we 
can overcome many difficulties. Our
blessings are innumerable. She felt that 
all is well with the sisters in this land.
Asked God to bless them.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said we have
heard much on our spiritual welfare; our
temporal duties are also very great. En-
couraged the teachers in this good work;
spoke on the necessity of always having 
funds in the treasury; explained the ob-
ject of the bureau of employment in Salt
Lake City; spoke of the advantages of
purchasing land while it is cheap, and en-
couraged the sisters to attend their meet-
ings. "May each one have a desire to 
learn her duty thoroughly and then do
it." Said we are willing to answer any
questions pertaining te Relief work.
	Morning session closed by singing and
benediction.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
Stake President E. J. Wood and Coun-
selor and other brethren also the visiting
sisters and officers of the Relief Society,
with representatives from all the wards
excepting three, those being farthest
away were present. After opening ex-
ercises, reports were given by two sisters
from the,north, showing that they were
working along the line of Relief Society
work.
	Sister Elizabeth Hammer reported her
recent visit to the Relief Society branch-
es in the northern settlements; said there
was great need of our visiting them as
often as possible, as they were inexperi-
enced in the work, but found them will-
ling and desirous to do all they could, and
with the help of the Lord would try and
keep in line with the rest.
	Sister Rhoda Duce recited the last
hymn very touchingly.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker felt gratified
to see so many present. Mothers should
see that their children attend the differ-
ent auxiliary organizations and take their
parts; referred to Nephi as an example of
faith; we cannot be saved in ignorance;
the glory of God is intelligence; spoke
of the bondage of indebtedness––if we go
beyond our means we cannot have the
joy and freedom that should characterize
every Latter-day Saint; compared the
trials of our worthy pioneers with the
prosperity of today.
	Sister Nuttall was glad to see the 
brethren present. "We should sustain
the priesthood, it is the power of God.
The sphere of motherhood is grand and
beautiful, it is not limited; obedience to
the Gospel brings knowledge and intelli-
gence, through the spirit of inspiration
and revelation. The sisters will have to
take more responsibility and attain to 
higher things. Some of the young are
falling into the ways of the world--they
want to avoid the duties of life and have
an easy time in this world; it is necessary
for them to be taught habits of frugality
and industry. We should assist those
who are in need. If we live up to the
principles of our religion, death will be
sweet to us. Every Latter-day Saint
will be tried to the greatest extent; this
should not depress us, but should cause
us to exercise greater faith." She felt
the Saints in this land would be a power


for good. We must work hard to gain
eternal life.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said the
remarks of the sisters had brought many
things to her mind. She had been per-
sonally acquainted with the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, and could testify he was a
prophet of God; she was also acquainted
with the members of the first Relief So-
ciety. "The magnitude of this work is
a testimony to me. We should encour-
age our girls to attend these meetings."
	Elder Thomas Duce said "the Relief
Society has a great and important part in
the Kingdom of God. We shall be judged
by our works." Was pleased to see rep-
resentatives from the northern settle-
ments, some of them have come one
hundred and thirty-five miles to attend
this conference-
	President Edward J. Wood spoke of
the great amount of good that can be
accomplished by mothers; hoped that
each one had heard something this day
that would apply to our needs, and
see to it that their sons and daughters
are preparing themselves to fill future
positions with honor. Our work does
not consist in doing good only to one's
own, but to all, as often as we can.
	Conference was adjourned for three 
months with singing and benedticion.
