they were considered gifts from the Most
High, and were welcomed and loved;
while in turn the children loved and re-
vered their parents. Today, when a girl
thinks of marriage, as a rule, the question

[Column 2]
of position is of far more importance than
that of love.
	Not only is this a fault of woman, man
also thinks of position in choosing a life
partner. He crushes love from his heart
for some rich papa’s money; while she
spurns many a loyal, loving heart for 
a “gilded cage.” As in the case of those
who marry for love, the result is plainly
seen, being most apparent in the chil-
dren. If there are no children, one need
only look at the “divorce mill” to behold
the result of loveless marriage.
	It has been noticed and commented
upon, that of late there are so many
children who seem to possess very little 
affection. One instinctively thinks of the 
words of the Apostle Paul, who said that
there should come a time when some 
would “be lovers of their ownselves, with-
out natural affection, and disobedient to 
parents,” etc. And one feels, though the 
Apostle denounced such so emphatically,
that they are to be pitied, for it is not 
wholly their fault.
	Can a child possess a loving disposition
when no thought of love entered the
mind of the man and woman who gave it
a body?
	Mayhap it was given existence unwit-
tingly, and consequently received a very 
cold reception upon its advent, having for
a father one who despises children, and
for a mother one who cares so little con-
cerning its welfare that she refuses to 
nourish it at her breast, lest she spoil her
figure.
	Need one again ask why children are
without natural affection; why the old-
fashioned epithets, “my dear father and
mother,” are so seldom heard, while the
unloving substitutes—“the old woman”
and “the governor” are so frequently
used.
	Women are beginning to feel, even
among our own people, that children are 
a burden which they are disinclined to
assume, or that it is not fashionable to
have them. Society women claim that
children make them nervous. One often
hears such expressions as the following:
“There are too many children in the
world already,” and “Children are such
little nuisances. One cannot fulfil the 
duty which one owes to society if one
has several cross babies at home who re-
quire attention,
	It is quite evident that such persons
forget that they also owe a duty to their
heavenly Father. Has God given a later
command regarding children than the
one which He gave to our first parents?
No. This commandment is as binding 
today as it was in times past. And if 
one loves the Lord with all his soul,
heart and mind, he will keep His com-
mandments. Still it is hard to say which
is the greater sin, to refuse to give spirits
tabernacles of flesh, or to bring children
here under the conditions that some chil-
dren are brought.
	Ah, mothers, mothers! see to it that 
your children are born willingly, and in
the full power of love.
	When you find that a little stranger is

[Column 3]
to enter your home prepare yourselves
in every way possible to influence your
child for good before its birth as well as
to train it in the way of the Lord after.
	First. Let there be no feelings of re-
sentment or misunderstanding between 
yourself and the one you call your hus-
band. Seek all things of an elevating
nature—music, literature and art.*
	Books of a soothing nature and those 
of a religious character, as well as bio-
graphies of the great and good people of
earth, should be read; but the sensa-
tional novel should be avoided as if it 
were a pest.
	When bowing in supplication, thank
God for conferring maternity upon you,
and ask Him to help you to live in a 
manner that shall be the means of giv-
ing to the spirit which he is about to 
consign to your keeping, not only a per-
fect body, but a perfect disposition.
	That a child’s disposition is greatly in-
fluenced by a woman’s personal thoughts
and feelings many mothers have proven.
It is, of course, much easier for a woman
who is richly endowed with this world’s
goods to prepare herself for motherhood,
as presented in this article, than for one
who is forced to do the work of the house
and care for the children. Take heart,
you who are over-burdened. Through
prayer all things can be accomplished. 
Remember—

“Its easy enough to be pleasant,
When life flows by like a song,
But the woman worth while is the one who will
	smile
When everything goes wrong.
For the test of the heart is trouble,
And it always comes with years,
The smile that is worth the praise of earth,
Is the smile that shines through tears.”

	After baby comes, do not be afraid to
show your love for the little creature.
Never mind if some people do say that it
is not right to kiss them. True, to kiss
a child upon the mouth is not wise;
but kiss its hands, its brow, and cheeks.
Not long since a baby, whose mother did 
not believe in kissing it, was kissed by 
one who does believe in so doing. It
became frightened upon being caressed,
and cried; but the party who caused the 
disturbance quieted it, then kissed it
many, many times, and finally its sweet
face dimpled with smiles.
	Another thing that parents do which 
does not inspire love in their children for 
themselves or God, is that they raise 
them with the idea of resisting evil on ac-
count of a fear of punishment. 
	It is true that parents are sometimes
compelled to resort to corporal punish-
ment, but were mothers and fathers to 
inspire their children with the idea of re-
sisting evil because by so doing they
would gain their love and also the love

	*Michael Angelo’s mother went every day, be-
fore he was born, to one of Italy’s great cathe-
drals, where hung many paintings by the masters.
	The pictures which impres[-]ed Michael An-
gelo’s mother most were—“The Annunciation,”
“Mary’s Visit to Elizabeth,” and “The Babe in 
the Manger.” Michael was most fond of and ex-
celled when painting religious subjects.


and approbation of their heavenly Fath-
er, they would be able to "spare the
rod;" and also inculcate a greater spirit
of love in the child's heart.
	Children should be taught to love God
from the time they know what like and
dislike mean, to love virtue for its own
sake and not because they fear either
their heavenly Father or their earthly
parents.
	Is it not better to keep God's com-
mandments because of love for Him than
to keep them because we fear Him?
	God is a God of love, not hate. His is
the spirit of meekness, gentleness, long-
suffering, faith and love.
	This, then, is the spirit that should be
inculcated in our children, or we shall
never come to the perfection that Christ
spoke of—"loving our neighbor as our-
selves." Also "loving our enemies and
praying for those who despitefully use
us."
	His, our Elder Brother's, life was an
example of the divine love of the Fath-
er, who so loved the world that He gave
His well-beloved Son to be a sacrifice for
sin, that we might obtain eternal life.
	Let us teach the youth of Zion, not
only to "fear God and keep his com-
mandments," but to love Him and keep
them; teaching them to look to the Most
High as their Father in very deed—one
to whom they can carry all their trouble
and He will love and help them; all sin,
and He will listen; and if they will truly
repent, will forgive and help them to trav-
el the "straight and narrow way."
	A father to be feared when insulted!
Yes. But rather to be loved. In raising
our children thus, we shall increase, not
destroy, that great power which should
fill every human heart for all humanity,
as well as for God, and one's own house-
hold; and thereby build up a universal
brotherhood between the sons and daugh-
ters of God.


