[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ALICE MAY TYLER TANNER.
	Departed this life June 29, 1905, in Milford,
Beaver county, Utah. She was the daughter of
 the worthy and venerable patriarch, Daniel Tyler
and his beloved wife Ruth W., who departed this
life eight years ago.
	In the early sixties her parents were called to
Washington Co., Utah; to assist in colonizing the
Dixie country. Although a child the hardships of
those early days were indelibly impressed upon
her mind. In 1866 they were released from that

[Column 2]
mission and then moved to Beaver. At the early
age of fourteen she entered the Beaver Co-op Store
as a clerk, which position she held several years
until compelled to leave on account of ill health.
Being sorely afflicted with St. Vitus dance, her
parents decided to take her to the House of the
Lord. Through the ordinances received therein
she was fully restored to health. On April 7,
1878 she was married to Joseph W. Tanner. In
1883 they moved to Circleville, Piute county, but in
1887 returned to Beaver as Sister Alice realized
that her parents were becoming aged and enfeeb-
led and needed care, she cheerfully took it upon
herself to perform that duty. Her fidelity and de-
votion to them has been unwavering and almost
without a parallel.
	About the year 1889 she was appointed secretary
of the Beaver Ward Relief Society, which position
she held until March 1897 at which time she was
chosen secretary of the stake. Her ability and
faithfulness as a secretary is seldom equalled,
which was a constant source of just pride and sat-
isfaction to the Ward and Stake Boards, who rec-
ognized and appreciated her worth and the credit
reflected upon them through her ability and
promptness in performing the duties pertaining
to that office. In July, 1901, she was chosen pres-
ident of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Beaver ward,
which position she filled with profit and satisfaction
to the association, and credit and distinction
 to herself, until 1903, when the association was di-
vided. Her labors in the Y. L. M. I. A. and in
the Sunday School as a teacher, and her extra
home duties (having an infant only a few months
old necessitated her release from the position of
Stake secretary of the Relief Society. In 1904 she
was again called to perform the duties of the same
office, which she faithfully did until her demise.
She has been the agent of the Woman’s Exponent
since 1897, having succeeded her mother who had
been the agent in Beaver for that valuable period-
ical eves since its publication. Since her mother's
death in April. 1897, she has faithfully, devotedly
and tenderly cared for her father, who is nearly
89 years of age. She is the mother of eleven chil-
dren, one son and ten daughters Five daughters
survive her. Several times during her life she has
approached very near the gates of death, but
through her implicit faith in the power of the
Priesthood of God and the ordinance of the Lord’s
House her life has been spared.
	On March 25, 1905, she gave birth to a daughter
which lived only three days, after which for a
number of weeks she was in a very critical condi-
tion. Through faith and prayer and good medi-
cal aid, she appeared to be in a fair way to re-
covery, until consumption set in. A change of
climate was advised by her physician, so a visit
to relatives in Idaho was decided upon.
	Being very desirous of receiving the ordinance
of baptism for her health in the House
of the Lord, it was planned that they stop
off in Salt Lake City a day or two. On June 27,
her kind, devoted husband, who has spared no
means, or considered any sacrifice too great to
make for her comfort or recovery took her to the
Salt Lake Temple and she there received the cov-
eted ordinance. The extra exertion required to
make the trip in her weakened condition, com-
pletely exhausted her, so much so, that they de-
cided to return home; so in the evening of the same
day, they took the train homeward, and reached
Milford on the morning of the 28th. Being too
weak to continue the journey farther, they re-
mained there, hoping she would soon gain suffic-
ient strength to reach home, but on the morning of
the 29th at 1 o’clock she passed peacefully away.
The funeral services were held on Sunday, July
2, at 2 o’clock p. m., in the L. D, S. meeting
house in Beaver. The speakers all eulogized her
beautiful life, offered consolation to the bereft, ap-
preciated her worth in the community and admon-
ished all to follow her worthy example.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call home one of His most faithful daughters and
earnest workers in the cause of truth, leaving us
to mourn the loss of a dear sister and a humble,
diligent co-laborer in the Beaver Stake Relief So-
ciety and Board, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Boards of
the Beaver Ward and Stake Relief Society, ex-
tend our sincere sympathy and mourn with the
bereft husband, children and aged father. We ap-
preciate her faithful labors as a Ward and Stake
secretary, also as president of the Y. L. M. I, A.,
and teacher in the Sunday School. That she was
a faithful wife, a patient, kind and indulgent
mother, and a devoted daughter. That she was a
living example of a true Latter-day Saint.
That her sterling qualities, her fidelity to the

[Column 3]
truth, and her willingness and faithfulness to duty
made her most lovely and admirable to all her
friends.
	That if we emulate her worthy example and
noble life. we will assuredly meet her again in that
beautiful home where sin and death cannot enter.
May He who has said He will be a husband to
the widow, and a father to the fatherless, pour into
the wounded souls of the bereft ones in this their
dark hour of separation. the oil of healing.
	That we send a copy of these resolutions to the
bereaved family, one to the Woman’s Exponent,
and one to be put upon the Stake records.
	C. C. Shepherd, Mary A. White, H. E, Fothing-
ham. Alice G. White, Frances L. Jones—R. S.
Stake Board.

