ALPINE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened at
2 o'clock, President Standring presiding,
Opening exercises as usual, singing, pray-
er, minutes, etc.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams: "We
have met as a body of Relief Society
workers. If it could be possible to call
young women to be teachers in connec-
tion with older ones, they could take the
burden of the work and be obtaining ex-
perience which would be very useful.
There is abundant work for us to do,
many sick and aged need looking after,
and perhaps one sister might look after
several such poor persons." Felt that the
sisters here were all true, conscientious
mothers and desired to encourage them.
Warned them not to speak lightly but
teach the children the proper reverence
for sacred places and sacred things.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought it
was a great privilege to see, and hear the
testimony of President B. W. Smith, for
she is the only one living who was at the
organization of this society.
	Solo, Sister Julia B. Grant.
	President B. W. Smith wanted the sis-
ters to know that this is the true Church.
The Prophet said one great thing was to
look after the morals of the people and
she believed in mothers taking care of
their girls and doing all they can to furth-
er the work of the Lord. Prayed the
Lord to bless Sister Standring and pre-
serve her many years to lead her sisters
and set an example of love and good
works.
	Sister Sina Chipman desired to profit
by the teachings we had today from our
beloved president. Emily Bullock bore
testimony to the goodness and worth of
Sister Smith and the good counsel she
used to give to the young people. M. A.
Webb knew that this was the true Church
of God, for it had been revealed to her.
	President Jos. H. Clark said one of the
speakers had urged the necessity of
keeping our girls at home, and he
thought the same caution should be used
in regard to our boys. If children go out
in the world to make more clothing or
more means and lose their souls what
will it profit them? He saw little boys
standing around at night smoking and
some profaning the name of the Lord.
The worst influences are around at night
waiting for our children. May the Lord
bless the sisters in their labors.
	President A. J. Evans said "the rebuke
of a friend is better than the kiss of an
enemy." The parents who call the fam-
ily together and pray for the servants of
God and the welfare of the Church, are
giving the children a testimony of this
work which is necessary for their guid-
ance. Referred to the law of fasting and
was afraid that many only kept part of
this commandment.
	President Standring made closing re-
marks; singing and benediction. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
