[Column 1]
		MARY A. LIVERMORE.
			(Concluded.)
	About this time she was invited to go
as governess to a family on a plantation
in Virginia; and she says, “I determined
to go and battle with myself alone and if
I could not conquer the doubts and fears
that overshadowed my life, I would like
the camel, struggle mutely with the
heaviest load, and, like the wolf die in
silence.”
	Her father disapproved of her going
and said, “Do you know that you are run-
ning away from home like a boy?” But
she went and stayed three years, there
were on the estate between four and five
hundred slaves, she came home to the
North a radical Abolitionist.
	The next three years she taught a
school of her own in Duxbury, Mass., it
was in reality the high school of the
town; meantime she was doing temper-
ance work in various ways, and besides
writing juvenile articles on the editorial
staff of a temperance paper, she organi-
zed a Cold Water Army of 1500 boys and
girls.
	While in Duxbury she strayed into
a Universalist Church and was at once
interested in the sermon, and was led
ultimately through this young minister’s
teachings to become a Universalist.

[Column 2]
	 When she went home for vacation she
told her old pastor and he said, “You will
be marrying this young minister one of
these days and bring down upon yourself
the ostracism of your friends.”
	In 1845 she married the very man, the
Rev. Daniel Parker Livermore, she says,
“I was surprised at the fury of the storm
that burst upon me, friends forsook me,
acquaintances ostracized me, I was dis-
approved for the church and my father
was for a time inconsolable. My mother
alone congratulated me on my marriage.
The tastes, habits and aims of the young
couple were similar and Mrs. Livermore
drifted into literary work. She wrote
hymns and songs and stories, sketches
and poems for The Galaxy, Ladies Re-
pository, New York Tribune and National
Era, and two prize stories, one for a
church publishing house which had a
large circulation was republished in Eng-
land and was translated into several lan-
guages, it elucidated a phase of religious
belief and was entitled “A Mental Trans-
formation.”
	It is impossible to tell in one short
sketch  of this great woman’s life the
work she has done along many lines,
temperance, anti-slavery, woman’s rights
and in benevolent and philanthopic
movements.
	In 1857, the Livermores joined a colony
going out to Kansas, where they had a
taste of frontier life, but finally decided
to settle in Chicago, Mr. Livermore be-
came editor and proprietor of a weekly
paper and Mrs. Livermore was associate
editor. For the next twelve years her
labors were Herculean. She wrote for
every department of the paper, and in her
husband’s absence from home she had the
entire establishment, paper, printing office
and publishing house; continued writing
for Eastern periodicals and for the Home
for the Friendless and assisted in the es-
tablishment of a Home for aged women
and a Hospital for women and children
and was actively identified with the city
charity. She was at this time her own
housekeeper directing servants, supervis-
ing the education and training of her
children and exercising a large hospitality.
	In 1860 at the first nomination of Abra-
ham Lincoln in the Chicago Wigwam,
she was the only woman reporter assign-
ed a place among more than a hundred
men reporters.
	“The great uprising among men at the
opening of the civil war, in 1861, was
paralleled by a similar uprising among
women, and in a few months there were
hundreds of women’s organizations form-
ed throughout the North, for the relief of
sick and wounded soldiers and the care
of the soldiers’ families. Mrs. Livermore
became the head and heart of a large
part of this work.
	“Out of the chaos of benevolent efforts
evolved by the times, the United States
Sanitary Commission was born. Mrs.
Livermore, with her friend, Mrs. Jane C.
Hoge, had been identified with relief
work for the soldiers from the beginning,
and at the instance of Rev. Dr. Henry
W. Bellows, President of the Commission,
they were elected associate members of
the United States Sanitary Commission
with their headquarters in Chicago, and
the two friends worked together till the
end of the war. Mrs. Livermore resigned
all positions save that on her husband’s
paper, secured a governess for her chil-

[Column 3]
dren, and subordinated all demands upon
her time to those of the Commission.
She organized Soldiers’ Aid Societies;
delivered public addresses to stimulate
supplies and donations of money in the
principal towns and cities of the North-
west; wrote letters by hundreds, person-
ally and by amanuenses, and answered
all that she received; wrote the circulars,
bulletins and monthly reports of the
Commission; made trips to the front with
sanitary stores, and gave her personal at-
tention to their distribution; brought back
large numbers of invalid soldiers, and ac-
companied them, in person, or by proxy,
to their homes; assisted to plan, originate
and conduct colossal Sanitary Fairs, and
wrote a history of them at their close; de-
tailed women nurses for the hospitals, by
order of Secretary Stanton, and accomp-
anied them to their posts. The story of
women’s work during the war has never
been told, and can never be understood
save by those connected with it. It is
hard for the younger generation to realize
the vast amount that Mrs. Livermore ac-
complished by her immense abilities and
indomitable power to work. The old sol-
diers adored her, and she was flooded
with testimonials and souvenirs from
them, which she valued highly. She
published her reminiscences of those cru-
cial days in a large volume, of thrilling
and graphic interest, entitled, “My Story
of the War” (Hartford, Conn., 1888),
which reached a sale of between fifty
thousand and sixty thousand copies.”

