[Column 1]
to be canker but continued to grow and troubled 
her for years, the doctors pronounced it cancer in-
curable, but by the knife.  She and her parents 
had great faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Myra fasted four days, her parents three, and the 
family and many of her neighbors one day, and
she went to the Logan Temple and was baptized 
seven times and was administered to and promised
health, and although that morning her tongue
was black and swollen so bad she could scarcely
be understood, she was instantly healed and was 
troubled no more. This was a great testimony to 
her and the family and they will never forget it,
and they have borne testimony many times that 
the gifts and blessings still remain in the Church.
					AMELIA KIRBY.
	(By request of the parents.)
		IN MENORIAM.
	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
to record the death of a beloved sister, who de-
parted this life August 9, 1905, at her home in Far
West. Sister Eliza C. Larkins the beloved wife of
Wm. J, Larkins, she was born at War Hill, Surry
Co. N. C. June 26, 1837 and on June the 10, 1869, 
she was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and in July emigrated to 
Utah, coming direct to Weber Co., where she has
since been a faithful worker in the church, she
leaves a devoted husband and three children to 
mourn her loss, the loss of a loving mother and 
wife. In April 28, 1881, she was chosen and set 
apart to act as second counselor to president Mary 
Heggsted when our society was first organized in 
Farr West.  Where she labored faithful until 
November 3, 1892, when our President moved
away and our society had to be reorganized, she
felt she was not able to labor longer in that posi-
tion, she has always been a faithful worker and 
member in the society, and has borne numerous
testimonies to the work of God; she was a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and loved by all who knew her.
	We the officers and me[-]bers of the society feel
we have lost a dear friend and co-laborer, where-
as we sympathize with the bereaved husband and
children, and cherish her memory and strive to em-
ulate her noble character.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in
the Relief Society records, a copy be sent to the 
bereaved husband, and one printed in the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
				MILLIE J. SUMMERS, Sec,
	R. S. REPORTS. 
		CASSIA STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley 10 a.m.
June 23, 1905, President Louisa Haight
presiding. Present were her counselors, 
Lavina Bates and Maud A. Thomas also
presidents of the Society of the various
Wards. Of the Stake Presidency, presi-
dent Wm. T. Jack and counselor Wm. 
T. Harper also visiting sisters from Salt
Lake City Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
bury and Phebe Y. Beatie of the Gen-
eral Board.
	Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises. Verbal reports were given by pres-
idents Ida I. Brim of Albion, Fannie L.
Harper, Oakley 1st Ward, Jane Critch-
field, Oakley 3rd Ward, Jane Durfee, Al-
mo, Charlotte Nelson, Oakley 2nd Ward
Harriet Whitby, Marion, counselor Abi-
gail Beecher of Elba.  Reports showed 
there were many members working dili-
gently in visiting the sick, and assisting
the poor and needy, and in erecting build-
ings where the members can meet con-
veniently and comfortably. The Grouse
Creek Society was reported by letter.
	Sister Clarinda Beecher, a stake mis-
sionary, gave a good report of the 
branches on the east side of the moun-
tain. President Louisa Haight spoke of
the calls made of the sisters to help the
poor and needy and in various ways assist
in building up this great and grand work
that we are engaged in. Sister Phebe
Y. Beatie reported the minutes of the or-
ganization of the first Relief Society and 

[Column 2]
the instructions given by the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith to the sisters. "Let us be
charitable and be careful to do our duty
with our whole heart and soul. President
Wm. T. Jack felt that he could not com-
plain in regard to the condition of the
Stake Relief Society. Encouraged the 
sisters in their great labor; meeting closed 
with singing and prayer. 
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened by singing
and prayer. Counselor Ida Smoot Dus-
enbury spoke of the purification of trials. 
"We must have trials in life to appreci-
ate the blessings. Some people wish to
do great things in life and keep waiting
to do some heroic deed, but you know it
is the little acts of kindness that cause
one to become great. If you want any
one to love you, have them work for you.
If you want your children to love you
have them work. If children have to 
labor and battle with difficulties, they are
the ones that have "stick-to-it-ivness" 
and make great  marks in life. We should 
take great care with regard to our talk 
and the treatment of our children. We 
should not take any more liberties with
them than we let them take with us. If
we only knew how to evenly develope
the traits of our children what a great
blessing it would be. What is greater in
this world  than a pure, noble, God-fear-
ing wife and mother.  By our hard toil, 
labor and diligence we will assist others. 
And the road we are now traveling will
be made easier for those who may follow."
Spoke of the great influence of the
mother in the home. "The greatest
gifts we have we carry around in our
heart and minds."
	Counselor Maude A Thomas spoke of
the familiarity that is growing among our
boys and girls, and said let us as mothers
teach the young of the great evils that 
will follow this course. Counselor Lav-
ina Bates addressed the meeting and ex-
pressed her pleasure in having our sisters
visit with us.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie advised moth-
ers to keep their daughters at home, and 
not send them to Salt Lake City to work
on account of the many evils that exist. 
Our young girls are honest and innocent, 
and are the more likely to be led astray
by the flattery and deceitfulness of evil
men, Spoke of the Nurse class.
	President Louisa Haight thanked the
sisters for their visit and felt pleased for
the privilege of having them. The Gen-
eral and Stake officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Singing, 
benediction by Elder John Elison.
			LOTTIE BACH, Ass't. Sec.


