[Column 1]
THE THEORY OF ORGANIZATION.
	The spirit of organization has been
hovering around the earth ever since the
days of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
the restoration of the Gospel. One only
has to go to the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and read the revelation there
given at a very early date in Kirtland,
April 23, 1834 concerning the order to be
observed in temporal matters, as well as
spiritual, and strange to say these theories
concerning union and so forth have been
fermenting in the minds of people, and
peoples more and more; unions here and
unions there failures too in one way or
another generally, and nationalism and
internationalism taught and talked about,
federations of this and federations of that
and co-operation on large and small
scales in many countries. Then the
efforts made for peace and arbitration all
tend in the same direction towards uni-
versal feeling and brotherhood, and unit-
ing of interests, but how far off the world
is from the culmination of these spasmodic

[Column 2]
efforts one who looks below the surface
of things can easily see.
	Even among our own people the Lat-
ter-day Saints who believe implicitly in
co-operation and the United Order as
given by revelation in the early days of
the Church, are far removed from the
actual practice except in a very small
way, and yet in theory they have the
very best ideas in the world.
	A number of books have been written
on these subjects and scores of magazine
articles, but the one book that seemed
most widely read at the time of its publi-
cation and caused the greatest awaken-
ing on the subject was Edward Bellamy’s.
“Looking Backward.” It set forth a sort
of impracticable “fad,” that people talked
of for some years, and which we never
hear spoken of now; but the revelations
of Joseph Smith the Prophet of the last
days, are perfect in theory, though even
the people of the Church who should be
most interested in trying to live up to the
higher law, or to approach a condition
tending towards it console themselves by
saying, “People are not good enough
yet,” and that is undoubtedly true, but
that is not an excuse that should hinder
those who believe in the great power of
love to all mankind from making a su-
preme effort towards living up to the
Savior’s injunction, “Love your neighbor
as yourself,” or from practising the Gold-
en rule “To do to others as you would
they should do unto you.”
	These are given us for all time and
times, and are every day mottoes for our
life conduct.
	A book recently written and published
on the matter of union, etc., is by Ray-
mond L. Bridgeman and entitled “World
Organization,” the ideas are said by re-
viewers to be as old as the New Tes-
tament. The book generalizes on the
idea of the unification of the nations of
the world in one legislative, judicial and
executive body. The author maintains
that “the formal endorsement of the
principle of world legislation has been
practically recognized by the organization
of the International Postal Union, the
establishment of a common prime merid-
ian, sanitary conferences, the Red Cross
Society and various other world-wide leg-
islation.” Mr. Bridgeman points out “the
urgent demand and possibility of world
legislature” and “lays down some broad
principles which will be essentially de-
clared in the world constitution and bill
of rights.”
	That, “the world moves” along many
lines of activity and of thought is very ap-
parent to those who are watching the
signs of the times. And in this connection
one vividly recalls the prophetic words of
Tennyson.
“Till the war drums throb’d no longer and the
	battle-flags are furled.
In the parliament of man, the federation of the
	world.”


