MEMORIAL MEETING.
BEAVER RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The two branches of the Relief Society
of Beaver City met conjointly Monday
afternoon, May 28th, in honor of the
memory of Sister M. Isabella Horne,
who died in Salt Lake City on the 25th
inst.
	There were present Sister P. T. Farns-
worth, from Salt Lake, and Sister Ida
Hunt Udall, of St. John’s, Arizona.
	Sister M. L. Shepherd, president of the
Beaver Stake, opened the meeting with a
few remarks befitting the occasion.
	Sister Farnsworth was the principal
speaker, and after speaking at some
length on the beautiful life and sterling
worth of our departed sister, referred to
the special mission to which she had been
called by President Brigham Young,
viz., the awakening of the sisters to a
fuller sense of their duties, both as wives
and mothers. She made special mention
of the desire of President B. W. Smith to
have the Relief Society everywhere, dili-
gent in storing grain and several minor
details in connection with Relief Society
work.
	Sister Udall occupied a short time.
She explained that in Arizona where she
resides, the people are very scattered and
the sisters are not able to meet often and
consequently they could not accomplish
as much as in the more thickly settled
parts.
	Sister Maeser read the biography of
Sister Horne, Mrs. P. Farnsworth report-
ed the Frisco branch of the Relief Society.
She said they had only held two meet-
ings since the society was organized there
and that the sisters had not accomplished
much as yet.
	Among the other speakers were: Sis-
ter Johnson of Adamsville; Sister Good-
win, president of the west ward, and Sis-
ter Bickley, president of the east ward;
Relief Soeiety, Stake Counselor M. A.
White; Harriet Fotheringham, a niece of
Sister M. I. Horne; Sister Levi, Sister
Annie Frazer, Sister Robinson, Sister
Reese of Beaver, and Sister Pierce of
Adamsville.
	All the sisters spoke with much feeling.
Many of them were acquainted with Sis-
ter Horne, and their remarks were rem-
iniscent of her well-spent life.
	Our meeting will long be remembered
by all who were present.
	The congregation sang, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet."
	Benediction by Sister Frances Jones.
