[Column 1]
		GOOD WORDS.
	BY CLARA B. COLBY.
	M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	“Truth will prevail,” wrote Zina D. H.
Young; “Charity covers a multitude of
sins,” wrote Presendia L. H. Kimball; and
“Love thy neighbor,” wrote M. Isabella
Horne, in an autograph book which is a
much prized souvenir of a lecture trip
and a reception in Salt Lake. It was in
the autumn of 1888 and Mrs. Elizabeth
Lyle Saxon lecturing on “Social Purity”
and the editor of the Woman’s Tribune
telling the wonderful story of that first
great coming together of women of differ-
ent organizations and countries, had been
warmly received by the women of Utah
and one of the courtesies shown us was a
reception in the Amelia Palace: One of
the ladies present took an autograph al-
bum and secured the signatures of the
distinguished women present, wives and
daughters of the presidents and apostles
of the church and many of them holding
office in the church societies and scarcely
second in public esteem and in authority
to the male hierarchy. Most of the pio-
neers have now moved on, and Mrs.
Horne, who died recently in her 87th
year, was the last survivor of the three I
have quoted. She had joined the Mor-
mon church in 1836, endured the persecu-

[Column 2]
tions in Nauvoo; and had crossed the
plains in 1847, sharing the hardships of
Apostle Taylor’s party. By appointment
of Brigham Young she was president of
the Retrenchment Association, and had
held offices in the church societies since
1853. She had also been connected with
the Utah Silk Association, and with the
management of Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Horne was strikingly handsome, with
bright dark eyes and kindly face, which
of itself bore testimony that in every re-
lation and duty of life she had obeyed
the Divine injunction which she took for
her motto. 
		EDITOR WOMAN’S TRIBUNE.
SHOULD WE NOT HAVE A WOMAN’S DAY?
	The state in which I reside has eight
holidays on which the postmaster and
other public officials have the right to
keep their doors closed. Some of them
are general for the whole United States;
Some are especial for our state only.
Why is it that not one of these is a mem-
orial of any woman? Several are the
birthdays of distinguished men.
	Now I wish for information. Has no
one of our forty-five states and five terri-
tories ever established a day in honor of
one of its great women or of some one
of the great women of the world?
	If this be the case, what do you think
of establishing a day for the whole United
States to be known as “Woman’s Day,”
on which schools, associations, and such
societies as may wish, shall celebrate
womanhood in general, or any great or
good woman they may decide to honor?
Is it not as appropriate to have a
“Woman’s Day” as a “Labor Day?”
	If this suggestion meets with approval I
should suggest for this purpose the 25th of
March, Annunciation Day. In England it
is called “Lady Day,” and is an import-
ant epoch, rents being always paid on
that day. Surely no day could be better
suited to this purpose than that on which
the curse of Eve became the blessing of
Mary and countless generations.
	Mary’s song has always seemed to be
the voice of all womankind rejoicing in
the removal of its ban, “Thenceforth all
generations have called us blessed.”
				JULIA S. TUTWILER.
	Woman’s Journal.


