WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of the Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
30th, 1905. Present of the General Board
Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Susan
Grant with stake President S. Tyson and
counselor Hannah Telford and secretary
Katie Eppich.
	After the opening exercises stake Pres-
ident Tyson made some remarks. Re-
ports were called from different wards;
thirteen were given, all were in good run-
ning order. 
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson spoke of
family prayers in the home and the great
privileges and blessings we enjoy by liv-
ing up to our duties; in training our chil-
dren and being ministering angels to the
cast down and those who are in trouble.
Urged the Presidents and their helps to
love one another and be united in their
efforts. Spoke of the evil of fault finding.
	Sister Susan Grant’s remarks were very
encouraging and elevating. She exhort-
ed the sisters to seek the Lord in prosp-
erity as well as adversity and live near
unto him. Delivered a message of love
from our aged President, Bathsheba. W.
Smith and General Secretary E. B. Wells,
encouraged the Mother’s work and re-
ferred to the good derived therefrom and
of the good we do our offspring in study-
ing the same.
	Stake Counselor Hannah Telford spoke
of her experience in attending the duties
assigned her. Brother George here made
some grand remarks of comfort and en-
couragement to the sisters.
	President Tyson felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us; spoke of early
days and her experience; urged the sisters
to be patient. Closed by singing and
benediction. 
	Afternoon session, President S. Tyson
presiding. After the usual exercises Sis-
ter Susan Grant of the General Board
spoke to the young sisters and encouraged
them to join the Relief Society and learn
all they could in regard to becoming good
wives and mothers; said there was every-
thing to inspire us on to good works and
living our religion, spoke at length on the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings re-
ceived in living up to it, and of culti-
vating the gift of faith. Felt thankful
for her experience in the Church.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson urged upon the
mothers to attend Relief Society and get
intelligence and to care for the needy;
keep ourselves pure that the spirit of the
Lord might dwell among us, and spoke
of the condition of those who do not keep
the commandments of the Lord and of
the blessings we should receive in living
up to our privileges; of the power of faith
in the Lord; urged the parents to have
their children attend the local organiza-
tions and encouraged the Mothers’ work.
Bishop S. Brough endorsed the remarks
of previous speakers, encouraged parents
to win the confidence of their sons and
daughters; alluded to the grand mission
of motherhood. Sister E. J. Stevenson
said as she was a temple worker, she felt
her mission would not be complete with-
out speaking a word for the dead. Urged
the sisters to do the work for their dead
as fast as they could.
	President S. Tyson made a few clos-
ing remarks and felt that we had had a
grand time. Conference adjourned after
singing and benediction.
			KATIE EPPICH, Secretary.


