EXPRESSIONS MADE ON THE SIDE.
	"It isn't the big things, its the pin
pricks that hurt," a neighbor said to me
one day referring to a small slight she
fancied she had received, and there's 
some philosophy in the small quotation
after all. If people would only try to
guard against offering the little hateful re-
marks that are not exactly meant to
hurt but wound the feelings nevertheless,
surely all would be better.
Some people pride themselves on being 
extremely frank and telling just what they
think, and they call this frankness a vir-
tue, but frequently these plain spoken
people wound the feelings of their friends
most unnecessarily. Is it always wise to
speak one's thoughts, even if they are the
truth. If you meet a friend in an unbe-
coming gown or hat, is it a kindness to
tell her of it? If she has a careworn,
troubled look, does it help her to say,
"My, how bad you look today!" Does
 it profit any one to pick out the faults and
failings of his neighbor and tell him of 
them? Far better pass them by unnoticed
unless in some kind way good may be ac-
complished, by quietly speaking of them.
Frankness, like other qualities, may be
misused.
	"I always was against the Relief Soci-
ety, but now they are going to do some-
thing in mother's work, I think there may
be some good in it."
	Fancy the feelings of a a regular Re-
lief Society worker who knew all the his-
tory of that great organization, when at an 
evening party she heard a young woman,
born and raised in Utah, make that re-
mark! She would have been too angry to
remain in the room only she felt, that
such a remark was made by one wholly
ignorant of what she was trying to talk
about, and out of respect for her hostess
did not even resent it, but she wondered
if there were many young women in our 
midst who felt like that, and she herself
thought of that noble band of women
working always for the betterment and re-
lief of others without thought of self. She
thought of the women sitting up night
after night with the sick; of the women
going into the homes where death had
come and performing the last necessary
labor before the burial; of the women taking
baskets laden with good and necessary
things into the homes where want had
come; oh, if such thoughtless speakers 
would only pause and think of the great


and good labors of the Relief Society
workers they would see that true moth-
ers' work had always been uppermost in
their thoughts, and their deeds of kind-
ness and of love were as numerous and 
uncountable as the sands on the seashore. 
						A. W. C.


