[Column 1]
panied on that journey by Sidney Rigdon
and Thomas B. Marsh, and she was so
overjoyed at that time that she said to
herself, “O Lord, I thank thee for grant-
ing the desire of my girlish heart in per-
mitting me to associate with prophets and
apostles.” This religious expression
shows her devotional nature even in her
young life.
	The Prophet was also a guest in Broth-
er and Sister Horne’s home in Quincy,
Illinois in 1839, where they had remained
temporarily after being driven from their
home in Missouri, whither they went
from Canada in March, 1838; subse-
quently they settled in Nauvoo, where
they became quite prosperous; but like
many other Latter-day Saints they were
not privileged to remain there long; they
left in the dead of winter in February,
1846, with a family of small children, en-
during all sorts of hardships upon that
long and tedious journey to the Missouri
river, where the Saints camped for the
winter, and where in consequence of
hardships, privation and actual want,
many suffered and died. Brother Horne’s
family were sorely afflicted, but the Lord
in His tender mercy spared their lives,
and they were able to come in the first
company of Saints that left Winters
Quarters after the pioneers, traveling
with Apostle John Taylor’s company and
arriving in the valley among the foremost
of that famous company of pioneers, who
built the “Old Fort,” and plowed and
planted, etc., and who subsequently
fought the crickets, and whose names
have been recorded as heroes and hero-
ines to endure for all time.
	The subject of this sketch was born in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818,
her parents were Stephen and Mary Ann
Hales, in her childhood her father and
mother came to Canada and settled in
the town of York, now Toronto; so it
will be seen she commenced traveling
when only thirteen; it was there in Cana-
da she met Joseph Horne, to whom she
was married May 9, 1836; this union
proved a lasting one, and together they
have encountered the storms and battles
of a long and eventful life. On May 9,
1886, they celebrated their golden wed-
ding, and ten years after. May 9, 1896,
they also celebrated the sixtieth anniver-
sary of their marriage. Sister Horne has
been the mother of fifteen children, and
what is rather remarkable three pairs of
twins were among the number. Seven of
her children are living, eight having passed
to the other side, three of them were
married at the time of their decease, of
the others, her first children, were twins,
one died a babe, the other lived to be
three years old. Elizabeth, the wife of
Edward Webb the eldest daughter, left
four children. Julia, wife of Wm. Burton,
another daughter died after giving birth
to a little girl that lived eleven months;
and her youngest son John, who married
Sophronia Spencer, left a family of little
ones, three in number. Sister Horne had
at the time of her decease 102 grandchil-
dren, 70 great-grandchildren and 2 great-
great-grandchildren. Her good name will
be perpetuated to the latest generation,
for her noble works, her kindly deeds, her
brilliant example of heroism and upright-
ness, and devotion to the truth as re-
vealed in this last dispensation.
	As a mother and homemaker Sister
Horne has always stood in the front rank,

[Column 2]
her example in this regard has been
quoted throughout the Church, and it was
undoubtedly her well-known ability in the
management of her own household, that
caused President Brigham Young to call
her to stand at the head of the Retrench-
ment Associations when they were first
organized in 1869. She had previously
manifested also good executive ability in
taking charge of the Relief Society in the
14th ward, where she resided, and of
which she was President until called to
preside over the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake. She possessed not only
practical ability and excellent judgement,
but was also eminently spiritual, which
rare combination of gifts fitted her for a
leader among her sex. She manifested
great wisdom in dealing with affairs that
required unusual ability. Her integrity
to the truth was unquestioned, she was
one to lean upon at all times and in all
places, her great strength of mind and
force of character gave her influence
wherever she was called to act, and
added prestige to whatever position she
occupied, whether in the home or in any
public place or enterprise.
	The positions she filled were many and
varied, for whatever work was undertaken
by the women of Zion, Sister Horne was
always prominent and efficient. It can
truthfully be said of her, she was one of
the founders of the commonwealth one of
the first to secure a permanent home,
that was always open to hospitality, a
gathering place for the young people and
for the brethren and sisters, friends,
neighbors and acquaintances of Brother
and Sister Horne; and they were numer-
ous and included the best men and wom-
en in Zion. Brother Horne was a
staunch Latter-day Saint and a stalwart
among men. It can truly be said of them,
“Her husband was known in the gates
when he sat among the Elders of the
Lord.”
	Many seasons of festivity and genuine
pleasure will be recalled now by those
who participated in the enjoyment of
these social entertainments, at the Horne
home in the 14th ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Horne’s great knowledge of the
Bible and the Book of Mormon, as well
as other standard Church works, and her
own experiences in life, from the early
days of the Church, mingling with the
best of noble men and women, made her
exceedingly entertaining and instructive
in conversation, and caused her to be
sought after by old and young, who were
desirous of true knowledge and reliable
information.
	Sister Horne was a member of the
first Relief Society organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph Smith (although
she was not present at the first meeting)
but became a member soon after. As
soon as the sisters could do so after
coming to the valley, Relief Society or-
ganizations were effected, and from that
period up to the time of her last illness,
Sister Horne has labored incessantly in
the Relief Society, not only as an officer
but a diligent, faithful worker. Sister
Horne was for several years a member
of the “People’s Party,” and was ever
and always an ardent advocate of wo-
man’s rights and of equal suffrage for men
and women. She was truly patriotic in
all that pertained to her country, and
in building up the territory; she had en-
dured the privations and hardships inci-

[Column 3]
dent to the settlement of these valleys,
and felt intensely the need of a place
where liberty and freedom of conscience
could be exercised under just and equit-
able laws; and she was always ready to
stand firm and steadfast to maintain the
sacred principles vouchsafed in the Con-
stitution of our glorious country; and
she rejoiced when Utah became a free
and sovereign state, electing its governor
from among its own citizens, and in
having equal suffrage restored to the wo-
men of Utah in the state constitution.
	Sister Horne was for many years vice-
president of the Deseret Silk Association
for Utah, and one of the charter mem-
bers of the Deseret Hospital for more
than twelve years, from the beginning to
the close of the institution was chairman
of the executive committee; her labors in
that institution were laborious, and re-
quired considerable precious time, but
her economy and wisdom were a great
help in the Hospital.
	Sister Horne was chosen to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
stake December 22, 1877, and held that
position until the stake was divided in 
1904. At the organization of the General
Relief Society she was chosen treasurer,
and when the society was incorporated in
1892, was one of the charter members. She
served as treasurer of the society twenty-
one years.
	I think we can say, no woman in the
Church was more highly esteemed and
reverenced for good works and leadership
than Sister Horne, whose loss the sisters
feel most keenly. She presided over the
semi-monthly meetings in the Fourteenth
ward and Assembly Hall something like
35 years. The dear old sisters almost
worshiped her; they had grown so fond
of her, and she seemed a mother to them
all. Her wise counsel and her majestic
bearing made an indelible impression up-
on people, and she put her true woman’s
soul into all she said--and her sayings
will live after her and be repeated to the
Saints throughout all time.
	Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne passed
peacefully away from this life on Friday,
at 7 p.m., August 25, 1905, at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, surrounded by a large number of
her own family and intimate friends.
	Sister Horne had been confined to her
bed eleven weeks previous to her demise,
and had at times suffered very great pain,
but at intervals was comparatively easy
and comfortable, and glad to see the sis-
ters who called; she had been ailing two
years, and her passing away was indeed
a happy release for her; but to those who
who loved her so tenderly there is the
great sorrow of being bereft of her com-
panionship, her wise counsel and the
faith that was like an anchor to all who
had been accustomed to lean upon her.
Many are the friends who will cherish
her memory, who will miss her day by
day, and long to see her beautiful face in
the places they had so often met in sweet
communion.
	“Day after day we think what she is doing
		In that bright world of air;
	Year after year, her tender steps pursuing.
		Behold her grown more fair.”
	As Sister Horne lay in her white cas-
ket in her beautiful robes, she looked fair
and angelic, and the expression was one
of complete repose, as though she would
say if she could speak, “I shall be satis-


fied when I awake in His likeness and
behold His face.”
	Sister Horne’s funeral was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Tuesday,
August 29, at 2 p.m. The hall had been
draped in white, with green vines inter-
twined, and flowers and palms ornament-
ed the stands. The flowers sent as me-
mentoes of love were beautiful and in
great variety. The Relief Society, the
General Board, the old Salt Lake Stake
Board, of which she was for many years
president, and the adjacent stakes, each
sent handsome floral designs, and the
family the most exquisite that could be
obtained in dainty blossoms, and there
were many from friends and relatives be-
sides.
	The First Presidency were all present
and each said a few words, President Jo-
seph F. Smith making the principal ad-
dress. Other speakers were Presidents
Frank Y. Taylor of Granite Stake and
Joseph E. Taylor of the old Salt Lake
Stake, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells. The
music was furnished by the Temple choir
and Elder Geo. D. Pyper sang a solo, “The
Resurrection Day.” The opening hymn
was “Who are these arrayed in white?”
etc, “Shall we meet beyond the river?”
and the last, “Farewell all earthly hon-
ors.”
	The General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety and the members of President
Horne’s Board of the Salt Lake Stake
occupied seats upon the stand. The ser-
vices were very impressive and consoling,
the remarks were all in praise of the
many virtues and noble deeds of the de-
parted mother in Israel, who for so many
years had labored for Zion. Many touch-
ing reminisceces were given of her devo-
tion and self-sacrifices; and her grand and
sublime character was faithfully portrayed
in words of sympathy and appreciation.
	Apostle Hyrum Smith pronounced the
benediction. The pallbearers were her
grandsons Malin Horne, Joseph L. Horne,
Wilford Horne, LeRoy Clayton, Joseph
Tingey. Jr., and Henry James, Jr.
	A very long train of carriages filled
with mourners and dear friends fol-
lowed the remains of Sister Horne to her
last resting place beside her husband in
the Salt Lake cemetery, and President
Joseph F. Smith dedicated the grave. A
quartette sang “Nearer My God to Thee.”
A woman pioneer, brave and renowne’d,
	She ever bore an honored name;
With motherhood and many virtues crown’d
	To give her everlasting fame.
Mother in Israel, fearless for the right,
	A very stalwart in her place;
Endow’d with wisdom and with Gospel light,
	Intelligence shone in her face.
Her weary steps have reach’d the heav’nly shore,
	Where welcomes glad her soul rejoice
With her companions who have gone before
	She’ll sing again with heart and voice,


