EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held
the regular meeting Tuesday, May 16 in
the EXPONENT Office, Templeton Build-
ing: in the absence of the Regent and
Vice Regents, Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears
by special request presided. After the
transaction of some business, an excellent
paper on Gen. Ethan Allen was given


by Mrs. Diana F. Rich, after comments
by the members and some regrets ex-
pressed that the paper on Gen. Mercer
was not ready, the society adjourned for
the summer vacation.
	On June 10, the annual meeting for the
election of officers for the ensuing year
was held and after interesting reports of
the year’s work from all of the retiring
officers, the annual election was held and
resulted in the election of Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon, Regent; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
and Miss Catherine Wells, Vice Regents;
Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer, Secretary; Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey, Cor. Sec’y; Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Ass’t Sec’y; Mrs.
Sarah F. Smith, Treasurer; Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall, Registrar; Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Historian; Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chap-
lain. The Regent expressed her desire
to do all in her power to promote the
spirit of patriotism and make the year’s
work successful.
	Saturday, Sept. 16 at 3 p. m. the D. R.
Society held its first meeting after the
vacation, Regent Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-
non presiding. After a brief address in
which she expressed her appreciation of
the honor conferred and her desire to do
her utmost to increase the membership
and give satisfaction in the position to
which she had been elected, the minutes
of the May meeting were read and ap-
proved and as the Treasurer who had been
chosen could not accept the position, Mrs.
Mary E. R. Webber was elected by unan-
imous vote. A very excellent and interest-
ing paper was given by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth on the life and military ca-
reer of Gen. Stark- quite a number of
comments were made, Mrs. B. W. Smith
stated a member of the Smith family
Mrs. Zilpha Stark Smith was a grand-
daughter of Gen. Stark. The other paper
on Dr. Joseph Warren could not be given,
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatic being absent in
Mexico. Society adjourned until Oct. 16
same hour and place.


