Relief Society Responsibilities President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] come here this afternoon to give to you a brief address in relation to the Relief Society of the Church. And I know you are just as well acquainted with the organization of the Relief Society as I am; nevertheless, I jotted down from the history a few items in relation to the organization and the instruction that was given at that time by the Prophet Joseph Smith. As you know, the society was organized March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo. And on that occasion the Prophet, John Taylor, and others were present and assisted. "Ihe Female Relief Society," I am quoting, "was organized in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith" who stated "that the purpose of the society is to furnish the sisters of the Church an organization through which they may actively foster the welfare of the members." 'The duty of the society was stated to be "to aid the poor, nurse the sick and afflicted, and in a general way, under the direction and guidance of the bishop, to engage in the charitable work in behalf of all those requiring assistance." This was the first organization of women in the world, so far as history records, and I think that is quite an honor to think that the women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints took the Page 150 | feel honored in being invited to first step in the interest of the women. "This is in keeping with the genius of the gospel," the Prophet said, "for the Lord provides duties and labors for all the members of the Church, both men and women, wherein service may be rendered for the temporal as well as the spiritual salvation of man." The Church was so organized that all the members may find in it some activity. As you know, most of the so-called Christian churches depend upon their minister. He does all the work, looks after the spiritual interest of his members, but they do not have the work divided among the members. But the Lord has so arranged things in The Church of Jesus Christ, that every man and woman in it may find some responsibility or something to do. So it was as natural as it could be for a Relief Society to come into existence, so that the women could have a society of their own, not only to engage in the duties which I have read, but that they might, in all particulars, labor in the interest of the women of the Church and, for that matter, in charitable matters in the interest of all the members, male as well as female. And so, by revelation, this organization was _ established. Just as necessary in the Church as any other department. RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITIES N his instructions, the Prophet said: "Do not injure the character of anyone. If members of the society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them, keep all of thy doings within your own bosom and hold all characters sacred." I think that is very wise advice, not only in the Relief Society but in the quorums of the Priesthood and everywhere else within the Church. We should guard the character of every member. We should see that there are no injustices done. Again, on March 30, 1842, he said: None should be received into the society but those who are worthy. All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted. Though the soul be tried, the heart faint and hands hang down, yet we must not retrace our steps. That sympathy alone must not decide our judgment. All must act in concert or nothing can be done. Sisters should move as did the ancient Priesthood, in unity. It should be a select society, separate from all the ills of the world, choice, virtuous, and holy. The society was to assist by directing the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and save the Elders the trouble of rebuking and that they might have their time for other duties. Now, that is from the history. There are a great many duties, responsibilities, that are given to our sisters, not all of them are included in these items that I have read. It is the duty of the Relief Society, not only to look after those who are members of the Relief Society, but their labor should extend beyond those borders. Wherever anybody is in trouble, needs help, in difficulties, sick or afflicted, we call upon the Relief Society. According to the words of the Prophwould be a wonderful thing 15) et here, "It is their duty also to assist in seeing that there is no iniquity in the Church." I take it that those labors would rest more particularly upon them in relation to the sisters of the Church, and they can perform a great and wonderful work by encouraging