Wilderness Road Willard Luce in Utah. They twist among the aspens and the pine and the fir. They crawl along the face of the mountains, looking down into the valleys and deserts. 'They wind through the sand, among the yucca and prickly pear. They drop into the deep, magnificent gorge of the Colorado River and creep between the twisting river and the red sandstone ledges a thousand feet high. One of the most interesting of these is the Hite road. It climbs the plateaus from Richfield on Tin ve are many little roads Willard Luce Highway 89 and winds down into the flame-colored gorges. Part of this road is so new that it is not shown on many maps. Part of it is very old and traverses ancient Indian trails. Part of it climbs up over 8,000 feet, where the heavy snows keep it buried until late spring. Part of it drops down to 3,400 feet, and crosses the Colorado by ferry at Hite in the upper reaches of Glen Canyon near the mouth of 'Trachyte Creek, a northern tributary. Figs and pomegranates and other semi-tropical fruits are raised here in a remote and sequestered paradise. MRS. ARTITUR CHAFFIN RUNS THE FERRY AP LTTE ON THE COLORADO Page 186 WILDERNESS ROAD Hite is the best known ford, and the only practical crossing for automobiles, along that lonely and perilous stretch of river between Navajo Bridge over Marble Canyon in northern Arizona, and Moab in eastern Utah. And, although far from a straight line, it is the shortest distance between Capitol Reef, near Fruita, and the Natural Bridges National Monument, some fortyseven miles from Blanding in the southeastern corner of Utah. According to Western definition, a reef is an upthrust area with a cliff face; and that's a pretty good description of Capitol Reef National Monument. 'The roadway follows along the base of the craggy reef, switching back and forth down a dry stream bed. It climbs up past the Chimney Rock, and on up to the edge of Mummy Cliff; then it drops back down again. At the bottom is Fruita, a small farming community in the heart of the Monument. 'The green of its fields and orchards makes a sharp » contrast to the red sandstone ledges. In spring the peach and cherry and apricot blossoms offer an unforgettable sight against the green fields and red ledges. Six miles farther on, the road enters Capitol Gorge. Here huge sandstone cliffs rise 1200 feet on either side of the chasm, which twists and turns, and finally squeezes down to The Narrows. In this shadowed place the gorge is only eighteen feet wide, but the ledges still rise a thousand feet in the air. The road and the dry stream bed are one and the same, an excellent place not to be during a flash flood! 187 T Hanksville, the last town in this wilderness, the road turns south for several miles before swinging back towards the east and dropping down into North Wash. Down the wash, the road is rough. It crosses and recrosses the alkali-filled and cottonwood-lined watercourse. It bounces over the top of waterrounded stones, and wiggles through sand-filled stretches. And always it drops lower and lower, until it finally comes out onto the banks of the Colorado River, where the elevation is only 3,400 feet. The seven-mile drive downriver between the cliffs and the stream is a breath-taking experience, with the canyon walls swinging in to crowd against the river, then retreating. The willows and the tamarisk hug the water's edge, while the desert primrose and prickly pear blossom on the rocky hillsides. It's an intensely colored country, a rugged, contrasting country. The Hite ferry is a toll ferry, a wooden barge propelled by a gasoline engine. The great river at flood tide is 640 feet across, and its southeast brink is surmounted on the southeast side by an ancient stone fortress, standing aloof and lonely above the river. The ferry, in use all the year around, has been operated at times by a woman—Mrs. Arthur Chaffin—an expert at guiding the heavy barge which carries dozens of trucks and cars across the river every day. After leaving the ferry the road climbs upwards again and crosses the rugged and mysterious White Canyon country forty-two miles to the Natural Bridges National Monument. In the Monument there are three large and picturesque nat- 189 es set Toughly in 4 Mangle, fo, the Capito] Building In WashTe€ miles Part, thus Makin ington, D Ene > " ins on tO see a From the bridges ¢ Toad climbs: ses, in Pidly up past the sty lofty Chasm coy tty, there are reks called t Mote ag Protected an Tuins, "11 peaks cq 7 ancient p Toglyphs, 4 d Ntain, across loneliness ™A€ny chasms to Blan Ng and Utah °N—reaches of tOckscape es "ay 47. "ol Which even yet have t been Com It's a 800d dirt Toad, this wilderpletely explored Ness road, but One not to be taken The Owachomo Natura] bridge is in bad Weather, It jig best in an Only a short distance ftom the Toad, Weather to take along extra yw ter and is by far the best known of the food, beddin three. Sipap > however larger and mor 8 as, and > is Tepair materia] IS a € impressive reveal. Tough desert Toad into Temote ing the Patient wo, f winds and grandeur; Toad full of adventure Water over; the Io turies, Jy Stark beaut » and Many Surprises aS a span of 261 feet a d arches 35 Respect this roaq for what It is feet aboy, the Canyon floor here ang you'll have a once-in-a-lifetime lS Enough Space beneath the br; 8€ - trip. Photogra h Monu ano Your Mission to the wor] d has just begun, Ou cannot falter til] the r. Tun And al] God's Ontent, at last to say, « wadise —COWSEP My Pa HE sun came creepin 'de of the deep untains 1 ime co +o the beating of tt ds with mist hard hoofs. Ch sack closer aS n lowlan w. 'The chill morming air jun il i filled down the hill into t the farm 1 their ugline d in with music. Ik roots of gna gouth—Cowslip called because of the large bed of ips that clustered about MY PARADISE—COWSLIP HOLLOW the stream near the mouth of it. This hollow was my paradise. In it lived all anyone's imagination could create.. There was little Yosemite Falls, which I used often for a shower bath. Not far from this, the great throne, on which one sat and imagined herself a queen. But best of all was the stage just below, with its organ behind it, its choir seats that tiered the whole hillside. When you were standing in the pit ready to conduct this choir, directly behind you and half a mile across the valley, were the great red ledges to echo and amplify the choir. I found a beautiful tapered willow, and with this I led my choir. I had learned to whisper, and the soprano would whisper back. I could, if I was careful, pitch every part, and the choir would sing, and then the red ledges would answer back. The hills would come alive, and all those seats would fill, and we would sing, and I would thrill from head to toe. This day, after my choir had ren-. Dered an anthem, and before the strains had fully died away, I turned and saw, sitting on his horse watching me, Duchesne George. His long black braids fell over each Shoulder, and the familiar weatherbeaten face smiled kindly. He 191 nodded and pointed to the hills above and behind me and said, "You make 'em all talk, make talk more." I smiled and nodded. Half forgetting my audience, I decided to play an organ interlude. I whispered, my hillside organ whispered, and far across the valley the red ledges whispered back. I went from note to note, releasing all I could remember of what the birds had told me in the early dawn. With the organ playing bird music, my great choir burst into song. I stood in my make-believe cathedral, a master of music, a composer of song. Again, as the last tremor of the organ was dying away, I looked behind me, for in my triumph I had forgotten the gentle Indian. He was gone. I could see him slowly riding south on the dusty road. The shadows of evening were gathering; already my cathedral was chill, I mounted my pony and started my charges up the hill. We pushed our way over the topmost ridge and came through the cluster of cedars. The Master Painter was dipping the western sky with deep purple and flecking it with crimson and gold. In the east, behind us, the cotton clouds were touched with pink, and they floated softly in the blue dome of the sky. ><. - Bae Vesta N. Lukei Without An island shore To edge with foam, the sea Lies barren as a meadow with No tree. Chloe Call Later Makes Her Own Quilt Designs Chloe Call Later, Rigby, Idaho, who recently celebrated her sixty-fourth birthday, has designed many silk quilts and other articles of exquisite handwork. She is an artist in free-hand design, and no two of her quilts are alike. Her patterns range from lovable bunnies to a "proposal under a weeping willow tree." This love of artistic expression began when Mrs. Later was a girl in Primary, when she pieced blocks to make a quilt top and presented the finished article to a needy family in the ward, Her first baby quilt, or carriage robe, was made in 1928 for her first grandchild. Since that date she has designed and made over two hundred silk quilts. She has also assisted in making hundreds of quilts in Relief Society and has directed the making of many other quilts. A soft, golden silk quilt is now being completed by Mrs. Later in anticipation of the graduation of one of her granddaughters. Each of her children, and every married grandchild has, to this date, received one of her lovely silk quilts. Mrs. Later's talents and industry also extend to many other types of handwork, including crocheting, embroidery, and the making of exquisite bags and greeting cards. Mrs. Later has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations, except the Sunday School. Her Relief Society activities have been extensive, including eight years as work director for Rigby Stake Relief Society, five years as president in Bremerton, Washington, ten years as a member of the sewing committee in Rigby Second Ward, and thirty-six years as a visiting teacher, Mrs. Later is mother to nine children, grandmother to eighteen, and great-grandmother to two. She also does genealogy work and sings in the ward and stake choirs. —_- Comneunivation Dora Toone Brough Prayer is a key God gave to us Whereby we might commune with him; To seek for wisdom, peace, and truth, And keep faith's light from growing dim. Page 192 a first-class du windows, it looks like a beautiful view > Making them seem as © Tetaining wal] Makes Test of the garden, 4S livable as_ the Page 193 Today | Reveal Them Rose A. Openshaw O one can steal the treasures of my childhood, which I have kept locked in a jewelled box in a remote corner of my heart. The jewels are composed of hope and joy and tears, and today, for the first time, I shall take them out one by one and reveal them. Some of them, perhaps, may strike an echo in your own soul, for no doubt you have treasures that are quite similar. These treasures are priceless; and while once they were concrete acts or objects or words, through memory they have resolved themselves into cherished scenes or pictures, and of these was the fulness of my childhood composed. It was composed of being carried on my father's shoulders to church, until the gash in my foot, cut on broken glass in a stream, mended; or of mother holding the injured part over a plate of live coals, from which smoke from burning sugar twirled and swirled upward, to cure it. Of finding a beautiful doll with brown hair and eyes on the only Christmas tree we ever had, long stockings hung from mantels over the fireplace being the usual order. Of hugging in rapture the wooden cradle my father in his tenderness made for my doll. Or being unable to play, or scarcely to eat when mother's head ached; and of worrying and praying for her all the day long, when she made the horse and buggy trips to Phoenix, for sometimes the horse was balky and she might get hurt! Page 194 Of corn-roasts in which neighbors of all ages took part, and of the glorious game of "Run-Sheep-Run," played by all of us afterwards. Of my chum and I being commended by our teachers for "always being prepared," and so privileged for out-of-door study. Of the fig tree between our homes where we nailed a box and daily placed notes when we couldn't visit each other. Of being surprised, when I was ill, by the gift, from my sister Delta, of a gorgeous jade velvet hood, lacedecorated in ecru, for my doll, which has endeared my sister to me through all the long years that have followed. Of helping my brother Frank locate and repair weak places in fences, working with redoubled energy after his words of praise that I was better help than the boys he had had. Of getting up entertainments, aided by my chum, to which the entire village paid a nickel admission charge. Much of the program, of dialogues, tableaux, readings, and welcoming speeches was composed by ourselves. Of being present for a campfire meal just as the desert's shadows were growing purple-faced from stretching their long lmbs before retiring, and of smelling the aroma of potatoes, onions, and _ bacon stewing together, and the fragrance of hot bread fresh from a_bakeoven. Of standing around with my lit- TODAY | REVEAL THEM tle friends wondering if any food would be left, when the General Authorities from Salt Lake, or the county school superintendent, were served hot biscuits, mashed potatoes, stewed chicken, and gravy, and creamy rice pudding (as only my mother could make), and the table refused to accommodate all at one time. F' tying, with my chum, in a Book of Mormon chapter-reading contest, and winning a beautiful, pearl-handled pen. Of picking turkeys, both at Thanksgiving and Christmas, to earn money for Christmas presents for my parents. (Hard was the work for tender hands.) Of sponsoring sewing clubs so we could make pincushions and other items for gifts out of scraps of silks and ribbons. It was such joy to give! And of my most dreaded task of all—taking milk five miles away to the dairy in the old buckboard (buggy) mornings. Five miles distant the dairy stood, and there was' much to intimidate a small girl along the way. Of gathering plums with the first tint of rose on their cheeks and burying them in a shallow hole in the moist earth, supposed to hasten ripening, then of digging them every day to see if they had matured. Of helping my married sister, Etta, whose health was poor, with her laundry and dishes, and keeping her company nights, homesick to the core of my being for mother, 195 with our house less than a block away. Of riding to a Phoenix circus in the back of a wagon—seeing the strange animals and the unbelievable performance, and being treated at the noon-hour to what seemed a meal of meals—baker's bread and bologna. Of visiting the ostrich farm in Phoenix, seeing the long, graceful plumes milliners fastened together to adorn hats and of seeing the huge, ivory-colored, massive-shelled eggs firsthand. And of the incomparable happiness of hunting the first wild Howers of spring. Oh, the exultation that swelled my heart in the joy of discovering the fragile, fragrant blooms! Comparable it is today to finding glorious truths concealed in the tall green grass of books and sermons. Yet while these shall live on eternally, the flowers wilted before we finished our mile-long trek! Too, how we thrilled to the loveliness of the first tiny eggs in the well-woven, basket-like nests, hidden away in the leaf-fluffy trees. Oh, mine was a happy childhood —a happy, carefree existence, and made more so by the knowledge of the abiding love and unity existing between my parents, for never to my knowledge, did one unkind word ever pass between them. And I thank them—thank the dear ones from the bottom of my heart for saving me the heartaches, the stabbing grief and pain that would have cut so deeply into tender hearts had it been otherwise. MN