way down inside you." llc skipped again. "And it was quiet, like nobody else had to hear if they didn't want to." It was after that, maybe a dozen steps nearer home, that I felt the pity. It was 1 heavy thing in my chest, and it was for those two women who had sat in front of me who hadn't been able to see a little bov's beautiful heart because it lay behind a plain, little face. ASO % CANTATAS for LADIES THREE-PART CHORUSES _ Eastertide—Protheroe.75 a Eastertide—Avery.75 4 From Darkness to Light— Tschaikowsky -..-..80.. Glory to Easter (Two Part) —Norman EE.80 — Life Eternal—Holton __.80 — Memories of Easter Morn —Lorenz _ -22ee eee eeceeeeeeee.80 WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [] On Approval (3 Charge [} Money Enclosed AddreSS o. Oo e ccc c ccc ccneccecceeceeecenaceeceeesceneeeeeceeceees \ CS, enn! FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY val nes Ze MAIN STREET To, SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 206 Bathroom Sricks PottTrep PLANts IN THE BATHROOM Elizabeth Williamson Bathrooms become enriched and more attractive by adding small pots of flowers or leafy plants. A metal container on the tile dressing table is especially effective. 'The most charming effect is a philodendron which grows up and across the top of the room, or around the dressing table. ~-<—-o Hurry Home Elsie McKinnon Strachan Someone fashioned for loving Is waiting your return, Cheering the place With diminutive grace And sweet, blue-eyed concern. Someone heart-warmed and fragrant, Petal-soft and new, Has come to stay And spends all day Reminding me of you. Brighten the Caer Where You Tak Caroline Eyring Miner \ was one good man's Philosophy that one was never fully dressed until he had "put on a smile." Since I was 4 child and learned to sing lustily, "Little Purple Pansies," with the lines: "We are very tiny, but must try, try, try, just one spot to gladden, you and I," I have believed with all my heart that it was our very great responsibility to be cheerfy] and thus to lighten the burdens of those about us. It is not nearly so important in life what happens to us as the way we take what h happens to us. Some People have the appy faculty of making steppingstones out of coun and some have the great misfortune of making mountains of trouble out of molehills, Saint colonization was very difficult, and sometimes the families were hungry. I have heard my uncle tel] how mother would say to him, "Now, Thomas, you know you've had all the pancakes you could eat. You've really had plenty," and he had nodded assent, although he hardly knew why. "It's the songs ye sing and the smiles ye wear that are making the sunshine everywhere." In the midst of sorrow and confusion, it would be well for each person to feel