[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | February | Issue: 10 | Title: TWO SOCIAL GATHERINGS. | Author: Unknown]

TWO SOCIAL GATHERINGS.
	A very happy social affair was given by
Mrs. Elizabeth J Stevenson to a number
of ladies, old friends of hers, who by invi-
tation met at her cosy home and spent the
afternoon in pleasant conversation, renew-
ing old time intimacies and contrasting the
present with the early days in the valley.
A sumptuous dinner was one of the fea-
tures of the visit, to which all did ample
justice. The tables were prettily decorated
with carnations and smilax, and the snowy
linen and elegant china made the variety
of viands still more tempting.
	At the head of the table was seated the
veteran president of the Relief Society,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, who pro-
bounced the blessing upon the food.
	Twenty-one guests were invited and
nineteen were present Of these Mrs.
Lucy B. Young and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
had recently returned from foreign mis-
sions, and naturally their experiences were
an interesting part of the conversation.
	Mrs. Stevenson was assisted in receiving
by her daughter, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, and
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Ezra T. Stevenson.
The young girls who helped serve were
Miss Gardner, Miss Clark and Miss Wil-
cox. The affair was very enjoyable and
was decidedly a social success. 

	On Wednesday, December 4, 1901, Mrs.
E. J. Stevenson gave a family dinner
party in honor of the recent marriage of
her son, Ezra T. to Miss Richards.
Twenty guests received invitations, of the
number were Bishop Robert T. Burton and
wife, Dr. Heber John Richards and wife,
Mr. Walter E. Wilcox and wife, Dr. C.
F. Wilcox and wife, Mr. James Stevenson
and wife and Mrs. Ezra T. Clark. All


are relatives of the family or connnected
by marriage.
	The gathering was a most enjoyable one
and will be remembered as such for years to
come by all who participated therein, as a
pleasing reminder of the hospitable hostess,
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who has been
accustomed to entertaining largely in the
lifetime of her distinguished husband,
Elder Edward Stevenson, a well known
character in Church history.


[Column 1]
