[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | December | Issue: 7 | Title: THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS. | Author: Unknown]

THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.

There’s plenty of hardship in pioneer life,
	A hard working stint at the best:
But with brawn and pluck and courage rife, 
	The heart beats with hope in the breast.

	“Why, Elizabeth, what brought you out-
side the fort walls so late in the day; are
you not afraid of anything, girl?”
	“Afraid,” the girl answered “that some-
thing might happen to you on your peri-
lous trip, and you don’t know how good it
seemed to hear the rolling of the wagon
wheels over the frozen ground, the steady
tread of the oxen, the crack of your whip,
and best of all, the sound of your voice say-
ing ‘gee’ and ‘haw,’ urging the oxen
along.”
	“It is very sweet of you,” the boy said,
“to think of me and come out to meet me.
The other boys are not far behind; but

[Column 2]
come, walk close beside me, sweetheart, and
I will tell you of the trip.”
	So, hand in hand, the two young lovers
walked close beside the loaded wagon, ex-
changing experiences of the last few days
and thinking all the time of each other,
roughly and not too warmly clad, but
hearts warm and true and minds clear and
pure as running water.
	“Our trip, Elizabeth, was quite success-
ful, though rather hard. We followed the
creek as far as the road permitted; but
shortly after entering the canyon, it be-
comes so narrow that we made a camp,
where John and I watched the wagon and
cattle and gathered small wood, while
Charley and Sam explored farther up and
found some splendid pines. The first day
they took the axes and ropes and felled as
many trees as they could, and yesterday
John and I took our turn, so we have two
fine loads of logs and two of smaller wood
for firing. Now your mother can have a
floor in her house, and we can all have
warm, cheerful fires for Christmas, if noth-
ing more. The other boys are some dis-
tance behind, though not far. You know
I boast of my good driving, and besides
there was a magnet drawing me on, which
I knew not of. The Lord bless you, Eliza-
beth; for thinking of me, few boys in the
valley are as lonely as I. Do you know
when I saw my mother die on the ocean,
and her body lowered in the great white
sea, I could myself have died. All desire
for life, all future hope left me, and there
on the ship’s deck, death would have been
welcome. My sisters wept, my little broth-
ers clung to father's hand; but I seemed
alone, my heart almost ceased to beat. I
was like stone, no tears or sobs relieved the
dull pain of that dreadful hour. It seems a
marvel that still we live after such suffer-
ing; but the old ship steadily tossed along
the waters, the waves closed over her body,
aud the great ocean heaved just the same;
and life has rolled along, sometimes throb-
bing, sometimes sobbing, but still carrying
out no doubt my destiny. Can you be pa-
tient and wait for me? With your love for
my guiding star, I shall never fail. We
are nearly home now, you must forgive me
if I recall sad scenes, I have never been
able to talk of mother to any one but you
and sister Anne. Now for a little while we
must part, I hope your mother has not wor-
ried about you, for really it is hardly safe
for you to venture so far, and besides it is
against counsel for any of the women folks
to leave the fort after sundown. Wise
counsel it is too, for there are many dangers
in this desert country. You are a girl of
wonderful courage; but as you truly love
me, you must take care of yourself.”
	“You speak of dangers,” said Elizabeth,
“are there any new ones? I cannot think
the Lord will let the Indians or the wolves
harm us. We have passed through so
many hardships, privations and sorrows since
leaving our homes, that surely somewhere
in the world we can find a refuge; and be-
sides, those who ought to know have told
us this is the chosen spot. I believe we
are safe and will be protected here. Yes,

[Column 3]
I will do all you ask. Life is pretty hard
for us; but we are young and strong, and
our love will help us through, so now good
night.”
	So they parted, having reached the North
gateway of the fort. Elizabeth knew her
mother would be anxious, and perhaps a
little angry, for she did not altogether ap-
prove of her daughter’s love affair. So
hastening into her rude home, she quickly
explained that the boys were all coming
and that John would soon be home, though
in fact she had neither looked nor listened
after meeting her lover to learn whether her
brother was near or not, That was only
because she had been so sympathetically in-
terested in his story, for she possessed all
the best, kind attributes of a sister, and be-
gan immediately to prepare something
warm and nice for her brother and to think
of his comfort.
	In the meantime, the young man had un-
yoked and cared for his oxen, and then re-
ported himself to his uncle, with whom he
lived, and who had sent him into the can-
yon for logs. He hinted in his conversa-
tion with Elizabeth about dangers, but to
his uncle he had something quite important
to report. A large number of Sioux Indians
were camped up the canyon, just having
come away victorious from a conflict with
some Utes, and it was more than likely
that they would come down in the settle-
ment and worry and frighten the settlers if
nothing more. At any rate, a visit from
the Indians always meant a dividing up of 
provisions for the sake of peace, and the
people were not any too well provided for
themselves, with a long winter before them
and no hope of any more companies coming
in with supplies before the spring. 
	In pioneer days in the far west, the set-
tlers had to live close together for protec-
tion, and the first Fall of forty seven, the
few families of Mormon emigrants who
reached the valley built themselves homes
of adobes and logs, all as it were in one en-
closure. A high wall of adobes enclosed a
large square, thus forming the outer wall
of the several homes, mere huts, one would
call them now, all facing an inner court.
Rude logs sawn in half made the rafters and
supporting beams, while loose soil was
thrown over the rafters to form a roof.
Some of these huts had doors, and some had
floors, but others had the bare ground for a
floor, and only an open space among the
logs for a door way. There was only the
smallest openings in the outer wall for out-
looks, for there was no such thing as glass for
windows, and the dangers were many.
Great herds of white wolves and howling
coyotes came down from the mountains
night after night and prowled and howled
and tore around the walls, and the Indians
were not always friendly either. So much
care had to be taken to make these homes
secure. In these days everybody had much
hard work to do, and the women were only
too glad to help construct these rude homes.
To them, these walls of logs and mud meant
rest and protection, and a king’s palace is
no more than that. 
	After George had eaten his supper and


[Column 1]
sufficiently warmed himself, his uncle sent
him to the different houses to ask the men
to gather in his home for a little consulta-
tion, warning him, however, not to say
anything to alarm the women folks. George
made the round of the different houses,
leaving his message, and last of all knocked
at the door of Elizabeth’s home hoping
with a lover’s fondness to have a few words
with her that night; but, with her brother
John, she had gone to one of the neighbors to
help plan some Christmas entertainment
for the children; so after giving to her
father his uncle’s message, he returned to
his own home a little disappointed, but still
with the memory of her brave words in his
mind, full of hope for the future.
	The conference lasted about an hour, and
by that time every man in the fort was
ready to act as guard or soldier, just as oc-
casion should require. All guns were that
night inspected, and the powder horns hung
dry and near at hand. A detail of young men
was appointed to act as sentries on the four
sides and also to take information to the
families still living in wagons and tents
who were not yet inside the enclosure.
	While all these precautionary prepara-
tions were being made by the men, the
women were silently wondering what they
could do to make Christmas a little happier,
a little different from other days. The
mother nature always loves to do some-
thing nice for little folks; but oh, the dearth
of everything! How much poorer than
ever they seemed at this time.
	Elizabeth’s brother had brought from the
canyon with his logs some young pines,
and they had wondered if in some way
they might not be utilized to please the
children. So together John and Elizabeth
had gone with these young trees over to
Mary Dilworth, the little school teacher, to
discuss the matter. Other young folks
were also gathered there, and the hours
passed quickly.
	“Oh,” said Mary, “how pretty and green
they are.”
	“Yes, if we only had some of our Michi-
gan cranberries to string on them, we
might have a real Christmas tree,” an-
swered John.
	“Well,” she replied, “there’s no good
wishing for things we cannot have, and the
sight of the green pine needles will be
something for them after all. Come over
to the school tomorrow, Elizabeth, and
help me tell them a Christmas story and
teach them a happy song. The little folks
have always such a sober life, we can at
least try to brighten it for one day!”
	“Aren’t you glad, girls,” said Sister
Riter, “that the Battalion boys are with us
again? You young folks can at least have
a dance tomorrow night. Jesse Earls’ fid-
dling just makes us older folks want to
dance.”
	This was two nights before Christmas,
that in the same enclosure two confer-
ences were held, one among the young
folks planning amusement and making
merry with music, laughter and jests, and
one among the elder ones planning means
for protection and safety.
	As Elizabeth and John crossed the court
they noticed the sentry pass the gateway,
and immediately the word danger used by
her lover came to her mind. Without ex-
changing a word with her brother about
the circumstance, she crossed immediately
to the sentry and asked for an explanation.
The boy knew she was impetuous and self-

[Column 2]
willed, but he also knew her to be brave
and true, and he felt she was one who
would neither alarm nor annoy any one by
spreading evil tidings, so he expl ined
about the nearness of the Indians and their
warlike appearance. Elizabeth knew not
fear, and besides she was full of assurance
that she herself could scarcely account for,
that their worst dangers were passed, and
she gaily replied,
	“Keep on the lookout for wolves, Millen,
and shoot them if they come too near;
never an Indian will you see tonight.”
	Then rejoining her brother, they entered
the house.
	The mother and the other children were
all sleeping, but the father was waiting for
them, his Bible in his hand and his gun
leaning against his knee. The resemblance
between the father and daughter was most
striking. He, a large, well-built man,
whose very attitude denoted firmness and
courage, a kindly, open countenance with
clear, blue eyes, though heavily shaded,
and a mouth with lips close shut; while
this sweet maid, Elizabeth, almost a child
in years—in those days girls had no youth,
they passed from childhood to womanhood,
for the hardships and sorrows of pioneer
life was a bitter and trying school—was
like a tall red rose, graceful, strong and fair
to behold. She was full of faith and hope
and love. Her mind was rich in thought,
and her hands were never idle. Watching
her movements in her home, one would in-
stinctively recall the words of Solomon,
“She looketh well to the ways of her
household, and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness.” As her parting words with her
sweetheart implied, “I will do all you ask,
we are young and strong and can wait,” so
she always seemed full of strength and
power and courage to battle with any
emergency, and she diffused in her surround-
ings and among her associates, this great
personality, like a rose sends out its per-
fume.
	Some women are full of fears, and full of
tears, nervous and sentimental to a great
degree, but such women are usually those
reared in luxury and refined surroundings.
The dangers of the desert and the toil of
the pioneer made life’s work so incessant
that little time was left for fears or idle
weeping, but the soul was full of sentiment
and the very desert seemed to breathe of
hope.
	“Why father,” said the girl, ‘ you look
quite formidable, let John take your gun
and put it up, and I will read you a verse
or two from the good book while you pre-
pare for bed. I know all about your meet-
ing, and there is no need for you to watch,
for the boys will give us plenty of warning,
and I must sit up a while to knit, so if
there is occasion, I can wake you.”
	Then turning to her brother, she said,
“How very tired you must be, John dear,
after your canyon trip! Do get to sleep as
soon as possible.”
	So in her masterful way, she assisted
them both, and soon all was quiet, not a
sound but the steady clicking of her needles
as they worked in and out of the long com-
forter she was making for her lover’s
Christmas gift. Swiftly the needles flew,
and swifter flew her thoughts.
	“If George had not received this mission-
ary call, we might be married next spring
and begin to make a home for ourselves;
but as it is, it may be for years before we
really do begin to live. I believe I will get

[Column 3]
Mary Dilworth to teach me privately this
winter, and then when the new settlers,
come in next year perhaps I can start a
school, and so begin to earn a little money
and perhaps lay by something towards a
home.”
	So her thoughts ran on until the candle
burned down in the socket. She dared not
be so extravagant as to light another that
night, so carefully folding up her work,
was preparing for bed, when on the clear,
cold air was heard the report of a gun.
Quickly she sprang to the port hole in the
outer wall, but could see nothing, so she
quietly slipped through the door and ran to
the gate. Others were hurrying from the
houses and for a few moments great excite-
ment prevailed, but investigation proved
that oue of the guards had shot at a prairie
dog, thinking he saw a wolf. Darkness
enlarges the sight as well as the imagina-
tion. After awhile quiet again ensued, but
sleep was almost impossible for many that
night, when it became generally known
that danger was so near.
	The morning dawned clear and cold. The
earth was covered with a heavy frost that
glistened like jewels in the sun. The
housewives were astir early for there was
much to do that day. Elizabeth had de-
termined ty help Miss Dilworth entertain
the children, and early in the morning was
baking doughnuts in all sorts of fancy de-
signs, rings, hearts, balls and baby shapes;
grotesque enough some of them were, but
pleasing to the eye and certainly sweet to
the taste. With colored yarns and fancy
doughnuts they decorated the tree, and the
little ones were happy, for they had not ex-
pected anything. The pioneer mothers
dared not tell their children fancy stories of
Santa Claus and Christmas cheer, for well
they knew no such visions could be real-
ized, so the little folks received a pleased
suprise with this simple offering.
	Mary Dilworth—a girl of great intelli-
gence and wholly unselfish—had opened, as
soon as the room could be built, a school
for the children of the settlement, and had 
given her time and thought freely for their
benefit. The little folks loved her, and
were eager to learn, and on this day before
Christmas, she seemed particularly happy
among them; and with Elizabeth’s help,
they sang songs and played merry games
for some time, when standing before them,
she told them the story of Christmas, not
the merry making of today, but the true,
sacred story of Jesus’ birth. Ah, many
Christmas tales are told and written, but
after all what can equal that beautiful story
of Mary with her babe in the manger, when
the wise men came to worship and brought
beautiful gifts, and the glory of the Lord
shone over all!
	Elizabeth listened as intently as the chil-
dren and felt more than ever the desire to
help and to do good to some one, more
than ever anxious to sing praises and to
cease all complaining. And as the children
rose to receive their little cakes from her
hands, she said, “Let us all repeat the
Lord’s prayer, and then say together
“Peace on earth, good will to men.” Alter
this little ceremony with the children, a
perfect calm seemed to rest upon them all,
and a heavenly glow filled their hearts to
such an extent that to their sights the room
was all rosy-hued; and never a happier,
more contented little assembly ever dis-
persed that that.
	Elizabeth was full of the spirit of this oc-


[Column 1]
casion, and could not immediately bring
herself to the homely tasks of the house; so
after leaving the school room, she started
out for a walk. The sharp snap of the
frost under her feet, and the crisp air but
tended to increase the elation of her spirits
as with long steady strides she wandered
on, neither noting nor caring whither, when
suddenly she realized she had wandered in-
to danger, for not far ahead she saw an In-
dian crouching along, but between herself
and him was a settler’s cabin, and she hast-
ily made for the door, where she found the
poor frightened woman almost in hysterics
as she clung to her little babe.
	“Why, Aunt Harriet, are you hurt?’’ she
asked.
	“Oh no, but somewhat frightened, I ad-
mit, and a little unstrung in my nerves,
now that the danger is over,” replied the
woman.
	“Tell me what has happened, and shall
I go for help?” said Elizabeth.
	“No;” Aunt Harriet replied. “When I
gave the Indian all the bread I had, he
threatened me because he wanted more, and
for a moment I felt as though my last hour
and my baby’s too had come, then I re-
membered our great mastif, chained in the
other room, and pretending to get him
more bread, I went in and loosened the dog
and urged him on. Of course I couldn’t be
cruel enongh to let him quite kill the In-
dian, but I let the dog stay long enough to
make him pretty much afraid and quite
willing to give in to me too. Then I called
the dog off and dressed his wounds and
sent him off. I think that Indian won’t
come round here much more.”
	“I should think not,” said Elizabeth;
“but oh Aunt Harriet! I wish you were not
so far away from the rest of us.”
	“I’m not afraid, and when Spring comes
you’ll all be moving out of the Fort and
making homes, and you see we are just a
little ahead of you,’’ Aunt Harriet answered.
"But what brings you out this afternoon,
Elizabeth?”
	“I have been in the school-room today
with Mary Dilworth, and the exercises and
sweet stories she told the children so im-
pressed me that I thought I would rather
walk awhile and think of this holy theme
than go back to my cooking, and I only
chanced this way by accident; but now, I
believe the Lord directed my steps, for
surely you need company after such a
fright. ”
	Elizabeth immediately began to help her
friend with her work and remained until
nearly sunset, when Aunt Harriet’s oldest
son, who had been away for wood came in.
He also had seen a few Indians, but said
they-seemed friendly, and he did not antic-
ipate any trouble from them; but he was
more alarmed when he heard of his mother’s
experience with one of them. Concealing
his fear, however, he began to praise his
mother for her bravery and quick wit.
	“Yes,” the mother answered, "there
was no time to lose, scarcely time to think,
and oh! the thought of a death from the In-
dians! I would a thousand times rather
have died on the plains than to be killed by
these savages!”
	“Yes, Indeed,” answered Elizabeth, but
God is merciful, and I cannot think this
people will ever suffer from the Indians. Of
course we have all the time the dread and
fear and many perilous incidents like this to
alarm and worry us, but we are home at

[Column 2]
last, and do you know, Aunt Harriet, I be-
lieve we are going to be very happy here.”
	“You talk like a good, brave girl, Eliza-
beth, and I am sure you are right. We
have much to be thankful for, after all, and
the greatest of all is the wonderful love of
our people for each other. Tell your mother
and the rest of the folks down at the Fort I
wish them a Merry Christmas.”
	Elizabeth now bade her friends good-bye,
refusing the company of the young man,
for his mother needed him more than she
until others of the family should return,
and with long rapid steps she turned home-
ward.
	The day had been full of interest for her,
and her mind was full of rich, bright
thoughts, the thought of the wonderful
bravery and heroism of Aunt Harriet, more
than surpassed by her tenderness and mercy,
when she bathed and dressed the wounds
of the savage, of her great contentment in
her humble, almost destitute surroundings;
and she knew that all around her were
numbers of just such true, brave, lonely
women, enduring, almost with pleasure,
the greatest hardships and sacrificing every
selfish thought on an altar of faith. Then
she thought of Mary Dilworth, and her in-
tellect and talents, and wished in her heart
that she but possessed the same, for she felt
the great good she could do for others, and
how perhaps she might aid her lover too.
	At this thought, a rush of color suffused
her whole being. Dear George, how manly,
and yet h w gentle he is. “I wonder why,”
she said aloud, "he should have been se-
lected for that new mission. It hardly seems
fair, for as yet he has no means or property
or prospects. Well, he says if I love him I
must not complain, for he will ever bring
his own feelings into submission to the
opinions of those above him in authority.
The experience of our westward journey
ought to be sufficient evidence that obed-
ience is our surest road to success.”
	On reaching home, Elizabeth saw the
young folks already making preparations
for the evening dance. She did not join
them just then, however, but sought her
father to inform him of Sister Young’s ad-
venture, knowing that though the merri-
ment might go on, the vigilant watch must
still be kept.
	All this day George had been busy help-
ing his uncle work on their little home, and
later engaged in some writing and copying
for him, so he had not been aware of Eliz-
abeth’s walk or visit to the school. There
was always much work to do, and he was
never idle, for when his uncle had no em-
ployment for him, he delighted in study.
Opportunities were few, and books were
very scarce, but George’s uncle was a
scholarly man and had succeeded in bring-
ing into the desert some few very choice
and rare books, and he was also more than
willing to help his nephew in his search for
knowledge.
	The temperature was somewhat lower,
as the evening advanced, and a slight wind
began to blow, which the settlers thought
meant snow. There had been no snow in
the valley up to that time, and they had
wished all along for a white Christmas, for
that would seem more natural. The time
for the dance arrived, and young and old
assembled in the little school-room. What
a queer sight! Rough boards, on which to
dance, and tallow candles for the lights. At
the end where the band sat were two lant-
erns and a row of half a dozen candles, then

[Column 3]
around the room in different places, were
candles in tin holders, stuck in the wall.
	The company came to have a good time
and be merry; the music was good, and the
room was warm and their hearts were
warm, so the hours flew swiftly by.
	George had danced only once with Eliz-
abeth, and that in a Tucker quadrille, so
had scarcely had time to speak to her since
the night before; but towards midnight, he
came near and whispered,
	“Should a waltz be called, Elizabeth, will
you give it to me? I have to leave shortly
to take the watch at the East gate ”
	Elizabeth was a great favorite, and had
been danci ng quite gaily all the evening;
but at these words from her lover, she stood
up quickly, and in her usual impulsive
manner, said,
	“I won’t dance again to-night, only with
you; and if you have to go, I shall go too.”
	“No,” said George, "stay and enjoy
yourself. I am sure you are.having a good
time.”
	“Yes,” she answered, “but you are here,
even though you haven’t been very atten-
tive this evening; and when you go, the
good time will go too.” 
	George was greatly pleased with the
girl’s frank confession, and as the strains
of a waltz began, the two young people 
clasped in each other’s arms joined in the
dance.
	The rhythmic motion of the body to the
music of the waltz is poetry to the soul, and
all the harsh, hard things of life are forgot-
ten and only the beautiful remain. There
are moments when all the senses are awake
in their intensity, and one sees the glorious
colors of the rainbow, hears the tender
notes of the song birds, scents the delicate
perfume of the flowers and feels the exquis-
ite harmony of life; and to these young
people, this was such a moment.
	They had seldom been alone, but from
their first acquaintance, they had felt drawn
towards each other, and a mutual confidence
and affection had arisen in their breasts.
Tonight, the affection had become deeper,
and both felt to enjoy the happy moments
to the utmost; but suddenly the music
ceased, then things became real again; and
once more there mingled with the laughter
and the merry-making, the thought of fear
and danger and parting. ’Twas ever [-]o in
the old, old time of long ago. Joy and fear,
gay delight and sorrow’s dread found equal-
place.
	The hour had come for George to take
the place at the gate, and Elizabeth, true
to her word, went with him. As had been
expected the wind had blown over, and a
gentle snow had set in. The ground was
already white with . the soft downy flakes,
and the snow was still falling. George took
Elizabeth to her home, then turned immed-
iately towards his own to get warmer cloth-
ing and his gun. His watch began at mid-
night, and he was anxious to keep his prom-
ise and not delay the relief of his friend who
already had to miss the first part of the
party. As he was walking back and forth,
thinking of his happiness, for tonight he
felt especially happy, Elizabeth joined him,
and in a shy, though gentle manner said,
	“I brought you, George, your Christmas
gift, You know it is already Christmas
morning, and I thought this would help to
keep you warm.”
	So saying, she unfolded the long com-
forter she had been,knitting, and wound it
Continued on page 53.


[Column 1]	
