[Vol32 | April 1945 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: To My Grandchildren Maude Hatch Benedict]
TO MY GRANDCHILDREN
Maude Hatch Benedict
When I am gone, will eager children look Within the pages of this time-
worn book, Their questing eyes ﬁnd nothing here to show Fulﬁlled
ambition, ﬁnished task; will they know Pride—that I left footprints here
below?
Will all the little tasks of love be lost Forever, as a ﬂuﬀ of thistledown-No
heartache, tears, frustration's cost. Nor valor shown, when I am gone-No
thing of me to spur them to go on?
Or will they say of me, ''she still belongs. Her life was made of sunshine
and of songs, Where she walked some radiant memory Of charm, of vdt, of
kindliness in giving, The paths she trod made surer by her living!"
4
Will they smile, a wee bit wistfully,
While thumbing through this dog-eared old scrapbook-

And for a moment will they pause to listen
For my heartbeat in its pages; will they look
Further, wishing to know more of me.
And close the book—a tear left to my memory!
Come in for Dessert
Edna K. Ward
THE • homemaker today who must be hostess, cook, and maid is
discovering many short cuts. Elaborate entertaining, and many-course,
compHcated meals went out with whipped cream and two-inch-thick
steaks. Entertaining at all might require justiﬁcation with so many
homemakers working in war industries, busy in Red Cross canteens and
sewing centers, serving as nurses' aids, and Gray Ladies. Returning home
worn from the work of tlie day, it requires courage to undertake the
entertainment of our friends, and yet it is in times of stress that the
companionship of the friends we see so seldom gives a lift to their morale
and also to our own. If we can ﬁnd a way to extend this courtesy with
simplicity, consistent with rationing restrictions, we may foster the place of
the home in the lives of our children and our friends.
The trend of modern life in America has seemed to be away from the home
and home interests. A dinner downtown or at some club, lunches and
snacks at the drugstore for children as well as adults, has made the home
mean less in the lives of many than it did in pioneer days. Home inﬂuence
has decreased in direct proportion. No one has time for elaborate meals
these days, but any meal should be worthy of the time you do give it. Badly
planned meals are neither fun to prepare nor to eat; the food that appears
daily on your table has to be
Page 220
prepared by someone—and that someone must like what she is doing or the
result will be far from satisfactory. For cooking is a peculiar occupation; to
succeed, it must combine the best of both work and hobby. Only when
cooking is viewed and approached as an art, which it is, is the burdensome
repi-tition of the task turned into a self-gratifying performance. If you give