[Vol32 | April 1945 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman]
Vera White Pohlman^ General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field"
appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
A Seminary Relief Society O AY L. JONES, principal of the Midway
L.D.S. Seminary at Lewisville, Idaho, is giving seminary students an

insight into the operation of Church auxiliaries by organizing the students
into groups patterned after the auxiliaries. His account of the sample Relief
Society in the seminary during the 1943-44 school year states:
"The organization has consisted of three girls—a president chosen from the
Church history class, a ﬁrst counselor from the New Testament class, and a
second counselor from the Old Testament class. The purpose of this
organization has been threefold:
1. To acquaint all seminary students with the purpose and value of the
Relief Society;
2. To give students opportunities to serve their fellow classmates;
3. To train student oﬃcers for future leadership in the Relief Societies of
their wards and stakes.
"The principal project carried out by this organization during the past year
has been the writing of letters to the servicemen from the ﬁve wards of the
school district. These letters have included the following features:
1. A mimeographed letter from the Relief Society oﬃcers;
2. News from the high school, home wards, and from the boys in the
service;
3. A message from the stake presidency, ward bishopric, and the high
school principal;
4. Personal notes written on the back and margins of the mimeographed
letter by seminary students.
"The ﬁrst letter was mailed, in November (1943), to 150 servicemen, the
second, in February, to more than 200, and the third letter, in *May.
Dozens of letters have been received from the servicemen expressing their
appreciation for being remembered. These replies have come from all parts
of the United States and from the battle fronts of the world, including India,
North Africa, Italy, England, the Aleutians, and the South Paciﬁc. The
student Relief Society oﬃcers have organized and supervised all phases of
this letter-writing project, and in addition have carried out the following
activities:

1. Sent get-well cards to students who have been absent because of
sickness;
2. Sent sympathy cards to students who have had a death in the family;
3. Written or visited sick students in hospitals;
4. Suggested and assisted in making beautiﬁcation improvements in the
seminary building;
5. Regularly cared for the potted plants, goldﬁsh, et cetera;
Page 249
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1945
Presidency of the sample Relief Society of the Midway L.D.S. Seminary at
Lewis-ville, Idaho, 1943-44, completing the mailing of one of their
quarterly letters to servicemen from this school district. Left to right,
Counselor Martha Dean Fisher of Annis, President Zelma Hansen of
Menan, and Counselor Patricia Gneiting of Lewisville.
6. Assisted in the seminary graduation
by arranging ﬂowers for decorating
the chapel, assisting the girls with corsages, et cetera."