[Vol32 | April 1945 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: This too Shall Pass Norton]

242 "THIS, TOO, SHALL PASS AWAY" Alice Whitson Norton No silver lining can I see behind the clouds to-day.
That fall so uninvited on my head; So hopeless is the heart within the breast of me, Because a long, sweet, cherished dream is dead.
Numbed by the constant agony of pain, my soul Is like a bier bereft of flowers bright; My thoughts?as motionless as some deep frozen pool And desolate as any unstarred night. And yet I know tomorrow's sun will rise and set, Just as it's done since God created day. And in its warmth I'll find myself remembering With gratitude, "This, too, shall pass away." And then I'll ponder in my heart: "Why did I grope In darkness, thus belittling, the silver gleam of hope?" Ten Miles to Calico Martha Roheson Wiight THE autumn sun poured in through the open windows of the pioneer Mormon meetinghouse. As Mathilda Dawson sat down, it touched with gold the tawny braids wound round her restless, young head. It even brightened somewhat the drab hair of the girl's work-worn mother beside her on the split-log bench. But no sunlight, Tilda thought, could lend any luster to their dull-brown, homespun dresses.
This was the Sunday-afternoon sacrament meeting, so her father sat with the Seventies, just behind the Elders at the front of the room.
Tilda glanced around. Frank Robinson was in his usual place on the opposite side of the meetinghouse. Every Sunday she felt the same tingle, seeing him there among the Elders.
This time, though, his twinkling gray eyes were not waiting for her to look his way.
Tilda followed his gaze across the aisle to the women's side, a little in front of her seat.
What she saw tightened her throat. The strange girl must be from Salt Lake City. She was gay and dainty in pink, white-sprigged calico. She had a clear white skin, and cheeks that glowed like the pink of her dress. Her hair was dark and shining beneath the perky yellow straw hat with pink ribbons on it. Her hands were white and graceful.
They would be soft to touch.
Tilda scowled down at her own hands.
They were tanned almost black, rough and calloused, with Page 242 cracked nails and knuckles.
Quickly she hid them in the folds of her skirt. Any girl could look pretty if she had the clothes, and never had done a lick of work in her life.
What good would that one be in the country? Wouldn't her hands look like something when she got through scraping black pots and washing dishes in hard water and lye soap!
Imagine those French kid shoes after a day's farm work, plowing, planting, hoeing, chopping wood. Wouldn't be worth sic'em! The congregation stood for the opening song. Now Tilda saw the nice fit of the city girl's dress?snug at the waist and with a billowy skirt, three tucks featherstitched in with white floss. "Come, Come Ye Saints!"
Tilda sang lustily to hide the ache in her heart.
That girl was like a princess.
Frank couldn't help looking at a princess.
Just the same, it hurt.
After the song they sat down.
Tilda wanted to crawl off somewhere. She clenched her fists during prayer. Automatically, she put the small piece of fine white sacrament bread in her mouth and swallowed. She sipped the water, passing the large goblet on to her mother. She scarcelv heard First Counselor Williams bearing testimony and telling how glorious it was to be out here in Zion where the Latter-day Saints might worship as they pleased.