A MID-AIR COMPROMISE.

	Not many years ago and not far from the
City of Elmira at a locality known as “The
Female College,” the circumstances which
we are about to relate took place. It seems
that the principal of the college accidentally
overheard a plan among a number of his
young lady students of drawing a young
gentleman up to one of the third story rooms
“in a basket at night,” as no gentlemen
suitors were permitted to visit their college
lady loves and see them alone under the
strict rules of the institution.
	The principal acted accordingly, and at
the appointed time was at the designated
spot, and when the basket was let down,
took the lover’s place gave the signal "twitch”
and commenced going up towards Heaven,
drawn by a trinity or two of angels. (?)
When two-thirds up, the angel expectation,
on looking down, discovered to her terror
and dismay that instead of her lover she
had another man in the basket, and nearly
frightened out of her wits, made the fact
known to her fair helpers in mischief, with
the pertinent inquiry, “What shall we do?”
Whereupon one of their number, noted for
her coolness and presence of mind in trying
emergencies, said:
	“Here! you hold on this cord! Now, do
just as I tell you, and I’ll take care of the
man, no matter who he is or where he comes
from.” 
	Then, taking out her pocket-knife and
opening it, she leaned out of the window,
and in a low but firm voice said: “Who are
you in the basket?”
	No response.
	“I say, who are you in the basket? Do
you hear? I have a knife in my hand, and
unless you answer in less than ten seconds I
will cut the rope.”
	"Why it’s your principal, don’t you know
me? Don’t, for mercy’s sake, cut the rope!
Keep your knife further away from it!”
	“Well, you are in a pretty fix, Professor;
a pretty fix indeed, hanging between heaven
and earth, between life and death. What
do you think ought to be done with you?
A principal of a female college who thus
endeavors at night to clandestinely reach
the room of a lady student ought to be
severely punished and exposed."
	“Oh! I beg of you not to harm me, but
let me down again carefully, and don’t let
the rope slip.”
	“Professor,” said the shrewd beauty, “on
one condition only will we comply with
your request.”
	“Name it! name it!”
	“You must solemnly promise that none of
us who have been engaged in this little
romance shall be disciplined for it, and that
you will make no mention of it to a living
soul while we are inmates of this college
with the understanding that we observe the
same solemn promise. What say you?”
	“I promise—solemnly promise.”
	“Very well. Hold up your right hand.
You solemnly swear that you will faithfully
keep and observe that promise, so help you
God!”
	“I do!”
	“Enough, girls. He has taken the oath.
Lower away.”
	The “professor" was soon carefully landed
once more on terra firma, greatly to his own
relief and greatly to the joy, no doubt, of the
other party of the compromise, and he lived
up to his oath. In after years, however,
when time had absolved him from it, and
the lover whose basket he monopolized on
that eventful night had, as the story goes,
married the girl—who on that occasion was
so “far above him”—the professor used to
tell the adventure to his particular friends,
and laugh over it till the tears ran down his
cheeks, as the most ludicrous scrape he ever
got into in all his college life, and as the only
one he was let out of under an oath admin-
istered—“Ex.”


