HOME AFFAIRS.

	Another entertaining and instructive
meeting of Sabbath School superintendents
and teachers was held on the evening of the
Fourth inst. Every teacher would find it in-
teresting to attend these conventions, when-
ever it is possible.
	Election day passed off as quietly and 
orderly in this city as other days do when there
is no opposition exhibited against right and
liberty; the women of Utah have again had
opportunity for showing their appreciation of
one of the peculiar privileges granted them.
	A Pleasant little company of ladies assem-
bled on Friday, the 8th inst., at the residence
of Miss Rhoda Richards, of this city to do
honor to the 89th birthday of that inestimable
lady. Among the guests, (none, we believe, 
were invited,) were Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. O. Hyde and
Mrs. Persis Richards, of the veteran Mormon
ladies. A very happy season was spent, supper
being served for the company at the residence
of the hostess’ nephew, Dr. H. J. Richards.
	The closing exercises of the Normal School,
which has been held in this city, and to which
we have previously given some attention, gave
evidence of the good results which are likely to
accrue from the organization of such a system.
On the day preceding the termination of the
session, the school was visited by President
Brigham Young, Miss Eliza R. Snow and
others, who, we understand, were well pleased
with the interest manifested in the matter of
education, and gave encouragement to the
same. Measures will be taken to make the
Territorial Normal School an annual occasion,
we believe, so satisfactory has been the experi-
ment this season.
	The excellent regulations of the Fire
Brigade in this city deserve honorable mention.
We recently had the pleasure, in company of
some friends conducted by Chief Engineer 
McAllister, of visiting the apartments occupied
by the company by the City Hall, were a given
number of the members each evening and
night, are required to spend their time. Noth-
ing seems to be wanting, necessary for the im-
provement and enjoyment of those engaged in
this worthy vocation; and, as was observed by
a lady friend, among the splendid rules by
which the company is governed, one chief 
excellence is that smoking and the entire use
of tobacco is strictly forbidden. We were also
pleased with the appearance of the Council
Chamber which has lately been r fitted.
	Of the many essential and inestimable
suggestions given by the Elders for the edifica-
tion of the Saints, at the two days meetings on
the 9th and 10th insts., nothing is of more im-
portance to parents than the directions offered
for the training of the young in the ways of
chastity and virtue. If children are taught to
honor and practice pure and perfect principles, it
is an unquestionable fact that they will abhor
everything of a corrupt and voluptuous nature;and that which they love they will voluntarily
cling to, while that which they hate they will
rigorously avoid. Mothers who have great joy
in their sons are those who faithfully instill
into their sons’ minds, the wisdom of abstain-
ing from the use of tobacco and other unwhole-
some stimulants; for indulgence in one sensual
habit only awakens desire for the gratification
of other like propensities, and it is temptation
which leads to sin. From the appearance of
some young people who frequent the streets of
this city, we fear there are too many unhappy
mothers in Israel.


