REPLICATION.
	We are asked by our contemporary, “The
Balance,” of Chicago, to give “a first lesson”
on plural marriage as believed in by the Saints.
In alluding to our notice of its editorial on the
“Mormon Question,” it gives us credit for treat-
ing it in a more “aimiable and liberal spirit”
than had been expected. To this we answer
in brief, that had we treated it in any other
spirit than that of womanly frankness and
courtesy, we should have done discredit to our
home education, as well as the religion we
profess, and consequent injustice to our own
conscience.
	To any one who prefers to look on the dark-
ened side, rather than to receive light on the
subject, we can hardly hope to offer convincing
arguments in favor of Celestial marriage, al-
though willing to impart information wherever
we can, to those who feel sufficient interest to
enquire—holding it to be a Christian duty to
“give to them that ask” of us. We therefore
take real pleasure and satisfaction in humbly
endeavoring to offer something of an explana-
tory nature in answer to the questions pro-
pounded and opinions given for our considera-
tion by “The Balance.” It says:
	“That there are many saintly Mormon “Wo-
men” we haven’t a doubt. And the men? We
believe that Mormonism is a religion(?) in-
vented “by” men and “for” men—a sort
of Juggernaut, in whose path women are
expected to lay down their throbbing, human
hearts.”
	Through whatever sources the writer of the
above may have obtained such belief, to us 
it is evident, that it is not founded on a correct
understanding of the subject. And how is
human nature to judge correctly of things
it has not tested? That the men who are
Latter-day Saints are those of purest motives
and lives, firmest integrity and greatest human
wisdom, we have occasion to know. And to
us it is ample proof of their superiority, that
the most intelligent and refined women of the
Church entertain the highest estimation and
appreciation of its noble and gifted elders;
while the leading women of almost every other
denomination are crying out against the cor-
ruption and injustice of the men in general,
with whom they are associated.
	Judging from their own testimonies, we
cannot feel to condemn the voices of those
women. For woman has fair reason to wage
war with men of the present generation, who
would tyranize over her, trample her under
their feet and crush out every holy aspiration
borne of purity and innocence, corrupting and
debasing her with themselves, and allowing her
not even a chance to raise a hand or a voice in
her own defense.
	But the women of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, have not these things to
contend with. For President Brigham Young
and his associates have ever sought, and are
still seeking to elevate woman with man, to
that standard of virtue and honor from which
they need fear no scrutiny, and regard no form
of reproach. And many of the wise and faith-
ful Saints, women as well as men, stand to-day
upon that sacred and blessed eminence.
	Speaking father of the “Mormons;” “The
Balance” asks—very appropriately, provided
it has leared nothing of their earnest endeavors,
their ceaseless, indefatigable lalors to elevate,
purify and do good to the human family:
	“If they believe that polygamy is ‘the only
true system of forming marital relations,’ why
do they not try to convert the world? And what
better means have they of doing so than
through their own organs of communication?”
	The former question in the above paragraph,
is easily answered by propounding others.
What other religious denomination has been to
the trouble and expense the “Mormons” have,
to spread abroad a knowledge of that which it
has received as the Gospel of the Son of God—
“The power of God unto salvation?” Where
are the missionaries, except those of the “Mor-
mon” faith, who have traveled without purse
or scrip, teaching the inhabitants of the earth,
the first principles of the Gospel as taught by
Jesus and His disciples—Faith, Repentance,
Baptism for the remission of sins and the lay-
ing on of hands for the reception of the Holy
Ghost? Where are the ministers of a gospel,
outside the “Mormon Church,” of whom those
who thirst can “buy wine and milk without
money and without price”—who preach to the
people Sabbath after Sabbath without a salary
and with no other compensation than the satis-
faction of having the consciousness of perform-
ing the good works which God requires at their
hands, and which they do in His name? If
there are other agents who do these works, we
do not know of them.
	And as for the “Mormons’" [-]organs of com-
munication’--do they not contain a great deal
in relation to the belief and practices of the
people, drawing many distinctions between
truth and error, and good and evil? They do not


always single out: “plurality of wives" as the
only thing the world needs to be taught; for
although it is apparently the chief objection
found by many, to the religion taught by the
Latter-day Saints, it is but an important one of
a grand system of principles, which, taken
altogether, constitute the Gospel of Christ. 1st
place, too, is among the last, rather than the
first principles to be understood. It would be
about as great folly to undertake to explain
the truth and purity of that principle, to a
person who had received no former light per-
taining to the Gospel, as to attempt to make a
child who had never seen a book, understand
how to analyze or parse a sentence in grammar.
	Yet, we will now seek to give some satisfac-
tory replies to the following questions from 
"The Balance:"
	"1. Will you not be so kind as to define
“Celestial Marriage?" We are told that "in
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage,” so we had arrived at the very
natural conclusion that all marriages were
“terrestrial. 2. Do you believe, or have you
any evidence, that polygamic marriage pro-
duces a nobler race of men and women—mor-
rally, intellectually and physicially—than mon-
ogamic? If this could be proved beyond the
possibility of a doubt, it might be worth the
sacrifices it demands."
	To us, Celestial marriage, is indeed the only
true form of marriage ordained of God, and
revealed to Joseph Smith by an holy Angel,
to assist in bringing about the great plan of
salvation for the world, and the eternal exalta-
tion in the presence of God, of as many as will,
in sincerity and purity, accept “all" the doctrine
of Christ, and earnestly and faithfully live in
accordance therewith.
	The Celestial law of marriage requires the
marriage vows or covenants to be sealed for “all
eternity,” as well as for time. And unions
thus bound on earth' in the holy sanctuary—
by one holding the eternal Priesthood of God,
and having authority to administer such
ordinances, through the power of the Gospel,
restored to man by revelation from God—are
not dissolved by death but will remain un-
changed throughout the countless ages of eter-
nity. This preparation leaves no occasion for
marrying or giving in marriage in the eternal
worlds, in order that loving and devoted hus-
bands and wives may be there associated in
the holiest and most sacred of all relationship,
as they are here.
	Only those marriages which are binding on
parties till death separates them, or for a given
time during life, doom their devotees to final
separation.
	We shall not now attempt to “prove beyond
the possibility of a doubt that polygamic mar-
riage produces a nobler race of men and women
—morrally, intellectually and physically—than
monogamic.” We do not even believe that
polygamy alone would have such effect-
But taken in connection with all the other
pure and perfect principles of the Gospel, it is
already proven, although the experiment has
been comparatively, but a few years in opera-
tion, that when a people have become thorough-
ly educated in the ways of righteousness and
eternal life, a stronger, purer and in all re-
spects improved race of beings will be produc d
and dwell upon the earth.


