HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Health in Relation to Beauty.—
The first great law of beauty, as of health,
is cleanliness. Pure water is the best of all
agents of cleanliness.  It is most favorable
to the beauty of the skin and complexion
when luke warm.  After such a bath, the
skin becomes softer, more flexible, sleek
and glossy.  The body should always be 
rapidly and thoroughly dried, and a brisk
walk or some active exercise or other for a
few minutes afterward, will be advanta-
geous.
	The various Russian and Turkish baths,
the effect of all of which is to force the per-
spiration, are not favorable to the beauty of 
the skin. A simple vapor-bath, with
moderate rubbing, may be allowed, but not
the floods of hot steam, followed by dashes
of ice-water, and the dislocating process of
shampooing. The ancient practice of anoint-
ing the body after bathing with oil and
perfumed unguents, was favorable to the
health and beauty of the skin, and might be
revived with advantage. There are various
emollient and perfumed baths, which are in
great favor with the luxurious. These are
composed of oil, milk, buttermilk, or various
aromatic herbs. The famous beauty of the
old French Directory, Madame Tallien, was
in the habit of bathing herself in strawber-
ries and cream. Flax-seed is also a good
ingredient. For an aromatic bath, there
is nothing better than lavender which de-
rives its name from its use. The French
"pote d'amandes," made of almond, ground
rice, orris root, essence of lavender, cloves,
etc., is often added by the Parisian dames
to their bath, and its effect is highly appre-
ciated by them.
	Exercise, in the open air, and at all
seasons, is a prime promoter of health.
Walking when not carried to an excess, is
one of the best methods of exercise. It ac-
quires a regularity of movement, favorable
to graceful development, especially of the
chest and lungs. Taken with a pleasant
companion, or in a party of three or four, it
is better than when taken alone. You
should walk briskly, so as to quicken the
circulation, bring a good warmth to the
skin, and induce a moderate perspiration.
Horseback exercise is particularly favorable
to female form, attitude and grace.  It is,
moreover, held to be the best preventive of 
an excessive plumpness.
	Dancing is also an excellent exercise, but
not as it is generally practiced. Nothing,
in fact, can be more hurtful to the health
than the fashionable balls in overcrowded
rooms, where the atmosphere is hot and
pestilential, the excitement intense and
sensual, and the indulgence in eating and 
drinking excessive and untimely. The 
dance, to be healthful, should be in the open
air, or in well-ventilated rooms, and should
consist not of the stiff, mincing paces of the
modern beau and bell, but of the hearty
shake-downs and double-shuffles of their
grandmothers and grandsires. The game
of battle-dore and shuttle-cock is good, and
so is the “croquet” now in vogue; but both
should be played always in the open air,
and with an out-door freshness of spirit, and
and not the tameness of drawing-room atti-
tudes and manners.
	Gymnastics, or calisthenics, as they are
sometimes called, should be a branch of all
education, and especially of that of girls.
Anthropology, or in fact any other ology, is
comparatively unimportant, when compared
with that art which is essential to the
development of the physical vigor and beauty
of woman. It was in the gymnasium where
the Greek woman formed herself into that
immortal model of graceful proportion,
which all admire and strive to imitate; but
neither modern art, nor nature, unless rarely,
can reach.
	Finally the best means of acquiring and
preserving good looks, and even health, is
the proper culture of the understanding and
affections. A quick intelligence, and a
gentle sentiment, will be reflected purely in
the coarsest medium, and endow the home-
liest  face with an attractiveness beyond
that of all charms of mere form and com-
plexion. Good-humor has more to do with
good-health than is generally supposed.
They re-act upon each other.
	Tomatoes au Gratin.—This simple and
delicious dish is made by cutting some ripe
tomatoes in half, putting them in a buttered
dish with some bread-crumbs and butter,
pepper, and salt, and baking till slightly
browned on the top.
	Apple Cream.—Boil twelve apples in
water till soft, take off the peel, and press
the pulp through a sieve, upon half a pound
of pounded sugar; whip the whites of two
eggs, add them to the apples and beat all
together till it becomes stiff, and looks quite
white.  Serve it heaped up on a dish.
	To Restore Colors Taken Out by Acid.
—Hartshorne rubbed on a wollen garment,
will restore the color without injuring it.
Spirits of turpentine is good to take grease
or drops of paint out of cloth; apply it till
the paint can be scraped off.  Rub French
chalk or magnesia on silk or ribbon that has
been greased, and hold it near the fire; this
will absorb the grease so that it may be
brushed off.
	Rice Griddle Cakes.—One pint and a
half of cold boiled rice; put to soak in warm
water enough to cover it. Mash the rice
well, and make a batter, just before using it,
with one quart of sour milk, one light quart
of flour, salt to taste, two eggs well beaten.
The batter should be moderately thick. Stir
in a teaspoonful of soda just before frying.
	How to Wash Hair-Brushes.—Too
frequent washing is bad for any kind of
brush as it softens the bristles.  Once
a fortnight is sufficient for hair-brushes.
Disolve a piece of soda in warm, but not
very hot water; dip the bristles only of the
brush once in, then rub a little soap on
them, and continue dipping the brush in
and out, taking care not to let the water get
to the back or handle, till it becomes white
and clean, then dip it once into cold water
in the same manner. Shake and wipe it
with a cloth, and stand it, bristles down-
ward, to dry before the fire on a cloth. It
is the water soaking into the pores of the
ivory that makes it yellow. When dry,
rub the back and handle, both of the ivory
and tortoise-shell brushes, with wash-
leather, to polish them.
	Poor Man’s Pudding.—Pour one quart
of hot sweet milk over a pint of stale bread
or biscuit  crumbs; let them soak an hour;
sweeten to taste.  Beat two eggs well; mix
with the bread; stir all well. Season with
orange peel, dried, beaten fine and sifted.
Bake just as dinner is ready. It should be
eaten as soon as done, with solid butter
sauce.
	Bread and Butter Pudeing.—Butter
a deep pudding-dish; line the bottom with
thin slices of light bread, well buttered;
upon this, a thick layer of currents, raisins
and citron; another layer of buttered bread.
Make a custard by beating six or eight eggs
with a quarter of a pound of nice sugar and
a quart of milk. Pour half this custasd on
the bread in the pudding-dish, and let it
stand half an hour. Put over the remainder
of the custard, and bake in a moderate oven.
Large crackers may be split and buttered,
and used in the same way. Serve with
mock cream or arrowroot sauce.


