[For the EXPONENT.		THE WAY THEY DO.

	Some discriminating critic has said
“Fanny Fern has much to answer for in
raising up a regiment of literary termagants
in the land;” and as I have the deliberate
intention of showing my claws this morning,
it is a very convenient theory, since she is
not here to speak for herself, and I may lay
the burden of my sins upon her without the
least danger of being taken to task for it.
	So now, Mrs. Smith, Jones or Robinson,
be prepared, for I know a tale about you and
I am going to tell it without further per-
mission than a defiant “Contradict me if
you dare!”
	You are a young matron whose girlhood,
with its peculiar tastes and feelings, stands
so near you that you could almost touch the
hem of its garments; you think your hus-
band about perfection; you have one baby
old enough to toddle about, call you her
"sweet little muzzer” and be the light of
your eyes; and in your family lives an aunt
whom you greatly respect
	Well, every body knows how sultry and
oppressive the summer has been thus far.
Every breath of air stirs up dust in a state
of white heat, the chickens drag their wings
and birds would be too lazy to sing if they
were not all “out of town.”
	Your husband is absent on business much
of the time, and you have to be both master
and mistress about home; cut your own
wood, water your own garden and do your
own marketing—when you have anything
to market with—but as you pride yourself
on your cheerfulness and independence,
you do not even sigh over all this.
	The July holidays come on, and, although
you used to make it a rule never to miss a
celebration, you have not the heart to attend
this time, because Charles is still absent and
when one has a husband she does not like
to go alone into society, like a widow or old
maid; and so you make yourself and Rose-
bud neat and stay at home to read—not a
novel, but “[-]eecher on Revivals” and “Prof.
Young on the heavenly bodies,” and to
think of your absent lord. “After all,”
you tell yourself, “there would be little
comfort in swelling the mass of panting
patriotism to-day assembled to review the
glories and achievements of the past.
	The holidays being over you suppose
every one will settle down to your dead
level of laziness and weariness, but with a
glad surprise that rouses your languid pulses
to a perfect thrill of delight, you learn that
the whole village, moved by a common im-
pulse of longing for a breath of fresh air, has
appointed a day to ride and ramble

		“The rugged hills among.
		And by the rushing waters.”

	This suits your mind exactly, and you
wish fervently that dear Charles were at
home while there is still time to make
arrangement, for the delightful holiday. To
be sure, you “could” go if he should not re-
turn; for there are your old playmate Nellie
and her husband would give you an
invitation to ride in their light wagon on the
slightest intimation that you would like to
go; and there are friend Matthew and wife,
and others you could mention, who, you feel
sure, would willingly join you to their
family party. And you reflect—with moth-
erly pride and tenderness how little Rosebud
would enjoy the day among the cool trees
and bushes, how lovely she would look in
her while dress, blue-dotted apron and straw
hat crowned with wild flowers; and how
proud you would be to lead her by the hand
among the happy mothers, the graceful
dancers and the laughing boys and girls
about the swings.
	But then Charles—you know you would
miss him, and besides the dear fellow might
feel a little sad to think you could really
enjoy such an excursion without him; or he
might return during your absence to find
only an empty house, and, in his loneliness,
he might think you ungrateful for all his
toil and care.
	You decide that such a thing would be
too dreadful; and mentally kissing the object
of all this sentimentalism, and vowing you
would not hurt his feelings for all the
pleasure parties in the world, you dismiss
all thought of going and betake yourself to
household duties as a loving wife should.
	Late in the evening, the last before the
one appointed for the ride, your dear Charles
returns. You are delighted to see him; you
offer him supper, clean clothes, etc. but not
until next morning, after more important
topics have been disposed of, do you men-
tion the riding party. Your lord pricks up
his ears with, “Is that so?” “Half past
seven,” you answer. “And it is now after
five; well, it is too late for me to rig up a
team now, but I’ll tell you what we’ll do.
I’ll go out in town for some nice groceries
while you dress Baby in her prettiest dress,
and we’ll have a little home holiday and a
cozy dinner together. What do you say,
wife?”
	The darling fellow! you are so happy to
think a day passed quietly at home could be
a holiday to him, that you are a thousand
times glad you had not made any arrange-
ment to go abroad. Full of happy thoughts,
you set about dressing Rosebud while
Charles goes on his errand. Presently he
returns laden with parcels, and overlooking
Baby, who runs to meet him looking like a
little white bird, he tells you hurriedly that
“Brown and them” encountered him over
in town, and nothing would do but that he
must go out with them to see what the
pic-nic-ers were doing. He explains that
he had no idea of such a thing when he left
the house, but that they were good fellows
and he didn’t wish to offend them.
	All your boasted “independence” could
not keep your countenance from falling, and
as your husband is neither blind nor a fool,
he asks compunctiously, “Would you like
to go too?” “No,” you answer softly,
winking very hard to keep back the tears
while he says in a relieved sort of way, and
with the air of one who has done his whole
duty, “I didn’t think you would, since
there are to be only men in the carriage,
and I am only an invited party; but you
and Aunty can make yourselves comfortable
here and have your little dinner together
all the same as if I was with you.” Then
with hasty adieux your adorable Charles
hastens away to his bachelor friends and a
day among the rocks.
	No longer able to conceal your tears, you
throw yourself face downward on your bed,
grieved to the heart, not for the loss of a
day’s pleasure, but for the bitterness of the
discovery that all your delicate consideration
unheeded, was and because the slight and
loneliness you would not risk putting upon
him, he would lay upon you ten times mag-
nified. You think if some other member of
his family were present and he had gone in
attendance upon her as a respectable family-
man should, you would not have felt one
pang even after telling him you were half
sick with longing to go. But to slip in, an
invited guest among those bachelors and
lawyers, with a “boughten” picnic, like any
floating character, you call it an insult to his
family, and wish “Brown and them” were
on the other side of Jordan, and declare to
Aunty that if you knew where to procure a
horse and saddle, you would go yet.  You
do not cease until Baby, with all the solici-
tude of a full fledged woman, lisps forth, in
imitation of Aunty’s rather impatient ex-
hortation, “No-o, mine muzzer, don’t ’ou
bawl about it,” and sets you to laughing in
spite of yourself.
	Then you rise, kiss the little comforter,
bathe your eyes, finish the decoration of
your person and appartment, and utterly
ignoring the dainty materials for a dinner
which was to console you for a slight like
this, you beg Aunty to take charge of Rose-
bud, and sit down to tell the Exponent all
about it; hoping in your secret soul that
“he” will read it and be very indignant,
thus proving that his conscience pricks him.
However, you have no idea that he, or any
one else who might need the hint, would
take it to himself; so you are obliged to
console yourself with the certainty that
scores of wives, young and old, in similar
circumstances will exclaim—“Isn’t that the
truth?” “Just the way they do!” and ap-
plaude your fixed resolution to learn a lesson
from this experience, and, where you can
in the future, take care of yourself.
							L. L. D.


