R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 4th Ward, Salt Lake City. Our
Society was organized Feb. 8th, 1868. Mrs.
Mary Godsall was chosen President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Preece and Mrs. Ann Jenkins
Counselors; Mrs. Louisa Davey Secretary
and Mrs Mary A. F. Jenkins Treasurer:
November 1st 1870, Mrs. Louisa Davey re-
signed and Mrs. Ellen Condie was chosen
Secretary; she dischaged her duties faith-
fully until March 13th 1872, when she
resigned on account of her poor health, and
Miss Mary E. Bailey was selected as Secre-
tary and sustained by a unanimous vote of
the Society assembled. There are but few
in the Society, but those who attend seem
united in seeking to do good.  On the 23rd
of April last, Sisters Elizabeth Howard and
Louise L. Greene were present at a meeting
held in the Fourth Ward Relief Society 
Room. Sister Howard gave excellent in-
structions on  every-day life. She exhorted
the sisters to diligence, obedience and
faithfulness, said they should always prac-
tice what they taught, that they might gain
and retain confidence in each other. She
desired all to subscribe for the Exponent,
the merits of which she extolled elaborately.
Advised them to honor and obey the order
of plural marriage. President Mrs. Mary
Godsall expressed satisfaction with what
had been said, felt that she had been edi-
fied; every thing could not be seen or
learned in one day; there was an endless
variety of lessons to be learned, and each
day some improvement might be made.
She considered extravagance and waste a
great sin, and that children trained to
economize and not use that which was un-
necessary, were a credit to their parents.
	Miss Greene said she liked the looks of her
sisters of the Fourth Ward. They seemed
to have the Spirit of God, without which
none could accomplish good works.  If
trials came, they were merely admitted by
God to purify His Saints, if they would so
receive them. She touched upon the “Word
of Wisdom” as being a great trial to some.
To let tea and coffee alone had never affected
her, she had never used nor cared for them;
to dress plainly and neatly was in accordance
with her taste, therefore it was not difficult
for her to keep out of the meshes of fashion.
So far as known and realized by her, the
principles of the Gospel were all correct and
beautiful. Polygamy might prove a trial to 
her, that she had not tested, but meant to
hold herself in readiness for trials should
they come, and feeling God’s approval she
should be able to pass whatever He might
require of her. She felt grieved to see
many of the young, pure daughters of Zion
marrying outsiders of whom they knew
nothing but that they wore fine appearances.
Whatever good an individual might do for
the Kingdom of God, the reward would be
to that individual; none need fear that in
doing general good, self was to be neglected,
for the only safe way to build up self was to
work faithfully for the Lord who was the
Master of all flesh and to whom the earth
and the fulness thereof belonged. And
likewise, the falling away from the faith by
individuals caused individual injury but
could not stop the progress of the Kingdom.
No one should consider the saving of rags,
bits of writing paper, old letters and envelops
too small work to be attended to, but a
worthy task, in that it would assist in mak-
ing the paper used by the Latter-day Saints,
they would not need to use imported
so paper, but might save at home the means
expended for it.
	President Mrs. Godsall proposed that the
word “Female” be withdrawn from the
name of the society which was acceeded to
by unanimous vote.
	Meeting adjourned and was dismissed by
singing, and benediction by President Mrs.
Godsall.
	Our Society, by the kind help of the
brethren, has built a commodious room
wherein we hold our meetings. We have
missed no opportunity for relieving the
poor of our Ward since our organization,
and have a good showing in the Treasury.
		Miss Mary E. Bailey, Secretary.

	Mrs. A. E. Neal reports a meeting held in
the 19th Ward hall, May 27th of this year,
at which knitting was done by some of the
members, and a skirt was made for “blind
Lizzie;” with the usual cerremonies of
rayer and singing.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held Saturday, the 2nd inst., at their usual
place of meeting, was an exceedingly inter-
esting one. Miss Snow gave a synopsis of
a portion of her late journey to Europe and
through some parts of that division of the
globe, which was received with marked
attention by her hearers. Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball was peculiarly enthusiastic in her re-
marks, and was also listened to with much
consideration. Mrs. Z. D. Young was spirited
and concise in what she said, and Mrs.
Parker, a lady from Omaha, who was in-
vited to speak, expressed satisfaction and
good feelings for the kind treatment she had
received during her brief associations with
some of the people of Salt Lake.


