EDITORIAL NOTES

	In Newark, New Jersey, some workmen,
in digging a well lately, struck “ile,” and
pumped, the first day, about two barrels of
good oil.  The owner, doubtless, considers
his fortune made, but in case of a fire on his
premises, the water sought might have
rendered it more complete.
	Conflagrations continue to do their
part in keeping alive the interest of the
news columns in daily periodicals. Port-
land, Oregon, has had the largest one of
recent date; while London, Philadelphia,
Boston and Concord are prominent among
the cities which report great losses by late
fires.
	The many pleasant notes of congratula-
tion and good wishes for our future pros-
perity and happiness, which the late addition
to our name continues to draw from generous
friends, call for acknowledgments on our
part. Thanks, dear friends; and may you all
live for and realize as great blessings as
your kind words indicate your desire for us.
	It is an interesting feature in the case of
Miss Susan B. Anthony, being convicted of
the crime of illegal voting, that the inspec-
tors of election who received her vote, must
suffer the same penalty she does, which can
not be made to exceed five hundred dollars
fine or three years imprisonment.
	M. S., Maids of Science, is a degree which
has been lately invented for lady graduates.
There should be some title of respect given
to energetic, yet plain consistent women of
the day, who can brave the taunts and jeers
of public criticism, and think and act for
themselves, and show that they have some
individual tastes and ideas of their own.
Why not confer on them the degree of W.
S., Women of Sense.
	It is stated, most positively by New York
papers, that Mr. Ewell, a Massachusetts
ornithologist has in his possession a white
robin; and also that a white robin is a bird
no oftener seen than a “white blackbird.”
If this be true, there may be hopes of worthy
men receiving paying offices yet, sometime
in the future; if blackbirds “can” be white,
it may be not impossible for a government
offiicial to be honest. However, the story
may be incorrect.
	A New Jersey father named Akins, lately
had his son locked up for making an assault
on him, the father; and so fearful was he
that his son might escape confinement and
take his life, that he went immediately and
made his will and put his property in a
settled shape, as if in anticipation of being
assassinated, and that by the hand of his
own son, who is twenty-one years of age.
Such a position may be an interesting one,
but we defer comment.
	Some people are apparently much exer-
cised over a divorce suit of Ann Eliza Webb
Young “vs.” Brigham Young; but it does
not appear to affect him, or to disturb his usual
serene mode, any more than previous tricks
which other short-sighted filibusters, have
sought to play on him, have done. The
case is proceeding in as lawless a manner
as is common in cases of the kind wherein
“Mormons” are concerned in Utah, under
its present Territorial official government.
	The Spirit of war seems to be diffusing
itself boldly and implacably among the
aborigines of the country. Some of their
tribes are apparently inclined to assist in
carrying out the extermination policy, from
the treacherous and blood-thirsty manner
in which they are butchering one another.
Whether this state of Indian affairs, is very
much due to the strange and irregular
course which is being pursued toward them
by government or not, it is evident that no
good feeling can be engendered among
them by misrepresentations and unfulfilled
promises.
	An official trial of the various improve-
ments in cabs was made at the International
Exhibition in London, recently by a com-
mittee of which the Duke of Beaufort was
chairman, and Lord Somerset and other
prominent persons were members. After
some time had been spent in examination,
it was decided that there was no special im-
provement in any of the cabs presented for
the prize competition; but it must have
been a laughable sight to witness those
notable dignitaries jumping in and out of
the cabs as if for sport—that was the way
they tried them.
	Two young heroines have lately distin-
guished themselves by being possessed of
presence of mind and a knowledge of
swimming.  One of them, Miss Lucinda
Conklin, the daughter of a Long Island far-
mer, heroicly rescued a drowning man
whose boat had capsized near Eaton’s Neck
light, opposite her father’s residence. The
other, Maggie Elpick, eighteen years of
age, who resides near Greenwich and is the
daughter of an oysterman, bravely plunged
into the deepest part of the harbor and
swam to shore with an eight-year-old boy
who had lucklessly been overturned in
a boat. Sometimes, to know how to swim
is of more value than to have an understand-
ing of all the fine arts and to be a leader
of fashions besides.
	If Grace Greenwood means all she says,
we can see farther than she does in certain
directions. She says: “The fact is there
are too many of us women. And there
seems no relief through coming generations
except the heroic remedy of quietly putting
all female infants out of the way. If we ad-
mit the first statement to be correct, would
not a better method and a more just one be
to put the mothers out of the way and save
the infants the trouble of coming here but
to meet so hard a fate? Or better still, let
Platonic love be made a law not to be
broken. True, under either of these sys-
tems, male, as well as the female progeny
would be obliterated; which would hardly
answer the ends of creation. What then
remains to be chosen in reason, but the
social system so much talked of in connec-
tion with the name of “Mormons?”
	When newspaper men take occasion to
write squibs on as delicate a point as that of
religion, we do not consider it womanly or
expressive of refined taste or good judge-
ment for lady writers to seek to imitate an
example so unprolific of satisfactory results.
“The Balance” has evidently been trying to
“draw us out,” one means used being that
of repeating those little old funny stories
about the monkey that accidently got its
tail cut off, and then tried to persauade all
the other monkeys that tails were quite
unnecessary and it was much nicer to be
without one; and the sick child who—when
the deceptive doctor cried “don’t let Jonny
have all of that nice castor oil, mother, I
want some of it”—said the doctor was a
good man and he might have the whole
dose, and making comparisons between
them and our defense of the sacred marriage
system of the Latter-day Saints. To meet
our friend, “The Balance,” on her own
grounds, we could “show up” the other side,
of the question, in caricatures as ludicrous
and as sarcastic as her own, proving that
there are other sides to the picture. But
in treating of religion, we prefer a different
form of discrimination. And, farther, we
were early taught that retaliation was the
poorest kind of revenge; the lesson, perhaps
having more weight with us from the
fact that it was most forcibly impressed by
words and examples of our own dear, good
mother.
	Judge Henry R. Selden and Judge 
Hunt are occupying positions of very differ- 
ent characters just now. While the latter is
being severely criticised by a large portion
of the newspaper press, for the decision
rendered in the Anthony case, the following
is what the New York “Commercial Adver-
tiser” has to say about the former: “When
a jurist as eminent as Judge Henry R.
Selden testifies that he told Miss Anthony
before election that she had a right to vote,
and this after a careful examination of the
question, the whole question assumes new
importance, and Mr. Selden at once becomes
the central object of adoration by all the
gentle believers in woman’s right to the
ballot. And when the same able lawyer
advocates the cause of Miss Anthony in the
United States Courts, there is abundant
reason why other men, both lay and legal,
should put themselves in an attitude at least
of willingness to change their convictions
upon this topic, which now threatens to
take on very large proportions. The points
made in the argument by Mr. Selden are
that the defendant had a legal right to vote;
that even if no such right existed, if she
believed she had such right, and voted in
such faith, that she committed no offense; and
lastly, he argued, that she did vote in pur-
suance of such belief. The point that Miss
Anthony had acted illegally only because
she was a woman, was well put. Had her
brother, under the same circumstance, done
the same thing, his act would have been
not only innocent but laudable. The crime
was, therefore, not in the act done, but in
the sex of the person who did it. Women,
remarked the Judge, have the same inter-
est in the maintenance of good government
as men. No greater absurdity, to use no
harsher term, can be presented to the
human mind than that of rewarding men
and punishing women for the same act,
without giving women any voice in the
question of which shall be rewarded and
which punished. How grateful to Judge
Selden must all the suffragists be! He
has struck the strongest and most promising
blow in their behalf that has yet been
given.”


