SPLINTERS.
	Nilsson is said to be the daughter of a
Sweedish father and an American mother.
......The German troops have evacuated
every portion of French Territory except
the district of Verdun......Two criminals,
Nicholson and Hallerhan, were hanged at
Baltimore on the first inst......A railroad
war has been going on for some time be-
tween interested companies in New York.
......The recent death of the Duchess of
Inverness is announced............McVickers
theatre in Chicago claims to average seven
thousand dollars per week......Fires still
rage throughout the land, the cleansing of
the earth has indeed commenced......During
the last month the public debt was diminished
83,705,18......New Jersey is reported to be
afflicted with cattle disease......Cholera is still
reported prevalent in portions of Kentucky
and Indiana......A Methodist conference at
Hopkinsonville was recently broken up by
the event of a lady, in seeming good health,
falling dead as she knelt at the altar......An
Indiana man reckoned he could stand the
“drink,” on being acquitted for the murder-
ing of his wife......A writer on woman’s
dress, says, women dress to please the men,
and to please or spite each other......“No
company or good company” is an excellent
motto for all, especially the young........Mrs.
Abraham Lincoln is passing the summer at
St. Catherine’s, Canada......A Dundee lady,
Miss Baxter, has given 2,000 guineas to-
wards equipping a vessel to carry missiona-
ries to New Guinea......The Duke of Edin-
burgh, in becoming a “family man” wants
£25,000 per annum, to back him......South
Carolina is reported to be entirely under the
control of bad negroes and worse white men.
Mechanics and laborers employed on the
new post office in New York, are calling on
government for “back pay” which they con-
sider due them for the past two years for
their having worked ten hours per day
while the law demands only eight hours.....
A train of cars ran off the track in Lancaster,
England, a few days since, and was utterly
wrecked, killing and severely injuring forty-
two persons......The day following the double
excurtion in Baltimore, another murder was
committed in that city, by a Sweedish sailor
named Marker........Carthagena insurgents
have commenced war among themselves, and
those of Grenada have become discouraged
and offered to surrender to the Government.
......Hard stories are related of the Duke of
Edinburgh who is said to be of all the
Royal Princes, least esteemed and most
disliked......The health of Vice-President
Wilson is still reported feeble, but improving.
......Some of the sister States are jealous of
Pennsylvania, because the great Centennial
is to be conducted in Philadelphia......Much
excitement has been occasioned in Paris by
the meeting at Vienna of Francis Joseph,
the Counts de Chambord and de Paris,
representatives of the Bourbon and Orleans
houses, under favorable auspices, which is
considered a reconciliation of those houses.
......On the 5th inst. an accident occurred
on the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
railroad, a passenger train running into the
caboose car of a freight train, tearing the
latter to pieces and demolishing the engine
of the express, killing and injuring several
drovers and others......Two women, Mrs.
Hall and Mrs. Richards were lately killed
by hostile Indians at Camp Brown, forty
miles north-west of Atlantic City, W.T........
Most outrageous accounts are given of mob-
bing in Spain....The sufferers of the Portland,
Oregon, fire have been the recipients of the
proceds of a Long Branch grand reception
and promenade concert......A St. Louis wo-
man lately made use of a bucksaw in cutting
her own throat......The Cherokee Indians
are reported to have had serious difficulties
which are ending in bloody wars among
themselves......His Holiness, the Pope, pre-
dicts that the glory of France, and her
greatness shall be restored......The public
treasury officials solicit information concern-
ing the real cost of the Modoc war, which is
known to be large, but the war department
decline to give satisfactory announcements.
....Lady Blanche Somerset, an English mai-
den not yet eighteen, recently rode twenty
miles in one hour and forty minutes,
escorted by her father, to see a race, which
they were too late to witness......Miss Mary
Kueil, a graduate of the Westfield Normal
School, takes the position of principal of the
Springfield Training School at a salary of
$850, in the place of Miss Emeline Parsons,
resigned......In one week recently, the Bul-
lion in the Bank of England increased 
£3,007,000......Count de Paris is stated to
have announced his recognition of de Cham-
bourd as the only legitimate head of France.
......San Francisco has given liberal aid to
the Portland sufferers......Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, Beer Sellers get fined $100, cost of
court, and to spend six months in the house
of corrections.......The belief that the Yel-
low Stone river is navigable to the Big
Horn has lately originated with explorers......
A wrestling match for $2,500 aside and the
championship of America was commenced
between two men in New York lately but
after more than an hour's wrestling, was
stopped without a consumation because of a
dispute which arose......Richmond, Virginia,
has had a fierce storm of one hour which
destroyed many thousand dollars worth of
property.


