						A. A. PRATT.

	To the sisters of the 19th Ward Relief
Society, Salt Lake City.
   *   *  You are ensuring to yourselves
the reward promised to the faithful. The
blessings of the poor are upon your labors;
and that is a great satisfaction to those who
spend a portion of their time for the good of
others. This we never find to be a loss but
a constant gain. I often think, “to this end
were we created—not for self alone, but to
assist in making others as happy as our-
selves. Motives of this character, will
create a heaven for all.
	What a joyful time it will be for the
Saints when they can live by the law of
Enoch, and there will be no poor in their
midst. May the Lord hasten His time and
cut short His work in righteousness, that a
pure and holy people may be saved by His
just law.
	Journals and records from abroad testify
that the earth is groaning in wickedness,
and very soon its cup of iniquity will be full.
	What manner of Saints should we be?
Like the world filled with pride and vain
notions of fashion? If our righteousness
does not exceed theirs, shall we escape the
condemnation? 
	Even here in Meadowville, far away from
grog shops, my ears have been pained to
hear oaths from our young men, using the
name of God in a most blasphemous manner,
debasing themselves below the dumb beasts;
boys raised by parents belonging to the
Latter-day Saints! I ask myself, “Is there
no help for such conduct?” What an ex-
ample to set before the world! A people
professing to have received the only true
Gospel, having young elders given to drunk-
enness and daughters to pride and vanity.
	There must be too much indulgence and
too little reproof. Evil ought to be put down.
Liquor should be sold only for medicine.
More means should be given to the poor
Saints at home and abroad, more spent in
building Temples, and less in decorating
our own earthly tabernacles; more time
should be spent in improving the mind and
less wasted in idle thoughts, without weight
or substance.
	Love to all, from your affectionate sister
in the Gospel,
				Mary Ann Pratt.

Dear Editor Exponent:—Although far
removed from the “fountain head” of light
and knowledge, my interest in the great
work we have espoused does not diminish.
And I tender you my thanks for your most
excellent paper which duly comes to hand
and is read with much sastisfaction. I am
grateful to my Heavenly Father that the
day has dawned when the long misjudged
and misrepresented women of Utah have
opportunity to express their own views and
faith in regard to the principles of the
Gospel as believed and practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. When the world can
know, if it will take trouble to see, that we
have not only liberty of speech but also of
the press; and that we, ourselves, have
freely chosen the path we walk in, and
possess, many of us, independence and in-
tegrity enough to sustain it. For more than
thirty-nine years I have been a member of
this Church, and have never for one moment
doubted the sacred authenticity of its doc-
trines. Many years I have lived in polyg-
amy, and do not find it the great bug-bear that
many imagine it to be, but quite the reverse;
And I esteem it as a divine institution
revealed from heaven for the furtherance of
the work of God in the regeneration of
mankind and the redemption of the world.
A great deal might be said in defense of
this much talked of and often abused princi-
ple. But knowing that Truth will prevail,
and that God is at the helm, I am content
for the present, with having said this little.
						Arete.
George Town, Oneieda Co., Idaho.


A class in journalism, commencing with
the present term, has been organized in the
Iowa Wesleyan University. It admits the
best writers in the advanced classes, who
may wish to give themselves to editorial
writing. The class, it is said, has begun its
work with a good deal of enthusiasm


﻿“A logician and a swimmer,” says a
Persian story, “were in a boat together.
Said the logician to the swimmer, ‘Have
you ever studied logic?’  ‘I never heard
the name till now,' was the reply. ‘Alas!'
said the logician ‘then has half of your life
been drowned in ignorance!’ Just then a
squall came up. Says the swimmer to the
logician, 'Have you ever learned anything
of swimming?’ ‘Nothing but logic,’ was
the reply. ‘Alas! said the swimmer ‘then
the whole of your life is drowned!” The
moral of this, our teacher told us, is that
logicians sometimes get beyond their depth.
	“Go straight on and don’t mind enemies.
If they get in your way walk around them
regardless of their spite. A celebrated
character who was surrounded by enemies
used to remark, ‘They are sparks which, if
you do not blow, will go out of themselve.’
'Live down prejudice,’ was the Iron Duke’s
motto. Let this be your feeling while
endeavoring to live down the scandal of
those who are bitter against you. If you
stop to dispute, you do but as they desire
and open the way for more abuse. Let the
poor fellow talk—there will be a reaction if
you do but perform your duty: and hundreds
who were once alienated from you will flock
to you and acknowledge their error.”


