WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A correspondent of the Exponent, from
whom we had not heard for some time,
observing that we noticed her silence with
regret, privately sends us an excuse for the
same, which is well worthy of publication;
and we give it accordingly, under the above
heading:— 
	I have lost many a good idea since last I
had a pen in my hand, for want of opportu-
nity to transcribe it. But my time has been
very well employed in another way.
	Sister Elizabeth, my husband’s wife, has
been very ill, and she is living out of town
without any neighbors. Added to the
pain and dreariness of sickness was the
mother’s distress over the consciousness that
little worn garments were sadly in need of
being replaced, and the sewing machine
stood idle in the corner.
	I went to her assistance, helped to nurse
her, cook for the dusty laborers, and to
comfort the lonely, restless little ones; and
fitted and basted while her young daughter
sat at the sewing machine, until she, (Eliz-
abeth,) said quite a load was removed from
her mind.
While with her I cut nearly a dozen dresses,
and worked over eighty button holes, be-
sides mending and other sewing, and a
share in the housework; and I am as proud
of it as I could be of a flaming article which
would fix the eyes of thousands.
							L. L. D.

	Private letters from sisters Agatha A.
Pratt and Mary A. Pratt, written in Mea-
dowville, in the vicinity of Bear Lake
Valley, from which we make the following
extracts, have been politely committed to
our consideration by Sister Ann Neal, of the
19th Ward Relief Society.
  *  *  I enjoyed my journey to this place
very much. I traveled by rail from Salt
Lake to Evanston, distance one hundred
and fifteen miles, arrived about one p. m.,
started about two in the stage, traveled
thirty-five miles; making one hundred and
fifty miles in one day, which, I thought was
pretty good for Utah.
	I was much interested with the scenery
in Weber and Echo kanyons. Passing
swiftly through tunnels and over bridges, I
could not help thinking of the time when
our brethren were there so long, and what
an excellent chance they had to throw down
rocks if they had needed to in defence
against their enemies. And how the Lord
accepted of their sacrifices and delivered
His people.
	I have often thought that if I had not
had a testimony previously, that this was
the work of God, I should have known from
that time forth.
	The most beautiful sight on the journey
was the magnificent view of Bear Lake,
seen from the summit between Bear river
and Bear lake. In the foreground was the
beautiful clear bosom of the lake, the lovli-
est shade of blue imaginable; and in the
background, rose from the edge of the lake
high mountains, black with pine, while in
every hollow and crevice lay the pure white
snow, which, in the distance, looked like
gigantic marbeling. Taken altogether, it
presented to my view, one of the grandest
and most impressive sights I ever saw.
	This is a pleasant little valley, called
from its shape, "Round Valley," an excel-
lent country for stock raising, milk and
butter. It is much higher and colder than
Salt Lake valley. It is so cold now, (May
29th,) that we have to keep a good fire all
the time; and I sleeping in a wagon-box
need fully as much bedding as I did in the
winter.
	Every thing here is so quiet, the same
calm, unbroken monotony, every day alike
except Sundays, when the men stay home
from the fields. There are no meetings
held here, as there is no house suitable for
that purpose at present. We never fully
realize our blessings till we are deprived of
them, and I think meetings will seem good
to me when I get home again. *  *  * 
 					June 29th.  
* *  I thank God for such good, kind,
faithful co-workers as my dear sisters of the
19th Ward, Relief Society have proved
themselves to be. And I hope that their
interest will not slacken in the good work
in which we are engaged. For though we
may be able to do but little, comparatively,
still if we do that little willingly and dili-
gently, we shall have our reward. I often
think we have our reward in the satisfactory
knowledge that we are endeavoring to do
what is required of us day by day.
	I congratulate Addie upon her marriage
and sincerely hope she will be happy. I
honor and respect a young lady who bravely
and fearlessly enters into that order which
God has revealed for our eternal exaltation,
and I trust she will be enabled to acquit her-
self honorably each day she lives.
	My warmest congratulations and kindest
remembrance to Sister Louise, for whom I
entertain sincere feelings of love and respect.
And my best wishes for the continued suc-
cess of our household paper, the EXPONENT.
My daughter receives hers regularly and is
much pleased with its high toned senti-
ments.
	Kind love to all my sisters.
