THE SEX.

	The degree of A. B. has been conferred
upon Hannah E. Haley, by Bates College,
of Lewiston, Me.
	A Princeton, Illinois girl, died of grief
because her new spring hat fell into the
river and was ruined.
	Miss Linda Gilbert has become a liner
of the cloud of crime with silver, by found-
ing libraries for prisons.
	A Sister of Col. Mosby, of confederate
fame, has been appointed as clerk in the
dead letter office at Washington.
	There is no danger that Parepa-Rosa
will ever be shipwrecked on the ocean, for
she is always safe on the high C’s.
	Mrs. Berlah hunt, of Randolph, Mass.,
died, aged one hundred and four years.
She retained her memory to the last.
	Ella Wood and her father, of Dover, N.
H., were shot by Henry Jewett, recently,
because the lady wouldn’t be wooed by him.
	Norwegian girls who have been doing
kitchen-work in Iowa at $3:50 a week, are
hiring out to work in the harvest fields at
from $2 to $3 per day.
	A spightly girl in Fort Fdward, N. J.,
who engaged herself to a young man “in
fun," fainted on hearing that he had pub-
lished the same in a local paper.
	The trustees of the Chicago University
have voted to admit young women to the
full privileges of the university, on the same
footing as young men.
	An old woman in Maine crossed over a
bridge that was marked “dangerous” with-
out seeing the sign. On being informed of
the fact on the other side she turned about
in great alarm and recrossed it.
	A literary curiosity, “The Poems of
Mary, Queen of Scotts,” is in preparation.
The verses of this Queen, collected from
original and obscure sources, will be prefaced
with an introduction by Mr. Julian Shar-
man.
	The Wochenblatt, speaking of women
in Germany, says that the further they
keep themselves from politics the more
zealously do they mix themselves in
religious questions, and introduce into them
all the love and hate of which their nature
is capable.
	A prominent official in the Internal
Revenue Bureau states that if the female
clerks of that Bureau were permitted to
compete for the vacant $1,400 clerkships,
they would be appointed to two-thirds of
the vacancies over men employed in that
bureau.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, President of
the Evanston College for Ladies, has been
appointed by governor Beveridge, Commis-
sioner for the State of Illinois to the
“Woman’s Centennial Jubilee,” which is
to be held March 4, 1876, in connection with
the National Centennial Anniversary.
	Eleven thousand women signed an ad-
dress thanking Mr. Disraeli for his general
good offices to the Woman Suffrage move-
ment in England. In reply Mr. Disraeli
says he is so persuaded of the injurious
character of the present restrictions against
female participation in the franchise that he
hopes they will be removed by the wisdom
of Parliament.


