A NOBLE GIRL.

	Notwithstanding the fact that men re-
ceive higher wages for labor than women 
do, there are more girls laying up handsome 
sums of money than there are young men
who save a cent.
	Not long since, a delicate-looking girl sent 
home to Ireland money to pay the passage
to America of another member of the
family, who desired to come here to work 
and earn a home.  Said a lady to the girl:
“Why does not your brother send the
money? He has been in this country longer 
than you, and ought to have saved quite an
amount.”
	“Oh, ma’am, my brother would never
send it; he spends as fast as he earns, and
most always foolishly, in drinking and un-
fitting himself for work. I am willing to
deny myself clothing for the sake of the
dear ones at home.”
	“Do you share your wages with them all
the time?”
	“Yes, ma’am, I send money home every
three months—more than half I earn.”
	“Does your brother ever send any?”
	“Not much.  Once or twice since I came
to America, four years ago, he has sent ten
dollars.”
	“Are you not afraid if another brother
comes to this country, he will follow the
example of his older brother, and become
improvident and addicted to drinking?”
	“Sometimes that fear troubles me, but I
believe he will do better, for he was always
a wiser boy.”
	The girl is brave and noble. Quietly she
pursues her duties, and denies herself adorn-
ment and pleasures, although she is pretty, 
and may be supposed to gratify the vanities 
which almost all comely women possess. 
	The helpless ones at home are first in her
heart, and for their sakes she toils from year 
to year, perhaps thinking that sometime
the right man will come along who will 
marry and take her to his home.
	As the habits of young men now are
there is not one in a thousand worthy of 
becoming her husband, and the wisest 
thing she can do is to remain single, unless 
she meets one who has the manhood to resist 
the temptations that beset the youth of these
times, to steal away their senses with rum, 
and rifle their pockets of their wages.— 
“Elm Orlou.”


﻿A Kansas City mother lately flogged
a young man for marrying her daughter.


﻿When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor.  Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face, Arthur said solemnly,
“My mother has ’tended to me.”


