WHAT NOT.

	WHO is the oldest lunatic on record?—
Time out of mind.
	THE “home circuit”—Walking about with
a baby in the night.
	A PHILADELPHIA editor says: What
mountain most resembles the sound of a
sneeze?—Catarrh-din.
	IT is said that iron is a good tonic for
debilitated young ladies. This may be so,
but ironing is a better one sometimes.
	MATHEW VII. 5, New Translation.—“Hy-
pocrite, first take the splinter out of your
own eye, then will you see to take the mote
out of your brother’s eye.”
	IT is said that cream may be frozen by
simply putting it into a glass vessel, and
then placing the whole into an old bach-
elor’s bosom.
	A POET was annoyed when he found this
line: “Where are the dead, the vanished
dead?” published as follows: “Where are
the dead, the varnished dead?”
	A WOMAN of humor wonders why she and
her husband quarrel so often, for she says
they agree uniformly in the one grand point
—he wishes to be master and so does she.
	The liberty of the Press consists in the
right to publish the Truth with good
motives, and for justifiable ends, though it
reflects on government or individuals.
	A NEW JERSEY man having heard that
Columbus was in Ohio, immediately started
out West to interview the “old man” about
the voyage that resulted in the discovery
of America.
	“WERE you guarded in your conduct
while in New York?” asked a father of his
son, who had just returned from a visit to
that city. “Yes” sir: part of the time by
two policemen.”
	“MY dear, what makes you always
yawn?” the wife exclaimed, her temper
gone; “Is home so dull and dreary?” “Not
so my love,” he said, not so; but man and
wife are one you know; and when alone I'm
weary.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to his
daughter, “Be sure, my dear, you never
marry a poor man, but remember that
the poorest man in the world is one that
has plenty of money and nothing else.”
	A LITTLE boy, turning over the leaves of
a ladies’ book happened to get sight of a
pattern for a fashionable hat; whereupon,
he exclaimed rapturously! “Oh! lookie
here, what is it, a whale or a porcupine?”


