		  A BRIDE.
	
To-day thou enters, sweetest maid,
On untried ways of light and shade.
Hope beckons on; fear says “Beware,”
But love ennerves thy soul to dare
The vague alarms, the sighs and tears
That thickly throng the coming years.
 
Thy fair calm forehead, ’neath thy vail,
And thought’s fair impress, gleameth pale.
Thy deep, prophetic eyes look forth
To days which yet have not their birth,
And seem too scan the years to be,
With all that they shall bring to thee. 

Thou seems’t to see the care and pain,
Slow pacing in pale sorrow’s train;
Bitter bereavement. black deceit,
Sharp thorns spread for thy tender feet,
Anxiety’s keen dagger-thrust,
Hope turned to ashes and to dust!

Thy heart fails not, for thou cans’t see
The heavenly joys in store for thee;
The joy in duty nobly done,
In any spirit-conflict won.
In heart bowed to heaven’s will.
Though it decrees thee good or ill.

Faint ringing voices call to thee
From out the shadowy “yet to be,”
Which fill thy soul with music rare,
And promise sweet reward for care.
And the kindling light in thine earnest eye
Says there thou findest rapture high.

Thy woman’s utter faith in him,
Beside whose love all else is dim,
The hope that ever, side by side
Ye two may stand whate're betide,
Together be in weal or woe,
Make thy pure heart with courage glow.

And knowing well that good and ill
In just proportions, life must fill,
Thou asketh not unmingled joy,
Nor happiness without alloy,
But art content to kiss the rod.
Be pure and leave the rest to God.

The hour is spent—thy girlhood’s knell
Is tolled, as by a passing bell.
Thy bridegoom comes, with joyous eye,
To lead thee to thy destiny.
With smile half sad but wholly sweet,
Thou turnest thy heart’s lord to greet.

With graceful step, not swift nor slow,
Now to the nuptial alter go.
About thee broods such holy hush—
Though art too thoughtful e’en to blush.
With prayerful eye and changeless cheek
Thou dost in awe thy promise speak. 

Thou givest all thy girlish grace,
The saintly beauty of thy face,
The gentle heart unsoiled by sin,
All fair without, all pure within,
All possibilities so grand,
Together with thy virgin hand.

May he who wins so proudlyno w,
As proudly wear thy nuptial vow;
Be strength to thee when thou art weak.
And with thee life’s high purpose seek;
May, on eternity’s bright shore,
Ye twain be one for ever more, 
						 LU DALTON.
BEAVER, 14th July, 1873.


