The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] w I would not have you think that my coming in late and not being able to hear my esteemed and beloved friend and brother, Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve, indicated any lack of respect. I would have wished to have been here. I know his great power of uplift; and I would have felt happy had I been here to have received it; and, also, it would relieve me of an anxiety that I might be repeating what he may have said to you already in this session. Before, or shortly after I became a member of the Council of the Twelve, I was called to the office of the President of the Church, and he said, ""We have Brother Callis and Brother Cannon who are the Advisers to the Primary, and we have been thinking we need someone near the age of the Primary children as an Adviser."' You can imagine my anxiety when I was told about about two years ago that I was being relieved of that responsibility and was now being made an Adviser to the Relief Society. I don't know whether that has any significance or not, but at least it gave me a rather queer feeling. Before I accepted this responsibility, I gave Sister Spafford a rather negative or evasive answer. I had some other commitments that I thought might prevent my being here at this time, but after a little deliberation and a little shifting, she was called and was told that I would be able to accept the assignment. She replied, "Well, that's fine because his name is already on the program." Now that's how we get assignments from Sister Spaf- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ford. I thought you would be interested to know. I want to say to you that those of us who work closely with Sister Spafford and these counselors in welfare work, for more than thirty years as a matter of fact; Beehive Clothing Mills with the intricacies and the _ problems which you all know are tremendous as you meet the problems out in your wards and stakes; with the Correlation Committee; and the Advisory Board, which includes the heads of all auxiljaries and the Priesthood; and now as Adviser to Relief Society; and besides having the opportunity to have traversed some of the territory where President Spafford has gone and meeting women of renown from all countries, I want to say to you with all sincerity and with no attempt to "gild the lily," that I think we have had few women among us who have attained the worldwide stature and is so recognized as a power for good among the women of the earth as we have today in Sister Belle S. Spafford. If you knew what I know you'd know that I wasn't overshooting the mark by that statement. I have been asked to speak on a particular subject, broad enough, I'm sure, that a series of talks would not be sufficient to exhaust the possibilities— "The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom." So I shall narrow what I say about this subject under four different headings, and then make a few conclusions so that, if you care to, you can bring it all together and add to it as many others as you wish. The Lord declares what his work and glory is. To Moses, he said, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Since that profound declaration of Mother Eve in the Garden of Eden after the Fall, the exalted place of women in the plan of salvation was clearly defined. These words that I will quote to you now are said by students of the scriptures to be the greatest short sermon ever delivered, delivered by a woman. Now note what she says:.. Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient (Moses 5:11). Lehi explains and amplifies what Mother Eve said, when, apparently, his son Jacob asked for an explanation of the Fall and why evil was permitted in the world. Lehi made this explanation: And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy (2 Nephi 2: 22-25). If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers. Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has here, then, been reaffirmed. Will you think of this, in this day of mass hysteria over birth control by artificial means? It might be well for Relief Society mothers to consider the role of woman in the great plan of salvation as the Lord has explained it. The woman's role involves a partnership, hopefully with a noble son of God. It was the apostle Paul who declared this interdependence between men and women to be achieved only in holy wedlock. Here are a few of his quotations: ''Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God" (I Cor. 11: 11-12). "... But the woman is the glory of the man" (I Cor. 11: 7). "Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it.. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself" (Eph. 5:25, 28). "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh" (Matt. 19:5). The sacred nature of this partnership is nowhere better explained than by our own Pres- 6 ident David O. McKay, and is now quoted in our 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, if you want to check this when you get home, page 63. This is what we're teaching your husbands in their weekly Priesthood meetings. I read this to my wife and she commented, "'But why don't you teach this to the Priesthood rather than to the sisters?" Well, we want the sisters to know what their husbands are being taught, and if their husbands are not going to Priesthood meeting, they will see that they get there to hear these lessons taught in Priesthood meeting. Now this is what the President said, and you can understand what my wife meant: "Love is the highest attribute of the human soul, and fidelity is love's noblest offspring." Most, if not all, of the virtues are the natural fruit of genuine love. President McKay has given inspired counsel regarding the physical dimension of the love relationship between a man and his wife. He said: "Let us instruct young people who come to us to know that a woman should be queen of her own body "Second, let them remember that gentleness and consideration after the ceremony are just as appropriate and necessary and beautiful as gentleness and consideration before the wedding.. Chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood, and self-control is the source of true manhood, if you will know it, not indulgence... "Let us teach our young men to enter into matrimony with the idea that each will be just as courteous and considerate of a wife after the ceremony as during courtship" (Melchidezek Priesthood Manual 1966, page 63). Now you have companion lessons to these in the Relief So- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ciety, don't you see? And you, having been schooled in the Relief Society, your husbands receiving this kind of a lesson in the Priesthood, the meeting of the two lessons~brings an ideal Home Evening lesson, where father and mother, with their growing-up sons and daughters, are taught these fundamental principles. The curse of infidelity is plainly set forth also by President McKay in this same Priesthood manual that I'm talking about. He says: As teachers, we are to let the people know, and warn these men - and this is not imagination - who, after having lived with their wives and brought into this world four or five children, get tired of them and seek a divorce, that they are on the road to hell (Ibid., pp. 638, 64). That comforts me a little, because I quoted something to a certain lovely sister who was having trouble with her husband, that no woman was expected to follow her husband to hell, and I am reinforced when President McKay made this statement: It is unfair to a woman to leave her that way, merely because the man happens to fall in love with some younger woman and feels that the wife is not so beautiful or attractive as she used to be. Warn him! Nothing but unhappiness for him and injustice to those children can result (JIbid., page 64). I saw what I think was the pinnacle of understanding in this respect when the president of the American Medical Association was here to give an address before our Utah Association. They, the auxiliary to the Utah Association, had arranged for some entertainment for his wife, but she became ill and could not accompany him, and the sisters, of course, were very disappointed, and one of them asked him, "Is your wife just as beautiful as she always was to you?" And he answered, "Yes, just as beautiful, but it does take her a little more time." Sometimes as we go throughout the Church we hear a husband and wife who come to us and ask that because they are not compatible in their marriage, they having had a temple marriage, wouldn't it be better if they were to free themselves from each other and then seek more congenial partners? And to all such we say, whenever we find a couple who have been married in the temple who say they are tiring of each other, it is an evidence that either one or both are not true to their temple covenants. Any couple married in the temple who are true to their covenants will grow dearer to each other, and love will find a deeper meaning on their golden wedding anniversary than on the day they were married in the house of the Lord. Now don't you mistake that. The duties and purposes of the Relief Society in this regard have found expression from one of the Presidents of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, in which he emphasizes another phase of the woman's role as a member of the Relief Society. Now I have spoken of the one phase as a creator in company with her husband. Now note what President Joseph F. Smith says: I will speak of the Relief Society as one great organization in the Church, organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, whose duty it is to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition. I expect to see the day when this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church but that day will be when we shall have women who are not only imbued with the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and with the testimony of Christ in their hearts, but also with youth, vigor and intelligence to enable them to discharge the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon them. Today it is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties - domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, pp. 386, 387). I was startled upon one occasion to have announced by a certain women's'. Organization that one of our past Relief Society presidents had graduated from the Relief Society into this other women's organization. Let there be no uncertainty in the minds of our Latter-day Saint women as to the Relief Society being the greatest of all women's organizations. There is no other greater organization on the face of the earth for the Latter-day Saint. Wife or mother. Sister Spafford has so kindly spoken of my daughter Helen. (This isn't on the script, darling.) When she was a teenager, the patriarch gave her a blessing. Her older sister had received a blessing in which she was told that she would be a missionary, a great missionary, and _ this sweet daughter was told that she would be a shining light in the great Relief Society program of the Church. Carefree, careless, both of them; they may have placed their own individual interpretations, but now the wheels of time have moved on. This other, yes, who knows, she is now an angel, maybe, in the realms on high, is one of the great missionaries. In the temple today, one of the Brethren bore witness to having sat in meditation and having recalled an experience in the Logan Temple when a sister in deep sorrow had come to him because of the loss of her companion, then a few days later she came back and was all in ecstasy, never happier in her life than now, and he said, '""What's happened to change you?" "The last few days," she said, "T went to the assembly room in the Logan Temple. There were some other couples in that room, and as I sat there, I heard the most heavenly music. Then, after it was ended I said to the people there with me, "Did you hear that music?" They all said, "Yes, we heard it." In my mind, as he spoke, [I thought of my own sweet missionary daughter. In my mind's eye she could have been accompanying that kind of heavenly choir because she majored in music to be the great missionary that God apparently intended her to be. Woman's place in training her family is the third phase of this The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom work that I want to mention. ['ll quote a few significant scriptures and then draw some obvious conclusions. The Lord said: But, behold I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me; For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own pleasure, that great things may be required at the hands of their fathers (D&C 29:46-48). Now what is the age of accountability and what are those great things that God requires of the fathers of children, which, by inference, means mothers as well, during this period before little children begin to become accountable before the Lord? Now the age of accountability, the Lord, in another verse of revelation, says is eight years of age. No one can be received into the Church unless he has arrived. At the age of accountability. Parents are admonished to have their children baptized when they are eight years of age and teach them the fundamental principles of the gospel, and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins and receive the laying on of hands. Children should be taught to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord, and so on. Now the conclusions and logical deductions. Great things are required of fathers and mothers before Satan has power to tempt little children. What are the great things? Have you ever thought of that? Before Satan has a chance to lay hold on a little child, it is the responsibility of the parents to lay a solid foundation by teaching Latter-day Saint standards by example and by precept. In other words, to you and to the sisters over whom you preside, it means the making of a career of motherhood. Let nothing supersede that career. Do teach mothers to take full advantage of the Family Home Evening lessons each week. I was down to Cedar City just after Family Home Evenings were provided with a full course of lessons for each week. Why that startled the Church to think that now we had prepared a lesson that the parents, each week, could teach. Six hundred fifty thousand manuals were sent and put into the home of every parent, so no one could say, "We didn't have a manual," or "We couldn't afford one." They were put in the hands of every parent. And I was anxious to see how we were getting off at this stake conference. I asked if they would call in some in whose homes the family home night lessons were being taught, and they called a young Singing Mother from out of the chorus upon the stand. This mother said they had just begun their lessons when she and her husband were asked if they would be dance instructors until after the dance festival. Now you have heard of things like this happening. As they began to try to find a night when they could get all these participants in the festival, every night was preempted except one, and you can guess what night that was. It was the night of the Family Home Evening, that had supposedly been held sacred for Family Home Evening. Well, they said to the children, "We guess that until the festival is over, we'll have to give up the Family Home Evening." So, with regrets, they went to the task of this dance festival, and a few nights thereafter they came home late, weary from their exertions. They were awakened around daylight the next morning by the sound of their children's voices in the front room downstairs. When they went down the children were all dressed, and there was a blazing fire in the fireplace. The fifteen-year-old daughter, the night before, had engineered the children in preparing the preliminaries for an early morning breakfast which consisted, as I remember, of peeled potatoes which, when allowed to stand overnight had taken on a darkish hue—black potatoes. When the _ parents asked what this was all about, they said, "Well, Mother and Dad, when you said you couldn't find a night for us to have Family Home Evening, we counseled together and decided, then, that hereafter we were going to have Family Home Evening at five o'clock in the morning. We are all here now. Breakfast is ready. It will take only a few minutes; now give us the Family Home Evening lesson." And as this sweet mother stood there and the tears streamed down her cheeks, she said, '"'As I sat down to that breakfast of blackened potatoes, they were the best tasting potatoes that I have ever had in my whole life, and I resolved that never again was I going to let anything take precedence over my responsibil- 10 ity in teaching my family on a Family Home Evening." Now, you teach the women and mothers to do likewise. Mother's first sacrifice is to become a mother. I was going to do something today, Helen, but I don't know whether I dare or not— just a quote from our oldest daughter when she had her first baby. She was in a hospital in California, and I was going to read a bit from Helen's sixteenyear-old letter to her mother in an attempt to demonstrate in our own family how the great influence of mother had _ been passed on to two lovely daughters who, in turn, now are passing it on to ten grandchildren. Presumably those ten children, if the record is kept up, will go on and on throughout the generations as these, my family, become part of my eternal kingdom in the world yet to come. I don't think I'll try to say what I thought I would read to you. My feelings are a little bit tender today. Pain and suffering coming in or going out of the world seem to be a part of the plan, and mothers were promised that in pain and travail they would bring forth children. You remember Mother Eve's promise. She and her daughters would be saved in child bearing. Saved! I thought. That meant protected so they would go through delivery of their babies, unscathed. ['m not so sure that that's what it means now, but I know that if mothers will do their part, even though it costs their lives, that their eternal reward in our Father's celestial world will be certain. I was up at Blackfoot, Idaho, The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom I guess I shouldn't have said that, but I'll have to go through with it now. I had made a blunder when I found that there had been assignments to husbands and wives that took them both out of their home at the same time, and left their children. Unattended. I scolded a bit over the pulpit, and one of the counselors scolded me between sessions by saying, 'Well, we'll have a whole stake resignation after that talk." I thought I'd better repent. So, in the afternoon session, I was sitting by the Relief Society president of the stake, a lovely mother, now in her late sixties. She had raised a family of nine, and all of them while she was presiding in one capacity or another. She had been in Primary, in the MIA, and now president of the stake Relief Society. And without knowing what she would say, I said to her, 'Sister, I wish you would get up and tell these folks how you've been able to raise a remarkable family, all of them now married in the temple, and still be able to carry on in your Church work as-you are."' I couldn't have written the script for Sister Christensen's talk any better than she gave it. She said, "Well, first, I followed the example in raising my family of my own wonderful mother. I merely followed the example she gave us, so I tried to raise mine as she had raised us. Second, I have a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should have a Church activity just as he had. So when we were called to a position, we would sit down with the bishop or stake president, and we would try to work it out and see if, while daddy's responsibilities were taking him out of the home, I could be there with the children, and when my responsibilities took me out of the home, daddy could be there with the children." She said, "That's the way we have worked together so that our children were never left without father or mother." Finally, she said, "Third, I have an unshakeable testimony of the divine mission of the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ." I say to you, there are the three hallmarks of great motherhood in the training of children in a family home. And now, finally, a fourth role of mothers is the building of a home here and laying a foundation for a home in eternity. What is a home? There are some rather apt quotes which indicate what I want you to get. "Home is a roof over a good woman." But if the roof is lacking or the woman is lacking, it isn't any home. It takes both. "Home is the seminary of all other institutions." "The most essential element in any home is God." "A man is always nearest to his God when he's at home and farthest from God when he is away." (This could be true to a degree, that in the home, there is the good in-. Fluence of a true wife and mother.) "Home is the place when you go there they have to take you in." That's the boy or girl who stays out late until you've worried yourself sick and comes trooping in at one, two, or three o'clock in the morning, but, after all, that's his home, that's her home. Yes, home is the place that when you go there, they have to take you in. Now just a word about another subject. President Joseph F. Smith said something else that I've carried in my mind these years, something about the importance of owning your own home. Now we're drifting away from that today. And I want you to get the importance of what he said here. It was early the rule among the Latter-day Saints to have the lands so divided that every family could have a spot of ground which could be called theirs; and it has been the proud boast of this people that among them were more home owners than among any other people of like numbers. This condition had a good tendency, and whatever men said of us, the home among this people was a first consideration. It is this love of home that has made the saints famous as colonizers, builders of settlements, and redeemers of the deserts. But in the cities there appears now to be coming into vogue the idea that renting is the thing. Of course, it may be necessary as a temporary makeshift, but no young couple should ever settle down with the idea that such a condition, as far as they are concerned, shall be permanent. Every young man should have an ambition to possess his own home. It is better for him, for his family, for security, for the state, and for the Church. Nothing so engenders _ stability, strength, power, patriotism, fidelity to country and to God as the owning of a home - a spot of earth that you and your children can call yours. And besides, there are so many tender virtues that grow with ownership that the government of a_ family is made doubly easy thereby (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, page 305). Now a home, I would impress, not only a home here, but building a home for the eternity. This is a phase of it, and I shall close with this, with one or two obvious conclusions. The Lord said: 12 And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise.... They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever (D&C 132:19). Now, the Prophet Joseph Smith, commenting on this scripture, explained: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 300-301). Our First Presidency in our latter days has said: So far as the stages of eternal progression and attainment have been made through divine revelation, we are to understand that only the resurrected and glorified beings can become the parents of spirit offspring. Only such exalted souls have reached maturity in the appointed course of eternal life; and the spirits born to them in the eternal worlds will pass in due sequence through the several stages or estates by which the glorified parents have obtained exaltation (The First Presidency, June 30, 1916, "The Father and the Son," page 8). Now the conclusions. Woman has within her the power of creation in company with her legal and lawful husband here, and if The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom sealed in celestial wedlock, may have eternal increase in the world to come. Woman is the homemaker in her own home, and an exemplar to her posterity in the generations that succeed her. Woman is a helpmate to her husband and to render him more perfect than he otherwise would be. Woman's influence can bless a community or a nation to that extent to which she develops her spiritual powers in harmony with the heaven-sent gifts which she has been by nature endowed. If she does not forfeit her priceless heritage by her own willful negligence, she can be largely instrumental in safeguarding democracy and downing a would-be tyrant. Year in and year out, she may cast the aura of her calming and refining influence to make certain that her posterity will enjoy the opportunities to develop to their fullest potential their spiritual and physical natures. Now this is a rather sensitive thing that I shall close with. We had one in high station in government circles who has made a suggestion which was highly applauded, according to a great educator whose words I'm going to quote. It made the suggestion that all young persons in this country, boys and girls, perhaps, should be required, whether in peace or war, to give a year or two of their lives in some kind of national service. Then this wise educator said this. Now don't you quote me as saying this, but you say that I said, he said that: There are a lot of folks who think that it is just as vital for a young Los Angeles woman to get married and rear a family with respect to law and rights of men as it is for another young woman to work in a poverty program of some sort. The young engineers who develop techniques in our industry are as important to the strength of this country as the special assistants who inhabit the big Federal agencies. There are weeks in this city, in fact, when after a plethora of conferences and meetings, such as the recent one on the status of women, the residents would gladly barter half a dozen status officials for one mother who wants more than anything to bring love and beauty into the lives of her children, or they would trade a whole conference in Washington for one grandfather who would round up the _ neighborhood children and take them on a hike. (Dr. MAx RAFFERTY, California State Superintendent of Public | Instruction.) Now that's, unquote, all of that I quote for you to think about. So I close with a prayer, God render our wives, our sweethearts, our mothers even more perfect in order to hold the bearers of the Priesthood, under their influence, to a truer course of happiness here and eternal joy in the world to come, for which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.