Christmas Begins With a Tree Miss Gold thought of her own brother and his family so far away. "Are they coming Christmas Eve?" Betty asked, suddenly finding herself hopeful above any other thing that the young family would not forget. "Oh, You know young children don't care about the older generation anymore," Miss Pool said. Suddenly, Betty wanted to make it seem even more like Christmas for Miss Pool, because there seemed to be nothing but a double disappointment. And what if the family did come and the house was so drab? She thought of the tree. Of course. That was the logical thing. For only a brief moment did she hesitate. "Miss Pool, I have something out in the car—your brother's family would love it when they come oh and besides, I brought these cookies." The woman in the bed raised her eyes at Betty's sudden burst of good will. "Can you wait for me just one moment while I run out to the car?" "Cookies? Oh, why, yes, of course.... Thank you—how thoughtful!"' It took only a moment to drag the tiny pine into the bedroom and set it up on its little wooden stand, propping it with the sewing basket and some books. "Miss Gold—you needn't do that... Why, I haven't had a tree in a long time." Betty felt a sudden childish feeling of warmth rise from her heart to her cheeks. The woman's eyes were actually sparkling. "YT believe I have some orna- ments from years gone by," the sick woman said, almost trying to hide a new excitement she was ashamed of feeling. ''Down there in that lower drawer. No, not that in the chiffonier... Yes there." Just as the little tree, with its one string of lights, got a spattering of tinsel, the doorbell rang. It was Miss Pool's brother and his wife and three little girls, hesitant and quiet at the sight of the dark house and Miss Gold's presence at the door. Betty had never really been so happy to see anyone, and this feeling astonished her, because this was the family of someone else. She led them to the back room, and Miss Pool could not completely hide her joy and gratitude even though she tried to look stern as she said, '"'I thought you had forgotten me." The little girls immediately went over to the tree and tugged at their mother's hands. "TI didn't know Aunt Roberta would have a Christmas tree," one of them said questioningly. "Qh, it's so pretty." "Christmas came _ to house, after all." "We brought you some presents, Auntie." Betty's heart felt unusually warm and trembling, and she felt tears well up in her eyes. Without saying much, she would leave them now while Miss Pool was passing out the cookies. She moved toward the door and pulled on her coat and gloves. "Goodbye now," she said as inconspicuously as possible. "Oh, just a minute,'' Miss Pool said loudly, so that everyone in the warm room, standing around your 42 the bed piled with packages and the little glowing tree, turned to watch Miss Gold. "T just wanted to thank you, Miss Gold, for doing these notebooks. Nobody knows but a schoolteacher, I suppose, how much time and energy went into all of that. I know—and I am surely grateful. And thank you— well, just thank you for everything. I hope you can come again during the holidays." Betty's heart thudded, as she nodded goodbye to everyone and made her way out the door and -, eu Ai & — awe > re '': _ ad, <N +. " A J. Aa % into the crisp winter air. That was what she had needed—somehow to be able to give, and to have the someone who needed that giving, to appreciate it. Christmas might begin with a tree, but it was made up of love. Betty left the warm house with the laughter of the little girls and the sound of paper wrappings being torn off of packages. With a glad heart, she gathered _the other boxes of cookies on the front seat and drove to what she knew would be a most wonderful Christmas party, a wonderful Christmas Eve, and also a warm holiday.