FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication-in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, , Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The for , page 50. I Tit yy: | PT MTC TTT = Cache Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers "Singing Into Spring'' Concert March 31, 1966 Front row, standing, left to right: Neva Simonson, accompanist; Fredonna Dixon, soloist; Carma C. Spencer; Margene H. Liljenquist, organist; Katheryn P. Gibson, President, Cache Stake Relief Society; Bernice C. Baugh, chorister; Hazel E. Larsen, Second Counselor; Alice C. Smith, member, General Board of Relief Society; Una H. Wuthrich, First Counselor; Lucille S. Binns, Secretary-Treasurer; Melba Johnson, member, Cache Stake Relief Society board. Sister Gibson reports: " 'Music is the speech of the angels,' was expressed by Carlyle, and was affirmed by the voices of the Cache Stake Singing Mothers in their formal concert of joyful and spiritual music. 'Singing Into Spring' was the theme of the pre-Easter concert directed by Bernice C. Baugh, in which 130 women participated. Accompanists were Margene Liljenquist and Leona M. Pritchett. Seven ward choruses prepared two numbers each, with their own directors and accompanists, and the combined wards sang three selections. An inspirational narration was composed and spoken between numbers by Carma C. Spencer. Guest soloist was Fredonna Dixon, accompanied by Neva Simonsen. A vocal solo was sung by Camille S. Zahmel of Cache Stake. A violin duet was played by Lois Brown and Mira F. Baker, and a vocal sextette was also featured." Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 2, 1966 Clarice M. Cooper, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports. "A very impressive spring concert was presented by the Singing Mothers on Saturday, April 2, 1966. A variety of music was beautifully sung, some spiritual, some patriotic, and some light. Outstanding special numbers ' were given by Blanche Christensen, soprano, and Beryl Smiley, contralto. A trio, composed of Carol Gray, Marie English, and Florence Parsons, accompanied by Elnora Gwynn,-and a reading by Nedra Potter completed the delightful program. "Hazel Perry, stake music director, and Lenore Grundman, stake organist, spent many hours organizing and directing the program, and the Singing Mothers were faithful in coming to rehearsals, which was apparent in the excellence of the performance. After the program, cookies made by the stake board members, and punch were served. "The concert was given as a means of making a little money for the stake Relief Society, with the wards receiving twenty-five per cent of the money from the tickets which they were able to sell. Everyone was cooperative and appreciative, and we feel that the performance was highly successful, both in promoting sisterhood, and in helping the stake financially." North Sacramento Stake (California) Presents Musical Dramatization "The Journey," April 1, 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: '"*The Journey' was used with permission from Melvina Allen and Geraldine D'Addabbo, East Mesa Stake (Arizona), who wrote the original script. It portrays the progression of one of the daughters of our Heavenly Father from pre-existence into mortality and back into eternal life. Our North Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers (approximately fifty) sang eleven selections, under the direction of Jeannine Eborn and Lynda Bradley of the Relief Society Stake Board. Among the selections rendered were the following: "To a Child,' 'Stand in Holy Places,' 'Oh, That I Were an Angel,' and 'Eternal Life.' Members of the stake were invited to bring their families, and the program was spiritual and uplifting for all. Approximately 400 attended." Liberty Stake (Utah), Eighth Ward Relief Society Presidency and Homemaking Leaders at Display, August 29, 1966 Left to right: Eulalia Jeppsen, homemaking leader; Leah Mecham, Counselor; Myrtle Richins, President; Arinia Cameron, Counselor; Irene Wagstaff, chairman of the art committee; Gertrude Gillmore, Secretary-Treasurer. Nettie E. Stout, President, Liberty Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture represents a display of beautiful articles completed by a Relief Society where the majority of the members are seventy years or older. In the past five and a half years this society has made and sold 300 quilts, thus keeping alive the art of quilting. Besides Utah and the neighboring states, these quilts have gone to Japan, Germany, Old Mexico, New Zealand, Hawaii, Arizona, California, Michigan, and New York. The unique part about this quilting society is that the work of cutting, appliqueing, sewing, and preparation prior to the actual quilting, is done by homebound sisters. They prepare ahout, three quilts a month, and through these assignments fulfill the desire to be needed and wanted. Other homebound sisters crochet and embroider for the _ society. Through the leadership of Sister Richins, this ward organization has grown to a membership of 105. And to visit their meetings is to experience the true love of sisterhood." Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California) Presents 'Relief Society in Panorama'"' May 21, 1966 "Woman Suffrage - 1888,' presented by Berkeley Ward, left to right: Faye Lloyd; Margaret Williams; Roma Sabine; Afton Whitehead; Pat Moore; Marjean Moore; Gerry Cook (hidden); Annette Jensen. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-