SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4—"When Ye Do What | Say" (D&C 82:10) Reference: ''On Earth and In Heaven"' (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967 - Lessons 23 and 26) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Objective: To point out that personal commitments are involved in the ordinance of setting-apart for service in the Church and in partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. FOLLOW-UP If there is a convert member in the class, suggest that she relate what baptism by the restored authority of the Priesthood means to her. Otherwise, have a member relate briefly the reaction of her family members to the responsibilities involved in the ordinance of baptism. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues discussion of gospel law as manifest in revealed ordinances performed through the authority of the Priesthood. In general, the ordinances considered are familiar to Relief Society women; so familiar, that certain aspects relative to their importance and function as a binding covenant, often may be overlooked. The following questions relate to the two ordinances considered in this lesson: (1) How may the ordinance of setting-apart benefit a woman who has been appointed to render Church service? (2) How is the ancient law of sacrifice associated with the sacrament of the Lord's Supper? (3) What personal commitments are involved in this ordinance? SETTING-APART Setting-apart is a phrase familiar to all members of Relief Society. Many have been involved in this gospel ordinance designed for the bestowal of authority to act in a specified capacity. This ordinance, performed by the laying on of hands by proper Priesthood authority, follows the individual's acceptance and approval, by common consent, of a particular Church assignment. With the exception of the General Authorities and other general officers of the Church and some of their associates, persons who are set-apart are authorized to function within clearly established geographical boundaries (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 26, page 194). Setting-apart is not merely a statement to the effect that the individual has been assigned to a particular Church service; it involves the bestowal of authority, and also the obligation and re- sponsibilities which pertain to the particular calling. The officiating Priesthood authority, when and as directed by the Spirit of the Lord, may also give instruction, counsel, and a blessing to guide the individual who is to render the special service. Thus the ordinance of settingapart takes the general form of prayer. The individual being setapart is called by his (her) full name and the statement is made that the ordinance is done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the authority of the Priesthood. Executive officers of auxiliaries are offically set-apart by the appropriate Priesthood authority. Thus stake Relief Society officers, after having been interviewed, approved, and sustained, are set-apart by the stake president or his authorized representative. Officers called to preside in a ward capacity are set-apart by the bishop or his authorized representative. ""The policy of the Church is that there is no need of setting-apart teachers in the auxiliaries" (Ibid.). DISCUSSION 1. In what way does a calling to special Church service set one apart? 2. What general obligations does a woman assume, who is set-apart for a particular position in Relief Society? 3. What responsibility does a Relief Society member have toward the officers in the organization? 4. In what ways is followship as important as leadership? THE PRINCIPLE OF PRESIDENCY Closely associated with the delegation of responsibility, for which individuals are set-apart 68 is the principle of presidency. In relation to Relief Society, we may say that each member of a Relief Society stake or ward presidency, is given a _ specific calling, with attendant responsibilities. The president is the head, her responsibility is to lead, to preside, to make final decisions. Her counselors are called to give support and to counsel. The effective president will, in most instances, make important decisions only after counseling with her counselors. Thus harmony and oneness of purpose are achieved. Counselors should recognize the jurisdiction to which their calling entitles them. They will not only be loyal to the president, giving counsel and support, but will respect the position and decision of the president. This principle, carried into the home, means that the father who is the head of the home, who counsels with his wife, appreciates her support and counsel. The wife, on the other hand, will recognize and honor the position of the husband as head of the home. Thus unity of purpose, oneness of effort, and harmony may be the happy result. FOR CLASS CONSIDERATION 1. Name attributes which encourage harmony in recognizing the principle of presidency. 2. How important to the harmonious and effective progress of a ward Relief Society are the support and appreciation of the members of that Society? "THIS DO IN REMEMBRANCE OF ME"' (Luke 22:19) In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the sanctity of the Sabbath is emphasized in the following words: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from _ the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day (D&C 59:9). Thus, included in the commandment to keep the Sabbath day holy, is the offering up of personal sacraments. "A sacrament is a_ spiritual covenant between God and man"' (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 172). In the sacrament known as the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, believers covenant with the Father always to remember his Son, witnessing their willingness to take upon themselves the name of Christ, and to keep his commandments. The ordinance of the sacrament, thus, is the ritual, ceremony, rite, or ordinance, through which members of God's earthly kingdom make and renew solemn covenants to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. The sacrament consists of partaking of bread and water—which has_ been blessed and prepared for that purpose by the authority of the Priesthood— in remembrance of the Lord's sacrifice. The covenants which are made as part of the ordinance are some of the most solemn and sacred found in the gospel (Melchizedek Priesthood manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 172). OF OUR FIRST PARENTS "One of the first great spiritual experiences received by Adam after he became mortal was associated with the law of sacrifice. Of our first parents the scriptural account says that the Lord gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstLesson Department lings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord. And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore (Moses 5:5-8) (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 28, page 178). THE LAW OF SACRIFICE Beginning with the first man and continuing for four thousand long years, the God of Heaven directed his people to offer sacrifice in similitude of the future atoning sacrifice of his Son. All of the patriarchs, prophets, and saints of four millenniums offered the firstlings of their flocks on their sacrificial altars, beasts which were without spot or blemish. These sacrifices signified that the Lamb of God, by the shedding of blood and through his own vicarious. Sacrifice, would atone for the sins of the world (McConkie, Bruce R., Doctrinal New Testament Commentary, Vol. 1, Salt Lake City, Utah, Bookcraft Publishers, 1965, page 718; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, pp. 172- 173). SACRIFICE IN ANCIENT AMERICA A knowledge of the law of sacrifice was not limited to the Jews of Palestine. The Nephites in ancient America likewise were taught that an atonement for the sins of man would be made. Before the birth of the Savior, Amulek, explaining the need for and testifying of the future atonement, said: For it is expedient that there should be a great and last sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, neither of beast, neither of any manner of fowl... But it must be an infinite and eternal sacrifice. Therefore, it is expedient that there should be a great and last sacrifice; and then shall there be, or it is expedient there should be, a stop to the shedding of blood... (Alma 34:10, 18; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 174). Later, when the resurrected Jesus visited the Nephites, he confirmed the passing of the ancient law of sacrifice in the following words: And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings. And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost (3 Nephi 9: 19-20; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 174). IN THE MERIDIAN OF TIME Relief Society women know that the sacramental service is in remembrance of the atoning sacrifice of Christ. Some, however, may not know that it was instituted in the meridian of time by the Savior, "'to replace the agesold system of sacrifice" (Ibid.). As sacrifice was thus to cease with the occurrence of the great event toward which it pointed, there musi needs be a new ordinance to replace it, an ordinance which also would center the attention of the saints on the infinite and eternal atonement. And so Jesus, celebrating the Feast of the Passover, thus dignifying and fulfilling the law to the full, initiated 70 the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Sacrifice stopped, and sacrament started. It was the end of the old era, the beginning of the new. Sacrifice looked forward to the shed blood and bruised flesh of the Lamb of God. The sacrament was to be in remembrance of his spilt blood and broken flesh, the emblems, bread and wine, typifying such as completely as had the shedding of the blood of animals in their days (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, pp. 174-175). SACRAMENT OF THE LORD'S SUPPER The ordinance of the sacrament, as we have it, had its beginning in the meridian of time and was introduced by the Savior himself. The place was Jerusalem. The time: during the celebration of the Feast of the Passover, just preceding the crucifixion. The Feast of the Passover, sacred Jewish memorial festival, was established at the time of Israel's deliverance from EHEgyptian bondage. At the time of the Savior, people came to Jerusalem from far and near to participate in the annual commemoration of "the outstretched arm of power by which God had _ delivered Israel after the angel of destruction had slain the firstborn in every Egyptian home and had mercifully passed over the houses of the children of Jacob" (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, Edition 13, page 112). Rituals, specific and detailed, were associated with this solemn celebration. On the day preceding the eating of the paschal (Passover) lamb, the selected sacrificial "lambs were slain within the temple court, by the representatives of families or companies who were to eat together; and a portion of the blood of each lamb was sprinkled at the foot of the altar of sacrifice the slain lamb, then said to have been sacrificed, was borne away to the appointed gathering place of those by whom it was to be eaten" (Ibid. Page 593). Some of the disciples inquired of Jesus where they should make preparations for the _ paschal meal. He instructed Peter and John to return to Jerusalem, saying:... Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guest-chamber where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished; there make ready. And they went, and found as he had said unto them; and they made ready the passover. And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer (Luke 22:10-15). This upper room to which Jesus and his disciples came to eat the last meal of which the Savior would partake before his death, was the setting for the introduction of one of the most sacred of gospel ordinances. Jesus appears to have observed the essentials of the Passover procedure, although we have no record that all requirements with which tradition had invested this sacred memorial were followed. It is certain, however, that the very presence of Jesus, soon to be crucified for the sins of all men, Lesson Department his prophetic words prefacing his betrayal, and the introduction of the ordinance in remembrance of his sacrifice, set this particular paschal meal — this the Lord's Last Supper — apart from all feasts of the Passover. INSTITUTED AMONG NEPHITES During his brief ministry among the Nephites, as recorded in 3 Nephi, the risen Lord introduced the sacramental ordinance and gave instruction regarding its continuance among those who would believe. And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done, even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you. And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have shown unto you. And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my spirit to be with you (3 Nephi 18:6-7; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 177). Although the blessings pronounced upon the bread and upon the wine (water) were not recorded in the New Testament, nor do we have a record that they were given to the Nephites on the occasion of the introduction of the ordinance recorded in 3 Nephi, they were, however, "siven to the Nephites and were inserted in the Book of Mormon account centuries later by Moroni (Moroni, chapters 4 and 5)" (Ibid.). Revealed to the Latter-day Saints, we find these prayers of blessing on the sacrament in the Doctrine and Covenants (Section 20). A careful reading of these 7] prayers reveals both solemn commitment and wonderful promise to all who worthily partake and who fulfill the requirements of "this sacred ordinance. CLASS DISCUSSION 1. Is the sacrament an ordinance of salvation or of blessing? 2. What personal commitment does one make as she partakes of the sacrament? What blessings are to be received? Do you believe (judging from your own attitude and practice) that during the passing of the sacrament, the majority of adults think specifically of the Savior and his sacrifice? Discuss. 5. What does it mean to "renew our covenants" by partaking of the sacrament? Mo Only when we bring to the sacrament of the Lord's Supper a broken heart and a contrite spirit, a willingness to be known by his name and to keep his commandments, are we promised (through: this ordinance) that the Spirit of the Lord will be with us. As a woman magnifies her service in a particular calling, she will realize the blessings to which the ordinance of setting-apart entitles her. I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10). FOR HOME DOING 1. Analyze your own attitude toward the sacran-ent of the Lord's Supper. Try to make this ordinance more meaningful to you as an occasion for renewing your personal covenants, and by considering the commitments which involve you. 2. Help your children to understand the importance of the sacrament. 3. Evaluate the worth of your consistent attendance at sacrament meeting. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS In presenting this lesson emphasize in the discussion how these ordinances directly affect each sister's life and, in turn, the lives of those who live with her. (See Lesson Helps.)