[Column 2]
	When the exodus from Nauvoo came and
persecution raged in Illinois, Brother McGee
Harris and wife left their home and took up
their journey westward to the Missouri river;
leaving behind the two elder girls, who had
married and remained at their homes in
Illinois. When the Saints started west
from Winter Quarters to the valley Brother
and Sister Harris and family came in Presi-
dent Brigham Young’s company. In the
same company came ’Squire Wells, who
upon that famous pilgrimage made the ac-
quaintance of Miss Martha G. Harris, a very
modest, amiable and attractive young girl,
then just sweet sixteen. Brother Harris
was what we Eastern people called well-to-
do, and after reaching here finally settled
permanently in the Twelfth Ward in Salt
Lake, on the corner of what is now Second
South and Sixth East, where he resided up
to the time of his death. 
	Miss Harris was married to ’Squire Daniel
H. Wells September 20, 1849,—it was a 
very congenial and happy union, in all re-
spects they seemed admirably suited to each
other. Their children were Martha Deseret
Wells (Mrs. Charles Read), born April 18,
1853, Emily Harris (wife of Apostle Heber
J. Grant), born April 22, 1857, Heber Man-
ning Wells, first Governor of the State of
Utah, born August 11, 1859, Joseph Smith
Wells, manager Utah Light and Railway
company and First Counselor in the Presi-
dency of the Ensign Stake of Zion, born
May 25, 1862, Hermon Chapin Wells, born
September 8, 1868, Edna Margaret Wells,
born July 5, 1869, (Mrs. Thomas Sloan),
Briant Harris Wells, born December 5, 1871,
Captain 29th U. S. Infantry, stationed now
in Manila, Philippine Islands. 
	Mrs. Wells at the time of her decease left
twenty grandchildren (three had died), and
two great-grandchildren.
	Mrs. Wells’ life has been one of peace and
contentment, she was a model housekeeper,
and attractive home maker, pleasant and
companionable, and one to be trusted in all
the relations of life, true and constant in
friendship, and firm and unwavering in the
faith of the Gospel and in all the principles
therein revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith in this dispensation. 
	When the Relief Society was organized in
the 13th ward in Salt Lake City, she was
called to be a teacher, and made her first
visits in that capacity in company with Sis-
ter Bathsheba W. Smith; some years after
when Sister Martha Wells moved to the 12th
ward, she was chosen treasurer of the Relief
Society in that ward and held the office un-
til she moved from there to the 20th ward. 
In whatever position Sister Wells was called
to act, she always gave perfect satisfaction
to those associated with her. She was a
fine needle woman, and an adept in all
domestic arts, and an excellent manager
of household affairs. Her home was her
heaven, and she adorned it by her cheer-
ful presence and her smiling countenance, 
and motherly methods of ministering to
those who came within the scope of her
influence, and who had claim upon her hos-
pitality. 
	She lived a beautiful, serene and even
life, and she has gone to meet her loved ones
behind the veil, her noble husband, to whom
she gave her undying affection, her children
her beloved Dessie, her own baby Hermon
Manning, the son of Heber M. Wells, and
Byron, the son of Joseph Wells, to both of
whom she had been a second mother,
brothers and sisters and her own father and
mother, who died in full faith of the Gos-

[Column 3]
pel, both ripe in years and in good works,
and others whom she knew and loved here. 
	A rather remarkable feature in Mrs. Wells’
life is that she has left thirteen motherless
grandchildren, of four families; this seems
strange in one family and not a very large
family, for she had only six children that
grew to man and womanhood. 

	The funeral of Sister Martha Wells was
held at the home where she died, on Thurs-
day, May 14, 1908, at 2 p. m., Bishop T. A. 
Clawson of the 18th ward in charge of the
services. The singers rendered the beauti-
hymn, 
		Farewell all earthly honors,
and prayer was offered by Elder Richard W.
Young.
	Elder George D. Pyper sang as a solo,
	O, my Father thou that dwellest, etc. 
	Elder Orson F. Whitney and President
Joseph F. Smith made brief addresses full
of inspiration and of hope and consolation
to relatives and all who mourn their loved
ones. The singers gave a closing musical
exercise,
	“When the swallows homeward fly,”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Seymour B. Young. 
	Mrs. Wells looked beautiful in the white
casket in her white robes. There were very
many lovely floral emblems; tokens of love
and affectionate regard. 
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The pall bearers were six of the sons of
the late President Daniel H. Wells,
Rulon S., Gershom B., Louis R., Melvin D.,
Victor P. and Charles H. 
	The grave was lined with flowers and
covered with an exquisite blanket of the 
choicest flowers. 
	The grave was dedicated by Elder An-
thony Ivins. The exquisite hymn,
		Rest on the hillside, rest,
was solemnly rendered beside the grave.


