[Column 2]
its peerlessness, in short it might be called
a symbol of triumph and of victory; and is
styled classically “queen of flowers.” To
choose which verse t’were best to quote, or
which conveys most exquisiteness of senti-
ment, one cannot tell as one reads the poem
over and over, but we will venture to give
one or two verses in this random writing.
“In this full time, this hey-day of the year,
	My soul en rapport with the fairness wrought
Here with the queenly rose doth own the sphere—
	All earth possess, in luxury of thought.”
	The writer closes this delicious poem with
the verse which is probably the climax of the
poet’s idea.
“With honeyed wealth of life the moments teem,
	And heart to heart melts in delicious swoon.
Can aught of fear or strife disturb love’s dream,
	Made perfect by the roses, gift of June?”
	Mr. Lambourne speaks gracefully of the
Chrysanthemums’ lives beginning when the
others die:
“Strange lives that come to make a round com-
		plete;
	Blossom and flower surviving numberless;
’Tis but a world all pallid now they greet,
	Companionship to keep with weariness.”
In harmony they come with this drear morn,
	When wrapt in chilly mist all nature grieves,
Delivers to the year her latest born,
	Nipt by the hoar frost, hid by the drifting
		leaves.”
	Mr. Lambourne requested the writer to
read the poem “Cicidas in Home Sweet
Home,” when alone at night; we informed
him we had already read the poem when
alone very late at night, when the full moon
was bright, since then it has been read more
than once, and we think that the author has
drunk deep draughts at the Pierian spring.
“What dearer moment can the future give,
	Than this wherein a thousand transports
		crowd?
The loves of dead ancestors once more live.
	Within my heart, they cry to me aloud.”
“The Fields Lethean are this moment mine,
	As though my soul emerged from out the wave,
By that bright shore, where starry clusters shine,
	The Isles of Peace, that Lethe’s waters lave.”
“A sweet forgetfulness from self I find.
	Lost ’mid the cadences of verse and song;
The overflow from one glad heart combined.
	With gleeful clamor of night’s winged throng.”
	Mr. Lambourne may feel justly proud of
the book the production of one of Utah’s
geniuses, and believe that the coming gener-
ation of the sons and daughters of the vales
of the West, born amid the grandest scenery
on the American continent, with a goodly
legacy of knowledge bequeathed to them
through the efforts of the founders of this
commonwealth in establishing educational
institutions, may be able to fully appreciate
the classical works of such poets as O. F.
Whitney, Alfred Lambourne, and Henry W.
Naisbitt, after they are gone, as they do
not seem to while they live. One wonders
why dead poets are more widely honored
and recognized years after they have passed
away, than while they sojourned among
their contemporaries.
