IN MEMORIAM.
	Written on the death of Mrs. Leo Hafen, who
yielded up her young life on the altar of mother-
hood at her home in Provo, Utah, on March 21st,
1908.
	Sometimes the mystery of life and death are al-
most beyond our wisdom of understanding. The
poignant grief, the heart-ache, the helplessness,
the loneliness, the vacancy, all leave one so bereft
we cry out, “Why are we called upon to bear a
cross so heavily laden with sorrow?” Yet there
we pause. And the answer comes: “The Lord
giveth, and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the
name of the Lord.”
	How blessed when He gave to the dear father
and mother the sweet daughter He has now taken
to His home. How blessed when He gave the
sisterly companionship to the loving sister whose
grief is so great. How blessed when he gave the


lovely wife to the young husband. How sad
when he called from the borderland of mother-
hood, the precious mother and babe. True, the
dear companionship is severed, the light, the sun-
shine, the lovely presence, all that gave promise
of a future joy and happiness in the home, have
faded from our vision. But that is not the end of
all those blessings. Time will teach the lesson
her pure life has left—the lesson of love, Christian
faith, purity of purpose and devotion to her
Church, her home and to those in whose spiritual
welfare she labored. Mrs. Hafen was a tower of
strength and happiness among her friends and
neighbors, doing much good in Church and Sab-
bath School work. And while she rests from her
labor, her good work, her gentle influence, will
go on to the glory of her faithful guidance and
righteous teaching. She sleeps—she sleeps—
under thousands of beautiful flowers she sleeps
well.
Spring with your garlands and wealth of per-
		fume,
	Soft sunny glance of the warm summer day,
Bear her pure spirit from the dust of the tomb,
	Up to the stars of the beautiful way.
So we have given her early to rest,
	When the warm sunshine is lingering and
		sweet,
When the pale willow droops low o’er her breast,
	And the green mosses creep over her feet.
She sleeps not forever, we must be strong—
	Strong in our toiling and brave in our strife.
Letting her memory keep us from wrong,
	Guiding us on to the river of life.
						LOUISE COULSON.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


