[Column 2]
excellent talk on the Bloodless War between
Norway and Sweden, giving the history of
these countries back for several centuries,
showing how the kingdoms came to be unit-
ed, and the reasons which made a disunion
without enmity possible. Mrs. Jensen gave
a fine paper on Christmas in Norway.
	Miss Eva Jensen presented a pretty pict-
ure, dressed in the peasant costume of Swe-
den.
	Music, recitations and refreshments, added
to the pleasure of the many guests.
	The February meeting was held at the
Exponent office, and was devoted to cele-
brating the birthday of its Honorary Presi-
dent and Founder Mrs. E. B. Wells. A paper
by Mrs. R. M. Fox, referred to Mrs. Wells
womanliness, and the noble rolls of wife-
hood and motherhood.
	One of Mrs. Wells’ daughters, Annie Wells
Cannon, paid a touching tribute to the truth
of the statements of Mrs. Fox.
	Mrs. M. J. Snow spoke of Mrs. Wells’ loy-
alty to every form of women’s work, for the
up-building of humanity, also as to her work
as a suffragist, and in the Woman’s Clubs.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder (but recently returned
from her extended trip abroad, whither she
had gone as a speaker to the Quinquennial
Congress, held in Berlin, June 1904) spoke
especially on Mrs. Wells’ work in literature,
referring particularly to her work as editor of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT; and of their being
together in England, whither they had gone
as members of the Quinquennial Congress,
held in London, June 1899.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen, Mrs. M. J. Snow, and
Miss Sarah Eddington were received as
members.
	The March meeting was held at the home
of Mrs. Florence Critchlow; Mrs. M. J. Snow
was elected secretary. The Club was called
upon, by the State Federation of Club’s, that
each member contribute a book on American
history or literature, to aid in replacing the
library, which was destroyed at Sunnyside,
by fire in November last.
	A sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow, was
ably given by Mrs. Roundy.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen spoke of the patriotic
fervor, expressed in Miss Snow’s poems.
	Mrs. Lillie Maeser spoke of her as poetess,
especially referring to her most popular
poem, “O, My Father.”
	The April meeting of 1906 was held at the
home of Dr. E. R. Shipp. Selections from
the writings of the poetess Hannah T. King
were read. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave an in-
teresting sketch of her life referring to the
noble stature and bearing of this gifted
woman, and of their intimate friendship
which had lasted over many years. The
death of Gladys Woodmansee, a member of
the Club, a bright sparkling, precious woman,
was announced. Also the death of Mrs. E.
J. Stevensen. A motion was made and car-
ried that the committee appointed by the
Club, draft resolutions of respect. Mrs. Alder
for Gladys Woodmansee, Dr. Shipp, Mrs.
Stevensen.
	The September, 1906, meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. Francis. Mrs. Wood-
mansee was to have been guest of honor,
but was too ill to be present. A number of
her old friends, girlhood friends in England
were present, among them Mrs. Phebe Sloan,
and Mrs. Margaret Young, were present by spe-
cial invitation. Many incidents of interest
were related, the flood of years rendering up
many treasures of the past. The poems read
during the evening were selected by Mrs.
Woodmansee herself, yet all regretted her

[Column 3]
enforced absence from the bosom of her
friends.
	The October, 1906 meeting of the Press
Club was held at the home of its President,
Mrs. E. H. Jensen. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
called to the Chair. A report of the year’s
work was read by the President, and Mrs.
Zina Y. Card was received as a member.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the George
Washington Memorial; also said that the
shares held by the Press and Reaper’s Clubs,
gave us an interest in the Woman’s Memo-
rial Association at Washington; also stated
that Utah was the first state in the Union,
that paid a subscription toward the George
Washington Memorial, and that it was col-
lected from the children of the Public Schools
of Utah. An original poem, “What is the
Best for us to do?” was read by Dr. E. R.
Shipp. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow spoke at some
length of her visit to the State Council
of Women at Ohio, which numbers some
800,000 women, some of whom make this
their life work, spending fortunes in the
cause.
	The club officers for the coming year were
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President; Dr. E. R.
Shipp, First Vice President; Mrs. Maria
Francis, Second Vice President; Mrs. Flor-
ence S. Critchlow, Rec. Secretary; Mrs. E.
H. Jensen, Treasurer.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that a new office
be created by the Club, that of Historian,
and named Mrs. L. D. Alder for the office,
as she has written the Club History for the
first decade. Moved and carried that this
motion be acted upon later, which was done
agreeable to Mrs. Wells’ suggestion.
	This closed the history of the Club for the
past five years. Many of its old members
still attend, and give of their best efforts for
its up-building. That the Press Club is dear
to “Aunt Em’s” heart, goes without saying,
and that true and lasting friendships have
grown out of the associations formed in its
members by delving into the world of
Thought and Events. “Birds of a feather,
flock together” was said of old. We have
proven it to be still true, and the reason,
that we see and understand alike, the re-
quisite of the true friendship.

The pen is mightier than the sword,
The written than the spoken word,
The written-unborn ages sway,
The spoken, breezes drift away,
So full Thoughts store house, it o’erflows,
Yet ’tis not less for all one knows;
Outstretch thine hand, Thought’s flowers are fair,
Pluck all thou wilt, none less are there.
