THE ALPS.
	The Alps, the majestic Alps! School
days come to mind, when we studied about
the Alps, the snowy peaks of Switzerland.
How far away those days seem, as we sit
here in Zurich’s boulevard, and see them
glistening in the setting sun! Then gradu-
ation day rises in memory. Thought long
and deep has been bestowed on that all-im-
portant essay, the crowning victory at the
end of High School life. We see the fair-
haired girl—our own close friend—advance
to the front of the platform and read
	“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
Her little white gloved hand holding the
dainty paper, perceptively trembles. She
is conscious that every eye is upon her; that
everyone there is going with her on that
journey over the Alps.
	So young, so fair, how could she sense that
life was like the Alps, towering spectre-like
far over there?
	Zurich’s lake is washing at our feet; the
sun glints on the ripples made by the pass-
ing craft. These must be the little worries
of life, vexations, and not easily overcome.
	How much lies between them and the
silent Alps!
	It is so pleasant to sit here, the city’s
noise sounding like a far off babble, lulling
the mind to rest. But this is not the way
to cross the Alps, to find Italy. No! We
must climb up those freezing heights, past
the glacier and the snow. Now down deep
defiles, where the unwary may stumble or
fall, though clinging to bush or bough.
Shall we go down to darkness and despair?
Despair? No! There is a beacon light,
though we may catch but its slightest gleam.
Upward, on we go, past the rubicon. The
height is scaled, the snow in many cascades
and water falls flows down the mountain
side, and we have found Italy. O, land of
sunny skies art thou the all and all?
	Vividly rises the school scene, the flutter-
ing white dress of the wondering girl, the
poise of the sanguine boy.


“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“A fresh memorial to vanished youth
	The sweet girl graduate, with flower face,
Her eyes so full of trust, her heart of truth,
	Looking o’er all the world to find her place.
Her theme holds weighty words, and thoughts so
		staid,
	A travesty on life in phrase austere,
But youthful confidence is unafraid,
	And gladness vibrates in the tones so clear,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The joy of triumph and of proud applause,
	Sweet floral offerings, the music’s stir;
Fair, sunny slope of youth! O, let us pause,
	And linger in this girlhood’s glade with her,
Ere she climbs those steeps of life,
	Where womanhood with all its mystery lies.
Remember ere you go to meet its strife,
	O, maiden innocent, grown strongly wise—
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The essay soon will yellow grow with time,
	The years will string their rosary of tears.
Weary and footsore we the hills must climb,
	And stumble o’er the stones of cares and fears.
The mists of doubt will all the landscape veil,
	The summit lies so very far away;
The feet may falter and the courage fail,
	The stern, pale lips, will quiver then to say,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“O, when the hands that helped you up the slope,
	Shall loose the clasp, we cannot always keep,
When in the night of pain, you upward grope—
	Blinded by tears, with lagging footsteps weep.
Then let your girlhood’s maxim cheer your
		heart—
	A peal ef joy through all life’s sad refrain—
Though here we live and lose and meet and part,
	There is a height where pleasure conquers pain.
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
	The reading is ended; the sweet melody
is borne on the air. The school scene fades
away, and we are still beside the living
waters of Lake Zurich, suddenly awakened
from the dream of long ago, the Alps a liv-
ing reality, wonderful, yet unknown, stretch-
ing far away over there. 
	This side the Alps, the ice and snow,
	The other, foaming waters flow;
	This side forbidding, silent, grand,
	The other Italy’s fair land. 
	Impassable may seem the height,
	The dazzling snow may blind our sight,
	Beyond, the flowers and verdure teem,
	And Italy, our life-time dream. 
