IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief, that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy, and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere. Those who in
the decree of an All-wise Father, have been
called upon to part for a brief season, with
one most truly loved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to human- 
ity. Queenlike, regal in her mien, yet with-
al so gentle, just and kind, the, innate beau-
ty showed the exquisite touches of the Mas-
ter’s hand.
	She was as the sunbeam breaking through
the cloud. Her pure, chaste life was ever
an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As
a sister, loving, beloved and revered. A
wife, the helpmeet, companion, and coun-
selor of her husband. A mother, tender,
true, wise, ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones, we feel to say: Whereas, our Father
in His wisdom and love has called her
home to labor in a more exalted sphere,
may you be able to bow in humble submis-
sion to His divfne will. And we earnestly
pray that on each aching heart may be
poured a healing balm, even the comforting
influence of the Holy Spirit, that you may,
even now see the silver lining to the cloud
which overshadows you, and be able to say:
“The Lord gave and the Lord taketh away;
blessed be the name of the Lord.”

O, loved ones, with thy braised and bleeding
		hearts,
	Couldst thou have seen the messenger that
		came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
	Hadst heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
		name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
		stood,
“It is the Lord; do Thou as seemest good.”

But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
	Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears: 
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
	Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears,
Not tears nor sob prevented, but laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
		sound.

And so the angel came unseen, unheard
	By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
	Where harp and crown await on yonder side,
She saw, heard, and recalled her former home.
And smiling, whispered faintly, “Lord, I come.”

We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss,
	We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled
	Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peaee unto thy soul;
Can heal thy wonnds, and make thee truly whole.

And so we pray that strength be given thee,
	That heavenly dews may on thy soul descend;
That through the clouds, blue sky may yet be
		seen;
	Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend. 
When rightly tempered both by heat and wave,
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
