[Column 2]
	Elder George F. Richards had been very
interested in the reports, and especially in
providing wood for the poor. The questions
that have been asked have a tendency to
make us review our lives, and see if we are
living up to the laws of the gospel, if we
have the favor of the Lord we must keep his
commandments; suggested that the several
presidents of the Relief Society be in a posi-
tion to know what portion of the officers
keep the word of wisdom.
	Elder Francis M. Lyman said if a mother
has her tea the daughter will have her tea
when she becomes a mother; we can as well
cultivate the habit of drinking water as tea.
Do not neglect the opportunities we have of
doing good to our neighbors and families.
	Sister Adeline Smith was set apart as first
counselor to President Robison, by Elder
Francis M. Lyman.
	Closed by singing “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc. Benediction by Elder
Alonzo A. Hinckley.
	Conference continued in an evening ses-
sion with much good instruction from the
sisters.
			MARINDA BENNET,
						Secretary.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The twenty-ninth quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
in the Lehi Tabernacle, April 17th, 1908.
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 o’clock with the usual
exercises.
	President Standring, who had recently
been through a very severe sickness was
very thankful to meet her brethren and sis-
ters in conference again. Was grateful for
the faith which had been exercised in her
behalf, The Lord had raised her up. Was
thankful that she had been spared yet a lit-
tle while longer to fulfil the purposes of the
Lord. Spoke earnestly on the principle of
prohibition, and urged the sisters to uphold
the hands of the brethren in carrying out
this principle which would be a blessing to
all the community.
	The reports from the wards given by the
presidents were excellent. The sisters are
alive to their duties, teachers are up and
doing, the lessons on faith are appreciated
very much and the sisters report a fuller at-
tendance on the day the lesson is given.
Wheat is in good condition and our amuse-
ment committee are doing a good work;
and we are visiting the poor and lonely and
those who live at a distance, for we carry
substantial comforts as well as the spirit of
the gospel to cheer and comfort them.
	Song, “Dear heart we’re growing old.”
Sisters Clarke and Whitmer of Lehi.
	President Abel J. Evans congratulated the
Society. “Our missionaries give wonderful
testimonies of the work in their different
fields of labor, and it is a theme of rejoicing.
There is a great work for us to do in teach-
ing and instructing our children. It requires
a strenuous effort on tbe part of parents to
institute a watch over their boys,” he was
in full favor of prohibition and is devoted
to the cause of temperance; “it belongs to
us in following out the commandments of

[Column 3]
the Lord. We should be a light to the
world. Our faces should be set against
crime.
	Sister Mary Ann Winters of Salt Lake
City, was pleased with the silent testi-
mony of this beautiful building. Rejoiced
in the blessings of this kingdom, of which
she had received a full share. She knew
that this was the true Church and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Sister
Winters said she had attended the first
meeting of young people held in Nauvoo,
and was thankful she had lived to see the
sisters organized in these various associa-
tions. Urged the sisters to throw their arms
of protection around the children. Remind
them of their birthday when it is time for
them to be baptized.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer.
Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises, four of the local presidents report-
ed their wards as doing well, and advancing
in the principles of the gospel and doing all
the good they could.
	Sister Kate Allred of Lehi 2nd Ward gave
the lesson on faith in Jesus Christ from the
Stake plan, followed by Sisters Kate All-
red and Josephine Brown with references on
the same subject, and testified to the benefit
that these lessons are to those who study
them.
	Song, “I know that my Redeemer lives,”
Lehi 4th Ward R. S.
	President Stephen L. Chipman had en-
joyed the reports and also the singing. We
can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord as much
from such beautiful singing as when listen-
ing to reports or instruction. Faith is stronger
than sight is proven by Jesus reply to
Thomas when He said “Blessed are those
who see and believe, but more blessed are
those who believe and see not.”
	Bishop Hindley of American Fork was
pleased that the sisters were taking up the
study of the Life of Christ. There is so
much to learn of His life, and the more we
know of it the more we feel as though we
want to live a better life. Referred to in-
stances where God’s voice was heard to re-
cognize Jesus as His Son. How thankful
we should be that God visited this continent
and introduced His Son to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Many of our parents heard
the voice of the Good Shepherd in a foreign
land, and were converted to the gospel at
its first sound. I sometimes think we
brethren do not appreciate our mothers and
our wives as much as we should. Let us
show our appreciation of them while they
are still living, and not wait until they are
dead and gone. Scatter flowers of kind
words and actions while they are still with
us.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi spoke of the capa-
bility of the Relief Society to perform the
duties. The spirit of the gospel is what makes
us what we are, it gives us joy and peace.
We all have our failings, and it is our duty
to learn as much as possible to overcome
them. The Lord has revealed this principle
of temperance and prohibition years ago to
our Prophet. It is the young mothers that
should come to these meetings and learn
how to take care of their children. Prayed
God to bless us and enable us to do our
duty.
	Benediction by President Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


