[Column 1]
		A BOOK OF VERSE.
	Alfred Lambourne, poet and artist has
another new book surpassing in style and
value, in all respects, perhaps, any of the
smaller volumes of his, previously given to
the public; the book must be classed as
artistically beautiful, and it is in keeping,
so far as its general appearance is concerned
with his story of “Plet” and “Poems of
Holly and Easter Lilies.” The new book
has the simple title “A Book of Verse,” but
the contents are in every respect superb.
	The frontispiece is an exquisite portrait
from life of the author, and is in every de-
tail perfect, and in every touch and expres-
sion. It is the work of M. M. Young, art-
ist and sculptor, a native son of Utah, and
a genius in his line of art. The title page
and inscription are by Lee Greene Richards,
whose name and fame are becoming well-
known in Utah and abroad; they are very
unique, and give the impression of some-
thing classical. Illustrative designs here
and there in the book are by the two artists
who are doing much in helping to make
Utah famous, J. L. Harwood and Lee
Greene Richards. These designs are dainty
in fineness and add much to the artistic
taste of the book itself, and to the delight
of the readers of the poetic effusions so ex-
quisitely wrought into verse pictures.
	The Contents given by the author are:
I “Three Season’s Flowers,” [dedicated to
Lillian]. II “Cicidas In Home Sweet Home”
[To Minnie.]
	We regret that we are not competent to
give the author’s own ideas of the illustra-
tions, but as we gaze upon them we find
they speak to us in a language we are incap-
able of putting into words, it is the lan-
guage of the soul.
	The first poem in “Three Season’s Flow-
ers” is the lilac, and one must read it to
get an idea of its soulful significance, it
speaks volumes to a lover of this garden
shrub, when in flower. The writer can only
quote a verse or two of what appeals most
tenderly to her:
“With moisture strange the lilacs fill mine eyes,
	A gladsome dew'that glistens into tears;
Entranced I stand, lost in a sweet surprise,
	While joys divine come back from out the
		years.”
	Another verse we unust quote which
struck the writer as quite an original idea
and very fanciful.
“O, what the secret that these blossoms hold—
	Which they unto the primal purpose owe?
O, what the occult life these leaves unfold.
	From golden age that antedated woe?”
	It appears that the author has selected
three flowers to express beautiful and pure
thoughts, and every line contains thought-
food for the student of literature.
	The second season, “The Rose,” midsum-
mer blossom, the favorite flower of many peo-
ple and indeed of nations, one might say; its
richness, its splendor, its ravishing beauty,

