[Column 1]		
		IN MEMORIAM. 
MARTHA GIVENS HARRIS WELLS. 
“The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
	And lighting the sleeping brow;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint
	To the glory she dreameth now.”

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep;
She has fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth her rest and sleep.”
		*	*	*	*	*
“The golden dawn of the day of God
	Shall smile on the sealed eyes;
The trumpet’s sound shall thunder around
	The dreamers shall wake and rise.”

“The night is over, the sleep is slept,
	They are called from the shadowy place,
The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land,
	And gaze on the Master’s face.”

	It is scarcely possible to write satisfac-
torily of those very near and dear, as there
seems no language in which to express what
one feels, concerning the departed loved ones. 
Yet a record must be made of the life, that
the memory may be preserved and facts for
reference, even though the task is difficult. 
Certainly Sister Martha Wells deserves most
honorable mention among the pioneer wo-
men of Zion, and of the West. Sister
Martha G. H. Wells who passed away at
the residence of her daughter, Sister Emily
Wells Grant, Tuesday, May 12, 1908, at 3
p. m., was a woman greatly beloved by her
family and friends, and widely known and
highly respected by the Latter-day Saints,
and many not of the same faith. Her im-
mediate family almost idolized her; she
was one to lean upon, always the tender, 
loving mother, and grandmother, solicitous 
for the welfare of each one and for all.  It
had fallen to her lot several times to care
for the motherless families of her sons, who
had been called to part with the mothers of
little children, and babes, and these little
ones received the most loving and watchful
care from her. 
	And indeed she was in herself most lova-
ble and trustworthy, a faithful wife and de-
voted and most affectionate mother. She
served with untiring patience and willing-
ness, all those who needed her care as
though they were her very own. 
	Martha G. Harris was born in Nashville,
Tenn., March 27, 1832. Her father was McGee
Harris, her mother Mary Givens, they were
married in Tennessee, but had been born in
Kentucky. They had quite a little family
when they decided to move to Illinois,
bought a farm and settled in Marion, Wil-
liams Co., Illinois, in the year 1840. It was
there the Gospel came to them by Elder
Levi M. Stewart, who was instrumental in 
converting and baptizing them. Little
Martha was baptized by Elder Levi M. Stew-
art when ten years old in 1842. She was
the third child of her parents, two sisters,
Sarah J. and Margaret, were older, and
Mary Ann, now Mrs. Casper Whittle, of
Richmond, Alexander, William, Eli, and
Emily C., Mrs. Alexander Bullock of Pleas-
ant Grove, were younger. 

