[Column 2]
marriage of Brother and Sister John Mc-
Donald. The Presidency of the Church
and Presiding Bishopric, also several Apos-
tles were specially interested in the affair
and had much to do with making it a sort
of testimonial of love and respect to the
bridegroom and bride of fifty years, and
also as an appreciation of favors and kind-
ness bestowed upon President Joseph F.
Smith and other brethren (some of whom
have passed away since) in a time when
they stood greatly in need of friends who
where true and reliable. The guests began
to assemble in the old fashioned parlor in
the Lion House about 4 p. m.
	The happy couple in whose honor the af-
fair was given were there to be congratu-
lated looking very buoyant and shaking
hands with all who offered congratulations
and good wishes. The bride wore an ele-
gant fawn-colored brocaded silk, made in
the latest style, in fact we could say as they
do of brides nowadays, “she was elegantly
gowned.” Brother McDonald wore the
usual dress suit, and there were many warm
and hearty expressions of good will and es-
teem. The call for the banquet hall came
and the guests were ushered up stairs where
in the spacious apartment five long tables
were arranged for the large party.
	At the head of the center table were the
guests of honor and President Joseph F.
Smith and the family of the honored couple.
	The tables were all filled, and at the head
of each some distinguished man was seated.
The menu was excellently prepared and
served by pretty young girls of the cooking
class of the L. D. S. College. The decor-
ations had been under the supervision of a
committee of three and were in excellent
taste, a card with the name designated the
place of each guest, also a flowers for favors.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing upon the abundant feast, and a
spirit of unity and good fellowship pervaded 
the gathering.
	After the banquet tables were cleared
away and a sort of program of exercises in
charge of Bishop C. W. Nibley, opened with
singing a hymn and a brief address from
President Joseph F. Smith who in a very
happy manner expressed his good feeling
for Brother and Sister McDonald and pleas-
ure at having them his guests on such an
auspicious occasion. Bishop O. F. Whitney
recited a verse as a prelude to his remarks:

O ’tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the
		test,
’Tis but when affliction’s cold presence hath
		bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the
		best.
For friends will fawn at fortune’s dawn,
	While the breeze and the tide waft us steadily
		on;
But if sorrow o’ertake us each false one forsakes 
		us,
	And leaves us to sink or to struggle alone.

There was singing and recitations and an
excellent one rendered by the veteran actor,
Phil Margetts, Esq., impromptu speeches,
some original verses by Aunt Emm. Wells,
and very fine musical selections of negro
ballads rendered by some of the McDonalds,
and Brother McDonald gave a little inter-
esting history of their younger days. Then a
grand march in which most of the company
joined, and some old-fashioned dances in
which President Winder participated al-
though 86 years old, and fancy dances by
the McDonald grandchildren. Taken all in
all it was a delightful party and very differ-
ent to the wedding fifty years before, when


the two young people joined hands and were
married on horseback as they were journey-
ing southward at the time of the move when
Johnston’s army was coming. The EXPO-
NENT extends hearty congratulations and
ardent wishes for a long and happy life to-
gether, at any rate to celebrate their dia-
mond anniversary twenty-five years hence.


