[Column 2]
her native land and kindred, and for which
she was ready to make any sacrifice re-
quired. Such women are a joy along the
pathway of other people’s lives; they help
to lighten the load of care that is a part of
all our lives here in this mortal existence.
We cannot cherish the memory of such grand
and noble women too sacredly. Women
who have accomplished something worthy
of record on the pages of history. Sister
Howard died away from home while filling
an appointment for the Relief Society.
	Elizabeth Anderson Howard was born at
Carlow, Carlow, Co., Ireland, July 12, 1823.
Died in Grantsville, Tooele Co., Utah,
March 12, 1893.
	Although it may appear to many even of
our own people that the women of the Lat-
ter-doy Saints are much alike, and that the
record of one serves as a sample of many,
yet to one who knows them intimately, one
finds them very distinctive; and each one a
study in herself.
	Even Puritan women are dissimilar, and
each has her peculiar traits and personality.
Long ago when the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT was on the corner of State and
South Temple streets where the Alta Club
is today, I wrote a biographical sketch of
Mrs. Mary Ann Angell Young under her
own direction, and she approved it, and
now I wish to tell in a few paragraphs my
personal impressions of the life and charac-
ter of this illustrious woman; wife of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, founder of Utah and
its first Governor.
	Mrs. Young was the Puritan type in the
extreme religious sense; she was of a de-
cidedly spiritual nature; and when younger
must have been the maiden type too per-
sonified; had she remained in her home in
Providence, Rhode Island, in the Baptist
church of which she was a member, she
would probably never have married; in fact
she had made up her mind, never to marry,
unless she could find “A man of God.”
	I met Mrs. Young first in Nauvoo and
was greatly impressed by what I heard of
her from those who had known her in Kirt.
land; and when in closer association at the
time of the exodus and journeying west-
ward, and in nearer proximity during the
period of our stay in Winter Quarters; and
even after until the time of her death, I feel
no hesitancy in calling her one of the fam-
ous women of the Church; one who came to
great honor and who bore all trials, priva-
tions, honors, and affluence, like a Saint of
God in meekness and humility. Her ben-
evolence was far reaching and unquestion-
able, always apparent when the slightest
call was made upon her, for assistance; like
her illustrious husband who said he would
“rather help nine who were unworthy than to
let one who was worthy suffer.” Mrs.
Young in her early life had been a student-
of the Bible, a Sunday School teacher in the
Baptist church in Providence; and she had
been particularly interested in studying an-
cient prophecies; therefore she compre-
hended the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when she heard the Elders
preaching it in its fulness. She also jour-
neyed to Kirtland alone as Phebe Carter
Woodruff did.
	Thinking of Mrs Young as I knew her in
the various trying ordeals and circumstan-
ces through which she passed, I can truly
say she was of the exceptional spiritual
type, and a most fitting example of sim-
plicity of faith, that believes without ques-
tioning, and would make any sacrifice of her

[Column 3]
own feelings, and desires in obedience to the
commandments of God.
	In adversity, in poverty, with sickness to
contend with, her faith never failed, she al-
ways looked upward from whence help
would come.
	In some instances her faith was child-like
so sure was she of results; but it conquered
and overcome such obstacles as few women
have had to meet. A striking illustration
of this and of her self-possession or presence
of mind was manifested when she miracul-
ously saved her husband’s life, she was alone
with him in an attack of apoplexy and to
all appearance he was dead; he himself de-
clared afterwards that he was dead, there
was no sign of life whatever.
	After the toils and hardships and mob-
bings and drivings of Kirtland, Far West
and Nauvoo and the experiences of the exo-
dus and of Winter Quarters, when in the
valley of Salt Lake the Saints became more
prosperous and Brigham Young was made
Governor of the Territory, and it fell to the
lot of Mrs. Mary Ann Young to entertain the
guests of the Chief Executive of Utah or
Deseret—she was quite equal to the situ-
ation, and though the home was primitive,
(for the term of office began before the Bee
Hive was built) the white house on the hill
was the one mansion then, yet Mrs. Young
seemed as much at ease in doing the honors
of the Governor’s home as when receiving
the brethren and sisters in her log cabin in
Winter Quarters; and let it be remembered
Brigham Young entertained all the great
people of wealth, rank, and station, not
only those who came hither, but many of
those who passed through this way to Cali-
fornia and the great Northwest. Mrs. Young
had the happy faculty of adaptability, and
she was so well versed in Scripture lore, and
in the Book of Mormon, and had passed
through such varied experiences, that she
was never at a loss for subjects of conversa-
tion in any company. Sister Young was
always dignified, as much so in the kitchen
as in the parlor; she was not a woman who
sought or cared for publicity; she loved re-
tirement in her own home. Mrs. Young
did not even care for the Gardo after she
moved into it, and preferred the White
House on the hill, yet she had filled with
credit the highest social place of distinction
as the wife of the President of the Church
and the wife of the Governor of the Terri-
tory. There was no assumption of power in
her manner, no arrogance, she simply ac-
cepted the honors with the modesty of the
old fashioned Puritan mother. All her na-
ture and inherited ideas revolted at the
thought of show, or of doing things for the
sake of appearances; she had the New Eng-
land ideas of propriety, and reposefulness of
manner, a touch of Quakerism, that shrank
from notoriety.
	The writer had many long talks with Mrs.
Young while preparing the biography al-
luded to, and realized and appreciated more
fully the striking worth of one who had made
tremendous sacrifices for principle, and had
such unbounded integrity, such implicit
faith and confidence in the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors in
office. I really feel that it is a good part of
higher education to get to the heart and
inner life of such noble and good women,
who have stood side by side, and shoulder
to shoulder with the greatest men in the
Church, and in the dispensation that we re-
alize and know is to be the greatest of all
dispensations upon this earth. All honor
to such women as Mary Ann Angell Young.


We might well quote these famous words
of the poet Milton in this connection:
		“What thou biddest
Unargued I obey; so God ordains;
God is thy law; thou mine; to know no more
Is woman’s happiest knowledge and her praise.”
	Mary Ann Angell Young, born in Seneca,
New York, June 8, 1803, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, June 27, 1882.


