[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB.
		(Continued from page 64.)
	A number of the Club members appeared
in costume, among the characters represent-
ed, Helen of Troy, Penelope, The Empress
Eugenie, Spring and a Puritan Mother.
	At the December meeting of the Club,
original papers were read on the customs of
celebrating Christmas in other lands. Ger-
many by Mrs. Lillian Maeser, France and
India by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, New England
States by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the January meeting, 1905, papers were
read, one by Mrs. M. J. Snow on “The Youth
of George Washington,” and one on “The
Friendship of Lafayette and Washington” by
Mrs. Lillian Maeser. Original poem, “Betsy
Ross and the Flag,” by Mrs. Susa Y. Gates.
Two dollars were contributed to the Utah Fe-
deration of Women’s Clubs, for the Travel-
ing Library of the U. F. W. Clubs.
	The February meeting was held at the
home of Mrs. E. S. Wilcox, where both the
Press and Reapers Club were guests, in honor
of the birthday of their founder Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Sixty ladies were present. The pro-
gram, consisted of the reading of poems from
Mrs. Wells own volume of verse, “Musings
and Memories,” songs and recitations with a
love gift to the guest of honor.
	At the May meeting Mrs. Jensen read a
very able paper on the war between Russia
and Japan, from the Russian standpoint.
	Mrs. Wilcox addressed the Club, more par-
ticularly on the wonderful record, of the lit-
tle Chinese girl, Lillie King, at the Fremont
school, who had passed all competitors by
two per cent.
	At the September meeting, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, spoke upon the early history of the
U. W. Press Club, and impressed upon its
members the importance of its position as
one of the National Women’s Clubs. Mrs.
Francis read a paper on “The Idealism of
the Home.” An original poem, “The Burgo-
master of Berne,” was read by its author, Mrs.
Kelly. Two representatives were appointed
to attend the Convention to be held at
Springville, namely Mrs. Francis, President,
and Mrs. E. S. Wilcox. Mrs. Lydia Alder
was specially invited to speak of women in
other lands by Mrs. Kinney.
	The Annual Meeting of the Club was held
in October, at the home of Dr. E. R. Shipp.
	The election of officers, resulted in Mrs.
Emma Jensen as President; Mrs. M. F. Kelly,
First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian Maeser,
Second Vice President; Mrs. Margaret Caine,
Secretary; Mrs. M. J. Snow, Cor. Secretary;
Florence Critchlow, Treasurer.
	A program consisting of sketches of women
of Biblical times, was well rendered.
	At the November meeting of the Club,held
in the Exponent office, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
addressed the Club, voicing her gratitude to
Mrs. Wells as the founder of the Press Club,
and her untiring efforts, in encouraging
mental development in the women of Utah.
Mrs. Mary E. Howell was appointed as de-
legate to the George Washington Memorial
Association meeting to be held in Washing-
ton D. C., February 1906.
	The December meeting of the Club was
held at the home of Mrs. Francis and Mrs.
Kelly. Original poems on Christmas and
other subjects were read by Dr. E. R. Shipp.
Mrs. Kelly read Pax Vobiscum, her poem,
which had received first honorable mention,
in the Deseret News Prize Competition.
	The January meeting, 1906, of the Club
was held at the home of Prest. Mrs. Jensen.
Mrs. Jensen favored the company with an

