[Column 1]
heartily welcomed in any company, and
infused an element of cheerfulness by her
buoyant and whole-souled nature. She was
indeed a host in herself, and entertaining in
any circle wherever she went, genial and
brilliant in conversation, animated and
beaming with good spirits in her counten-
ance, so that it did one good even to look
into her face; her friends can never forget her
cordial warm-heartedness in all places and
at all times. Sister Howard was a gifted
speaker, had a full, round-toned voice, and
was never at a loss for words to express her
sentiments.
	Elizabeth Howard was one of the few
women in the early days who dressed well,
who had rich clothing and handsome jew-
elry, yet she carried herself in such a becom-
ing manner, that one never felt embarrassed
because she was better dressed she was gen-
erous in giving to her friends and to the
needy; it seemed to be a part of her nature;
her house parties and garden parties were a
source of delight and pleasure, she knew
perfectly well how to entertain either small
or large crowds. In those days when so few
people could entertain sumptuously, the
Howard home on Cottonwood, was a resort
for the young folks, who wanted to have a
good time. Luckily for the Howards there
were no street cars, and the distance from
the city was too far to walk, but those who
could drive out enjoyed the open-hearted
hospitality of the Howards, and those of us
who loved rare china, cut glass and silver-
ware and fine Irish table linen, of which
there was a scarcity in those days, were sure
to be favored with a sight of these luxuries
on occasions when Sister Howard enter-
tained her special friends. Sister Howard
was what might well be termed, once your
friend, always your friend, a good com-
rade, she was worth cultivating; was strong
in her attachments, affectionate and sym-
pathetic. Her faith in the Gospel was firm
and steadfast, and she loved to labor for the
cause of truth, and the advancement and
onward progress of women’s work in the
Church.
	Sister Howard was one of the formost
champions of equal suffrage and participa-
tion of women in the affairs of education
and government. She was a fine mission-
ary, never cared for the hard ships of journey-
ings, when jolting over rough roads in lum-
ber wagons, she was a most delightful com-
panion she had always been, and was dur-
ing her life a great reader, and her mind was
stored with useful knowledge, history,
peotry and fiction, and her Irish wit was
helpful in keeping up one’s spirits when
everything went wrong. We have been to-
gether in some dangerous places, but her
courage was always equal to the hour and
the difficulty, and she was so full of vigor
and elasticity of spirits that one felt more
confident of the outcome being favorable
after all, because of her assured optimism.
	A lover of nature and outdoor freedom,
she rejoiced in beautiful scenery, far away
from the “madding crowd.” It was per-
haps this element in her that made her such
a good traveler even under difficulties she
was a woman who enjoyed life in its com-
plete fulness; yet over and above all she ap-
preciated the Gospel and believed and ac-
cepted all the principles revealed in this
day and dispensation through the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Notwithstanding her light-
heartedness and buoyancy of spirit which
carried her easier over every rough place in
life, yet deep down in her soul was the un-
fying love of the truth, for which she left

