and domestic animals, cows sheep, or
horses, one might say by instinct, knew all
the good and bad points, could ride or drive
any horse that a man could manage, and
drove her own team across the plains into
the valley. Besides the admirable qualities
not usually found so strongly developed in
women, she had superior mental and spirit-
ual qualifications that corresponded with
the physical endowments. She was a wom-
an of power in all religious lines, gifted in
prayer and in blessing, not only with words
but with manifest inspirational power, and
was frequently selected on great occasions
on account of this uncommon gift, to pray
in large public gatherings and assemblies.
She had a very good, far-reaching voice,
which is quite exceptional among women
speakers, even those who have had training
along the lines of public speaking, culture
of the voice and so forth. Sister Kimball
was a natural platform speaker, and she
reasoned well on all subjects of every day
life, and questions of public interest and
welfare, law and order; she was thoroughly
versed in the scriptures, could converse
intelligently with ministers of all denomina-
tions, and was often prophetic in her utter-
ances.
	She was a woman who seemingly knew
how to meet every emergency, and to be able
to conquer every difficulty that came in her
way, totally without fear, brave in the truest
sense, and self-possessed amid scenes of
misfortune or calamities, more so than any
woman I have ever known in my wide ex-
perience of womankind. There is no doubt
of her having the revolutionary blood of her
ancestors in her veins.
	sister Kimball, like her younger sister,
Zina Huntington Young, possessed that
natural gift of healing that is so manifest in
those whom we speak of as “born nurses,”
The sick came to her to be administered to,
I might say daily; she not only had great
faith, but she inspired faith and confidence
in those to whom she ministered. Doubt-
less she would have made a skilled surgeon,
in fact she had acted in that capacity in set-
ting broken limbs when there were no doc-
tors at hand. Sister Presendia was tall,
large and well-proportioned, she carried
herself well, and would be notable among a
crowd; she looked to be exactly what she
really was, a woman of extraordinary capa-
bilities, could fill almost any position in life
that required moral power and force of
character. I think I may safely say with-
out fear of contradiction, that she blest
more of the humble and lowly sisters than
any other one sister in the Church.
	Sister Kimball’s life was not a bed of
roses; there were more thorns, thistles and
briers in the way; indeed she had passed, as
it were, through a fiery furnace. There were
many deaths, too, in her large family, and
one particularly sad. Early after coming to
the valley, a very beautiful little girl was
born to her, and when the child was of the

[Column 3]
most interesting age, she fell in City Creek,
and though help was at hand the child was
dead.
	Both parents mourned greatly over the un-
timely death of the little girl, who had been
namedCelestia,and indeed she seemed purely
celestial. Such ordeals are indeed sorrow-
ful.
	One of the episodes in Sister Presendia’s
life to which she often referred with tender
pride and satisfaction was her two visits to
Liberty jail in Missouri, when Joseph the
Prophet and his brother Hyrum, the Patri-
arch, were incarcerated there at the time of
the mobbing of the Saints in Missouri.
	Sister Presendia’s first visit was in com-
pany with Father Huntington, Heber C.
Kimball and Alanson Ripley. A second
visit was made with Frederic G. Williams,
at one time Counselor to President Joseph
Smith. This visit was a comfort to Sister
Presendia as long as she lived; she also had
a personal letter from the Prophet Joseph,
written while he was in prison, which she
considered her choicest treasure as long as
she lived.
	Sister Presendia made a profound impres-
sion upon her friends and associates, and
especially upon strangers, from her genial
manner and grand appearance, she was like
one would expect the revolutionary mothers
were, as valiant as those who fought for
liberty, but who bore their brunt of the bat-
tle at home, without receiving the honor.
	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Kimball
was born at Watertown, New York, Septem-
ber 7, 1810. Died at Salt Lake City, Utah,
February 1, 1892.
	In writing of these notable women of the
past, I am doing so from my own point of
view and personal observation, and as
things appealed to me, and the memories I
cherish of them, that I am anxious to hand
down to the young women of today and of
the future. Each one of whom I write has
been my personal friend, and of most of
them I have published biographies while
living, and I feel that I know their sterliag
worth to the community in which they lived
and labored-
	Among those women of the past whom I
dearly loved, I count one among the dear-
est, Elizabeth Howard, we called her our
representative Irish woman, and she was
fond of tho title; for she dearly loved her
country.
	In her person she was a magnificent speci
men of womanhood. She had been carefully
educated, and her opportunities for culture
had been excellent. Her father was a man
of broad and advanced views, and she had
learned much of public matters concerning
Ireland by listening to the conversation of
Irish gentlemen who visited her father’s
house. This had been helpful in broaden-
ing her own mind and her views of life and
its affairs. Moreover, she was so amiable
and tactful in presenting her side of the
question, that she made friends of those who
held entirely adverse opinions.
	The younger people were very fond of her
society, she was vivacious, witty, winning
and attractive. Sister Howard was always


