DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS Dr. Margaret C. Roberts A TRIBUTE Annie Wells Cannon. Utah has lost one of her most brilliant and useful women in the passing of Doctor Margaret C. Roberts, whose death occurred from an acute attack of pneumonia, March 13, of this year in New York City. She will be sadly missed. From a large circle of acquaintances and deeply mourned by those who knew and loved her; yet the influence of her tender ministrations among them will radiate through the years to come, holding her ever in fond remembrance. Leadership and individuality were strongly evidenced in the character of Doctor Roberts from early childhood. These attributes, added to a natural beauty and an attractive personality made her always an outstanding figure in whatever group she happened to mingle. Since such would inevitably seek expression 
 in some line of public endeavor, "Doctor Maggie," as her intimates loved to call her, chose the science of medicine as the profession through which she might render the greatest service. She graduated from the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania in the spring of 1882, and immediately on her return home entered into practice, becoming in a short time one of the most successful and efficient physicians in the community. Early in her practice she was impressed by the lack of knowledge among her patients and others concerning personal hygiene and the necessary sanitary methods for good health and proper living; and so she undertook a course of lectures not only in her own immediate community but throughout the various sections of the country imparting instruction and sounding warning upon this most necessary subject. In this work she discovered that the art of teaching was an inherent bent of her nature, and so she organized classes in nursing and obstetrics. But all this work, fine though it was, left her still far from the goal of her ambition; more and more she sensed the need of nurses for the poor, and of knowledge for the uninformed, and so she conceived, in her bright and active mind, when almost at the peak of a profession which promised all that usually implies worldly success, the idea of training nurses for the indigent and those in moderate circumstances, in order that motherhood might not be discouraged and that proper care and help might be given those who most needed it; that lives of women and babies might not be needlessly endangered, or, as sometimes happens, sacrificed; that unnecessary suffering might be avoided, the cruel hours of trial and travail made less hazardous, but met with at least some degree of confidence and fortitude. Seeking for the medium through which to work out these splendid plans, she naturally 'turned to the Relief Society, under whose supervision she knew the women could be found to receive the training and assist her to realize the consummation of her broad vision and ardent desires. So with the help of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, then under the leadership of Sister M. Isahella Horne, who at once perceived that a long perturbed but indefinite problem was now to be solved, the Relief Society Nurse Class was started, a piece of constructive philanthropy, unsurpassed, if not indeed unequalled, in the annals of woman's work, and the benefits of which cannot be estimated, inch less enumerated. The offering of her talents, her time and her acquirements, without compensation, that women might be properly trained to care intelligently for the sick, meant no little sacrifice on the part of Doctor Roberts, but it was made with sincerity and enthusiasm. The first class numbered nearly one hundred; others followed year DOCTOR MARGARET C. ROBERTS 363 by year until there was in existence a veritable army of women qualified to alleviate suffering wherever found, having contracted in exchange for the instruction they had received to go among the poor and give service for such meagre renumeration as could be spared without impoverishing the family, or for none whatever, if conditions so demanded. After about three years this Nurse Class came under the supervision of the General Board of the Relief Society instead of the Salt Lake stake, as it was deemed advisable to invite women from the outside counties to take the training, and thus extend the benefits throughout the different settlements. With increased facilities and more financial assistance the class was now placed on a more systematic and efficient basis. The requirements of applicants were raised to a higher standard, and the work was generally broadened and improved. With Doctor Roberts as instructor the classes were maintained for several years, and today throughout the different stakes of Zion are scores of women who bless her name for the opportunity given them under her training to acquire knowledge along such vital lines. Not all of her students, perhaps comparatively few, have continued in the nursing profession; but the great majority of the others have taken on themselves the joys and responsibilities of home and motherhood; all, however, acknowledge the lasting benefit received under her instruction, and remember her kindly services with gratitude and love. Perhaps after all the closest friends of Doctor Maggie will remember her less as a professional woman than as a delightful companion in social and cultural pursuits. She was a charter member of the Authors Club and the founder of the Friendship Circle, both organized for the purpose of study and interest along intellectual lines, and both holding, as a qualification of membership, the desire for culture of mind rather than that for fashionable relaxation or social pleasure. With her taste and acquirements her last years, spent in the refined and congenial atmosphere of the mission home in Brooklyn, with opportunity for travel among the large Eastern cities, must have been in high degree welcomed and appreciated, and the enjoyment of these opportunities in life's mellow and ripened period seems in truth a well earned and fitting reward to one who had so fully and bounteously given to others.