Current Topics. James H. Anderson. INTERNATIONAL CHARITY. The appalling conditions in Belgium, resulting from Germany's invasion of Belgian neutrality in the present European war, whereby approximately seven million non-combatants are suffering untold hardships and are threatened with almost immediate starvation, have called forth a highly commendable generosity on the part of the American public, in an endeavor to relieve the sufferers, for the time being at least. If these unfortunate people are to be saved from death by privations and resultant disease, there must be still greater liberality by Americans, covering a period of uncertain length. The work of this relief is being carried on by special organizations brought into existence for that purpose, and with excellent results. While this is going on, the various branches of our own Woman's Relief Society should not fail to realize that their work for the relief of the deserving needy at home must not be overlooked. These branch organizations are not to interfere with the work of Belgian relief commissions, or other charitable committees which, while more general in extent, are special in their character. The Relief Society have a home obligation which necessarily demands their chief attention. America's present industrial depression makes this obligation more pronounced than usual, hence calls for increased activity by Relief Society officers and members. A pleasing feature of extending aid by the Society is that it is done without advertising the recipients thereof. The fact that deserving persons who may have become dependent by some misfortune would have their feelings hurt and their influence for good limited, by advertising the aid given them, suggests one of the several reasons why our Society proceeds without such publicity. There is a double blessing in liberal giving; but giving with ostentation is selfishness which often obscures and even removes the blessed effect. "When thou doest alms, cause not a trumpet to be sounded before thee," is one of the Society's guiding rules; at the same time its members also are anxious to be fully mindful of giving aid to the needy, hence are very desirous of having communicated to them, without undue publicity, every deserving case where such aid may be extended. LOCAL TOPICS. There is much public discussion, apropos of the 1915 session of the Utah Legislature, of a revision of the system of taxa
 tion and of collecting the public revenues. In view of the fact that the public has been getting a full share of revenue, so far as property-owners generally are concerned, the proper economic expenditure of funds that are collected under the present system is of greater importance in the minds of the taxpayers than is any change in system which may provide a more refined method of squeezing the individual's purse for the swelling of the public treasury. What the people want is less waste of public funds in state, county and municipal duplication of work, less individual junketing and joyriding at public expense, less instances of employing half-a-dozen persons to do the work of three, and more practical economic results from the expenditure of money gathered under the present system, rather than changes to increase revenue for further extravagance. Something that will check the prevailing craze of public officials generally to get from the individual all the cash they can, and that will change existing conditions into the process of leaving a reasonable amount of means for the homes of the wage-earners and taxpayers, would particularly interest, at this stage of the proceedings, the wives and mothers who preside over those homes. Public extravagance and private economy are an ill-matched pair. NATIONAL INTERESTS. The large centers of population in the United States now are scenes of special effort to protect girls from the terrible degradation of immorality; and various methods are suggested and followed to attain this most desirable end. Yet one often wonders why it is that for this purpose so little insistence is made upon the morality of the other sex, which so vitally affects the situation. Men cease to be a dominating menace to the welfare of womankind only when they learn to place upon personal virtue of both man and woman a value high as upon life itself. No matter how exalted his position, how great his wealth, how highly educated he may be, or how refined his tastes in many respects, the youth or man whose personal morals are deficient is a social viper whose companionship should be shunned by the self-respecting girl or woman as she would shun a poisonous reptile; and workers for woman's welfare cannot learn too soon or too thoroughly this vital lesson.