EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.Vol. II January, 1915. No. 1 Genesis. The most interesting phase of human life is its beginning? the entrance into life of a human soul, with its beautiful and grave possibility. The early spring is the most delightful time of the year, when the pussy willows are blushing under the warming rays of the sun, and the delicate greens of the ditch banks are showing through the brown earth crust. The organizations of materials for the building of a great ship ? the focusing of intellects on the launching of some great national enterprise ? all of these inspire the deepest reverence, and the most earnest thought. Creation. The creation of a world, of a house, or of a loaf of bread, is but the assembling of forces and materials which are co-existent with our Heavenly Father. We do not create anything materially; we only fashion and organize. Is this not true also of the spiritual world? While we may seem to discover new truths, or organize new forces, it is but our personal discovery of truths and forces which are co-existent with us. We are like children playing with a kaleidoscope. There are all the bits of glass, colored and shaped, which lie before our eyes; and, as we turn them, they constantly form new combinations. 
 Second Literary This new Relief Society Magazine which Child of the the General Board are creating, with so Relief Society. much hope, so much faith, some dread, and fear, and trembling anxiety, ? this new literary venture is not the first creation of this great Relief Society. Brigham Young and Eliza R. Snow started the Woman's Exponent, over forty years ago, with Lula Greene Richards as editor, made it the organ of the Relief Society of the Church. The wonderful work accomplished by that literary missionary under the editorship of President Emmeline B. Wells will not be fully known until eternity unlocks the doors of human endeavor, and gives us the scales with which to weigh mortal efforts. Watchful This magazine is, in its way, the new-born babe Care Over of the Relief Society. All of us are more or less Its Infancy. concerned in its parentage, birth, and beginning. Its genesis, its creation, has become a part of the lives of us all, and although its foster mothers of the General Board may have an extra charge concerning its infantile years, and the stages of its further development, still, it is to my dear sisters of the Relief Society everywhere that the magazine must look for nourishment, for support, for means of education, and for full development. This magazine belongs of right to every woman in the Relief Society throughout the whole Church. The Mission of It is impossible for us to be sure what any Our Magazine. child of ours may become. How much more impossible, then, to forecast what shall be the future, the final character, of this literary infant, newly-born. If the Editor of this enterprise might shape its policy and fashion its fulfilment, she would have this magazine filled with the Spirit of the Lord from cover to cover. In order to do that, no article should be published which would encourage vanity, hurtful luxury, sin, or any evil passion of the human breast. Rather would we make of this magazine a beacon light of hope, beauty and charity. The Christian world have all the virtues. They practice many of the moral precepts of true religion; they are charitable, kind, honest, and intelligent. They lack one thing, and one thing only, and that is the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, taught by those having authority. It is, therefore, the spirit and genius of the Gospel which we would like to develop and expound brightly, attractively, cheerfully, and hopefully, to the readers of the Relief Society Magazine. Guide Lessons. This year our lessons will comprise four subjects. After much thought and consultation, it has been decided to use our Literature and Home Gardening lessons as articles, or departments, in our magazine. Therefore, we will have ten lessons each in Theology, Genealogy, Ethics, and Art. The lessons in Theology are taken from Gospel Themes, by Elder Orson F. Whitney. This was used as a Manual in the priesthood course, in 1914, and most of the sisters have access to that book. Lest any should not, we are reprinting that portion covered in our lessons. The Genealogical Lessons are based on the Lesson Book published by the Genealogical Society of Utah, and all the sisters, practically, have that book. Hence, no material will be republished. The Art Lessons are taken from Devotees and their Shrines, and the sisters have this book also, or can easily secure it. Hence, only outlines are given of this study. We invite your serious attention to the lessons that follow, and only add that the General Board stand ready to aid you wherever and whenever you may ask for such assistance. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Lesson II ? The Law of Obedience. (a) Man is Helpless. (b) Redemption by Grace. (c) Salvation by Obedience. (d) Heaven's First Law. (e) Illustrations of Obedience. (f) Man's proper Attitude. (g) Dead and Living Oracles. What constitutes man's helplessness? What is the meaning of grace? What may be called heaven's first law? What is your idea of salvation? In a seeming difference between a passage of scripture and the word of a living oracle, which would you follow? 
 Man Helpless. ? When Adam and Eve had transgressed the divine command by partaking of the forbidden fruit, it was as if the human race had fallen into a pit, from which they were powerless, by any act of their own, to emerge. They could not climb out, for they did not know how to climb; and even had they known, there was no means by which to climb. Human endeavor, unassisted, could accomplish nothing in the way of deliverance. Man in his mortal condition needed spiritual enlightenment, having forgotten all that he had previously known. In other words, he needed a ladder, that he might climb out of the pit, and that ladder was furnished in the revelation of the Gospel of Christ. Without it there is no salvation, no exaltation. The Tower of Babel symbolizes the situation: All man's efforts to reach heaven, without divine assistance, end in failure and confusion. Redemption by Grace. ? The gospel ladder rests upon the rock of Christ's atonement ? an act of grace, a free gift from God to all mankind ? the wicked as well as the righteous. All profit by it, for, as the result of that atonement, all are brought forth from the grave. And this is eminently just: Adam's posterity were consigned to death for no deed of their own doing. It is fitting, therefore, that their redemption should come unconditionally. Salvation by Obedience. ? But redemption is not salvation, nor salvation exaltation, as already explained. Men must "work out their salvation" (Philippians 2:12), and gain exaltation by continuous upward striving. Salvation and exaltation, while depending primarily upon the grace of God, are also the fruits of man's acceptance of the gospel, and his steadfast adherence thereto, until it shall have done for him its perfect work. There are degrees of glory ? "many mansions" in the great house of God, and the highest are reserved for those who render to the Master of the house the fulness of their obedience. "Salvation means a man's being placed beyond the power of all his enemies. * * * Until a man can triumph over death, he is not saved. * * * To be saved we must not only do some things, but everything which God has commanded" ("Joseph Smith's Teachings," pp. 146-150). Heaven's First Law. ? "Order is heaven's first law," says human wisdom. "Not so," says divine inspiration, "obedience is heaven's first law, and order follows as the result."* Without obedience, spiritual growth, eternal progress, is impossible. Says Joseph the prophet: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundation of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, An idea advanced by President George Q. Cannon.