"Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men." Remarks by President Joseph F. Smith at Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1914. My dear sisters: I am pleased to have the privilege of being present with you for a short time. I am not, however, prepared to speak to you upon any subject, and shall, therefore, have to depend entirely upon the promptings of the Spirit. We certainly live in troublesome times; and, notwithstanding the peace that pervades our own land, we are not without our troubles at home. And many of the troubles that we ourselves are having are very serious in their trend, and in the possible results that may come from them. And it is well enough for us to think a little about the troubles that pervade our own borders, as well as to mourn so very seriously over the preventable troubles that have come upon our neighbors. The troubles that come are very serious, sad, disastrous, cruel and wicked; no question about it. And there is, among us today, I am sorry to say, the germ of the spirit that has prompted, very largely, the conditions that exist in Europe today; internal unrest, dissatisfaction, discontent, internal contention over political, labor, and religious matters, and almost every subject that affects society at this time. And the very germ that has prompted the terrible results that we see in the nations of Europe, is at work among us here today. We need not forget it, nor ignore it, either. There is just one power, and one only, that can prevent war among the nations of the earth, and that is true religion and undefiled before God, the Father. Nothing else will accomplish it. In the early days of the Church, aye, before the Church was organized, God declared, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the great principle that no religious organization then extant in the world was acknowledged by him. It is difficult to make people believe it. It is almost impossible to make even many of those who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ actually accept this great proposition. If it had been declared by man, men might have reason to doubt it. It is a very common expression today that there is good in all religions. So there is; but there is not sufficient good in the denominations of the world to prevent war, nor to prevent contention, strife, division and hatred of one another. And, put all the good doctrines in all the denominations of the world together, and they do not constitute sufficient good to prevent the evils that exist in the world. Why? Because the denominations lack the essential knowledge of God's revelation and truth, and the enjoyment of that spirit which comes from God that 
 leadeth unto all truth, and that inspires men to do good and not evil, to love and not to hate, to forgive and not to bear malice, to be kind and generous and not to be unkind and contracted. So, I repeat, there is but one remedy that can prevent men from going to war, when they feel disposed to do it, and that is the Spirit of God, which inspires to love, and not to hatred, which leads unto all truth, and not unto error, which inclines the children of God to pay deference to him and to his laws and to esteem them as above all other things in the world. The Lord has told us that these wars would come. We have not been ignorant that they were pending, and that they were likely to burst out upon the nations of the earth at any time. We have been looking for the fulfilment of the words of the Lord that they would come. Why? Because the Lord wanted it? No; not by any means. Was it because the Lord predestined it, or designed it, in any degree? No, not at all. Why? It was for the reason that men did not hearken unto the Lord God, and he foreknew the results that would follow, because of men, and because of the nations of the earth; and therefore he was able to predict what would befall them, and come upon them in consequence of their own acts, and not because he has willed it upon them, for they are but suffering and reaping the results of their own actions. I was reminded, while Sister Richards was speaking to us, of an experience that I had forty years ago. In 1874, I visited Continental Europe. Previous to that I had been in Great Britain, and I had the privilege of crossing the channel into Scandinavia, but never before had been among the continental nations. One of the things that forcibly attracted my attention, in my sojourn among the European people, was the manual labor thrust upon the women. One of the first sights that I saw was a woman hooked up with a dog, pulling a cart in the streets of one of the cities of Europe, and trying to make her living out of bartering watercress, or some sort of herbs, which she may have gathered where she could. And that was the condition of hundreds and hundreds of women in those great cities. And then I saw a woman and a donkey hitched up to the cart together, the woman on the one side and the donkey on the other, tramping through the streets of those cities, trying to make a living. And when we landed in the seaport town, the first I observed were women rowing the boats, women standing at the markets and at the tables, and women packing great baskets of fish upon their backs, and going up to the various markets to distribute them. And when we passed through the fields, we saw women making bricks, at the brick kilns — no men; and when we looked over the fields, we saw scarecrows scattered around among the fields to scare off ravenous birds, and every scarecrow in the fields "PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN." 15 was dressed in women's clothes — not in men's. I remarked the other day to a boy who was born in Germany, and who came from there just recently, about these things which I had seen. "Oh," he said, "that is nothing; it is nothing for women in Germany to make their living; they are used to it. It is nothing for them to let the men go to war; they have had to provide for themselves before." When we reached the great centers of those countries, we discovered men dressed in military clothes. Those who were not on military duty, at the time, were sauntering about restaurants, saloons, gambling places and other places of ill repute, smoking their cigars, twirling their little canes in their hands, exploiting as gentlemen, while the women were doing the drudgery in the fields. I saw that forty years ago, with my own eyes, in Europe. Well, I pitied them then. And while I felt indignant at the world for the conditions that existed, I felt most indignant because the conditions which I saw there with my own eyes had been charged upon the women of Utah, while such things never existed in Utah at all. Those conditions continue, and will continue, I presume. Well now, my sisters, "peace on earth, and good will to men," is our slogan. That is our principle. That is the principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And while I think it is wrong, wickedly wrong, to force war upon any nation, or upon any people, I believe it is righteous and just for every people to defend their own lives and their own liberties, and their own homes, with the last drop of their blood. I believe it is right, and I believe that the Lord will sustain any people in defending their own liberty, to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, any people trying to preserve their wives and their children from the ravages of war. But we do not want to be brought into the necessity of having to defend ourselves. We want to remain continually in the condition that existed here many years ago, when we were visited by an army, whose ostensible and manifest purpose was to destroy the leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and break up the Church. President Young said to the boys who went out to defend us: "Don't shed blood. Be careful that you don't shed blood. Do everything in your power to prevent their coming. Harass them; take away their means of travel, if you can, but don't shed the blood of any man!" That was the doctrine that was taught by President Young to the Latter-day Saints, at that time. "And if you will be careful to observe this," he said, "you will be delivered, and God will fight your battles." And the Lord did it. And so I believe it will always be with the people of God. If the condition of the world appears to you as it does me, at the present time, it seems to me that you have within your hearts and minds one of the strongest evidences, that has ever been 
 brought to your understanding of the truth of the declaration which God gave to the world through Joseph Smith, that "they worship me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the precepts of men. They have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof," and have it not. In Germany, at this time, Protestants and Catholics are praying to God for victory over their foes. In France and in England and in Russia and in Belgium, and in Austria, and in all the other countries that are at war with one another, they are praying, Protestants, Catholics together, for victory. The Allies are praying for victory, to the same God — supposed to be, for these are so called Christian nations, and they are members of the same churches, worshiping in the same forms of religion, and yet they are calling upon God one against another, to defend them against their enemies, and to strengthen their arms to destroy their foes. What does it prove? It proves what God said. They have not his Spirit; they have not his power to guide them. They are not in possession of his truth; and, therefore, the very conditions that exist are the results of this unbelief in the truth; and this worship of men and organizations and powers of men is divested of the power of God. Now, I did not expect to say anything about these questions, when I came. I rather came with the idea in my mind that I was going to speak to the Latter-day Saints, to the sisters, the mothers, and the daughters, of Zion, who are associated in this great and glorious latter-day work of "peace on earth and good will to men." — who are engaged in the work of charity, the work of human kindness, of love and forgiveness, people who are looking after the interests of mankind, and of the sex, and who are trying to build them up in righteousness, purity, faith, and in obedience to the laws of God; women who are engaged in a work, not only in administering temporal blessings and in temporal good and consolation to the children of men, but women who are engaged also in promulgating the pure principles of the gospel, the work of truth, to the children of men. And I believe that the Relief Societies of the Church were never in a better condition, than today. I feel encouraged, and I am delighted with the progress that is being made by the daughters and mothers of Zion. From the depth of my soul, I have but one desire toward all these good women, who are engaged in this noble cause, and that is, God bless them, preserve their lives, help them to be firm and true in their integrity to the cause of Zion; and help them to feel in their souls that there is nothing that ought to be put in advance of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and nothing else better than the Church beneath the celestial kingdom. The Church possesses God's power, righteousness, truth and divine authority, to do his will on the earth, in con- "PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN." 17 tradistinction to all the man-made churches and institutions of the world. We have people amongst us, it is true, who will set up their ideas of purity against the doctrine of Christ, against the laws of the gospel of Christ, and against the interests of the kingdom of God. We have a few amongst us who will do it, who are guilty of this. Thank God they are not many, that they are so few, and I would that there were none of them amongst us. I congratulate our dear Aunt Em, the President of the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church. God has preserved her to a good old age. Not only has he preserved her health and her life, but he has preserved unto her her mentality, her mental powers and her activities, and I feel grateful for it, and I hope that she will continue to be preserved, and that she will continue to progress and help the cause of the Relief Society to progress in all that is good, and uplifting; and, above all other things, to help the people for whom she labors, and over whom she presides, and with whom she may have influence, and help the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints above everything else in this world. It is time that we all should help this cause, and those who do not do it will find, by and by, that they have missed their mark, just as sure as you are born. Now, my sisters, I am speaking from my point of view, and my point of view is that Christ was divinely appointed and sent into the world to relieve mankind of sin through repentance; to relieve mankind from the death which came upon them by the sin of the first man. I believe it with all my soul. I believe that Joseph Smith was raised up by Almighty God to renew the spirit, power and plan of God's Church, of Christ's gospel and holy priesthood. I believe it with all my soul, or I would not be here. I therefore stand upon this principle, that the truth is in the gospel of Jesus Christ, that the power of redemption, the power of peace, the power for good will, love, charity and forgiveness, and the power for fellowship with God, abides in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in obedience to it on the part of the people. I therefore admit, and not only admit but claim, that there is nothing greater on earth, nor in heaven, than the truth of God's gospel, which he has devised and restored for the salvation and the redemption of the world. And it is through that that peace will come to the children of men, and it will not come to the world in any other way. The nations cannot possess it without they come to God, from whom they are to receive the spirit of union and the spirit of love. And those organizations in the world, created with a view to combining men, possess in them so many of the elements of self-destruction that they can not exist long, as they are, and under the influences which hold them together today, I can tell you that there is no combination formed by men that will prosper and continue to endure, unless it is based upon the principle of truth, righteousness and justice toward all. When a man comes to me and says: "You must be my servant, you must obey me or conform to my plan, or we will starve you to death," I don't care how many elements of goodness there are in the organization that will exclude me from a right to worship God according to the dictates, conscience, of mv labor honest to earn my would bread, prevent the it possesses me elements from laboring in''' of decay and destruction, and it cannot last, for it is wrong, absolutely wrong. In the gospel is the light of freedom. Men worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. We cannot compel you to be saved, nor can we compel you to obey the principles of the gospel at all. In the words of the poet: "Know this, that every man is free To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. "He'll call, persuade, direct aright, Bless him with wisdom, love and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind." That is the principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Rut these man-made organizations will force you to do as they will, or they will damn you and destroy you; and therein lies the element of self-destruction in themselves, because they can only last for a time. Truth only can abide. Now, let us listen to some of these things, my brethren and sisters, for I tell you they are true. Again, I understand that the General Board of the Relief Society are prepared to publish a magazine in the interests of Relief Society work throughout the Church; and there is one thing abut it I would like to see made prominent, and that is that it be made an instrument which will reach the hearts and the understandings of all the sisters, of all the people of the Church; and, above all things, that the Relief Society shall be organized and adhered to by the young as well as by the aged, so that wherever there is affliction in the country in which that organization exists. that the society will be in a condition to look it up, and administer for the good and the salvation of those who are afflicted. I have heard of several instances, of late, in which a sister was very sick, and very poor, and the neighbors around, without regard to the Relief Society, were being called upon to give a little something to help, or to '^o and help for an hour or two, as the case may be, or, as they could spare the time. Where is the Relief Society? What "PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN." 19 is the Relief Society doing in that ward? When the Relief Society is not looking after that widow, or that poor woman, or those parentless children, or the sick or the afflicted, what is it doing? What is the Relief Society doing when you are calling upon the neighbors irrespective of it, to wait upon the sick and the afflicted women in their suffering? Now I presume that perhaps when these things were called to the attention of the Relief Society, that it took them in hand. I am going to repeat a little story that I have told a good many times. On one occasion I visited a distant branch of the Church, in a distant ward of Zion, and it was in the season of the year when malarial fever was prevalent. There were many people of the town, at least, where I stopped, who were suffering with malarial fever. The moment I landed from the car, I was invited by the president to go with him and visit the sick, which we did. We called on them, visited them, and administered to them. And, in each case, after administering and making some little inquiries, and looking into the condition, we found, and particularly, I will say, we found, in the one instance I am going to relate: a good sister, who came into the house where the mother of the little family lay prostrate upon her bed, and her husband distracted for fear she was going to pass away, the little children helpless, — she came into the room with a basket laden with excellent fruit or food, and other preparations which the children and the family that she was nourishing needed. She took the little children, washed and combed them, and prepared them to sit down to the table. Then she spread food upon the table, and sat the little children around it to eat. Then she turned and administered to the sick mother, and she remained there during, at least, the fore part of the night. I asked, "How is this done?" "Well," she said, "our Relief Society is doing it. The Society is providing these things; I am only acting here for