— Editor.) Clothing for the Woman Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. "And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty, the beauty of the work of thine own hands." — Doc. & Cov., 42:40. Latter-day Saint women should be exemplary in their dress, worthy of being imitated. Our bodies are sacred; they should be clothed to express simplicity and modesty. The narrow skirt, the low-cut bodice, and the short sleeves should be avoided. "Example is better than precept." It is woman's privilege and duty to dress becomingly, to look her best, to dress well; and it is possible to dress economically, if we use our brains. When we are approaching the autumn of life, greater care and attention should be given to our appearance than ever before. When we reach a mature age, prevailing fashions should be considered carefully: the extreme avoided, and a style selected and adjusted to suit the figure and complexion. Colors should be studied. Dark greens, greys, purples, navy blue, and seal brown are appropriate shades for the woman of forty. Color has its effect on the personality, or, shall I say, the soul. This is true not only as to the wearer, but there is a definite effect, produced by the color of our clothing upon those with whom we mingle. Avoid black, when possible, as it is trying at this time in life. It is an old adage that, "the best is the cheapest;" and in looking for quality, we can't find anything better than the beautiful, enduring materials made at our Provo Woolen Mills. Sisters, when shopping, inquire for these goods. The merchants will then realize the necessity of keeping a stock on hand. The best material does not wear out in one season. By occasionally remodeling our dresses, a good appearance may be obtained. Take, for illustration, the one-piece dress! To remodel, combine it with contrasting goods, or use the added material of the same, and make a long over-skirt, with girdle. With a few changes in the waist, your gown is wearable and pretty. It is possible to make a one-piece dress out of your last season's jacket and skirt. The popular materials are Tight-weight — gaberdine, poplins, Panamas, serge, and broadcloth. It is economy for every woman to have a good-fitting skirt and waist pattern. Then she can make her waists at odd times to match her suit; crepe de chine and soft taffetas wear well. Three yards of eighteen-inch silk will make a tailored waist. The old-fashioned method of sewing should again be taught our girls. The slip-shod way of sewing or throwing cloth together today can not but have its effect upon the minds of the rising generation.