Notes from the Field. Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. The first organized stake of Zion in this intermountain region was the Salt Lake stake. The first Stake Board of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was organized in 1877. There were then 46 branches scattered throughout the city and the county. That splendid pioneer mother, M. Isabella Home, was at that time made president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and this position she held for nearly thirty years. Out of Salt Lake City and County have been organized seven stakes, each with its separate officers and distinct religious autonomy. In April, 1904, Mrs. Clarisssa S. Williams was chosen President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society which position she held until Sept. 26, 1908, when she was released in order to give more time to the work of the General Board of which she was Treasurer. Her counselor. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, was then made President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, which position she holds to the present time. Shortly after she went into office, Mrs. Williams instituted weekly meetings, as it was considered impossible to accomplish everything desired, in the monthly or semi-monthly meetings. Studies have been outlined and printed, and great activity along all lines has constantly marked the work of this great, original stake. Three years ago, under the direction of the priesthood, special meetings were called and missionaries appointed to visit every woman in the stake. This accomplished a great deal of good. Since the General Board have issued outlines, this stake has chosen committees of three to take charge of the genealogical study, and of the mother's work. Monthly meetings are held in the famous old Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall. This is a united Board, and a spirit of cheerful activity permeates every branch of their work. Ogden Stake. Out of the many stakes which have been organized in the past five years, the Ogden stake is, perhaps, one of the most active. It was organized on the 19th of July, 1908. the Ogden stake being an of shoot from Weber stake. There are ten wards in the stake, and the stake and ward officers hold weekly stake board meetings in connection with the presidency of the stake, and the 
 other auxiliary stake boards. These union meetings are prefaced three times a month with preliminary, private officers' meetings. The fourth week, they hold an open meeting with the Stake Presidency for reports and counsel. Some idea of the effectiveness of the work of this stake can be gleaned from the following statistics: In the past year, the average attendance at Stake Board meetings was seventy-five per cent. The Stake Board officers made two hundred seventy-five visits to local branches, and five hundred eighty-eight visits to the sick. There was an average attendance at the local meeting of twenty-five per cent; seventy three per cent of the families of the ward were visited each month by the visiting teachers. Aside from this, there were 3,083 special visits to the sick. This, with the 588 visits made by the Stake Board, forms a total of 3,671 visits to the sick during the year. The stake officers have appointed a committee of three from their stake who have a special care over the invalids, the aged, and those who are unable to leave their homes to attend meetings. There are 188 teachers in this stake,* and in the six years of its existence, they have expended for charity alone, the sum of $5,584.20. They have given the usual help to ward and stake enterprises; have had bazzars and entertainments which have raised in the three years $3,597.60. Each ward has donated liberally, and the grand total is $13,666.73 which they have received and disbursed. Changes have been made in the Board, but the first officers were: President Martha Taylor, and Counselors Isabel B. Foulger and L. Letitia Richards, with Nellie Beecraft, Secretary. Perhaps the most satisfactory feature of their work is the beautiful harmony which prevails in this stake between the Presiding Priesthood and the officers of the Relief Society.  New Cottonwood Stake. We are pleased to announce the birth of another stake of Zion. This lusty infant is an offshoot from the great Granite stake of Zion, whose borders have become so extended that our leaders found it imperative to divide up territory and responsibility. The organization was effected November 29th, 1914. At this time, a partial organization of a stake board for the Relief Society was also made, and the following officers were chosen to preside over the Cottonwood stake Relief Society: President, Amanda Bagley; First Counselor, Mrs. Nellie Cornwall; Second Counselor, Mrs. Rhena Wheeler. A Prince of Ur. Homespun. CHAPTER I. The sun was rising in in dimmed glory on the towers and walls of the great city of Ur. Motley crowds of Assyrians, rude Turanians, from the upper hill country of the north, richly-clad Babylonians in costly palanquins, or, if on foot, attended by fierce soldiery, jostled the foot passengers who were hurrying to get in or to get out of the great gates as they were opened for the day. "Dog of a Turanian," growled a slight, olive-skinned Tarshish merchant, who was nearly pushed into the long, narrow trough of yellowish limestone which stood just outside the massive western gates. "Hast thou no care for thy head nor thy limb? Then, why endanger another's?" The slave who had himself been pressed outward by the crowding behind him, bent low to the earth and groveled at the feet of the enraged traveler. "Thou wast ever a fool; the God of nature cannot change thy nature. O son of Cush; the gods must needs forgive thee, so I can forgive thee also." The slave was slipping away through the press of struggling humanity at the edge of the city's greatness, when the merchant traveler stopped him again and demanded: "Who hath put up this gorgeous fountain, since last I was in the city of the Moon-god?" The slave again prostrated himself before the now mollified merchant and replied in the gutteral tongue of his northern hills: "If thou canst hear my speech, then may I tell thee?" The merchant nodded. He was the true cosmopolite. His business existed by means of his own and others' tongues. "This newly carved fountain is the work of the Petesi's master-carver, Azzi-Jaami." "So!" The merchant gazed admiringly on the figures of the two women at opposite ends of this stone trough, standing with outstretched hands, passing to each other vases from which gushed forth the two streams of water, filling the reservoir constantly for the free use of men and beasts whose business or pleasure might lead them that way. "The skill of Azzi-Jaami is used in many directions. He is a very great artist. Methinks he lies in danger to his gods," mused the merchant. The slave made no reply, for he well knew that none was 
 expected of him. Instead, he drew courage from the abstraction of the traveler to rise and again slide into the congested mass of human beings who were crowding in and out of the great city gates, prodded and harried as most of them were by the city guards with sharp swords and long javelins in their hands. Just as the full rays of the revealed sun beat glowingly upon the double leaves of the ponderous gates, now opening wide, a dusty horseman, the outrider of a large party of approaching horsemen, raised his hand in a token or sign of some kind, and instantly the gates swung back swiftly upon their bronze posts built into the thirty-foot walls surrounding the city of Ur. "The horseman is the horseman of the Prince of Ur, the sign is the sign of kingly authority, and the party must contain either the prince himself, or his father, the Petesi. In either case it behooves me to wait," mused the irascible traveler, whose slender form and brilliant face seemed equally as accustomed to smiles as to frowns. The sky is bluer when seen through occasional clouds. Up from the plains of the distant north, came a rapid cavalcade of shepherd soldiers, whose broad scimitars and white turbans, with wide flowing veils of snowy whiteness, had a look of simple strength and vigor that contrasted well with the panoplied warriors of the Assyrian soldiery near the gateway. "Make way for the Prince," shouted the sentries, and the crowds, already pressed within and without with stifling haste, screamed as they fled from the strokes of sword or stave; but at least, the path was cleared for the oncoming party. "The Prince of Ur, by all that awaits me in life" said the traveler. But he made no move to join or to intercept the long cavalcade now trotting under the long, high gateway. All of the shepherd host were tall, all were lithe and sinewy, all were very alert and haughty in their supreme bodily control. But he that sat upright on his snow-white charger, nearly at the head of the party, yet surrounded by a dozen eager guards, who scanned the multitude and swept the very heavens with their challenging eyes of midnight glow, needed no guard to protect his majestic presence from defilement, nor soldiers to add to his gracious dignity. For that very unfathomable reason, he was the human magnet that drew all service to meet his own ends, and he attracted abject obedience with his simple, quiet presence. "Twenty years is a long time," again mused the merchant, speaking his thought aloud. "Longer than love, and more destructive than doubt," answered a voice at his elbow. The merchant turned quickly. "Fools and brawlers interrupt the meditations of the wise!" The traveler gazed keenly into the other olive-skinned face now turned quietly towards him. "Open thine eyes, Javanu, and sharpen thy wits.