Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Born Dec. 23, 1805. Martyred June 27, 1844. 


 

Greetings and Sentiments President Emmeline B. Wells and the General Board are exceedingly grateful and happy to open this magazine and this year with the greetings of our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, who is the son of our martyred honored Patriarch, Hyrum Smith, and the nephew of the adored Prophet, Joseph Smith. President Smith and wife Julina L. Smith, accompanied by President Charles W. Penrose and Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Bishop C. W. Nibley and Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, Apostles Geo. A. Smith and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., with Miss Emily Smith, daughter of the President, have been on a profitable trip to Independence, Jackson Co., Missouri, to Florida, El Paso and Los Angeles. It is from there that the following telegram came to President E. B. Wells: Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Ocean Park, Cal., Dec. 5, 1914. General Board of the Relief Society: Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of the Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious. Joseph F. Smith. 
 From the General Board of the Relief Society. SYMPATHY. And if some sympathy we can bestow, Because we've felt the agony of pain; Then let us minister while here below — The little time that we may yet remain; And strive to make some recompense to heaven, For the few talents to our keeping given. Let us cherish sympathy, for it is the incentive and inspiration to every noble and generous deed. The three graces — Charity, Hope, and Faith — all are actuated by the force of sympathy. It is sympathy with the great Master's teachings which produces faith in him and radiates hope in the soul; it is sympathy with the sufferings and sorrows of humanity which prompts the tender words and opens the heart to give of those things which make for peace and happiness. There could be no pleasure in life were it not for sympathy, for form, sound and color make their appeal to the heart, and the sympathetic chord responds, producing that harmony which alone gives joy and delight. It is the sympathetic response in the soul that warms to the glow of the sunshine, and saddens to the gloom of the shadow — making life, richer, and deeper, and better with the years' ebb and flow. Sympathetic expression is the beautiful gift of some people, but ofttimes the tender handclasp, the silent embrace, or the gentle kiss, speak more than words to those in sorrow and express the love of an overflowing heart. True sympathy is self-forgetfulness and the most perfect expression of love. It is the slender tendril which twines itself among the graces of the soul, binding and cementing friendship and human ties throughout all time. Love withheld brings vain regrets, whilst love bestowed brings sweet content. Emmeline B. Wells. Our Savior's teachings tell us that the Spirit of Charity should direct our labors among our fellow men, and St. Paul emphasized the sentiment when he said, "Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, and endureth all things." and he further wrote that if we have not charity we are as nothing. When the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the great mission of love and charity to women, and instructed them to feed the poor and unfortunate, to comfort the sick and the afflicted, he manifested the same spirit as expressed by our Savior and the prophets. Thus he opened the way for women to exercise the motherly instincts inherent in them. Clarissa S. Williams. A woman who would make a success of her life must endeavor to make her home an altar of peace, love and companionship. Her husband should rest confident in her gentle solicitude, and her children trust in her unfailing wisdom. Such an ideal does not imply wealth, education nor brilliant gifts. Faith, affection, fidelity, industry, and above all, integrity, constitute the requirements for such a happy woman's life and success. Julina L. Smith. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Charity does more than give to the needy, — it sympathizes with those in distress, comforts those who mourn, forgives those who do wrong; charity seeks to build up rather than to tear down character; it refrains from unkind or unfair criticism. It helps those who are weak to rise and then assists in sustaining them. "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Amy Brown Lyman. Let me be true to the counsel of my husband, loyal to my bishop, obedient to the Prophet of the Lord, and quick to take their counsel or reproof, and I shall be safe and at peace, though the heavens fall, and the earth rolls up as a scroll. Susa Young Gates. Let us be so thankful for all that makes life happy and comfortable for us, that it will be our constant desire to extend to others a helping hand, remembering always that in the opportunity of being of service to others, we are really the favored ones. Emma A. Empey. It is an age of obedient parents; and so, at the command of my children, I lay down my book and close my eyes to rest them — until I am alone. Then I will reopen my Bible, the dearest of my book friends, and read again. If I had had the advantages, fifty years ago, that the young people have today, I might have amounted to something. Sarah Jenne Cannon. GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS. The building up of the Kingdom of God should be first in our hearts. The Lord works on earth through the medium of his sons and daughters. We are all his children in our spiritual part. "Charity never faileth," and, as members of the Relief Society in true charity work, we labor for him and he rewards us by giving us blessings and leading us by his Holy Spirit. Relief Society work is vast, extending to the ends of the earth, and only by united and continuous effort can it be accomplished. It is not in the giving of alms alone, as we learn from Paul, (I. Corinthians, chap 13) but to comfort and strengthen spiritually, to encourage the weak to greater faith and hope and to be charitable to the shortcomings of others. The Relief Society demands that we be humble, faithful, and true. Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Love covers a multitude of sins. When a scar cannot be taken away, the next kind office is to hide it. Love is like the painter who, drawing the picture of a friend having a blemish in one eye, would picture only the other side of his face. It is a noble and great thing to cover the blemishes and to excuse the failings of a friend; to draw a curtain before his stains, and to display his perfections; to bury his weakness in silence, but to proclaim his virtues on the house-tops. "Any heart turned toward God feels more joy in one short hour of prayer, than ever was experienced in all the feasts on earth since its foundation. "In the morning, prayer is the key that opens to us the treasure of God's mercies and blessings; in the evening, it is the key that shuts us up under his protection and care." Emily S. Richards. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We, as the children of one great Eternal Parent, in this big world of ours, are cemented by a bond of common interest, a tie of universal love, — if we cultivate our affections unselfishly, if we follow the teachings of our Savior, "Do unto others as we wish to be done by." For as every star in the firmament tends to light up the heavens by night, so will each good deed, noble life, and worthy thought of our Latter-day Saint women assist in brightening, bettering, and glorifying the name of our Heavenly Father's people, for such we profess to be. Julia P. M. Farnsworth. "Charity never faileth." Phebe Y. Beatie. "God thought to give the sweetest thing In His almighty power, To earth, and deeply pondering What it should be — one hour In fondest joy and love of heart Outweighing every other, He moved the gates of Heaven apart, And gave to earth — a mother." Ida Dusenberry. GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS. TO MY SISTER. WITH LOVE, WHEREVER SHE MAY BE. When all my prayers and dreams come true, This is the sketch I'd make of you: A chastened soul, of modest mien, (Akin to many I have seen;) A gentlewoman, filled with trust In one Great Father, kind as just; A vested Faith which bade her see The glorious "Truth that made her free." Until by perfect works she shows The "better part" that Mary chose. Thorny the road ofttimes and drear, But strong her purpose — her vision clear; Her star with kindled light leads on (Would I were steadfast thus till Dawn). Lord, help me, by Thy grace divine, To follow close this sister mine, For soon, aye, very soon, 'twill be Not Time but vast Eternity. Carrie S. Thomas. Motherhood is the culmination of mortal joy. Alice Merrill Home. 
 It has been said that charity should begin at home, and so it should; but sometimes we let the charity at home wait, to help those who seem more in need. We often forget ourselves, in looking after others; and now, when the cry comes from afar, and we know that our brothers and sisters are in great distress, we are likely to put our home charity off. Let us try to divide our bounty. We have many here who need our thoughts and help; many right here are suffering from the effects of the war. They are not in it, but labor in many places has been stopped, and men and women have been thrown out of employment, and must be taken care of. So let us, while thinking of those in the countries where war is raging, not forget those who have been made to suffer by the effects of the war. And so, we must think of charity at home, and not forget that God is the ruler over all. Priscilla P. Jennings. Save the children. It is easier to maintain them in health than to heal them from sickness. It is easier to train them in righteousness than to reclaim them from evil. But never despair. With the help of Heavenly Father, the most desperate cases of sin or sickness may be cured. Elisabeth S. Wilcox. To one at peace be must with God and seek consistently and constantly for the spirit of inspiration and truth. This, coupled with obedience to the Priesthood, will provide the best of working rules for the members and officers of the Relief Society. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley. GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS. 11 That we may be true to God, kind and merciful to each other, and that we may learn by the trials we pass through, the patience, wisdom, and forbearance which will make Latter-day Saints of us, is the sincere wish of your humble servant. Elisabeth C. McCune. Alma 37:36-37: "Yea, and cry unto God for all thy support; yea, let all thy doings be unto the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest, let it be in the Lord; yea, let thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord; yea, let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever. "Counsel the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night, lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the morning, let thy heart be full of thanks unto God; and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day." Edna May Davis. "O ye that embark in the service of God, see that you serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day."— (Doctrine and Covenants.) Sarah E. McLelland. To think right, is to live right. If our thoughts are pure and uplifting, so will our actions be. Carlyle says: "Thoughts once awakened do not slumber." How necessary, then, it is for us not to entertain unwise or evil thoughts, but to encourage such only as will enable us to lead noble lives. Elisabeth Carrie Crismon. 
 Ingratitude is the supreme moral crime of the present age. Would that in the catalogue of listed prizes for improved conditions, morally, spiritually, socially and physically, we would offer an exceptional prize to those manifesting the most pronounced evidence of real gratitude. Janette A. Hyde. Our Magazine, "A Gift from God." What is its mission? To draw from the Well of Eternal Life, the best it has to give, and send it forth into your life and mine, opening our understanding to the larger life of perfect service in our Father's Kingdom. Sarah Eddington. The art committee of the General Board of the Relief Society have designed a stamp which is to be the seal of this Society. For this year, lack of time will prevent its use except upon postal cards for Christmas. The design represents the Rock of Revelation on the right of the picture, with a woman standing on the rock, holding a sheaf of wheat in her hands. Over her head shines the Star of Bethlehem. At the foot of the Rock are grouped a feeble old man, and a woman with little children about her knees. These are the helpless and needy ones symbolized thus who reach out to the extended hands of the symbolized figure on the Rock of Revelation, pleading for help. The stamp is all in symbol. It was painted in color by Miss Lillian B. Connelly, and is considered an excellent piece of work. The seal necessarily will be done only in photographic light and shade, but we suggest to our friends and sisters who wish to purchase Christmas postal cards to send away, that this will form a very fine gift, and will also spread the good news of our work abroad. The cards cost five cents each, and are on sale at Z. C. M. I., the Bureau of Information, and Hotel Utah. Any stake desiring these cards either for Christmas cards or for ordinary purposes, can secure them by mail, by addressing Mrs. Emma A. Empey, 180 East South Temple, Salt Lake City.