Home Gardening for Women. Janette A. Hyde. May we hope from the small beginning of last year's outlines, in home gardening and flower, raising, that some good has been accomplished — at least in arousing sufficient interest to plan for a larger and better kitchen garden than ever before. One of the main objects in placing these articles before our women was to create an atmosphere of family co-operation and common interests in the home; that children might learn helpfulness from such small beginnings as working in a kitchen garden. , They will also discover the value of cultivating the soil, the wonderful results obtained from working and improving vacant property in cities and towns. Such intelligently directed toil helps children to appreciate the privilege of assisting in planning the garden, while they also form a partnership with mother. Above all else, such careful utilization of opportunities creates a spirit of independence and thrift. There is also the economical value of the great lesson gained when the boy and girl discover what is required in labor and material to feed themselves. After the holiday season is over, and we are settled in the regular routine of daily life, we begin to think over and plan the work soon to be undertaken for our kitchen garden. We get out the catalogues, or send for new ones, look over the bulletins sent out last season by Senator Smoot, from the United States Agricultural Department, or from those sent by Dr. Widtsoe, of our own Agricultural College, of Logan. We carefully consider the possibilities of our own climate, the plot of ground which we have selected, and note that our climatic conditions are the same as, or similar to, those described in the different catalogues and bulletins, which treat of climate and soil. Then we consider the fertilizing propositions, with husband and children, and if the garden plot was not properly fertilized in the fall, we plan to do it now. We must make sure of the right beginning, which is fertilization and an abundance of it at the proper season of the year. All this studying, planning, and consideration, will form a basis upon which we may form some kind of an estimate as to our success in our past efforts in kitchen gardening, and just what will be wise for us to do in the coming season. The women of the Relief Society have made a splendid beginning in Home Gardening, because of our required lesson work during the year 1914. Let us not go backward nor lapse into an indifferent condition in this matter, — because our work is now left to our own pleasure.