GUIDE LESSONS. 41 it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D. and C. 130:20, 21). Illustrations of Obedience. ? That obedience is required from those who become and remain members of the Church of Christ, should not surprise any intelligent student of political science, nor even a casual observer of the everyday life of men and nations. All governments demand from their people obedience to the laws enacted for the general welfare. Without such obedience, there would be no peace, no protection. This is readily conceded by most men as to human governments; but some people think it strange that divine government should be administered upon like principles, and for similar, though higher, ends. A friend of mine once said to me: "Why do I need to belong to a church, to subscribe to a creed, or to undergo any ordinance, in order to be saved? I have always been truthful, honest, virtuous, benevolent ? why will this not suffice to make and pave my way to heaven?" Aliens and I answered on this wise: "Let me use a comparison Naturalization. to illustrate the point. Suppose you were an alien, born in Great Britain, in Scandinavia, or in some other foreign land, and you came to America desiring to become a citizen of the United States. When told that you must take out citizenship papers, forswear allegiance to every foreign power, and honor and uphold the Constitution and laws of this Republic ? suppose you were to reply: 'Why, what is the need of all that? I am a good man, I have always done right, and am clean, moral, and upright in conduct and conversation ? why is that not sufficient to entitle me to vote, to hold office, pre-empt land, and enjoy all rights and privileges of an American freeman?' Do you think such a plea would avail? No, you do not. You see its inconsistency as quickly as would the government unto whom it might be made. You would not expect to become a citizen of the United States upon your own terms. Why, then, should you hope for admittance into God's kingdom upon any other conditions than those which the King himself has laid down?" Man's Proper Attitude. ? Truthfulness, honesty, virtue, and benevolence are precious possessions, inestimable treasures. They enrich the soul under all conditions, outside or inside the kingdom of God; but they are not valuable enough to purchase a passport into that kingdom. We must not count upon our personal qualities, however admirable and commendable, to gain us admission into the divine presence. Man's proper attitude, as a seeker for salvation, is one of humility, not of self-righteousness. When the Pharisee and the Publican prayed in the Temple at Jerusalem, the former thanking the Lord that he was better than other men, and the latter meekly murmuring: "God be merciful to me, a sinner," the Savior, pointing to the Publican, said: That man is justified, rather than the other, "for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 18:13, 14). Obedience Better Than Sacrifice. ? "Obedience is better than sacrifice." So said obedient Samuel to disobedient Saul. Adam's obedience in offering sacrifice without knowing why, simply because the Lord had commanded him (Moses 5:6); Abraham's obedience in offering Isaac ? for the same reason ? was far more precious in the sight of heaven than the sacrifice itself. In Abraham's case the will was taken for the deed, and the Father of the Faithful was blessed as abundantly as if the sacrifice had been consummated. Dead Letter and Living Oracle. ? Suppose, however, that Abraham had not obeyed the Lord's second command, "Lay not thy hand upon the lad." In that event he would have been in transgression, and could not have been blessed any more than if he had disobeyed in the first instance. In the face of that second command, he could not have pleaded consistently that he was under obligation to obey the first. "My word is my law," saith the Lord, and his latest word, even though it seem to contradict an earlier behest from the same source, must always be given precedence. The choice in such a case is between the dead letter and the living oracle. Genealogy. Lesson III ? Salvation Universal. 1. The origin and purpose of the Plan of Salvation. 2. The fundamental principles of the Plan of Salvation. 3. Its application to all men. 4. The salvation of little children. 5. Vicarious baptism for the dead. 6. Illustrations on vicarious work and atonement. 7. Definition of general and individual salvation. 8. The "prison" for the disobedient. 9. The bridging of the "gulf" in the spirit world. 10. The preaching of Christ to the spirits in prison. 11. Degrees of punishment and glory. 12. Scriptural teachings on salvation for the dead. 13. The mission of Elijah. 14. Latter-day Temples. 15. The rejection of those who refuse to do work for the dead. 16. Organization of Genealogical Societies and publication of genealogies. *See Lesson Book on Genealogy. GUIDE LESSONS. 43 17. The responsibility on Church members regarding this work. 18. The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith on the subject. 19. What can be done by the Latter-day Saints? QUESTIONS. What is the Plan of Salvation? How can it be made to apply to all men? What is vicarious salvation? What do we understand by a spiritual prison-house? What does Peter say in regard to the spirits in prison? Quote the Prophet's words on the subject of our responsibility towards our dead. Home Ethics and Art. HOME ETHICS. Lesson IV ? Ideal Human Character. (a) Ethics is the science of the ideal human character. Therefore, we begin our year's study with an inquiry into the character of the Latter-day Prophet. (b) A great writer has said that the measurement of greatness is the number of people who love and honor a man, and those whom he loves and benefits. (c) Of all who have benefited by the Prophet's life and work, none owe him so great a debt as do the women of the Relief Society. (d) His courageous obedience to the word of the Lord, his magnetic leadership, his oratory, his poetic insight into human nature, his benevolence to all, his purity, and his untiring devotion to truth, make the Prophet a tower of strength and light for time and eternity. (e) All other gifts and powers of his mind would have counted him as nothing had he failed in his integrity to his mission. (f) All created beings have the same claim on the Creator that the Prophet had? provided each will obey the law of life, here and hereafter. QUESTIONS. What man's teachings in the Nineteenth century have had the greatest influence on humanity? Give the reason for this. 
 Why do Relief Society women love and revere his name? Which attribute was strongest in his character? How do we know this has been the case? Give an example of his wonderful influence and its effect. How does the guidance of that good Spirit help in our home circle? ART. Lesson V ? Foreword. Fear God, and give glory to him; * * * and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters. ? Rev. 14:7. Deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; * * * remember that every good gift cometh of Christ. ? Nephi. His foundation is in the holy mountains. a. Review the December lesson on John Hafen. b. Read the Foreword to Devotees and their Shrines. There is something each of you likes best to do: What is it? c. Read "Introductory." Which picture do you like best? Why? Tell the great quality each picture has. Tell some of the essentials for art. Why can't all the good qualities come in one picture? (Simplicity would be lost). The beautiful picture on our cover is one of the four bas-reliefs on the base of the exquisite Sea-gull Monument in the Temple Square, by our artist, M. M. Young. This picture formed the cover design of one of the late numbers of Current Literature. The artist is a grandson of President Brigham Young. His work is dwelt upon by Mrs. Home in our text-book. Devotees and their Shrines. EDITORIAL NOTES. In sending in subscriptions to the Magazine, kindly name the postoffice address as well as the town. Write Christian and surnames clearly; also write Mrs. or Miss before the names. Please ask those sending in names also to mention stake and ward to which they belong. SHOP EARLY We call special attention of Relief Society Shoppers and friends in general to the Relief Society