BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Babyhood is a theme mighty in minutae!
truly "a day of small things," the A B C of life
in this stage of existence, that ushers every hu-
man being upon the grand Theatre of the world,
yet is the foundation laid then for the character
which the infantile being shall hereafter sustain.
To woman especially it is a deeply interesting
study, for she has been ordained in the councils
of Eternity the producer and sustainer of the
human family, as well as the fosterer and in-
structor of these embryo men and women.
	Heaven is about us in our infancy, for if an
infant has a fine, healthy organization, and is
properly attended by an intelligent mother, it
will be a personification of angelic life. Many
desire children, but few realize the mighty re-
sponsibility that such gifts call down upon the
possessor!

"A spark is kindled then
That never can be quench'd again;
Whole ages down the stream of time
Shall dawn upon that soul of mine,
Yet never see that soul decline.
Yes! ages hence, and it shall be
As in its pristine vigor free!
Worlds shall be born and pass away,
But still it shall not know decay."

	These thoughts teach the mother to think,
urge her to strain every faculty, every intelli-
gence with which she has been endowed to
benefit and improve her offspring. The first
year she should dedicate exclusively to her in-
fant; no work, no business, no pleasure should
stand between her and it; after that such close
attention and watching may in a degree be dis-
pensed with. The first ten years of life almost
form the character; or at any rate give that
strong bias which, if good, no after influence can
entirely eradicate, and if evil, alas! what an un-
dertaking to undo and erase such tuition! The
infant is, in one sense, the most important per-
sonage in the household—some one says: "Truly
we are born princes." It is an imperative being,
and everything gives way before its baby sove-
reignity. Peace and gentleness should be the
atmosphere it breathes; no loud noises or rude,
harsh language should shock its tender ear,
The song that lulls it to rest should be low, soft
and loving. It should never be allowed to cry
to make its wants known, for they should be an-
ticipated and prepared for beforehand. A baby
brings with it one of the most prominent fea-
tures of heaven, viz., order; regularity and punc-
tuality seem peculiar to its nature. It should
be washed, dressed, fed and undressed with un-

[Column 2]
varying exactitude, and its sleep will then par-
take of the same precision. It should never be
allowed when in health to sleep on the lap of its
nurse; I know it is pleasing to some young
mothers to allow this, but a wise mother will
not permit her feelings, even those which spring
from love, to engender bad habits in herself or
child; this would be injurious to both—for while
the child is laid away in its quiet bed she can
perform some of the principal duties of the day,
and be ready to receive it on its awaking. In
England every well-regulated family, where
only two servants even are kept, have a nursery
for their children; and the good of this plan
could only be known by experience. It is a
large, airy room, with no more furniture in it
than is absolutely necessary—a table, wardrobe
for the children's clothes, commodes chairs, no
carpet, except a rug at the hearth for nurse or
mother. All their playthings are in this sanc-
tum, and everything they need—they take their
meals there, and such as are suitable for chil-
dren. One of the servants is deputed to officiate
in this room when needed, and the mother
spends her mornings there, and whenever her
presence is needed in the small empire,mighty in
its minutae ! The parlor, or room of the house-
hold, can then be kept clean and quiet, and in
order for the parents or visitors, and is a sanctum
wherein they can rest in peace, and arrange
their plans of domestic economy, or converse
upon subjects that children have nothing to do
with. No one sho[-]ld sleep in the nursery, not
even the baby; let its crib be placed in its moth-
er's bed room. Cradles are not good, and often
engender indolence in the nurse. In warm
weather the baby should occupy its crib-bed at
night—it is highly injurious for an infant to
sleep in a bed with two adults; it is marvelous
that people do not see this evil at once, and set
it aside, for it seems to me to be a self-evident
fact.
	Infants should never be taken into crowded as-
semblies; the atmosphere of such places is de-
structive to their tender systems. They should
be much in the open air, but not into the glaring
sun, which is injurious to their tender eyes and
to their brain. Some may ignore some of my
remarks, but none will who have ever experi-
enced them. We have nurseries for our young
trees and plants, and for our young animals, and
there they are attended as their peculiar wants
demand; so should it be for the immortal beings
placed beneath our care. The nursery should
be an infant school, where the foundation is laid
for future life. Laws of order pertaining to their
age and understanding should there be taught,
the bigger children assisting in arranging and
keeping in order all within its precincts—such as
the juvenile wardrobe, the baby basket and its
things in general; this they will do with plea-
sure, for "the baby" is ever the pet of the house-
hold, and to wait and attend upon it is ever an
agreeable occupation to the older children, for
there is ever something so sweet and angelic in
a baby that is well nursed and attended to that
is delightful and agreeable to all eyes. And the
nursery the room of the children, shonld be a
place especially set apart for peace and inno-
cence. No conversation should be held there
but what is proper and instructive for children
to hear; no tale-bearing, no back-biting, or fault-
finding, or qarreling, must be allowed within its
holy precincts. We there raise up the young
scions of humanity for time and eternity, and
no seeds must be sown there that will hereafter
produce evil, perhaps seven-fold; no weeds al-
lowed to grow that will choke the progress of
the tender plants that sojourn therein. Such a
course will form an education for future life that
the learning of the schools can never give.
	Can we with all our care make our children
all we wish? No, there will be a difference;
but if on the one hand we cannot raise some to
the standard we desire, we shall find others who
will outstrip even our most sanguine expecta-
tions, and amply repay us for our toiling solici-
tude. And where the organization is good, and
the infant and youthful training has been wise,
and judicious, and prayerful, fear not; "cast thy
bread upon the waters, and thou shalt find it
after many days." Should wise counsels be re-
jected in yonth, should the nature be wild and
will not be bound, still, ye parents fear not, for
the good seed you have sown shall produce its
own. Cause and effect are eternal principles,
and life itself is the school of God, and trial and
sorrow are its lessons, and they bring reflection,
they soften and subdue nature, they carry back
the erring into the sunny days of childhood and
youth, with their bright but beautiful day-
dreams. They will recall the gentle lessons of
the nursery, where mother sat enthroned and

[Column 3]
swayed the sceptre of love over the children
God had given her; where she enforced virtue
and right principles—and they will verily realize
by experience how good they were, and they
will rise up and endeavor to show, even if it be
late, that they are worthy of the parents who so
nurtured them in their early days, and show
also that the Lord has not taken his Spirit from
them.
	I have given only a few hints; vast, vast is
the subject, but intelligence catches hints which
are suggestive. We are fed only by crumbs, es-
pecially the precious food that falls from the
table of our Father and our God!


