"XANTIPPE—A FRAGMENT."
			  BY AMY LEVY.
   In the May number of  the University Mag-
azine  appeared  a short  poem  entitled “Xan-
tippe; a Fragment,” which besides  being of
considerable interest  to  classical  scholars,
nobly expresses the indignation of true woman-
hood at the unjust subjection  in  which  women
have been kept.  The  novelty  of the  concep-
tion of Xantippe's character,  and  the  earnest
and thoughtful beauty of the  lines, tempt  the
writer of this brief  notice  to direct attention
to it.
   The name of Xantippe, the  celebrated  wife
of the  great  philosopher  Socrates, is more or
﻿less familiar to every one.  Her fame  has  not
been,  hitherto,  altogether  an  enviable  one.
She stands forth as the prototype of a “scold,”
and is very far from being a romantic and poe-
tic figure in  history.  That  this popular  view
of Socrates’ wife is  not  altogether  a just one;
there is some ground for supposing, and indeed
every reason to  believe  that  she  was a  very
true and attached wife and an excellent mother,
though undoubtedly of  a hasty and passionate
tempter.  Socrates himself,  is said to have  ad-
mitted that she always  influenced  him for  the
good.  It should be remembered too, in mitiga-
tion, that many  things  in  the life of  Socrates
must have been  sore trials  to his wife—for in-
stance, his devotion to  the fair Aspasia.  Still,
however this  may  be, the  hand is a  bold  one
which attempts to,in the face of the popular ver-
dict of  centuries, invest  her  with  a  character
totally foreign to that which has been assigned
her. This Miss Levy  does, and in some  very
beautiful, thoughtful  and  powerful lines, pro-
ceeds to  invest “Xantippe” with  an  interest
until now quite unthought of.
  At seventeen, Xantippe,  a  fair  Athenian
girl, stands “at life’s great  threshold  with a
beating  heart  and  soul,  resolved  to  conquer
and attain.” She sees Socrates in  the  public
places of the city, and her first instinctive feel-
ing is one of repugnance  at  his  uncouth  and
almost  deformed  appearance;  and  when  told
by her father that she is to  wed him—
	She foolish wept, to see at once cast down
	The maiden image of a future love,
	Where perfect body matched the perfect  soul.
But at length  the mighty  soul  of  the great 
philosopher sweeps  before  it this  repugnance,
and the young  maiden loses all  thought of the
uncouth frame, in  noting  the  magic flash of
genius in his  eye, and  listening to the flow of
his learned  eloquence.  Here  the  nobler
thoughts of the  maiden find  their  sequel, her
soul kindles  with the thought of the holy com-
munion of her mind  and his, and with dreams
of life, in  which, strenthened and  upheld  by
his majestic intellect, she may fathom the depths
of  the  unknown,  and  in  true  unison, pass
through  life  to  a  glorious  eternity,  not the
mere plaything, not the  household drudge, the
passive bearer of his children, but as true wife,
true helpmeet, and  kindred soul.  Her  early
and dawning dream is  realized, and in a noble
enthusiasm she  becomes the wife  of Socrates.
	Wed to him, the cruel truth is borne  in up-
on  her;  the  hopelessness  of  her  dreams, is re-
vealed  to  her.  The  philosopher  does not
wish for a  companion--does not seek  for such
in  woman.  He  treats  her  kindly, and gives
her raiment  and food; her mind does not exist
for him.  Yet she does not wish to blame him,
for he meant
	No evil, so I take it, to his wife;
	Twas only that the high philosopher
	Pregnant with noble theories and great thoughts,
	Deigned not to stoop to trust to slight a thing
	As the fine fabric of a woman's brain. 
	I think if he had stooped a little and cared,
	I might have risen nearer to his hight,
	And not been shattered, neither fit for use
	As goodly household vessel, nor for that 
	Far finer thing which I had hoped to be.
    Xantippe for a short time struggles with  her 
fate, and to her unresponsive lord urges her
thirst for real love. At length her spirit  is
broken, and  she  determines  to bend to  fate,
and leaving all her high aspirations unfulfilled,
to strive to become  the  thrifty  housewife; the
noble burst of angry and  eloquent  despair,  in
which  she  takes  this resolve, is exceeding
powerful. .  . ."Can it be
	That we poor women are empirical;
	That gods who fashioned us did strive to make
	Beings too fine, too subtly delicate,
	With sense that thrilled response to every touch
	Of nature;  and  their task is not complete;
	That they have sent their half completed work
	To bleed and quiver hero upon the earth?
	To bleed and quiver and to weep and weep,
	To beat its soul against the marble walls 
 	Of men's'cold hearts and then at last to die?
								 R. L. K.
—English Woman's  Review.


