SHAKING HANDS. 
			 ---------
	There are  many different  modes  of  greeting
among  civilized nations--raising  the hat, a bow.
a nod  a smile is all  that  is  expected  of all
acquaintance. Kissing, which is so  popular  at
present, is  often a mere  sham.  With regard to
kissing, the French say, "Your hand  for  an  ac-
quaintance, your cheek for  a  friend, and  your 
lips for your lover."  But it has been  carried to
such an extent that  you are expected to kiss  all
your lady  friends  every  time  you  meet them.
whether it  is  agreeable  or  not, and the kiss so
given is sometimes as false and cruel as the one
Judas once gave the Divine Master.
	Hand-shaking, as a manner of greeting, takes
precedence of all others, by reason of its greater
antiquity  and more universal usage.  We cannot
ascertain  definitely when  or  where the custom
originated, but  doubtless  it  has been  in  vogue
among  civilized nations  since  the  early feudal
times,  when it was employed as an assurance of
good faith, each  party giving  his weapon  hand
as proof  that he hand no hostile intentions.
	There are as  many varieties  of  hand-shaking
as  hand-writing, and  it  may be  considered  as
great an index to character.
 First, there  is  the  foppish  style, which con-
sists  in  merely pressing the tips of the  fingers,
which  is  no  hand-shaking  at  all, but merely a
pretense of friendliness.  Such a person is a fair-
weather  friend.  He  is  not  to  be relied upon,
but is a policy  individual  from  first  to last. If
it is to his interest, he will befriend you, other-
wise--you must look out for yourself.
	Then there is the  indifferent  individual, who
lays his cold hand in yours with a loose, clammy
touch,  and  as a Dickens  says  of  Uriah  Heep's
hand, "You  don't know what to do with  it, as
it does  nothing  for  itself."  Such a person has
no strength of character; he has no originality,
and would not dare to advance an opinion of his
own, but  stands hestiatingly, ready to coincide
with everything you say.
	Next comes  the  indefatigable  hand-shaker,
who grasps your hand so tightly that you cannot


withdraw it,  and  then  shakes,  and  talks, and
shakes, until you are so embarrassed and ill at
ease that you imagine all eyes are upon you, and
you are  correspondingly  awkward  and  uncom-
fortable.  This  method  of  shaking  hands  indi-
cates that the person who employs it possesses a
goodly  share  of  self-complacency,  and  always
imagines  that he is doing some one a great ser-
vice; and though it may originate in a desire to
reassure  you and place you at  your ease, it has
anything but the desired  effect.
 Next comes the nervous, energetic individual,
against whom  you  know  by former  experience
you  must  prepare  yourself  for  a  shock. You
unconsciously put your hand to your mouth, the 
better  to  secure  your  false  teeth, and when it
is  over  you  feel  that  you  have  reason to con-
gratulate yourself upon finding that your arm is 
not dislocated at the shoulder joint.
	Lastly there  is  the genuine hand-clasp - the
firm warm pressure of hand to hand, a medium
through which  friendly feeling may be  trans-
mitted from heart to heart, though never a word
be spoken.  How reassuring to be met by such a
person and  greeted  in such  a manner! How
pleasant  to  feel  that  his  professions  of  friend-
ship  are  not  professions  merely, and  to know
that  you  can  rely upon him and that he is sin-
cere in al he does and says.  Then truly, "Then
such God gives no dearer gifts to man."
