HOMESPUN TALK.
	Come in, girls, and sit down, I want to talk to 
you a little while; and if any of your young gen-
tlemen  friends  want  to  listen  too, I shall be
more than pleased.
	I don't  know that  what I want  to say is ex-
actly orthodox, but  to me  it  is  good  common-
sense.  You  know how we've  been preached to
and talked  to, and  how  books  and  papers are
always saying something to us about our  duties
as  the  future wives  and  mothers  of Israel.  I
know it is all good, and we surely must  try and
be as prudent as  our  giddy heads  and  dancing
heels will let us be, but - here's my bombshell -
we want  husbands who  are  going  to  be good
fathers. That's where lots  of the  trouble  lies,
and I know it!  Of course boys are lectured quite
a deal about making themselves  ornaments to
society,  and  pillars  of  Zion,  and  lights  to the
world. Are  taught  to  be  honest, industrious,
and when sent on missions  to be faithful and
true.  That's  all good - excellent, so  far  as it
goes - but it  don't  go  half  far  enough.  Are
young men  ever  taught to take the solemn re-
sponsibility  of  paternity  upon  them  with a
knowledge of  what  is  their  duty to  their  off-
spring?  Not often.  Girls, It is my candid opin-
ion that not  one-tenth  as many young men are
as nearly prepared to be fathers, that do become
so, as  are the poor  girls who  are  so much found
fault with.  Now  (this talk, remember, is with-
out  polish)  when a  soul  is  ushered  into  this
world, both man and woman owe to it a  solemn
duty.  Is it enough for a woman to nurse, wash
and rock the  child, scold, feed and patch for the
youth, and  get  rid of the young man as soon as
he is ready to marry or go out for himself?  Is it
enough for the father to look at it occasionally,
buy clothing and food for the child, school, clothe
and  whip  the  youth, and  settle  on the young
man as  much, to give him a start, as his pocket
allows?  No, I say it isn't.  I am not dealing
with mothers just now, and will give you my
idea of  a good and a bad father.
	Do you know a man  that  is  full  of  business
and  care  through  the  day, and  of  moroseness
and newspaper in the evening who growls out
to his wife about the idleness of "the boys," and
says  if  Tom  stays  away  from  Sunday  School
again  he'll "lick  him?"  Do  you  ever  meet a
man who lives for Zion, who devotes his days to
acquiring "filthy  lucre," his tongue  to the  fail-
ings of "the people and the signs of the times,"
his evenings  in  meetings and time  generally in
wondering  why  the  Almighty gave him such
reckless boys and flighty girls?  Perhaps I'd bet-
ter not call these  bad  fathers, and  yet  they are
not good ones.  I might enumerate many, many
different types  of men who fancy mothers must
teach  their  children  to  possess  all the virtues,
and  what  mothers  don't  do  Sunday Schools
must.  But again I say we want  fathers  in the
truest sense of the word.  Fathers who devote
every opportunity to  filling the  youthful  mind
with  righteous  principles.  In the hay field, at
the  dinner  table, around  the hearth, Sundays,
evenings  and mornings to  such conversation as
will form  good  ideas  in  the  mind of a  child.
Fathers  who  will  interest  their  boys  in their
business, and teach them to be careful and pru-
dent.  Fathers  who  think  sweet, wholesome
thoughts and whose  ways  are ways  of wisdom.
Fathers  who  share  the  burden of raising chil-
dren,  and who  realize paternity is a fruitful of 
good  and  evil resulted as  maternity. Fathers
whose love for Zion overflows first around their
own firesides.  Do I know  such a father?  Yes,
I do.  And his boys and  his  girls  are brightest
proofs of my arguments. 
	O girls, I could talk on and on, for this subject
is  much  on  my  mind, but I will  only  say, be
careful  how you  choose  a  husband.  Not only
seek to discover if he is energetic and full of the 
love of the Gospel, but sound him as to his views
of children  and  their  rearing.  Not modest?
Well then  it's not  modest  to marry a man and


bear children.  It is your duty to know his views
of life  in  all  its  bearings.  Spend  less  time in
courting  and  more  in sound  conversation.  Be
wise in your  actions,  wise  in  your  choice of a
husband, and come and see me again.
