A MOTHER'S  ADDRESS  TO HER
				CHILDREN.
	Written for Sister M. I. Horne and addressed
by  her  to upwards  of  fifty  of her  children  and
grandchildren, on the  occasion of their  Re-union
in the old home. By E. H. Woodmansee.

Is it needful  that I should SAY welcome?
	Is it needful my feelings to speak?
In a measure I'll try to express them,
	But language is feeble and weak
To tell the entire satisfaction--
	The comfort,  the  pride and the pleasure;
That I have in beholding my children,
	Again in the old home together.

When I look on this circle of faces,
	With Jacob, I'm led to exclaim--
"All these God  hath given me," surely--
	'Tis meet to acknowledge his name;
With praise and with thanks I adore Him,
	That so many belonging to me--
My children, and their  children also--
	Well and happy arround me I see.

My bosom  is thrill'd with emotion;
	Hopes and fears,  that I cannot relate;
Reaching out to the future before you--
	Hopes and fears, for your possible fate.
O, a mother would  fain live for ever--
	And sheild all her children  from  ill;
Yet her arm is  but flesh, it is feeble--
	Compared to her love and her will.

Aud Age! must  pass over "the River"--
	It cannot contend with the tide:
But  the Lord  is a safe guard foreve;
	He is always a help to the tried.
And trial is  mortality's portion,
	Yea, the Saints must  be  tried as by fire;
To refine, to prepare, to perfect them--
	For the glory, to which they aspire.

Though our patience and worth, we will merit
	That grand  and endurable prize
A crown,  of Eternal Salvation--
	The reward  of the faithful and wise.
But O, we must struggle to gain it,--
	For such is our Father's decree;
God himself cannot make us obtain it;
	Unless we will diligent be.

And this is a mother's petition--
	That your love may  be never estranged--
From  the Truth,  that the light of the Gospel--
	May be yours, through each  trial and change.
Be true to yourselves,  for your honor--
	By your covenants faithfully stand;
The soul that is bound by his honor--
	Is fitted to serve, or command.

If but one of a househould,  to virtue
	Turn's traitor, and merits his doom;
All who love him, are plunged into sorrow;
	Into deepest affliction and gloom.
I pray that you all may be faithful
	To your conscience, your friends and your God
That you'll walk in the "strait narrow pathway"
	That the wise and the worthy have trod.

I trust  by your  actions forever--
	Your motives will worthy be proved;
That  you all  may be justly respected,
	Even honor'd, and trusted, and lov'd.
Wherever you go, may the angels--
	Your footsteps direct and attend;
May your toil  be abundantly prosper'd;
	Yea, may  blessings upon you descend.

And if in the old home together--
	Face to face we may never more meet;
In a home that is brighter and better--
	May this circle be full and complete;
[column break]
Where the ties of affection are strengthen'd--
	Where they blossom, and flourish, and grow;
Where kindred in love are united;
	Nor anguish of parting will know.

When Earth is a sanctified planet;
	When 'tis cleansed  and celestialized  too;
May we all be allow'd to possess it,
	With the noble, the tried and the true;
And  receive with the faithful  our portion
	That the Father is pleased to bestow,
On  all who have valiantly labor'd
	To build up his kingdom below.
That  we all may have wisdom to merit
	(Nor one even more than another)
The blessing of "Life everlasting,"
	Is the prayer, and the hope of your mother.

S. L. City, Aug. 25th 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
