IN MEMORIAM.

	It is always painful to record the death of those
we love, and yet when a Latter-day Saint passes
away, especially after having attained to a good
old age, it is really a matter of rejoicing, for we
have an assurance that they enter into a higher
and holior state of being. Mrs. Mary Symonds
Alley, whose death occurred in this city Aug.
30, 1880, at the advanced age of eighty-five years,
was born in Salem, Mass., August 7, 1795. Her
parents were directly descended from the early
settlers of New England, who came over shortly
after the Pilgrim Fathers. Their names were
John Symonds and Susan Webb, and her father
and both her grandfathers were officers in the
revolutionary war. Her [-]usband, George Alley,
to whom she was married September 15,
1820, also served in the war of 1812, for
which he afterwards received a suitable ap-
propriation. They settled permanently in
Salem, Mass., and were highly respected by
all. There the Gospel found them in the enjoy-
ment of much of this world's goods. Sister
Alley was baptized by Elder Erastus Snow, Feb.


26, 1842, and the family started for Nauvoo Oct-
ober 24, 1812, arriving in that city January 29,
1843. Brother and Sister Alley, with their family
were in the Exodus from Nauvoo in 1846,
leaving the second time a good home and pleas-
ant surroundings for the Gospel's sake. They
remained in Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they started te cross the plains in
Pres. Brigham Young's company. They settled
permanently in the 8th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Alley has been a widow over twenty-one
years; she has now gone to join her husband, her
daughter and a host of relatives and friends be-
hind the vail. She was a woman of the strict-
est integrity of character, firm and unflinching
in the latter-day work. Her habits of precision
and order, and her prudence, punctuality and
early rising were characteristic of her New Eng-
land birth and training. She possessed as many
virtues and has left as unblemished a record as
any woman who ever lived. Her purity of life
and anxiety to serve God were known to all
with whom she was associated. She suffered
much pain during the last few months, but
peacefully passed away at last. She leaves three
sons and three daughters, many grandchildren
and five great-grandchildren. They may well
be proud of her memory.


[Column 1]
