ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	Sister Eliza has evinced, through the whole
course of her eventful life, a remarkable degree
of adaptability to circumstances, which has en-
abled her to pass through the trying experiences
with which "Mormon" life abounds with greater
equanimity than she could otherwise have
done. The great secret of the success she has
achieved is no doubt mainly due to the simple
fact that she has never been known to shrink
from any task assigned her, however arduous
it might appear.
	On the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold,
bleak winter, Miss Snow, with her father's
family, left her home in Davies County, Mo.--
the "Mormon's" in that locality having been
previously ordered by the Governor to leave
the county within ten days. They accordingly
moved from Davies to Caldwell Co.
	Sister Eliza says her father, in assisting wid-
ows and others, was detained until the very
last day of "grace" allotted to the Mormons
for leaving the county; the weather was very
cold indeed, and the ground was covered with
snow; she walked on to warm her aching feet
until the teams would overtake her; meantime
she met one of the "so-called militia," who
abruptly accosted her: "Well, I think this will
cure you of your faith." The young heroine
looked him steadily in the eye and replied: "It
will take more than this to cure me of my
faith." His countenance fell and he responded,
"I must confess you are a better soldier than I
am." It is indeed wonderful to what injustice,
hardships and persecutions those grandly brave
men and women endured for the sake of their
religion, without a murmur or complaint; and
remember, kind readers, these things transpired
before the principle of plural marriage had
ever been revealed. While this little company
of fugitives were fleeing from danger towards
Far West, they stopped one night at what was
called the "Half-way House," a place built of
logs, perhaps twenty feet square, and then en-
tirely without chinking. This had been the
"almost shelterless shelter" of the hundreds of
poor wanderers who had gone on before them,
compelled by the ruthless mobs to leave their
homes of comfort in mid-winter. On this oc-
casion there were about seventy-five or eighty
persons. Miss Snow says she and her sister Leo-
nora managed so that their mother could lie
down, and they sat by upon the floor to prevent
her being trampled upon, for the travelers were

[Column 2]
crowded into this small space like so many
cattle, and they could hardly be responsible for
their movements. The food the people had
with them was frozen hard, and though there
was a blazing fire in one side of the room, she
says it was not possible for them to get to it to
thaw the food for their suppers, therefore they
resorted to a very novel expediency, which she
tells thus: "The boys milked, and while one
strained the milk another held the pan (for
there was no chance of putting anything down);
then while one held a bowl of the warm milk,
another would, as expeditiously as possible,
thinly slice the frozen bread into it, and thus
we managed for supper. In the morning we
were less crowded, as some started very early,
and we toasted our bread and thawed our meat
before the fire. But, withal, that was a very
merry night. About twenty feet from the
house was a shed, in the centre of which the
brethren built a roaring fire, around which
some of them stood and sang songs and hymns
all night, while others parched corn, roasted
frosted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard--all were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists rather than a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Reaching the city of Far West, they found
such scenes of sorrow and suffering as no lan-
guage can faithfully depict. The prophet and
many other prominent brethren had been
dragged off to prison, their families were desti-
tute, "and desolation seemed inscribed on
everything but the hearts of the faithful Saints.
In the midst of affliction, they trusted in God."
	It is indeed pitiful to even hear related, or
to read, the history of the cruelties inflicted
upon those innocent, inoffensive men, women
and children during the persecutions in Mis-
souri.
	Sister Eliza says, on the 5th of March, 1839,
while the weather was still very cold and win-
try, they left Far West, leaving much of their
property behind them, and started for Illinois,
whither many of these poor exiles had preceded
them. Her father moved into one of the
northern counties of that State, but Eliza and
her sister stopped in Quincy, Illinois. While
there she wrote some characteristic articles for
the press, and received very flattering encomi-
ums of praise, and many pressing solicitations
to contribute other poetical articles. It was of
course something of a novelty to find genius so
rare inherent in a "Mormon girl," an exile at
that. From Quincy Miss Snow and her sister
moved to Lima, and lived there for a short
time, supporting themselves with needle-work,
compelled to submit to circumstances. It was
then their home-industrial training stood them
in good stead.
	In May, 1839, the Saints began to gather in
Commerce, on the banks of the Mississippi,
afterwards called Nauvoo; and about the mid-
dle of July Sidney Rigdon sent for Miss Snow
to come up there and teach his family school.
She had been living in comparative seclusion,
and away from the society of the Saints, and
it must have been a happy message which came
to her, to join the society of those she loved so
truly, and be associated again with those who
were searching for the knowledge and intelli-
gence which comes only from a divine source.
	During the seven years that Sister Eliza re-
sided in Nauvoo, some of the most important
events occurred in her career which could
mark the life of woman or of Saint. It was


during that  period  she  wrote the most sublime
and  lofty  poetry, and  an  inspiration  from on
High seemed  to  be  resting upon her  almost
constantly.  The  Church  itself  was  passing
through wonderful stages in advancement.  The
revelations  of God seemed to pour down upon
the Prophet Joseph, insomuch  that  a new era,
as it were, was begun, and  light and intelligence
which  had  long  been  hid  was made known to
the faithful, who had proven their  integrity to
the  cause  they had so  earnestly espoused, and
so  manfully  maintained  in  the  face  of every
difficulty and  unjust  and  unwarrantable  op-
pression.
 Woman participated in the glorious blessings
that were imparted with the ushering in of this
phase of  the  new  dispensation;  and  woman
partook  of  the  divine  sacrament,  which  was
offered  only to  those  who  had  complied with
the requirements of heaven  and  made a sacri-
fice through obedience.  At  this  period a new
era dawned upon woman;  marriage and moth-
erhood  were  indeed  supremely  glorified,  and
the  Spirit  of  God  enlightened  the minds of
those  who  humbled  themselves  and  sought a
testimony of the divinity of those eternal prin-
ciples, which seemed too sublimely  lofty for hu-
man comprehension.
 Perhaps  it  was about this  time  that  Sister
Eliza  composed  the  wonderful  hymn,  which
has been sung by thousands and thousands ever
since, and  in  every land  to  which  the  Gospel
has  been  carried, in which she so beautifully
portrays  the  home  of  our Father and Mother
in  heaven, our  mission here  on  earth and our
welcome  home  to  the  paternal mansion  in the
celestial kingdom.
 The "Invocation" breathes  the  very soul of
purity, and has awakened thoughts in the minds
of thousands  concerning our former home that
would  otherwise  never  have  been  stirred.
Who  ever  thought  of a  real  mother  in  the
spirit world?  and  yet the mother-love is strong
in the soul of man;  but these beautiful lines of
hers  have  been  like a sweet  and  grateful in-
cense  to  the  hearts  of  many  who  longed  for
some  satisfactory expression  of  this deep emo-
tion  which  they  could  not  define,  but which
they find in these touching words:

	"In the heavens are parents single?
	No; the thought makes reason stare!
	Truth is reason--truth eternal
	Tells me I've a mother there.

	"When I leave this frail existence--
	When I lay this mortal by,
	Father, Mother, may I meet you
	In your royal courts on high?

The whole  hymn  is  full  of  tenderness,  and
yet there is a strength  of  language in it which
carries conviction with the words.
The  gift  of  prophecy,  through  the  inspira-
tion  of  poetry, is  noticeable  in  the  writings ofo
this eminent  woman,  and  indeed she seems to
inherit from her illustrious race this character-
istic of her Hebrew origin.
			To be Continued.


