THE EDITOR,

	The work of an editor can only be appreci-
ated by those who have had the fortune to have
had some little experience of it. The editor of
a London daily newspaper is held answerable
for every word in forty-eight, and sometimes
sixty columns. The merest slip of the pen, an
epithet too much, a wrong date, a name mis-
spelt or with a wrong initial before it, a mis-
take as to some obscure personage only too
glad to seize the opportunity of showing himself,
the misinterpretation of some passage perhaps
incapable of interpretation, the most trifling
offence to the personal or national susceptibility
of those who do not even profess to care for the
feelings of others, may prove not only disagree-
able,but even,costly mistakes to which an editor
is liable. As it is imposible to say what a night
may bring forth, and the most important intel-
ligence is apt to be the latest, it will ofteu find
him with none to share his responsibility, with-
out advisers, and with colleagues either pre-
engaged on other matters or no longer at hand.
The editor must be on the spot-till the paper is
sent to press, and make decisions on which not
only the approval of the British Public, but
great events, and even great causes, may hang.
All the most serious part of his duties has to
be discharged at the end of a long day's work,
a day of interruptions and conversations, of
letter reading and letter writing, when mind
and body are not what they were twelve hours
ago, and wearied nature is putting in her gentle
pleas. An editor cannot husband his strength
for the night's battle with comparative repose
in the solitude of a study or the freshness of
green fields. He must see the world, converse
with its foremost or busiest actors, be open to
information, and on guard against error. All
this ought to be borne in mind by those who
complain that journalism is not infallibly ac-
curate, just and agreeable. Their complaints
are like those of the conrt lord who found fault
with the disagreeable necessities of warfare.—
London Times.


