MARRIED LIFE.

	I wonder if there is one out of every ten of the
young people who get married,who fully realizes
the sacred obligations and duties pertaining to
married life. It seems to me that this should be
a matter in which much sober thought and
sound judgment should be used; and that if more
care was taken in the selection of a life compan-
ion by both sexes, there would be fewer ill-as-
sorted, wretched couples in the world than there
are. Marriage has rightly been termed a "lot-
tery," it is this at best; but where people marry
who are totally unfitted for each other by their
difference in tastes, habits and opinions, troubles
often arise, which though they may be "mole
hills" to commence with,soon grow to be moun-
tains. To be happy, perfect confidence and
respect should exist between husband and wife,
for where this is lacking, we often see what at
first appears to be the merest trifle, bring about
in the end the most direful results. If we once
allow jealousy to gain a foot-hold in the heart,
good bye to happiness. This passion is the cause
of much trouble, and misery; the instigator
of many crimes. It stalks abroad in the earth,
coming stealthily along like a "thief in the
night," robbing the gay of their mirth, poisoning
the mind, embittering the feelings, and corrupt-
ing the heart; destroying domestic happiness by
thrusting out love and union, and placing in
their stead suspicion and distrust; turning the
dearest friends into bitter enemies; withering
love, and blighting the fond anticipations of
families. Fault-finding should also be avoided
as much as possible as it oft does more harm
than good, for no one likes to be found fault
with, and where indulged in, often becomes a
chronic disease, turning the most amiable into
very disagreeable persons.
	We might learn many useful lessons if we
would from observation of other people's exper-
ience; but instead of this we often condemn
others and afterwards fall into the same evil
ourselves. How many different phases of
married life there are. For instance we see a
couple who start out together in a very sensible,
consistent manner, always cautious,and respect-
ful, manifesting that kindness, and delicate at-
tention which speaks louder than words, of the
pure and lasting affection existing between
them.
	Next we see a couple who seem so anxious to

[Column 2]
make people believe they are fond of each other;
that they not only offend the natural delicacy of
people who are in any degree refined; but they
also succeed in making people believe them to
be, or that they will eveneually become the very
opposite, of what they pretend, gruff and un-
kind. Again,we find a man who seems to think
of one thing in particular, viz., that he is "Lord
of Creation," which fact gives him the right to
look down on his wife considering her fit only to
be his drudge; bow in humble submission to
every wish however unreasonable,and patiently
receive his abuse. In contrast to this, and the
most rediculous of all, is the "henpecked hus-
band." With what contempt is a man looked up-
on who is led about by the will and caprice of a
woman; who hasn't manhood enough about him
to accomplish anything. But they are often
managed with such tact and skillfulness, that
they scarcely realize that it is so. A very sad
spectacle is to see a couple who have taken each
other "for better or worse," in the days of their
youth, lived together for years, and raised a large
family, finally separate, declaring they can live
together no longer, and not content with this,
must needs defame each other's character, pro-
claim their faults to the world, seeming to de-
light in throwing stones at each other, as they
start out to pursue their separate paths through
the remaining portion of their lives.
	In conclusion I will say that in my opinion,
private, or family affairs should never be made
public property, and domestic difficulties are sel-
dom overcome by outside interference.
									KATE.


