				PHIDELIA KOFFORD, Sec'y.


The third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies of Parowan Stake of Zion was
held at Paragoonah, August 29th, 1880. The
officers of the Stake, Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I., and
Primary Associations were present also Pres. 
Lunt, Bishops Erastus Mc Intyre, John E. 
Dalley and Wm. C. Mitchell, Elders Wm.
Marsden and Thomas Durham, with others of 
the priesthood.
	Pres. Eellen W. Lunt, presiding. After the
usual exercises, and minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and accepted, the Statis-
tical and Financial reports of the Stake Relief
Societies were read for the half year, also the
reports from the Y. L. M. I., and Primary As-
sociations. All the reports both verbal and
written showed each respective society in pro-
sperous condition. Many excellent instruc-
tions were given by the sisters who spoke.
The current of their remarks was on the re-
sponsibility resting upon mothers, the training
of children, evil influences abroad in the land
home manufactures, plural marrage, and the
efficacy of prayer. All realizing that we were
engaged in a work that would take us back
into the presence of our heavenly Father if we
were faithful to the end. In the afternoon the


Sacrament was administered.  A Primary As-
sociation was organized.  Sally A. Olsen Pres.
Eliza  Hanks  and  Mary  L.  Robinson  Coun-
selors,  and  Mary  L.  Barton  Sec.  Bishop
John  E.  Dalley  of  Parowan  made  some  in-
teresting remarks, advised the  mothers to send
their children to the Primary meetings.  Bish-
op Erastus  Mc Intyre said he  never felt a bet-
ter  spirit  in  any  meeting  of the  Latter-day
Saints than was manifested in this Conference,
referred to the first organizations  of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo 1842, and prayed the Lord
to bless those who  were  called  to preside, with
his spirit.  Pres.  E.  W.  Lunt remarked that it
was exactly three years to-day since our beloved
President  Brigham  Young  departed  hence,
thought it would be very appropriate  to  read
his last discourse to the Relief Societies of We-
ber County, delivered in the Ogden Tabernacle
July  19th,  1877,  which  was listened  to  with
marked  attention.  An  interesting  letter  ad-
dressed  to  Pres. H. Lunt  was  also read from
Pres. Jesse N. Smith of Arizona.
	President Henry  Lunt said these, meetings
were like a feast of good  things,  the principles
advanced  were  what  would  save  the  human
family if they would  put  them in  practice, re-
marked  that  this  was the  first  Conference of
any kind held in Paragoonah.  Felt that there
was a bright future for us.  The presence of so
many was a  witness  that we  were  striving  to
live our religion.  Closed his remarks by bless-
ing the congregation.  Pres E. W. Lunt spoke
in favor  of  the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and re-
commended  every sister to take a copy.  Con-
ference was  adjourned  for three months to be
held in Parowan.  Choir  sang the anthem “O
praise the Lord.” Benediction by Elder Wm.
Marsden.
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec’y.
	Cedar City, Iron Co., Sept. 4th, 1780.


[Column 1]
