	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

	I had  intended  to  pass  on without  farther
mention of Zion's  Camp, but  in  looking  over
their history I find it  contains so much that is
interesting, as well as suggestive, that I am in-
clined to  copy a portion  of it  for  the  perusal
of those who are interested in the work of God,
believing that it will be a source  of  comfort as
well as instruction to  the Saints who have had
to drink of the cup of sorrow, and  have  been
tried  in  the furnace  of  affliction.  The follow-
ing is from my father's journal:
	"There were  about one hundred brethren  in
our  company  who  started  for  Zion.  These
brethren  were  all  young  men, and  nearly all
Elders,  Priests,  Teachers.  or  Deacons.  The
second day we arrived at New Portage, *  *
at  which  place, on  the  7th, we  made  regula-
tions for traveling, and appointed a paymaster,
whose name  was  Frederick  G.  Williams, and
put  all  our  monies  into a general fund; some
of the brethaen had considerable, and  others
had little or none, yet all became equal. *  *
We  then  proceeded  on  our  journey twelve
miles, to the Chippeway River; here we pitched
our tents under a fine grove.
	"The next day we were divided into compa-
nies of twelve each, and captains were appoint-
ed  over each company.  I  then  organized  my
company in  the  following  manner, appointing
two  to  attend to cooking, two to see that fires
were made, two to prepare the tent at night and
prepare the bedding, and also to strike the tent
each  morning, two to  fetch and provide water,
one to do the running, two to see to the horses,
see the wagon was greased, and everything pre-
pared for starting; my business was to see that
the company was prepared for, and to see that
all things were done in order.  Our living  was
generally  very good, being  able  to  buy bread
from  the  bakers  or  inhabitants  on  the  way
through the settled part of the country.  After
this we purchased flour and had to bake our own
bread;  we  sometimes  had  to live  on  johnny-
cake  and corn dodger, and sometimes  our liv-
ing was scant.  Every night before we went to
bed we  united  in  our  tent and offered  up our
prayers before the  Lord  for  protection.  This
was done by all of the companies at the sound
of the trumpet;  and at the  sound of the trum-
pet  in  the  morning  every man  was  upon his
knees, each  one being called upon in  his turn
to  be mouth  in  prayer.  The same  order was
attended to in each tent.
	"There were  general  officers  appointed over
the  company, viz.:  Joseph Smith, Commander;
Dr. F. G. Williams, Quartermaster and Histo-
rian  of the  camp;  Zerubbabel Snow  and  Na-
than Tanner, Commissioner of subsistence; Syl-
vester Smith, Adjutant, and Roger Orton, Cap-
tain  of the  guard.  On  the 8th we started on
our  journey, and  on  Saturday,  the  10th,  we
passed  through  Mansfield and  camped for the
Sabbath  in  Richfield.  *  *  *  When  we
came  to  Belle  Fountain  we first  discovered
refractory feelings in Sylvester Smith.  *  * *
	"On Saturday, the 17th, we passed into Indi-
ana, just over the line betwixt the States of Ohio
and Indiana, where  we  camped  for  the Sab-
bath, having traveled forty miles that day;  our
feet  were  very  sore  and  blistered,  and  our
stockings were wet with blood, the weather be-
ing very warm.  I walked most of the journey,
letting the lame and  footsore ride in my stead.
I frequently invited the prophet  to ride, seeing
him  lame  and  footsore;  on  such  occasions he
would  bless  me with a hearty  good will.  My
team performed the journey very well.
	"During the night a spy from the enemy at-
tempted to get into our  camp,  but was stopped
by the guard.  We had our sentinels or guards
appointed every night, on account of spies con-
tinually harassing us.  This evening there was
[column break]
quite a difficulty between some of the brethren
and  Sylvester  Smith,  on  occasion  of  which
Brother Joseph was called to decide the matter.
Finding  quite a rebellious  spirit  in  Sylvester
Smith, and  to  some  extent  in  others, he said
they  would  meet  with  misfortune, difficulties
and hindrances, "and you will know it before you
leave  this  place;"  exhorting  them  to  humble
themselves before the Lord and become united,
that they might not be scourged.
	"A very singular  occurrence took place that
night  and the  next day concerning our teams.
On  the  following  morning when we  arose we
found almost  every horse in the camp so badly
foundered  that we  could  scarcely  lead them a
few  rods  to  the  water.  The  brethren  then
deeply realized  the  effects  of  discord.  When
Brother Joseph learned the fact  he  exclaimed
to the brethren that was for a witness that God
overruled  and had his  eye upon them, that all
those who would  humble themselves before the
Lord should  know that the hand  of  God  was
in  this  misfortune, and their horses should be
restored to  health immediately;  and by twelve
o'clock the same day the horses were as nimble
as ever, with the exception of one of Sylvester
Smith's, which soon afterwards died.  *  * *
	"May 21st we  passed  through  Indianapolis,
*  *  where we crossed White River.  *  *
We had  been  threatened by our  enemies that
we should  not  go  through  the  town, but we
passed  through  unmolested;  everything  ap-
peared  to  be  in  perfect  silence  as  we  went
through, although the people looked aghast, as
if fear  had  come  upon  them.  *  *  *  On
Sunday, the  25th, we  arrived  at  the  edge  of
Illinois.  *  *  On  the  26th  we  resumed  our
journey.  At  night  we  were  alarmed  by the
continual threatening of our enemies.  I would
here  remark  that  notwithstanding  so  many
threats were thrown out against us, we did not
fear nor hesitate to proceed on our journey, for
God was  with  us, and  angels went  before  us,
and we  had  no  fear  of either  men  or devils.
This we know because angels were seen.  * *
	"On Sunday, June 1st, we had preaching all
day, and  many  of  the inhabitants  of  the town
came  out  to  hear.  Brother  John  S.  Carter
preached  in  the  morning.  *  *  Brother
Joseph  proposed  that  some  of the  brethren
should set  forth different portions  of  the  Gos-
pel in their discourses.  He called upon Brother
Joseph  Young to preach upon the principles of
free salvation.  He  then  called upon Brother
Brigham  to  speak, who  set  forth  baptism  as
essential  to  salvation.  He  was  followed  by
Brother Orson Hyde, who proved by the Scrip-
tures  that  baptism  was  for  the  remission  of
sins.  Lyman E. Johnson spoke at some length
upon  the  necessity  of men  being  upright in
their walk and keeping the  Sabbath day holy.
Brother  Orson  Pratt  delivered  an  excellent
discourse on the principles  of  the final restora-
tion  of  all  things.  The  services  of  the  day
were  concluded  by  a  powerful  exhortation
from Eleazer Miller.  His voice was said to be
heard a mile  and a half.  *  *  Brother Mil-
ler was  one  of  the  first  that brought the Gos-
pel to us in  Mendon, N. Y., and when he used
to  retire  to  a  little grove  near my house  for
secret  prayer, he  would  get  so  filled with the
spirit  and  the  power  of  the Holy Ghost, that
he would burst out into a loud voice, so that he
was  heard  by the  surrounding inhabitants for
more than a mile.
	"After the  services  were  over  many stran-
gers were in  our  camp  making remarks upon
the  preaching  which  they  had  heard.  They
said  Brother Joseph  Young, by his  preaching,
they  should  judge  was  a  Methodist;  they
thought  Brigham  Young was a close commun-
ion  Baptist;  Orson Hyde  they supposed was a
Campbellite,  or  reformed  Baptist;  Lyman  E.
Johnson,  a  Presbyterian,  and  Orson  Pratt  a
Restorationer.  They  inquired  if  we  all be-
longed to one denomination.  The answer was
[column break]
we WERE some of us Baptists, some Methodists,
some Presbyterians, some Campbellites, some
Restorationers, &c.
	"On Sunday  morning,  when  we  passed
through Jacksonville, they undertook to count
us, and I  heard  one man say, who stood in the
door  of  a  cabinet  shop, that he had  counted a
little rising  of five hundred, but he  could  not
tell how many there were.  This thing was at-
tempted many times in villages  and  towns  as
we  passed through, but  the  people were  never
able to ascertain our number.
	"While traveling in Indiana some spies came
into our camp;  while we were eating dinner on
the  21st  of  May,  three  gentlemen  came  rid-
ing  upon  very  fine-looking  horses,  and  com-
menced  their  inquiries  of  various  ones  con-
cerning our traveling  in  so  large a body, ask-
ing  where  we were  from  and  where  we were
going.  The  reply  was  as  usual--some  from
the State of Maine, another would  say  I  am
from  York  State, some  from  Massachusetts,
some from  Ohio,  and  some  replied, "We are
from  the  East, and  as  soon  as we have  doue
eating  dinner  we  shall  be  going  to the West
again."  They  then  addressed  themselves  to
Dr.  Williams, to see if they could find out who
the leader of the camp was.  He replied, "We
have no one in particular."  They asked if we
had  not  a  General  to  take  the  lead  of the
company. The  reply was, no one in particu-
lar.  "But,"  said  they,  "is  there  not  some
one  among you whom  you  call  your  captain,
or leader,  or superior to the  rest?"  He  an-
swered, "Sometimes one and sometimes another
takes charge of the company, so as not to throw
the  burthen  upon  any  one  in  particular."
These same spies who had come from the West
passed us that same day and the next.
	"On Monday, June  2d, we  crossed  the Illi-
nois River.  The  enemies had threatened that
we shou!d not  pass  over, but we  were  ferried
across  without  any  difficulty.  Here we were
counted by the ferryman, and  he  declared  we
were five  hundred  in  number, although  there
were  only about one  hundred and  fifty of us;
our  company  had  increased  since  we  started
from Kirtland, in consequence of many having
volunteered and  joined  us  from  the  different
branches of the Church through which we had
passed on our journey.
			To be Continued.


The Sisters Quarterly Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City,on Friday and Saturday,the 24,
and 25, of September. A general attendance is
requested of all the branch societies wherever
the sisters can make it convenient. It is not ex-
pected that reports of Relief Societies will be read,
but the secretaries are requested to bring them
or forward them to the Stake Secretary, Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, that she may be able to keep
a strict and correct account. The time will be
devoted to speaking and transacting such busi-
ness as may be brought before the conference.
The Primary and Y. L. M. I. A., Conference
will be held on Saturday, the 25th. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson is desirous of receiving the full
reports from all the organizations in Salt Lake
County.


WE are pleased to notice that Dr. Pratt com-
mences a new class in obstetrics during the win-
ter. She has been requested to teach this branch
of medicine by the leading sisters who are con-
stantly visiting through the Territory and wit-
nessing the painful lack of knowledge in this
department. Her office is central, and she has
the necessary charts, manikin, etc., requisite to
teach as thoroughly as can be expected in such a
partial course. Not only are the sisters inter-
ested in these classes, but the brethren of the
highest authority have extended their approval
and expressed their desire that the people take
advantage of the opportunity opened to them.


