JOHNSON, KANE CO., UTAH,
					July 29, 1880.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In perusing a copy of
your most valuable paper, my thoughts wander
far and wide. In July 15th number the first
piece that my eye caught was "Life Incidents"
of the early days of the Church, which caused
my heart to swell with emotion for the Saints
that suffered in those days and triumphed over
all in serving the Lord. We love their memo-
ry, though gone from earth to a better realm.
Next was "Pleasure Excursion to Black Rock"
for the aged fathers and mothers. Bless them!
Methinks I can see their aged-faces beaming
with joy and heart felt thanks to the managers
for their comfort and pleasure. May they live
to enjoy many such occasions.
	As I pass over I comment on "Curiosity,"
"The Word of Wisdom," the neglect of which
is increasing very fast among our young people.
How are we to prevent it? Fathers and moth-
ers, let hot drinks alone, and set a good exam-
ple yourselves, or I believe our Heavenly Fa-
ther's Spirit will be grieved, for He will not
always bear with his children. Let us put them
from us as a thing to be shunned and despised,
especially by our young people,who have always
been taught that they were not good for the
body.
	"Woman's Convention!" Truly this is an
age of progression. The ladies' speeches are
good, and I hope they will succeed in their
efforts to obtain the suffrage. Let woman
stand up for her own rights in wisdom, and
help to make man better, that both sexes may
become equal in intelligence and influence and
assist each other in doing right, and fulfill the
mission they were placed here to work out,
which would exalt them to a higher sphere and
greater honor in the future.
	I do not wish to try your patience but will

[Column 2]
give a short account of how we spent the
Twenty-Fourth of July in this little place.
Salute of six guns at day break, twenty-four
at sunrise. At ten o'clock all repaired to the
schoolhouse. Singing, "Hail, all Hail the
Twenty-Fourth." Prayer by Chaplain W. D.
Johnson, Sen. Speech by the orator of the
day, Nephi Johnson. Select readings by the
brethren and sisters, also toasts given. Sing-
ing from the "Mountain Warbler." At twelve
o'clock all repaired to the residence of W. D.
Johnson and partook of a bountiful picnic.
The remainder of the day was spent in sport-
ive recreation, and all went merry as a mar-
riage bell," and all the people were well pleased
with the day's exercises in memory of the Pio-
neers. May the Lord bless them all.
