VISIT OF  PRESIDENT  HAYES AND
				PARTY. 
				---------
	On Sunday morning, Sept. 5, at a quarter be-
fore ten o'clock, a special  train left this city for
Ogden, to  meet President  and Mrs. Hayes, Sec-
retary  Ramsey,  Gen. Sherman  and  the  party
traveling with  them  from  the  East.  The Salt
Lake  party  consisted  of President John Taylor
and  wife, Hon. John Sharp, Superintendent of
the Utah Central, and his daughter, Miss Nettie
Sharp,  Hon.  George  Q.  Cannon,  Gen.  D. H.
Wells and wife, Pres. Angus M. Cunnon and
his daughter,  Miss  Mina  Cannon, Gen.  H.  S.
Eldredge, Hon. Wm. Jennings and his son, Mr.
Joseph Jennings, C. W. Penrose, Editor Deseret
News, and  wife, Col. Theodore  McKean, Hon.
David O. Calder and H. W. Naisbitt, Esq.  The
train  reached  Ogden  before  eleven o'clock, and
the Presidential party did not arrive until twenty-
five  minutes  to  one  o'clock P.M. The  Ogden
Brass Band were playing enthusiastically  at the
depot, and a large crowd of citizens had assem-
bled to welcome the Chief Magistrate of the na-
tion and his friends.  There were five coaches in
the train, and the  engine was elaborately decor-
ated.  Governor Murray and  the Committe
were on board the train, having met the Eastern
party and joined them at Weber Station. 
	The President was  greeted  heartily by the as-
sembled crowd, and introduced to them by Gov-
ernor  Murray.  Prest.  Hayes said a few words,
and excused himself on account of its being the
Sabbath day; Secretary Ramsey did  the same.
Gen. Sherman being loudly called for, expressed
his  pleasure  briefly.  The  cars  containing the
new arrivals were then attached to the special
train from Salt Lake, the  engine  having been
artistically decorated  with flags and  streamers
for  the  occasion.  Immediately after, President
Hayes was introduced from the platform of his
car  by  Apostle Cannon  to  Prest. Taylor, Gen.
Wells and the other gentlemen and ladies of the 
party.  The train left Ogden amid loud cheering,
and in a few minutes the President of the United
States visited  Prest.  Taylor  and  his friends, re-
maining  with  them until  after the train passed
Kaysville.  His manner was most affable, and
he conversed with Prest. Taylor and others freely
upon  subjects  of  general interest pertaining to
the interests of  the Territory.  Shortly after the
President left, Secretary  Ramsey  came in and
spent a few moments, then Gen. Sherman, who
remained until the train reached the city.
	While the  train was  between  Kaysville and
Farmington, Mrs. Hayes  sent  to  invite the la-
dies  of Prest. Taylor's  party to visit  her in her
own car, to which they responded, and spent the
rest of the time with her until the train arrived
in the city.  Mrs. Hayes was  just as charming
as ever, very sociable with the ladies, and seemed
pleased and surprised with all that she saw and
heard. She was dressed in black cashmere, with
heavy crape trimmings, her hair put up plain in
the style  of  thirty years ago, and she looked the
very  picture  of  elegant simplicity.  Her  sweet,
intelligent face, her full, eloquent  eyes, her at-
tractive  manner, won all  hearts  at  once.  She
is  indeed  a  noble, whole-souled,  tender, loving,
gentle woman.
 At Farmington the Sunday Schools were  out
and  the  train  stopped  a  few  minutes  for the
President and Mrs. Hayes to  shake hands with
the  children.  A similar  scene was  enacted  at
Wood's  Cross, and both  the  President and  his
amiable wife seemed much pleased.
	When the train  arrived in the  city, carriages
were in waiting to escort the party to the Hotel,
which   had  been  magnificently  decorated in
honor of the arrival.  The streets were thronged
with  people, and  the  Sunday Schools were out
with  banners,  mottoes,  etc.  Crowds  of  people
had gathered around the Walker  House,  desir-
ous  of  seeing  His  Excellency;  and  after  the
party  were  inside  the  house, Governor Murray
came  out  upon the  portico with the President,
and  introduced him to the people.  He  begged
to  be  excused from  making  a  formal speech,
thanked the people for the welcome and retired
while the crowd were cheering.  The Governor
then  introduced  the  Secretary  of  War,  who
also  thanked  the  people, and  expressed his sur-
prise and  admiration  at  the  appearance of the
place and  the  people,  and  said  they  had  met
with surprises all along the route, but the present
one was beyond anything they had seen.
Gen. Sherman  was then introduced.  He has
for many  years  been  greatly  admired  and  es-
teemed  by  the  Mormon people, having visited
Salt Lake once  before,  and  also  the Mormon
settlements in Arizona. His  speech was taken
in full by a short hand reporter.
	Friends ana Fellow Citizens:  Following the
example of  my  chief--indeed, I may say, my
two chiefs--I ought to say nothing;  but I cannot
look  upon  this  crowd  of  people, and  upon the
scenery on my right and  on my left hand, with-
out saying  a few  words of  praise to  those  who
have  come  to  this  desert  land  and made it to
blossom  as  the  rose.  (Cheers  and  applause.)
An old  philosopher remarked, before any of us
were born,that he who made two blades of grass
to grow where only  one did before  was a public
benefactor.  Now the people who have made the
pears and apples, and the peaches and the wheat
and  clover and  the grass  to  grow,  when but a
short time ago there was  nothing  but the sage-
brush  to  be  seen, are entitled to our thanks  as
public benefactors.
 The President will in due time, on all proper
occasions, recognize  your kindness  to him--not
here,but else where;  for he  takes note  of every-
thing as he goes along, and he is so familiar with
the history of  this  people, that when  the  time
comes that he can say a kind word for you, he
will do it.  (Great  applause.)  All  that I  want
to  say  this Sunday afternoon  is this:  Go on as
you have begun, make homes for yourselves and
your children  and be half  as good as you  know
how to be, and you will  be good  enough for this
or any other valley. (Applause.)
	I thank you  again for the testimony to  your
Chief  Magistrate,  and I  believe it will do  good
to him and to yourselves and to the whole world.
 I beg you will excuse us from saying anything
further excepting that  we  intend spending all
of to-day and part of to-morrow in your City,and
will  do the best we can to  view the internal ar-
rangments, the  garrison on  the  hill top and
anything else that we can overtake.  We are, I
may say, on the road to California with all speed
and we can't stop.  Those fellows in  California
hold a lariat around  our  necks and we have got
to go on and make the best of our time--(Laugh-
ter and applause.)  In  the  meantime,  one and
all, we thank you for the heartly recpetion given
unto us thus far.  (Great  applause  and cheers.)
	There were loud calls for Mrs. Hayes who was
then introduced and greeted with hearty cheers.
She bowed  gracefully  and  retired.  The crowd
soon dispersed and the Sabbath  resumed  its ac-
customed serenity.
	In the  evening  the  President,  Mrs.  Hayes
and  a  number of  their  party  attended  service
at  the  Methodist  Church.  The preacher  was
most unfortunate in taking his text,as his whole
aim seemed to be to  convince  them of the gross
wickedness of the  practise of  plural marriage,
yet he  selected,  the  first  verse of  the fourth
chapter of Isaiah, which reads "And in  that day
seven women shall take hold of one man" &c.
Any person who will  read  the chapter  through
cannot fail to see that it applies to holy men and
women, in a day when  Zion is to be redeemed.
Common sense  will convince one that none but
good and pure women would make such a proposi-
tion; those who understood  the  laws and  com-
mandments  of  God.  However  let  that  pass
his sermon is not worth a moment's thought, to
those who understand the law  of  God  concern-
ing marraige.
	Monday morning  between  eight  and  nine
o'clock the President's party  visited the Taber-
nacle, and  while  there  some of the  ladies and
gentlemen held a  conversation with each  other
in low tones from  opposite sides of the building
and were greatly  surprised at  its  acoustic pro-
perties.
	A public  reception  was held  in  the  Walker
House parlors from ten  to  eleven o'clock A. M.
Many citizens  both men  and  women and also
children availed themselves of  this  opportunity
of  meeting  and  shaking  hands  with His Ex-
cellency  Pres.  Hayes  and  his distinguished
wife.
	After the  reception, the  party, in  company
with  Gov.  Murray,  the  reception committee,
their ladies  and  other  invited  guests,  among
whom were Hon. Wm. Jennings  and  wife and
Bishop John Sharp, went to Fort Douglas, where
their  arrival was greeted  by Gen. Smith with a
salute  of  artillery.  They  remained  there to
lunch, then returned to the city and took special
train  immediately  for  Ogden, at half  past one
P.M. The depot yard was crowded with people
anxious  to  catch  the  last  glimpse  of  the  illus-
trious  visitors.  Quite  a  large  company  from
Salt  Lake  accompanied  the  party  to Ogden--
Prest.  John  Taylor,  several  of  the  Apostles
and  many other  prominent citizens.  A goodly
number ofladies were also of the party.
	Soon after the train  started Pres. Hayes came
into Pres. Taylor's  car, and  held a long  and  in-
teresting conversation  with  him.  Mrs.  Hayes
expressed a wish to see the ladies of the party;
accordingly they  were  all  introduced,  she  re-
turned with them and spent some time in pleas-
ant  conversation  in  the  most  sociable manner.
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith presented Mrs. Hayes
with a volume  of her poems  and a copy  of the
little hymn book she has recently published  for
the  children.  She  was  also  presented  with  a
"silk lace  fichu, as a souvenir  of her visit to the 
City of the Saints." The silk was rasied by Mrs.
Schneiter of  this  city,  and the  article manufac-
tured  by  Mrs.  Ursenbach.  It  is a very elegant
and  elaborate piece  of  fancy lace work.  A  note
hastily written at the last moment accompanied
the gift.  Mrs. Hayes  is  certainly  one  of  the
loveliest women we have ever had the pleasure
of meeting.  Her intelligent face  is  expressive
of goodness, mercy, gentleness, tenderness. and
in fact  all  those  beautiful  qualities  that  carry
with them an inexpressible charm  and takes all
hearts captive.  She will  be  remembered with
pleasure by all who met her and we do trust that


her visit, as well as that of the President and
others, may be productive of good. Secretary
Ramsay and Gen. Sherman were genial and so
ciable with the "Mormon" party. Gen. Sher-
man had quite a long conversation with Gen.
Wells, whom he had met when here before.
Everything passed off pleasantly during the
visit of the party, and the result is in the
hands of One Who sees not as man sees.


