LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.

	"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart and with all thy soul and with all thy
mind."
	This is the first great commandment; and the

[Column 2]

second is like unto it; "Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself."
	On these two commandments hang all the law
and the prophets. (Jesus).
	How few contemplate this momentous subject.
How little we realize the importance of these
sublime and weighty words, or even give them a 
thought throughout the routine of our daily occu-
pations. To our sin-beclouded senses it seems
almost like an improbability.
	Too frequently are they considered to be too
pure and sacred for fallen humanity to observe;
but we must not attribute to the Savior such an
absurd idea—as such an injunction surely would
be if impossible to obey it.
	It certainly would require a large amount of
the Spirit of God to enable poor, weak, selfish
natures to arrive at such a high and holy stand-
ard.
	That Infinite love which inspired the Redeemer
to give His life for the salvation of a fallen world
must also inspire an individual to observe that
 which comes so very much in contact with
worldly, selfish natures. If that love, love thy
neighbor as thyself, was universal throughout the 
length and breadth of the universe what a lovely
and delightful state of existence, how different
from the present cruel, and polluted specimen of
Satan's handicraft. But it pleased the Father of
our spirits, in His Infinite wisdom and providence
to place them in a sphere where sin and darkness
abounds, in order to gain an experience which
could not be obtained in any other way. Thus
the purposes of the Creator are obvious to every
reflective mind; for the experience acquired in
this state of probation is not only essential but
absolutely indispensable for improvement, ad-
vancement and progress under all circumstances
throughout time and the endless ages of eternity.
The apostle said Jesus was perfected through
suffering, if so, if it required suffering and afflic-
tion to perfect so pure a personage as the Savior,
how much more so poor, weak, sin-contaminated
individuals?
	Then let us not complain and repine because of
our trials, though the billows of affliction roll high
and threaten to overwhelm us in its turbulent,
murky flood, but acknowledge the hand of our
Heavenly Father in everything, and under all
circumstances, and He will assuredly overrule our
severest trials for our best good, and they will
prove our greatest blessings, if not in time, they
will in eternity.
	At present as time rolls on oppression and
crime with all their numerous retinue of adherent
evils are marching forward with rapid and gigan-
tic strides throughout the whole habitable globe.
	Instead of love for neighbor every device is
brought into requisition by a great majority of
mankind, to wrest from a fellow-being his all of
this world's goods to replenish one's own coffers.
Even the home sanctuary is not exempt from this
selfish, covetous spirit; such is the sad condition
of the world that love thy neighbor as thyself,
sounds almost like an idle word.
	If there is a citadel on earth where a spark of
that Divine attribute can be found it is in a
mother's heart. A mother's love comes the
nearest to Divinity of anything earthly. It is
that pure, unselfish love that personates the
Deity in His love for the human family. A true
mother will lay down her life for her offspring if
need be.
	All selfish and mercenary feelings are swal-
lowed up in that inherent quality; but alas! how
often ill repaid! Nevertheless, although they
neglect, disobey, abuse and trample that heavenly
boon under their feet, they cannot extinguish that
spark of Divinity, that heavenly germ which
stimulates and nerves a mother through her
various trials and arduous tasks, cares, and
anxiety in her unavoidable and almost endless
routine of perplexing and intricate duties com-

[Column 3]

prised in rearing those priceless treasures,
heaven's choicest blessings to poor fallen human-
ity.
	No, that heavenly link between heaven and
earth will survive the drouth of unrequited love.
It will outlive the shame and unutterable anguish
inflicted by a career of vice and crime. It will
follow its votaries to prison and the scaffold.
	Death that mighty conqueror whose fiat lays
low alike, the monarch and the beggar cannot
conquer that Infinite portion of the Deity, that
pure, unselfish love which every saint of the most
High should aspire to, which alone can enable
them to observe that great commandment, "love
thy neighbor as thyself."
	It is a sacred injunction of vital importance for
it essentially concerns our eternal slavation.
	The Lord of life and glory never issued a man-
date that was not essential.
	Then all ye who have adopted the sacred name
of Saint, beware, lest ye dishonor that exalted
appellation through a spirit of avarice, which is
so prevalent throughout the civilized world. That
detestable spirit of greed for wealth and fame is
the bane of our land, its pernicious effects are
visible on every hand and side. Oppression
sways its scepter over the poor and defenceless
without mercy, or remorse, for the burdens and
miseries it inflicts. The cries of the widow and
orphan fall unheeded on the parsimonious and
greed-polluted souls.
	In their frenzied pursuit for wealth and emolu-
ment they stop not to reflect, neither do they
comprehend that there is a higher power, whose
all seeing eye is taking cognizance of their every
act and the cries of the widow and orphan, ming-
ling with oppressed millions are daily ascending
to the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, who hearkens
even, to the raven's cry, Who ere long will mar-
shal His hosts and avenge the wrongs of the
trodden-down and oppressed with a just and 
mighty retribution.
	Already we behold the dawning of a brighter
day when He whose right it is to rule will bind
the power of the unlawful and covetous despots
and proclaim peace and rest to the oppressed of
every nation.
	Then, when the bright effulgence of that
glorious epoch illuminates the earth will love and
peace abound; then will "love thy neighbor as thy-
self," be universal from sea to sea, and from pole
to pole, and the knowledge of the Lord cover the
earth throughout all its vast domains.
