	SYMPATHY.

	How often in times of sorrow these words
recur to our minds—"The heart knoweth its
own bitterness and a stranger intermeddleth 
not with its joys."  Those who have expe-
rienced sorrow of any kind know what it is to
long for sympathy—we have most of us some
sore spot in our heart which needs its soothing
balm.  Sometimes our spirits give way amidst
the fretting cares of life—our heart is discour-
aged—our faith and desires after holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes holiness
weaken, and the enemy of our souls takes ad-
vantage of this state of mind and suggests
that we will not be able to hold out to the end.
A cloud hangs over us which hides for a
time the brightness of our Father's counte-
nance, until we remember there is no help but
in Him.  We go to Him dry and withered
and we plead His promise—"I will be as the
dew unto Israel." We await at His feet until
the dew descends into our souls, and we are re-
freshed, and strengthened and prepared to
face the burden and heat of the day with the
power and freshness of life, and we are led to
see that He has been leading us into closer
communion with Himself by the discipline of
apparent withdrawal—that He may teach us
to lean on nothing but Himself.  We may
have unbroken communion with out Heavenly
Father and may enjoy day by day His sus-
taining presence, still there are seasons of sor-
row and suffering when we yearn for human
sympathy,  when a kind word or deed would
be more than food or medicine, but often it
comes not, and our heart feels crushed until
we think of Him who was divine as well as
human and yet, He yearned for human sym-
pathy while in the flesh, but found it not; al-
though He was ready to sympathize with any
any who suffered.

[Column 2]
	All through the course of His life the shadow
of His cross was upon Him, for He knew all
things from the beginning, what should take
place, and it grew deeper and deeper until He
entered the cloud and on His humanity must
have fallen a mysterious fear, yet He failed not
but steadily set His face to meet it.  Though
He had all power and could have asked and
received "twelve legions of angels," yet, He
must "tread the wine press alone", for His
sorrow was a sealed book to His followers,
"They understood none of these things."
He would sometimes tell them what things
He must suffer and seemed as though He
would fain have brought them into the cloud
with Him—just as we, when some strange
dread hangs over us, we seek to share it
with another, seek how often in vain, we
feel that if we try to express our feelings,
our words are misunderstood, and we cry
out of our sore disappointment, truly,  "the
heart knoweth its own bitterness,"  we are 
ready to faint under the pressure of our own
life, the pain of which none may help us to
bear.
	Let us glance for a few moments at our
Lord's unselfishness and sympathy while
passing about amongst suffering humanity.
The want of devotion in His disciples did
not prevent Him from assisting those who
needed His help.  He healed the sick, cast
out devils, gave sight to the blind, un-
stopped deaf ears, raised the dead, fed the
hungry, and did many works of mercy, yet
He sometimes longed for human sym-
pathy.
	When retiring into the garden of Geth-
semane—whither he went to receive fresh
strength to meet His approaching trial—He
said to His disciples—(those who had hith-
erto shown most devotion to Him) "sit ye
down here while I go and pray yonder." But
when He returned—He had to exclaim in
tones of disappointment—"what, could ye not
watch with me one hour?"
	Again He manifested His sympathy when
betrayed by Judas and arrested by soldiers, He
asks them "whom seek ye?" they answered
Jesus of Nazareth He said unto them, "I have
told you that I am He, if therefore ye seek
me, let these go their way." Though passing
through untold suffering Himself, he did not
wish His disciples to suffer with him, though
in bondage Himself, He would have His
friends enjoy their freedom. Follow Him a
little farther and we see Him in His last
struggle—even in the agonies of death—not
only suffering all that tyrants can heap upon
Him, but even His father withdraws his pres-
ence, yet in the midst of it all He remembers 
His weeping mother, and commits her to
the care of His beloved disciple John.
	And was not His sympathy manifested for
us, when He suffered Himself to be led as a
"lamb to the slaughter" and "poured out His
soul to death"; thereby "bearing our sins and
carrying our sorrows", and which caused His
bleeding heart to send forth an exceeding bit-
ter cry in His last moments when we remem-
ber that "He was wounded for our transgres-
sions and bruised for our iniquities," and that
He bore it all without a murmur, how is it
that we cannot bear our little trials—which
are but a speck compared to His? O how is
it that we cannot bear them patiently, joy-
fully, thankfully?
	But why is it that this subject has forced
itself upon my mind at the present time? It
is because there seems to be such a lack of
sympathy amongst us Latter-day Saints, such
a want of union of heart—of that oneness of
spirit of which Jesus speaks when He says,
"If ye are not one, ye are not mine."  It is
very evident that we must as a people, have
more love, more humility of spirit, more of
that mind which was in Christ Jesus, before

[Column 3]
we can be saved in the Kingdom of God
We are commanded to love the Lord our God
with all our heart, might, mind and strength,
and our neighbor as ourself." St Paul tells us to
see that we love one another with a pure
heart fervently." Thank God there are
many amongst us who are striving to walk in
the footsteps of our Redeemer, and is it not
worth while?  The signs of the times and
the iniquity that abounds proves to us that
the time is getting very short, let us endeav-
or to think less of this earth and more of
that long "hereafter" which lies beyond.
