W. S. A. S. L. CO.

	Minutes of the regular meeting of the Salt
Lake Co., W. S. A. held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms July 21st, 1891. Pres. Eliza-
beth Howard in the chair. Prayer by the
Chaplain.
	The Secretary not being present at the open-
ing of the meeting, Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read
an Essay on Democracy, after which the Sec-
retary having arrived, the minutes of last
meeting were read and adopted. Pres.
Howard announced that the Suffrage Song
Book could be obtained at the EXPONENT
Office, at 10 cts. each, and hoped that all would
provide themselves with one.
	Pres. Territorial W. S. A. Sarah M. Kimball
addressed the meeting, defining the difference
between Democracy and Republicanism:
thought we should not mix religion with poli-
tics, but always acknowledge God. We should
seek to intorm ourselves upon the political
questions of the day and assist others to do so,
that when we do have the franchise again we
may be prepared to exercise it intelligently.
	Said there had been a fear expressed that
through our differences of opinions in politics,
there might be a division among us as a
people, did not think that we should discuss
those subjects in an ungenerous spirit, but
seek to properly understand the different
methods of government.
	M. Isabella Horne, said she did not like
strife in politics, and if women were in danger
of being corrupted by politics, it was time
politics were purified, and that she fully be-
lieved that we should again have the franchise.
	Emily S. Richards was sorry to have missed
hearing Mrs. Mc'Farlane's speech, believed in
Democratic principles of government; our
children should be educated in politics, and we
should be educated ourselves in order to
properly educate them.
	Pres. Howard, suggested a second reading of
Mrs. Mc'Farlane's Essay, as some of the ladies
had come in late and had not heard it, which 
was done.
	Mary A. B. Freeze said that she had enjoyed
the meeting more than she would have done a
dozen concerts, thought that we should discuss
these questions with the kindest of feelings.
	Dr. E. S. Barney made a stirring speech.
The Secretary apologized for being late, and
gave some of her ideas about the subject under
discussion.
	Mary A. B. Freeze and Margaret A. Caine
were appointed to write articles, one on Re-
publicanism, and the other on Democracy,
Elizabeth Price to write on the Tariff, for the
next meeting, the meeting was then adjourned
until the third Tuesday in August, same time
and place.
