ASSOCIATION.

	"The White Cross!" Never was name
more fortunate or purpose loftier than
that indicated by this new combination of
letters, happily grown already familiar to our

[Column 2]

ears. The poetry of religion and the insignia
of a chivalric age here veil a meaning some-
times too rudely told. Although but seven
years have passed since the White-Cross
movement became "A spell to conjure by" in
England, it has spread to Australia, India,
and America, finding everywhere a kind re-
ception, when its plans are understood. Sa-
cred and beautiful is the mission of the White
Cross. The fulness of time has come, the
world is ready for it, and the twentieth cene
tury shall lift it to the sky, the cross of Him
we love—no longer red with tinge of war and
carnage, but white with promise of manhood
that bears forever in its breast the lily of a
spotless life, while as of old its gleaming le-
gend still shall be: "By this sign we con-
quer."
	The work was introduced into this country
by Rev. B. F. Da Costa, rector of the church
of St. John the Evangelist, New York City
and has been adopted as part of its organic
plans by the Church of England and the
Episcopalian Church in America. It con-
templates a distinct effort to educate toward
personal purity every boy or youth in Chris-
tendom.
	This is the White Cross pladge:
	I promise by the help of God—
	First: To treat all women with respect,
and endeavor to protect them from wrong
and degradation.
	Second: To endeavor to put down all inde-
cent language and coarse jests.
	Third: To maintain the law of purity as
equally binding upon men and women.
	Fourth: To endeavor to spread these prin-
ciples among my companions, and try to help
my younger brothers.
	Fifth: To use all possibls means to fulfill
the command, "Keep thyself pure."
	The principle on which this movement rests
is that to be forewarned is the only way to be
forearmed; that virtue based upon knowledge
is safer than innocence based upon ignorance;
and the recital of the creative mysteries from a
mother's or a teacher's lips imparts to the
child's mind such a solemnity and sacredness
as cannot be otherwise obtained. The girl,
and even more especially the boy, who feels a
confidential freedom in bringing to the
home sanctuary the mysterious questions,
sure to be asked and answered somewhere,
will be likely to maintain purity of word and
deed even amid youth's manifold temptations.
Happy the child whose mother has his entire
confidence all his life long. I have been told
by many a fortunate mother that her son
indignantly repelled the degradation of the
common school boy talk upon subjects he had
learned to regard as sacred, by reason of con-
fidences exchanged between himself and her
who bore him.
	The first White Cross pledge ever offered
was sent by me to a bright young fellow of
sixteen, an athlete on the college campus of
our university at Evanston, and a
chief student in the classics. When his
mother handed him the pledge on my behalf
he read it carefully and said: "Well, that's
what I call hard sense. This town is Evans-
ton, and we Methodists like to call it Heavens-
ton, but I doubt if there is a boy here, eight
years old, who hasn't plenty of weeds sown
in his heart. I'm glad the white-ribbon wo-
men propose to plant some lilies there." I
was helped by those frank words. I under-
stood the situation better and believed more
in the work.
	A young minister wrote a prize essay for
the work on the White Cross. He said that
until ten years of age he never went from the
home where he was most carefully nursed by
his widowed mother. On the first day in
public school he heard such language at re-
cess as outraged his sense of purity, and rush-

[Column 3]

ing home he poured out his heart to the dear
mother whose name stood first on his
calendar of saints. But to his astonishment
she turned away from him with indignation
saying: "Charley, never come to me again
repeating what the boys have said, for I won't
hear it." As she thus spoke it seemed to him
that the hand he trusted most was roughly
snatched from the helm of his life barque,
and he thrust out to sea without a guide, nor
did he regain the port of purity until after a
storm of sin that lasted many years. In happy
contrast to this experience is that of many a
white-ribbon mother who has said to me: "My
boy often comes home from school saying,
'Mother they tried to make me laugh at some
of their vulgar words. but I wouldn't listen to
them after the way you and I have talked;
for the mother's gentle lips had keyed the
boy's thought of things forever sacred, to the
heights of holiness. But here comes in the
motto, Noblesse oblige. For all mothers are
not what we could wish. The average teacher
is greatly superior in character and culture
to the average parents whose children are
placed under her care. She knows far better
what to say and how to say it. Every
school-house has three classes of children—
those from homes celestial, terrestrial, and
diabolical. It is so much easier to sink than
climb that, in seeking an equilibrium, the
lowest minds spread their contagion widest;
and the tendency is to keep time at the
slowest step in the last battalion of the
"little soldiers newly mustered in to this
army of temptation and of sin."
		[To be continued.]


