	BY-LAW: X.
	SEC. 1. The General Officers named in
Art. IV., Sec, 1 of the Constitution, viz.: the
President, Vice-President-at-large, Recording
and Corresponding Secretaries, Treasurer,
Chairman of Executive Committee and two
Auditors, with the National Lecturer, shall
constitute a Business Committee to provide for
and control the general interests of the work
in the interim of the annual meetings in Wash-
ington, D, C., and to perform all other busi
ness not otherwise assigned. Of these four
shall constitute a quorum when assembled
after due notice, or a majority may act by
correspondence in response to a circular letter
addressed to every member of the Business
Committee not less than days beforehand, by
the President.
	SEC. 2. The President may call special
meetings of the Business Committee when

[Column 2]
deemed necessary, or in response to the written
request of any three members of the Business
Committee; and shall perform all other duties
usual to such office.
	SEC. 3. The Vice-President-at-large shall
perform all duties of the President in case of
the President’s absence or disability.
	SEC. 4. The Recording Secretary shall at-
tend all business meetings of the Association,
of the Executive Committee and of the Busi-
ness Committee, and the Executive Sessions,
and shall keep a correct record of their pro-
ceedings, and shall give due notice of meetings
of the Executive Committee, and shall apprise
members of committees of their appointment,
and at the first Executive Session of each
annual convention shall read in their order, for
action by said meeting, the minutes of all
meetings of Business and Executive Com-
mittees since the last annual meeting, and shall
also read the report of the Business Committee;
and shall also perform all other duties usually
pertaining to such office.
	SEC. 5. The Corresponding Secretary shall
conduct all correspondence of the organization,
and perform all duties usual to such office; and
shall  also send to the Secretary of each
auxiliary Association notice to prepare a report
of work done by said auxiliary, blanks for
credentials of delegates to the annual meeting
to whom said auxiliary is entitled, and a notice
of the necessity that said auxiliary shall send
dues and list of names and addresses of mem-
bers to the Treasurer of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association.
	SEC. 6. The Treasurer shall keep accurate
accounts of all receipts and disbursements of
money, and shall present a detailed report
thereof to each annual meeting, to be after-
ward published, and shall pay no bill except
on an order signed by the acting President and
Recording Secretary, and at the annual meet-
ing shall give to the chairman of the Com-
mittee on Credentials the whole number of
delegates to which each auxiliary is entitled,
according to the number of members and
amount of dues paid: and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to this office.
	SEC. 7. The Chairman of the Executive
Committee shall preside at all meetings of the
Executive Committee, and shall perform all
other duties usually pertaining to such office. 
	SEC. 8. The Auditors shall examine and
verify the books of the Treasurer,and shall give
a report thereof at each annual meeting.
	SEC. 9. The General Officers of this As-
sociation shall be elected on the last day but
one of the annual meeting.
	SEC. 10. The term of the General Officers
shall expire at the end of the last session of
the (annual) convention proper, and the term
of the newly-elected officers shall commence
with the session of the Executive Committee
held after the conclusion of the convention
provided for by By-law IV.
	SEC. 11. The Business Committee shall fill
any vacancy that may occur in itself during
the interim of annual meetings.
	SEC. 12. In case of the absence from the
annual convention of the National-American
W. S. A. of a State President or State Mem-
ber of the Executive Committee,the delegation
from that State may elect a proxy to represent
the absentee on the Executive Board during
the convention.


