BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	I have chosen these words for the readers
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not because of any
novelty they suggest to the ordinary reader but to
the sensitive appreciation which woman is ever
capable of exercising they may be made to ap-
pear both interesting and profitable in their im-
port.
	Love is the sweetest word we ever speak. It is
the ground work of all our happiness. It is the
kindling of those emotions which are as infinite
s the soul, and is inherited from the Father of


our spirits as the purest quality of his being. A
virtue transmitted to every child of God's great
family wherever found. Without it, life is but a
dreary waste. Its exercise sanctifies every con-
dition, and makes all things lovely. Its develop-
ment in every human being is found to some ex-
tent, but in woman more supremely so. The
youthful maiden's love, so pure and free, makes
man more manly, subdues his stubborn will, and
makes more holy all his aspirations. It is the
great conqueror of all adversaries; subdues the
passion of hate from whence our evils flow and
brings man in harmony with his God. "God is
Love."
	God is the greatest word in our language. It
implies all that is great as well as good; all that
is lovely or loveable. It represents the highest
degree of excellence conceivable to the human
mind in all the virtues and excellence that has a
lodgement in the soul of man,—the image and
likeness of his Maker.
	His greatness is manifest in all, through all, and
over all. His works are marvelous in the eyes of
man. The first and the last—the end from the
beginning He comprehends. We contemplate
Him as perfection in every attribute of our nature
that is commendable, elevating, or desirable
His power and greatness is without limit to our
understanding; filling immensity with His spirit;
all, for the immortality and eternal life of man
for whom the earth and all its joys were made,
entirely adapted to man's happiness, as it once
was. All that the word "God" implies is far be-
yond our finite comprehension. None need un-
dertake to fathom it.
	Now, is a word that seems more simple, more
easy of comprehension. It relates to the present
of our being—a part, a moment of time, of which
we are creatures. It relates to our existence and
involves the conditions that attend us today—this
very moment, the shortest period of time express-
able—all of time that we can say is ours. Now,
the present is certainty, all else is uncertainty.
To-day we live, to morrow we may die. Now is
the time for all things; the time to love, the time
to do, the time to think, the time to act, the time
which is alloted to all things. It does not admit
of procrastination; it has no substitute in time.
	These three words associated together as at
the head of this article imply the whole duty of
man, his greatest and sweetest duties. Yes!
		Love God Now.
	This love of God, begets love to man, and works
no ill. It fills the soul with peace and good will
to man. It gives to man an approving conscience
one void of offense towards God and man. Love
to God is manifest by keeping His command-
ments,—doing His pleasure. We seek to please
those whom we love. We may more profitably
seek to please Him who is the source of all good
and who will withhold no good thing from those
who love Him. This apparent duty should be
done now. The unborn to-morrow may never
come, it is never our's. The soul that is filled
with love to God has love in his soul for all His
works and words. No harm or ill, by words or
works, to fellow-man, can come from him whose
soul is inspired by the Love of God. Let love
then prevail everywhere; in the family, in all its
relations; in the community, in all its associations
and conditions; in the State with all just de-
mands; and charity, the love of God, become the
key-word that shall admit us to the fulness of that
joy, peace, and happiness, of the divine presence
which results from doing duty now.—Love God
supremely.


