EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	On Sunday, June 14th, 1891, the funeral
services of Sister Jane Sabine were held in 
the meeting house of the 20th Ward, Salt 
Lake City. Several of the brethren who
had been acquainted with Sister Sabine from 
her early youth, testified to the goodness
and purity of her heart and her life. She
wae the daughter of Stephen and Maria
Holder and was born at Colern near Box,
Wiltshire, England, November 6th, 1825.
She was married Oct. 9th, 1853, to James
Sabine. On the 6th of April, 1857, she was 
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, by Elder Samuel Neslen,
at Chippenham, in Wiltshire. Emigrated to
Utah in 1868, arriving in Salt Lake City,
Sept. 2nd. She and her husband made their
home in the 20th Ward, where she resided
until her death, which took place at 2
o'clock p.m. June 11, 1891.
	Sister Jane Sabine was one of the many dil-
igent and faithful workers in the Relief So-
ciety whose labors of love will never be for-
gotten by the poor and sorrowing, who are re-
lieved and comforted by acts of kindness from
generous hearts and willing hands. For
many years, Sister Sabine ministered as teach-
er of a district in that branch of the Relief
Society with which she was connected; and
even after being chosen Second Counselor to
President Jane Miller, she still retained the
position of teacher, and faithfully performed
its duties. Only one week previous to the
day of her death, she attended the Fast
meeting and Relief Society meeting, and as-
sisted in arranging and carrying means of
relief to the aged and poor  of the ward.
Two days later, she was suddenly and severe-
ly attacked with pnuemonia, which terminated
fatally in six days. The companionship and
able assistance of Sister Sabine, will be
greatly missed among her friends and asso-
ciates; but to the bereaved husband and children
(a son and a daughter,) and several young
grand-children, her loss cannot be estimated.
But they know in whom to put their trust,
and from whence to seek consolation.
Bless'd children of our God,
	Who, passing 'neath the rod,
Can still look up and say "Thy will be done!"
	And finding sure relief
From loneliness and grief,
	Bow down and praise the Father and the Son.
