	OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.

	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	Present at the meeting, Mrs. May Wright Se-
wall, President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, Cor.
Sec.; Miss Frances Willard, and Mrs. E. S.
Burlingame. Mrs. Burlingame did not vote, as
she came representing informally the President
of the National Free Baptist Woman's Missionary
Society, Mrs. Mary A. Davis.
	In the absence of the Rec. Sec., Mrs. Isabella
Charles Davis, the Cor. Sec. was made Rec. Sec.
of the Conference.	
	The President opened the meeting with a
statement of the reason why the various memori-
als and letters, authorized by the Executive Ses-
sion in Washington had been allowed to wait, it
being thought best that the method of carrying out
the work indicated by the Resolutions passed in
Washington, should be determined by this meet-
ing.
	The Washington Resolutions were then read


[Column 1]
as a whole by the Sec. after which they were
taken up seriatum.
	Resolution 1st.

	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women of the
United States send a memorial to the clergymen of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per
cent of the membership of that denomination has already
by formal ballot expressed a desire that women be ad-
mitted to the General Conference, that the clergy shall, in
accordance with the will of the laity, grant the admission
of women to that body.
	At Miss Willard’s suggestion, it was 
	Resolved:—That the following be sent to the fourteen-
leading Methodist Journals:
	“The National Council of Women, through its
Executive Board, respectfully memorializes the
the Clergy of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
asking that, inasmuch as 62 per cent, of member- 
ship of that denomination has already by formal
ballot expressed a desire that women be admitted
to the General Conference, that the clergy shall,
in accordance with the will of the laity, grant the
admission of women to that body." 
	Resolution 2nd.
	Resolved:— That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee.
	The Cor. Sec. was elected to send a copy of
this Resolution to Dr. Warren F. Randolph,
Newport, R. I., Sec. of the International Sunday
School Lesson Committee, requesting him to lay
it before the next Triennial Meeting of the In-
ternational Sunday School Workers of the United
States and Canada also to Dr. John H. Vincent,
Buffalo, N. Y.; also to H. Clay Trumbull,
Editor of the Sunday School Times, Philadelphia.
	Resolution 3rd.
	Resolved:—That the National Council of Women ask
that women be placed on all committees appointed in the
various churches, for the revision of the creeds.
	The Cor. Sec. was directed to send Resolu-
tion 3 to the official address of the Secretary of
eacn denomination which has appointed, or shall
before 1895, appoint a Committee on Revision of
the Creed.
	It being known to the Conference, that, at the
very time of the meeting, the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church was convened in
Detroit for this purpose, the following telegram
was sent:
	Indianapolis, May 30, 1891.
	To the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church Convened in Detroit, Michigan, (There is
no record of this telegram in the public proceed-
ings of the Assembly, but it was given to the As-
sociated Press and aroused some comment fn the
papers.)
Gentlemen:—
	Presbyterian women having as yet had no voice
in the revision of the creed, we respectfully ask
that, in its ratification, they be now invited to
participate.
	By Order of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Pres., MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Cor. Sec., RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	It was mentioned to the Secretary that both the
Reformed and United Presbyterians are moving
toward a revision of their creeds. 
	Resolution 4th.
	Resolved;—That the National Council of Women urge up
on the National Reform Divorce League,the eminent fitness
and consequent obligation of placing women on its Board.
	After some discussion, it was decided, to ap-
point the following committe to appear before
the National Reform Divorce League, to present
Resolution 4 to that body and sustain it by argu-
ment.

[Column 2]
	Resolution 5th.
	Resolved.—That the National Council of Women shall
present to the proper authorities a formal request that in
all departments of its service the Government shall pay its
employees equal wages for equal work, and that both in
engaging and promoting its employees, it shall consider
efficiency and not sex, and thus set a standard for the
country.
	A Committee was appointed to carry out Reso-
lution 5 by securing the presentation to Congress
of a Bill containing such a provision, and to work
for its passage every Congress until such a Bill
shall become law.

	The Sec. was instructed to make it plain to
each member of thfs Committee that, whatever
memorial it may issue to the Government author-
ties, such document must first be submitted for
the signatures of the General Officers of the
Council.
	Resolution 6th.
	Resolved;—That inasmuch as the Columbian Exposition
of 1893 will afford an exceptional opportunity for the con-
vening the representatives of all countries, the officers of
the National Council shall invite the officers of
the International Council of Women, Millicent Gran
Fawcett, President, to hold its first meeting in Chicago in
the summer of 1893
	In connection with Resolution 6, the following
formal resolution was passed by  the Confer-
ence:—
	Resolved;—That in the meetings of 1893, the National
Council, in inviting the International Council of Women to
assemble in Chicago, will assume the entertainment of all
accerdited foreign delegates to the International Council of
Women; Therefore, so far as it affects the women of this
country, only members of National Associations that have
already entered the National Council can be accredited as
delegates to that meeting.
	Resolution 7th.
	Resolved;—That the general officers shall appoint a
committee whose duty It shall be to report within a year
suggestions for a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good taste.
	In order to see that action be taken on Reso-
lution 7, a committee was appointed to prepare
a Symposium on Dress to be published under the
auspices of the National Council of Women, in
one of the popular magazines during the coming
year;
	And it shall be the further duty of this Com-
mittee to report to the May 1892 Conference, of
the Executive Board of the Council, its idea of an
every businese dress for women, accompanied, if
possible by a model of the same.

	The Cor. Sec. was directed to correspond with
Marion Harland as to the cost of the block of
stone or marble to be placed by  the National
Council in the monument to be erected over the
grave of Mary, the mother of Washington. She
was further authorized in the name of the Coun-
cil to collect money for the same. 
	The following contributions were at once
pledged: Miss Willard, $5.00; Mrs. Burlingame,
$5.00; Mrs. Sewall, $10.00; Mrs. Avery, $10.00.
	A letter was read from the Young Woman’s
Christian Association declining to join he Coun-
cil. A letter was also read from the Officers of
the National Chautauqua at Washington, D. C.,
asking whether the Council would be represented
at their coming meeting.
	The Sec. was instructed to secure, if possible,
a presentation at the meeting, of the work con-
nected with the Council.
	The Sec. was also instructed to correspond
with Mrs, Jennings as to the cost of a tent ot of a
permanent signboard bearing the name of the
Council, to be placed on its lot at Glen Echo.
	The President was authorized to form a com-

[Column 3]
mittee to collect funds for a Woman’s Temple to
be erected at Glen Echo, and to report at next
year’s meeting.
	The following Resolution was passed:
	Resolved;—That at the National Council in 1895 every
State Council may send two fraternal delegates. In States
where no State Council exists, City Councils may each
send one fraternal delegate. No fratemal delegates shall
be received at the National Council from states or cities in
which no Councils have been arganized.
	Resolved;—That a letter be sent out by the officers of
this Council encouraging the formation of City Councils
	A letter was read from the School of Industrial
Art asking how it could secure admittance to the
Council.
	The Sec. was directed to state in reply, that no
ocal associations can enter the Council, and to 
suggest the formation of a National Federation,
of such schools.
	After a long discussion of the proposed motto
of the National Council, the selection of which
was left with the retiring Board of Officers (two
of them being present in person and a third by
representation, and the opinion of the other two
being known.)
	“LIGHT, MORE LIGHT’’
was determined upon. The selection of a design
was left to Mrs. Avery. (Mrs. Avery and Mrs.
Sewall, though in favor of this motto at the time,
were not satisfied entirely because the vote was 
not unanimous, and resolved to hold further con-
sultation on this subject with the retired Board of
Officers.)
	The Cor. Sec. was authorized to proceed with
the publication of the "Transactions of the
National Council of Women."
 	It was resolved that the President of each As- 
sociation which had entered the Council should 
have sent her for distribution fifty copies of the
Council Number of the Business Woman's
Journal, and fifty more should she so request. 
	The meeting then adjourned having lasted from
10 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. with an hour and a half re-
cess for luncheon.


