AGITATION IS EDUCATIONAL.

	The people of this Territory are likely to be
pretty well posted in the principles of the two
great national political parties, judging from the
agitation kept up during the last few weeks on
Democracy and Republicanism in the various
precincts; the best speakers on both sides have
been proclaiming their views on the platform in
the most interesting manner possible, and eluci-
dating the subjects, pertaining to their respective
parties, explaining all the doubtful points, and
giving every one a proper understanding of the
platform he would subscribe to if he voted on
either side.
	These matters are essential to all concerned in
the welfare of the government and all should be
whether voters or not—and if one comprehends
one party and not the other it is not enough, both
parties and the principles of each should be in-
vestigated, otherwise a man (or woman) voting
would be like the Judge we hear of, who when he
had heard one side of the case, decided it because
he argued, if he should hear the other side he
might get muddled, or change his mind; but as it
was the case was clear. It is to be hoped that each
of the great national party platforms are more
correctly understood, now there has been much
agitation of the subject and the case ought to be
clear, and no muddle over the affair from hearing
both sides. It is high time that the great differ-
ences in this Territory were amicably adjusted
after the concessions that have been made to
comply with the requirements of the special laws
framed for the people, who were driven here by
cruel persecution on account of their religion.
	Here they have subdued the desert land and
made it habitable; and founded a provisional gov-
ernment previous to the organic act creating a
Territory. Here they have lived in peace and
security and afforded safe protection for all who
came, whether Jew or Gentile, or of whatever
faith without excessive taxation; the poor could
obtain homes of their own through industry and
frugality and live comparatively independent,
enjoying the blessings of freedom, but the situa-
tion and conditions attracted those who were
desirous of power and influence caring not how it
was obtained, and they flocked hither and saw the
opportunities open to them for wealth, and took
advantage of the unpopularity of an unpopular
people to oppress them for their own aggrandize-
ment.
	Among those who came were some of the
honorable, upright, high minded men and women,
who had other motives in settling here, and these
have shown themselves to be on the side of
justice and equity; they recognize how the
pioneers who came here labored to make it pos-
sible for a great highway to be opened up over-
land from the Pacific to the Missouri river through
these mountain fastnesses.

[Column 2]

	Now the situation assumes a different aspect to
what it has ever done heretofore. The two great
national, political parties have organized in Utah,
and there is still an element calling itself
"liberal" that is opposed to this condition of
things; and after all the requisitions proposed
have been complied with, this opposing power
still continues its determined resistance to the
very people upon whose rights and privileges
it has been trampling. What magnanimity
of character and of purpose they do display in
this persistency. What an anomaly the name
liberal becomes thus misapplied.
	The people who are looking to the best in-
terests of the country are anxious to see the
official positions filled by honorable men whether
Democrats or Republicans, and not by those who
would wrest all the vested rights from the ma-
jority of the original settlers and pioneers and
tax them to build up such institutions as foster
vice and immorality, and lead away the unwary,
and the young and rising generation from the
paths of rectitude and virtue into the sloughs of
evil and iniquity; as some have boasted would
be their delight. Whatever the result may be of
the coming election we feel sure agitation on
political subjects and conditions must necessarily
be educational, and as God rules still in the earth
all will be well with those who put their trust in
Him, though the powers of darkness combine,
and Satan and his emissaries boast of their
strength and skill; yet the Saints know how easy
the Lord can turn and overturn, when His people
hearken unto Him. When the walls of Jericho
fell, how simple was the means the Lord used to
accomplish his purpose.


[Column 1]

