BY-LAWS.
BY- LAW 1.
	For the accomplishment of the object speci-
fied in Article II. of its Constitution, this Asso-
ciation shall seek to concentrate the efforts of
all the advocates of woman suffrage in the
United States by the following methods: (1)
It shall hold annually in Washington one
meeting of delegates (according to the basis of
representation stated in By-Law II.) for the
transaction of business, the election of officers,
and the advocacy of its principles; and it may
hold one or more other conventiens annually
for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It shall
form State or Territorial Associations auxiliary
to itself in every State and Territory where
none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective
States and Territories, it shall promote their
local work by every means in its power. (3)
It shall publish tracts, speeches, and other
documents, and shall furnish the same at actual
cost. (4) It shall prepare and circulate peti-
tions to Congress and to State and Territorial
Legislatures on behalf of the political and civil
equality of women, and take such other
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the
Association.
BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
SECTION 1. Any State or Territorial Wo-
man Suffrage Association may become auxil-
iary to the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association by paying annually into the
treasury of the National-American Association
ten cents per member of the State Society and
of its paid-up local auxiliaries.
SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the Treas-
urer of each auxiliary Association to send to
the Treasurer of the National-American Wo-
man Suffrage Association, before January 1st
in each year, a list certified to by its Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organi-
zation for the current year.
SEC 3. Every such auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
annual convention of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one dele-
gate in addition for every one hundred mem-
bers of the State Society and of its paid-up
local auxiliaries.
	SEC. 4. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association shall be ex-


[Column 1]
﻿officio delegates at large, and every such officer
shall be entitled to one vote in all the business
meetings of the Association.
	
