	MISCELLANEOUS.

	The strength of a nation, especially of a re-
publican nation, is in the intelligent and well-
ordered homes of the people.—Sigourney. 

	God takes men’s hearty desires and will, in-
stead of the deed, where they have not power
to fulfill it, but He never took the bare deed
instead of the will—Baxter.

	It would be an unspeakable advantage, both
to the public and private, if men would con-
sider that great truth, that no man is wise or
safe but he that is honest.—Sir. W. Raleigh.

	Too much idleness, I have observed, fills up
a man’s time much more completely, and
leaves him less his own master, than any sort
of employment whatsoever.—Burke.

	Of all injustice that is the greatest which
goes under the name of law, and of all sorts
of tyranny the forcing of the jetter of the law,
against the equity is the most insupportable.—
Sir. R. L'Estrange.

	If you make yourself up in a bundle of
falsities, you will only attract other such
bundles. If you are true to yourself, you will
attract other true people and things. “True”
means, “express yourself,” it does not mean
“disguise yourself,” nor “suppress yourself.”
If you think a fashion is vulgar, let nothing
induce you to follow it; if you think a costume
suitable, let nothing induce you to abandon
it. Being true in dress is one way of con-
tributing to freedom of the human race.
	With all the pomp and glitter of royalty,
the marriage of Franziska Josepha Louise
Augusta Marie Christina Helena, better
known as the Princess Louise of Schleswig-
Holstein, and Prince Albert Joseph Alex
ander von Anhalt was solemnized at Wind-
sor, England, Monday, July 6. The bride
is a younger daughter of Prince Christian
of Shleswig Holstein, and the Princess Hele-
na, of England, daughter of Queen Vic-
toria. She is 19 years of age and, contrary

[Column 2]
to the general rule of royalty, is decidedly
good looking. The groom is the third son of
the Duke of Anhalt-Dessau. He is 27 years
of age, and is a lieutenant in the First Prus-
sian Dragoon Guards, a regiment of which
Queen Victoria is the honorary Colonel. The
betrothal took place in December last, with,
the usual ceremonies prescribed by the Ger-
man Imperial Court. By the Queen’s express
desire the wedding took place in the private
royal chapel of St. George, which is located
within the royal grounds, a short distance
from the castle.
	The Phrenological Journal for July has
something to say of Prof. Briggs and the
church controversy, and says it clearly and
well, giving a portrait of the reverend critic.
A remarkable Irishmen and public character
was Mr. Kavanagh, who is described, and how
he made his way in the world, despite the fact
he had neither hands nor feet. The character
of Hayden, the great musician, is well limned,
and Dr. Reynolds relates certain interesting
incidents of animal intelligence. In the de-
partment of Practical Phrenology the reader
will be much entertained. It contains a strik-
ing and profusely illustrated article on the
study of character by photographs, and the
first prize essay on the “Utility of Phrenol-
ogy.” “A Pink of Perfection” hits off a cer-
tain type of childhood capitally, and “Wrong
Side Out” is a good illustration of motherly
tact. “Refined Physical Culture” takes up
the subject of exercise on a line that has
novelty, and “Grape Juice” will probably open
the eyes of some of the temperance people.
In his second article on “Systematic Moral
Culture,” the editor opens a new field, and
shows the fallacy of expecting moral stability
without a definite training of the moral
faculties. Many other titles in this number
(631) are deserving mention. Price only 15
cents, or $1.50 a year. It is offered “on trial”
six monthe from this number, the first of the
92d volume, for 50 cents. Send on this,
amount and try it. Address Fowler & Wells
Co., publishers, 777 Broadway, New York.


