FORGIVENESS. 

	There is no bravery like that involved in
the forgiveness of injuries. The man who for-
gives has two victories—one over himself, one
over the person who has injured him. Men
are not slow to appreciate and applaud virtues
they are not so ready to imitate. They will
understand that the sublimest human act is
that of forgiveness. But to appreciate a
noble act is a great deal easier than to per-
form one precisely like it, just as it is compara-
tively easy to look upon the sublime heights
of a mountain; but it requires a powerful, long
continued effort to reach and stand upon those
heights. The man of meanest capacity makes
himself more than the peer of the man of the
loftiest capacity if he forgives him. He who
revenges an injury makes himself the inferior,
not only of his enemy, but of all others, be-
cause he has stooped to a base act. Revenge
is generally disproportionately severe, even
if a man's judgment is taken as a standard,
and he who practices it has laid up for him-
self a long harvest of regret and remorse,
while the man who forgives is at peace with
himself and all  the world, and has transformed 
his enemy into his friend.


L. May Wheeler whose death has been 
widely published in the newspapers of the
day, departed this life at Orange, Mass. June
24, 1891. Mrs Wheeler had a national
reputation as a newspaper woman, and an
advocate of equal rights. She established
The Woman's News" a bright and interesting
paper, always newsy as its name indicated, in
Indianapolis and afterwards removed it to
Springfield, Ohio, where it is still published
though the name is changed to "Womankind."
She was one time editor of "The Budget," a
political paper in Springfield. She filled the
position of Chicago correspondent for the
Minneapolis Tribune, and the Indianapolis
Sentinel, and at one time edited a woman's
column in the sunday issue of the Sentinel.
Mrs. Wheeler was born at Winehendon Mass.,
Feb. 25, 1845, and was of the old Puritan
stock. We remember with pleasure some
very friendly letters from this talented woman,
but at that time had no idea, she was born so
near our own home.—ED.


