EDITORIAL NOTES.

	John and Isabella Beecher Hooker cordially
invite their friends to call on them (without
presents) at No. 234 Pearl St., Hartford Conn.,
from 3 to 9 o'clock Wednesday, August 5th,—
the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage—1841—
1891.
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow is in the city on a visit
to her children, and will probably remain until
the time for the opening of the Manti Temple,
August 26. Her friends will be likely to see her
by calling at No. 55. N. First East St. inside the
Eagle Gate.
	We received a friendly call on Wednesday the
29th, ult. from Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, President of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake who is spending
a few days with relatives in this City. She is
looking and feeling well for a woman of her years
being considerably over three score and ten.
She stated that probably the next Relief Society
Conference in Sanpete would be held in Mt.
Pleasant.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball, lovingly known
as Aunt Presendia among the Saints, has just re-
turned from the Logan Temple, where she has
been officiating for a few weeks past, with health
and strength quite renewed. Sister Kimball has
been suffering for some months past from a
severe injury caused by a fall, which at her time
of life is not easy to recover from, however she
is now able to go about a little upon crutches,
and even that is better than remaining all the
time in one position. Her many friends will we
are sure be glad to hear that she is able to be up
and about once more, even though she can not as
yet dispense with her crutches.
	President Zina D. H. Young of this City has
returned from her trip to Canada and her address
for the present will be No. 55 N. West Temple
St., Salt Lake City. She has enjoyed her visit
very much and reports favorable conditions for
the people in that country, the women's or-
ganizations prosperous, and the health of the peo-

[Column 2]

ple generally good. Mrs. Young left the City,
May 13, and returned home July 23. She is in
need of rest for a few days, but will then be pre-
pared to visit in the several Stakes of Zion and
attend to the duties of her office and calling as
usual, with the assistance of her Counselors and
aids.
	We publish in this issue of the paper the "Con-
stitution of the National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association," By-Laws and Basis of Repre-
sentation, as revised and prepared by the special
Committee, of the Association, and voted upon
article by article, and section by section at the last
annual convention held in Washington D. C., in
February of this year. It is quite necessary that
every county and district W. S. A. should
have these by them, and in fact that every member
of the Association should have a copy. We
have taken great pains to publish these rules and
regulations and all revisions of them that are made
from time to time for the benefit of the women of
this Territory, and also minutes and proceed-
ings of the several Associations, that there may
be a uniformity of methods and action and that
those unacquainted with these matters, may be-
come familiar with what is being done in Utah.
In view of this it seems essential that women
taking part or interested in the advancement and
enfranchisement of women should subscribe for
and read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, also those
engaged in Relief Society work or the childrens'
Primary Associations. The EXPONENT is the
only paper in Utah that keeps posted on these
subjects; and one dollar per year is very little to
pay for so much reliable information on the
various topics that women are discussing at the
present time.
	During the last few weeks a great number of
strangers have visited the City and in strolling
over historic gronnds have called at this office,
and in most instances have seemed specially in-
terested in the past and present of Utah. Some
of them have been people one remembers with
pleasure. Among these we recall F. M. Smith,
and wife of New York, who had called on us at
the office in the summer of 1875, and who re-
membered our conversation on Mormonism and
many of the questions we answered for them at
that time; Prof. Elizabeth J. French, of Phila-
delphia, a briliant lecturer on Temperance etc.
Mrs. W. L. Stanard and Mrs. Annie Mears,
Detroit; Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Montgomery,
Chicago; Mrs. J. M. and Miss Ethelyn Loring,
St. Louis; Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Blanke St. Louis;
besides these of interesting people we must
mention Dr. Geo. H. Roby of Detroit, who came
with a letter of introduction from a friend, and
was accompanied by his daughter, Mrs. L. C.
Waldo, and three children; also Mrs. Rosa Cad-
man Conger, M. D. of Chicago, who is a very
attractive lady, and many others including Mr.
and Mrs. John E. Mc'Elroy, Albany N. Y. who
called when we were absent in Manti, we very
greatly regretted not meeting this gifted and ac-
complished lady, who for some time presided in
the White House at Washington.


