Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon
We are gratified to welcome another book intended to extend appreciation for the Book of Mormon. It comes at an opportune time and is a fitting contribution to mark the centenary of the publication of the book. In a sense it is the story of the Book of Mormon with some of its divine teachings, told through its characters, therefore is very properly entitled, Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon. It is told in modern English, and grips the reader with its fascinating style. The task is not an easy one; consequently we congratulate the author, John Henry Evans, on his signal success.
A thing worthy of note is the fact that the spirit of the book has been preserved. It emphasizes what is perhaps the most important message in the Book of Mormon?the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, which all the prophets bear witness to. Each chapter opens with a story or a bit of philosophy that adds to the interest of the chapter. As an example, we include the following from Chapter Thirteen:
"Hold a fresh lily to your eye and examine its wonders?its white purity, its exquisite outlines, its delicate tracings that no human hand can ever hope to match. And yet all this rich beauty has been made out of mud and slime that gives you a shudder just to look at it. Through the fine arteries of that long, tender stem shooting up out of the still water, in silence and without effort,
 
that filth has been lifted up and been transformed into a thing of incomparable loveliness.
"It is often so in human life. Good may be got out of everything?provided we have a transformer inside us. A lightning stroke that killed his companion made Martin Luther a monk. The ridiculous shoutings and other emotional antics of a religious revival turned Joseph Smith's thoughts to God. And the horrible murder of the Prophet Abinadi awoke in one of Noah's priests a conscience that stirred up great masses to religious devotion. Truly, the blood of a martyr is the seed of the Church, as has been proved over and over again in the history of the world.
"This chapter, therefore, is to tell of one of these wonder-working miracles in the human heart, which have often been known to transform a man into something that surpasses even the splendor of the lily."
The titles of the chapters have a modern smack and add to the interest of the book; for example, "Two Thousand Boy Scouts," "A Nephite Iago." We wish to say something about the mechanics of the book. It is one of the very finest books from a mechanical standpoint ever turned from the press by a local author. It is a beautiful book, bound in brown leather, with a full size statue of the Angel Moroni in gold and a gilded representation of the plates upon the cover. The paper and print are of excellent quality; they are soft to the eyes, making easy reading. It is a source of gratification to have a book issued in such thoroughly artistic form. It should be said in passing that the drawings illustrating ancient American culture and civilization are the work of John Henry Evans, Jr.
When the Sun is Blotted Out
A total eclipse of the sun is a rare sight, indeed; scientists often travel halfway around the earth to observe the phenomenon, which seldom lasts, in any one spot, more than four or five minutes. It is an awesome spectacle to watch the sun disappear, to become aware of darkness shrouding the landscape, to see the stars "come out," and to be startled by the flaming corona of the sun?the blazing gases that fling themselves out into space beyond the black disc that hides the sun itself.
In an eclipse the sun fails. Primitive peoples become afraid thinking perhaps some god has been offended and has blotted out the sun forever. Indeed, the very word eclipse suggests this failing, for, according to Webster's New International Dictionary, it comes from the Greek for "a forsaking, failing." When the sun forsakes the earth in an eclipse scientists quiver with expectancy and excitement while the ignorant tremble in mortal alarm.
