So crisp and fresh comes gay October dancing; The morning's frosty breath is here to stay; Then greet the golden harvest month in passing; Too soon alas, October hies away.
THE GARDEN
Ramona's Marriage Place
Beauty and Romance of Ramona's Marriage Place By Glen Perrins
Nestled in the quiet center of Old Town, the very beginning of California, established in 1769, lies the picturesque and romantic mission, "Ramona's Marriage Place." It was here that the brown-robed Franciscan, Juniper Serra, planted the cross and erected the first of the chain of twenty-one missions which dot El Camino Real, the King's Highway, from San Diego to Sonoma.
What a beautiful spot! Thomas P. Getz, the owner, says:
"There's a certain charm about it, With its flowers and the bees, That seems to rest your spirit And set your heart at ease.
It brings back fond old memories, That time cannot efface, And you feel that God is smiling On 'Ramona's Marriage Place.'"
Years ago the sleepy little hamlet Old Town did not realize the romance and sentiment attached to Ramona's Marriage Place, but that was before Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson wrote the throbbing love story, "Ramona," so filled with life and sympathy. The story sent a thrill around the world. The old church with the first Mission Bells brought from Spain, became well known and appreciated over night. The palm trees, the old graveyard, with
RAMONA'S MARRIAGE PLACE 549
THE WISHING WELL Ramona's Marriage Place
crumbling walls and faded wooden headboards, became famous. Everyone wanted to see the first brick house in Southern California. Old Town became a beauty spot resplendent. Tourists by the hundreds stopped and have since stopped each year to see the wonderful marriage place of Ramona, where she and Allessandro, her Indian sweetheart, were married in the old chapel near the Plaza in Old Town, San Diego.
The front of Ramona's Marriage Place occupies the entire block and each wing is almost 100 feet long. The adobe house with its thick walls rests upon huge timbers bound together with rawhide thongs. "Built originally in 1825 by Don Jose Antonio Estudillo, a pure Castilian, whose family was prominent in California Mission history," says Mr. Getz, "it became the favorite gathering place for the culture and refinement of Southern California and the generosity and hospitality of the Estudillos made
THE FOUNTAIN Ramona's Marriage Place
 
them beloved by all. * * * The tender tradition of Ramona's marriage, which had taken place within this house, never departed from it."
The beautiful story of Ramona has cast a spell over the place. The Patio or courtyard shelters beautiful yellow acacia, olive and pepper trees, shrubbery, climbing vines, roses and old fashioned flowers. Orange trees, lemon, loquat, fig, mulberry, guava, zapata, and Catilia cherry trees all blossom and fruit in season there.
One of the beauty spots in Ramona's marriage place is the wishing well. At this romantic place thousands of tourists each year drink of the sparkling waters, toss a coin into the well, and wish. It is said that many of the wishes are granted. The goddess of Good Luck extends her best and choicest favors to travelers at Ramona's Marriage Place. A grape vine, grown from a
THE SPANISH OVEN Ramona's Marriage Place
RAMONA'S MARRIAGE PLACE 551
cutting taken from the grave of Napoleon at St. Helena, twines about the arbor, always green. In the museum rooms at Ramona's Marriage Place are hundreds of quaint old relics of the past?Indian prayer sticks, bead work and statuettes, autographed letters, curios, etc. One also gets a glimpse in the garden of the "Caretta" of Broad Wheeled Mexican wagon over 200 years old, and also of the old Spanish bake oven.
On a slab of redwood in the garden some unknown poet has written:
TO RAMONA
The world may burn, the sun may quench Its fiery splendor in some vast celestial sea; The moon and stars may fade, like love of fickle jade; It matters not, so long as I have thee.