?Lula Greene Richards
National Conference of Social Work June-July, 1929 By Amy W. Evans
With all the hospitality of the most hospitable Californian, the fifty-sixth annual Conference of Social Work was made welcome to San Francisco. It was a most cordial welcome. The local committee made excellent arrangements and were so thoughtful and considerate for the comfort and convenience of their guests, that the out-of-town members in attendance would be unanimously inclined to give them credit as well for the marvelous weather enjoyed throughout the week.
The registration this year reached a total of 3,387. One thousand of those attending came from east of Denver?a much larger number than was estimated would come from the East. Yet Porter R. Lee, the president, states that the conference was geographically rather more broadly national in character than are meetings in the East. Utah was well represented, with an especially large delegation from the Relief Society.
In making a brief report of the Conference it is impossible even to mention what occurred in each of its twelve divisions, much less to include kindred groups that held meetings just before and during the week of the Conference. Only the outstanding sessions can be touched upon.
One of the most stimulating and picturesque sessions was the meeting on "Pacific Relations," which was addressed by Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Interior, and by John S. Burgess of Princeton-in-Peking. About fifty natives of foreign countries were seated on the platform as guests of the Conference; their presence reinforced the points made by the speakers. Secretary
Wilbur, chairman of the Division of Health when the subject "The Economic Aspects of Medical Care" was discussed, contributed greatly to the session. One session, the Division of the Immigrant, especially interesting to Relief Society delegates, was devoted to the Indian problem. Two of the best informed persons on the subject in the United States, Mr. Lewis Meriam of Washington, D. C., director of the recent Indian Survey, and Mr. Henry Roe Cloud, himself a Winnibago, addressed the session. Mr. Meriam stated the chief program?how to set in motion those social forces by which the American Indians may be enabled to work out the Federal paternalistic supervision, which too often amounts to a rigid military system  into a natural adjustment of the life of the modern world, "like any other people." Mr. Cloud, a fine appearing Indian and a graduate of Yale University, gave an eloquent address on the Indian problem from the viewpoint of his race. What the Indian needs most, he argued, is to be released?a release for his personality, a release from subjugation; to be recognized as a human being and to be aided toward his own development. As a famous Indian chief once put it. "He needs the right to make his own mistakes instead of having others make them for him." Mr. Cloud stated also that many Indians are becoming landless from drifting to large cities, where they usually live in the poorest sections. A motion was made that a telegram of appreciation be sent to Mr. Rhoads and to Mr. Scattergood for their public-spirited acceptance of President Hoover's request that they head the United States Indian Service. The executive committee of the Division was requested to appoint a section to consider, for the 1930 Conference at Boston, a program on the Social Problems of the Indians. The subject of unemployment was discussed in the Division of the Family, also in the Division of Industrial and Economic Problems. These sessions were well attended, the subject being of such vital importance that the chairman had difficulty in controlling the floor; many entered the discussions and had much to say. That the family worker should know what unemployment does to the lives of the individuals in the family group and to community life as a whole, was shown by Mr. Lynde of the Cleveland Associated Charities. To bring home this truth to all who can be of influence in solving the problem, was his aim. The Division of Children was addressed by men and women of accomplishment in this field of social work. Among these was Grace Abbott of the Federal Children's Bureau, who spoke of the opportunities and responsibilities of the Juvenile Court, of the necessity for trained social case workers as investigators, also of probation officers with the newer conception of child study and child guidance. She thought the \Juvenile Court should not be cluttered up with non-support cases, divorce, adult offenders, and mothers' allowances. A report of the Conference would not be complete without mention of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, who was elected president for 1930. Miss Van Waters is referee of the Los Angeles Juvenile Court and author of "Youth in Conflict" and other books on social subjects. It has been four years since a woman was elected president. Miss Margaret Vaile having been chosen at Denver in 1925. "The New Morality and the Social Worker" was the subject of a notable address given at one of the general sessions by Dr. Van Waters.