MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights
ARE you acquainted with Mormon Handicraft? Do you know its worth and fully appreciate the service it can render you and your family? Not only is it establishing some fine community projects, but it is offering you quality articles beautifully and artistically made such as might be found in Bonwit Teller's, one of New York's exclusive shops, yet costing no more than machine-made things of the same quality. The committee is doing everything in its power, such as buying material at bargain prices or in wholesale lots, to reduce the price of its finished articles to the lowest possible level and still give the makers reasonable compensation for their work. Many medium and low-priced articles are now available. Just look at the hand-knit sweaters, fairly radiating a personality of refinement and style, modeled from the very latest patterns with every stitch perfect. Some are knit of llama-down in lovely new shades and fit very snugly to the waist; others are made of snow-sheen which has the appearance of very glossy ratine. These sweaters are the last word in material and classy style?just the thing for campus and sports wear. When one of our patrons saw a dainty dusty-rose model, she could not resist ordering one for her daughter. If the shop hasn't the size or color you desire, an order will procure one for you within a few days. There are sweaters for men, too?slip-ons with or without sleeves. There is a dark maroon model of knitted worsted with a cable stitch and very masculine looking, suitable for sports wear; another is made of white cashmere sport-yarn, more dressy. Any boy would be thrilled to wear such a new spring outfit to Sunday School. There are 18 expert knitters working on this project. Come and see the samples of place cards and favors. A very gifted young woman with loads of originality makes these: dainty ladies in real party dresses, pioneer women in gingham aprons and bonnets, Indian heads, flowers and many others motifs. They are different and charming. Some of them cost only five cents each; others, three for twenty-five cents or ten cents each. Whenever you want to extend your felicitations, express your gratitude, or send your love and best wishes, see if Mormon Handicraft hasn't something which will say it just the way you would like to have it said. One hand-hammered copper bowl with a sego lily etched in the center carried a message of gratitude to a friend in New York, and this is how she answered: "If you had looked everywhere and shopped in every store, Not a gift could you have found that would have pleased me more."
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE April 4 and 5, 1939 By Julia A. F. Lund