RECIPES FOR A LUNCHEON CARROTS-TURNIPS ENGLAISE Peel equal quantity of carrots and turnips. Simmer each in separate cooking pots until tender. Drain separately. Mash each well. Combine the carrots and turnips and generously add butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Pour in casserole, dot with butter, and heat before serving. May be prepared the day before, or a couple of days before. Serve the above menu with a thick slice of honey-glazed ham. SPECIAL CHICKEN SALAD 1/3 c. Chicken broth 2 c. Cubed chicken 14, tsp. Salt and 144 tsp. Pepper 2/3 c. Mayonnaise 2 c. Seasoned wild rice, cooked 1 c. Chopped celery 2 tbsp. White vinegar Simmer a 4 to 5 pound roasting chicken in approximately 3 cups of water with one medium size onion and 2 stalks of celery, salt and pepper. Simmer until tender. Strain broth, cool, and chill so that all grease may be removed. Remove chicken from bones and cut into bite-size pieces, chill. Cook rice and cool. Mix salad in order given. Serve in a large bowl garnished with lettuce. May be mixed the day before. On each table place bowls of green, butter-coated chocolate mints (purchased at a candy store), and plates of cookies made from the following recipe: ALMOND COOKIES Cream 1 c. Of butter and 1 c. Of 1 egg sugar 1 c. Almond paste 14, c. Each of slivered almonds and 114 c. Flour coconut 14 tsp. Each of soda and almond 14, tsp. Baking powder flavoring Mix in order given. Drop from teaspoon onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 350° about 15 minutes or until delicately brown. Cy " Aan." ERRATUM (Recipe for Deep Dish Cherry Pudding) It has been brought to our attention that an error was made in the printing of the recipe for ''Deep Dish Cherry Pudding,' which appeared on page 117 of the February issue of the Magazine. The corrected recipe reads as follows: 4lYZ, qts. Pitted red cherries 314 c. Sugar 114 c. Cornstarch i.> p. Mace 5 c. Sugar 2 cups shortening 1 tbsp. Salt. 8 eggs 21% qts. Pancake mix 1 qt. Milk 287 Following the marriage of each of our children, my husband and I took a "wedding trip" much needed and highly recommended for all parents as a recuperative measure. We returned from the last such vacation we would make in silence. I wandered through the house, room by room, and had not so much a dejected, lonely feeling as one of frustration. Viewed dispassionately, our home was in a shabby, down-atheels, unattractive, middle-aged slump. I turned to my husband, '"My mother had an unusual system for this time of life. Whenever the last child of a neighbor's family married, my mother gave the parents a shower. She invited all the neighbors and friends in for an afternoon of visiting and a shower." My spouse made no response. I thought the situation over for a time. Obviously, I could not give myself a shower, nor could I suggest to neighbors that one 288 might be appreciated. Finally, I decided I would make a