second hope chest and I made myself sit down and list things I intended to accumulate. I was in a department store when the towels caught my eye. I had been silently longing for a pink tile bathroom, with goldcolored fixtures and apple green accents. I selected warm pink towels with gold stripes and a lighter pink to initial in gold. I also found some in solid gold color; these to be initialed in green. J didn't buy haphazardly. I had been using towels all my life, but knew very little about what makes towels good towels. I sought out a buyer and talked with her about towels, and I learned from her how to distinguish a good towel from an inferior one. I learned that a pastel-colored towel is more absorbent than a dark one, because of the dye. I could not lift a heavy towel, when wet, without strain, so, under the buyer's guidance, I selected thick, close terry weaves in medium weight and size. When I got my towels home, I wrapped them in blue tissue and boxed them in a large cardboard box. I taped the edges of the box and labeled it, then stored it on a shelf in the basement. Next came the sheets. I love flowered ones, but frugality dictated white. Again, before making my final decision, I talked with the buyer. I learned I could get sheets made so well that I would not have to bend the mattress to get them over the corners. I looked for these easyfitting corners type. I changed my mind about colored bed linen. I bought stripes galore, with matching cases and those wonderful over-all patterns in gay flowers. I learned ways of making linen ensembles. If I bought two top sheets with fitted corners, I could reverse them, using the fitted ends for the top undersheet and the bottom topsheet. This takes the wear from one sheet and makes them last longer. I went all out for nylon for company sheets. These are a summertime delight, for they are cool. In fact, a nylon undersheet is the best buy in summer comfort I have found, but for our climate it is a bit too cool for winter. It is like sleeping on silk —smooth, cool, luxurious. I really indulged in nylon pillow cases. I have plenty of lovely hand-embroidered and crocheted cases, but I use them only for show. I stocked my hope chest with nylon pillow cases, but decided to try out two pair. Using soap for nylons, I wash and rinse SECOND HOPE CHEST them. I hang them in the air and, in about fifteen minutes, they are ready to use on the bed. I had made quilts during the depression years, but had quite forgotten about them, replacing the worn ones with blankets. When I found a book of quilting patterns in a neighborhood store, I paid my pennies for it and spent the evening ignoring TV while I gloated and dreamed. Imagination raced far ahead of accomplishment, and I finally burst forth, '""Maybe I can't have a shower, but I certainly can have a quilting bee." "Oh, come now." Old Patience tried to discourage me. "No one ever has quilting bees anymore." 1 know that when husbands make a statement wives are supposed to forget the idea birthing in their minds. A week later I unfolded the quilt top I had sewed together from scraps of material from the '"someonemight-need-it"" box. My husband looked it over carefully and commented, "You've got that one block about a quarter-inch out of line." I'm not mathematical, and that quarter-inch I considered mere poetic license. That quilting bee was a real fun session. I still had my oldfashioned quilting frames, so, using dining room chairs padded against damage, we set up the quilt and sewed fine stitches all day long. I'd heard of the new quilting frames that roll, and wanted a pair of them, but these old ones let the quilt stretch out full length for the quilting, showing its lovely design. I used a dacron batt because in our climate, unless you use a dryer, it is quite difficult to find "quilt drying weather," and I am old-fashioned enough to _ like wind-dried bedding. The new synthetics give warmth without weight and launder, backing was of good-grade cotton broadcloth, guaranteed color fast. I had invited five friends to come to the bee and, thimbles riding high, they were there by ten in the morning. Four worked at quilting, one to a side, and we other two spanned the quilters. There is something soul-satisfying about a quilting bee with friends, and eating together. Not only is an expressive work of art accomplished during the day, but friendships are deepened and hallowed, problems are shared, and solutions given through the alchemy of understanding and sympathy. It is really a wonderful therapy. At four o'clock the bee was over, and the quilt was almost finished. It was beautiful. After the "goodbyes and thank yous" were said, I noticed a small package on the TV. Thinking one of the quilters had forgotten it, I picked it up. There was a note on it: "A consolation prize for the first person to catch a toe in our stitches." Quilting has grown into a wonderful hobby for the six of us. We make many quilts, from pieced beauties to lovely satin ones, and all our homes display them proudly. I, however, have reserved my loveliest quilts, wrapped and boxed, with the other linens. My husband was duly impressed by our products of industry. He showed them to everyone, until our new grandchild's picture took over. In fact, stirring through the mending box, he found materials he liked and busied himself on an _ off-day, cutting blocks for his own quilt. He sewed his pattern and made a nice top, mannish and geometric. We went together to get the batt and lining, for he would not shop for them alone. We put the quilt on the frames, and with a sheepish look he produced a large thimble, threaded a needle and started to quilt. I was puzzled but impressed; this was the man who couldn't sew on a button. I left him to his quilting and busied myself elsewhere; in three minutes two seconds, came the call for help. '"'How the dickens do you women sew upside-down stitches?" I hadn't expected to have a quilting bee the next day, but I cancelled appointments and the friends who could come gave me a hand with the quilting, and we finally got it finished and off. It is a beautiful quilt, and my husband explains that he made it, "all but the backhand quiltu 39 ing.