ANTI-POLYGAMY MEETING.

	A meeting of ladies opposed to plural mar-
riage was held in the Independence Hall in
this city Nov. 7, the object being to take ac-
tive measures to arouse public sentiment
against its practice, and to memorialize Con-
gress to make effective the Anti-Polygamy law
of 1862. The meeting was called to order by
Mrs. M. M. Bane; Mrs. S. A. Cook was chosen
Chairman, and Mrs. M. M. Bane, Secretary.
Mrs. Bane in a dignified and business-like
manner stated the object of the meeting. She
informed the audience, also, that a preliminary
meeting had previously been held and a com-
mittee appointed to draft resolutions and mark
out a direct course of action. The meeting
was mostly devoted to business, though some
sentiments were expressed by those who took
part in the proceedings relative to the utter
horror and disg[-]st they felt on the subject of
plural marriage. The contagion was in the
air, and so forth, and we could not help feeling
that in all the wide world there might possi-
bly be a place more genial to them, and if they

[Column 2]
were so thoroughly disgusted with the social
relation here, they would perhaps be able to
breathe more freely somewhere else. Miss
Losee, the Vice-President of the National
Woman's Christian Temperance Union, made
a short speech, and expressed herself very
forcibly in regard to plural marriage, etc. But
as Mi[-]s Losee is a good Christian, and believes
in the Scriptures, we would advise her to cease
quoting from the Old Testament, as the women
mentioned there were nearly all in plural mar-
riage, and Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses and
all the old prophets, chosen men of God, were
all polygamists. It is a wonder that our Chris-
tian friends are not contaminated by having
the Old Testament in their houses. But like
many of the wise and learned of the world
these ladies know how to tear down society, but
can they build up, have they a better way? If
so, will they be charitable and show it to us?
Can they refer us to any of the Eastern cities
where society is in a better condition than
here in Salt Lake? Miss Reed read the address
we publish below, which speaks for itself, as
also does the circular to the clergy and the
memorial to Congress.

