CONTINUED.

	In the Fall of 1838 we left Kirtland, and
with what we considered necessary for our
immediate wants we commenced our jour-
ney to Far West. Our family then con-
sisted of six children, the two youngest
being very delicate in health. My eldest
son was then fifteen years of age. While
we were on our way, a report reached us
that the Saints in Missouri were being
driven, mobbed and persecuted in a most
shocking and terrible manner; we were
careful to investigate the matter, in order
to ascertain its truth. We went on to St.
Louis and waited there until we could ob-
tain the facts in relation to the matter,
which we soon learned were most start-
lingly true. We considered it safest to go
over into Illinois to spend the winter, and
decided upon Carrolton Greene Co., Illinois.
Here I remained with my children alone,
while my husband returned to Kirtland to
settle some business and wait further orders
from the Prophet Joseph. We were in-
formed the goods we had sent up to Mis-
souri were thrown into the street, and the
store burnt to the ground. My eldest son
taught school while we remained there,
and as the persecution was at that time
most extreme, we kept quiet in regard to
religion. We were kindly treated, but
more particularly by two families who were
our near neighbors. In the Spring my
husband returned, and shortly after, accom-
panied by my eldest son, went up to Com-
merce, since called Nauvoo. At that place
they found that the Prophet Joseph and
many others of the Saints had settled and
commenced to re-organize and sustain each
other and the doctrines in which they be-
lieved. Joseph then told my husband to
return to his family and as quickly as prac-
ticable join the Saints there. Meantime a

[Column 2]
man named Bellows, who had formerly
known my husband in Kirtland, recognized
us as the Mormon Bishop's family, and de-
termined to have us mobbed and driven
from the town; but those two families who
had all the time befriended us, offered to
render us assistance in getting away, by
crossing the river in the night. So in a
neighborhood where we had been looked
upon with the greatest respect, we were
treated like outlaws, and compelled to flee
for safety. My husband and son returned
in time to cross the river with us; when we
reached the opposite bank and felt compara-
tively safe from our immediate enemies, I
shall never forget my husband's taking off
his hat, wiping the perspiration from his
brow, and thanking God for our deliver-
ance. Strange how trifling incidents like
these sometimes leave indelible impres-
sions upon the memory which can never be
effaced. From there we went up the river
to Quincy, Illinois, where several families
of the Saints who had been driven from
Missouri were living; among these was the
family of Titus Billings, one of our nearest
neighbors in Kirtland; his wife was the
first woman baptized in Kirtland, and is
still living. We found many other friends
and their families. We remained in Quincy
during the winter, and passed the time
rather pleasantly; my eldest son was fond
of music, and so were the Billings' boys,
and they used to go out together to play
for parties, and thus rendered some assist-
ance in obtaining a living, for we had left
our means in Kirtland.
	Early in the Spring of 1840 we went up
to Commerce, as the upper portion of the
city of Nauvoo continued to be called. We
rented a house belonging to Hiram Kim-
ball, whose widow and children are resi-
dents of this city. Here we were all sick
with ague, chills and fever, and were only
just barely able to crawl around and wait
upon each other. Under these trying cir-
cumstances my ninth child was born. Jo-
seph, upon visiting us and seeing our
change of circumstances, urged us at once
to come and share his accommodations. We
felt the climate, the water, and the priva-
tions we were enduring could not much
longer be borne; therefore we availed our-
selves of this proposal and went to live in
the Prophet Joseph's yard in a small cot-
tage; we soon recruited in health, and the
children became more like themselves.
My husband was employed in a store Joseph
had built and fitted up with such goods as
the people were in actual need of.
	One day while coming out of the house
into the yard the remembrance of a proph-
ecy Joseph Smith had made to me, while
living in our house in Kirtland, flashed
through my mind like an electric shock;
it was this: that even as we had done by
him, in opening our doors to him and his
family when he was without a home; even
so should we in the future be received by
him into his house. We afterwards moved
up stairs over the brick store, as it was des-
ignated. It was during our residence in
the brick store that the Relief Society was
organized, March 17, 1842, and I was chos-
en Counselor to the President of the Soci-
ety, Mrs. Emma Smith. In this work I
took the greatest interest, for I realized in
some degree its importance, and the need
of such an organization. I was also or-
dained and set apart under the hand of
Joseph Smith the Prophet to administer to
the sick and comfort the sorrowful. Sev-
eral other sisters were also ordained and
set apart to administer in these holy ordi-
nances. The Relief Society then was
small compared to its numbers now, but

[Column 3]
the Prophet foretold great things concern-
ing the future of this organization, many
of which I have lived to see fulfilled; but
there are many things which yet remain to
to be fulfilled in the future of which he
prophesied, that are great and glorious;
and I rejoice in the contemplation of these
things daily, feeling that the promises are
sure to be verified in the future as they
have been in the past. I trust the sisters
who are now laboring in the interest of
Relief Societies in Zion realize the import-
ance attached to the work, and comprehend
that upon them a great responsibility rests
as mothers in Israel. President Joseph
Smith had great faith in the sisters' labors,
and ever sought to encourage them in the
performance of the duties which pertained
to these Societies, which he said were not
only for benevolent purposes and spiritual
improvement, but were actually to save
souls. And my testimony to my sisters is
that I have seen many demonstrations of
the power and blessing of God through the
administration of the sisters, but they
should be ever humble, for through great
humility comes the blessing. The Lord re-
members His daughters and owns and ac-
knowledges, in a perceptible manner, those
who are striving to be faithful. I could
say much to my sisters on this subject, for
it is one in which I am deeply interested.
I have been a living witness to the trials,
sacrifices, patience and endurance of thou-
sands of them, and my heart goes out to all
those who are seeking to walk the narrow
way and keep fast hold of the iron rod.
The Father has great blessings in store for
His daughters; fear not, my sisters; but
trust in God, live your religion and teach
it to your children.

To be continued.


