THE NEW CRUSADE.

THERE is much agitation at the present time
here in Utah, on the subject of plural marriage.
Those who oppose it are seeking to strengthen
their forces and sound a loud trump of alarm
all over the United States, calling upon all
Christian men and women to join them in
rooting up this terrible growing evil, which
Mormons have dared to plant on American
soil.
	When men and women enter upon a crusade
it should be with sober thought and mature
reflection. No wise man or woman can say to
the contrary. These opposers of Mormon prin-
ciples feel that they are outraged by the prac-
tice which they so loathe and abhor, and they
have risen up in their might now to wipe out
from the face of this fair land the monster—
	What proof have they that God is displeased
with this principle, or its practice? If they are
the followers of Christ they want God on their
side. "Man proposes but God disposes" is one
of the truisms which daily experience attests
to. This people called, or mis-called Mormons,
came here to this desert land a mere handful as
it were, a band of: tugitives, compelled to brave
the perils of the wilderness, or renounce their
peculiar faith. They had no wealth, scarce
the bare necessities of life; to repeat the story
of their poverty and hardships all bravely en-
dured for the sake of their faith, were only to
harrow up in thousands of hearts, griefs and
miseries now buried in the archives of the
past; but the Lord has blessed this people in
these valleys far-away from civilization, and
they have increased in numbers; and prosperity
has crowned the labors of their hands and brain.
Through their industry and diligence
many have been brought from foreign
lands, when the hand of the oppressor
is heavy upon the poor, to "America
the home of the free and the brave." Has any
other people the same record? No! During all
these years the Latter-day Saints have con-
tinued in the practise of plural marriage? And
where are the proofs of the Almighty's displea-
sure? Has He not visibly interposed in be-
half of this people when famine and war stared
them in the face? If the people were so wicked,
it is strange that God should have so wonder-
fully prospered their efforts to build up and
make pleasant the waste places, until the stran-
ger marvels at the success of this poor, outcast,
despised people.
	Do you realize, you who are so loud in de-
nouncing the institutions of the Mormons, that
it is just possible that God may have spoken to
this people, and if so what are you doing?
Weigh well the consequences and think whe-
ther you are prepared to answer for all the mis-
ery and suffering you are invoking upon a
peaceful, happy people who feel they are con-
scientiously living in obedience to a divine law.

[Column 2]
O, Christian women, let it not be said of you,
that you violate the sacred law of human
kindness, by aiding or abetting in a crusade
against your Mormon sisters. Many of those
engaged in the crusade have once been mem-
bers of the same fraternity—they have borne
strong testimonies to the truth of the Gospel,
and the graves of those they loved are here in
Zion; their relatives and friends who died in
the faith, against which they are now arrayed.
	Why should you seek to oppress, or make
more heavy the burdens of life for any sister,
or brother? Who constituted you judges? You
worship God here in freedom and seek to ad-
vance your own individual religions interests;
does anybody coerce you, or hinder you in the
free exercise of social or religious freedom? Why
do you desire to re-model Mormon society?
Have you a system or code of social laws to in-
troduce that will dry up the fountains of
iniquity in the world? If you have
then indeed your mission is an
essential and timely one, and God speed such
a work. The Mormons are in their way solv-
ing, a problem, you may call it experimenting,
it is God's method, and one that has been intr[-]-
duced in other ages of the world. The Lord
says "He delights in the chastity of women,"
have you some balm to offer for the woes of
those outraged and oppressed by men; some
sure path by which they may return into the
presence of their Creator, if you have, then
help them, for they are sorely in need of succor.
The wrongs of women betrayed and abandoned
are crying from the thousand cities of the
world. The crimes of which these poor de-
fenceless women are accused, are crimes which
must be answered before God by their pitiless
seducers and betrayers. Ask Congress to make,
or devise some method by which women may
be protected and avenged for wrongs com-
mitted against their most sacred feelings,
their virtue and their honor; beseech
them to provide for the neglected
progeny which swarm the cities of the
United States, and growing up in infamy and
crime are filling the prisons with criminals.
	The desire of the marital relationship be-
tween man and woman is for the perpetuation
of their own existences in posterity. This is
lawful and proper, and with this God is pleased
and thus has he commanded, "Multiply and re-
plenish the earth." But what is the condition
of the world to-day? Every one acquainted
with statistics of crime knows that all sorts of
unholy means are being used to destroy instead
of propagate human life. These are the things
that demand attention. These are the evils of
modern society, not plural marriage. Here is
labor for the million; lift up the fallen, com-
fort the sorrowing, and let Mormon women
alone; for rest assured they know how to take
care of themselves and their children, born
in holy covenants.


[Column 1]
