			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT JOSEPH Young, Sen., has lately
issued a neat little pamphlet of sixteen pages,
entitled "History of the Organization of the
Seventies." It is "embellished with a likeness
of Joseph Smith the Prophet and a view of the
Kirtland Temple." It contains several items
of interest connected with the history of the
Church, and the "names of the Presidents and
Members of the First and Second Quorums of
Seventies, ordained under the hands of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his two Counselors,
Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery, on Feb.
28, 1835, in the town of Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio." Enoch and His City is the subject of
one Chapter. A very excellent article on

[Column 2]
"Vocal Music," and the book closes with a song
and chorus expressing something of the mis-
sion of the Elders in these last days.

	THE GENERAL Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
p. m., was one of considerable interest. There
was a goodly number of representative ladies
in the stand and on the platform. Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. There were present
by invitation Miss Losee, Vice-President of the
National Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, and her co-worker in her labors Mrs.
Langdon; these two ladies are from New York
City; Rev. Mrs. McEldowny of Salt Lake City
was also present. After the exercises of sing
ing, prayer, minntes. of the previous meeting
and minutes of Junior Associations were over,
Miss Mary Freeze, a little girl about eleven
years of age, read the minutes of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward. This is
quite a new feature of interest in these meet-
ings. Mrs. President Horne then arose and
presented the subject of Plural Marriage, that
being a topic much ventilated at the present
time by those who oppose it. She then pro-
ceeded to make some remarks upon the subject
herself, giving her ideas, and items of her own
experience in general terms, bearing a strong
testimony to its truth. The subject was fol-
lowed out by Mrs. Zina D. Young and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who each after her own manner spoke
at some length on the subject, giving items of
experiences in the Church, remniscences from
the earlier days and times of poverty and wan-
derings of the Saints, also of the oppression
and persecution this people had suffered for
the sake of their religion; of the glorious fu-
ture there was in store for those who remained
faithful.
	Mrs. Pres. Horne then invited the strangers
present to speak; Miss Losee responded in a
few words, as the time was far advanced. She
said she was here in the interest of the Na-
tional Woman's Christian Temperance Union,
to labor for the interests of Temperance, and
would lecture on Thursday, the 14th, at 3
o'clock p. m., at Independence Hall. After-
wards the congregation arose and sung part of
the hymn "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Prayer by Coun. E. Howard.
	MASS MEETING,—A mass meeting of the
women of Utah is called to convene at the
Theatre, Salt Lake City, Saturday, Nov. 16, at
2 p. m., to protest against the misrepresenta-
tion and falsehood now being circulated, with
a view to arouse public indignation against our
people; and to declare our sentiments upon the
subjects at present being agitated. A general
attendance of all women interested is desired.

