	OPERA HOUSE.

	During three days of the past week some
of them trod that stage.  Have they not
"touched us to finer issues" of thought and
feeling?
	For Portia came, with no self-seeking in
her great heart, with so little prejudice in
her clear brain that it certainly was not dis-
coverable by the most critical auditor.
	The master-poet knew, three hundred
years ago, how to draw the portraits of wo-
men, good and evil.  There the world has
learned to re-kindle its faith in the ideal;
there, too, it has studied the dangers that
beset the nature of woman and of man.
	The types are perpetual; else Shakspeare
would scarcely have copied them. The
women can always be found, if the search
be long enough:
	We are simply remarking that Portia's
sweet eloquence in behalf of justice. Isa-
bella's deep wisdom, and Rosalind's grace-
ful wit, fell freely upon our ears last week.
	One had the pleasant consciousness that
these ladies were not masquerading but
that out of the fulness of their hearts, of
their experience, of their insight, they
were speaking precious words of counsel.
	Of course Shakspeare did not define in
detail the tasks to which his women would
be called, as the centuries should unfold;
but with firm and delicate hand he showed
the capabilities that they possess.
	Portia, indeed, never read a paper upon
"Dress" before any Congress that we know
about, nor did she in her youth discover a
comet. Shakspeare does not predict that
after her head should be brilliant with a
crown of silver hair, she would delight a
large assembly by recounting her experi-
ences in watching an eclipse through a tele-
scope.  But had Portia's training and sur-
roundings been different, she would have
been very likely to do one of these things.
	As for Rosalind and Beatrice, theirs is
the wit that again and again "charms our
pained steps over the burning marl."
	Fortunately their light is never long
missing from any pilgrimage.
	And the heart of Cordelia, thank Hea-
van! beats near us whoever we are and
wherever we dwell.
	But it is inspiring to feel the combined
influence of these gifts and graces.  It is a
privilege to learn so many helpful lessons
at one time.
	It is true that the payment of an annual
fee, the endorsement of a member, and an
assent to the societies constitution, are not
sufficient talismans to enable a person to
immediately don all the virtues and doff all
the faults of womankind; but when we
consider the general tone of the sixth Con-
gress of women, we surely have cause for
satisfaction in the widening opportunities
which the Portias of every century find in
the wise and generous purposes which they
make those opportunities subserve.—Provi-
dence Journal.


IF self be denied for the good of others,
we receive immeasurably more than we be-
stow; we have as many fountains of happi-
ness as there are hearts and lives to whose
happiness we minister.
	KNOWLEDGE is a treasure at once price-
less and imperishable.  Strive above all
things to be rich in knowledge.  You get
more than the value of whatever you give
in exchange for learning.


