THE NEAR FUTURE.

	The scenes witnessed at Worcester dur-
ing the last week are significant.  The
time was when such displays would have
been impossible in this good old common-
wealth.  But our population is fast chang-
ing, and with the change of population has
come the change in manners and morals.
The class that dominated at Worcester
lately is likely at no very distant day to be
the ruling class in this State.  The power
which has been held by the honest yeomen
of the rural districts ever since the old
colonial days has passed into the hands of
the cities, and the cities are fast coming
into the control of the foreign masses that
are ruled and governed by a foreign priest-
hood.  The cities will rule the State in less
than ten years.  Who rule the cities now?
Who will rule the cities in ten years?  Ana-
lyze the vote of Boston for the answer.
Walk through Fall River, Lowell and Wor-
cester for the answer.  The foreign ele-
ments, combined with the irresponsible
part of the native population, will soon
have political supremacy.  They will rule
the cities.  Already it would be impossible
to elect a temperance man as may or of Bos-
ton.  No man go to the city hall unless he
is satisfactory to the liquor dealers and, a
considerable fraction of the criminal class.
Mayor Stott lost his election in Lowell be-
cause he was a temperance man.  If Mayor
Lindsey is re-elected in Fall River it will
be because he is satisfactory to the liquour
people.  All this kind of thing is signifi-
cant.  It opens to us a view of the future.
It tells us what we are sure to have when
the present order of things has ripened
more fully.  The vote on the Prohibitory
Bill last winter shows how things are work-
ing.  On that bill the vote was as follows:
Full vote............................................211.
For the bill..........................................93.
Against it...........................................118.
Absent.................................................29.
	The cities gave 77 votes against and 26
votes for the bill.  The towns gave 67 for
and 41 against it.  The vote of Boston was
38, against and 5 for it.  It is easy to see
where the trouble lies, and as easy to fore-
tell what the future is to be.  Self-preser-
vation requires a union of all the moral
and respectable elements, irrespective of
party lines. In city and State matters
party politics amount to little.  We may
not be near enough to the millennium to
expect an abandonment of party just yet;
but we must come to it soon, or this old
commonwealth will be ruled by the crimi-
nal classes of our cities.  There was a time
when George N. Briggs could be elected
Governor of Massachusetts.  It is doubtful
whether a man of his pure life, splendid
character and high moral views, could se-
cure an election now.  Christian patriotism
has something to do to watch the signs of
the times.


