BEECHER ON GREENBACKS.

	The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher opened
the course of lectures, and entertainments
at the North Avenue Congregational
Church, Cambridge, last evening. His sub-
ject was "The Reign of the Common Peo-
ple," and the purpose was to show the
changes which the general spread of intel-
ligence has wrought in human thought and 
in the relations of men toward one another
and toward governments. Speaking of the
popular delusions which are now engross-
ing the public mind, he said that there was
none which would fade away sooner than
that which the greenback represents. Con-
tinuing on the same subject he said:—
	The idea that a government can create
money by simply stamping paper or leather
is a theory which may live for a day or two
or a season, but if there ever was anything
that would cure itself, that will. I am not
afraid of its ultimate results. I know that

[Column 2]
the people say boldly that it is the govern-
ment that determines the currency. What
is the currency? It is the means by which
a man can exchange one thing for another.
I cannot cut off the corner of my barn and
buy a pound of snuff. I cannot carry
around anything so bulky as an ox. I have
got to have something by which I can ex-
change one kind of property for another.
What should you select? You don't need
to select anything at all; you might as well
talk about selecting the kind of atmosphere
in which we shall live. There is one thing
about which the nations agree, and I don't 
know that they ever agreed on anything
else. There is one thing upon which they
are singularly united, upon which they
stand together, and have stood together for
5,000 years, and that is that gold and silver
shall be the medium by which property
shall be represented and exchanged. It is
not a question which has been determined
by governments at all. All the govern-
ments on earth might pass an edict that
gold shall not represent property and it 
will not make the least difference; or that
paper shall, and it would not make the 
least difference. It is one of those things
which have been determined by the suc-
cessive experiences of nations. For more
than five thousand years we have the ac-
tual record of the proportional value be-
tween gold and silver, varying a little with
time, but still about the same. Down
through thousands of years gold and silver
have been the same. Gold is gold every-
where. Five dollars in gold is the same
everywhere, and the man who has gold in
his hand can go anywhere and exchange it
for property.
	Paper is nothing but a representative of 
gold, used for the sake of convenience, as
property is too bulky for exchange. But
paper is nothing but a representative of
gold and silver, and it is just as good as
they are when it can command them; and 
it is good for nothing when it cannot. Cor-
nelius Vanderbilt went down to the bank
one day with a piece of paper in his fingers,
and he didn't seem to make much of it.
But it was a check for $3,000,000, the larg-
est that had ever been passed there. If he
had tried to pay the same amount in gold
he would have found it a pretty hard job to
carry it. Gold weighs a ton and a half to
$1,000,000, so that he would have had to 
carry nearly five tons. When commerce is
comparatively small gold and silver can be
transported from place to place, and are
convenient; but when commerce extends
it cannot be used conveniently. Suppose a
man in New York wants to pay half a mil-
lion dollars to a man in New Orleans. I
don't want to be suspicious, but I think
there are at least ten men between New
York and New Orleans who would steal it
if they got the chance. Silver weighs
thirteen tons to 1,000,000. They can be
easily handled in small transactions, but in
large ones we have paper as a commercial
contrivance. But your paper is good for
what you can exchange it for. If you can
exchange it for a house or a farm, it is good
for that. If it cannot be exchanged for
property, or for gold or for silver, what is it
good for? All gold and silver represent
property, all paper represents gold, or, silver,
and it ought to represent them definitely.
If you print a five dollar bill you must be
definite about what it represents, wheat, or 
cloth or gold. But it is merely five dollars,
and you offer it to a man and he says he
will not pay gold or silver for it, or you
offer it to the government and it says it will
not pay gold or silver for it, then its face


value goes down.  Why cannot the govern-
ment make paper money?  Because it can
do with a reality what it cannot do with a
sham. Government only regulates exist-
ing values, and in the case of paper it is
proposed not to regulate value but to give
it a value.  There is no government on
God's earth that can give value to paper.
They can say that paper shall be equivalent
to gold and redeemed in it; but no govern-
ment on earth can say that zero means
something.


