	THE INTEGRITY OF RUTH.

	What Christian is there of whatever
creed who has not admired the character of
Ruth? She is immortalized for her con-
stancy to her mother, Naomi, and for her
devotion to her husband's people.  The
Christian women all over the civilized
world hold her up as a model; and repre-
sentations of her beauty, her sweetness, her
grace, are given in many ways and forms;
and her strong affections so impress them-
selves upon womankind, that Ruth is really
one of the most striking illustrations to be
given characterizing Christian women.
But what if to day any woman should en-
act the part of Ruth literally, and insist as
she did, and as Naomi, her mother-in-law,
did, on the strict performance of the law
being carried out with reference to kinship;
why, the modern world would be horrified
and would want special legislation brought
to bear—because it would be "so degrad-
ing they could not possibly endure it any
longer."  Fortunately for Ruth, she died
thousands of years ago, for if she had lived
to day she would have been cast out as
evil; for in this highly enlightened Nine-
teenth century let no woman dare be as

[Column 2]
brave and heroic, or as self-sacrificing and
unselfish as Ruth, or they will be outcast
and despised by these LOVERS OF PURITY (?).
	We are told by Christian teachers in the
world to imitate the examples of the illus-
trious women of the Scriptures; but let
any one do so in reality, the finger of scorn
will be pointed at them.  What does it
mean? That these are women of a type
and class only to be cherished as a thing of
the past, but never re-produced?  Then
why are they models, and how are we to be
benefitted by their example, if we may not
imitate it?  Who does not know that Ruth
not only was anxious to become the wife of
Boaz, but that she, instructed by Naomi,
actually wooed him herself, and that in a
way and manner which to modern fashion-
able women would be entirely unwomanly
and lacking in modesty.  And yet all good
Christians reverence the character of Ruth;
they emblemize her in poetry, in prose, in
painting and in statuary.
	I would advise all those ladies who feel
so constrained to abolish "Plural Marriage"
to re-read the history of Ruth, Sarah, Han-
nah, Rachel, Leah, and the holy women
of old. I would call their attention to the
10th and 11th verses of the 3d chapter of
Ruth:
	"Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daugh-
ter; for thou hast shewed more kindness in
the latter end than in the beginning, inas-
much as thou followedst not young men,
whether poor, or rich.
	"And now, my daughter, fear not; I will
do to thee all that thou requirest; for all
the city of my people doth know that thou
art a virtuous woman."
	It is evident from what is written that
the whole conversation was not given, for
it seems Boaz comprehended that she de-
sired marriage with him.  How very in-
discreet was the widow Ruth, young and
fair and full of grace, and abounding in af-
fection as she was, to wash and anoint her-
self, and put on her raiment, and go and
lie down at the feet of a man and actually
propose to him that he take her to wife.
	Would not modern society be shocked by
the conduct of any young woman who did
the works of Ruth?  And don't you think
that Ruth should have been compelled to
go before the Grand Jury, or a Court of
Justice, and tell them why she washed and
anointed herself (it is apparent that she
had an object in doing so) and what sort of
raiment she put on when she went and laid
down at Boaz feet?
	However, the Lord blessed this peculiar
marriage, and through this lineage came
the Christ, the blessed Savior of the world.
	Does any one suppose that a man as true
and just and exact in observing the law of
kinship in regard to posterity would him-
self be willing to die without? Ruth's child
was hers and her mother Naomi's, if we
may be allowed to understand the Scrip-
tures for ourselves.  Ruth understood the
law of Celestial Marriage, and was willing
to be obedient thereunto, and she even con-
descended to marry an old man.  But we
must beware how we follow Ruth's exam-
ple, only we may talk of her integrity, her
purity, her constancy, and down to the end
of time we may quote her words so touch-
ing and beautiful, "Whither thou goest, I

[Column 3]
will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge;
thy people shall be my people, and thy God
my God."  Rest assured, my Christian
friends, that Ruth knew Boaz to be a man
of God, a man bound by the law of God in
holy and solemn covenants to protect virtue
and chastity in woman; and I think that
all those who are so outraged by the prac-
tice of plural marriage among the Mor-
mons, had better cease holding up as
models the characters and works of holy
women of old.
	In ancient times, we are told, women
ministered in Temples, as Anna the proph-
etess who went not out day nor night.
Does any of our wise men and women
know what she was doing there?  What
business had women in the Temple?  In
fact, what business had those people to
build Temples at all? they must have "cost
enormous sums of money."
	And how dare men in these days to read
in the Bible of the great deeds and works
of women, those pure women with whom
angels conversed; women were judges and
prophetesses in those days.  Is it not a
wonder that their mouths were not stopped?
It is exceedingly lucky for them that they
lived so long ago, for had they dared to do
such things in these days they would have
been called to account.  But what of the
prophecy in the Book of Joel, 2d chap.,
28th verse;
	"And it shall come to pass afterwards
that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh;
and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams
and your young men shall see visions."
	Don't you think that Christian ministers
will be alarmed when the young women
begin to prophesy, and will it not be very
unwomanly, and entirely contrary to Mad-
ame Grundy?  I'm very much afraid it
will.  And the newspapers and the jour-
nals will write them up as very indecent
young women, because they have dared to
step out of their sphere; for certainly
prophesying is no more a part of house-
keeping than lecturing or preaching is.
	All honor and praise to Ruth for her in-
tegrity to the law of God, and honor and
praise to the noble women  to the law of God,
though persecution wax strong against
them and their names be cast out as evil.
