	BY ONE OF NATURE'S DAUGHTERS.

	Let us stand in this "gateway to the
Ocean," with our faces to the East to get
a good view of our picture, and with all
Nature welcome the king of day this beau-
tiful morning; with his smiles and kisses
for our sunny South. Now behold as grand
a scene as ever blessed the eye of art. The
grand old mountains, which almost sur-
round the valley, shall be the picture-frame.
This gateway is like a paved street leading
to the moss and shell enchanted shore of
the peaceful Pacific, fifty miles away, whose
soothing, invigorating breath fans into life
and strength the herbage on hill and plain,
which gives pasturage to numberless flocks
and herds that were once the only known
wealth of the "Golden State." But our
picture frame is not yet sufficiently admired.
That highest peak in the centre is 11,500
feet above the level of the sea. How like
a true monarch he wears his glittering
crown of ice and snow perpetually! And
see the bride-vail-like clouds of mist but
half screen his royal green mantle of pine,
laurel and hemlock! Look at the singing
brooklets come skipping and leaping from
cliff to precipice, bringing pure cold water
to the savage grizzly bear and California
lion, as well as the graceful antelope and
gentle deer, while the mountain dove and
lark keep time to the music they make. O
how glorious are the halls of Nature when
all her children bow in gratitude to the
Giver of every good!
	But let us turn to the works of man.
See the giant centennarian of the forest
tremble and fall by his power; how soon
the noble tree becomes lumber, ready to be
hauled to the valley for the uses of civiliza-
tion. And the gold, marble, granite, and
diamond splendor, acknowledging the sun's
mighty power, is also fast being called into
usefulness by the talent and energy of man.
Now let the eye rest half way down the
mountain side, at the curious springs of
hot, warm and cold water, whose medical
virtues are far-famed; also the extensive
apiaries, where the industrious bee thrives
wonderfully, often filling caves and crevices
in the rocks with the sweet food they
gather from wild shrubs, vines and flowers
nearly all the year.
	But to awaken some fine bright morning
up there and look down on the valley when
enshrouded in fog, causes the most lone-
some feelings; were it not so romantic one
would become sad to view a Phantom-sea,
who's restless waves seem dashing, fretting,
and worrying some fated object beneath
their feathery surface, where reason and
knowledge tell us happy homes and lovely
scenery fill every nook of a beautiful ever-
green valley.
	Now let us look at the oldest marks of
civilization—the ruins of the "Old Mis-
sion," San Bernardine; 'tis but an old
adobie wall now, but could it speak of the
past hundred years, what tales of joy, sor-
row, love and hate we should listen to.
Beautiful orange groves now shade the last
resting place of the once brave warrior and
his dusky mate, once the wild free children
of the deserts, who were tamed and taught
to bow the knee and worship "Our Father
in Heaven," by the Spanish Priests, or
Catholic Fathers. And though lovely gar-
dens of ever-blooming flowers and vast
vineyards hide all the old landmarks and
trails of the Indian, tradition tells of the

[Column 2]
great good works done by the Old Missions.
There are yet some few in this part of the
State whose old rusty-tongued bells call the
faithful to late and early prayers, and as we
listen we seem to hear the gentle zephyrs
whispering and sighing among the fruit
and foliage of the olive, fig and palm, over
the purity and simplicity of the past of this
much-favored spot, which is nearly lost by
the progress of civilization. The "Steam
horse" and fancy phaeton now take the
places of the low, wooden-wheeled cart and
half-tamed ox, with yoke lashed with raw-
hide across his horns. The hollow, old-
fashioned STONE is seldom seen where good
flour mills are almost in sound of every
ranchero. The magic wire brings the news
of the day from the ends of the earth, and
the swift-footed messenger of the long ago
can lounge in the shade of "his own vine
and fig tree." The iron band binds us with
our sister counties, states and countries.
The Church steeple and Court House dome
tower above the graceful shade trees, and
help to remind us where we can seek truth
and justice. Here Old Winter is feeble
and lazy, with lungs too weak to blow the
laughing leaves off the tired, willing stem;
and though his head is green and brown
instead of white, he has not power to bid
the sweet flowers and noisy birds go to
sleep, and so they bud on in sweetness and
sing on in beauteous bowers, in harmony
with the hundreds of artesian fountains
which dance in musical gratitude for the
blessings of sunlight. And when the
young prince, Spring, takes the green crown
from Winter's brow, he rules but imper-
fectly, for the changeful face of Nature, all
tears and smiles at the same time, bewilders
his inexperienced brain, until the gay,
cheerful Queen Summer lends her assist-
ance, and with her mighty power of endur-
ance and industry, the golden grain fields
and bending orchards soon cause the bloom-
ing Queen to realize that her season of
power is over and she must resign the
reins of government into the hands of the
mature matron, Autumn, whose trium-
phant exaltation of gladness is celebrated
with the music of the horns of plenty,
which sound a joyous jubilee of gratitude
to the great Monarch of Nature's kingdom,
and Giver of all good; and though showers
of sadness darken the only void in the re-
gretful heart, the rainbow of hope prom-
ises a reward, and gives a cheering encour-
agement through every storm. For God is
"our merciful Father" to all the life, light
and goodness in this beautiful world.
							M. O. K.


[Column 1]
