	TERRITORY OF UTAH, SALT LAKE CITY,
						November 7th, 1878.

To Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes and the Women
	of the United States:

	It is more than 30 years since polygamy was
planted on the shores of Great Salt Lake. Dur-
ing these years, Congress has utterly failed to
enact efficient or enforce existing laws for the
abolition of this great crime, and we believe
that more of these unlawful and unhallowed
alliances have been consummated the past
year than ever before in the history of the
Mormon Church. The Endowment Houses,
under the name of Temples, are being erected
in different parts of the Territory, costing mil-
lions. It is impossible to ascertain the exact
number of polygamous marriages, for they are
consecrated in these Endowment Houses, an
institution no Gentile is permitted to enter,
and the brotherhood and sisterhood are sealed
and bound with oaths so strong that even apos-
tates will not reveal them, and to maintain
which witnesses on the witness stand unblush-
ingly perjure themselves and on the jury vio-
late all considerations of oath and duty. Con-
sidering all our surroundings, polygamy has
never taken such a degrading and debasing
form, in any nation or among any people, above
the condition of barbarians, as in Utah. It is
degrading to man and woman, a curse to chil-
dren, and destructive to the sacred relation of
family, upon which the civilization of nations
depends, and there are things that cannot be
repeated or printed that reduces the system to
the lowest form of indecency. That it should
be practiced in the name and under the cloak
of religion, that an apostle, a polygamist with
four acknowledged wives, is permitted to sit
in Congress, only adds to the enormity of the
crime and makes it more revolting to our com-
mon Christian principles.
	Our Legislature is composed almost entirely
of polygamists and members of the Mormon
priesthood, and they have thrown around
polygamy every possible legislative safe-guard
in their power; and the right of dower has been
abolished to break down the distinction between
the lawful wife and concubine.
	The Mormons are rapidly extending their
settlements into Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico
and Wyoming. They have the balance of
power in two territories, and are, without
doubt, plotting for it in others.

[Column 3]
	We call upon the Christian women of the
United States to join us in urging Congress to
empower its courts to arrest the further pro-
gress of this evil and to delay the admittance
of Utah into statehood until this is accom-
plished; and we ask you to circulate and pub-
lish our appeal in order to arouse public senti-
ment, which should be against an abomina-
tion that peculiarly oppresses and stigmatizes
woman. It is our purpose to ask names to a
petition designed for Congress, and we hope,
also, that every minister of the Gospel will
commend us to the women of his congregation,
and that all Christian associations will do what
they can to obtain signatures.
	With the cordial co-operation and concen-
trated action of the Christian women of our
land, we may confidently hope that the great
sin of polygamy may be abolished.
	It was explained as the intention to circulate
copies of the above address throughout all the
United States. The following petition was
then read, which is also to be scattered broad-
cast throughout the land and signatures there-
to solicited, the object of the petition being
embraced within itself.

