HYGIENIC NOTES.

Exposure of Children to Cold.—We should say
that no child too young to walk or run should be
taken out when the external temperature is below,
fifty-eight degrees; that the rooms in which they
live and sleep should never be below fifty-eight
degrees and the day room should be three or four
degrees warmer. The practice of wheeling chil-
dren about in perambulators, sitting, or reclining
in one position without exercise, is particularly
harmful. We would earnestly appeal to mothers
to put aside all feelings of vanity, or what is
sometimes miscalled natural pride, and cover the
arms, neck and legs of their children as a simple
sanitary precaution. High frocks, long sleeves
and warm stockings should be worn out of doors;
hats which cover the head, and boots which keep
the feet as dry and warm as possible. On coming
in from our streets, nearly always damp, both
boots and stockings should be changed; and, if
the feet be cold, a warm foot-bath should be used
for a few minutes: The exquisite pain of chil-
blains could be saved to many children by this use
of hot water for hands and feet. We see that
flannel has yielded to merino, chiefly on account
of the greater convenience of ready-made under-
clothing; but there is nothing qual to flannel in
the property of preserving warmth.—British
Medical Journal.


TREES AND RAINFALL.—From some ob-
servations by M. Fautrat relative to the
comparatlve influence of leafy woods and
resinous woods on rain and the hygromet-
ric slate of the air, it appears that pine for-
ests have a much greater influence on the
hygrometric state than others; so that if the
vapors dissolved in the air were apparent
like frogs, we should see forests shrouded
in a large screen of moisture, and in the
case of resinous woods the envelope would
be more pronounced than in that of leafy
woods.  M. Fautrat also shows that pines
retain in their branches more than half of
the water which is poured upon them;
whereas leafy trees allow fifty eight per
centum of the precipitated water to reach
the surface of the ground. He suggests,
therefore, that in planting with a view to
oppose inundations, it would be advisable
to choose by preference resinous trees, as
offering a better covert.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't. Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab[-]e quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
WM. H. ROWE,
