PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

								FEB. 8, 1878.
DEAR SISTER: C—:
	My husba[-]d tells me you would be pleased
to receive a letter from me, if I felt like writ-
ing to you. I assure you I felt the same
towards you, but hearing you were very ill, I
knew you could not write so thought I would
send you a few lines. I sincerely hope you are


better, and will continue to improve until you
regain perfect health; for all the wealth and
all the pleasure that can be obtained in this
world cannot be enjoyed without health. The
past few months you have had to meet things
calculated to try, harass and perplex you, but
then you know there is a promise to all those
who put their trust in God, and that is this:
"As thy day is, so shall thy strength be." We
know that this promise is true, for we have
proved it; therefore it gives us confidence to
trust in Him Who has said not one hair of our
head shall fall unnoticed by His all-seeing eye.
I wish I could see you, for there are many
things I would like to talk about that I hardly
know how to put in writing.
	Dear sister, what shall I say to give you one
word of comfort in your separation from M—?
I will not say in your loss of her, for that would
not be correct, for you are not losing her; she
is only leaving your home in exchange for
one of her own, thereby gaining instead of
losing one. You and I with many more thou-
sands before us have trod in the same path,
and although we may have thought we could
not love any one better than father and mother
(nor can we in that sacred, holy love with
which we enshrine these dear ones, and more
especially when they are gone to rest and we
cannot see or hear them), but as time rolls
along there is a call, one that has been im-
planted in our natures by our Heavenly Parents
for a great and wise purpose, and a nearer and
closer tie bids us leave the home of our child-
hood. Is it to sever the tie between parents
and children? No! verily no! but to fulfill the
great command of God, and to form new ties
of our own as links in the chain that shall
bind family to family, friends to friends, till
the great chain is completed, link by link, and
we are united in one eternal bond, as one great
family in that of our great Father and God.
	Before I conclude my letter I will say that
you shall have my prayers, that you may have
strength to bear your separation; and may God
bless you. And I would ask for your faith and
prayers, that we may be worthy the trust com-
mitted to our charge; I say charge, because I
know that much depends on the woman as
well as the man. And may the bond of love
and friendship increase between us every year
that we live. Give my love to M—— and all
your family, and accept much for yourself.
	From your friend and sister,
								R. F. S.


