EDITORIAL VOL. NO. 8 "Honest and Wise Men Should Be Sought For? I, the Lord God, make you free, maketh you free. Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. Should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever ls less than these cometh of evil (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 98:8-10). ONCE more the time approaches in which "honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently." It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint who is a citizen of this great nation to vote, in accordance with the laws, for the candidates of his choice in the coming primary and general elections. It is also the obligation of every Latter-day Saint, as the Lord has commanded, to seek diligently for honest and wise men. These times are extremely critical in the history of the country, and, to many, the days that lie ahead appear menacing and forbidding, and seem to hold out a threat of conditions developing in the nation even more grave and serious than those of the present time. In such circumstances, it is of vital importance that the great mass of the citizenry express their choice, so that, in reality, the country will be ruled by the choice of the great majority, for there is wisdom in the voice of the people. Every Latter-day should. Prayerfully study the issues involved in the coming state and national elections, and the character of the men and women seeking to represent the people, and then cast her ballot according to her convictions. There is a great record of achievement in voting in the history of the Page 442 Saint woman Mormon woman. From the time of the organization of the Church she was granted the right to sustain in Church gatherings. The early pioneer woman possessed the franchise until Utah became a territory. Later she was again given the voting power, and a Utah woman, Seraph Young, was the first woman in the United States to vote, casting her ballot on February 21, 1870, in a Salt Lake municipal election. Throughout the years when the women of the United States were seeking a woman's suffrage amendment to the Constitution, the Mormon women joined with the national leaders and worked early and late for "The Cause." It will be twenty-four years this month since the nineteenth amendment, granting women suffrage, was added to the Constitution. Latter-day Saint women will show their appreciation of the right to vote by casting their ballots in the fall elections. It is a duty which each woman must perform for herself. Let her cast her ballot for "the honest and wise" that this country, ruled by such individuals, may ever see freedom become more firmly entrenched?that this government, "of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth."