WOMEN IN THE PRINTING OFFICE.

	Reference has been made to the Declara-
tion of Independence; printers may not
know the fact, but even that important doc-
ument was originally printed by a lady,
Mary Catharine Goddard. There were wo-
men in those days. To print that immortal
State paper in the  year 1777 was to run the
risk of losing one's head.
	Miss Goddard was a sister of William
Goddard, the first printer in Providence, R.
I. He also published the Maryland Journal
in Baltimore in the early part of the Revo-
lution. When Benjamin Franklin became
Postmaster-General after Congress had su-
perseded the British government, he ap-
pointed Goddard Comptroller and Surveyor
of Post Roads. While he was thus engaged
in public matters, his sister conducted the
affairs of the printing house with marked
ability, being able to personally perform the
duties of a thorough printer, while remain-
ing clear-sighted, orderly and energetic in
her management of the business.
	Anne Franklin entered the printing office
in 1632. Her husband, James Franklin,
(brother of Benjamin) established himself in
Newport, R. I., in that year, but he died
soon after, and his widow carried on the
business successfully for many years. She
became "Printer to the Colony," and pub-
lished pamphlets, supplied the public offices
with blanks of all kinds, and also carried
on a general publishing business. The New-
port Mercury, now regularly issued, grew
out of this printing office in 1756, and is,
with one exception, the oldest newspaper
in the country. In 1755 Mrs. Franklin
printed for the government an edition of
the "Laws," containing 340 pages, consider-
able of an undertaking for a woman in those
days.
	Mrs. Cornelia Bradford, wife of Andrew
Bradford, was among the first of our wo-
men printers. She carried on the business
with great energy for many years after the
death of her husband, which took place in
1742. The Bradfords, both husband and
wife, stood among the best of the early
printers of Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Hassebotch wife of Nicholas Hasse-
botch, the first printer of Baltimore. She
succeeded to his business at once, and prose-
cuted it with talent and energy. The fol-
lowing anecdote is related in connection
with one of her most important publica-
tions: "In 1773, a missionary had a Bible
in his hand, explaining to a party of Indi-
ans. He pronounced it to be 'the Gospel,
the Truth, the Word of God' 'What!' said
one of them; 'did the Great All-powerful
make this work?' 'Yes,' replied the mis-
sionary, 'it's his work.' The Indian, tak-
ing the literal import of the words, an-
swered indignantly, 'I believe it to be a
great lie. I go to Baltimore last month
when I see Dutch woman make him; the
Great Spirit want no Dutchman help him.'"
	Mrs. H. Boyle published a paper at Wil-
liamsburg, Virginia, in 1774. It favored
the Crown, and lived but a short time. Mrs.
Boyle was a good printer, however, and fully
understood her business.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Timothee, after the death
of her husband in 1773, continued publish-
ing the Gazette in Charleston, S. C. She
conducted it for two years, when, her son be-
coming of age, she passed it over to him.
	From all accounts, the early women prin-
ters in the United States were as remarka-
ble as journalists, as in the more mechani-
cal work of publishing. In all the records
of those days, it is in no instance hinted
that the newspapers were not fully as well

[Column 2]
edited and as energetically published by
women as by men.
	Mrs. Mary Holt, widow of John Holt, was
publisher of the New York Journal in 1793
a paper which had already been conducted
by a woman printer and journalist, Mrs. Zen-
ger, forty-five years before. This publica-
tion performed marked services for the rev-
olutionary cause, and as a reward, the pub-
lisher, Mrs. Holt, was appointed printer to
the State of New York, the only woman re-
corded as ever having filled this office.
	Last mentioned, but not least in merit and
reputation, is Mrs. Jane Atkin. This lady,
at the death of her father in Boston in 1802,
continued his business with a talent and in-
dustry remarkable even among women of
the revolutionary period. Her fame was
high from the excellent character and abil-
ity of the productions issued from her press.
She was also noted as a thorough printer and
a severe and accurate proof reader.
	Mention should perhaps be made of Mar-
garet Draper, of Boston, as she conducted
unaided, the Boston News Letter, the first
regular newspaper published in America.
She was not one of the Republican women,
however, and when the British evacuated
Boston she went to England, where she re-
ceived a pension from the government.
	In the light of these facts, now matters of
history, let us not claim for this decade the
honor of having introduced women into the
printing office. Women opened for them-
selves this extensive and worthy field of
labor, and the success which has always at-
tended their efforts is the best proof of their
capacity as printers, publishers, and journ-
alists.—Rowell's Newspaper Reporter.


