		HOME AFFAIRS.

	SPECIAL MEETING of two days will be held
in Mill Creek Ward, Saturday and Sunday,
June 5th and 6th, and at West Jordan June
12th and 13th.
	MONDAY EVENING May 31st, the pupils of
St. Marks school gave an entertainment in the
Theatre which was highly creditable and en-
joyable.
	A FEW persons interested in the silk culture,
are about organizing a society in this Territory
the object being to diffuse information on the
subject, to encourage the raising of cocoons
and the manufacture of ribbons &c.
	MR. FABIAN'S lecture on Dickens at Inde-
pendence Hall May 27th, was well attended
by an appreciative audience. Mr. Fabian was
a friend and school-fellow of Dickens and well
acquainted with his literary career.
	THE NEW Tabernacle was opened for the
first time since conference, Sunday May 16th,
Elder John Taylor addressed the congregation.
May 23rd, Elder Orson Pratt occupied the
stand. Many strangers were present upon each
occasion and gave particular attention.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and George A.
Smith, Apostles Taylor and Carrington and
some other elders visited Provo and held a
meeting there May 23rd, which was numer-
ously attended, and an excellent spirit prevail-
ed. A special train brought them home the
same evening.
	MISS DELLIE Clawson received her first ben-
efit Saturday evening with an attractive pro-
gramme, a number of the popular and profess-
ional artists and some young Misses volunteer-
ed their services on the occasion. She is a great
favorite with the public and her popularity has
been justly earned.
	AT AMERICAN Fork, June 1st, there will be
a grand Jubilee in honor of the birthbay of
President Brigham Young, the children from
all parts of Utah county are to participate in
the entertainment. Special arrangements have
been made to convey a limited number of
children from this city.
	ON SUNDAY, the 23rd ult., while a number of
children were crossing City Creek, a little above
President Young's saw-mill, a little girl seven
years old, named Emma Hammer, fell in and
was carried down by the swift current. A
gentleman being near and hearing the child
scream succeeded in rescuing her; when taken
out she was insensible but was subsequently
resuscitated.

[Column 2]
	DECORATION DAY was observed at Camp
Douglas with military display. Officers of the
Territory and citizens of Salt Lake City were
cordially invited to participate. The proces-
sion formed at the Court House and proceeded
in line to Camp Douglas where they were
greeted with a national salute after which
there were exercises at the cemetry all of which
had been previously arranged by a committee
—they were then dismissed on the ground.
The day following was observed as a general
holiday.
	THERE WILL be a grand musical entertain-
ment at the Theatre Jane 3rd, under the lead-
ership of Mr. George Careless. The Oratorio
of the Messsiah will be rendered by a large
number of ladies and gentlemen who have
been engaged in practising with a view to this
entertainment for some months past. Lovers
of music and all interested in musical talents
will enjoy this the most carefully trained and
highly finished choir of voices which Salt Lake
has ever produced.


