		WOMAN'S MISSION.

	What is it? How often is this question
asked, and how often most elaborately dis-
cussed, and yet without coming to any defi-
nite understanding or final decision. Wo-
man's Congress, Woman's Clubs, and Wo-
man's Assocaations of various kinds are all
extensively treating upon this subject and
the ultimate issue of this important ques-
tion.  That Woman's Mission is a Home
Mission all mankind affirm, and seemingly
they understand it, in the strictest sense of
the word, to mean the fireside, the parlor,
and the kitchen; that a woman's influence
is always needed there is verily true, but
does that define the complete circle of her
work?  Can she not exert an extended in-
fluence in many ways without confining
herself to these prescribed boundaries?
Must she being a wife and a mother, neces-
sarially restrain all aspirations, for any fur-
ther development, and only live again, or
for the future through her husband and her
children? I can see no other solution to
this question than merging her own indi-
viduality into that of those whose interest
and welfare she is so exclusively serving.
	That every woman has an individual life,
as well as every man, I am bold to affirm
that she herself is responsible to God and to
the world equally with man, also, (even
though she be so fortunate as to secure a
husband) and is woman not held responsi-
ble in this wise and progressive age, for the
conduct, the morality and the social, men-
tal and spiritual education of her children?
If they err, then she has failed in some nice
point of distinction to comprehend her
whole duty, this is the verdict of the world;
women are not only made answerable for
their own faults but for those of future gen-
erations.
	Consequently holding such important
positions as regards the destiny of future
races, their education and advantages should
be the most superior it is possible to obtain.
	That men withold this from women is not
helping but hindering the advancement of
all that is most desirable, and eventually
they will find that public opinion is not to
be relied upon when it asserts:
	"He for God only, she for God in Him."
	May 14th, 1875.
