HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomatoes.—After stewing them a few minutes
and just before dishing them, add a little flour and
sweet cream, pepper salt and butter as in other
dishes.  Another good way to prepare tomatoes is
to slice them rather thickly, salt pepper and roll in
flour, then fry brown in butter, kept a boiling heat
all the time.
	American Yorkshire Pudding.—When scraps of
bread and meat have accumulated, instead of mak-
ing "hash," chop the meat finely, soften the bread
with boiling water, mix the two ingredients to-
gether add an egg or two some salt pepper and
sage. Bake in an ordinary pan; thus you save all,
and have a dish superior to "hash."
	Lettuce.—Gather some nice heads of lettuce ten-
der and crisp; wash and cut in quarters or shreds;
to a proportionate quantity of cream add a small
bit of butter and pepper and salt, heat this to a boil-
ing point and pour over the lettuce covering it for a
few moments.  This dish is said to be a good sub-
stitute for green peas before they are in season.
	Preparing Coffee.—Put the gronnd coffee to
soak over night in enough cold water to wet it all,
in the morning add more water; put it over the fire
and let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then fill
in what boiling water is necessary, and put the cof-
fee-pot on the stove-hearth to settle for fifteen min-
utes.  Coffee thus prepared will be clear and am-
ber-colored, and if left over will heat again better
than if settled with eggs.
	Cucumber Pickles.—Pick and wash the cucum-
bers of not more than three days growth, pack in a
keg or jar in close layers, over each layer, place a
layer of salt in which alum has been well mixed,
say a tablespoonful to each pint of salt; do not add
any water.  When wanted for use freshen them.
Scald in strong vinegar spiced to the taste. Drain
the pickles dry and cover with fresh vinegar add-
ing to each pint of the vinegar a tablespoonful of
sugar. The vinegar which is first poured over
them will inbibe too much of the salt to be agreea-
ble to the taste, and will lose much of its strength
while the fresh vinegar poured over them al-
ready sour, with the addition of the sugar, will
preserve them in full strength.


[First column]
		﻿HYGIENIC NOTES.
	SICK HEAD ACHE Is sickness at stom-
ach, a tendency to vomit, combined with 
pain in some part of the head, generally the
left side. It is caused by there being too
much bile in the system, from the fact that
this bile is manufactured too rapidly, or is
not worked out of the system fast enough
by steady, active exercise. Hence sedentary
persons, those who do not walk about a great
deal, but are seated in the house nearly all
the time, are almost exclusively the victims
of this distressing malady. It usually be-
[Column 2]
gins soon after waking up in the morning,
and lasts a day or two or more. There are
many causes; the most frequent is, derange-
ment of the stomach by late and hearty sup-
pers; by eating too soon after a regular
meal, (five hours should, at least, intervene;)
eating without an appetite; forcing food;
eating after one is conscious of having had
enough; eating too much of any favorite
dish; eating something which the stomach
can not digest, or sour stomach. Any of 
these things may induce sick head-ache;
all of them can be avoided. Over-fatigue or;
great mental emotion of any kind, or se-
vere mental application, have brought on
sick head-ache, of the most distressing char-
acter, in an hour; it is caused by indulgence
in spirituous liquors. When a person has
sick head-ache, there is no appetite; the
very sight of food is hateful; the tongue is
furred; the feet and hands are cold, and
there is a feeling of universal discomfort,
with an utter indisposition to do anything
whatever. A glass of warm water, into
which has been rapidly stirred a heaping
tea-spoon each of salt and kitchen mustard,
by causing instantaneous vomiting, empties
the stomach of the bile or undigested sour
food, and a grateful relief is often experi-
enced on the spot; and rest, with a few hours
of sound, refreshing sleep, completes the 
cure, especially if the principal part of the
next day or two is spent in mental diversion
and out-door activities, not eating an atom
of food (but drinking freely of cold water
or hot teas) until you feel as if a piece of
plain, cold bread and butter would "taste
really good." Nine cases in ten the cause of
sick head-ache is in the fact, that the stom-
ach was not able to digest the food last in-
troduced into it, either from it being un-
suitable, or excessive in quantity. When
the stomach is weak, a spoonful of the mild-
est blandest food would cause an attack of
sick head-ache, when ten times the amount
might have been taken in health, not only
with impunity but with positive advantage.
	Those who are "subject to sick head ache"
cat too much and exercise too little, and
have cold feet and constipation. A diet of
cold bread and butter, and ripe fruits or 
berries, with moderate continuous exercise
in the open air, sufficient to keep up a very
gentle perspiration, would, of themselves,
cure almost every case within thirty-six
hours. Two teaspoonfuls of pulverized
charcoal, stirred in half a glass of water, and
drank, generally gives instant relief.
	RHEUMATISM Affects the joints, the
hinges of the body, in such a way, that the
slightest motion of the ailing part gives
pain. A creaking hinge is dry, and turns
hard. A single drop of oil to moisten it
makes a wonderful change, and it instantly
moves on itself with the utmost facility.
Rheumatism is an inflammation of the sur-
face of the joints. Inflammation is heat; this
heat dries these surfaces; hence, the very
slightest effort at motion gives piercing
pain. In a healthy condition of the parts,
nature is constantly throwing out a lubrica-
ting oil, which keeps the joints in a per-
fectly smooth and easy-working condition.
Rhematism is almost always caused—in-
deed, it may be nearer the truth to say,
that it is always the result of a cold damp-
ness. A dry cold, or a warm dampness, does
not induce rheumatism. A garment, wet-
ted by perspiration or rain, or water in an-
other form, about a joint, and allowed to dry
while the person is in a state of rest, is the
most common way of causing rheumatism.
A partial wetting of a garment is more apt
to induce an attack than if the entire cloth-
ing were wetted; because, in the latter case,
[Column 3]
it would be certainly and speedily ex-
changed for dry garments. The very mo-
ment a garment is wetted in whole or in
part, change it, or keep in motion suffi-
cient to maintain a very slight perspiration;
until the clothing is perfectly dried.
	The failure to wear woolen flannel next
the skin, is the most frequent cause of rheu-
matism; for a common muslin or linen or
silk shirt on a person in a perspiration, be
comes damp and cold the instant a puff of
air strikes it, even in mid-summer. This is
not the case when woolen flannel is worn
next the skin.
	This troublesome affection is cured by
keeping the joint affected wound around
with several folds of woolen flannel; second,
live entirely on the lightest kinds of food,
such as coarse breads, ripe fruits, berries,
boiled turnips, stewed apples, and the like.
If such things were eaten to the extent of
keeping the system freely open, and exer-
cise were taken, so that a slight moisture
should be on the surface of the skin all the
time; or if, in bed, the same thing were ac-
complished by hot teas and plentiful bed-
clothing, a grateful relief and an ultimate
cure will very certainly result in a reasona-
bly short time. Without these, the disease
will continue to torture for weeks and
months and years.
	Inflammatory rheumatism may, for all prac-
tical purposes, be regarded as an aggravated
form of the common kind, extended to all
the joints of the body instead of implicat-
ing only one or two. For all kinds, time,
flannel, warmth, with a light cooling diet,
are the great remedies.
	AIR, SUNSHINE AND HEALTH.—A New
York merchant noticed, in the progress of
years, that each successive book-keeper lost
his health, and finally died of consumption,
however vigorous and robust he was on en-
tering his service. At length it occurred to
him that the little rear-room where
the books were kept opened in a back-
yard, so surrounded by high walls,
that no sunshine came into it from one year's
end to another. An upper room, well light-
ed, was immediately prepared, and his
clerks had uniform good health ever after.
	A French lady became ill. The most em-
inent physicians of her time were called in,
but failed to restore her. At length Dupey-
tren, the Napoleon of physic, was consulted.
He noticed that she lived in a dim room, in-
to which the sun never shone; the house be-
ing situated in one of the narrow streets, or
rather lanes of Paris. He at once ordered
more airy and cheerful apartments, and
"all her complaints vanished."
	From these facts, which cannot be disput-
ed, the most common mind should conclude
that cellars, and rooms on the northern side
of buildings, or apartments into which the 
sun does not immediately shine, should nev-
er be occupied as family-rooms or chambers
or as libraries or "studies." Such apart-
ments are only fit for "storage," or purpos-
es which never require persons to remain
in them over a few minutes at a time. And
every intelligent and humane parent will
arrange that the family-room and the cham-
bers shall be the most commodious, lightest
and brightest apartments in his dwelling.
—Hall's Journal of Health.


THERE is seldom a line of glory written
upon a man's face but a line of suffering
runs parallel with it; and they that read the
lustrous syllables of the one, and stop not
to decipher the spotted and worn inscription
of the other, get the lesser half of the lesson
earth has to give.


