WOMAN'S RECORD.

	PRINCESS Louise is President of the Na-
tional Society for the improvement of the
education of women.
	GOV. Bagley and the senate of Michigan
have confirmed the appointment by renomi-
nation of Mrs. Harriet A. Tenney as State
Librarian for two years.
	MRS. Jonathan Sturgis of New York has
been elected President of a Woman's Board
of Foreign Missions just organized by the
Dutch Reformed Church.
	HARRIET Hosmer will send to the Cen-
tennial Exhibition a set of golden doors.
An English Gentleman allowed her to du-
plicate them for that purpose.
	MRS. Emma B. Ryder of San Francisco
received the gold medal, of the New York
Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital,
for the best clinical report of lectures.
	THE Empress of Japan has decided on the
erection of a college for young girls, who
will become teachers, she has contributed
liberally from her own private purse to aid
in the expense of its construction.
	MRS. Carter of Washington a well-known
elocutionist, gave an entertainment to the
convicts in the State Prison at Charleston,
Mass. Wednesday evening May fifth.
	MRS. Emily Huntington Miller has writ-
ten a story-lecture entitled "The Parish of
Fair Haven."  It is said to be in great de-
mand in church lecture-courses just now.
	A MISS Ethridge of Maine, who was em-
ployed as a book keeper, was lately found
dead in a manner which indicated that her
death had been the result, of a freak of 
somnambulism.
	MRS. Ames, widow of Joseph Ames,
the distinguished painter, has herself
won distinction as a sculptor.  She has
long been noted in this country for her
beauty of character and person, her wit,
and unusual mimetic genius.
	MRS. Lincoln, widow of Ex-President
Lincoln has been adjudged insane by a jury
in the county court, and the evidence of a
number of physicians, as well as some other
corroborative testimony.  She has been ta-
ken to a private asylum at Batavia, Illinois.
	A COMPLIMENTARY reception was given
to Mrs. Caroline M. Severance at the rooms
of the New England Woman's Club, No 3,
Fremont Place, Boston, Apr. 24th, 1875.
Celebrated men have long been the recipi-
ents of complimentary honors, but it is only
recently that women have received any pub-
lic recognition of their services.  We would
heartily endorse the sentiment, "Honor to
whom honor is due, regardless of sex.


THE following youthful exactness comes
from a friend in Hingham, Mass., where it
recently occurred: An exhibition was given
there by Tom Thumb, at which the prices
were twenty-five cents for those ten years
of age, and twelve and a half for those un-
der. It was Johnny's tenth birthday, and
his cousin May aged thirteen thought
it her duty to celebrate it by taking him in
the afternoon to see the dwarf. Arriving at
the door she put down thirty-eight cents
and asked for two tickets. "How old is the
boy," asked the ticket seller. "Well," re-
plied Miss May, "this is his tenth birthday;
but he was not born till late in the after-
noon." The vender of tickets accepted the
accuracy of the averment, and handed her
the proper certficates of admission.


