FLOWERS.

	THE readiest and best way to find out
what future duty will be, is to do present
duty.
	THERE is a transcendent power in exam-
ple. We reform others unconsciously when
we walk uprightly.
	WHENEVER a man is ashamed of his re-
ligion, whatever it is, it is pretty certain
that he has but little of it.
	BLESSED be the hand that prepares a
pleasure for a child, for there is no saying
when and where it may bloom forth.
	TO all men, and at all times, the best
friend is virtue; and the best companions
are high endeavors and honorable senti-
ments.
	TRUE—It is a Chinese maxim, that for
every man who does not work, and for every
woman that is idle, somebody must suffer
cold and hunger.
	WE are among the number who look upon
sympathy as a cardinal virtue. Whoever
lacks this glorious trait in his character we
care not  to form his acquaintance.
	HE who is ashamed of the poor in the
presence of the rich, and of the unknown
in the presence of the famed, may be a base
enemy, but never a faithful friend.—Lava-
ter.
	THE soul that does good to others, grows
in goodness.  He that is a medium of bless-
ing to others is blessed himself thereby.
Hence, selfishness is folly as well as sin; for
while it prevents our doing good to others,
in the same degree it prevents our doing
good to ourself.
	HE who, in speaking of another, depicts
him in odious colors—who does not see, that
it is his own portrait which he draws?  Let us
judge of the sensibility of those whom we
wound in their most tender part, by our
own, and learn to forbear speaking evil of
others.
	WHO ARE RICH?—The man with good,
firm health is rich.
	So is the man with a clear conscience.
	So is the parent of vigorous children.
	So is the editor of a good paper with a big
subscription list.
	So is the child who goes to sleep with a
kiss on his lips, and for whose waking a
blessing waits.
	So is the maiden whose horizon is not
bounded by the coming man, but who has a
purpose in life, whether she meets him or
not.
	So is the young man, who, laying his
hand on his heart, can say,  "I have treated
every woman I ever met, as I should wish
my sister treated by other men."


