A PRAYER OF THE HEART.

Why am I so weak, and weary
Of life's warfare here on earth?
Why do charms that once allured me,
Fill my heart no more with mirth?
I have proved them to be fleeting,
Oh how vain they seem to me!
When I think of joys eternal
That will never cease to be.

Who has cheered my heart in sorrow?
Who has dried my falling tears?
Gently whispering of to-morrow
When would cease my "guilty fears."
When in days of tribulation,
When my soul was in despair,
Doubting e'en of my salvation,
Who then heard His servants prayer?

Who burst the clouds of darkness round me,
And gave hope beyond the grave,
Peace and comfort to surround me,
If I unto truth would cleave?
It was Jesus my Redeemer;
Who came here on earth to die,
That we might receive salvation
With the pure and good on high.

Father! hear my voice I pray thee
Give me grace to persevere;
That my faith may never fail me
While I am a pilgrim here.
Teach my loved ones that true lesson
Which was taught to me in youth;
To seek first for lasting treasures
Rich with gems of precious truth.

Teach me how to guide my children
In the straight and narrow way,
How to shun the snares of Satan,
Set to lead us all astray.
Spare me till my work is finished;
Grant me wisdom day by day
That my soul may be replenished
With a light of heavenly ray.

Then when through with this probation,
And my soul has been released,
I may meet my angel children
With my parents 'mong the blessed;
And be welcomed to the mansion
Which may be prepared for me
To receive an exaltation
With the glorified and free.
							H. M. W.
March 31st, 1875


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms May 15th, 1875, was a par-
ticulary pleasant and interesting one. A
handsome wreath made of hair and nicely
framed, was presented by Miss E. R. Snow
to the President Mrs. M. I. Horne. Each
of the young lady secretaries had contribu-
ted a lock of their hair for the arranging of
the wreath, their names were also inscribed,
and it was addressed to the President as a
tribute of respect. To her it was entirely
unexpected, and it was with some difficulty
she could control her feelings sufficiently, to
return them her thauks and blessing. Coun-
selor E. R. Snow gave an entertaining dis-
cription of the Old Folks Excursion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney made some suggestive
tive remarks in regard to the yonng ladies
engaging in the studies of medecine and
surgery; and the lectures which were to be
given on their account. The other speak-
ers were Mrs. S. A. Whitney, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and Mrs. Watmough each of them
seemingly inspired with the Spirit of the
Lord, prompting them to dwell upon the
subjects brought before the meeting by the
President and her counselors.
	HYRUM CACHE Co. May 15th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society under the Presidency
of Mrs. Christina Liljenquist held our Sev-
enth Annuel Meeting on the 10th inst. at
ten o’clock a. m.
[Column 2]
	On the stand were the brethren J. Wil-
son, C. C. Shaw and P. Christiansen.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
was addressed by Counselor Mrs. Johnson,
upon the necessity of union and the respon-
sibilities of mothers. Mrs Stanley and Mrs.
Barnum spoke mostly upon the subject of
using good langauge. President Mrs. Lil-
jenquist thanked the sisters for decorating
the house for the occasion, gave some good
counsel and instruction—exhorted the young
ladies to use their influence to do away with
round dancing, and asked the Lord to bless
them.  The brethren then addressed
the meeting encouragingly; after which
Elder C. C. Shaw read an address to the 
Retrenchment Society by Miss E. R. Snow.
meeting then adjourned.
	At 2 p. m. the Society met at Elder P.
Christiansen's and partook of a sumptuous
dinner, and in the evening all that desired
attended a ball in the hall, and enjoyed
themselves in the dance.
	We are doing all in our power to sustain
home manufacture; we have sent two young
ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding,
millinery &c., and we hope with our own
exertions and the means we have on hand,
to build a house for the society, and to es-
tablish a school for the young ladies to
learn to make hats, bonnets and many of
the articles we are now importing.
	Our report shows we have paid $38, to
missionaries in St. George, $21 to the P. E.
Fund made two quilts the last year, besides
other articles, and ministered to the wants of
the poor. We have now in the Treasury $100.
We meet every two weeks to work and to 
transact all necessary business, also to im-
prove and comfort each other. We appre-
ciate your valuable paper and wish you suc-
cess.
	Your friend and well-wisher,
			NANCY M. NEILSON, Secretary.
		HARRISVILLE May 16th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society at Harrisville held
their Annual Meeting May 6th, 1875. It
was well attended, the speaking encourag-
ing and strengthening to those present.
	We have not accumulated as much means
as some societies, yet we let no one suffer
in our midst. All the society are willing
to give as much as they are able. We have,
at different times appropriated means to-
wards such purposes as are for the benefit
and building up of the kingdom of God.
	The health of our President Mrs. Melissa
Shirtliff has improved since our last report.
We have a good presidency ahd are progress-
ing gradually. Those who take the EXPO-
NENT appreciate its value.
	Yours Truly,
		MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
	Minutes of The Organization Meeting of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Associa-
tion of Cedar Fort held in the Meeting
house April 21st, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing "Oh God, the
God that rules on high"—Prayer by Brother
Samuel Wilcox—Singing "Sweetly may
the blessed spirit—
	Miss E. R. Snow by request of Mrs. So-
phronia Cook, who presided, addressed the 
large audience, saying she was pleased to
see so many of the brethren manifest an
interest by being present on this occasion—
That in the Church and Kingdom of God
the interests of men and women are the
same; man has no interests separate from
that of women, however it may be in the
outside world, our interests are all united.
She was happy to see so many of the young
men—as a mother in Israel she felt that she
had a right to talk to them a little. She
spoke of the first organization of the young
[Column 3]
ladies—said it was introduced by revelation
from God &c. Gave some account of the
manner in which it was opposed; and even
by parents, who could see no necessity, for
young people to educate themselves in the
religion of Jesus. That parents only need-
ed this spiritual exercise. Said she was
truly thankful to see that some of the young
ladies of this place were brave enough to
manifest a wish to enter into an organiza-
tion.  She mentioned people calling on her
from the settlements, and saying that no
retrenchment was needed with them, they
were not extravagant in dress &c.—Then
she asked them if they had no ignorance to
retrench from, no uncouth manners, no evil
practices, notning at variance with the
spirit of the Gospel &c. which called forth 
responses, in favor of retrenchment organi-
zations, from their opponents. She referred
to the spiritual education of children early
in the church; saying that we had grown in-
to Sectarianism, so far as some of the gifts of
the gospel were concerned—young people
knew nothing of them, only by report.
Said she was in favor of book-learning but
that all the book-learning in the world,
would not qualify them to become Queens
and Priestesses in the courts above. It re-
quired a spiritual culture and education.
She suggested to the young gentlemen that
they move forward; lay hold of spiritual and
mental inprovement, and take the lead of
the young ladies. She urged them to re-
spect themselves too highly to submit to the
adulterating habits of the world, in the use
of tobacco and liquors. That they should
not defile their bodies, (which should be fit
temples for the Holy Ghost) with those
forbidden things. She expressed her be-
lief that the filthy ue of tobacco, so adul-
terated the stomach, and so destroyed the
natural powers of the digestive organs, as
to create an unnatural hankering for strong
drink, and lead to drunkenness. With
many other instructive remarks; after which
by request of the Prest. of the meeting she
proceeded to organize the society. Twenty-
six young ladies were admitted as members
by unanimous vote.
	Elder Samuel Wilcox, having been invi-
ted by President Mrs. Cook expressed his
sanction of what had been said, was thank-
ful for the move being made, and for every
movement for the good of Zion—said that
the cultivation of the young, on whom great
responsibility would soon devolve; was one
of the most important things, with other
words of instruction and encouragment.
	An Anthem was aung by the choir
Benediction by Brother Robert Parker.
		MELINDA COOK, Secretary.
			LEHI, May 20th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	On April the 23rd, we had a pleasant vis-
it from Miss Eliza R. Snow, and Mrs. M. S.
Snow. Held a meeting in the Tabernacle
at 2 o’clock p. m. Sister E. R. Snow gave
some good instructions to the sisters, speak-
ing plainly of their duties as members of
the Relief Society, and showing the differ-
ence there would be in the future in the
positions of those who had attended to their
duties and magnified their calling, to those
who had neglected to do so; urged upon the
sisters the necessity of stepping forward
and helping to establish HOME INDUSTRIES;
said that President Young had made a spe-
cial call to the Relief Societies to assist in
this matter.
	A meeting was appointed for the evening


inviting all to attend, and with the permis-
sion of Bishop Evans. Miss E. R. Snow
would organize the young ladies.
	In the evening according to appointment
meeting opened in the usual way; after
which Mrs. Rebecca Standring was appoint-
ed secretary pro tem.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the object of
these organizations, and referred to the
time when President Young requested her
to organize the young ladies in Salt Lake
City. Spoke with pleasure of the steady ad-
vancement of those who had stood firm to
their integrity from the first. Said it was
the privilege of the young to have a know-
ledge of the Gospel and enjoy its blessings
as well as their parents, and by uniting in
an association they would gain wisdom and
knowledge, and lay the foundation for fu-
ture usefulness in the kingdom of God.
Encouraged them to lay aside and retrench
from everything displeasing in the sight of
God and His servants and be determined to
live to the Lord; improving themselves in
all things, that they might become refined
and cultivated daughters of Zion, settng
an example before the young men worthy
of imitation.
	Said to the young brethren, it was their
place to lead, but inasmuch as they had not
done so in this matter, she hoped they
would follow, and improve the the good op-
portunity they now had to store their minds
with useful knowledge, and get a testimony
of the truth of this work for themselves
and not wait until they were sent on missions
to preach, for if they did they would not
only experience mortification themselves,
but disappoint others who were looking to
them as Elders of Israel from Zion, for in-
telligence they could not impart.
	The organization by unanimous vote
were:
	Miss Orinda Davis, President,
		"Barbara Evans,
		"Sarah Teryusson,
		"Sarah Wardles,
	Mrs. Lizzie Barns,			Counselors.
	Miss Sarah E. Wardles,
		"Lizzie Smith,
		"Sarah Taylor, Secretary,
		"Christie Gadly, Assistant Secretary.
	Seventy-nine young ladies were admit-
ted as members by unanimous vote.
	Miss E. R. Snow then spoke with great
power and earnestnes,s blessed the young la-
dies and asked God to bless them and in-
spire them to do right. She was followed
by Bishop Evans, who expressed his pleas-
ure in the movement, and his willingness
to organize the young gentlemen simi-
larly Mrs. Mary S. Snow made some re-
marks exhorting the young sisters to im-
prove their privileges.
	Meeting adjourned. Benediction by El-
der Isreal Evans.
