USEFULNESS.

	An Essay read before the Young Ladies'
Society of the the 13th Ward.
	It has been long the habit of the world to
look upon woman as a being fitted espec-
ially for adornment.  Upon this name have
the epithets of grace, fragility and beauty
been bestowed, instead of those express-
ions that give us the idea of more solid
merit.  Many women, no doubt care only to
please and shine.  Their lives are made up
of superficial things that fail to make of the 
mind a treasure house. In seeking to make
the person attractive, one should not forget
to make the character solid.
	In the many comparisons that have been
made of man and woman, it has been as-
sumed that he is the foundation and walls
of the building and she—the pictures to
adorn the walls.  The opinions of society
may have made woman think that her un-
dertakings must be necessarially small, but
it has not yet been proven that she is not
mentally capable of performing labors which
require the most determined perseverance
and earnest thought.
	Is it not greatly the fault of women them-
selves that they have been stigmatized as
weak and incapable?
	They are too fond of amusement and ad-
miration; pleasure, to many seems to be the
chief aim.
	Their education is sadly at fault. In-
stead of reading history they read novels;
instead of going to lectures, they go to the 
theatre and instead of learning science,
they learn to play on the piano.
	Understanding as we do that our spirits
came from another world and took up bod-
ies on this for the purpose of experience and
improvement, it is the duty of us all, to
make our lives rich in good works. It
grieves the spirit of our Heavenly Father
for us to spend our time solely upon our-
selves.  Each young lady may ask her-
self, "How can I be useful? I see nothing
particular to do." Begin with asking God
to give you intelligence concerning the
needs of your own soul; to bless you with a 
willingness to sacrifice self-love for the love
of usefulness, and you will discover powers
within yourselves of which you have never
dreamed.						F.S.


