		NOTES AND NEWS.

	NOBODY THINKS of giving the cardinal
less than $500 as a marriage fee.
	A ROMAN Journal "La Voce Della Verita,"
has been suspended for publishing the Pope's
recent address to the German pilgrims.
	FIVE NEW National Banks were author-
ized to commence business on the 17th inst.
in various places in New England, and one
in Alleghany City Pa.
	THE GOVERNOR of Missouri has appointed
Thursday, June 3rd, as a day of humiliation
of fasting and prayer on account of the 
grasshopper pestilence.
	IN ONE part of Norway, the longest day
is three months.  The Omaha Herald says
"what a splendid chance for a lazy man to
start a daily paper."
	ON MONDAY May 10th, a subscription
of $100,000 was raised in Burlington Iowa,
for the construction of the Burlington and
North Western narrow gauge railroad.
	A YOUNG lady of Cuzco the old capital of
the Incas has applied for permission to
study for the degree of Doctor of Laws and
the Peruvian Minister of Justice has replied
favorably.
	COUNCIL BLUFFS Iowa acknowledged by
a public demonstration and a torch light
procession, on the night of May 15, the late
decision of the U. S. Circuit Court declaring
that city to be the Eeastern terminus of the 
U.P.R.R.
	MR. CHARLES Bradlaugh will visit Amer-
ica again in October on another lecturing
tour. His two new lectures are "An Eng-
lishman's view of American Policies," and
"The Labor Question in the Old and New
Worlds."
	A PNEUMATIC tube is to be introduced
into the Palace Hotel at San Francisco to
convey letters and newspapers from the of-
fice to every floor above.  On each floor a 
box will be placed for the reception of let-
ters.  These will be shot down to the office
through the pneumatic tube.
	IN REPLY to an invitation to attend the
Centennial Celebration Gen. Garabaldi has
sent an autograph letter in which he says:
"I will certainly make every possible effort
to have my country participate in the mag-
nificent celebration which is to be held in
Philadelphia. I deeply regret I am not
able to come myself."
	THE BODY of a woman which had been
buried eighteen months in Westfield Mass.
was recently exhumed. On opening the
coffin the corpse was turned over, the hands
were stretched in the hair of the head and
her burial clothing was nearly torn in 
shreds.  There can be little doubt that she
was buried alive and must have suffered
untold agonies.—Boston Transcript.
	MRS. A. J. Dunniway's letter to the
Woman's Journal published May 8th, shows
how the cause of "Woman" is progressing
in Oregon, notwithstanding the opposition.
Thank God for all help towards the social,
mental and religious elevation of woman.
Mrs. Dunniway says she wishes they had
more workers, I would say the same in be-
half of Utah.

[Column 2]
	TERRIBLE DESTRUCTIVE fires have been
raging in the East within the last few days,
the loss in Cincinnati, Ohio and in some parts
of Penn. is enormous.  The town of Osceo-
la in Penn. is said to be entirely destroy-
ed, its inhabitants renderd homeless. The
fire has also seriously damaged the railroad
for some distance.
	THE BOSTON Pilot and some other papers
which are anxious to herald forth their con-
tempt for women have published an extract
from the speech of Mr. Leatham M. P. for
Huddersfield, in which he makes the asser-
tion the Queen has been dragged into the
woman question, and explains she is ruled
by the advice of her Ministers, and he
thanks God they are men not women.
	A CURIOUS record has recently been found
at Pompeii.  It was scratched on the stucco
of a kitchen wall, and has been thus trans-
lated "Lighted the fire, cooked his meals,
and swept his house for him 28,000 times,
and he refuses to take me to the circus."
Beneath this in a different hand is written.
"Women are never satisfied."
	THE SIAMESE gentry will probably have
the privilege taken from them which allow-
ed them to pawn their wife and children
into slavery in payments of debts contracted
by gambling or opium-smoking. Mrs. Dean,
wife of the Rev. Dr. Dean of Siam present-
ed a petition praying for the abrogation of this
law, to the young King which was favora-
bly received.  It was signed by most of the
European ladies at Bangkok.
	MISS ALTA M. Heulett attorny at law in
Chicago, is remarkable for her success in the
profession she is only 20 yrs. of age and has
a practice worth $4,000 a year.  She deliv-
ered the oration last year on the occasion of
the laying of the corner stone of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.  She may justly be
proud of her ability and influence.  It is
anticipared she will visit California this
summer and lecture in San Francisco and
other places.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	A YOUNG married man at Rockland, Me.,
became jealous of his wife at an entertain-
ment, and told her on reaching home that
he intended to commit suicide, and was told
to go ahead.  He accordingly procured a
rope, and making due preparation, swung
himself off, calculating, however, that he
would be cut down in season to save his life,
the alarm was given, and the neighbors
hastened to the rescue, but before a knife
could be found to cut him down, the luck-
less wight was black in the face and near-
ly dead.  He is getting over the consequen-
ces, and think's it dosen't pay to run so
much risk for the pleasure of frightening
his better half.
	A FLORIDA man has several "Indian
mounds" upon his land, one of which he
recently opened, and found that it contain-
ed skeletons of men, some of which were
nine feet in length, and from their peculiar
shaped faces he judged that they must have
belonged to a race beyond the memory of
man. He also found arrows of peculiar con-
struction, tipped with some metal resem-

[Column 2]
bling nichel, besides other treasures that he
is not disposed to reveal just yet.  The Pa-
latka Herald says: "There was an old tra-
dition among the Seminoles that Florida
had been inhabited by a civilized or semi-
civilized race, and that they were mostly
artisans, although great in war, and they
had amassed great treasures which were al-
ways buried with them."
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Concord Moni-
tor says that a physcian in that city who
was attending a sick musician during con-
valescence suggested to the latter that it
would be agreeable to hear a little music
during his visits.  The musician fell in with
the suggestion and frequently regaled the
doctor with the concord of sweet sounds.
Time sped rapidly away, and the day ar-
rived for presentation of that little bill for
medical attendance, which amounted to
about $100.  The bill was presented, but the
physician was surprised and disgusted by the
presentation of the following counter charg-
es, which he was ultimately compelled to al-
low: For playing "Oft in the Stilly night,"
six variations, $10; "Sweet Home," three
variations, $5; "German Waltz," one varia-
tion, $2; "Yankee Doodle," six variations,
$10; "Last Rose of Summer," six variations,
$10; solo, "Arkansas Traveler," six varia-
tions, $10; solo, six burlesque variations on
"Pop Goes the Weasel," $10; "Sweet Al-
len," .50; "New Century Hornpipe," .50;
"New Country Hornpipe," .50; "Fisher's
Hornpipe," .50. Total $59.
	IN the business street of an enterprising
village, not many miles from here, an obsti-
nate horse stopped, the other day, contrary
to the driver's wishes and despite sundry
desperate demonstrations on his part. The
society with the long name did not appear,
but a hackney-coachman with a barrel hoop,
a butcher's boy clutching a piece of board,
a stable-keeper with a tremendous whip,
and three burly hostlers armed with smaller
whips, gave the poor animal what Paddy
gave the drum.  But he wouldn't budge an
inch. Then they twisted his tail, fastened
a string around one of his legs, put dirt in
his mouth, stuck a stick in his ear, and a
numerous sidewalk committee, with the
usual officiousness, suggested a hot iron,
sawing his mouth with a rope and various
other ways of diverting the attention of a
balky horse—all without avail. The lean
charger was warranted to stand—and he
did stand a vast amount of pounding, kick-
ing and jerking. At the end of a half hour,
profanity, and cruelty, were below par, and
the matter wore a serious aspect, when a
good-natured Irish woman made her way
through the crowd with a pailfull of swill,
which she held to the mouth of the much
abused creature, with a kindly "Be after
takin' a bite of that, me honey?"  The 
horse sniffed wonderingly at the offal, and 
in the next moment was trotting down town
at a fearful rate. Only another infallible
means of starting a balky horse—that's all.


A LITTLE American lad who had just
commenced reading the papers, asked his
father if the word "Hon." prefixed to the 
name of a member of Congress meant "hon-
est."


