NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN.

	Although a fortnight has elapsed since the
excursion so skillfully planned for the "old
folks" of this city, was happily consummated,
the subject is still not devoid of interest; for the
event was one long to be remembered.
	It was a beautiful thought suggested to Bro.
C. R. Savage, and first communicated to
brother John W. Young—President of the
Utah Northern and Utah Western Rail Roads.
The latter gentleman immediately acceded to
the proposition of the former, to "give some of
the aged Saints, 'the Lords aristocracy' a ride
on the cars." Accordingly, the famous excur-
sion to Lake Point was arranged, with Bishop
Edward Hunter, George Goddard and Charles
R. Savage as committee.
	One hundred and eighty men and women,
each over sixty, whose average age was seven-
ty-two, were brought together at the depot on
the morning appointed, May fourteenth. And
with these, all comfortably seated in cars for a
ride on the Utah Western Railway, was a suffi-
cient number of blind, lame and halt, together
with nurses and help for some of the infirm
and the very aged, to make up a company of
sixty-four under sixty years of age; in all; two
hundred and forty-four persons;
	Sunday school excursions, school picnics and
young peoples' festivals of various kinds, are
of such frequent occurrence as to excite but or-
dinary interest on general occasions. But a
day devoted to the aged, for their especial
amusement and enjoyment, has something of
originality in it.
	Charles Dicken's said:
		"There is nothing on earth half so holy
		As the heart of an innocent child?"
	But we say, if there is anything on earth 
that can compare with pure and lovely child-
hood, certainly it is ripe, beautiful old age.
The sweetness and freshness of the first guile-
less childhood is only equaled by the sublimity
of the second.


Therefore, to one passing from youth to mid-
dle age, a day thus spent in the society of the
"old folks," is not dissimilar to a day spent with
the children; save that in the former case, the
words spoken, the care bestowed, the assistance
rendered and the sympathies indulged, all
arise from feelings of holy reverence instead of
a reciprocity in innocent delight and merri-
ment.
	The ride on the cars both going and return-
ing, the sail on the lake, the grateful rests and
soul-reviving interviews beneath the roof of
Dr. Clinton's commodious house, were all char-
acterized by a full flow of the serene and holy
influence ever peculiar to old age after well-
spent, useful days of youth, and middle age.
It was indeed a joyous day, a day of feasting,
a day never to be forgotton. Surely the com-
mittee must realize much satisfaction in con-
templating the perfect success with which their
efforts were crowned.


[Column 1]
