WHITHER ARE WE DRIFTING

We live in deeds, not years—in thoughts not breaths—
In feelings, not in figures on a dial;
We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives,
Who thinks most—feels the noblest—acts the best.
	Whither is our course bent on the great
ocean of time, have we some goal in view
which we are concentrating all our forces and
energies to reach, and are we carefully and dili-
gently husbanding all our resources to attain
without danger or detriment to ourselves, this
desirable object? Have we entered upon this
course understandingly, and chosen for our pi-
lot, one who will warn us of any obstruction in
our way; who is aware of all the reefs and
quicksands which might wreck us at any mo-
ment when we were sailing smoothly along on
a calm sea, for the clear placid smiling surface
sometimes covers the most dangerous depths,
and is so inviting to the mariner that all un-
conscious of the hidden rocks or shoals, in a
moment of seeming security the bark goes
down or is dashed to pieces, and often a surge
forms from some scarcely preceptible cause and
foaming and rushing headlong in its course
bears down the frail bark, or even the more
solid structures, and in a moment of time they
are swallowed up in the unfathomable deep.
	Is it not expedient then to be on our guard,
and to thoroughly understand ourselves and
train every faculty we possess in such careful-
ness and exactitude as to be able to compete
with every obstacle in our pathway, and to be
continually guided by the Holy Spirit the Com-
forter which cannot err?
	It is the only safe pilot, the whispering in
our hearts, the true instinct of immortality,
which will guide us safely whatever our cir-
cumstances may be; it is a solace for every
sorrow; a hope in every hour of darkness to
light our souls, a stay and an anchor which
will hold us firmly through the stormiest pas-
sage upon life's sea; if we will listen to the gen-
tle whisperings which it is ever ready to impart
to those who yield themselves wholy to its
heavenly influence. It is only by living
pure and true lives that we can be thus shield-
ed; we must first submit ourselves to the dic-
tates of the Gospel of Jesus, and obey the
principles of the kingdom of God, become like
little children, in humility and meekness, ere
we can partake of the rich blessings which
flow from the fountain of life and intelligence
to all who are prepared to receive them.
	It will not do to drift about carelessly, merely
seeking the gratification of idle wishes, at the
caprice of every momentary whim, floating
down the great stream of time, and regardless
of the dangers which beset us, expect to land
in a safe harbor; without thought, without cal-
culation, without any settled purpose, not hav-
ing qualified ourselves with the requisite cred-
entials. Would any rational being possessed
of sound sense and judgment, expect to go
to a foreign country, among people totally un-
known, without making the most careful ar-
rangements, and being positive they had a
passport which would be undeniable in its ac-
curacy, and would identify them among the
people with whom they expected to associate?
And yet we, many of us endowed with intel-


ligence and possessing almost unlimited advan-
tages for qualifying ourselves for a higher ex-
istence and calling, move on from day to day
scarcely casting a thought beyond the position
we occupy here, satisfied if we obtain some
trifling pleasure, sometimes forgetting our
Heavenly Father, whose hand supplies all our
needs, and without whose aid and assistance
we could not exist for one brief moment.
	Has the great Creator given us such gifts of
mind, such perfect bodies, so capable of action,
so wonderfully formed, to be the sport of acci-
dent, controlled only by circumstances? Are
we not the arbiters of our own fate? Assur-
edly we are individual agents, to do, to be, and
to become, whatever it is possible for us to ac-
complish; if we aim high, and our courage
equals our resolves, we may attain unlimited
excellence. Our Savior whose life is given for
our example; went about doing good; He lived
not to aggrandize himself, not for the happi-
ness of one, but for all the world of mankind;
His actions and words were replete with innate
purity, with the most unlimited charity for the
faults and weaknesses of humanity. He ex-
tended to the poor and the erring the most gen-
uine sympathy; yet he exacted strict obedience
to the laws of heaven. If we would be truly
followers of Jesus let us be watchful of our own
hearts, and seek diligently to become wholly
submissive to the guidance of the Holy Spirit
which He has promised us, and which will
teach us our duty to ourselves, to our children,
to our co-workers: in the great plan of salva-
tion, and above all our duty to Him to whom
we owe all. 						B. B


