DIVERSIONS.

	A doughmestic difficulty—heavy bread.
	The lawyers are coming out with spring suits.
	The latest thing in front door locks—night keys.
	What is everybody doing at the same time?—
growing old.
	A man who had been married twice to ladies
both named Catherine, advised his friends against
taking dupli-dates.
	An exchange says that while many people do
not like the Spring freshets, the bridges are quite
carried away with them.
	"C-c-c-can that p-p-p-parrot talk?" asked a
stuttering man of a German. "Ven he don't talk
so gooter as you, I schop his head off."
	"What a shame that I should be starving!" ex-
claimed a poor corset-maker out of work—"I have
stayed the stomachs of hundreds."
	"A young man charged with being lazy was asked
if he took it from his father, "I think not," was 
the reply. "Father's got all the laziness he ever
had."
	A Kansas gentleman has thoughtfully put his
front gate in the parlor, so that his daughter and
her young man can swing on it without taking cold
during the cold weather.
	Tom Hood speaks of a bird's building its nest
upon a ledge over the door of a doctor's office, as
an attempt to rear its young in the very jaws of
death.
	Apropos of the kissing discussion, here is Oli-
ver Wendell Holmes' definition of a kiss: "The
twenty-seventh letter of the alphabet—the love-la-
bial which it takes two to speak plainly."
	Teacher—"Who was the first man?" Head
scholar—"Washington; he was the first in war, first
in—" Teacher—"No, no; Adam was the first
man." Head scholar—"Oh, if you are talking of 
foreigners, I s'pose he was."
	Said a man to the mayor of London, whom he
met at the State fair, "I have seen beets in Cali-
fornia as big as I am." "I beg your pardon."
said the mayor, "but I think that you deceive
yourself."
	"Now, John; don't you think a women writes
more satisfactory letters than a man?" "Certain-
ly, my dear.  It is far more satisfactory to re-
ceive a letter from a woman than a man."  The
fond wife muses, and concludes that it is her mis-
sion to watch the mail.
	"My dear friend," said a gentleman to a bank-
rupt, the other day, "I am sorry to hear of your
misfortune. "Your family has my warmest sym-
pathies." "O don't trouble yourself about my
family. I looked out for them, you bet! Just save
your sympathies for the families of my creditors!"
	A sudden gust of wind took a parasol from the
hand of its owner, and a lively Irishman, dropping
his hod of bricks, caught the parachute. "Faith,
ma'am," said he, "if you were as strong as you
are handsome, it would not have got away from
you." "Which shall I thank you for first, the
service or the compliment?" asked the lady, smil-
ingly. "Troth, ma'am," said Pat, again touching
the place where once stood the brim of what was
once a beaver, "that look of your beautiful eye
thanked me for both."


NOTHING on earth can smile but a human
being. Gems may flash reflected light, but
what is a diamond flash compared with an
eye-flash and mirth-flash? A face that can-
not smile is like a bud that cannot blossom,
and dries upon the stalk. Laughter is  day,
and sobriety is night, and a smile is the
twilight that hovers gently between both,
and more bewitching than either.


