[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 568 | Poem | In Marshy Places Gladys | Hesser Burnham]
[In Marshy Places Gladys Hesser Burnham]

One day we heard one while down in the park, And Grandpa said, 'Listen! A Melody Lark!' "' I smiled to myself at his childish mistake, As I answered the summons to dig and to rake. Entranced with his music, I worked until dark, To the gay melody of the Melody Lark. ) 568 Family Vacations Can Be Funl (Continued from the July Magazine) Lillian Y. Bradshaw ———— alae oe ys Part II PACKING BAGS Each of us was allowed a small zippered canvas bag in which to carry four weeks' supply of clothes. We had decided that "perma" pressed clothes were the only things to take, clothes we could wash and dry at a laundromat, and which would not need ironing. In addition to our clothing for travel, we prepared a Sunday bag for all. In this, each put a complete Sunday outfit for going to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. Each would be expected to remain in these clothes all day Sunday. The boys wore shoes that could be brushed to look nice for Sunday, and the girls were allowed a second pair of best shoes. This plan helped to keep that extra special feeling for the Sabbath, even while on vacations. OM ae The Peter Whitmer Home (Restored) Near Fayette, Seneca County, New York Before leaving, we called the Church offices to find the ad- ~ dresses of several branches or wards where we might be the four Sundays we would be gone. Perhaps you would be interested in knowing why we all wore Hawaiian shirts that looked alike. One of the biggest reasons was that I could readily keep an eye on all the children. In large crowds this is a must. Also, the look-alike clothing would simplify our staying together on tours, for, without question, we would be allowed to go through as a group. Washing would be simplified, for the shirts could all be put into one batch, saving time and money at the laundromat. Also, for this reason, everyone selected white stockings—boys and girls. All the bags were packed by Thursday, the day before we left.