[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 583 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Of pioneer ''covered-wagon"' heritage, she was graduated from the University of Utah, and became a schoolteacher in Blanding. Civic worker, writer, and active in the Church, she is president of San Juan Stake Relief Society. Her chlidren speak of their home life as ''loving, secure, warm, friendly, and happy." Rhea Coleman Guild, a Latter-day Saint, was selected as New Hampshire Mother of the Year. She was born in Midway, Utah, graduated from Brigham Young University, and met her husband Lawrence W. Guild while both were traveling as members of the Chautauqua lecture bureau. She majored in speech and drama and was associated with her sister Lethe C. Tatge in Chautauqua programs. Her lovely New England home on 'Smiling Hill'' was built in 1793. She has served twice as president of Laconia Branch Relief Society. She has three children and seven grandchildren. Monica Dickens (Mrs. Roy Stratton, Cape Cod, Massachusetts), great-granddaughter of Charles Dickens, renowned English novelist, traveled across the United States on a lecture tour during the spring and summer of 1967. She illuminated certain little known aspects of the early life of her illustrious ancestor and the personal tragedy of his later years. Mrs. Stratton is the wife of a Commander in the United States Navy, and the couple have two children. Nancy E. Gwinn, of Sheridan, Wyoming, a senior English major at the University of Wyoming, has been selected for a signal honor. Beginning in September, she will receive a Cultural Exchange scholarship, including living expenses, and other funds, for a year's study at Oxford University, England. She will specialize in seventeenth century literature and music. Miss Gwinn is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi, and is listed in the United States Students' Who's Who. This outstanding honor is typical of awards being granted to outstanding students in other fields, also, for exchange education. Leslie Sheryl Roberts, of the Ottawa Second Branch of the Canadian Mission, will represent the Ottawa nurses at "Expo 67" in Montreal during the summer. She is district MIA music director, Sunday School chorister, and assistant branch MIA dance director.