[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 609 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities British South Mission, Thames Valley District Bazaar, Aylesbury November 5, 1966 Virginia Archer, former Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, (President and Sister Archer are standing in center) reports: "The town of Aylesbury is in the very center of the County of Buckinghamshire, of which it is the county town. Each year the Relief Societies of the Thames Valley District hold an annual Christmas bazaar together. In 1966 it was suggested at the leadership meeting, held in March, that the bazaar should be held at Aylesbury. The next few months became very busy arranging for the various attractions. Each Relief Society had its own stall. The stall had a variety of goods, all beautifully made and the choice of work on sale ranged from a Cindy Doll to a full-size quilt. There was evidence of many hours spent sewing, knitting, and baking. In the center of the hall, along with the pictorial screens (depicting scenes in the history of the Church), the missionaries had set up a stall well-stocked with pamphlets and Books of Mormon. Refreshments were served by the district Relief Society presidency." Joan Spratley Child is the new supervisor of the British South Mission. 

609 August 1967

 Southwest British Mission, Plymouth District Relief Society Displays First Quilt December 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Mildred Spencer, wife of the Building Supervisor; Helen Grant Barton, former Supervisor, Southwest British Mission Relief Society. Back row, standing, beginning at the right: Jean Wise, First Counselor; Pearl White, President; Jean Hodgson, Second Counselor. Sister Barton reports: "December 18, 1966 marked the date of our. First District Conference held in the new chapel in Plymouth. President James A. Cullimore had just officially opened it a few days before. This also marked the. Occasion of the first quilt to be made by the Relief Society in the Plymouth. District. Sister Mildred Spencer, who had never quilted before, taught the sisters how to quilt, and the finished product is shown in the picture. The sisters enjoyed the new challenge of making the quilt and hope to make many more. Sister Barton bought the quilt and is taking it around the mission to show the other Relief Societies." Marie Flachman Bradshaw is the new supervisor of the Southwest British Mission. Brigham Young University First Stake (Provo, Utah) Presents Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, February 19, 1967 Sixth from the left, second row: Joyce Lunceford, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth, tenth, and eleventh, fifth row: Beverly Polson, spiritual living class leader; Linda Moody, Counselor; Lynette Elder, organist; at the left, third row:, Sherry Weyland, chorister. Della C. Crockett, President, Brigham Young University First Stake, reports: "Bighty-three sisters from Brigham You