[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 561 | Article | Cliff Dwelling | Peggy Tangren]
8 Cliff Dwelling Peggy Tangren In this ancient house I hear Shelling of corn dried on the ear And its crunching on a grinding stone. I am not alone, Voices are in every room. I hear a loom, A baby cry, a dog baying at the sky. From far below, Down in fields where farmers sow, A cloud is seen, and a water call Echoes from a sandstone wall Where bins are built for keeping grain Away from field mice and the rain. Mothers sew as they have always sewn, Though the thread be thong and the needle bone. The sun is cool, the shadows long On a homing trail, and the fathers' song Wings to the ledge, and on the edge Children lean to watch them come Up the ladders. Kneeling, some Blow the smoldering charcoal hot Under an earthen cooking pot. Ancient, empty, silent, and yet The walls of a home cannot forget. The Cover: Pine-Fringed Lake at Naples, Maine Transparency by Eric M. Sanford Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mesa Verde, Near Cortez, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far In the March 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley enumerated four challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity to help us appreciate our opportunities. For the Relief Society Anniversary observance we used these challenges on beehives at each end of the serving table and the lapel pins we made for the sisters. Whenever it is my privilege to help in Relief Society activities, my Magazine affords great pleasure, while aiding me with innumerable suggestions and materials for inspiration. Linda Chambers Houston, Texas Please thank Mary Scopes for her lovely art work for my story "Automation," in the May issue of the Magazine. There are so many outstanding features in that issue that I am happy to be a part of it. I enjoyed the editorial "Timeless Words" by Vesta P. Crawford. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho I have just finished reading "These Things Endure," by Alice Colton Smith (May 1967). It is beautifully written, encouraging, and inspiring. Such an article has much to offer to the women of the Church, wherever they may be. Grace F. Arrington Pacific Palisades, California The cover of the April Magazine is the epitome of spring. It makes my heart glad just to look at it. I loved the story by Sylvia Probst Young, "And It Shall Be Given You." It illustrates so clearly how we are often blind to our own weaknesses, and how prayer can help us find the strength to come to grips with them. Thank you for publishing stories such as this which give insight into problems we all have to face. Arlene Larsen Bascom Orem, Utah The Magazine has brought me closer to our Heavenly Father and his purposes. I am thankful for Relief Society and other Church organizations that help us to live full lives. I especially enjoyed the poem "Inviolate," by Lael W. Hill (April frontispiece), the article "Lake Country, England," (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and "The Patient Soul" (by Rose Openshaw). Each Magazine seems better than the last, and they are all effective missionary tools. Ruth E. Yashko Cocoa, Florida I have tried many of the recipes in the Magazine, and have found the one for "Dilly Bread" (June 1966) to be exceptionally good. I know the lesson materials are divinely inspired, and the talents expressed in creative prose and poetry are rewarding to the many readers. I am particularly fond of the work of Eva Willes Wangsgaard; for she ably describes in many ways my feelings towards life and about life and living "Over night's purple hill, tomorrows come to offer faith, new hope, another chance." Mary W. Stauffer Nashville, Tennessee Editorial Note: Sister Wangsgaard passed away in April 1967, closing a lifetime of family devotion, loving service to neighbors and friends, and lasting literary achievement. I have been a member of The Church for just over a year, and find great joy in attending Relief Society, and in reading the beautifully illustrated Magazine which I receive monthly. I am secretary-treasurer in our ward Relief Society. Iris H. Cooper Hatfield, Herts., England The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society KEKE iain KEK eee Spopopee [Address Delivered in the Tabernacle at Welfare Meeting, April 7, 1967] @ My dear brothers and sisters: the Brethren have kindly invited me to speak on the role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program as viewed by the General Presidency of Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph Smith, who, through inspiration of the Lord, established the Society, made clear that one of its basic purposes was "'to relieve the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes." He admonished the sisters that they were "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Experience has taught us the close correlation between sound practices in relieving the poor and the saving of souls. The Prophet further said: "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence." And, indeed, it is within the nature of womankind to give loveinspired, benevolent service. For one and one quarter centuries the sisters of Relief Society have walked along the path laid out by the Prophet Joseph Smith and redefined by the Presidents of the Church who have succeeded him. 564 Their tender, compassionate services to those in distress have been manifold. Relief Society has adopted the motto: 'Charity never faileth." The meaning which we attach to the word "charity," however, is not that which the world has come to accept. To us charity is the expression of unselfish love which builds up and strengthens not only the physical, but the spiritual in our people, and helps the individual and the family to realize their full potentials. The term "welfare" also has special meaning for us, differing from the connotation presently attached to it by the world. We accept the true meaning of the word "welfare" as a state of faring or doing well. It is a condition of health, prosperity, happiness; a condition of well-being achieved through living according to the teachings of the Church. With reference to this, we are reminded of the words of King Benjamin: And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his commandments ye shouid prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he The