RINGHAM, NEAR LYNN.

(From the World.)

	Sandringham is no stately palace, where
comfort is a secondary consideration to
splendor, where sumptuous suites of apart-
ments bear the chilling impress of being
uninhabited and uninhabitable; but a veri-
table English home, designed not for show,
but to be lived in—every detail eloquent of
unostentatious taste and of refined domes-
ticity. The home-savor of Sandringham
begins from the doorstep, for there is no
formal entrance-hall. The vestibule is sim-
ply a part and portion of the great saloon
which may be called the family parlor of
the house. From the saloon opens the busi-
ness room, where the Prince transacts his
correspondence, gives interviews to other
than social visitors, sees his tenants on
questions of improvements, and gives his
personal instructions to land-steward, gar-
dener and head-keeper. On the right of the
vestibule, as one enters the house, lies the
library; a pleasant room in blue and light
oak, whose shelves are filled with books
belonging almost exclusively to the depart-
ments of history and travels. A whole
compartment is devoted to works on the
Crimean War, another to books—many of
which are hard reading enough—on India,
both British and native. Through the
equerry's room, the next of the suite, is
reached the second library, which might
appropriately bear the name of the "Serapis
Room," for it is full of the belongings of
his Royal Highness during his voyagings
in the big troopship. This room opens into
the vestibule of the garden entrance, which,
by reason of its proximity to the drawing-
room, is always used on ball nights. From
the main corridor stretching to the great
staircase there open on the right the princi-
pal reception rooms; but before these are
reached there is passed the Prince's private
morning-room, a family room pure and sim-
ple. From this room a door opens into the
ante-room of the great drawing-room; a 
pretty little apartment in French grey.
The principal drawing-room, like all the
rooms on this side of the house, looks out
into the park across the flower beds, water,
and rockery, to where the antlered red
deer are browsing in the beech glades. It
is a room of fine proportions, of whose walls
the prevalent tint is a pale salmon color;
and its fixed decorations are studiously sim-
ple, consisting merely of a few mirrors
placed panelwise, some floral mouldings, a
painting ceiling, and a single group of statu-
ary. The sweet scent of spring-violets
nestling among moss perfumes the air, and 
there are flowers everywhere; indeed, the
whole house is a floral bower, for the Prin-
cess is passionately fond of flowers, and lit-
erally lives among them. A door-window
of the drawing-room "gives" on a small
domed conservatory projecting from the
garden front of the house. "En suite"with the drawing-room is the dining room,

[Column 2]

a warm tinted, genial looking room, sug
gestive of comfort in its every item. From
the dining room the way leads through a
"corridor of weapons," where the "white
arms" of all ages are arranged in glass-
fronted cabinets on the walls, to the billiard-
room. The annexed smoking-room is the
ante-chamber to the long vista of the bowl-
ing-alley, lighted both from sides and roof,
with raised seats at the upper end, whence
ladies may look down on the tournament of
their squires. During the shooting-season
the routine of Sandringham life has for va-
riety little other than the change of the
scene of the sport. The start is at half past
ten; and if there is any distance to be trav-
ersed, the gunners travel to the scene of
their sport in the char-a-bane and waggonette.
The Sandringham corps of beaters is forty
strong, each member wearing a Norfolk
smock-frock of brown fustian, with a num-
ber on a red badge. Luncheon is at two,
served in a marquee in some convenient
spot, and at this meal the Princess joins the
gentlement, with the ladies who are her
guests. From six to half-past seven the
Prince addresses himself to correspondence
and business; but indeed there is hardly an
hour of the day which his Royal Highness
devotes wholly to pleasure, for his land-
steward generally accompanies him in
shooting excursions, at hand to note sugges-
tions as to improvements which may occur
to the Prince as he tramps over the estate.
It is reputed of the Prince in Norfolk that
no landlord in the county is better acquaint-
ed with the details of his property, and
with a greater zeal for its improvement.
The Sunday is the most characteristic day
of the week at Sandringham. The Princess
drives to Mr. Onslow's little church across
the park; the Prince with his male guests
walks, and after service walks back through
the grounds, intent on pointing out his im-
provements. After luncheon the whole
house-party walk out past the "bachelor's"
cottage to the kennels. A flock of foreign
goats immediately beset the Princess, wise
in their generation and in the full expect-
ancy of tit-bits. There is a leisurely stroll
through the pheasantry and along the
snugly-sheltered cages in which are housed
the Nepaulese birds, which were one of Sir
Jung Bahadoor's gifts. The bear-pit looked
down into, and the bears coaxed to climb
the pole; the dogs claim attention. The
monkey-house cannot be passed over; and
then the party, with multitudinons dogs as
"eclaireurs," stroll away to the gardens.
There is no lack of occupation for days not
devoted to sport. The laboring folk in
Sandringham parish having been all com-
fortably housed in model cottages, the refor-
mation of the cottage architecture and ac-
commodation of the parish at Wolferton—
an outlying portion of the estate—is now
steadily being proceeded with, under the
personal supervision of the Princess her-
self, who sets her face determinedly against
defective and unpicturesque homes for her
laboring people. At a farm in his own
hands in Wolferton parish the Prince has
some fine pedrigree short-horn stock, and is
gradually rearing a herd whose influence
must benefit his neighbors, without the ex-
penditure of sensational prices for the fancy
of a particular strain.


MRS. Gov. Van Zandt, of Rhode Island,
is a daughter of the late Albert G. Green,
who wrote that excessively picturesque
chant, "Old Grimes is Dead." Mrs. Van
Zandt is known for her zeal in charitable
projects.


