		BYRON MEMORIALS.

	There has been a private view of the
models sent in for the statue of Lord Byron
to be erected in the Green Park, and of
other Byroniana, which have been brought
together at the Albert Hall, Knightsbridge.
The various articles exhibited—including
39 designs for a memorial statue—were
nearly 100 in all, through grouped in the
catalogue in 71 lots. Of the statues there
is really little or nothing to be said, except
that while all came up to a certain level,
none rise in our estimation, at least, to the
highest order of merit; the best being No.
1, which represents the poet in an attitude
of contemplation, and No. 6, which also
gives us Lord Byron seated, as he loved to
sit, upon the rocks watching the play of
the sunlight on the waves. This statue,
which is by Mr. Richard Belt, is under-
stood to have been selected for acceptance
by the committee. The rest of the models
for the most part represent the poet either

[Column 2]
in a flowing cloak like a Roman toga, or in
the boating dress so familiar to us by the
engraver's art. Few of them are remark-
able for originality or for ideal beauty,
though they give us every variety of pos-
ture—meditative, contemplative, active,
and defiant, and (in one case) in an "action
of inspiration." Far more interesting were
the "Byroniana" exhibited in the west
room, about 40 in all. There were busts,
portraits, miniatures, and medallions of
Lord Byron at various periods of life—as a
child, at school, at college, and as a full-
grown man, including the well-known por-
trait of him by Philips, from Newstead
Abbey, and another by the same artist from
Stoneleigh; a water color drawing of his
lordship in his robes as a nobleman at Cam-
bridge, by Gilchrist; and another anony-
mous portrait of him in early life, the his-
tory and painter of which are both un-
known. There were autograph letters from
the poet to his friends, Mr. Hodgson, Dr.
Bowring, and Sir John Hobhouse; the
original draught of the fourth canto of
"Childe Harold;" first editions and pre-
sentation copies of several of his poems, in
many cases inscribed in his own hand;
Stothard's medal of Lord Byron; the cav-
alry sword presented by Byron to his friend
Trelawny during their voyage to Greece,
with the words, "There, take it and use it,
either like Don Juan or like Childe Har-
old." In another case were the silver
watch which Byron wore as a boy at Har-
row; the china teacups and saucers that
stood on his mantle shelf at Cambridge; the
gold locket and gold pin which he usually
wore; the crucifix found in his room after
his death at Missolonghi; his snuffbox; his
seal, with crest and arms; the helmet and
the "boarding cap" which he wore daily
in Greece; a silver teapot purchased at the
sale of his effects; and the boxing gloves
used by him in his "sparring" encounters
with Jackson, the pugilist. In another
case were other swords, daggers, and pipes,
all connected in some way with Lord Byron
as their owner or donor; an autograph of
the poet's earliest love, Mary Ann Cha-
worth; the collar of Boatswain, Lord By-
ron's favorite dog and "only friend," who
lies buried at Newstead; and last but not
least in point of interest, his pocket New
Testament, of which the catalogue tells us
that it was presented by his wife to Lord
Byron, who afterwards gave it to Lady
Caroline Lamb. It would seem to have
subsequently belonged to another celebrity,
for on its title page is written "Sidney Mor-
gan, 1851." We ought also to mention the
large oil painting of Newstead Abbey, exe-
cuted by G. Varley in 1809 at the request
of Lord Byron. But perhaps the most in-
teresting of all the memorials is that num-
bered 54 in the catalogue, a document
drawn up by Lord Byron in his own hand-
writing in August, 1817, relating to his
separation from Lady Byron, in which he
throws the blame of that transaction on the
lady's advisors, and offers to submit the
matters in dispute to some third party for
adjudication. The Exhibition is now open
to the public at the Albert Hall.


LOVE never tires; the more we love the
more we have of solid satisfaction. Every
new soul we come in contact with and learn
to esteem fills us with new light and life. 
Those who love others are themselves full
of sunshine, and the day marches triumph-
antly on with them from rosy morn to
dewy eve and silent night.


