NOTES AND NEWS.

	A CORRESPONDENT in a private letter
writing from Italy, says that this autumn
the members of the Italian Parliament will
discuss the question of conceding munici-
pal Suffrage to women.—Ex.

	MRS. E. Boynton Herbert, President of
the Illinois State Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation proposes a Woman's Congress for the
State, and appoints meetings in Chicago for
the 4th and 5th of October next. These
Suffrage Associations are doing a good work
and the combined force of such practical
efforts cannot fail but bring about in good
time the desired result of universal suffrage.
A vast amount of courage and continuity is
necessary certainly, but with such zealous
and devoted workers all obstacles must at
length be overcome.

	THE EMPLOYMENT of women in the tel-
egraph department has been a complete
success in England. Over eleven thousand
are employed in London, and there has
been but one dismissed in four years. Their
hours are from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M., each being
on duty eight consecutive hours out of
these twelve. In the establishment there
is a kitchen and dining-rooms, and the
girls have a thoroughly good dinner for
twenty cents. The pay begins at two dol-
lars a week, which is raised to three dollars
when the girl is competent. Girls may en-
ter from 14 to 18. The average pay re-
ceived is four dollars and a half a week, and
the highest is seven dollars and a half a
week.—Woman's Journal.

	VICTOR HUGO on the Woman Question
reasons in this wise, and perhaps the word of
a man of not like him may have some influ-
ence with society at large: "Courage, alas
he must have who will be just towards the
weaker. The weaker is Woman. Our ill-
balanced society seems as if it would take
from her all that Nature has endowed her
with. In our codes there is something to
recast. It is what I call the Woman Law.
Man has his law; he has made it for him-
self. Woman has only the law of man.
Woman is civilly a minor and morally a
slave. Her education is imbued with this
two-fold character of inferiority. Hence
many sufferings are hers which man must
also justly share. There must be reform,
and it will be for the benefit of civilization,
truth and light."

