BY MRS. E. J. HARDING.

	Oh, Alice, dear girl, say it not! Say not
that they are homely, but rather how beau-
tiful in their helplessness. They once were
like you—young, loving, hopeful; but time
and sorrow have left their sure, sad trace.
	The deeply furrowed brow, the silvered
hair, and the stooped form, all speak to us
of how much they have suffered, have en-
dured through these long, weary years of
life's struggle. Theirs has been a rough
sea; rude breakers have assailed them,
wave after wave of sorrow and care have
swept over them, and they have at times
almost stranded, and but for the lingering
beam of hope sent by Him who rules the
tempest and the wave, they must have long
since sank to rise no more.
	Weep on, dear Alice, I divine your feel-
ings; and how refreshing the sight of your
pearly tears! but this their hour is not yours.
May the chilling blast never reach you, and
time, the destroyer, deal with you gently.
	Look upon them again. See their coun-
tenances wear a calm, patient, and resigned
expression. They have heard the blessed
promise: "There is rest for the weary!"
	Oh! Alice, assist the tottering feet of the
aged, soothe them by the fondest affection,
and let them not be the object of thy con-
tempt. They are as helpless as children.
Their feeble step is trembling on the brink
of the grave, but their hopes may be firmly
placed on the better shore which lies be-
yond. Their eyes are dim with suffering
and tears, but their spiritual vision may be
contemplating the gradual unfolding of the
gates of rest.
	Remember, my dear Alice, that when
the springtime of life is past, it returns no
more. As the cold, dark winter of age
comes on, this world affords but the frigid
prospect of the interminable night of death.
And how short is the season of youthful
bloom; how soon the flush of beauty fades,
and how transient the smiles of lovely
flowers. It is thus with human life. Time
scathes its loveliest prospect, and draws
over its blooming gardens the faded hue of
decaying nature, or the pall of death. But
we are saved the despair to which these
gloomy reflections would lead us, by the
prospect of having vernal eternal bowers.
Yes, we are permitted to hope that the
springtime of heaven will give eternal
youth to our decaying frames, and light up
our spirits with the exhilarating joys of
holy songs.
	I have often thought how beautiful was
infancy; in its innocent purity, and youth
with the beautiful glow of health upon the
cheek, the warm, glowing heart full of joy-
ful anticipation; of middle age, full of in-
creasing interest, with a healthful, free, ex-
panding mind, a heart filled with generous


impulses; but what is more lovely, or to be
more reverenced, than extreme age? And,
my dear Alice, I would have thee this re-
member, to ever be kind to the aged; to
find it a dear pleasure to soothe their rug-
ged pathway, to light them by cheerful and
hopeful words to a joyous life in store, and
by every kind attention cause them to feel
that they have not lived in vain, but that
their unremitting care and wise teachings
are remembered, and lovingly treasured.
	Ogden, Aug. 23, 1877.


[Column 1]

