HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE SHALL publish in our next issue, Oct. 1st,
the Epistle of the Twelve Apostles and Coun-
selors to the Courch of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. This document is of special
importance, and one which all the Saints will
wish to preserve for future perusal. 

	WE LEARN through the "Deseret News" that
J. W. Carpenter proposes publishing a semi-
monthly paper at St. George, to be called the
"St. George Union," with the motto United
we stand, divided we fall; price $1.00 per year.
Success to all enterprises for the promotion and
advancement of the best interests of the Saints.

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the pleasure of one or
two calls from Mrs. John Wyckliffe Ricks, a
literary lady of whom we had previously heard
concerning her ability as a writer and speaker.
Mrs. Ricks also introduced her husband. This
lady is the author of some books both in prose
and poetry. One, a poem entitled "Welded
Links," we have heard highly spoken of by
those who have read it. Mrs. Ricks expressed
herself as favorably impressed with Salt Lake
City and its people. She is an animated and
eloquent conversationist.

	WE HAVE received from T. McIntyre of the
Pioneer Art Gallery a cabinet sized picture of
President Brigham Young in a handsome oval
frame, for which we return many thanks. The
picture is very natural, representing the Presi-
dent seated in his usual graceful and easy man-
ner. We also return our thanks to Daynes &
Clark for two copies handed us of "Brigham
Young's Funeral March," composed by Joseph
J. Daynes, with Prest. Young's picture on the
first page and inseribed "In Memory of His Ex-
cellency Brigham Young, Ex-Governor of Utah
Territory, and late President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who died
Aug. 29, 1877."

	WE ARE truly pleased to have among our
exchanges "The Ballot Box," published in
Toledo, Ohio, in the advocacy of equal rights,
irrespective of sex, by the "Toledo Suffrage
Association." The "Ballot Box" is most ably
edited by Sarah R. L. Williams, and contains
letters from the different States and Territories,
representing the advancement of the work in


the vicinity, and articles on all subjects bear-
ing upon Woman's Cause, her elevation and
her progression towards equal rights. This
paper bears strong testimony how women are
toiling with the voice and with the pen in the
great vineyard of work, unselfishly and un-
flinchingly for a higher standard to which to
lift man and womankind.
	MRS. F. C. GRISWOLD of Minneapolis, Minn.,
called on us to make some inquiries concerning
our religious faith and practises. Mrs. Griswold
had heard Ann Eliza lecture, and not being fa-
vorably impressed, determined to ascertain the
truth for herself regarding some of Ann Eliza's
statements. Mrs. Griswold is a lady of superior
cultivation and attainments, a writer, also
something of an artist and musician. She was
enthusiastic in her appreciation of the scenery
in and about Salt Lake City, and remarked that
these mountains reminded her continually of
the Bible phrase "The everlasting hills." Mrs.
Griswold is an earnest worker in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage. She is deeply interested in
the redemption of fallen women, believing they
are much sinned against, as well as deeply
wronged by the customs and usages of society
and man-made laws. She is one of the efficient
supporters of the "Bethany House" in Minne-
apolis; the Societies are called "Erring Wo-
man's Societies." Great credit is certainly due
to these large-hearted women who are making
such noble exertions in face of frowns and op-
position to bring about an order of things that
will give woman the same chance to retrace a
downward course as her brother man.
	SILK.—The Deseret Silk. Association met at
Fireman's Hall, Friday, Sept. 7th, Mrs. Zina
D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young stated that the Society was in
a prosperous condition, having twenty-six
pounds, three ounces of reeled silk ready to
be worked up as soon as we could get the ma-
chinery, which she thought would not be long.
We could thus keep labor and capital in our
own community, and be the means of finding
employment for the rising generation, and for
many that are coming to the valleys every
year. She spoke of the interest taken by
our late beloved President in this enter-
prise. The examples he had set and the
counsels he had given ought to stimulate the
Saints to more diligence to make this one of
the best branches of home industry. We had
the requisite climate and what we needed now
was the people to plant out trees and raise the
cocoons, and ere long we would be able to sup-
ply the home demand with sewing silk of all
kinds.
	Mr <i opu(r,prp?ppctq;.for="" gettingvmachinery="" so.wpood-="" ;i="" i="" d="" l-z.rur:="" '.'="" ’="" :="" okffomrs-ianrjettd="" cutamingk="" said="" shehad="" good!="" huuccebs,="" this="" .yehf;="" had="" raised="" some="" very="" fine="" l-fitcocdons="" anjlflve="" gnd'a="" halfouncesofeggs.="" ;="" -u'i="" ,mrs,'iltlfcyhl':young="" 'of="" st.="" georgej="" she="" ldreltflf’de'ep="">Paul A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-
terested in the raising and manufacture of silk.
He thought we ought to be a little more ener-
getic. Our prospects for getting machinery
were good.
	Mrs. Annette Cummings said she had good
success this year; had raised some very fine
cocoons and five and a half ounces of eggs.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young of St. George, said she
felt a deep interest in this branch of industry.
There had been silk raised, reeled, and manu-
factured into various articles of wearing ap-
parel in that section of the country.  She in-
tended using all her influence towards this en-
terprize.
	Mrs. Schinetter said she had raised thirty
pounds of cocoons and eight ounces of eggs,
and felt greatly encouraged with her success.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. Margaret
P. Young, Miss Mary A. Rockwood, Mrs. As-
per and others. Meeting adjourned until the
first Friday in October, at 3 p. m.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


