JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	I hoped to be able to send you a descrip-
tion of the deer hunt I've been dreaming
about since I left home; but as Rob is the
only one who has seen a deer, my descrip-
tion will be of another character. All the
boys have left me to watch the camp, while
they pay a visit to the cave, and as I have
had that pleasure, I will endeavor to tell
you what they may expect to see. In the
distance the road encircling the mound
which marks the situation of the cave,
seems to be formed of a crayon white dust;
but soon the hard rattle of the wheels, and
a closer inspection show it to be composed
of a substance equal in color and brittleness
to "adamantine marble" on which the visi-
tor rides with an ease that is only excelled
by the R. R. carriage, in its turn equaled
by the pleasing shade and luscious fragrance
which come from the trees bordering the
road-side. Ease and agreeableness are not
its only exterior possessions. From the
simplicity of the springs to the mysteries
of petrifaction the curiosity is excited.
You can imagine the wagon going round
the sloping side of the semicircle, and the

[Column 2]

boys, lost in observation, unconscious of
having lost the shade. Here the mound is
covered with a thin layer of water, so clear
as to be distinguishable only by the splash-
ing of the horses' feet. On the upper side
of the road an occasional flower has formed
a barrier to the little sediments which it
has increased in size until a uniform ridge,
an inch in height, the entire length of the
semicircle is formed. Over this there is a
curious compound of water which has
caused the petrifaction of flower and sedi-
ment, and flows in a small ripple; then pass-
es over the road with a clearness and even-
ness that characterizes the surface of a
looking glass. A few yards farther up is
another ridge, increasing in size propor-
tionally with the incline of the mound;-
farther up is another, and still another, each
increasing in size as it advances until at
once the curious eye feasts on the delicate
ripple and the massive waterfall. The top
ridge forms the summit of the mound and
roof of the cave. Here, although the eye
of the observer is presented to an entirely
different view, his curiosity is none the less
excited. Each ridge seems to form a for-
tification that would resist the power of
Caesar and frustrate the designs of Archi-
medes; and all taken together to afford a
safe retreat to Captain Jack against the
Uuited States' entire army. And all seems
once to have been a green and luxuriant
forest, changed by petrifaction in a massive
rocky mound. Perhaps I am wrong, for I
have not heard the statements of philoso-
phy on these curiosities, I can give none
other opinion but my own. From between
the ridges, for your inspection, I have been
pleased to gather specimens of pieces of
petrified branches, leaves and stems, and
which are so perfect in preservation, and
likeness to nature, that you will not think
my opinion so great an absurdity, that the
boys are now on top of a petrified forest.
Please have the patience to follow the boys
into the cave. "Snakes in your boots," is
the feeling which possesses one as he
crawls down the dark and gloomy hole, and
dreadful it feels as he reaches the bottom,
about 20 ft., but when the candles are lit,
the gloom and darkness disappear and in-
stead of a feeling of dread, one of sublim-
ity and awe possess a person as he looks
upon curiosities not surpassed in the stat-
uary department of the Zoological Gardens.
Of course I exaggerate in my comparisons,
"kuz" its natural; but really the interior of
the cave is grand. It is rectangular in form,
with no sharp pointed rocks, nor serpentine
cracks to fill the observer with fear, but all
is as regular as though it had been con-
trived by the hand of art. Inside the for-
mation corresponds with the out. On the
ends of small hanging branches at the top
of the cave, drops of water seem to have
accumulated and all petrified, from an oval
shaped range of rock along the entire
length of the roof; directly below the first,
is another layer which is larger. Between
the layers, on the points of what appears to
be minute branches pointing out in every
direction, little round drops have been
formed. In the crevices between which
can be seen an original whiteness, contrast-
ing with the smoky walls. These ranges
extending from one end of the cave to the
other and spangled between as it were with
"dew drops" vary in size from a few grains
to stones weighing tons. An occasional
crack in the ceiling lets in lights which
coming in contact with the dimly illumi-
nated darkness produces a light of calcium
which tints the pure white rock, with a
pink so delicate, as to add beauty two-fold
to the scene. It was in the glare of one of

[Column 3]

these lights that I was reminded forcibly of
Chief Vanderdecau, with his spectre ship-
mates drinking healths. We were all
standing under one of those calcium glares,
one of us pouring a libation (of Soda) an-
other with satisfaction drinking, another
anxiously holding his cup, and the rest of
us expectantly awaiting turn.  The scene
was so dismal, the attitude so natural, the
situation so appropriate, all so ghostlike,
the entire tableau so perfect that it could
not be surpassed by Mr. Ottinger on the
Salt Lake Stage.
	Yours Truly,
		JOE.


