ESSAY ON SELF-GOVERNMENT.

	I think we as saints ought to try to gov-
ern and control ourselves and all our evil
propensities, because if we cannot control
ourselves we cannot control those who are
placed in our care; I have myself tried to
do so, and I have gained considerable, and
intend to continue and watch myself in
everything. We ought also to be united in
all things. Jesus has said "If ye are not
one ye are not mine." Although we may
consider ourselves true Latter-day Saints, if
we are not united in doing that which we
are taught by those holding the Priesthood,
we cannot claim to be one. We profess to
be one in faith, one in baptism, then in
what are we not one? In wordly matters.
Have we anything that the Lord has not
given unto us? From what other source did
we receive the blessings that we daily en-
joy? We should be truly thankful to Him
for them. If we were united as we ought
to be, we would have more power to do
good, for where there is union there is
strength. He can at any moment take from
us all we possess, still he allows us to live
on, in obedience or disobedience, which ever
path we choose. Will He always be merci-
ful? He has said that the wicked should
be swept from the earth, if they do not re-
pent and serve Him. He has said also that
the kingdom shall not be given to another
people, but a few will stand firm and true
to the covenants they have made with God
and each other, and will assist in the re-
demption of Zion; but we will only do it
by being willing to make every sacrifice
that is necessary for the accomplishment of
that end. We may have to do many things
that are not pleasant, we must not say we
cannot; we must say that we will serve
God come what may, and earn the reward
in store for the faithful; true saints must
embrace every principle pertaining to sal-
vation advanced by the servants of God,
and try to live in accordance with the
same. There is nothing too hard for us to
do in order that we may obtain our exalta-
tion; God requires nothing of His children
that they are not able to perform, but we
must be determined, and pray for strength
and it will be given us. Let us be obedient
to those who are placed over us, and the
Lord will bless us; and especially let us
carry out the wishes of the President of
our Society, and do all we can to encourage
her, and sustain her by our faith and
prayers.
	Sisters, let us then be united, for in unity
is strength; let us sustain each other and
devote our time to the building up of the
kingdom of God, so that we may have His
Spirit at all times is my earnest prayer.
