BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	The funeral services of the late lamented
President Brigham Young were held on Sun-
day Sept. 2d, in the New Tabernacle in this
city. The remains of the deceased were re-
moved to the Tabernacle on Saturday Sept. 1,
where they lay in state in order that the peo-
ple might have the privilege of taking a last
farewell of their beloved leader, prophet and
friend.
	It has been estimated that during the time
the body lay in state in the Tabernacle 25,000
persons availed themselves of the privilege of
looking for the last time upon their dearly be-
loved brother and president. During the night
the Tabernacle was lit with lamps and torches,
and the effect of the drapings of this large and
lofty building, the vases of flowers, the mag-
nificient organ draped also with black, was
sublimely grand and impressive by artificial
light. The Sabbath morning which ushered
in the day of the burial was serenely beauti-
ful, calm and peaceful, and a holy feeling of
resignation crept over the soul and soothed the
sorrow of all who yielded to the sacred influ-
ence. The coffin was removed from the me-
talic covering in which it had been placed to
preserve the body from the air, also the drap-
ery on the lid which was fastened down on
the coffin, was placed a large and elegant
wreath and cross, and at the foot a harp as an
emblem of the Harp of Zion, all composed of
the rarest and choicest delicate white flowers,
most artistically arranged, with a few rich
green leaves and ferns. It is estimated that 
18,000 persons were seated in the Tabernacle.
During the morning the music from the organ
and orchestra added greatly to the solemnity
of the occasion; the musicians rendered in the
most perfectly appropriate manner "The Dead
March of Saul," "Brigham Young's Funeral
March" composed expressly for the occasion
by Jos. J. Daynes for the organ. Wilson's Fu-
neral March," organ "Mendelssohn's Funeral
March," organ and orchestra. The President's
seat was occupied by his counselors. Ten of
the Apostles were present in their accustomed
seats, the patriarch of the church, First presi-
dents of Seventies, the Presidency of the 
stake, the Presiding Bishop and his counselors,
were all in their respective seats according to
their order. The Bishops of the different
wards with their counselors were seated on the
platform north of the stand, the family and
friends of the deceased in front of the stand;
the south center seats east of the family were
filled by the Seventies; the north centre, cor-
responding, by the High Priests. The rest of
the building was entirely filled even the aisles
and doorways.
	Precisely at 12, m. the congregation was

[Column 2]

called to order and the ceremonies were con-
ducted by Elder George Q. Cannon by request
of the family. The choir of over two hundred
voices sung "Hark from afar a funeral knell."
Elder F. D. Richards made the opening pray-
er (which we have published in full on anoth-
er page.)
	The choir then sang "Thou dost not weep to
weep alone."
	President D. H. Wells was the first speaker
on the occasion, followed by Elder Wilford
Woodruff and Elder Erastus Snow, each of
them seemingly full of the Holy Spirit, which 
ever brings consolation in the midst of the 
deepest sorrow. Elder George Q. Cannon then
read the following:
	Nearly four years ago President Young, in
company with a number of other Elders, wrote
his instructions which he and they desired to
have left on record concerning their funerals.
It was his written request that his instructions
upon this subject be read at his funeral. They
are as follows;
	"I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services
to be conducted in the following manner:
	When I breathe my last I wish my friends
to put my body in as clean and wholesome
state as can conveniently be done and preserve
the same for one, two, three or four days or as
long as my body can be preserved in a good
condition. I want my coffin made of plump
one and one fourth inch redwood boards, not
scrimped in length, but two inches longer than
I would measure, and from two to three inches
wider than is commonly made for a person my
breadth and size and deep enough to place me
on a little comfortable cotton bed with a good,
suitable pillow for size and quality; my body
dressed in my Temple clothing and laid nicely
into my coffin, and the coffin to have the ap-
pearance that if I wanted to turn a little to 
the right or to the left I should have plenty of
room to do so; the lid can be made crowning.
	At my interment I wish all my family pres-
ent that can be conveniently, and the male
members wear no crape on their hats or their
coats: the females to buy no black bonnets,
nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they
have them they are at liberty to wear them.
The services may be permitted as singing and
a prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish
to say a few words, and really desire, do so;
and when they have closed their services, take
my remains on a bier and repair to the little
burying ground which I have reserved on my
lot east of the White House on the hill, and
in the southeast corner of this lot have a vault
built of mason-work large enough to receive
my coffin, and that may be placed in a box if
they choose, made of the same material as the
coffin—redwood. Then place flat rocks over
the vault, sufficiently large to cover it, and the
earth may be placed over it—nice, fine, dry
earth—to cover it until the walls of the little
cemetery are reared which will leave me in the
southeast corner. This vault ought to be
roofed over with some kind of temporary roof.
There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest
in peace and have a good sleep until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection; no crying, nor
mourning with any one that I have done my
work faithfully and in good faith.
	I wish this to be read at the funeral, provid-
ing that if I should die anywhere in the
Mountains, I desire the above directions re-
specting my place of burial to be observed;
but if I should live to go back with the Church
to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there.
	BRIGHAM YOUNG,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
	of Latter-day Saints
SUNDAY, November 9th, 1873,
	Salt Lake City, Utah Ter.

[Column 3]

Afterwards making some exquisitely touching
remarks. He was followed by Elder John Tay-
lor, who spoke with great power and spiritual
eloquence. A funeral hymn composed expressly
for the occasion was then sung. (This hymn we
publish on our first page.)
	Elder Cannon gave instructions in regard to
the procession, and Elder Orson Hyde pro-
nounced the benediction (which will be found
in full on another page).
	While the congregation was passing our of
the Tabernacle, the organ, orchestra and choir
performed "The Dead March," with the words
"Unveil thy bosom faithful tomb." The pro-
cession, consisting of thousands, formed in per-
fect order, according to programme proceeded to
the cemetery, where the Union Glee Club sang
"O my Father, Thou that Dwellest," and Elder
Wilford Woodruff offered the Dedicatory
Prayer: This most solemn, grand and impres-
sive funeral, so perfect in all its arrangements
and details, carried to the bosom of every Lat-
ter-day Saint a sweet feeling of holy calm and
quiet, sacred sympathy that words are wholly
inadequate to express. Order, peace and har-
mony pervaded the vast multitude, and one
could very easily believe angels and holy beings
were witnesses on that grand and sublime oc-
casion.


