		ELDER WILFORD WOODRUFF.

	We have lying before us the earthly taber-
nacle of President Brigham Young. His voice
is hushed in death, and all Israel has to bow
and submit to the mind and will of God. Is-
rael will never again hear his voice until af-
ter the resurrection. I have no desire to occu-
py the time of this assembly in eulogizing the
life of President Young. His works and words
are recorded in heaven, and they are recorded
here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let
those of us who remain a few days study the
counsels, the sermons and principles which
have been revealed unto us through the mouth
of this the prophet of God. It will be but a
few days until a great many of us who are in
this assembly will follow him.
	It seems as though Joseph was anxious to
have him on the other side of the veil, with
almost all the men that labored with him and
stood shoulder to shoulder with him in the
flesh. I do not suppose there was ever a man
breathed the breath of life, who in the short
space of forty-five years has done so much to-
wards the establishment of the government
and kingdom of God, as our beloved President.
His life has been before many of you for sev-
eral years, and to some from the commence-
ment of his labors in this church. He felt the
weight of this dispensation resting upon him;
he certainly has been true and faithful unto
death, and he is prepared to riceive a crown of
life.
	About all I wish to do in my remarks is to
exhort this great body of people who hold the
holy priesthood that the few remaining days
of our earthly life we continue, faithfully, the
work that is now left to us to do. "The Lord
has given and the Lord has taken away, and
bleesed is the name of the Lord." The great
desire of President Young in the last year of
his life, as well as previously, was that before
he passed away he might erect Temples to the
name of the Lord, in that way and manner
that men holding the holy priesthood in the
flesh could enter into those temples and per-
form their missions, for the redemption of the
dead. This has been plainly manifested to all
who have been much in his company. I re-

[Column 2]
joice that he lived long enough to enter into
one Temple, and to attend to its dedication,
and to commence the work of others. And I
would say to this people, let us go to and finish
these Temples, that we may continue the work
required of us. I trust we will realize the im-
portance of the great and serious responsibili-
ties resting upon us who are engaged in the
work which comprehends all others; it being
the great and last dispensation of the fulness
of times; that we, like our leader may be dili-
gent, day and night, in striving to carry out
the counsels given us.
	I feel to thank God in my spirit that our be-
loved President has had the privilege, when
his work was finished, of laying down his
body in peace, at home, surrounded by his fam-
ily and friends; instead of suffering martyrdom
as did our former President, and as did nearly
all of the ancient Apostles. This, to me is
certainly very consoling. And I would repeat,
let us accomplish the work laid upon us by our
beloved leader, so that when our time is end-
ed, we can go hence and be welcomed into the
society of Brigham, Joseph, George A., Broth-
er Kimball and the host of Elders who have
dwelt in the flesh and proven faithful and true,
feeling satisfied with our labors.
	It is said that "blessings brighten as they
take their flight." I have often felt in listen-
ing to the glorious principles of President
Young that the people here heard him so
much that they hardly prized the beauty and
the extent of the results and virtues of his
teachings. Brethren let us give these things
our serious attention and remember them, and
carry them out in our lives. Let us keep the
commandments, striving in all earnestness to
be true and faithful to the end of our work, so
that we may share the joys of those men
whose names brighten the pages of our his-
tory.
	I would say to the bereaved family, may
God comfort and bless you and give you in-
creasedly of His Spirit. Your husband and
father has gone to prepare the way for his
family who must sooner or later follow after
him. If you, as his wives, his sons and daugh-
ters keep his sayings, you will be prepared to
meet him in the morning of the resurrection,
numbered among the faithful and worthy
ones. And to my brethren and sisters who
have heard his voice for these many years:
let us not forget the precious words of truth
and wisdom he has taught us. We are living
in a time of important changes. If ever a
man could have been saved from dying through
prayer, President Brigham Young could. But
it was not in the power of man to keep him
here. I believe Bro. Geo. A Smith was kept
from dying through the prayers of his breth-
ren and the saints, several months after he was
called away. But when the Lord calls we
must go. When we received word in St.
George of the sickness of President Young, we
stopped all business, and went into the Tem-
ple remaining mostly for two days and nights
engaged in supplicating Almighty God for his
recovery, until the time of his death. Having
finished his work he had to go; and he is now
beyond the power of pain and sorrow, sickness
and death. He has been true and faithful to
the end, and therefore all is, well with him.
	That God may bless us all, and help us to re-
alize the responsibility we are under to him,
to our fellow men and to each other, to the
living and to the dead, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


MRS. E. A. C. Blodgett will lecture the 
coming season on "Among the Breakers."


