			A TRIBUTE.

Thou unforgotten one! My noble Sire!
Upon the altar of my loving heart
Burns ever bright the holy [--]ial fire!
Nought can extinguish while my mem'ry lives.
Thou good and noble! I did love thee well;
And honor'd thee, as subject did a king;
Thou wert the idol of my childish days,
And in my infant heart you reign'd supreme;
The "bright particular star" whose vivid ray
Shed warmth and sunlight on my daily path!
When thou wert absent how I counted o'er
The days that must elapse ere thy return—
All nature seem'd to me to sit, and wait,
And watch, and wait for thee; no life appear'd
To my young spirit in the things of life
When thou wert absent from the dear old Home!
The sun, though shining, seem'd not half so bright
As when beheld beneath thy voice of love!—
Thy voice so musical and its tones so sweet;
Thy form so noble, beautiful and good;
Beside a king, thou wouldst his compeer been,
Beside an honest man, his counterpart!
Thy footstep!—years have flown, and yet I shut
Mine eyes and listen, and I hear it still!
And all the language that it ever spoke.
Thine eye!—when that shone out approval
Twas my "exceeding great reward," and when
It looked severe upon me, the great deep
Of my heart's fountain, then, was broken up;
And as I grew this strengthen'd with my strength,
And if I wrote, it was that he might read,
And his approval all my guerdon was,
And all th' applause my heart or brain did crave;
He in my heart was oracle and judge.

Since those sweet days, a mighty change has come—
He sank, and died, to lose the ones he lov'd—
For they to him were stars of destiny;
But all is right with him; he was on earth
All that a righteous man has scope to be,
In this probation, where the bounds are set;
He walked according to the light he had,
And God, of men or angels, asks no more;
He has a future! a great, grand future,
And the inspiration of this [--]ial lay
Is, that I might twine his honor'd name
Among the Saints of latter days, knowing
His place is with them, and a day shall come
When he shall rise and stand among their ranks.
And she, who was the partner of his life,
Worthy, and most beloved by him, his hand
Shall hold, and lead forever—his endow'd,
His chaste, and most obedient wife. In
Vision I behold them! good and noble pair;
Redeemed, baptized, endowed, accepted Saints;
United stand among the serried ranks
Of Saints of Latter days—Christ's Church on earth:
And I their cherished child with them once more.
								HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Aug. 19th, 1877.


[Column 1]

