	DEATH OF MISS CARPENTER. — Miss
Mary Carpenter, who was well known for
the active part she has taken in the reform-
atory movement, and in the promotion of
ragged schools and of female education,
died a short time since at Redhedge, Bris-
tol. She was the daughter of the late Rev.
Dr. Lant Carpenter, of Bristol, and was
born in 1807. She had published several
works on the best methods of dealing with
youthful criminals, and on various other
philanthropic and educational subjects. She
read many papers before the Social Science
Association, and paid four visits to India
for the purpose of promoting female educa-
tion and prison reform in that country. her
last visit was made in 1875-76; and only
recently a parliamentary paper was issued
containing two letters which Miss Carpen-
ter had written to Lord Salisbury, at his
Lordship's desire giving her views upon
the questions of female education and prison
discipline in India.

	PETITIONS FOR a Sixteenth Amendment
for Woman, from 10,000 United States citi-
zens, from twenty-two States, have been
presented in open House and Senate by
thirty-one Representatives and twenty-nine
Senators since January 9th, 1877. The
friends of Woman Suffrage in both Houses
who intend to advocate this amendment in
the new Congress, desire its friends to sus-
tain them by mammoth petitions from
every quarter. It is earnestly desired that
all who have a desire to see woman in pos-
session of the right to advancement on an
equal footing with her brother man, will
sign these petitions, and thereby show to
the world that the shackles of superstition
and false education can be unriveted with-
out the  heretofore popular methods of war.
	Woman has fully demonstrated wherever
an opportunity has been given her, that
she is capable of taking her place side by
side with man, intellectually, and as the
ballot ought to be governed by intelligence
there is no reason why woman should be
deprived of its use.—Wolcottville (Ind.)
Gazette. 

	THE DEATH of Lady Sterling-Maxwell,
(better known as Hon. Mrs. Norton,) for-
merly Miss Caroline Elizabeth Sarah Sher-
idan, occurred recently; she was born in

1808, and was the daughter of the late Mr.
Thomas Sheridan, and granddaughter of 
the Right Hon. Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
At a very early age she shewed a taste for
authoriship, and produced "The Dandle's 
Rout," with illustrations from her own de-
signs. In 1821 she published "The Sor-
rows of Rosalie," and in 1831 a poem called
"The Undying One," based on the legend
of "The Wandering Jew." These were
followed by several volumes of poems and
works of fiction some of the latest of
which were "Lost and Saved," published 
in 1868. Miss Sheridan married, about
1829, the Hon. George C. Norton, a brother
to Lord Grantly and for many years a mag-
istrate at the Lambeth Police court. Mr.
Norton died in 1875; and on the 2nd of last
March, Mrs. Norton, who had for some time
been confined to her room, was married at 
her own residence to Sir William Sterling-
Maxwell, Bart. M. P.


	MRS. Virginia Barnhurst. Secretary of
the Natioal Woman Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia, has written some of the
strongest and mose able articles on the wo-
man question. In the "Ballot Box" of Sep-
tember she has an article entitled "Careless
Admissions," which strikes us as being
well-timed and to the point. We would
gladly publish it in full but can now only
qote part of it: "Women have reay noth-
ing to a of men in thi matter. no more 
than one man has to ask of another, exept-
ing to request that they will not interfere
with the exercise of their rights, and when 
they appeal to the government, as they now 
are doing, it is not for RIGHTS, but for pro-
tection in the exercise of rights." Mrs. B.
says, "I once heard one of our prominent
woman speakers from the platform, in a 
sweet, pathetic and quite imploring voice
appeal to the men in the audience with "It 
is so easy to give us the right; you can if
you will." All of this, however concilatory,
tame, and traditionally womanly, goes to 
make an admisses that is neither intended,
nor one that can be made false as it is with-
out drawing upon us ever ready to criticism.
It means nothing more nor less than that 
woman has not the right to vote-that man 
has, and, too, that he has the authoirty to 
give her the right, whenever his lordship
may, in his own good time, see proper to
be so agreeable and condescending.
	In the first place women are not asking
for rights. Rights are something that can
neither be given not taken away, and if it 
were otherwise she would not be likely to 
go to man for them, as according to Ameri-
can autonomy rights are equal in citizen-
ship, and thus one citizen has no more power
than another, and has nothing to give to
that other which that other, like him or
her, does not possess. If by some HOCUS-
POCUs it has come that man is in EXERCISE
of the franchise and woman is not, this 
does not weaken or destroy woman's right
to it, neither does it give him the least au-
thority over her right."


MRS. J. Southworth Spaulding will lec-
ture this winter on "How shall we Help
Ourselves" and "Popular Fallacies."


