R. S. REPORTS.
DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER CO.,
Aug. 27th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 We held our Second Annual Meeting
Aug. 6th, 1877.  It being election day the
school house was occupied, and our Presi-
dent being sick at the time, meeting was
held at her residence.  President Harriet
A. Snow and Mrs. Fannie Loveland of
Brigham City were present and gave good
instructions to old and young; exhorted the
sisters to live their religion and have char-
ity one for another.  President J. C. Dewey
occupied a portion of the time, and spoke
encouraging words to us; said the Relief
Society was a great help to him.  Mrs. Dur-
fee gave a brief history of her experience
in the church, which was very interesting,
as she had been a member for forty years.
 The treasurer read a report of one year's
proceedings in the Society, which was
unanimously accpeted. We have means in
the Society to the amount of thirty dollars.
Here I will mention about saving Sunday
eggs: after our first annual meeting our
president proposed for each sister to save
Sunday eggs, for the benefit of the Society
which met with opposition (as all good
principles do), but ten sisters united with
her and saved their Sunday eggs, which
amounted to thirty-six dollars in one year.
Allow me to state here that I think this is
the most appropriate plan of getting means
in a Society that I know of.  We meet once
in two weeks and a good spirit prevails
throughout our little settlement, and we
begin to realize the benefit of a Relief So-
ciety.  We had a Party in the evening
for the benefit of the Society; pleasant feel-
ings and united hearts made our party a
success. Your worthy paper is a great help
to us.
	Your sister in the true Gospel,
ELIZA HOWARD, Secretary.
LEVAN, JUAB CO., Aug. 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Knowing the interest you take in Relief
Societies, I thought a few items from our
quiet little settlement might not be unin-
teresting.  We held a meeting on Monday
last, when we were favored with the pres-
ence of President George Teasdale, Bishop
Aagaard, Elders Christiansen, Mitcock and
Hendricksen. Mrs. Nancy Hartley, who
has long been our president, and Mrs. Su-
san Mitcock, one of her counselors, resigned,
and although their reasons were perfectly
justifiable; their resignation was accepted
with regret.  The following officers were
unanimously sustained:
	Mrs. Sorina Aargaard, President.
	"	Catherine Dye,
	"	Hedevig Christianson,	Counselors,
	"	Eliza Curtis, Treasurer,
	"	Hannah Hendrickson, Secretary.
	A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. N.
Hartley and Mrs. S. Mitcock for their past
labors and counsel.
	President Teasdale gave us much encour-
agement and kind instructions.  We en-
joyed a very profitable meeting.
Respectfully,
HANNAH HENDRICKSON,
Secretary.
RICHVILLE, MORGAN CO.,
Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On the 25th of April last our Society was
called together by Bishop W. G. Smith, and
we were re-organized.  Mrs. Fannie Taggart
was chosen by the voice of the Society to
act as President; she then chose Susannah
S. Seamen and Ann Walden as her Counsel-
ors; the other officers were voted in. Our
Society is small, twenty members in all.
Since 1871 we have donated for public be-
nevolent purposes seventeen dollars and
sixty cents.  We help the poor as we have
opportunity.  We have now in the Treasury
three good quilts and a good parlor stove.
I thought a brief account of our Society
might not be uninteresting to you. The
sisters all feel anxious to do all in their
power to assist in rolling on this great work.
With much love for the cause, I subscribe
myself,
		Your fellow laborer in Zion,
FANNIE TAGGART.
SALEM, UTAH CO., Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of this place held their Second An-
nual Meeting July 27th, 1877.  Meeting
opened in the usual manner; after which
Bishop Robert H. Davis addressed the con-
gregation; he urged the sisters to be faith-
ful to their meetings, said it would prove a
great blessing to them in after years; he
also urged them to be true to the cove-
nants which they had made with them-
selves and with God.  Brother Clous O.
Bahr bore his testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. Excellent remarks were made by
Mrs. Alice Gardner, Mrs. Mary Reed, Mrs.
Lucinda Jackman and President Mrs. Mar-
tha Curtis.  There were a variety of pieces
recited and songs sung by members of the
Association. After meeting we me[-] at
Bishop Davis's and partook of a picnic,
which all seemed to enjoy.  Our Society is
small, but we try to do as well as we can.
There is considerable sickness in this place
at present, more than has been known for
some years past; there have been several
deaths among the children, but we know
they died innocent, and will be permitted
to come forth in the morning of the First
Resurrection, and if we are faithful we
shall be permitted to meet them again.
Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and those interested in it, we subscribe
ourselves,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				A. S. HANKS, Secretary,
I. CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]
