MAKING BREAD.

	Farmers will be interested to know that
great changes are being made in bread-mak-
ing. For years physicians have traced dis-
eases of the alimentary canal and its con-
nections to our systems of milling wheat
and to the puffy style of baking. The pas-
sion for white flour obliges the miller to give
to cattle the most nutritious part of the
berry—viz: the gluten or muscle-making
element, without which our common bread
loses two thirds of its value, and imposes
on the digestive organs double duty. Min-


nesota takes the lead, in the reformation.
More than twenty mills are now bleaching
the gluten, so that the flour shows very lit-
tle discoloration. It is claimed that one-
third more water is absorbed and baking is
made easy. Every one admits that the
bread is much sweeter; and dyspeptics find
permanent relief. Thus many mills attest
the growing popularity of this new flour,
and ought to commend the system to Cali-
fornians. Gluten flour is not bran flour,
though bran as now milled includes the
gluten. The new system separates the
bran from the berry; leaving the gluten.
The bran is a mere skin of silex. It is in-
digestible, and therefore bran bread fails of
its purpose.
	The French Government has for fifteen
years past prepared the army and navy
bread by a process kept secret, but effec-
tively it is the same. Now the United
States Government has adopted a system,
which though claiming to be American, is
supposed to be French. It commends itself
to our farmers, because every family can
make its own flour and get bread of greater
sweetness and higher nutriment. The
grain is first put into hot water and cleans-
ed. Then it is allowed to remain immersed
seven hours, or sufficiently to so loosen the
filmy corslets of the berry that it is readily
detatched by agitation and slight friction.
The gluten loses much of its dark shade
without loss of substance. The whole mass
being now swelled is passed through rollers,
which reduce it to pulp ready for the
dough trough. Its subsequent treatment
follows the usual routine. There is in
Chicago a large mill making "attrition
flour," which serves the same purpose.
"Instead of mill-stones taking the very
life out of wheat by close grinding and
heating," fast revolving blades receive the
streaming grain, which in its passage is in-
stantly pulverized without heating. Pre-
viously to this the berry is decorticated
without being robbed of its gluten. We
received a barrel of attrition flour from
Chicago and fully tested it. It required
some change in mixing the dough, but for
sweetness of bread and ease of digestion,
it surpassed all other bread; and certainly
it made one-fourth more bread than cus-
tomary.—San Francisco Chronicle.


[Column 1]
VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
