[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: An Appreciation Edith Ivins Lamoreaux]

An Appreciation
By Edith Ivins Lamoreaux
It was the good fortune recently of the officers and members in one stake of Zion to listen to our beloved poet and apostle, Elder Orson F. Whitney give an inspirational talk on literature at a Relief Society stake conference. Though for illustration suited to the occasion, Elder Whitney called attention to many of the poets as prophets?men inspired of God, the reference to the works of James Russell Lowell was most applicable to our recent lessons, and was greatly appreciated by those present.
Most aptly did he portray to us the idea, as expressed by Shakespeare:
"There is a divinity that shapes our ends Rough-hew them, how we will."
Two of Lowell's poems, "A Glance Behind the Curtain," and "Columbus," according to Elder Whitney, open this vision vividly before us. The former is a "glance" into the inner life of the great English Commoner, Oliver Cromwell, the story of whose
AN APPRECIATION 571
rise to power in England we all remember. His staunch co-laborer and friend, John Hampden, also a prominent figure in the dethronement of England's King, Charles I, realizing the dangers awaiting them both, through political and religious intrigue among their followers, suggests a means of escape, with future prospects of safety and freedom, by flight to America in these words:
"O Cromwell, we are fallen on evil times!
"Therefore, let us seek out that savage clime where men as yet Are free; there sleeps the vessel on the tide, Her languid canvas drooping for the wind.
"All things are fitly cared for, and the Lord Will watch as kindly o'er the exodus Of us, his servants, now as in old time."
Standing on the pier, where vessels soon bound for America lay anchored in the harbor of the Thames, the temptation was as strong in Cromwell as in Hampden. Suddenly as if upon the blue sky he saw his doom portrayed as did Beltshazzer before the fall of Babylon, Cromwell made reply:
"Hampden, a moment since my purpose was to fly with thee, For I will call it flight, nor flatter it with any Smoother name? But something in me bids me not to go. And I am one thou knowest, who unmoved By what the weak deem omens, yet give heed And reverence due, to whatsoe'er my soul Whispers of warning to the inner ear."
And farther on:
"We learn our own souls more, tossing for an hour Upon this huge and ever-vexed sea, Of human thought, where kingdoms go to wreck Like fragile bubbles yonder in the stream, Than in a cycle of New England sloth, Broke only by a petty Indian War."
And also:
"No man is born into the world whose work Is not born with him! There is always work And tools to work withal, for those who will; And blessed are the horny hands of toil!"
Mothers in Israel, do we believe this latter doctrine of Cromwell's as portrayed by Lowell? Are we endeavoring to teach it to our children;


As Book of Mormon students we concede our belief in the divine mission and guidance of Columbus, in the discovery of America, the promised land. But personally, I needed the eloquent touch of Elder Whitney's magic wand to make me appreciate the human side of this great character, who by working out God's will made possible so much of peace and happiness for us?the chosen seed of Israel?the Latter-day Saints here in this land of the free.
Oh! The agony that must have filled his soul on ship board, on that memorable night when his crew had mutinied, threatening that if land was not in sight next day, they would throw him overboard into the sea! Alone with God and the stars he says:
"Oh Faith! If thou art strong, thine opposite Is mighty also, and the dull fool's sneer Hath oftimes shot chill palsy through the arm, Just lifted to achieve its crowning deed."
Like Cromwell he had moments of temptation to give up. He says:
"I might turn back to other destinies, For one sincere key opes all Fortune's doors; But whoso answers not God's earliest call Forfeits or dulls that faculty supreme Of lying open to his genius, Which makes the wise heart certain of its needs."
And again he says:
"Here am I; for what end God knows, not I; Westward still points the inexorable soul! Here am I, with no friend but the sad sea, The beating heart of this great enterprise, Which, without me, would stiffen in swift death."
We know the story of his triumph. How when the ship's captain came to him each hour, with the query, "What shall I say to these thy mutinous men," his only answer was "Sail on! Sail on!" How land appeared in answer to his prayer; and that his first thought upon setting foot on soil was to kneel in thanksgiving to Him who helped him reach his goal.
Thus I might go on?but in closing let me give these lines from Lowell most applicable to us all:
"Life is a sheet of paper white, Whereon each of us may write His little word, and then comes night. Greatly begin! Though thou have time But for a line, be that sublime! Not failure, but low aim is crime."