[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Thanksgiving Lesson A. E. Winship]

A Thanksgiving Lesson
By A. E. Winship
This article, A Thanksgiving Lesson, was inspired by a visit of Dr. A. E. Winship to the Sunday schools of the city of Ogden. The people in that city will have some idea of the time when the article was written, from the fact that Dr. Winship states that Ogden was then a city of less than 20,000 inhabitants.
It was the Sunday before Thanksgiving; a cold, raw, dismal November Sunday in an unattractive hotel in a city of less than 20,000 inhabitants, a city in which I had no comrades. There was really nothing that gave me a thanksgiving spirit.
The only thing that interested me was the statement by some stranger, sometime before, that there was a remarkable Sunday school in that city, and though I had not thought of a Sunday school as being especially attractive on such a day, I went uninvited and was there unrecognized.
I was short on appreciation of Sunday schools, I had played in hard luck on Sunday school attractions and in general had heard no praises sung on them, so that the fact that anybody had spoken in emphatic praise of any Sunday school was in itself alluring.
The first classroom I entered, a primary class, captivated me at once, and as no one seemed to know I was there, I stayed with an interest increasing in geometrical ratio. I was amazed that the lesson period lasted fifty minutes instead of the traditional twenty minutes. The children, every one of them, were as interested as I was, and could demonstrate their interest as I could not.
It at once developed that there had been two previous lessons on Thanksgiving, an approach to the real Sunday-before-Thanksgiving, and more than ten minutes was devoted to the review of each of those lessons, and every child knew all about both lessons, so that the reviews went off exuberantly.
The first lesson, as an approach to this lesson, had dwelt upon the way water was provided in their homes and in the country homes they had visited. Some homes get water from a well, get the water from the well in buckets. Some get water from pumps. Some wells and pumps are a long distance from the house. Sometimes women have to go for the water in all kinds of weather. None of their homes in the city had wells or pumps, few of them could have wells or pumps because the houses were too close together and


some of them lived in apartment houses where there were several families. They got water from a faucet. They could get hot water from a faucet. They were thankful for plumbers who could put in pipes and faucets; thankful to the city water department. They saw all sorts of causes for thanksgiving.
The second lesson, which was reviewed enthusiastically, gave cause for thanksgiving for the city government that provided the city water department, for the taxpayers who paid for all this, for the Legislature that provided the big reservoir that supplied the water for that city and several other places. They knew who was in the city government from that part of the city, who was in the Legislature from that city, and saw a lot of cause they had for thanksgiving.
With these reviewed lessons out of the way, the work of the Sunday-before-Thanksgiving began. Where does the reservoir get its water? From the river. Where does the river get its water? From the hills. Where do the hills get the water? From the rain. Where does the rain get water? From the clouds. Where do the clouds get water? This required a lot of explaining by the teacher about evaporation, and the way the atmosphere gets its moisture from the earth. The children had been getting ready for this. The children saw what wonderful natural laws there were, and were thankful for the laws of nature as they had been for the plumber, the city water department, the city government and the legislature.
Then she told them about the Bible, what a wonderful book it is, and had them learn and recite the text from the Old Testament, "Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again." Long before men knew anything about water works, or the laws of nature, the Lord had a man say that "Unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again." The Lord is really the giver of all these gifts of water to the clouds, water for the rain, water for the rivers, water for the reservoirs, water for water pipes, water for the faucets. How many things we have to thank the Lord for!
It was a wonderful Thanksgiving service for those children. It is just as vivid to me today as it was on that stormy Sunday before Thanksgiving several years ago.