[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial—Woman and the Scientific Age]

Woman and the Scientific Age
The scientific age has proved a real boon to woman. She has been the beneficiary of its practical output to a very marked degree. A veritable revolution has been wrought in household work in forty years' time. The electric motor has succeeded in eliminating the old fashioned washboard, a symbol of household drudgery. A goodly number of homes possess a mangling machine which, with the aid of the electric iron, has so revolutionized ironing that the methods of laundering in the home today are quite as different as the methods of lighting and heating. All of us recall the discomfort engendered in a house by heating irons on a coal stove to launder summer clothing. Today the attachment of an electric iron to a socket in the coolest room in the house permits us to prepare summer clothing in an atmosphere of comfort.
Our pioneer grandmothers tell us that their homes were lighted with a tallow dip. Many of our mothers and grandmothers spent hours of time each day filling lamps with kerosene oil, polishing lamp glasses and globes in order to light the home in the evening. Then, if the lamp were other than a hanging lamp suspended from the ceiling or one that could be fastened securely to the side of the wall, they worried constantly lest some of the children might pull the table cover or climb upon the table and push the lamp over, thereby setting themselves and
EDITORIAL 569
the house afire. Today very little insecurity is felt because of lighting equipment, and very little time is spent polishing globes and lighting attachments. Most of our daily duty in this respect consists of touching a button, which immediately floods the room with light.
The apparatus of the kitchen, consisting of gas and electric stoves, makes it possible to work quickly and with a minimum of heat in the summer time. Also such devices as percolators, waffle irons, chafing dishes, etc., add to the convenience of the kitchen. So much for time saving devices in the home.
Yet other devices are found in the home, which are the products of science, not purely utilitarian in character. Many women today wash their dishes while they listen to a solo from Caruso, Alma Gluck, or Galli-Curci. Women sit in their homes and hear sermons preached in San Francisco and addresses delivered to culture societies in Denver. The campaign of this season has been to a surprising extent conducted by means of the radio. Yet, while the phonograph and the radio furnish the home in many instances with the cultural products of our time, it is doubted if anything has really brought more pleasure into the lives of the people of today than the motor car or automobile. Through this most pleasing asset, people from this and many other states yearly visit Bryce, Little Zion, the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, Cedar Breaks, American Fork Canyon, Cottonwood Canyon, Ogden and Logan Canyons, and other canyons that prove most enchanting to lovers of nature.
All these things are the products of science, and they have practically revolutionized the lives of tens of thousands of people. We may not know what the concrete elements of that new heaven, towards which we are all looking, may be, but all of us are certainly reasonably familiar with the things that have combined to make for us a new earth. For these things we should be duly grateful, and while we thank the Lord for the harvest of the year and praise Him for all blessings received, we should not be unmindful that every good and perfect gift cometh from above, and that he has inspired and led men to ferret out the mysteries of the universe, so that they have come into possession of knowledge that has made it possible for them to harness the forces of nature and bring to us devices of untold value that enrich our lives.
The Elizabethan dramatists were fond of having their characters say that they would "put a girdle 'round about the earth in forty minutes." Shakespeare was not the originator of that expression. He put into Puck's mouth the thing that had been said by his predecessors. In all probability those people had but a vague notion of the thing they talked of, yet that which they dreamed the moderns have realized; for, through the aid of sci-


ence, we of this latter day have in a variety of ways put a girdle "round about the earth in forty minutes."