[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: FACTS AND FIGURES. | Author: Unknown]

FACTS AND FIGURES.

	MR. Alexander Mitchel, M. C., from Wis-
consin, is reputed to be worth $16,000,000.
	The Choctaws and Cherokees of Indian
Territory raised 5,000 bales of cotton last
season.
	THE Khedive of Egypt paid £40,000 as
the cost of Sir Samuel Baker's African ex-
pedition.
	REVERDY Johnson has won his $5,000 fee
case against the Baltimore and Ohio Rail-
road Company.
	According to returns and estimates, the
number of sheep in France and in England
is about equal—35,000,000 in each.
	COLORADO, which had not a mile of rail-
road less than five years ago, has now ten
lines, having a total length of 668 miles.
	According to the last returns the aggre-
gate income of the English life insurance
offices is $77,000,000; their total accumula-
ted funds amount to $560,000,000, and the
policies in force represent nearly $1,750,000,
000.
	MRS. C. W. Haskins has laid the "corner
stone" of the Orphan Girls' Free Home, at
385 Warren avenue, Chicago where she pro-
poses to take young girls of from 12 to 15
years of age, and provide for them a home,
where education and industry may save
them from destitution and sin.
	A CONNECTICUT school boy (H. L. Andrews)
is the inventor and owner of some half doz-
en patents on school desks and ink wells, in
addition to the "Patent Gothic School Desk
and seat," and the "Triumph Desk and
seat," which are said to be unequalled by
any school desks ever made. More than
three quarters of a million of these desks
have been sold.


COMET'S TAILS.—A paper was read before
the Hackney, England, Scientific Associa-
tion recently by Mr. J. A. Reeves, advancing
an entirely new theory with regard to com-
ets. By the use of diagrams, he showed
that the part of the comet termed the tail
being always in a direction from the sun, and
therefore as often in advance of, as behind
the nucleus, is not really a tail. That as
comets are transparent, and all matter is
known to be either solid, liquid, or gaseous,
comets must be the latter, for solids and
liquids are opaque. That the only known
power by which this gaseous matter can be
held together, is gravity, which must nec-
essarily have a centre, and every part of the
body being free to move, resolves itself into
a sphere, the centre of which is in many
cases exceedingly dense, gradually thinner
towards the circumference. That the rays
of the sun are refracted in their passage
through this spherical comet, thus illumi-
nating the portion beyond the centre or nu-
cleus, which illumination forms the tail.
Mr. Reeves then explained how the various
and peculiar phenomena of comets arise;
and that they are entirely in accordance with
the universal laws of nature.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			     NATURE.
	Thou, beauteous Nature, art my worthy them:
But language fails me when I sing thy praise:
My soul is full—it has no words to tell
How, at thy blessed shrine I find a God.
What rapture swells my heart and thrills my veins
With admiration when on thee I gaze!
For in thy beauties, ever new and strange,
And wonderful, my God, I can discern—
In every leaf and flower and clinging vine,
In running brook and rill, my God I see:
In winds that moan and wail—in thunder peals—
In ocean's angry waves, I hear His voice.
So in the zephyrs, with their soft embrace
And balmy breath of Spring, I feel Him near.

	In flowery vales, in mountains, glens and streams—
In rugged rocks, and caves, and waving trees;
In sunset scenes, and ever varying skies,
Each day, new beauties live, to charm my sight.
Whatever changing garb thou e'er might don,
I only love thee Nature, more and more.

	Roll on, ye thunders, and ye lightnings flash—
Break o'er thy crags, O sea—ye winds moan on:
Ye cannot strike one pang of trembling dread
Through this fond heart of mine, that knows no fear;
For I love God, and trust his love for me.
He may chastise, but yet, I still, shall feel,
'Twas rightly done—"He doeth all things well."

	O Nature that with thee, I more could dwell,
To keep my soul from earthly dross and sin;
That I might thus be bless'd and purified
And God, my Father, ne'er forget, or grieve;
And everywhere I chance to turn my eyes,
In all His glorious works, behold my God.
S. L. City.							J. E. D.


