Magazine PROFILES IN VALOR Within all life a spark of courage throbs which bids fight back, fight on, fight through. A silvered salmon flails its way upstream against the lash of waterfall the surge of river flow A lone tree spires itself against the sky from the no-soil wilderness of rock in. Brave defiance to the wind and rain. Foot-crumpled blades of grass spring back, resilient, and a single, fragile flower, rooted in faith, proves it can cleave its way through granite to the sun. —Kathryn Kay The Cover: Snow and Autumn Leaves—Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News "a Frontispiece: § Cypress on the California Coast Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: jf Mary Scopes 801 From Near and Far It was with great interest that I read in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine

about the family of Elder Marion Rogers of Snowflake, Arizona, written by one of his

daughters (Mayola R. Miltenberger). In 1922, Elder Rogers baptized me in Sheffield,

England. I was then a member of a small branch in Lincolnshire. Except for a few years

during the war I have been active in the Church ever since. At present I am cultural

refinement class leader in the Sunderland Ward, Sunderland Stake.

M^r'^ /\. Akenhead, Sunderland, Durham, England

I must thank you very much for the small poem "Stay" in the August issue of the Magazine

(by Leora Larsen). It provided me with exactly the right thought to send to my

sister. We have been parted for a little over a year. All of the poetry in the Magazine is

special to me because, before my marriage, mother and I read the poetry together. I

feel that we still share the poems, even though we are not together.

Nancy Bowman, Barbers Point, Hawaii

I wish to thank a very dear friend, Eva Rydalch, for giving me so much enjoyment as I

find in The Relief Society Magazine. I have enjoyed the serial "Welcome the Task" (by

Michele Bartmess). I enjoy all of the continued stories and the recipes. I have looked

in many cookbooks to find a recipe for date pudding— and there it was in the August

Magazine (by Betty Mazzacano). My mother made date pudding when I was a child.

We did not always have the nuts to put in the pudding, but we used substitutes— and

the pudding was a luxury. Evelin Pardun, Riverbank, California

How thrilled I was to read the story "Missionaries to Dinner" (by Joan Nelson Ahlman)

in the July Magazine. It was like a page from my own diary. We love the elders and try

to make them welcome in our land. We have had much joy from inviting them to our

home. A convert of two years only, I find the Magazine invaluable, and treasure it so

much that I have given subscriptions to my friends. Never have I read a Magazine

with more universal appeal. Margaret Park, East Kilbride, Scotland

I think the cover picture on the August Magazine is outstanding (Bernkastelkues on

the Mosel River, Germany). I have admired all the lovely color prints, but this one is

special. The Magazine has brought much joy and insight into my life.

Mary K. Hoover, Junction City, Kansas

I especially enjoyed the poem "Roadside Moment— Summer" by Katherine F. Larsen, in

the August issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Larsen certainly captures the beauty of a

momentary image. Thanks for all the lovely poetry printed in the Magazine.

B. Barnes Richardson, Milwaukie, Oregon

I read the article "South Africa— Land of Gold and Green," by Caroline Eyring Miner, in

the June issue of the Magazine. The article and pictures are beautiful, as are all the

other articles and the lessons published in the Magazine. I love it.

Cathy Budd, Sunderland, Surrey, England

I have read the three prize-winning stories in the April issue of the Magazine and loved

them all. I was happy to see a pioneer romance for a winner ("A Horse and Buggy

Romance" by Iris W. Schow). Miss Schow did a lovely job in handling her subject. I

appreciated the second-prize story ("Mama and the Teddy Bear" by Lael J. Littke)

for any story by Mrs. Littke has to be good. She delights me. But I want to rave a

little about the third-prize story (The "Silver Pitcher" by Grace M. Pratt). It seems to

me she used a masterful stroke, and there are understanding and depth in her story.

I hope to meet all three of these writers again and again in the pages of the

Magazine. Alice Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah