[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Lesson III - Genealogy - Prefixes and Suffixes Compound Surn]
PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES. COMPOUND SURNAMES — CHANGED SURNAMES. Many surnames were formed with the addition of the little preposition which preceded place names or followed place names in a qualifying sense. A prefix means something added before and a suffix means something added after. For instance, atte is an Anglo-Saxon prefix meaning at the; Atte-Oak would mean at the oak. The Anglo-Saxon den or denn meant a cave or hole; so Oak-Den would mean a cave near an oak. Norman prefixes often consisted of the French de or le, de meaning of; de always preceded the name of a place whence the Norman came, and where he had a castle or an earthwork crowned by a wooden structure, in which he and his family lived. At the time of the Conquest very few nobles and knights had stone dwellings. It sufficed him to throw up a trench — in French motte — and to crown it with a house built of wood, reached by a ladder, little better than a hen-roost. In instances where a placename began with a vowel, the middle e would be dropped and the de would be fastened right on to the name like, Danvers (D'Anvers), Deveux, Daubigny, Darcy, and Dawney. The German used von with the same meaning. The Le introduced by the Normans was the prefix before a descriptive name of a trade or else of a functionary, or expressing some personal characteristic: Le Roux, he of the ruddy complexion or with red hair; Le Portier, the doorward. L'Estranger had become Stranger. With its tail cut off it is Strange. Le also preceded the.designation of a man from foreign parts, as Le Brabazon, Le Breton or the man from Breton. The prefix de was changed later to the and with the lapse of centuries the Saxon the and the Norman de were both dropped by Englishmen. Adam the page and Phillip the cook became, with the incoming Normans, Adam le Page and Phillip le Cook. Then the articles were dropped altogether and the surname would simply be Page and Cook. The same thing happened with de: Richard de Berry and Elias de Oxbridge meant Richard of Berry and Elias of Oxbridge. Both de and le totally disappeared from the English records after 1535. Richard le Spicer and William de Dean were simply known as Richard Spicer and William Dean. In the same manner the Anglo-Saxon atte was dropped and men who had been called John Atte Ford, William Atte Hay and David Atte Stone found themselves after that time called simply John Ford, William Hay and David Stone. In a few instances, however, the atte remained as in Atwell, Atwood and Aston. A man might be called William the Long, or le Long; John le Young, or John the Young; Richard le Barber, or Richard the Barber; Robert the Cook, Adam the Page. Thomas the Spencer, or Henry le Walleys (the Welshman). The Welsh have ap, as a prefix; in the course of surname changes ap Rice has become Price, ap Einion has become Bunyan. ap Ewan has become Bevan, and ap Owen has become Bowen. 292 RELIEF S0CIE
