[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial War is Upon Us]

EDITORIAL .   Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. MAY, 1917. No. 5. WAR IS UPON US. War, * Out ward of and the noonward. East came a We cloudwere and all spread upso busy with eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage that we did not remember that as it was in the days of Noah so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. We knew there were fierce storms raging over there in the far eastern horizon beyond the waters of the great deep, but the sun had shone for us from childhood and clouds were but temporary matters. So the cloud spread. Out there in the far-away lands darkness is covering the earth, but having the Light we are inclined to waste our hours in play. Men have been wasting life and treasure out there in pungent streams — who can tell, women may yet join in active conflict side by side, with these blood-crazed, blind-folded men, as they did in the days of Mormon and Moroni. Why not? Life is counted cheap, parenthood is scorned, virtue a weakness of the poor, and faith a superstition. How naturally the war clouds have settled — spread — and are even now covering the whole earth. Here we face war's indirect problems. This In Utah. time next year we may be too war-stricken to talk about it. Twisted heartstrings give forth no sound. Death is dumb. Our present problems — yes & EDITORIAL. 285 — just the same old questions of daily duties. Add a pinch of economy, a fresh sprinkling of prayer, a dash of humor, and there you are. Have you a bit of ground around your house, War - five hundred or not more than fifty feet? Preparation Plant it into vegetables. Put in succulent For Women. roots, all kinds of growing things that will contribute life to yourselves and your families. No spot of ground which can be made to yield should be left vacant this war-year. Not an hour of time, an ounce of strength, or a crust of bread should be wasted during this critical period. The clouds are gathering — have we a right The Laws to shelter in the pavilion of Infinite Love of God. and Divine Law? God loves His warring sons under the European war clouds; but even He must let them reap the harvest of hate, disobedience and corruption which most of them have sown. If we would be protected by the Divine Law we must set our lives in tune with its mandates. And as the strength of a chain is its weakest link, so do this people rise and fall together — each lifted a little by the law-keepers or pulled down a little by the law-breakers. War may exact its toll from your household We Shall and mine — but when this Government calls Be Loyal. on Utah mothers and daughters, we shall know no allegiance except to God and the United States of America, and we will fling our starry banners to the breeze, and if need be fashion and clothe our sons for war, and with our last kiss whisper the trenchant words of Brigham Young to the boys he sent out into the borderland of conflict in pioneer days, — "Say your prayes, and keep your powder readiness.dry." Come, sisters, let us get our own powder in We are all Latter-day Saints, we wives and All Are mothers of the Relief Society, all American Americans. citizens. We know no English, Dutch, Scandinavian, nor German — we are voting units of Utah and of the United States of America. Therefore, we will work together, we English — Dutch — Scandinavian — German women patriots, born or adopted American, as we will all kneel together, whispering prayers for our loved ones, and yet asking God to abolish autocracy all over this sad earth, giving liberty to the people and hastening the day when He shall come to rule whose right it is to reign over the whole earth.