FEBRUARY, 1943 VOL. 30 NO.2 LESSONS FOR MAY
The Cover GEORGE WASHINGTON
THE cover picture for this issue of the Magazine is a reproduction of a portrait by Gilbert Stuart. The following interesting description of the physical appearance of George Washington was written by a friend, George Mercer, in 1760.
"As straight as an Indian, measuring six feet two inches in his stockings and weighing 175 pounds.... His frame is padded with well-developed muscles, indicating great strength. His bones and joints are large.... He is wide shouldered,... Is neat waisted, but is broad across the hips, and has rather long arms and legs. His head is well shaped though not large, but is gracefully poised on a superb neck. A large and straight rather than a prominent nose; blue-gray penetrating eyes, which are widely separated, and overhung by a heavy brow. His face is long rather than broad, with high, round cheek bones, and terminates in a good firm chin. He has a clear though rather a colorless pale skin, which burns with the sun. A pleasing, benevolent, though a commanding countenance, dark brown hair, which he wears in a cue. His mouth is large and generally firmly closed.... His features are regular and placid, with all the muscles of his face under perfect control, though flexible and expressive of deep feeling when moved by emotion. In conversation he looks you full in the face, is deliberate, deferential, and engaging. His voice is agreeable rather than strong. His demeanor at all times composed and dignified. His movements and gestures are graceful, his walk majestic, and he is a splendid horseman."
Cover arrangements by Evan Jensen.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Belle S. Spafford Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Donna D. Sorensen
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 30 FEBRUARY 1943 No. 2
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Tribute to Washington Daniel Webster Back of Frontispiece
Lucy Mack Smith Frontispiece
Lucy Mack Smith (Description of Picture) 79
Lucy Mack Smith Preston Nibley 80
Brotherhood Elder Harold B. Lee 84
George D. Pyper Milton Bennion 93
To Marry or Not To Marry In Time of War Harold T. Christensen 94
Gardening For Victory Hazel D. Moyle 100
How Grownup Are You? Mark Allen 106
Amy Brown Lyman Honored Marcia K. Howells 110
Planned Spring Cleaning Gertrude R. Garff 116
Flag Etiquette 118
"In God We Trust" 149
FICTION
Silent Strings Second Prize, Short Story Contest Blanche Kendall McKey 88
The Road Builder Rita Skousen Miller 103
GENERAL FEATURES
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 111
Editorial:
Our Liberty and Responsibilities Belle S. Spafford 112
Picture Presented to General Board 113
Notes to the Field:
Food Production and Processing Program 114
Anniversary Day Program 114
New Serial"Tomorrow's Cup" 115
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman 121
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony Revelation, Past, Present, and Future 129
Visiting Teachers The Spirit of the Good Neighbor 132
Work-and-Business Substitutes 133
Literature Great Themes In Bible Literature 136
Social Science Shrines and Monuments 141
General Presidents of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 144
POETRY
No Priorities Dott J. Sartori 83
Shadows Roberta Bates 92
Confession Ruth Louise Partridge 99
Superfine Elsie E. Barrett 105
Human Equation Bertha A. Kleinman 115
War Boneta LeBeau 148
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance, Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 57,000
Acknowledgement 115
George Washington February 22, 1732 - - - December 14, 1799
TRIBUTE BY DANIEL WEBSTER
"That man is intimately blended with whatever belongs most essentially to the prosperity, the liberty, the free institutions, and the renown of our country. That name was of power to rally a nation, in the hour of thick-thronging public disasters and calamities; that name shone, amid the storm of war a beacon light, to cheer and guide the country's friends; it flamed, too, like a meteor, to repel her foes. The name, in the days of peace, was a loadstone, attracting to itself a whole people's confidence, a whole people's love, and the whole world's respect. That name, descending with all time, spreading over the whole earth, and uttered in all the languages belonging to the tribes and races of men, will forever be pronounced with affectionate gratitude by everyone in whose breast there shall arise an aspiration for human rights and human liberty.... America has furnished to the world the character of Washington! And if our American institutions had done nothing else, that alone would have entitled them to the respect of mankind."
VoL. 30, No. 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1943
Lucy Mack Smith
THE Magazine presents as its frontispiece a black and white copy of a colored drawing of Lucy Mack Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The colored drawing, in size about fifteen by twenty-four inches, was presented to the Relief Society by Elder George Albert Smith at the meeting of the Relief Society General Board held Wednesday, January 13, 1943. The circumstances surrounding the discovery of this valuable picture are very interesting. In September 1942, Elder George Albert Smith, in company with Elder Preston Nibley, stopped off on their way West to visit Nauvoo, Illinois, and nearby places connected with Church history. After visiting in Carthage, the brethren traveled thirteen miles to Colchester to call on the only living grandchild of Lucy Mack Smith and Joseph Smith, Sr., the parents of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This grandchild, Mrs. Clara Hendel, a lady eighty-one years old, is a daughter of the Prophet Joseph's youngest sister, Lucy Smith Milliken. On inquiry from Brother Nibley concerning pictures of members of her family, she showed a colored drawing of Lucy Mack Smith to these gentlemen, which she explained she had found among her mother's effects. Elder George Albert Smith assured the members of the family that he would greatly appreciate having a copy of the picture. They replied that they would procure a copy and mail it to him. A colored copy was received by Elder Smith in November, which is the picture he has so graciously presented to the Relief Society. The Relief Society is very appreciative of the gift and is happy to have a picture of this very remarkable mother, Lucy Mack Smith, who joined the Relief Society at its second meeting and gave counsel and support to the Society while it remained in Nauvoo. Note the Book of Mormon which Lucy Mack Smith holds in her hand, and the picture on the wall above her head of the Facsimile from The Book of Abraham, Pearl of Great Price. The picture was perhaps made during the nine years between 1846-1855. Elder Nibley is of the opinion that it was made during the time she resided with her daughter, Lucy Milliken, as it was found in the possession of Mrs. Milliken's daughter, Mrs. Clara Hendel.
Page 79
Lucy Mack SmithMother of the Prophet Preston Nibley
MOTHERHOOD is said to be the greatest honor that can be bestowed upon womankind in this world. The act of bringing forth an immortal spirit, clothed with a mortal body, is a woman's crowning achievement. Comparatively few women are denied this accomplishment. But only once in many hundreds of years is the privilege given to a woman to become the mother of a mighty prophet of God, whose life and labors are to change the destiny of a waiting world. Such an honor was bestowed upon Lucy Mack Smith, whose new-found portrait is reproduced as the frontispiece in this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. It was on July 8, 1776, that a daughter was born to Solomon and Lydia Mack, prosperous farming people of Gilsum, New Hampshire. In the home of these good parents Lucy was reared, with all the refinement and culture known to the inhabitants of western New England at that time. Before she had reached her twentieth birthday, Lucy had met and married a young farmer from Tunbridge, Vermont, named Joseph Smith. Joseph has been described to us as a tall, athletic, young man, an able and willing worker, kind and considerate, "opening his house to all who were needy and destitute." Lucy has told us that at the time of her marriage her husband "owned a handsome farm." She has also related that as a wedding dowry she was presented with a check for $1,000 by her brother Stephen and his business partner. Life began favorably for Joseph and Lucy Smith, yet little did they dream of the strange and extraordinary events which were before them, events which were to lift their names from obscurity into undying fame. Economically Joseph and Lucy Smith were not to prosper in this world. Through misfortune they soon lost their farm, and for a number of years they became tenant farmers in New Hampshire and Vermont. It was while renting a farm from Mrs. Smith's father, Solomon Mack, in Sharon Township, Vermont, that their fourth child and third son was born, named Joseph, Jr. Failing to reestablish themselves in Vermont, Joseph Smith moved his family to western New York in 1815, and located at Palmyra. Here and in the adjacent vicinity they remained for fifteen years. Here the boy Joseph announced his First Vision in the spring of 1820; here he told of the visit of the angel Moroni and the finding of the sacred record, and here the Book of Mormon was printed. Lucy Smith and her husband became the first believers in the visions and revelations which were vouchsafed to their youthful son. And with unsurpassed loyalty and devotion they stood by him in all his efforts to found "the Church and
LUCY MACK SMITH
Kingdom of God."
They endured all manner of persecution: the scorn of the world, loss of friends, loss of property, and physical persecution, such as being forced to leave their home in Missouri in the midst of winter and flee across the snow-clad prairies to Illinois. Yet not once did they complain; not once did they lose faith in the divine calling of their son.
When the Prophet was taken by the mob in Missouri in October, 1838, he was almost immediately sentenced to be shot. "Several guns were fired, and the heartbroken parents supposed that the bloody work was accomplished." Mother Smith thus describes these moments: "Mr. Smith, folding his arms tight across his heart cried out, 'Oh my God! My God!
They have killed my son!
They have murdered him, and I must die, for I cannot live without him."
Through some strange miracle the lives of Joseph and Hyrum were spared at this time.
They were carried to Richmond for trial and from thence to Liberty. "At their departure from Far West, the heart-stricken mother pressed through the crowd to the wagon containing her sons, exclaiming: 'I am the mother of the Prophet: is there not a gentleman here who will assist me to that wagon, that I may take a last look at my children, and speak to them once more before I die?' With her daughter Lucy, she gained the wagon and grasped Joseph's hand, which was thrust between the cover and the wagon-bed, but he spoke not to her until she said: 'Joseph, do speak to your poor mother once more. I cannot bear to go until I hear your voice.' At this he sobbed out: 'God bless you, mother; and while his sister Lucy was pressing a kiss on his hand, the wagon dashed off." (Jenson, Andrew, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Vol. 1. P. 691) On September 14, 184