[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: SUMMER VACATION | Author: Unknown]

SUMMER VACATION

	We are drawing near the summer vacation.
The schools, academies and universities are
about closing, or have already finished the last
semester and have held their graduating ex- 
ercises. The teachers have distributed their
prizes for essays, readings and speeches, and
normal students received their certificates, the
valedictory has been read by some talented
young lady in white, with soft creamy lace
and a flutter of ribbons, and the usual excla-
mation from the young men “how pretty,”
and so forth, and the farewells have been gone
through, some tears shed and a great many
kisses exchanged (among the girls, of course),
with fervent promises to write often. Possibly 
some of these students need a vacation and a
 rest—but there are many others, too, who need
it as much, and it may be more,—people who
need to recruit after long and steady applica-
tion to business. Does any one need change 
and rest more than the mother, the wife, the
one to whom all the household look for every
comfort in the home? And yet how often it
happens that she, self-forgetful, is left to pick
up and put away, to repair and re-arrange,
while other members of the family go pleasur-
ing “over the hills and far away.” Well, so
it is, and so it will be until women think of
their own health and the necessity of econo-
mizing strength, nerve force, and brain power
that they may prolong their own lives, which
is quite as noble as to sacrifice them to the 
selfishness of others.
	But leaving this vexed question of the 
rights of mothers for future discussion we will 
go back to the topic—summer vacation
People of leisure go to the seaside, or into the
mountains, to escape the heat and dust, to rest
weary mind and over wrought brain; to loiter
on the beach and catch the soft, invigorating
sea breeze, occasionally “gathering shells” or

[Column 2]
writing in the sand, humming rhymes and
ballads that have immortalized the seashore
as well as the poet who wrote them perchance
far away from the seashore itself; or, wander
among the hills, resting in shady nooks and
dells, soothed by the songs of birds and often
startled by the glare of some handsome serpent 
and here methinks one might moralize, for
there are a sort of serpents whose charms are
not only poisonous but fatal, who frequent
summer resorts, but we will let that pass now,
and only speak of tired people and their
places of resting, while they breathe in with
summer idleness intoxicating draughts of
heavy fragrance, sweet with all the sweets of
woods and shrubs and flowery perfumes. These
seekers of pleasure, try to forget the toils and 
bustle of the cumbrous, noisy machinery of 
active business life, and often care not even
for the daily papers, but amuse themselves in
various idle ways, as though life had no higher
aim than to banish care. It maybe that to
linger thus in some secluded spot, amid the
beautiful, near nature’s heart, passive if not
forgetful, exhilarates and strengthens the mind
as well as the body for the harder, fiercer con-
flicts wieh which all must sometime contend
unless life be like a smooth,  summer sea with-
out scarce a ripple; but our lines here are not
usually so serene and placid, we wot not what
the future may be, but are happier in believ-
ing that we shall not be weary there in the
“great beyond,’’ that all tears will be wiped
away, that the flowers will bloom forever and
summer will be eternal, and pleasures never
pall, 
	‘‘Here summer hath its heavy cloud,
		The rose leaf must fall, 
	But in that home joy wears no shroud,
		Never doth it pall."
But while we remain in this probation we are
very susceptible to annoyance and excitement
some perhaps more than others,  but all more
or less, and there are many ups and downs,
hard knocks and hurtful wounds, that need
careful and tender treatment, and consequently
we need help, self-help that comes from forces
well developed and thoughts well defined; and
we need to have self control, and to have this
concentrated power, there must be an equil-
librium, a self poise that can only be attained
when all the vast machinery of the human
system works harmoniously; no organ,  no
function must be out of tune, or discord will be
the inevitable result.
	Following this course of reasoning, it must
be true that those who take proper rest and
recreation are best fortified for every emer-
gency and can endure greater strain of mental
and physical power and still maintain a dignity
of balance, a placidity or solidity that those
over-taxed and over-worked are not equal to.
These summer vacations may leave or create
a reserve force for future consumption that is
not supplied to those who keep up an incessant
and continuous labor year after year, wearing 
away the vitality that if frugally used might
prolong life and usefulness. However circum-
stances, control these summer vacations with a
large class of people. Some event transpires
that gives time and opportunity for the relief
nature requires, and thus without planning and
exertion the needed relief or pastime comes.
We call this chance, and yet we cannot but
feel that in the great struggle for mastery right
 ometimes conquers might in unseen ways,


[Column 1]
and the rest so essential to the ardent worker
comes unsought as though some good angel had
his welfare at heart and made the necessary
arrangements.  Sometimes wealth inclines its
fortunate possessor to seclude himself from the
“dear five hundred friends” that throng around
and fawn and smile upon him, and with a
favored few he resorts to some locality where
he is unknown, that he may be for a short time
at least at his ease, and act himself without the
restraints of “polite society,” in the sense that
Madam Grundy applies the term.
	Then another class still must strain every
nerve in order to afford the time to take a run
out of town, to clamber over hills, or sit by the
side of the winding stream to fish a little, mus-
ing meanwhile, and only starting into remem-
brance of the occupation when there is a bite;
working harder for weeks and days beforehand
to get ahead with business, and after returning
to make up for what is termed “lost time.” To
such the pleasure scarce compensates for the
toil, and yet it is after all, a change from the
constant monotony of everyday work.  Happy
are they who have means and opportunities to
spend a few weeks of the dry summer months
in some pleasant manner, that will awaken
latent powers, refresh memory, and develop
greater activity and freshness of body and
mind, thus prolonging life and increasing use-
fulness.  Why should we not make the most
of our life here upon earth?  It is in this wise
if we live nobly, that we will fit ourselves for
the greatest and highest advancement hereafter.
We are told by students of health, hygiene, and
philosophy, that we must take plenty of rest
and out door air as well as exercise, to store
our minds with knowledge and intelligence, for
we all know how incapable of accomplishing
any great good is a person deprived of healthy
activity, with a positive lack of nerve force
and the innate power to overcome difficulties
and to rise superior to misfortunes or unhappy
circumstances.
	Country air is healing, generally speaking,
and the great contrast to city life is so widely
apparent that one soon feels the difference.
The habits of country people, their “sweet
simplicity” and homely ways are so genuine
and natural, that one feels much benefit from
the contact, and an experience in studying
character that develops another phase of
human life, and adds to the stock of information
on a subject which is always interesting. 
	It is said everywhere, and it seems to me by
everybody, that this is a fast age, things move
rapidly and the people seem more in a hurry.
It is the age of new and strange inventions
all of them tending to rapidity, and approach-
ing a greater degree of excellence in attain-
ment to whatever they represent.  Yet though
much of the hard labor once done without
machinery of any kind, can now be accom-
plished by some of these new inventions, and
thus much human strength saved; yet there
seems to be plenty of work for all the workers,
and people seem quite as weary nowadays as
formerly.  It makes one wonder what it all
means.  I suppose there must be just as much
time as there ever was, that is, days are twenty-
four hours long, and every hour contains sixty
minutes, and each minute sixty seconds, but
one can scarcely believe it when this spirit of
hurrying gets possession of him.  There are
to be sure a good many idlers, not those who
need rest, but who live idle lives all the year
around, and perhaps this is one of the reasons
why the diligent laborers have so much more
to do, and can seldom get even a summer
vacation of a week or two.  Idleness is a vice
but not considered a crime, that is, before the
law (and law is gospel in these days, so some
people think), although it often leads to it, but
some people live a long life of idleness at the
expense of faithful industry on the part of
relatives or friends.  Referring to the country
[Column 2]
and summer, inevitably carries me backward
to the merry days when I was a little country
girl, and wandered among the hills gathering
wild-wood flowers, and sang as I rambled,

"Flowers; wild-wood flowers, in a sheltered dell they grew,
I hurried along and I chanced to spy
This small staff flower with a silvery eye,—
Then the blue daisy peeped up its head 
Sweetly the purple orchis spread.”

And so on, and on.  I roamed in the deep
forests like a very wood nymph and thought
like the poet,

	‘‘That Nature hides her very loveliest things
	Deep in the heart of woods." 

And by the ponds I gathered often, I have
since thought at the risk of my life, the water
lilies, pond lilies we children called them, the
same poet quoted above, says:

	"Yes! e’en those lilies, simple as they are,
	And beautiful as well—are quite beyond 
	The reach of careless fingers.  Would one grasp 
	Their od’rous beauty one must wade far out,
	Regardless of the flags and tall rough sedge,
	And ferns, and rushes harsh, that fringe the edge.”

	But I am much afraid my taste for country
pleasures prolongs this article beyond the
patience of the reader, but if he or she be
tired, and over-worked, let him or her take a
summer’s vacation and camp out in the cañons
it will whet the appetite and do more for the
nerves than all the doctors’ medicine.  The
languor of these beautiful summer days really
makes one desire to rest a little, and to in-
dustrious, indefatigable workers, such rest as
one may find among brooks and birds and
mossy rocks and shady dells would be a stimu-
lus more potent and exhilarating than the city
can offer in the way of luxury or recreation. 
