THE GOSPEL AT HOME.
	The city at the present time is thronged with
people, tourists in quest of curiosities, and infor-
mation, speculators in pursuit of gain and the
variety of kinds and sorts of people that make
up a great part of the multitude that throng the
streets and by-ways, and make one feel that this
is no longer the model city of the Saints, built in
the valleys of the mountains for them only, but
that all nations are flocking thereunto, in fulfill-
ment of prophecy, which is perfectly familiar to
those who study the Scriptures, but is sometimes
not remembered when one is absorbed in daily
duties. Does not the Bible say Zion shall be es-
tablished in the tops of the mountains and all
nations shall flow unto her? And yet some of us
complain when it begins to come to pass.
	During the last few weeks especially many
hundreds of visitors have come to Salt Lake and
have driven round in a carriage or wandered at
will here and there, and many have found their
way into the Office of the EXPONENT, and with
or without introduction have sought to open up
conversation on the subject of Utah, her politics,
the late election, the condition of the people and
the future prospects. Generally they are very
ignorant upon the matters they are so anxious to
discuss, although occasionally some are better
iuformed as relates to the settlement of these
valleys and the thrift and industry of the people
if not in regard to their religion.
	Many are quite unacquainted with the laws of
1882 and 1887 that have caused such a difference
in the circumstances of this people, and are sur-
prised when informed of facts connected with
what has been done in cases that have come be-
fore the courts and the decisions that have been
given. It is indeed true that intelligent people
of these United States even, taken as a whole
know comparatively little of Mormonism its
origin and history, and the Gospel which this
people have embraced, and for which they have
left their homes and possessions, and wandered
into the wilderness where they hoped to find that
peace and security that had been denied to them
within the limits of civilization.
	It may well be said this people have a history,
and as is often remarked a peculiar history; they
have been denominated a modern Israel and the
name is an appropriate and significant one. The
people of the earth are assuredly flocking to Zion;
they come singly and in large parties, and they
inquire concerning this and that, and there is a
good opportunity to give information on Gospel
subjects.  Everything pertaining to what is called
“Mormonism,” is more and more talked of day
by day, and surely this people have need of wis-
dom to meet all reasonable questions, and give
comprehensive answers in brief,to those who have
only a few minutes time in passing through, that


a good impression may be made, for truth is al-
ways strong; and if possible scatter a little of the
seed of the Gospel, praying that it may fall on
good ground. Thus a small portion of missionary
work may be done here at home as well as
abroad if we take this view of the matter. Men
who are now gone from our midst have
prophesied as the writer is well aware that the
highly educated people of the world should come
to the Saints for knowledge concerning this peo-
ple, and those who occupy high positions of
honor among the nations of the world, and this is
coming to pass, and there will be more of this
in the future.


[Column 1]

