ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Minutes of a Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake, which con-
vened at Pima, Sunday, Feb. 23rd 1890, at 10
a. m. Pres. Wilmerth East presiding.
	Stake Pres. C. Layton and Coun. Wm.
Johnson were present. Meeting opened by
singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer offered by Bishop Joseph Cluff of
Central Ward. Singing "Let Zion in her
beauty rise." Pres. East made a few opening
remarks expressing her pleasure in meeting in
Relief Society Conference. Was sorry to report
so much sickness in the ward, and encouraged
the sisters in attending to the sick that none
might suffer.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved, after which Coun. Mary
L. Ransom spoke a short time on the duties of
the sisters in caring for the sick. Knew from
personal observation that our aged and worthy
leader Elizabeth Burns, in connection with
her Counselors, had labored diligently, when
not detained at home with sickness in their
own families, to relieve the wants of those
afflicted. Sister Ransom's greatest mission
was in properly clothing the dead and prepar-
ing them to be laid away.
	Pres. Layton said: "I am thankful for the
favorable circumstances by which we are sur-
rounded. Although the attendance is small I
feel there is a reasonable excuse." Believed
the sisters had done their duty in caring for
the sick, and should there be any censure
upon them let it be spedily removed; and God
will continue to bless them as He has in the
past. We must bow the knee and serve the
Lord with a full determination to do His bid-
ding, that we may be worthy of His blessings.
There are those among us who, when in health
forget their God, yet they expect the same
blessing and protecting care in the hours of
adversity, as those who fear Him and keep His
commandments. This Gospel is no fable
neither the Relief Society. The duties resting
upon the sisters in these organizations are
many, and I know they are diligent in their
labors. Prayed that they might continue so
and that the sickness and disease might be
stayed in our midst. Singing "Oh my
Father." Prayer by Coun. Wm. Johnson.
	Afternoon services resumed at 1 o'clock with
the usual opening exercises of singing and
prayer. A very interesting and instructive
letter from Stake Coun. Cyrena Merrill, who
resides at St. David, was read by the Secre-
tary. The stake and local reports were also
read, after which the following branches of
the R. S. were verbally reported by their re-
spective officers, Thatcher, Layton, Central
and Pima. Each bearing a faithful testimony
to the divinity of the Gospel, and expressed a
willingness to perform the labors assigned
them. Four others were not reported.
	Pres. East said, "If we do not cultivate the
spirit of the Gospel, how can we impart the
same unto our children, who have chosen to
come here to receive this training in order to
prepare them for an inheritance in the king-
dom of God, and to develop the faith in their
young and tender minds." Prayed that the
power of God might rest down upon us in

[Column 3]

full abundance and stay the plagues and
disease in our midst.
	Sister Rhoda Foster spoke a short time ad-
vancing many subjects of interest which, in
their nature, were calculated to encourage us
in keeping the covenants we have made.
	Coun. Elizabeth Layton of Thatcher Ward,
said she felt as well or better in the principles
of the Gospel to day than ever. Her desire
was to live in such a way as to be able to
rear her children to become honorable mem-
bers in the Church. Implored the blessings
of heaven upon us.
	Coun. Wm. Johnson was thankful to know
there were those who still had a desire to
keep the commandments of God, and stand
firm in the principles of their most holy re-
ligion. We believe in the day spoken of by
the Prophets of old, when sickness, disease and
plagues shall be scattered broadcast among
us. We should therefore, see the necessity of
living near unto the Lord that we may claim
protection at His hands. The time is now at
hand when the dividing line will be drawn and
the hypocrits and traitors in Zion will be
known.
	Pres. Layton exhorted the Presidents of the
different branches of the Relief Society in the
Stake to be alive to their duties, care for the
sick and distressed in Zion, and seek first the
kingdom of God and all else will be added.
Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	The names of the Stake and Local officers
were presented before the conference and
unanimously sustained. Conference adjourned
for three months the place of meeting to be
here after designated. The congregation arose
and sang Doxology. Prayer by Coun. Wm.
Johnson.
