DEAR SISTER:
	You ask me what I think of Isaiah 46—4th,
well, I think that to you and I, it is one of the
most precious promises contained in God’s word.
In this passage the Lord gives us positive proof
that it is not only the young, the energetic or
those who can accomplish the most (He is all
that such can need) but He knows that when we
begin to feel the weight of years, when our energy
flags and our spirits sink and we wonder how it
will be with us when we get too infirm to manage
for ourselves, when “the years draw nigh that we
shall say—I have no pleasure in them”—“when
the almond tree shall flourish and the grass-
hopper shall be a burden,” when the “Silver
cord is ready to be loosed and the golden bowl
broken,” He knows that then, we need special
help and special encouragement and therefore
He says—“Even to old age I am He;” what
does He mean by that, but that He is the same
God that He always has been? From before the
foundation of the world He has chosen us to
come upon this earth in these latter days to per-
form the work He has assigned us, and from the
time we drew our first breath-He has watched
over us and provided for us, and He is an un-
changeable God—He does not mean that we
shall be left to ourselves just when we most need
His help, but He says—“Even to your old age I
am He”—the same God,  "the same yesterday, to
day and forever.”
	But notwithstanding these words of encourage-
ment, our faith is sometimes ready to fail and we
have to cry out with Peter “Lord save me.” And
then He comes to us with these precious words
of promise, “Even to hoary hairs will I carry
you.” Oh what condescension on the part of our
Heavenly Father to promise us that when we can-
not go by ourselves, He will “carry” us. And as
though He would reason with us in our weakness
He says, “I have made, and I will bear;” as much
as to say—Do you think that I have made you
and sent you upon this earth and provided for
you and watched over you all these years for no
other purpose than for you to end your days in
despair? No, your soul is precious in my sight
and I cannot afford that one made in my image
and has faithfully served me shall be cast away;
and He further assures us by placing a double
emphasis upon the promise and He again declares
“I will even carry and deliver you.”
	Now dear sister can you imagine anything
more encouraging, more condescending on the
part of our Heavenly Father? We know how
tenderly an earthly parent will carry the helpless
infant, or the sick child who through suffering has
not sufficient strength left to walk alone, and the
tenderness of our Heavenly Father far exceeds
that of an earthly parent. We who have lived
the allotted time for man upon this earth, know
what it is to have our sensitive feelings wounded
by the thoughtlessness of the young, the giddy
and the gay, who are so apt to think the aged of
but little consequence, and we are often driven to
the footstool of our Father to ask Him for


patience to bear all we meet with in our path
through life.  And when we go to Him weary of
the world and everything in it, does He spurn us
from His presence? No, He does not.  Does
He tell us to come at a more convenient season?
No, but He rather says—Let your heart be strong
my child—“Fear not I am with thee, I will
strengthen thee.” ‘ Wait thou only upon God.” And
when your strength utterly fails, “I will carry you
and deliver you.”
	Well dear sister, old age has to bear with much
that is painful, but I question whether those who
are grasping after the world and its doubtful satis-
faction, can know one tenth of the blessedness of
those hidden lives that are quietly but sincerely
serving God and who will at last be “brought
home as a shock of corn fully ripe,” to the
heavenly garner.
	We are, as you say, very imperfect, neverthe-
less let us keep fast hold of the “Rod of Iron”
which leads to the “Tree of Life,” and then shall
we be able to lay claim to the blessings promised
to the faithful.
	Let our prayer be “Now also when I am old
and gray headed, O, God forsake me not."  We
are safe in His hands for this God is our God
for ever and ever, He will be our guide even
unto death.”  There is light beyond.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
