ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the St.
John's Stake held at St. Johns Mar. 7, 1890.
On the stand were Apostles J. H. Smith and
F. M. Lyman, the Stake Presidency, the Presi-
dent of the branches of the Relief Society of
the Stake and one Counselor. Pres. E L. S.
Udall announced the hymn and the congrega-
tion sang, "We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet." After prayer was offered and
another hymn sung Pres E. L. S. Udall made
some opening remarks expressing gratitude for
the privilege of meeting in conference again,
but regretted not having an opportunity of
visiting the branches in all the wards since our
last conference, and referred briefly to the
great amount of sickness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard during the past few months.
	Reports were read by the Secretary, officers
of the Central Board and Stake presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at considerable
length instructing the Saints on a variety of
subjects among which were, that the Pres. of
the Stake should see that there is a way pro-
vided whereby the presidency of the R. S. can
visit each local Society in the Stake. For
what purpose the Relief Society was organi-
zed. The word of wisdom was earnestly ad-
vocated as a means of promoting health and
happiness also of lengthening life. Speaking
of labor he said: "man and woman should
avoid overwork and heavy lifting but the man
who earns his bread by the sweat of his brow
is the happiest of all men and the woman who
performs the labor God designed for her is the
happiest of all women.
	Apostle J. H. Smith in his remarks said:
"the object of life is to learn to live. We hope
to live eternally therefore we should seek to
make our lives as happy as possible and diffuse
happiness among our associates. Some seem
to be continually miserable and wish to make
every one around them the same. In the be-
ginning God ordained that man should earn
his bread by the sweat of his brow. He un-
derstood that labor was essential to happiness.
It the mind is not engaged with the responsi-
bilities of life the effect is disastrous, man will
become vicious. "The idle brain is the devil's
workshop." In the early days of this Church

[Column 2]

there was a law that the idler should be dealt
with so there should be none idle among the
people. The more man is permitted to waste
his time the greater amount of evil will be in
his heart, and God designed that we should
shun the vices of the world that we may have
long life and be useful.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Con-
gregation sang, "The spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Benediction by Pres. D. K.
Udall.
