EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
[MANUSCRIPT PAPER P. A. PROVO.]
	As I have been called upon by your presi-
dent to edit the first paper of this kind a feel-
ing of diffidence comes over me, and I feel to
ask the prayers and confidence of my sisters,


and the dear children, that I may be inspired
to read the true sentiments, of my dear sisters
in the spirit in which they were written, for
we know that the letter is dead unless inspired
by the spirit of God.
	When we reflect upon the strange surround-
ings in which we as a people are placed, we
can readily see that it is necessaey to be alive
to our duties, and not neglect a moment in
which we can improve our minds, and gain
more faith in our Heavenly Father, for what
occupation upon this earth is more pleasing to
him; is it not to bring souls unto Him? Then
can there be any labor more pleasant for a
daughter of Zion, than to train these beautiful
children, to remain pure and true, and to be
ever walking in the fear of God. I think not.
Sometimes we hear the Christian say that his
constant companion is his Holy Bible.  This
is well, but here we have children whose spirits
have come from that great God in whose image
they have been created, their souls are pure
their minds are free from deceit, therefore
should any one desire more interesting society
than that of children; they will ennoble our
souls, enlarge our hearts, and aid us in be-
coming perfect like unto the Gods.
	When reading the pride that some people
take in the different employment by which
they are trying, to excel their neighbor, and
become perfect, they will work night and day
and will not leave their work for the weather
to spoil, or the work of another hand to soil,
but toil on till their aim is attained. Do we
as Latterday Saints take such care and pride
with our children this sacred trust? Should we
leave our children one moment, without know-
ing their surroundings are pure. How can a
true parent enjoy any pursuit in this life, with-
out knowing his children to be fortified against
the sins which are imbibed by evil habits. Our
children are our eternal blessings. All other
earthly treasures may crumble to dust; but our
children’s souls are immortal, they are ours, if
we do our duty towards them and God.
						Sarah E. Cluff.


