LINES.
[ON THE DEATH OF GEORGE ROY MILLER]
	Inscribed to the bereaved parents by L. M.
Hewlings.
	We thought the precious one our own,
		Nor deemed the gift to us but lent;
	That thus we must be left to mourn,
		In grief to murmur and lament,
	The absence of our darling boy.
		Whose presence gave such glad delight,—
	Now, all is changed since our dear Roy,
		Has vanished from our yearning sight.

	We loved him as a human child,
		Given to us to keep and hold,
	Nor dreamed he must from earth depart,—
		Restored unto the upper fold.
	Vainly we watch and wait to greet
		Smiles that would make sad hearts rejoice,
	For the sound of pattering feet
		And the merry musical voice.
	We weep above the precious form,
		Laid in the bosom of the earth,
	We cannot trace the spirit born,
		Into the realms of heavenly birth.

	Look up sad mourners thro' your tears,
		Your Roy, has gone from sin and blight,
	Without the weight of weary years,
		He lives! an angel in God's sight.


[Column 1]
﻿AN INTERESTING VISIT.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I take this opportunity of informing you,
and our numerous readers, of the welfare and
general feeling of your sisters; and a synopsis
of our visit to the several wards of this Co.,
(Emery), hoping it may be interesting to you.
	As a new year is before us, and wishing to
make a good start in filling the requirements
made of us, and help others with words of
cheer, we left our homes Wednesday Jan. the
15th, traveling north by sleigh, the weather
was cold and clear, but thanks to our driver
who knew just how to make ladies comfortable,
(and here let me add in a Woman's Rights
man) we had an enjoyable ride, reaching
Huntington in time for supper, intending to
hold meeting there that night; but on account
of our notice not reaching its destination (a
case that frequently occurs), and as there was
to be a party that evening, of course we post-
poned our meeting. We decided to go on to
Price the next morning and hold a meeting at
that place, and meet with the sisters of Hunt-
ington on our return. We spent a very nice
evening at Sister Pulsipher’s, making prepara-
tions for the coming trip and hoping the morn
would be like the preceding one, According
to your faith so it shall be for,
[Column 2]

	“See! the night wears away and cheerful morn
	All sweet and fresh, spreads from the rosy east,
	Fair nature seems revived, and e'en my heart
	Sits light and jocund at the day's return."

	After a hasty breakfast we begin loading
ourselves with wraps, and when once again
ensconced in our sleigh our photo's if taken
would compare very favorable with the natives
of Lapland, the only thing lacking, we had
horses instead of reindeers, but we were com-
fortable and that was all that was needed.
Those who have traveled the road from Hunt-
ington to Price need no description of it,and I
do not think the writer would be able to give you
an intelligent description, for with her, locality
is at a very low ebb. After traveling over hill
and dale and occasionally a deep "wash" I at
last had the courage to ask if we were not near
our destination, imagine my surprise when I 
was met by the astonishing reply that we were
only half way, but as the longest lane has a 
turn, and as the sun was bidding the earth
adieu for the day we arrived at our destina-
tion. We found the sisters anxious to do all
that was required of them, and were met by a 
warm reception.
	Our return trip was some what tiresome but
we felt that we were on a mission of exhortation
and mercy,and although the weather was such as
to dampen the ardor under any other circum-
stances we enjoyed ourselves admirably; after
returning home we continued our trip south-
ward as far as Emery, (formerly known as the
Muddy) there we assisted in effecting the re-
organization of the Relief Society of that
place. In visiting among the sisters we im-
proved the opportunity of agitating the suff-
rage cause, and insisting upon all to become
acquainted with its great aim, also to patronize
the EXPONENT, and keep pace with the times.
	It takes courage to live, and if we are be-
hind both temporally and spiritually it makes
the struggle so much harder, but God is on
our side and if we do not attain to the rights
He intended and that the Constitution of this
Great Republic guaranteed we should enjoy,
we know that all the enemy can do will be
for the perfecting of Zion. Let us then draw
nearer together doing good, speaking an en-
couraging word to all who stand in need, and 
make for ourselves a record, helping to further
the purposes of our Father who sent us, and 
who holds the destiny of man in His hand.
And further more let me add, successs to the 
EXPONENT, may it enter many homes and
have power to allay prejudice, and show the
“Mormon” women in their true light to the
fair-minded women of the Nation, and if there
are any rights we do not enjoy, our husbands
feel it as keenly as we, for they believe in 
woman's advancement, and had they the power
the women of Utah would have the right of
franchise. Sisters let us rally to with renewed
energy, and pray that the sweet spirit of peace
may be in the Relief Society throughout all
the land, and do the good that our Father in-
tended. Wishing you all a year of peace and
happiness, I am yours in love.
					JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville March 3rd 1890.


