Grace shall be given thy strength to renew
	Over the hills, are the "Gardens of God."
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


[Column 1]
		    A MIND PICTURE.
	As I commenced the journey of life, I saw
two roads, one led off to the right, the other to
the left. These roads met at the beginning
but as you advanced on them, they widened
and the farther you went on either of them
the more distant you were from the other.  So
distant your eye could not discern the opposite
one. As I looked where the two roads met,
there stood guides. The one on the right
was dressed in white apparel, his countenance
beamed with love and good will, he spoke to
the few that looked and were inclined to take
the right path, he smiled and in tones of sweet
accent he said to them fellow travelers pass on.
All this time at the left a dark figure stood
waving his wand for them to come his way.
Beyond where he stood looked dark and dreary
and they took no notice. I looked again to
see if any headed this dark one and the path
he stood on. The vision of my mind was
opened and I saw a great number of people
standing in the narrow passage where the
roads met. The guide in white raiment was
describing to them the great blessings, the
many joys, the happiness aud peace, and
eternal rest they would find as they traveled be-
yond to the right. Said he, pointing his
finger “that is the straight and narrow path
that leads to life eternal. Those who take
the first steps on this path and do not turn
back need never retrace them. There is a
tree growing by the road side, watered by
clear crystal streams of water that flow from
a heavenly fountain, that is called the tree of
life, and you can eat of the fruit and live for-
ever. As you walk steadily on the way, the
light of the holy spirit enlightens the path
whose brilliancy never becomes dim, and by
its light you walk on to eternal day."
	Some few seemed to doubt his word, they
stood and listened and were convinced and
passed on to the right. Then I saw multi-
tudes giving heed to the dark figure and press-
ing on the dark and misty broad road. Their
countenances bespoke a strong will and de-
termination not to heed the voice of the guide
clothed in white. Then he raised his voice so
that all could hear and in clear decisive tones
said, “if you take that dark and broad path to
the left you will soon get discouraged,there are
artificial lights on the way but dark passages
that have not a glimmer of light; the road, is
rough and rocky, thorns, thistles and briers
grow by the way, stagnant pools of water that
are not fit to drink you find there, you become
thirsty care-worn and you see no hope nor
any way to escape besetting evils or sudden
death.” I listened as they traveled on this
road and heard voices in the distant darkness
exclaiming, "Oh! why was I born and fated
to be thus perplexed, I see nothing but sorrow
and disappointment, I was born to misery and
woe.  Why could not I have been predesti-
nated to have peace and happiness, joy and
contentment, I have it not in this dark and
dreary world.” They murmured on, became
[Column 2]
more foolish, betook themselves to folly and
vice. Silence, was echoed in the ditance, as
Justice stood with a balance in his hand to
weigh the actions of men, said he, “the agency
of mankind is theirs and this makes them
responsible for their acts, he who instructed
you to take the right hand road you heeded
not, was it not your own fault when it was
placed within your reach, to choose good or
evil; you followed the dark guide through the
broad road that leads to destruction and gave
no heed to the guide on whose breast plate
was written Truth." Then I heard cries of
distress, weeping and wailing. Mercy stood
forth in their midst with outstretched arms to
lead the erring ones back to the right path,
but those who had gone on before them could
not be overtaken.
