HEPHZIBAH.
XVIII.
	The little schoolhouse shelter’d' neath a hill,
		And troops of children playing rouud the door; 
	A morn in June serene, and calm, and still:
		Sweet picture in fond mem’ry evermore.
	Hephzibah Hathaway went through the ex-
amination as she always did that sort of thing
with outward composure though her  heart
beat wildly and she fancied Mr. M. must hear
it; she trembled a little when he asked her to
write a line or two; that he might judge of
her penmanship and he added “anything you
like Miss Hathaway.” She recalled a copy given
her at school, that had made quite an impres-
sion upon her at the time, and she wrote with-
out a moment’s hesitation, “A man may smile
and smile and yet be a villain,” and handed
the paper to Mr. M. who smiled shrewdly as he
said, “why did you write that?” “It was the
first thing I thought of isn’t it correctly quot-
ed?” “Yes and it’s a true saying and one
all pretty girls should remember.” “I shall
never forget that copy” said Hepsie, “Nor the
lesson it teaches?” added the gentleman, “For
that I don’t know;” “I trust you will never
have a practical lesson on the subject” replied
the grave and scholarly man, and forthwith
proceeded without comment to write out the
certificate. All this time a tumult was going
on in Hepsie’s heart and head, for the quiet
demeanor of Mr. M. throughout the interview
left her in doubt as to the result. He moved
towards her and as she rose to meet him, he
handed the official paper, and said “My child
you are the youngest applicant for the situa-
tion of a teacher I have ever examined; but
I have no hesitation in saying you are quali-
fied for the position, and your courage is ex-
traordinary for one of your years.”
	Hepsie felt she was not so brave as Mr. M.
imagined, for she dare not look at the certifi-
cate until she was out of sight of the house
where she had undergone such a mental strain.
	A few minutes drive brought her to the gate of
a similar old farm house to the one she had
just left; spacious and embowered in shrubbery,
with great elm trees outside that reminded
her of those at her dear old grandfather’s and
the past came back to her with vivid force.
A very prim elderly lady came out to meet
her, with such a sweet face and a motherly
welcome which made her completely at ease.
“Poor child” she said “how delicate you do
look to come here to teach the rough country


boys and girls, many of them bigger than you,
and likely older." Mrs. Pearce meantime led
the way in through the open door and hall and
showed her the great, square room with the white
muslin curtains and a snowy counterpane on
the comfortable looking bed so homelike, but,
Hepsie paused on the threshold a moment and
gazed on the sanded floor—her detestation, it
always set her teeth on edge, the good lady
did not observe it, then she saw the fire-place
filled with fresh green boughs' and knowing
she would be expected to say something falter-
ingly said "how nice and fresh everything is, I
like an East room" "Yes" said the good lady
"Mr. Beamen told us you were a dainty
little piece and not used to farm folks like us,
and that you objected to boarding round, and 
he wanted us to watch over you, and see that
no “Mormons” came around here; for my part
I dont know nothin about Mormons or what
they,re like.” Hepsie wondered what she ought
to say but silence seemed the only way to avoid
questioning, and she manifested no interest
whatever, though her thoughts were busy with
conjectures as to what it all meant. Was she
then to be watched like a prisoner? she could 
not comprehend it. 
	She inquired the way to the schoolhouse
and Mrs P. offered to go with her. "I'll go 
down the hill and show you the way, the
children's waitin for you with great bunches
of roses and youngsters this long time."
	Hepsie was relieved when Mrs. P. “pinted
out” the little red schoolhouse and left her to
her own thoughts. The children flocked
around their new teacher with their sweet
"good mornings," and Hepsie entered upon
her new duties with a determination that what-
ever difficulties she might have to encounter,
she would persevere.
	Day after day she pursued her vocation,
and weary and exhausted with her toil to
which she was so unaccustomed, after return-
ing home she would throw herself down upon
the bed and weep, the only outlet she had for
nervousness and pent-up emotions. After rest-
ing a few moments she would wander away
into the beautiful meadows that adjoined the
grounds a part of the "Pearce Farm." The
good old people scarcely knew what to think
of her, "such fancies" the old lady would say
“even wanted me to take the sand off the floor
could’nt stand it, and as for victuals no mat-
ter what we have she only eats like a bird."
Such were some of the comments made to the
neighbors, part of which always reached Miss
Hathaway.
	It was a lonely place the families were
scattered there was no society for Hepsie, and
naturally enough she sauntered about in search
of wild flowers, and the songs of many birds
was the only music. Even on Sunday it was
five miles to the nearest meetinghouse, and
Hepsie did not care to hear the orthodox
minister after having heard the "Mormon
Elders." It was all so tame there was nothing
edifying or elevating in it. She prefered to 
sit in her own room and read, or write and to
take long walks alone; and Farmer Pearce and
his wife were not sectarians made no profess-
ion of religion, and never attended any place
of worship.
	It may well be imagined that a temperament
like Hepsie's could not long endure this mono-
tony, a reaction was bound to follow, she was
restless, teaching children their A. B. C’s or
Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, Reading,
Writing, History and Composition, was not
enough to satisfy an ambition like Hepsie's.
She longed for something more, she had been
used to the companionship of others her equals
and her superiors, her sisters, her mother. Mrs.
Grovsenor and her former teachers had been
an incentive to her, and now she realized how 
much this association of intelligent people had
enriched her life; three months of drudgery, 
[Column 2]
she felt would be so long, how could she en-
dure it, yet she enjoyed the roses, and pinks,
and peonies and even the southern wood in the 
front yard, and the children brought her fresh
wild flowers every day, and the robins sang at
her windows every morning early. Those
were not the days of trains and daily mails,
and Hepsie did not even have the opportunity
of going home on Saturday; in fact there was
really no conveyance, yet she was only ten
miles away. She had never been allowed to
read novels, and all her ideas of love were very
crude, but for want of suitable employment for
the mind, or perhaps a presentiment of the
future, Hephzibah allowed her thoughts to
drift away into the realms of fancy and center
upon love, the girl actually needed some stimu-
lus for a brain like hers, that she could not
find in a country schoolhouse, and its being a
romantic spot, and the time of roses and of 
love she allowed her imagination to anticipate
the coming of a lover. At any rate he came.
It was much like a presentiment. The fields
were gay with lilies and daisies—buttercups
and cowslips besprinkled the meadows. The
groves were tuneful with the songs of birds all
day long and in the midsummer nights, the
whippoorwill and other night-birds made
melody. Fate held out open arms to respond
to the unconscious aspirations of the little
maiden, and while the roses were yet in bloom
and the hay lay fresh in the meadows, she met
him, whom she recognized intuitively to be
connected with her destiny. ’Twas strange,
'twas wonderful aud it was unavoidable. It
came about in such a queer way that poor un-
sophisticated confused Hephzibah could not tell
whether to be glad or sorry, whether it was true
love or only romance, no girl it seemed to her
had ever been wooed in such a fashion.
	Returning from school one hot, sultry
summer's day Farmer Pearce introduced to her
a young man "just from abroad" he said. In
shaking hands with him a peculiar emotion
such as the girl had never before experienced
thrilled through her like an electric shock, or a
warning, or presentiment, and to herself silently
she said "that man has something to do with
my future destiny, my fate."
	Had she avoided him, as she felt inclined to 
do, much deep sorrow might have been spared
her, but who knows if out of this crucible she
was not tested and prepared to enter upon a
higher and grander life-work. The young
people just introduced found many subjects of 
conversation equally interesting to both, and
they talked late into the night. The farmer
and his wife sat and listened as if enchanted.
The door was open toward the grove and the
night-birds sang their clearest, highest notes,
with occasionally a minor key a mournful
sound that seemed to Hephzibah like the note
of sadness mingled with the deepest joy;
Harold the stranger who was both poetical and 
musical in his nature involuntarily repeated
those exquisite lines of Byron’s which so many
lovers have quoted since,

	"It is the hour when from the boughs
	    The nightingale's high note is heard;
	It is the hour when lover's vows
	    Seem sweet in every whispered word."

	This was the first meeting of the young people
but it was most auspicious for Harold fell
desperately in love and did not hesitate to ask
when he could see Miss Hathaway again,before
they parted that midsummer night.


