WOMAN’S CONVENTION AT PROVO.

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Co.,
met in special session on Saturday March 1, at
10 a. m., to elect another President in conse-
quence of the decease of Mrs. M. J. Tanner late
President. Mrs. Electa Bullock First Vice Presi-
dent, in the chair. After singing and prayer be-
ing offered by the Chaplain Mrs. M. Daniels, re-
ports from the vice presidents of the several
towns in the county were heard, and were very
satisfactory indeed, each of the representatives
not only speaking well of the work done, but
proving themselves capable of magnifying the
position assigned to them. We have not space
to enter into detail but feel assured that Utah
County has some very able speakers, who have a
knowledge and appreciation of the subject and
know how to lay it before the public.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates resigned her position as
Secretary, and was nominated and unanimously
sustained as President of the W. S. A. Utah Co.
Mrs. Rebecca Doolan was appointed Secretary to
fill vacancy caused by Mrs. Gates resignation.
Some other business of minor importance was
transacted and Mrs. E. B. Wells gave some
special instruction and the convention adjourned
until 2 p.m. closing exercises,singing; and prayer
by the Chaplain.
	Afternoon session convened Mrs. Bullock still
occupying the chair. After the prayer &c., Mrs.


Lizzie Gillespie rend red in excellent voice and
style “The Star Spangled Banner.” Mrs. Lucy
B. Young spoke on the question of woman’s
rights, and hoped the day would speedily come
when all women including the women of Utah
should enjoy the elective franchise.
	Miss Mabel Thurman recited “Brave Jennie
McNeil,” in an easy and natural manner, and in
pleasing voice.
	Mrs. Caroline B. Pratt then read an address
written by the President Mrs. Tanner just prior
to her demise, which we give below in full.
	Grant Allen in the Fortnightly Review gives
a very pungent article on the woman question.
	He says “if any species or race deserves a con.
tinued existence, then above all other things it is
necessary that the species or race should go on
reproducing itself. Can any person possessing
the slightest claim to intelligent reasoning dispute
that fact. It is a fact above all facts most notably
established. He goes on to review the condi-
tions under which the human race must keep up
its numbers or become extinct, he counts the
children each woman must have in order to keep
the population at normal increase.”
	We are willing to go farther and recognize
God’s first law. When He placed Adam and Eve
on this planet He did not say to them “Now that
I have placed you here I wish you to keep up the
race, and not let the species run out; but He said
"Go forth, multiply, and replenish the earth and
subdue it.” This grand earth was before them to
replenish, that is to fill up and subdue. Here Is
work for man as well as woman. If woman must
replenish, man must subdue and their work was
given them side by side. It could not be sepa-
rated in the natural order of things. Nature has
prepared woman for the burden of maternity, and
man to subdue the earth and make it fruitful for
the support of her and her offspring.
	If things have got somewhat turned, whose
fault is it? Not woman alone, certainly. He
should be a little more lucid on that point and tell
us what it takes to de-feminize a woman. In
countries where she takes her place in the harvest
field or is yoked with the oxen to pull the plow she
is de-feminized? No doubt you will find here
those performing the functions of wife and mother
as well, and she is still not considered out of place
in helping to subdue the earth, but did she rise
up and demand her emancipation, asking for a
voice in the government where she might make
laws that weuld forbid her being yoked with the
beasts of burden, would that de-feminize her?
	Would it weaken the attention of thinking wo-
men from the true problem of their sex to fix it
on side issues of comparative unimportance? Can 
a woman not perceive the true aim of her sex
and pursue also the intellectual capacity her sex
is capable of attaining. He says that in raising
a few children every woman must use up ten or
twelve of the best years of her life. Now I would
say that for twenty or twenty-five of the best
years of a woman’s life she is capable under prop-
er conditions of bearing children. During that
twenty or twenty five years when her womanhood
is most complete and attractive is she capable of
no intellectual advancement? Must she exercise
no other function but the maternal one, and is re-
production the only attribute of the maternal
function? I would assert that it is not, that ma-
ternity demands the highest state of physical and
intellectual cultivation.”
	The above article was merely commenced,when
the writer was taken ill. Had she lived to finish
the article, she would no doubt have met all the
arguments brought forth by the gentleman re-
ferred to.
	Miss Dottie Smoot, sang “The Maid of the
Mill,” in a very happy manner, and in beautiful
voice.
	Prof. Karl G. Maeser addressed the audience
in a most pleasing way, taking the philosophical

[column 2]
view of the subject, thought it would require
great attention by thinking people to come to a
correct solution of the phenomenon. Woman
possessed noble traits of character and it is ex-
pected of her to refine, elevate and assist in re-
deeming man by her influence. The great men of
different ages trace their success back to the
mother’s influence, teaching and training. The
mother’s home duties must not be sacrificed even
to gain the highest attainments. The true
destiny of woman is to be an adviser, without this
safeguard man would be led astray, upon the
good influence and character of woman society
rests in safety. Such conditions cannot be taken
away in safety from any nation. Whenever there
is a great cause at stake and woman takes part in
it, her influence will be felt either for good or
evil.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the next speaker, re-
ferred to the time when women held the elective
franchise in Utah and the educational effect it
produced, thought it right and proper that woman
should stand politically equal with man, gave her
views in regard to co-education and urged the
ladies to study the principles of government
thoroughly, that they might be prepared for the
practical use of the ballot with all the responsibil-
ity it implied when woman suffrage would be
given to the nation.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot gave an interesting account
of the passage of the Bill in the Legislature of
Utah giving suffrage to women. He had the
honor of being a champion of the bill, regretted
to say there was some opposition but it was
finally overcome, through the influence of such
men as his fellow members of the Legislature, the
Hon. Geo. A. Smith and the Hon. Daniel H.
Wells and himself.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates the President of the Asso-
ciation made a few remarks, expressed her appre-
ciation of the honor conferred upon her, alluded
to the position as a mission and felt she would
need the assistance of women and their husbands
in carrying out the methods of educational work
in the direction designed by the organization viz:
the study of municipal, territorial and state gov-
ernments. The topic to be discussed next meet-
ing by the several delegates was “Should women
exercise the elective franchise?” Adjourned sub-
ject to the call of the President. Singing, bene-
diction by Mrs. M. A. Gaddie.


