EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The World's Fair, of 1892 will take place in the
United States to commemorate the discovery of
America. That the part taken by woman in this
discovery shall be more widely known and pro-
perly appreciated, the Queen Isabella Association
was duly incorporated on the 17th day of August,
1889, in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois. In pursuance of this object the Associa-
tion will erect a statue of Isabella of Castile, to
be unveiled at the Fair, and in recognition of
woman’s success in art, have engaged Harriet
Hosmer, the renowned Sculptor, to execute the
work. The Association will also erect the
Isabella Pavilion, in which will be a department
for the exposition of articles commemorative of
Isabella and the discovery of America; a repre-
sentation of the Spanish Court in the time of
Isabella and Ferdinand; and extensive Social
and Business Headquarters for the members of
the Association; thus will be furnished to the
women of all nations special opportunities for re-
ceiving one another socially, and for holding
Conferences on the Industrial and Social prob-
lems of the day, while each Trade, Occupation
and Profession represented in the membership of
the Association will hold one or more conferences
in the Congress Hall of the Pavilion. Every
facility for obtaining information necessary to the
comfort and convenience of visiting members will
be afforded during the fair.
	We have received by courtesy of the publishers
the Double Easter number of the Youth's Com-
panion, Boston, Mass. The writer remembers
with what pleasure when a little girl she received
regularly the Youth's Companion, when child-
ren's papers were very rare in the land. The
Youth's Companion was a very different affair to
what it is at present, but it cannot be more gladly
welcome now with its elaborate illustrations
than it was at that period in its simple form.
Such poetry and such stories "we girls" thought
them the best that could be written. This year's
Easter number is very appropriately embellished
outside with long stems of Easter lilies,and hand-
some pictures adorn the inside pages suited to
the stories and the occasion. The poems are
pure and chaste in style, and descriptive of Easter
subjects as are also the stories. The number is
beautiful in sentiment throughout as well as in
appearance. It is one of the journals of the day
that can be put into the hands of children with
safety. Its writers are among the very best, and
they aim at the cultivation of moral and intel-
lectual purity. "Numbered With Thy Saints,"
by Mary Tappan Wright. "One of the Squire's
Morning's," Laura E. Cushman. "Bim Hazlitt's
Luck," Sophie Swett. "Edith's Easter Offer-
ing," Ada Carleton; all deserve special mention,
and there are many other excellent articles. The
proprietors of the paper deserve great credit for
making the Companion so entertaining for the
Easter holidays.
	Through the courtesy of Dr. John R. Park we
have before us the "Report of the Chancellor of

[Column 2]

the University of Deseret," to the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of Utah. It is in pamphlet
form and contains 40 pages of matter, well ar-
ranged under appropriate headings and sufficiently
minute in detail to satisfy the most exacting. It
contains the reports of the Principals of the
various departments beginning with the Chan-
cellor's letter, the President himself gives a
succinct statement of the institution under the
following headings—Buildings,—Grounds,— De-
partment of Science, Literature and the Arts,—
Normal Department,—Preparatory Department,
—Music,—Art,—Deaf Mute Department,—Mines,
—Mechanic Arts,—Law,-—Library,— Museum,—
Apparatus, etc.— To summarize the financial
needs of the University the Dr. gives approxi-
mate estimates of the funds required. The Nor-
mal Department is definitely reported by its Prin-
cipal Wm. M. Stewart. Preparatory in the same
manner by J. H. Paul. Music Evan Stephens.
Art G. M. Ottinger. Mechanical and Architec-
tual drawing, Wm. Ward. Library Marcus E.
Jones, Librarian. Museum, Marcus E. Jones,
Curator. Custodian and Registrar, D. R. Allen.
Then follows a report of the number of students
for the last half of the Academic year 1887-1888
the year 1888-'89 and the first half of the year
1889-'90, together with the number in each branch
of study. Then the Deaf Mute Department is
specifically reported by the Principal Frank W.
Metcalf. It is a very interesting report as it re-
lates to a subject that every where must receive
special attention, and requires the best thoughts
of the people as well as the best methods of in-
struction,to bring it to the highest attainment pos-
sible and in harmony with other institutions. The
Secretary's Report including salaries etc., closes
the pamphlet. Great credit is due to the founders
of the Deseret University who labored under
such difficulties to establish it, and who helped to
carry it forward when the burden was a heavy
one. That it has been instrumental in a great de-
gree of educating the young people of the Terri-
tory all who are acquainted with facts regarding
the matter know full well. It is the ardent hope
of the writer, that the Deseret University may re-
ceive such substantial aid as will make it still
more helpful to the Territory, and reach the
height of excellence that its original founders an-
ticipated in the beginning of its history.


