SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.

	The evil which appears most liable to develop
out of the modern tendency is a demand for an
imitation of nature—a thing incompatible with
the highest aspiration of art. There is not a
great composer who has not at some time been
tempted to indulge in this tendency. For ex-
ample, Haydn’s imitation of the crowing rooster;
Beethoven’s cuckoo, quail, and nightingale,
and his programme style in the "Pastoral
symphony;" and Mendelssohn’s braying donkey
in the "Midsummer Night's Dream." But
these solitary instances of materialism, although
to be condemned in theory, and exhibiting a
tendency which was in general condemned by
these composers themselves, would make good
and beautiful music anyway, even to persons
who had never heard a cuckoo or a donkey.
Of course we enjoy whatever is beautiful
music, no matter what atrocious names may
be given to the composition in question. It
need not be necessarily highstrung and
philosophical to be enjoyed.
	Many a Strauss waltz is thoroughly enjoyable,
even if Strauss was not very high up in the 
scale of renned or profound musical thought.
Such a waltz as the “Blue Danube” or “Artist’s
Life,” is enjoyable to the best musical taste,
when considered in its proper sense; that is
not in the least intellectual or thoughtful, but
pleasing witn its rhythmical beat and suggest-
tion of the dance. But although to a musical 
mind, and a healthy body, this kind of music
fills a certain place, still it is not elevating.
	The worst class of music against which we
have to defend ourselves is that vulgar,
realistic kind of composition, of which we see
so much written for the piano. The thunder-
storm piece, in which the listener is told that
a certain horrible jargon of ear-splitting dis-
sonance on the long brass wires is the thunder,
and that those meaningless, tinkling notes on
the short wires represent drops of rain on the
roof, while the sickly sentimental melody at the
end is the beautiful rainbow. Then there is
the battle piece, like the "Battle or Prague,"
which used to be the climax of musical educa-
tion in many of our boarding schools for young
ladies. But a mere listener to this phantasma-
goria will be of more benefit, and will do more
to elucidate its character than could an entire
essay on the subject. The difficulty lies in our
mistaking the province of music, which does
not treat of length, breadth, or thickness,
weight and color, and never can give an imi-
tation or reproduction of objects and things in
nature and every-day life. Even the most
aggressive romanticist will not do more thau
try to rival the poet in expression of feeling and 
passion. He will seek strange harmonies, inter-
rupted melodies, violent modulations and unpre-
pared transitions in order to express ecstasy,
fear, despair. He may attempt, like Wagner,
to intoxicate us with a crash of trumpets or
drive us to despair with the roll of a muffled
drum. But, though this kind of composition
satisfies the most sensitive and musically intel-
lectual hearer, and may astonish or frighten the
most unmusical, still it does not escape the re-
proach or criticism of offending the ear, that
is, the purely musical ear, considered as enjoy-
ing by itself alone, and not alloiwng head and
heart to take part in the enjoyment.
	But that music which has to be labeled and
plastered over with directions as to how it
must be shaken and taken, is not music at all.
When an individual's pleasure in listening de-
pends on the closeness of imitation to thunder
and lightning, or a battle with the Sioux, or
some particular babbling brook with two perch
swimming in its clear waters, then that man
may be said to have no music in his soul how-
ever fit he may be for anything else.
	If much of this so-called programme music,
or prescription music, could be labeled with a


[Column 1]

skull and crossbones, it would be at least pro-
fessional courtesy. Now, in literature and
painting every one of any education and in-
telligence recognizes such clap-trap, and loses
no time in discrimination; but how different is
the case as regards music!
	The great leader of the present and latest
development in musical art is Richard Wagner.
His music may be called realistic, but only so
because he chooses to accomplish his end, the
most profound pleasure, through the employ-
ment of real means. Quoting from his own
words: "The goal of the united efforts of three
types of artist, the poet, the musical composer,
and the actor, can only be a work of art made
positively real to the senses by a life-like pre-
sentation; in short, a work of art that, as com-
pared to the only one now known, shall be in
truth the art work of the future. And until
it has become fully living and real, we have
not reached our goal." It must be with Wagner
that same tendency for employing realistic
means, fitted to the scientific and practical spirit
of the times, that we see in many of the masters
of fiction at the present time. The same
realism and science of the times in Germany
is embodied in the poetry and prose of Sheffel,
Freytag, and the so-called professor novels of
Ebers, full of almost too much learning. But
more particularly do the novels of George
Eliot and Tolstoi illustrate this tendency to
employ natural living scenes from our every-
day life, for the purpose of presenting the
highest artistic ideas. It is, of course, impossi-
ble to make any comparison whatever between
the writers of literature and composers of
music. From the point of view taken by the
romanticists one might say that our better
emotions and sympathies are approached by
or through a certain imitation, or better, sug-
gestion of real natural truths and circumstan-
ces in human life and existence. And, while
this can be done readily enough in literature,
in music it is a different matter. Music can
only approach our souls or appeal to our emo-
tions through the imagination, and in this ca-
pacity, as already remarked, it can never give
dimensions, data, and fact without losing its
distinctive claims to the character of pure
music. In one or two particulars Wagner
and Tolstoi, as types of realism, appear to my
mind as similar. Tolstoi has a great purpose
in view—a picture of truth to delineate,
which he does by means of an endless amount
of descriptive detail, of the most intensely
commonplace and uninteresting kind, and
Wagner claims to have the same high artistic
purpose—no frivolity, no levity—only the most
weighty, intellectual pleasure, like the pleasure
in listening to high tragedy. He accomplishes
this, too, by a great detail of description, but
this means of description is not always music
even to musicians, any more than Tolstoi's in-
terminable and aimless details are always litera-
ture to litterateurs. There are interspersed in
Wagner's operas the most beautiful, penetrat-
ing, and often almost sensuous melodies; but,
musically speaking, there is more that becomes
merely descriptive. When he paints a giant
with his orchestrations, or a villian, the music
is inharmonious and offends us. When he
shows us the Niebelungen working underground
carrying loads of oar on their shoulders, the
effort becoms nearly as trying for the listener
as for the dwarfs themselves. The "motif"
of the Walkuere, or warrior goddesses, is not
music, and the "Walkurenritt," of ride of
these Amazons, although fascinating to music
cians, is more dramatic—is merely a realisti-
picture in music of this ride. In other scenes
in Wagner's operas, like the "Spring Night,"
the "Bird's Song," or the fire music (all in the
Trilogy), and even in whole operas, like the
Meistersinger von Nuernburg the music is so
beautiful that it is in itself alone, absolutely
unsurpassed in the history of the art. It is in

[Column 2]

the Trilogy. The ring of the "Neibelungs"(oc-
cuping four long evenings for its presentation)
in which Wagner carries his ideas and methods
so far, is most difficult even for musicians to
understand. His operatic writings are, upon
the whole, the most remarkable the world has
ever witnessed, and have had the greatest in-
fluence upon the musical taste of modern stu-
dents and real lovers of music. This influence
exhibits a tendency almost to obliterate, by its
high coloring, brilliancy, and dramatic power,
a great deal of the good but more moderate
music that has preceded it. Wagner has cer-
tainly created works of wonderful and original
beauty; many have done the same thing before
him and others will undoubtedly accomplish as
much in the future. The beauty of his works
is totally different from the imagination and
grandeur of Beethoven, or the more formal
beauties of Mozart. But the best critical stu-
dents can never claim that it is superior either
to one or to the other, comparison being an
impossibility in original artistic production.
Probably there is no such thing as progress,
and what we ordinarily term progress is simply
change or rotation, and "there is nothing new
under the sun." Certainly it is a more optim-
istic plan to hope for new lights in the history
of art. History may not repeat itself. But
Shakespeare has filled his place. Raphael and
Michael Angelo created for their time what
never could be inspired in the struggle and
progress of our modern civilization. That there
is relief in the present and future of musical
composition we may infer from the "creed" of
Hans von Bulow; "I beleive in Bach the
Father, Beethoven the Son, and Brahms the
Holy Ghost in music." Time alone will de-
termine whether Brahms has written Beet-
hoven's "tenth Symphony,"or whether
Wagner is a hundred years before his time.
Ex.		—Henry C. Post.


