SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
14th Ward Hall Thursday, March 13, 1890,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Her Counselor
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. E. Howard Secretary,
and Mrs. B. W. Smith Treasurer of the Stake
organization were on the stand. Conference
opened by singing "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah," prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor, singing "When time shall be no
more." Roll called, Presidents and Counselors
responded, minutes of previous Conference
were read and approved. Reports from the
several branches in the Stake and also the
complete Stake totals were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith made the opening speech
said these are good times to serve the Lord,
pay attention to the counsel we receive and put
it in practise and we shall come off conquerors;
do good to the needy and afflicted it gives
much joy. The teachers should be faithful
and persevere in looking after those in want.
	Pres. Horne was glad of the improvement
in the reports."pleased that the branches many
of them have remembered the Hospital,we had
hoped to have a building of our own before
now, but the government has robbed us as a
people of our property and it will be hard to
tell when there will be a change. Let us con-
tinue to store up grain, we may be ridiculed
but if we read the Scriptures, we know a
famine is coming, and we will see the day we
shall be glad we have wheat on hand; mothers
should teach their little ones to be careful of
the bread do not allow them to waste it, nor,
give them more than they can eat; it is im-
portant that we should be careful of every-
thing the Lord has blessed us with "Wilful
waste makes woful want." We are steward
over what the Lord has lent us, therefore, w
shall be held accountable for wasting ou
means. The Lord has blessed our efforts since


[Column 1]

we came to these valleys, let us be wise and ap-
preciate our father's kindness, He is our
friend, let us continually seek for wisdom that
we may do right.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor, "we have a perfect right
to live our religion every day. President
Young told us to trade with our co-religionists,
how have we kept that counsel? We have put
money in the hands of men in this city to use
to our injury. The Lord is trying us, let us
examine ourselves and ask are we doing any-
thing to cause us to be brought into bondage.
I am afraid I have not much charity for those
who boast so much of what they are going to
do. They give us who came here and made
the country no credit, for anything, we have
all labored hard for what we have, now they
boast they are going to rob us of all they can,
let us pray for charity. Conference adjourned
to 2 p. m. with singing "The time is far
spent." and a benediction by Mrs. E. Barton.
	Afternoon session. singing "O, Jesus the
giver of all we enjoy," prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard, singing "O, say what is truth," the
secretary then read the following address:
	To my sisters of the Relief Society. Not
being privileged to meet with you, my health
suffering somewhat from the wintry weather, I
thought a few words in this silent way would
be better than none at all. My heart and de-
sires are with those whose aims are for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, to benefit
one another, to feed, clothe and comfort the
needy in a tangible form. The widow and the
fatherless, and the sick and afflicted who may
be thrown upon the charity of others, by cir-
cumstances over which they had no control,
should cause the more favored ones to over-
flow with gratitude, and to remember those
who are being tried in their turn as many of
us have been in days gone by, and being per-
haps, more keenly tried in this day—being both
proud and sensitive—with the difference that
is marked between the poor and many of the
rich and prosperous. The excellent discourse
delivered by President George Q. Cannon Feb.
23rd, he closes with some of the words of
King Benjamin that would be profitable for
us all to act upon. As President Cannon said
"we come far from reaching the standard that
God has held up for us We are not as self-
sacrificing as we should be. We do not love
our neighbors as we should do. In our
struggles we think little of those that are
weaker than ourselves, that have not the
ability that we have, and we pass them in the
race, and frequently we jostle them out of the
track." As he says "there is too much of this
among us." But the Lord has never stopped
His ears to the cries of the humble, and they
can look to Him and find sympathy and
succor in the hour of trouble, no matter what
position they may be placed in while in this
probation they have the consoling words of the
Lord of Hosts that He is no respecter of persons.
This is a day in which He is testing His
people, and it is for us to watch as well as pray
that we walk not in darkness at noonday. It
is a time when we need to read His command-
ments given through the Prophet Joseph for
our guidance.
	(The time seems upon us in which the Saints
are to be tried with wealth. And things that
I see transpiring remind me, in some particu-
lars, of the few days of seeming prosperity of
the Church at Kirtland But those whose
eyes can be dazzled by gold, or the glittering
tinsels that Mammon holds out, till they lose
sight of the greater riches just within our
grasp that cannot perish, and, as it were, sell
their birthright for a bowl of pottage, will be
thus fulfilling a prediction. My father (Heber
C. Kimball) was frequently heard to say that
he dreaded the day that this people were to
be tried with riches, more than all the poverty

[Column 2]

and persecution that could befall them. But
we must all have opportunities to be proven.)
	The word of the Lord is what we should
heed. He said to the Saints June 1st 1833, at
Kirtland "Verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, whom I love, and whom I love I also
chasten, that their sins may be forgiven, for
with the chastisement I prepare a way for
their deliverance in all things out of tempta-
tion, and I have loved you. Therefore ye must 
needs be chastened and stand rebuked before
my face." The remainder my sisters can read
at their leisure. The Lord calls many but they
are not all chosen. His words to the Saints
then are as applicable to day. The Lord has
suffered our foes to prevail against us "but
fear them not," He says, "for they are as grass,
and all their glory as the flower thereof which
soon falleth."
	I do not see it as some do, that we should
yield up the city, sell our inheritances, and
seek homes in other quarters without a stronger
reason than the threats of men to tax us till
we will be compelled to leave. Many will
have to bend to this pressure, but the spirit of
speculation should not get the better of our
judgment. But whatever comes we may be
assured that the Lord is making use of the
tools, and materials in various forms that are
presenting themselves. All will help to push
the great work upward and onward to its
grand and glorious destiny, and this is worth
our battling for. If this people were to leave
here prosperity and progress would cease as it
did in every place that they settled in the states
and were driven from. Every move that has
been made to destroy this work has turned out
to the accomplishment of some mighty purpose.
The Lord is working out the salvation of
Israel, but these things are hidden from the
wicked. That His wisdom may guide our feet
is the sincere desire of your sister.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox Cor. Sec. of the Stake
bore a strong testimony to the truth and al-
luded to the benefit of the Sisters' organiza-
tions.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball "I am very happy to
see your faces once more in a Relief Society
capacity. I have traveled more than 6,000
miles since I met with you here. I have felt
and realized that we were sustained by the
faith and prayers of our sisters at home; there
are many trying to do good but there are none
that have the truth to lead them as we have.
I went to Washington as a suffragist and I
made them feel it was none of their business
what church we belong to. I think the in-
terest of the suffragists are the same as the
Relief Society and one with the other are
helps to woman. I attended the Episcopal
Church there I heard not one word of salva-
tion or who Jesus is. They know nothing
about what we rejoice in. One of the best
discourses I heard was from a woman. Those
with whom we conversed had a feeling that we
had something they had not. Let us have no
feeling of bigotry, we ought not to cherish any-
thing of the kind. We should have an influ-
ence to bless mankind and let our influence
be for good and doing good to all we can."
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark spoke a short time and
referred to mothers whose sons are upon mis-
sions and the exercise of faith in God and said
many good things.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Pres. Horne each made suit-
able remarks containing many valuable sug-
gestions and full of instruction to mothers and
to all who are laboring in the best interests of
the Relief Society and the uplifting of
humanity.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing "When shall we all meet again," bene-
diction by Mrs. Diana Reid.


