[Vol51 | October 1964 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: 728 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 1 Mabel Harmer]
Harmer.txt) ===
comfort of a place called home, Warm joys of family, Familiar soil where flowers grow, A garden and a tree. Bewildered by earth's generous gift That grows from year to year — Stretch wide my understanding Of my full purpose here.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_10_09_SpFt_They_Grimm.txt) ===
officers of a new committee in Quezon City designed to help the youth by giving them good activities and opportunities for leadership. She is active in politics, having been on the election committee as a registrar. She has a lovely voice; formerly, she sang on radio. Here, then, is a valuable Church member, who gained her testimony through Reliet Society. Wk ok ok OK THE Relief Society brought me into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," Rosalina Agana Honrado says. She began attending the dependent Relief Society of the Manila Branch, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission, with her neighbor Sister Salud Jamenez. Two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds and Sister Smithen, had been teaching two of Mrs. Honrado's nephews, but she had never heard any of the lessons. Mrs. Honrado was given an opportunity in Relief Society meeting to pray, lead the singing, and conduct the music, just as are the other members of Relief Society, whether they are members of the Church or not. She gave a strong testimony during the testimony meeting. Rosalina Agana Honrado asked to be baptized after attending only Relief Society meetings, without any lessons from the missionaries and without attending any other meetings. She obtained a testimony of the gospel through Relief Society. The two missionary sisters gave her the necssary lessons before she was baptized. Her nephews were baptized, and her daughter and a niece will soon join the Church. Sister Honrado is very active in the Church, is very humble, and is a good Latter-day Saint. I The missionaries write: "Our thanks for the Relief Society program and the tremendous lessons and possibilities for fellowshipping people." 747 Clay ua Kile Cliltber I. Gray morning mist haunts the little sidestreets. Morning's cool hush runs over their ground. Sunlight comes late to discover these places; Frost is upon them, a silver breath-bound. All the small houses are quiet, alike, Side-by-side, standing in trim yards of lawn From echo of schoolbell till bustle of playtime; These are the gray hours. The children are gone. Il. Sky-bright and summer-warm, noon barely paused. Now the gold motes dance in gold that was green, Spangle the sidewalks, impatiently glitter — But softly October winds puff, press, and preen. Poured like a tide into freedom from walls, Children surge over the sidewalks and grass — Run in and out of their eager-doored houses! Leaning long eastward, the slow shadows pass. Ill. Feathers of cloud line the wake of set sun A blue hour begins the unrolling of night. Once more deserted, the play-yards lie silent, Outlined by picket fence, ghostly in white. Dark brings a chill premonition of frost. The matched rows of houses draw back from their gates, Holding the children safe-guarded inside them. A querulous cricket chirrups... And waits.