[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 786 | Lesson | Literature — | ]

LITERATURE    The Individual and Human Values
                as Seen Through Literature

                                        Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part II

(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 71-90)

For Third Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith
in God and man have been expressed through poetry.

LAST month we examined several poems by William Wordsworth as evidences of the poets' traditional affirmation of spiritual values and traditional faith in God and man. This month we turn to another English poet, Robert Browning (1812-1889), to explore further the poetry of faith.

Browning was equal to Wordsworth as an affirmer of lofty ideals, and even greater as a poet—possibly the greatest English poet since Milton. His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and psychological soul-studies probe as meaningfully into human personality and character as any poems ever written; and his long masterpiece, The Ring and the Book, is one of the great poems of the world. Browning's writing is complex and difficult, but wonderfully rewarding.

The words "robust optimist" have so often been used to describe Browning that they now seem almost part of his name.

Fortunately, they fit this great man whose total affirmation of life both here and hereafter is so vigorous that it is attractive even to readers who may not share it. Strangely, his most widely known statement of optimism, "God's in his Heaven—All's right with the world," spoken by a naive little girl in his drama Pippa Passes, is an extreme view that Browning recognized as unrealistic. Although Browning knew that there is much wrong with man's present world, he firmly believed that God is in heaven ultimately controlling the universe and that the potentiality of man in this life is great and the confidence with which he can look forward to life beyond death is equally great.

Occasionally Browning speaks of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as

One who never turned his back
but marched breast forward,

786

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Here's the top-peak; the multitude below
Live, for they can, there;
This man decided not to Live
but Know—
Bury this man there?
Here—here's his place, where meteors shoot, clouds form,
Lightnings are loosened,
Stars come and go!

The problem for the modern reader of this poem is in deciding not to side with the grammarian's critics who felt that he was wasting his time in a grubby search for knowledge, that he would have been wiser to live life to the fullest as Browning advocated in other poems. But Browning's point is that whatever one chooses to do should be done with energy and enthusiasm and devotion. Pillowy, "lukewarm," easy, directionless, undisciplined mediocrity was as distasteful to Browning as St. John in the Book of Revelation recorded it as being to Jesus Christ. (Revelation 3:15-16 reads: "I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.")

An Epistle of Karshish. Browning's long and complex poem called "An Epistle, Containing the Strange Medical Experience of Karshish the Arab Physician" is perhaps the most successful effort in the world's poetry to recreate the tremendous impact of Christ's mission upon an ancient non-believer who is so overwhelmed by it all that in bafflement he almost believes. The poem is not history and should not be read as history. It is an art creation, attempting to capture the spirit rather than merely the factual details of how Christ's life and message must have affected those who only half knew and understood it.

Karshish and Abib are imaginary characters. The Epistle purports to be written in 66 A.D. from Bethany in Judea by the traveling scholar-physician Karshish to his master, Abib.

The first two sections, through line 61, are merely introductory as Karshish tells Abib of his travels to a number of places, different people and things he has seen, and various medicines he has used in the treatment of epilepsy and other sicknesses. The reader will almost certainly find these lines tedious and not very meaningful, as Browning intended.

Then Karshish, almost as an afterthought, says, "Yet stay." Something is on his mind that he wants to talk about. Before the reader moves very far in the poem he should study the account in John 11:1-44 of Christ's raising of Lazarus from the dead, for it is about Lazarus that Karshish wishes to talk. He has met Lazarus and been puzzled by him. "The man had something in the look of him," says Karshish in line 69, something that Karshish cannot forget. Lazarus, having felt the power of Christ, is a man incapable of doubt.

And first—the man's own firm conviction rests
That he was dead (in fact they buried him)
—That he was dead and then restored to life
By a Nazarene physician of his tribe:
—Sayeth, the same bade "Rise," and he did rise. (lines 97-101)

789

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Saying, "O heart I made, a heart beats here!
Face, my hands fashioned, see it in myself!"

And not only a being of love, but also a being, divinely perfected, in the glorified form of man himself. The whole thing is utterly beyond comprehension for Karshish, but also beyond dismissal. He cannot believe, yet he cannot not believe. And so brilliant is Browning's handling of the whole poem that the reader is fully caught up in the wonder of it all, just as Karshish was. Christ, the Creator and Redeemer of the world, and mankind's loving Elder Brother!

Note to Class Leader

The material on Browning given here is taken from pp. 71-90 of the Relief Society literature text. In addition to this interpretive material, the text contains a more extended discussion of Browning and a full print (with explanatory notes) of "A Grammarian's Funeral" and "An Epistle of Karshish," which should be used in the wards and branches for this month's lesson.

If these poems by Browning seem too complex for use in some Relief Society groups, the literature text in this section on "Faith in God and Man" also contains several shorter poems, with interpretive discussions. These are intended as supplementary, enrichment selections and may be used as desired to meet the special needs of wards and branches or discussion groups in the homes. They are excellent selections for brief, stimulating analysis. The poems are as follows: "The Lamb" by William Blake, "I Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, "Little Jesus" by Frances Thompson, "The Windhover" and "God's Grandeur" by Gerald Manley Hopkins, and "Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell.

Thoughts and Questions for Discussion

1. Is it really better, as Browning says, to set difficult high goals and strive towards them even though they may not be fully attained than to set easy low goals and attain them? Why?

2. Discuss the effectiveness of the short lines in "A Grammarian's Funeral."

3. How successful is Browning in "An Epistle of Karshish" in taking you back two thousand years to the time when Jesus walked in person on the earth, unknown and unrecognized?

4. Why does Karshish find it more difficult and more wonderful to think of God as a Being of love than just a Being of great power?

5. Why does Karshish's confusion about the true nature of Christ's death make Browning's poem even more realistic than if Karshish had all the details correct?

791

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 17 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations —Continued

For Fourth Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations.

Zion is built of perfected family circles.

All devices, divine and human, for man's betterment, to be effective, must recognize the training that comes out of the home (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 80).

FAMILY: A SACRED COMMISSION

The family is a sacred institution ordained of God. It insures his spirit children intimate, stimulating, and loving environment for their development during the most impressionable period of their lives on earth.

According to the scriptures, marriage was intended for all men and women, it being necessary in order for them to fulfill the purpose of their creation. "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (1 Cor. 11:11). And in Mark 10:7-9 we read, "For this cause [marriage] shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; And they twain shall be one flesh...." In the instructions to the first couple, the Creator made clear the importance of children in his plan ("multiply and replenish the earth") and the responsibility of parenthood was accepted. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (P of GP, Moses 5:12).

Children become members of the Church and the Church is judged by the way the members reflect its teachings. The kind of member the child becomes depends largely upon the family environment in which the child develops his basic attitudes toward life and its purpose. The duty and obligation of parenthood is to teach the children correct principles and to set the proper example before them. Thus knowing right from wrong, it is the responsibility of each person to make his own decision.

PERFECTION IN FAMILY LIVING

With our accumulated knowledge of and experience in family living, together with the divine

792

LESSON DEPARTMENT

guidance and counsel we have received, and with the possibility of personal revelation to the Priesthood holder for the welfare of his family, we should be producing family units that are near perfection. According to this, if our families are functioning as they should, it would be possible for us to eliminate most of the social ills known to family life. We should be free of such problems as crime, delinquency, divorce, desertion, and conflict in general. There has never been more help available for the family organization than there is today.

What do the results show in your home, in your ward and stake? Let us examine our own homes first, not in relation to the big things just mentioned, but in relation to the small things that may, eventually, lead to larger and more serious problems. Within your own home is there dishonesty, deception, or a lack of forthrightness in the dealings among the family members? To what extent is selfishness apparent in the family interaction? Does the true spirit of love dominate where the personal concern for other family members comes before self? Does anger dictate your discipline measures? Is there unbridled criticism of one another?

You see, these things and many other happenings of the home become a part of the child that goes forth from that home, and all the things he experiences each day become a part of him for the moment and for the years to come. Let each one check carefully the daily family experiences and evaluate them in terms of the best information or knowledge and

practice available to him. Are we developing young men and young women in our homes who will be able to make virtuous decisions? Are we justifying the availability of divine guidance and counsel in the performance of our duties as parents?

Divine inspiration is as available to the Priesthood bearer in the home performing his duties as the leader of his family, as it is to the Priesthood bearer in the operation of any other office or calling in the Church. Because of the importance of the family in its influence on the children as members of the Church, and society in general, the power and influence of the divine is, and always has been, within easy access to those who inquire and are worthy to receive this influence. It is living the gospel that brings the blessings of heaven.

OPERATION OF FAMILY LIFE
A JOINT PROJECT

By way of emphasis may we again call attention to the fact that the man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and that the fulness of the Priesthood is possible only through the sealing ordinance of a temple marriage. In such a marriage "the twain shall be one flesh." This being the case, it is logical to conclude that there is equal responsibility for the success of the family unit. The marriage we speak of is eternal, and the total experience of this life has a direct bearing on the nature of the eternal relationship.

DISTINCTIVE CALLINGS

In the operation of the family unit there should be no competi-

793
