[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 724 | Special Feature | So Grateful That You Taught Me Edith | S. Elliott]

So Grateful
That You
Taught Me

Edith S. Elliott
Member, General Board
of Relief Society

THE quality of a nation is nothing more than the reflection of its people, who in turn are formed into families. Someone has said, "As the family goes, so goes the nation." Latter-day Saints have the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fullness which teaches sound proper attitudes and gives direction for their development and exaltation. The state of perfection that we reach is entirely up to each of us. We are given our free agency. How grateful we should be that we have a Heavenly Father who cares enough about us, his children, to make the rules and regulations so clear, that, if followed, we can return to him.

Latter-day Saints, as individuals and families, live in many parts of the world and our hope in majority in quality that can help raise the standards of their community and nation. History has shown that when a people are willing to live up to high moral principles, their country forges ahead in all things good. We have also known of "historical lows" when whole nations have been wiped out because of the lack of proper demeanor on the part of their inhabitants.

As parents, of course, we love our children. Every wise mother and father have dreams and hopes for the development of their children so that they will be prepared to meet life successfully. Many parents have the satisfaction of having their children grow up into well-adjusted, well-educated, intelligent, and much-loved individuals

724

SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME

who make a wholesome and appreciable contribution to their families and the communities in which they live.

Some parents have the opposite experience and suffer the heartache of having to see their children in varying degrees of circumstances undesirable in fields of social acceptance, law, or order. The sad part of this latter situation is that it may be too late to help. The time for training and influence has passed. Then parents may have the added remorse of realizing that they had not earnestly done all they could do to guide, teach, and discipline their children properly.

The time to begin to teach proper deportment is when children are very young, while their habits are being controlled and molded. Your happiness, the children's happiness, and community happiness are dependent upon how well you do your job.

As soon as God breathes the breath of life into a newborn baby, parents take on the enormous responsibility of its development. The baby doesn't come to you as a "little adult," but helpless, dependent, and yours for shaping. This is where love counts the most. Only love can weather the time of discouragement when misunderstandings arise.

A young nurse in one of our large hospitals has endeared herself to many mothers, doctors, and nurses because of her love for babies. She worked in the delivery room and once, just bubbling over with enthusiasm, she exclaimed, "I have the most wonderful job in the world, because I get the babies straight from God! I have the opportunity of holding them in my arms and taking care of their very first needs. It is a really humbling experience to care for one of God's spirits so recently having left his presence. I hope I am worthy of this blessing." This nurse is a wife and mother now, still carrying on and applying the above thoughts with reference to her own children. She senses her responsibility to care for them and train them so that they may grow to be well-adjusted individuals. One simple example of her training is never to allow her tiny children to run or walk through the house holding a glass of water when they have asked for a drink. She has taught them to sit on the floor, drink what they want, and return the glass to her, thus avoiding the hazard of spilling or breakage. She says, "If my children learn at home that they must be careful in their activities, then they won't be a nuisance when I take them to the home of my friends, nor an embarrassment to me."

In Proverbs we read, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it." Training should begin as early as a child can comprehend what it is that he should do. Parents should remember that a child's chronological, physical, and mental age development may not all coincide. They must not push his learning processes too fast, but continue on a level that a child can reach, with challenges sufficient for continuing growth. Most parents do quite well in developing their children physically and mentally. However, there is too large a percentage who neglect

725

OCTOBER 1964

the training of manners and social graces which help to make their progeny welcome in and acceptable to society.

Knowing the secret of putting every member of a group at ease is a rare gift. This can be achieved only by conscientious and continuous training and learning. Home practice and home coaching in speech and performance will pay large dividends.

It is a real thrill for parents when they hear someone say, "Your child is so well behaved in Church" or "Your child is always welcome in our home — he is such a gentleman." These are some of the rewards for teaching courtesy and respect in daily activity. Courtesy oils the wheels of association.

When we realize that children reflect the actions of parents, we should always be on guard and set a good example in culture, refinement, and politeness. We can't give any more help in these areas than what we ourselves possess, so we should constantly be on the alert toward self-improvement. No one can afford to be anything less than a perfect lady or gentleman.

Courtesy, good manners, or politeness — whatever term we wish to use — have played a most important part in international relations. Diplomacy among nations smooths out many tense and misunderstood incidents. Ambassadors and government representatives have to have had a strict training in ways and means of handling people and incidents.

Politeness is just another term listed under the all-encompassing heading love. If we love our fellow man enough, we will never do anything to offend. We will seek always to be helpful to others and aim to make the lives of relatives and friends as pleasant and rewarding as possible—"Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets" (Mt. 7:12).

Orientals have an engaging way of showing courtesy. They are trained from birth to respect and show deference to parents, brothers and sisters, older people, and those in authority. This they do with no effort. It is just a part of them. This training has gone on for generations. Gentle-mannered Orientals teach by example and we can learn much from them. It is a joy to associate with persons of good manners.

Our children should be taught to respect their elders. Mature persons have had years of experience and knowledge which increase with use and time. They can enrich the lives of young folks by their example and teaching. Also people who hold positions of leadership, management, or authority should have respect shown them. In most cases they have arrived at their positions because they have merited it, and young folks should show appreciation for the attainment.

Our Latter-day Saint boys and girls should stand up when any of the Church Authorities enter their group. Boys should arise when a lady enters; hold the door for her; help her with her wraps; provide a chair; thus creating a climate of good will.

726

SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME

Our girls should follow rules of etiquette which will create for them an atmosphere of "ease" and "know how."

A large percentage of our boys and girls will be called on missions in various parts of the world. Courtesy is one of the chief ingredients for successful proselyting. Cleanliness, pleasant personality, interest in people, knowledge about their assigned field of activity, knowledge of the gospel message, respect for authority, dignified congeniality are all essential elements of good manners.

Parents should send their sons and daughters into the mission field with all the training possible to meet their assignments and with attributes and attitudes which will ultimately bring about the successful fruition of their efforts. Missionaries reflect their home training. As representatives of their home and Church, they need all the fortification that parents and teachers can give.

Mothers, who usually spend more time with the children than fathers do, could make it a point to teach and emphasize the rules of behavior. Repetition is a significant factor in teaching. A mother with several children should ask each one, in turn, how he would act under a given circumstance. It could become a game and be great fun. Different situations could be acted out. Children love stage play. Father's help is always necessary whenever his time is available. But father's best teaching is by example. His kindness, politeness, thoughtfulness, and helpfulness are all different shades of courteous demeanor.

Parents could make up a list of courtesy projects for their families and set a special time for their consideration and study. A part of each Family Home would be an ideal time for a well-organized program with discussion and assignment as part of it. A list of subjects might be provided to help each child feel at ease under certain general conditions. When a child makes a mistake the embarrassment he suffers sometimes is harder on him than pain. To teach a child how to act on these general occasions will help him also to adapt to related ones with poise and self-confidence.

Each parent's study list may be different, but some general subjects to work on could be: politeness in the home, the neighborhood, at church, at a party, at a picnic, out at camping, in public places, among friends, in school, table manners, manners on the telephone, answering the door, greeting friends and strangers, and introductions. There are, of course, many more. See how the list grows! There is no phase of life but what the display of good manners can improve. Children need to be taught and disciplined in the ways of social behavior in order to protect themselves under trying and awkward situations.

It is heartwarming to parents to see their child perform well in the realm of courtesy and to hear him say, "I feel that I handled what could have been an embarrassing situation quite well. Thanks for your training. So grateful that you taught me."

NOTE: See also the Work Meeting Lessons for 1961-62 "Attitudes and Manners," by Elaine Anderson Cannon.

727

[ILLUSTRATION]
