[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 735 | Special Feature | A Scenic View of the Literature Lessons Vilate | R. McAllister]

A Scenic View of the
Literature Lessons                    Vilate R. McAllister

"You'll find the lesson previews in the June issue of the Magazine," said the president of the Relief Society, "in case you want to get started on them this summer. And thank you so much. I am sure you will thoroughly enjoy conducting the literature lessons."

I saw her to her car, then returned to the living room and sat down, completely overwhelmed. "What is the matter with me? I should have told her I couldn't do it. Surely she could have found someone more qualified than I, someone whose education is not so limited, and who doesn't tremble in fear before a group of people."

But she had been so sure it was inspiration that led her to me and, after all, I do have plenty of time, a boon not everyone enjoys. "It will be a matter of lots of study," I told myself, and went in search of that June issue.

I read the preview, consisting of a short introduction and a listing of the subject each month, together with the objective for each lesson. A feeling came over me that I recognized as from a past experience. It was the feeling I had when I first came to Salt Lake City, and, having been

735

OCTOBER 1964

informed that the east side of the city is fringed with canyons whose streams furnish water for the thirsty valley below, had been driven around Wasatch Boulevard, past the mouths of seven or eight canyons, each one being named as we came to it. A glimpse, surely, but only a glimpse of the wonders in store for me when I should come to drive into the canyons, explore them, and make them mine. I could hardly wait for the July issue, so I could "drive" into that first lesson.

Finally it arrived, and I turned immediately to the lesson, something I had never done before. Avidly I read it, and again experienced a nostalgic feeling, the emotions I had on my first drive into Big Cottonwood Canyon. I remembered the exhilaration, the fresh air, the sunshine, the crags and forested slopes, the gurgling stream, the winding road with a fresh vista at every turn. With slight variations, I had experienced the same never-to-be-forgotten thrills, as I had opportunity later to visit each canyon in turn. But I knew that first drive had not prepared me to be a guide to others on a scenic trip, any more than the first cursory reading of the lesson prepared me to guide a roomful of Relief Society sisters into the joyous experience I felt was in store for them.

Since it seemed a moment for profitable meditation, I allowed myself to go back into my later experiences with the canyons. I had met an artist, who had pointed out to me the magnificence of certain peaks, the changing lights and seasons, the shadows of the

forest, the picturesqueness of small scenes along the stream, with the overhanging boughs and churning water. On another occasion, a naturalist had called my attention to various and numerous flora and fauna, all pursuing the purposes of their creation scarce observed by man. He identified a rare bird call, which I learned to recognize for myself. He showed me wild flowers, which sent me to the library for fascinating books on the subject. A geologist interpreted the various formations and their history as he read it, and gave me helpful pamphlets. A philosopher-poet quoted Wordsworth and Bryant and Edna St. Vincent Millay. A historian told me of prehistoric people who roamed the canyon, and of early-day happenings. The Mormon pioneers had carved crude trails where now were excellent roads. They had held celebrations here. They had hauled granite from these ledges under almost impossible conditions, to build their temple. Once many mills dotted these streams from which they drew power to make flour, paper, lumber products, and other things to help conquer the wilderness. An agriculturist told me of the wealth that came from the diverted streams to the farms below. These and many more experiences had added to the richness of my acquaintance with the canyons, which gradually came to be a part of me, and I finally was able to take my visiting friends there, and give them much more than just a quick glimpse of the scenic drive.

As I reflected on these things, a flash of inspiration almost con-

736

A SCENIC VIEW OF THE LITERATURE LESSONS

sumed my being. I realized that if I wanted to make these lessons mine, I must do a great deal of individual study.

To my joy, as I got into it, I found that at leadership meeting I could talk with others who were filled with enthusiasm and the desire to communicate, including a well-qualified stake class leader. I discovered that there were lectures I could attend, classes I could take. In my children's old history books were chapters of refresher historical background. Their high-school literature books had marginal comments and questions on the writings. Use of my dictionary gave me fresh understanding of words I had been slipping over for years. Library shelves contained critical essays that revealed to me qualities in the literature I would not have recognized with my limited background. Paperbacks abounded to furnish inexpensive copy and supplements. At lectures and classes I made friends among people who were fulfilling a like calling to my own, and used the telephone to exchange ideas with them. To keep me on the track, there was supplied at the leadership department meeting the outline from the General Board, directing me to the points of greatest value to the sisters, and the General Board instruction that all supplementary material used must support the objective of the lesson. This served as the control in utilizing supplementary material.

As each Magazine came, I familiarized myself with the lesson in that issue, and found that everywhere I turned were quotes from the authors, or articles about them. This started a collection of tear sheets, which included pictures. This supplemented the visual aid kits available to me from the R. S. [?]. At our leadership meeting we all brought our visual aids and evaluated them to be sure we would not use too many.

I was soon so wrapped up in literature that I considered months in advance how I would present each lesson: this one a panel discussion, that one an "interview" with an impersonated author, who would help with the reading of the poems. At another, two or three sisters, with special dramatic ability, could present a skit, which would bring out the salient facts about an author, and dramatize parts of his work. A song would present itself to my notice, perhaps in the middle of the night, that would be just right to begin the lesson, or more often to close it.

I set up little private objectives of my own, such as imparting to others the keen joy and satisfaction I found in delving into the hearts and minds of the articulate people of other times and places. Or to help the mothers to encourage their children to develop a love of reading and a discrimination in reading matter. Or, again, I could see how a certain sister might derive help for her problems by preparing a certain bit of inspiring material.

As I prepared each lesson, I went back to the Magazine, and reread it time after time, and found that each reading brought renewed understanding and discovery of richness and meaning I had missed before. Now I was

737

OCTOBER 1964

really bringing something of myself to it. The lessons, like my canyons, were coming alive with all sorts of fascinating facets and possibilities.

As the president had foretold, I found myself thoroughly enjoying my class, so thoroughly that the members of my family often goodnaturedly commented that "Mom eats and sleeps and breathes literature." Which is

probably true. But how else can one make it truly a part of oneself, to the point where, after a lesson, some of the sisters express a desire to get hold of a precious book and read more? That, dear sisters, is the goal, the dream, and the crowning reward of being a literature leader, and makes any amount of effort splendidly worthwhile.
