[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 758 | Home | The Cents-less Ghost Has Gone Genevieve | Van Wagenen]

The Cents-less Ghost Has Gone

Genevieve Van Wagenen

ARE you a mother who dislikes spending hard-earned cash for Halloween costumes? Well, if you are, you are just one of the majority. But what to do about it? October brings Halloween and Halloween means costumes. It is evident, from all the protests, that the pillow-slip ghost of yesteryear is no longer tolerated. This priceless or centsless ghost that was such a universal favorite of children forty years ago — the one grandma could rig up in five minutes and at no expense — is today an outcast and no longer considered good company.

Every mother wants her child to look as nice as the next one, and have all the fun that life affords. But, three or four dollars is a lot of money to spend for a costume made of shoddy materials, that are literally thrown together, a gaudy, ill-fitting "something-or-other" that will be worn once or twice, then discarded. It is not only a big expense but a real extravagance, if you have several children to outfit.

There is one way to beat this extravagance — to cut expenses, yet let your child be the "Grand-est Goblin" in the Halloween parade, and, at the same time, add glamor to your child's life and wardrobe. One clever mother has been doing it for years. Her children love it — they wouldn't have it any other way. With a little ingenuity and thoughtful planning she has heaped compliments upon her children. Teachers and classmates alike have appreciated her unique and beautiful costumes. Costumes, did I say? Yes, but costumes just for today — tomorrow they are practical items of clothing. Some are

758

[ILLUSTRATION: Two figures in costumes - one appears to be wearing Chinese-style clothing with a patterned jacket and pants, the other appears to be in a Robin Hood or Peter Pan style costume with a feathered hat and holding what looks like a palette]

glamor articles to spice up the effect. Two full-bloom carna-
wardrobe, to add comfort, enjoy- tions made of paper were
ment, and cultural development. fastened over the ears. This
Expensive? Not at all. According completed the costume and
to this mother's own words, "I transformed Marilyn into a beau-
just can't throw money away on tiful little Chinese coolie maiden,
costumes. I came of pioneer and all for the humble price of
stock, my money must work for $1.50. And the best part about
me. Thrift is my middle name." it, Marilyn is still wearing the
For seventy-five cents she beautiful yellow and blue pajama
bought a remnant of heavy royal outfit as a luxurious lounging
blue satin. There was sufficient ensemble.
yardage to make a pair of exotic, Christy, the little first grader,
well-fitting pajama bottoms for joined the Halloween parade in a
nine-year-old Marilyn. Another dashing Bo-Peep costume. Mother
remnant, a soft yellow satin with selected a gay flowered cotton
tiny rose and royal blue forget- print. She fashioned a tight fit-
me-nots scattered here and there, ting bodice, square neck, full
was just perfect for a "coolie gathered skirt, and perky ruf-
coat" to go with the pajama bot- fled sleeves. Bits of organdy
toms. From the royal blue satin and lace from the sewing box
scraps, she made bias cording became an adorable little apron.
from which she fashioned "frogs" Next, from some scraps, Mother
to fasten to the front of the made a wide black belt that
"coolie coat" and give a Chinese graduated to points in front. This

759

OCTOBER 1964

was laced together with a long black shoelace that tied in a bow at the waist. The children fashioned a staff for Bo-Peep, tied it with a large bow, and Christy went to school the happiest Bo-Peep you ever saw. When the parade was over, Christy had a lovely little dress for church and school.

Sandy was a sprightly Jack Frost. She appeared in a jaunty, peaked cap of bright green corduroy and a matching one-piece play dress with zippered front, to which mother had sewed handfuls of gaily colored artificial autumn leaves. Bright red stockings and fancy pointed elf shoes made of black oilcloth, which were run up in five minutes on the machine, completed her costume. Sandy's costume cost less than two dollars, and when the fun was over and the leaves re-

moved, Sandy had a warm and comfortable play dress to wear through the winter. This play dress was such a boon to the wardrobe, it cut down on the ironing, and was always ready to wear. Sandy and Mother enjoyed it so much, Mother used the same pattern the following year. Only this time she purchased a bright yellow-orange corduroy, for the play outfit. Sandy went dressed as Prince Pumpkin. A large cardboard pumpkin was fashioned into a crown. Small colorful paper pumpkins with bright green leaves were arranged in an attractive design and sewed on the play suit.

You, too, can have this pleasure. So, mothers, put on your thinking caps and join the thrift parade. Thrill your youngsters with pretty costumes and lovely practical clothes.
