[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 792 | Poem | Social Science — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (Continued) Ariel | S. Ballif]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 17 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations —Continued

For Fourth Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations.

Zion is built of perfected family circles.

All devices, divine and human, for man's betterment, to be effective, must recognize the training that comes out of the home (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 80).

FAMILY: A SACRED COMMISSION

The family is a sacred institution ordained of God. It insures his spirit children intimate, stimulating, and loving environment for their development during the most impressionable period of their lives on earth.

According to the scriptures, marriage was intended for all men and women, it being necessary in order for them to fulfill the purpose of their creation. "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (1 Cor. 11:11). And in Mark 10:7-9 we read, "For this cause [marriage] shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; And they twain shall be one flesh...." In the instructions to the first couple, the Creator made clear the importance of children in his plan ("multiply and replenish the earth") and the responsibility of parenthood was accepted. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (P of GP, Moses 5:12).

Children become members of the Church and the Church is judged by the way the members reflect its teachings. The kind of member the child becomes depends largely upon the family environment in which the child develops his basic attitudes toward life and its purpose. The duty and obligation of parenthood is to teach the children correct principles and to set the proper example before them. Thus knowing right from wrong, it is the responsibility of each person to make his own decision.

PERFECTION IN FAMILY LIVING

With our accumulated knowledge of and experience in family living, together with the divine

792

LESSON DEPARTMENT

guidance and counsel we have received, and with the possibility of personal revelation to the Priesthood holder for the welfare of his family, we should be producing family units that are near perfection. According to this, if our families are functioning as they should, it would be possible for us to eliminate most of the social ills known to family life. We should be free of such problems as crime, delinquency, divorce, desertion, and conflict in general. There has never been more help available for the family organization than there is today.

What do the results show in your home, in your ward and stake? Let us examine our own homes first, not in relation to the big things just mentioned, but in relation to the small things that may, eventually, lead to larger and more serious problems. Within your own home is there dishonesty, deception, or a lack of forthrightness in the dealings among the family members? To what extent is selfishness apparent in the family interaction? Does the true spirit of love dominate where the personal concern for other family members comes before self? Does anger dictate your discipline measures? Is there unbridled criticism of one another?

You see, these things and many other happenings of the home become a part of the child that goes forth from that home, and all the things he experiences each day become a part of him for the moment and for the years to come. Let each one check carefully the daily family experiences and evaluate them in terms of the best information or knowledge and

practice available to him. Are we developing young men and young women in our homes who will be able to make virtuous decisions? Are we justifying the availability of divine guidance and counsel in the performance of our duties as parents?

Divine inspiration is as available to the Priesthood bearer in the home performing his duties as the leader of his family, as it is to the Priesthood bearer in the operation of any other office or calling in the Church. Because of the importance of the family in its influence on the children as members of the Church, and society in general, the power and influence of the divine is, and always has been, within easy access to those who inquire and are worthy to receive this influence. It is living the gospel that brings the blessings of heaven.

OPERATION OF FAMILY LIFE
A JOINT PROJECT

By way of emphasis may we again call attention to the fact that the man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and that the fulness of the Priesthood is possible only through the sealing ordinance of a temple marriage. In such a marriage "the twain shall be one flesh." This being the case, it is logical to conclude that there is equal responsibility for the success of the family unit. The marriage we speak of is eternal, and the total experience of this life has a direct bearing on the nature of the eternal relationship.

DISTINCTIVE CALLINGS

In the operation of the family unit there should be no competi-

793

OCTOBER 1964

2. Are parents equally responsible for the success of their family?
3. Does the Priesthood in the home increase the parental responsibility? Explain.
4. What is the real test of character?
5. How important is the home in the development of citizenship?
6. What are the essentials of a success formula?

REFERENCES
Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 68, 121, 131, 132.
Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 7, 8, 9.
Widtsoe, John A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapter XVII.
