[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | January | Issue: 13 | Title: The Nobel Prize Winner | Author: —C. W. C]

THE NOBEL PRIZE WINNER.
	The Nobel Prize for literature for 1913
was awarded to Rabindra Nath Tagore, a
Bengali poet. The man thus honored is of
a notable Bengal family, famous both for
wealth and intellectual attainments.
	Born in 1860, Tagore’s first few years of
childhood were spent at Calcutta and in the
vastnesses of the Himalayas. At seventeen
he was sent to England, where he thorough-
ly acquainted himself with the English lan-


[Column 1]
guage and English literature. After return-
ing to the Orient he wrote a great deal for
magazines, but though this work held a
strong fascination for him, his remarkable
versatility early marked him as a poet, and
also showed his powers as an educator and a
philosopher as well as a journalist.
	Tagore’s early poetry shows marked ro-
manticism, probably caused by the influence
of the English romanticists, Byron and
Shelley. This sensualism became so great
in some cases that several of his early works
were discountenanced by the more conserv-
ative Bengali. We are told, and this is
probably one of the causes for his extreme
romanticism, that he returned from Europe
distinctly Epicurean; that he lived, for a
time, sumptuously, in the proverbial Ori-
ental magnificence, until the awakening of
his riper, greater powers revoked the sen-
sualist and called forth the higher spirit-
ualist.
	Tagore’s poetry, unlike the works of other
Oriental philosophers in his conception of
the Deity and Eternal love, is still more un-
like the works of any European or Amer-
ican poet. The lyric beauty and utter in-
dividuality of some of his lines reminds one
somewhat of our own Walt Whitman. But 
such high-mindedness, such grace and 
majesty, we find more suggestive of the
works of Dante and Milton. It may be re-
marked here, that judging from the sketches 
and paintings of Tagore, his face bears no
little resemblance to that of the great Italian
master, Dante.
	He is a born poet; a study of his lines re-
veals deep, meditative serenity. His words
are delicate and expressive with a charming
abundance of suggestiveness. His deep pa-
triotism is shown in these lines:
	“To thee, my motherland, I dedicate my
body, for thee I consecrate my life, for thee
my eyes will weep, and in thy praise my
music will sing.
	“Though my arms are helpless and power-
less, still they will do the deeds that can
only serve thy cause; and though my 
sword is rusty with disgrace, still it shall
sever thy chains of bondage sweet mother
of mine.”
	The MacMillan company has recently
published the works of Rabindra Nath Ta-
gore. These include “Gitanjali” (Song
Offerings), a collection of prose translations
made by the author from the original Ben-
gali; “The Gardener” (Poems of Youth) ;
“The Crescent Moon” (Child Poems); and
“Sadhana: The Realization of Life,” a vol-
ume of essays.
	In the following selections from the
Gitanjali we note a Psalm-like dignity, a
rich majesty suggestive of that other Ori-
ental poet, Omar Khayyam, a hint that
these works may be the key that shall un-
lock untold treasures of unwritten Oriental 
literature:

“ *	*	* The onrolling flood of the love
	eternal
Hath at last found its perfect final course.
All the joys and sorrows and longings of the
	heart, 
All the memories of the moments of ecstasy,
All the love lyrics of poets of all climes and
	times
Have come from thee everywhere
And gathered in one single love at thy feet.”
	“Where the mind is without fear and the
head is held high; 
	“Where knowledge is free;

[Column 2]
	“Where the world has not been broken up
into fragments by narrow domestic walls; 
	“Where words come out from the depth of
truth; 
	“Where tireless striving stretches its arms
toward perfection; 
	“Where the clear stream of reason has not 
lost its way into the dreary desert sand of dead
habit; 
	“Where the mind is led forward by thee into
everwidening thought and action—
	“Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let
my country awake”
							—C. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
