[WomansExponent | Vol14 | 1885 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: REASONING ON MORMONISM. | Author: Unknown]

	REASONING ON MORMONISM. 
			   --------
 The Latter-day Saints are the friends of man-
kind.  They love virtue, good order, morality,and
everything that will bring about a reform temporal-
ly and spiritually; this they endorse with all their
energy and good will. They love to do God’s
bidding and keep His holy commandments. In
all ages of the world God has chosen individuals
here on this earth to declare His word and pur-
poses concerning the inhabitants thereon.
  He has given a commandment to the Elders of
this Church, to go into all the world, to every
nation, tongue and people, and preach the Gospel;
“He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,
but he that believeth not shall be damned,” and
the signs shall follow them that believe. If the
signs follow the believer, then they have obeyed
the true Gospel. This is one proof they have,
for the same signs follow the Latter-day Saints as
the Former Day Saints.
  Another proof of the validity of this Gospel is
the knowledge of the true God that has been re-
vealed, which gives to His people eternal life.
St. John, 17th chapter, 3rd verse, "And this is
life eternal, that they might know Thee, the only
true God, and Jesus. Christ, whom Thou hast
sent.” And again, the Savior saith, “No one
knoweth the Son except the Father revealeth
Him. The Father said to Joseph Smith the
Prophet, “This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him.”
As the Father and Son stood before him, Joseph
Smith saw the only true God, whom the Latter-
day Saints worship, also His Son. I will here
give a description of these two personages in the
language of Joseph Smith, Book of Covenants,
Section 130, 22nd verse:
 “The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as
tangible as man’s; the Son also.” Then He is a
material being? And this is according to the
Bible teaching. Genesis, 26th verse, “And God
said, Let us make man in our own image after our
own likeness.” The Savior tried to impress upon
the minds of His disciples that he that saw Him
saw the Father, and said He was in the express
image of the Father. Probably they had a vague
idea of God as they worshiped idols then; as now
an imaginary god is worshiped—an immaterial
substance he is composed of. If I am conversing
with a friend,and they remind me of something of
not much importance, I reply, “It is quite immate-
rial to me.” Do they not understand this invisible,
incomprehensible being as a phantom,of not much
importance, it would be immaterial to take notice
of his immaterial majesty, if so, we can account
for the falling away from justice, and the non-
enactment of good and wholesome laws, and
for the great amount of crime that goes un-
punished.
  Out here in Utah we have a standing post of
Government soldiers. They are paid by “Uncle
Sam” to be idle, get drunk and disturb the peace;
there is no manner of use for them here. The

[Column 2]
only thing that is brought to notice here is poly-
gamy; our best busines men, with good sound
judgment, doing business in a straightforward,
honorable way, showing good, honorable treat-
ment to their households, courtesy and respect to
the opposite sex, are tried for good conduct. No
lady in Utah need fear an insult from these most
honorable gentlemen, who are the peers of those
who handle the proscriptive laws to persecute time-
honored, law-abiding citizens, and let rascals go
free, themselves to boot, if  justice was meted out;
sent here to break up an upright community, who
are trying to live by their hard-earned industry,
after struggling through privation and hardships,
and through many years of toil, have gathered a
small annuity to support their dependent families;
it is now wrenched from them; by whom?  An
official, that has not wiggled his little toe to earn
one dime of what he takes from his honest peer,
and thrusts him out of society, and deprives him of
his usefulness and his family of that support, that
they  are  entitled  to  receive.  I  say give
them the length of the rope and they will hang
themselves. Shame on such doings! What
wonderful logic, what great oratory, and what
swelling of words it takes to confirm in a sensible
mind where that great Edmunds law-abiding,
constitutional crime comes in. One would think,
naturally, that wise heads were getting scarce.
There must be a lack of weight in the brain.
There is no force in the law to quell. mob violence,
or put down secret society outbreaks; ruin is on
the verge of time.
  Ye officers of state, look well to home affairs;
let your eyes rest on sin of the blackest hue at
your own doors. Time is short, do not waste it
on Utah.  First make clean the inside of the
platter, and the Latter-day Saints will clean both
sides. “Of little meddling comes great ease."
				   MARY ANN M. PRATT.


