[WomansExponent | Vol14 | 1885 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

     MR. GEO. H. SCOTT, Local Agent for the
Geneva, New York, Nurseries, has arrived in the
city for the purpose of soliciting orders for fruit
trees and ornamental trees, shrubbery, etc., etc.,
for spring delivery of 1886. The Geneva nurseries
have been doing business in the northwest for
many years past, viz.: the Territories of Montana,
Dakota, Utah, etc., etc.  A large shipment will
be made here this fall.  The trees shipped here
to this section have been first class in every
respect, and in most cases are doing well, as the
testimonials published will show, and these few
represent the opinions of a great many people,
for the shipments have been large here for a num-
ber of years past.  Mr. Scott will take orders
principally for ornamental trees, shrubbery, plants,
etc., etc.  He makes this work a specialty.  Office
Central Block, West Temple. 
	SISTERS Minerva W. Snow and Elizabeth
Howard made a tour through parts of Emery
Co. in the month of October, via. the D. & R. G.
Railway.  They arrived in Price on Thursday
evening, Oct. 22nd, and went on to Huntington,
Friday, and held a general meeting there in the
afternoon, which was well attended; Bishops and
other brethren were present, as well as sisters.
Saturday they went over to Castle Dale, accom-
panied by Sister Ann Pulsipher, Coun. to Sister
Annie Larsen, Prest. of the Relief Society in that
Stake.  Here they were joined by the President
who resides in that place, remained there over
Sunday, attended the Sabbath meetings, and on
Monday held three meetings, one with each or-
ganization.  On Tuesday the sisters went over to
Moab and held a general meeting; then went on
to Feron, where they held three meetings, and
then to Orangeville, where they also held meetings,
and from there to Wilsonville, where they met
with the Relief Society and organized a Primary
Association.  From there they returned to Hunt-


ington, where they held three meetings, and came,
on as far as Price, where they stopped again and
organized the children in a Primary Association
in the forenoon, and in the afternoon attended a
meeting for the organization of a Relief Society
in that ward. In journeying through the Stake,
the sisters met with the utmost kindness from
Bishops, and many kind friends and acquaintances,
and were everywhere most hospitably entertained,
and enjoyed the trip very much indeed; also the
society of those with whom they traveled through
the settlements, and all whom they came in con-
tact with, and no doubt the visit of the sisters
will be productive of great good to the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. and Primary Associations, as it is
gratifying to get such practical instruction, as well
as spiritual, as can only be given verbally from
those who have had years of experience in teach-
iug and advising others.


[Column 1]
