[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 40 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Nimmo]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Oatmeal Box Violet Nimmo]
328  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY,   1962 
' '  T  TNDER  these  circumstances  we  at  the  Bowery  near  the  site  of  the 
were  constrained  to  bid  Temple,  I  saw  him  rejoicing  with 
adieu  to  the  Prophet  and  his  breth-  the  people,  perfectly  sociable  and 
ren,  and  hasten  our  departure  from  without  reserve,  occasionally  utter- 
Liberty.  My  sister  was  in  very  deli-  ing  jokes  for  their  amusement  and 
cate  health,  having  with  her  her  moving  upon  the  same  plane  with 
babe  only  three  months  old,  whom  the  humblest  and  poorest  of  his 
his  father  then  saw  for  the  first  friends;  to  him  there  were  no  strang- 
time.  (This  "babe"  became  Presi-  ers  and  by  all  he  was  known  as  the 
dent  Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  sixth  Prophet  and  friend  of  humanity. 
President  of  the  Church.)  ''I   saw  him  by  the  bed-side   of 
'The  next  time  I  saw  the  Prophet  Emma,  his  wife,  in  sickness,  exhibit- 
was  on  his  arrival  at  Ouincy,  Illi-  ing  all  the  solicitude  and  sympathy 
nois,  after  his  almost  miraculous  possible  for  the  tenderest  of  hearts 
escape  from  Missouri,  with  his  fel-  and  the  most  affectionate  of  natures 
low-prisoners,  in  April,  1839.  Soon  to  feel.  And  by  the  death-bed  of 
after  this,  arrangements  were  made  my  beloved  companion,  I  saw  him 
for  the  Saints,  who  had  been  ex-  stand  in  sorrow,  reluctantly  submit- 
pelled  from  Missouri,  to  settle  at  ting  to  the  decree  of  Providence, 
Commerce,  afterwards  Nauvoo,  while  the  tears  of  love  and  sym- 
where  I  became  more  intimately  ac-  pathy  freely  flowed.  Joseph  took 
quainted  with  the  Prophet,  in  charge  of  the  funeral  ceremonies, 
consequence  of  my  husband  being  strictly  adhering  to  my  husband's 
employed  as  his  secretary,  and  to  wish  that  there  should  be  no  mili- 
whom  the  Prophet  became  very  tary  or  other  display  at  his  burial  as 
much  attached,  so  much  so  that  one  had  been  but  a  short  time  before  on 
day  he  jocosely  said  to  me,  'Sister  the  occasion  of  the  burial  of  Jo- 
Thompson,  you  must  not  feel  bad  seph's  brother,  Don  Carlos,  both 
towards  me  for  keeping  your  hus-  having  been  officers  in  the  legion, 
band  away  from  you  so  much,  for  I  ''Don  Carlos  died  August  7,  1841, 
am  married  to  him';  they  truly  loved  Joseph's  little  son,  Don  Carlos,  died 
each  other  with  fervent  brotherly  about  August  18,  now,  Robert  B. 
affection.  Thompson,  his  faithful  secretary,  on 
"I  have  seen  the  Prophet  under  a  the   27th   of  the  same   month,   so 
great   variety   of   circumstances,   in  that  Joseph  could  feel  the  import 
public,  in  domestic  and  social  life  of  the  lines  of  Dr.  Young  addressed 
and  in  sacred  places.  to   death:    'Thy   shafts    flew   thrice 
"I  have  seen  him  as  if  carried  away  and  thrice  my  peace  was  slain.  .  .  .' 
by  the  power  of  God  beyond  all  "This  indeed  was  a  time  of  sor- 
mortal  conception,  when  speaking  to  row,    but    I    can    never   forget  the 
the  Saints   in   their  public  gather-  tender  sympathy  and  brotherly  kind- 
ings;  and  in  less  public  places  I  have  ness  he  ever  showed  toward  me  and 
heard  him  explaining  to  the  breth-  my  fatherless  child.     When  riding 
ren   and   sisters   the   glorious   prin-  with   him  and  his   wife   Emma  in 
ciples    of    the   gospel,    as    no    man  their  carriage,  I  have  known  him  to 
could,  except  by  prophetic  power.  alight  and  gather  prairie  flowers  for 
"In  a  social  gathering  of  the  Saints  my  little  girl.

SHE   KNEW   THE    PROPHET   JOSEPH    SMITH  329 
"I  have  been  present  at  meetings  urgent  request,  sent  after  them,  the 
of  the  Rehef  Society  and  heard  him  brothers   returned    to    Nauvoo    the 
give  directions  and  counsels  to  the  following  day.     Watching  from   a 
sisters,   calculated   to   inspire  them  chamber  window  I  saw  them  being 
to  efforts  which  would  lead  to  ce-  rowed   in   a   skiff  across   the   river, 
lestial  glory  and  exaltation,  and  oh!  until  they  landed,  and  walked  up 
how  my  heart  rejoiced!  the  river  bank  to  Hyrum's  house, 
where  they  both  entered,  Joseph  seat- 
"  A  T  another  time  —  at  a  time  ing    himself,    while    Hyrum    made 
never  to  be  forgotten  —  I  was  some  changes  in  his  clothing,  when 
present  at  a  meeting  when  Joseph  they  both  went  on  to  the  Mansion, 
knelt  down  with  the  small  congre-  '^Although  I  did  not  know  that 
gation  surroundmg  him,  when  every  ^^^  brothers  had  returned  home  to 
sentence  he  uttered  seemed  to  con-  ^^  ^^^tn  as  lambs  to  the  slaughter,' 
vey  to  my  mmd,  and  to  the  mmds  ^ly  feelings  were  indescribable,  and 
of   others   present,    the   mipression  ^j^^  ^^^^  ^^^  seemed  burdened  with 
that  this  was  our  last  meeting  to-  sorrowful  forebodings, 
gether  —  and  so  it  was. 
''A  few  days  after  this  he  called  '^^he    awful    scene    at    Carthage 
at  his  brother  Hyrum's  to  take  leave  followed  m  a  few  days,  and  here  al 
of  the  family  previous  to  their  cross-  "^^n  must  draw  the  veil    for  until 
ing  the  Mississippi  River,  intending  ^11  the  truth  concerning  these  good 
to  go  west  to  the  Rockv  Mountains  "len,  and  this  black  deed  of  their 
to  seek  out,  if  possible,  a  place  of  murderous    foes,   can   be  told   and 
peace  and  safety  for  the  Saints.   His  understood,  the  history  of  this  time
