[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Evelyn]
How to Give a Magazine To Someone Who Is Ill Evelyn Witter WHEN I was sick, many well-meaning friends brought me reading material. And of all the enjoyable periodicals I received, I enjoyed the one Bess Rogers brought me the most of all. The reason for my choice was that Bess "friendshipped" the stories for me with the notes and comments she wrote in the margins. For example: on one of the stories she wrote, ''This story has real good descriptions of faraway places. See if you don't think so, too." On another story she wrote this in the margin: "This one held me in I-couldhardly-breathe suspense. Not good to read before going to sleep!" Then on an article, Bess wrote: "If you want people to like you, and who doesn't — read this!" And so it went all through the magazine — comments and questions and opinions, all neatly written along the margins. It was like having a person-to-person visit with Bess on every page. Of interest seasoning to the reading. Her notes coaxed me to read the magazine and added a dash Now when I want to give something nice to a friend who is ill, I read my Magazine. Then I go through it again and write in my comments. Not until this thorough working over is done, do I give it to the person I have in mind. Friends who have received my notes in the Magazine margins have always thanked me heartily. A thank you note I received just this morning said: ""The notes you made on the margins made the reading extra fun. Thanks!" I Was Thinking Elsie C. Carroll I I was thinking what a blessing it is to be able to think, to remember, to dream. How limited our satisfactions would be if we couldn't recall what happened in the past, if we couldn't contemplate what is happening now, if we couldn't project in imagination what may happen in the future. With immeasurable speed the mind races from experience to experience in recalling the past, from thought to thought in considering, evaluating, or merely facing the present, and from one shining dream to another in peering into the future. I tried this little experiment. I glanced at the clock to note the time. Then I let my mind range where it would for ten minutes. Where did it go? Where didn't it go? In those ten minutes I lived over again, among other experiences, an early Christmas dawn when I could see in the dim light the shiny head of my first china doll peeping out of my hand-knit stocking hanging in front of an old adobe fireplace; a thrilling moment in an old log schoolhouse when my teacher handed me a corrected "'composition" with a beautiful "A" opposite my name; the burial of a pet kitten; a humiliating moment when I received my father's severest punishment for a wrongdoing: his sad eyes looking into mine and his kind voice saying, "Elsie, I didn't think you would do that"; happy days on a farm where I learned to ride horses, milk cows, and piece quilts from innumerable scraps of family dresses and shirts and aprons; wearing one of the prettiest Christmas dresses my mother ever made for me, and going to my first grownup dance; delivering the valedictory in high school commencement exercises; getting ready to go away to college; the supreme moment when I was asked to be the wife — of the boy who began sending me valentines when I was eight years old; our wedding day. Lights and shadows of memory passed swiftly over more than half a century in the brief span of ten minutes. If I had turned my mind to contemplate the present for ten minutes, thoughts would have raced just as swiftly from the problems, anxieties, joys, doubts and fears, satisfactions and hopes, that crowd into our lives each day. And, if I had focused it on the rosy-hued world of ambition, hopes, and dreams, it would have gone sailing away from one tremulous cloud to another, until I would not have known when the ten minutes were up and would have trouble bringing it back to reality, which the poet Browning calls ""The C Major of Life." Truly, one of the great blessings we are given with our lives is the power to remember, to contemplate, to dream. Page 347 Dare to Be Ditferent Mabel Law Atkinson time with the rhythm of old Bell's hoofs, as dear, familiar scenes glided by as she sat beside her father in the one-horse buggy on her way to the train that was to take her away to the first big adventure of her life. Every once in awhile she looked through the little window in the back of the buggv to see if her new brown tin trunk was still securely tied on. A small brown pasteboard suitcase, also new, was between her feet and the dashboard in front. Her first suitcase and her first trunk that spoke of her first real journey away from home. She was daydreaming of attending church the next morning in a faraway country town, and of beginning her teaching in a two-room country school the Monday following. Seventy-five dollars a month was to be her salary! Seventy-five dollars! And her first year of teaching! Why, at home she could only have received fifty dollars, and she would only be about eighty miles away! Eighty miles! Suddenly the distance seemed far, but she smiled resolutely as she mused, and I'll be home for Christmas! What presents I shall bring! Her Father's voice interrupted her thoughts, "My girl, I'm not one for preaching, as you know, but there are a few things I would sav to you by way of counsel: You know our Church standards. You may meet and mingle with people who do not live these standards. Dare to be different should the occasion demand. Page 348 Gin _Olney's thoughts kept Live as you know, my dear. You've been a good girl, Sara, and I have full confidence in you. I trust you to do the nght thing always." "Yes, Papa. I'm glad you have faith in me. But the community is a Latter-day Saint one. Mrs. Daugherty, where I shall board, is a good Church worker, the trustee told me. So I don't think I shall have anv hard decisions to make." "Perhaps not, my girl, but take your old father's advice in case you do." "Oh, I will, Papa. I've alwavs felt that what you said was right, you and Mama both." A half hour later when her trunk had been checked and she was cartying her suitcase ready to get on the train, she kissed her father goodbve, and said, laughingly, "Smile, Papa! Don't look so serious. I'll be home again you know, and I'll write each week, I promise. Don't worry, Papa." "Tm not really worrying, for I think I know my girl. But the fact that my oldest child is leaving home makes me a little sad. But I wouldn't hold you. Fledglings must leave the nest." "Yes, Papa, and you and Mama have given this fledgling strong wings, so let your eves twinkle before I leave." "All aboard!' sounded, and with a quick kiss, Sara walked up the train steps, found a seat, and waved through the window at her father. He watched the train until it was out of sight then began his journey DARE TO BE DIFFERENT homeward. A time or two tears filled his eyes and he murmured, "Our little Sara! Time has sped too fast." "Strange how one child going leaves such an emptiness even when we have seven more," Mr. Olney said to his wife that evening. "Not strange, Papa, for the heart that has expanded to make room for each one does not shrink. I just hope I have done all I should to make her strong enough to know and choose the right." "You have, Mama. I've often wondered at your ability to teach the principles of the gospel and the truths of life in simplicity as you have done from the time the children were infants. You haven't failed in any little way. I only hope I have done my part as well. Sara is a good girl, but she's going out into the world, and the world isn't home." "Sara will be all nght, Papa, I feel 'sure. But she may not spend wisely, not for a time. Why, I think I might even spend foolishly myself, if suddenly I found I had seventyfive dollars a month. But she'll pav her tithing, first of all, as she always has, so she'll come out all nght." "Yes, but she's so young and innocent and doesn't think Latter-day Saints would ever do wrong." ARA'S first letter was reassuring. It was filled with her joyous experiences of teaching her sixteen pupils in the first four grades, and of her good times with the folks she had met at Church and Mutual. She went on to say: Really, Papa, you don't need to worry. I'm recalling what you said to me as we drove to the train together. There's no 389 occasion at all, no need to dare to be different here, for the people I have met live their standards as we do. I've been in several of their homes and the gospel is lived, Papa. Her next letter eased their worries still more. Her parents read it eagerly, hurriedly, and reread parts of it over and over: I am now a teacher in the Sunday School and in Mutual as well. A small ward requires some people to hold more than one office. 'The young people are friendly and clean living. I was quite attracted to a young man who works for the bishop. He walked me home from Mutual last night. But, today, Mrs. Daugherty told me he is not a member of the Church, just a transient whom the bishop hired for the fall work. So I shall not go places with him. I feel certain he will ask me to go to the harvest dance next week, but I will decline sincerely and politely and tactfully, I hope. Some day he may join, who knows...? You see, I do remember your counsel, Papa. Remember when I began dating with Jed not knowing he was a non-Mormon? But you found out, Papa. It seems but yesterday, instead of a year ago, when I was sitting on your knee and hearing you say, "If you never go with nonmembers, you will never marry out of the Church." Then, how wise you were, for you continued, "I just wanted to let you know how I feel, now the decision is up to you." Of course, I stopped dating Jed. How could a daughter do otherwise with a father like you? UT it wasn't more than two weeks after Sara had written the letter that she had a different and startling experience. It was Saturday, and she had been invited to eat dinner, as the noon meal was called, at the home of two of her pupils. The family had the threshers, and the working men and the family ate together at one long table. To her surprise, she found her cup, along with those at the places of most of 350 the adults, was filled with coffee. When she did not drink it, the man across the table from her, a Mr. Watson, a member of the Church and a trustee on the school board, a middle-aged man with a large family, looked squarely into her eyes as he raised his cup and challenged, "T dare you!" Sara, who had never been afraid to accept a dare — in the right direction — said, "But I have never drunk tea or coffee in all my nineteen years. It was never served in my home. I'd rather not." "Come, be a sport," he urged her, "just this once." Again he lifted his cup, looked directly and compellingly at her. She met his gaze steadily for a long moment, lifted her cup from the table, held it for a few long seconds, then set it down and said, "I cannot." "You won't take a dare!" the challenger's voice was loud enough to carry throughout the house. Slowly and calmly Sara answered, "I would be a coward and a traitor to what I know is nght if I drank that coffee. I shall keep my record clean." You could have heard a pin drop in the silence that followed. Then Mr. Watson spoke, "I admire you for your dedication to the teachings of your parents and the Church. Would I had remained likewise true, for I was taught the same as you. I hesitate to think what my sainted mother in heaven must think — if she knows. Thank you, my dear, for daring to do right." At the supper table in the Olney home the next week, the entire family listened attentively as their time, and it has been so much fun! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 mother read Sara's letter aloud. She had read it to herself over and over in the afternoon. In it Sara gave a detailed account of the incident and expressed her appreciation for her family and the way of life she had been taught, both by precept and example. ITH the letter had come a check for thirty-five dollars. Stapled to it, was a note which read: I've planned this for a long Each month you will receive the same to. Help out a bit. You will need it, with Linda in college this year.... Yes, I'll have plenty without it. My board and room cost me twenty dollars a month, which leaves me twenty dollars for clothes and other things I desire. Just my _ little "thank you," and I want to do it. Surprise! Mama stopped reading and the children cheered, "Hurrah for Sara!" Linda's eyes were shining. "IT haven't read the P. S. Yet." Mama was beaming with happiness as she did so: I almost left out the very best part: I saw Mrs. Watson in the store yesterday. She was so happy she cried as she thanked me. She told me her husband had come home Saturday evening and said, "Throw out the tea and coffee, Martha. It will not be served in our home again." So you see, Papa and Mama, the wavelets from the stone of truth you have cast upon the waters for your family have reached outward into the stream of life for others. "How beautiful, Papa!" There was awe in Mama's voice "So you see, my dear, we needn't worry about Sara." Papa's eyes were lighted by an inward glow as he said, "Sara is a good daughter." For Mother's Day Dorothy J. Roberts ete ete Het ee te ae te ae fe le ae te ae et $ When I see a rose of red, I think of you, 4, Or when I see an apron, starched and new, "* Or a perfectly proportioned loaf of bread, - A snowy tablecloth, a blessing said, és. I think of childhood and the years between, 2. You, love-bent there among the summer's green. $e When I think of virtue, a woman's fame, > Then I recall your hands, your face, your name. Pe le le he ie ie ip ee he Se ae he ee ea Se ee Gh a he The Reward of a Thing Well Done Caroline Eyring Miner l remember a motto that once appeared on our school bulletin, which said, "The reward of a thing well done is to have done it." I do not know who wrote it, but I do know that I believe it. If you have made a tasty cake, you know it, and no one needs to tell you, for you sense the joy in the accomplishment and your knowledge of it. If you have typed a paper perfectly, the reward for you is in the knowledge of that fact and the satisfaction of work well done. A seamstress glories in the beautiful garment she has made; the teacher in the growth and accomplishment of her class members. The little pin or the word of commendation or the certificate is pleasant enough to receive, but the real reward for achievement is in the joy of knowing one has been adequate to the challenge placed before him. As this is true in little accomplishments, it is true in life itself. The greatest reward we will have in the celestial kingdom will be the knowledge within ourselves that we have kept the commandments, that we have kept the faith. And I think our condemnation and eternal sorrow, on the other hand, may well be the knowledge within ourselves that we failed to do the things we knew to be right. There is no joy in receiving unearmed praise. It has a false ring, and it cannot make up for the inner dissatisfaction a person has within himself when he has performed below his capacity. He can't be fooled. Parents and teachers should very early teach young people to do their tasks thoroughly and beautifully that they may know throughout their lives that the reward for achievement is in the fact of worthy achievement itself. Page 351 My Mother's Hands Esther H. Lamb ONIGHT,, after a trip of eight hundred miles, I am with my mother here in the house of my birth in which she is beginning her ninety-fifth year of wholesome living. From the comfort of her little rawhide-bottomed rocker, she received me with glad eyes and a smile of love. Her hands which must now content themselves with resting tidily in her lap are dearly familiar and _ work blessed. Her hands! They serve as a magic lens to bring to the screen of my memory vivid pictures of yesteryear. 'They alone have power to wind backward the film of life and make me ten years old again. All home with me are my brothers and sisters. It is Saturday evening. Snowflakes are pushing against our lace-curtained windowpanes in an effort to tuck us in protectively from the wind's cold breath. Our large, pleasant home has been cleaned with special care for the Sabbath day. The smell of Sunday's dinner, already prepared, is tantalizing, even though we have eaten supper and are relaxed cozily for a few last minutes before we go to our cold bedrooms to snuggle under mother's homemade quilts. We listen soberly to another chapter from Church history, read aloud by our father. Then, with some squirmings and attempted evasions, we submit to his attempts to check on our behavior of the day. As though he does not know! Page 352 The happiest moments come when he expresses pride in us and with stern kindness suggests ways of improvement. We draw closer to him as he takes the youngest of us on his lap, and with his stockinged feet tapping in accent, he sings for us songs of repetitious melody, coupled to lyrics many verses long, stories of delight or tragedy. Our mother's hands are busy, moving deftly as when she kneaded bread early in the morming. She kneels near the newspaper-protected hearth beside a long row of washed, high-topped shoes. We are proud owners of one pair each, and for Sunday meetings they must shine as shoes never shone before. Being mistress of this act, mother uses a curved-handled brush equipped with a pompon of bristles on one side. 'This she dips into spicy vinegar, then touches it lightly to the soot that clings in black flakes to the chimney throat, and applies it to each shoe. Now, with swift strokes from the opposite side of the brush, our shoes are shined to mirror smoothness. Though we know nothing about Who's Who in polttics, this vinegar and soot treatment is spoken of as Democratic Shoe ~ Blacking. I watch as mother places in the top of each pair of shoes, long, black, wool stockings her nimble fingers have knitted. Then, stitch upon stitch, with fascinating speed, she manipulated the shining needles that whispered in soothing rhythm. MY MOTHER'S HANDS The fre burns low. Our grotesque shadows on the wall blend with the night.... We are secure in this peaceful home. My evening in memory is finished. The film rolls forward identifying yesteryear with the present. Mother raises her hands to touch my cheek. Hands that have grown strong, then 353 old, from the tasks of pioneer days to this electronic age. Yet they must accept one more task — to lie patiently as she looks at her unused workbasket beside her chair, and wait. My mother's hands — in them God placed his most beautiful tool, service. O> Mine for Keeps Ida Elaine James Two portable blossoms Sprang up in my yard — Two brightly ginghamed children Looking at me hard. I went on with my raking, Gave them a casual smile; One fumbled in her pocket - A little while For a gaudy egg she had colored, Held it close to me. Praisefully 1 nodded: "Pretty as can be." Leaned nearer just to please her — "Why, it's the very blue Of your pretty little apron; Is it new?" The egg slipped in my pocket — They hippety-hopped on air. It was then I stopped my raking, To say an Easter prayer. Patio Breakfasts for Summertime Linnie Fisher Robinson Menu I Pancakes With Pineapple or Strawberry Sauce — Sausage or Ham Milk or Chocolate PANCAKES 2 ¢. Flour 1 c. Butter or margerine 6 tbsp. Sugar (or less, as desired) pinch of salt 1 c. Light cream or evaporated milk 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 eggs (or fewer, if shortening is reduced ) water, if needed Combine salt, sugar, and baking powder with the flour. Add butter and eggs and beat until smooth. Add cream, and a little water, if the batter is not thin enough to spread out for cooking. Cook about 3 tbsp. Of batter in large pan, skillet, or griddle. Use only a small amount of butter to grease pan. Cook on medium heat until golden brown. 'Turn and cook the other side. If you are cooking for a large crowd, have more cooks and serve as you cook. As soon as the pancakes are done, spread with fruit filling and serve topped with whipped cream. PINEAPPLE FILLING Make your favorite cream filling. When cold, add crushed pineapple (drained as you do for cream pie) and spread between pancakes. Top with sweetened whipped cream. STRAWBERRY FILLING 8 c. Fresh strawberries 3 tbsp. Butter 2 OF 3 c. Sugar (to taste) 3 drops red food coloring, 1 C. Water if desired Y, c. Cornstarch mixed with water Wash, drain, and hull the berries. Sort out the finest and set aside for topping. (I usually set aside half of them.) Crush or mash the other half, add water and sugar, and bring to a boil. Add cornstarch mixed in a little water and thicken. Add butter and red food coloring, if color is not as bright as the other berries. When almost cool, add the remaining berries and spoon onto the pancakes. Top with cream and serve. Recipe serves 15 to 18. Menu II Molded Chicken in Gelatine Hot Baked Green Beans Frozen Orange Soda MOLDED CHICKEN IN GELATINE cooked, cubed meat from one large 1 bunch (more or less as desired) chicken I green onions minced fine 4 c. Stock (You cannot get this much 11 c. Celery cubed fine stock from one chicken and have it 1 c. Small peas (sifted, canned peas) taste good, so if you haven't more 1 small can or jar pimento, sliced stock on hand, make some from _ salt and pepper to taste chicken bouillon cubes.) salad dressing, to taste 4 envelopes gelatine (unsweetened and whipping cream, as desired unflavored ) Page 356 SURFSIDE LUNCHEON THEME 359 Turn into greased shells and place shells on a cooky sheet. Bake in a very hot oven fifteen minutes or until bubbly hot and golden crusted. Remove from oven and serve immediately. THE DOMINO EFFECT Celia Larsen Luce A® a child I used to set the dominoes carefully on end in a straight row. Then, when I tipped over the end one, all the rest would fall, too. Now that I am grown, I watch another domino effect. If I start the day with a frown and a grumpy feeling, soon everyone around me is growling, too. If I put on a smile, whether I feel like smiling or not, soon there are smiles around me. Since my moods have this domino effect, I had better try to make it a good effect. ~ — «ee woe RAS Rhubarb Recipes Grace V. Price RHUBARB CAKE c. Shortening 2 c. Sifted flour c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cut raw rhubarb beaten egg ' ¢. White sugar - c. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Cinnamon tsp. Soda Cream together shortening and brown sugar. Add beaten egg. Add alternately buttermilk, soda, and flour. Fold shubarb in lightly. Spread in greased and floured pan. Sprinkle top with white sugar anc cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 30 to 35 minutes. RHUBARB CRUMBLE c. Cut fresh rhubarb % ¢. Flour c. Sugar 1 c. Quick oats c. Flour 44 c. Margarine or butter tsp. Salt "2 tsp. Salt tsp. Cinnamon 3 tbsp. Water c. Brown sugar Mix together rhubarb, sugar, flour, and salt. Place in buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Mix separately brown sugar, flour, oats, butter, and salt. Pour over rhubarb mixture as a topping. Sprinkle with wate:. Bake at 350° for about 40 minutes. Serve warm or cold, plain, or with sour cream, whipped cream, ice cream, or cheese. - 1% Y, V, 2% RHUBARB TAPIOCA c. Sugar 2% ¢c. Water c. Minute tapioca 3 drops red color, if desired tsp. Salt 1 c. Crushed pineapple c. Cut raw rhubarb Combine sugar, tapioca, salt, rhubarb, water, and coloring. Cook over medium heat stirring constantly until full boil. Cool. To avoid crusting over stir occasionally during cooling. Add pineapple. Chill and serve. Page 360 RHUBARB RECIPES 361 PALE PINK BUT BRIGHT (Other Uses for Rhubarb) BREAKFAST DRINK To one quart of rhubarb juice (home canned stewed rhubarb juice, strained or blended, sweetened as desired) add juice of one or two oranges, or one pint of pineapple juice, or both. Chill and serve. Party PuNcH Use as above, adding one bottle of your favorite lemon-lime beverage and three or four drops of red coloring. Garnish with orange slices or strawberries. A sprinkle of strawberry or raspberry punch powder is good instead of coloring. Toprins FOR IcE CREAM OR PLAIN CAKE 4% c. Cut raw rhubarb 1 pkg. Strawberry gelatine 4 c. Sugar Simmer together rhubarb and sugar. Add and dissolve gelatine. Keep covered and cool for serving. (May be sealed in bottles while hot.) Party Christie Lund Coles Small girl, just four, (and a half year over) Dainty and sweet As rain-fresh clover; Nodding and smiling, Inviting me To your small table To taste, to see; Telling me news Of your doll land: Suzie has measles, You can't understand Where Mary has gone? (She's by the door.) Such a lovely party, Child, half-past four. A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 363 Patchwork Apron and Pot Holder I BeRE is an economical pattern as welcome at the bridal shower as in your own kitchen. It is a good idea for using your bright new scraps, too. I WHAT YOU NEED: i 49 patches, each 34" square, of printed cotton, as varied as possible. 1 yard of plain colored cotton broadcloth. 2 squares of flannelette, each 6/4" by 6%". Thread to match the cotton broadcloth. Some six-strand embroidery floss in various colors. TO MAKE APRON: Allow '4" seams. 1. Sew 45 patches together in 10 strips, as shown in Figure 1. The broken line icates the stitching line for the border and waistband. 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 iil: a lpateh " 2- ~3patches 7 Ly eee) 3-5 Z AIG) 7 4 te 5-6 " ra ote: C 6-6 7 4 a. A" 7-6 " < 7 Sn ~ 8-6 _: a © 9-4 uo i. « 10-2 « Figure 1 right side Gamma bo a @ Figure 2 2. From broadcloth, cut 2 border strips 3" by 13/2", 1 border strip 3" by 35%", a waistband 3" by 18", 2 ties 32" by 35", and a lining to fit the bordered patch section. 3. Sew the short border strips to the short edges of patched section, the long strip to one long edge as shown in Figure 2. Trim off extending points of patches and press the border out flat. 4. Using three strands of floss, stitch along each seam of the patches with varied embroidery stitches in colors to contrast with patches. Use the blanket stitch, lazy daisy, or whatever you desire. 'To make apron really lovely, you can highlight the print in the patterns by embroidering the flowers that are in the pieces, or even sew sequins or other fancy things on the designs. 5- With right sides together, stitch the lining and the patched piece together around the three plain-colored edges. 'Turn right side out and press. On the raw edge, run two lines of gathering stitches across the top, catching lining as well as patched front. Trim off the points of the patches. 6. Make a narrow machine hem on the long edges of the ties. Fold and stitch one end, turn to the right side to form a point. Pleat the other end down to 1". Baste. 7. Fold waistband in half lengthwise. Slip tie ends between ends, raw edges even. Stitch and turn to right side. 8. Pin right side of waistband to right side of apron, ends and centers matching. Pull up gathering threads to fit waistband. Distribute the gathers evenly. Baste and stitch. Turn in raw edge of waistband, slipstitch over seam on the wrong side A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 365 TO MAKE POTHOLDER: 1. Sew 4 patches together to form a square. Press seams open. 2. Cut matching square from broadcloth. Lay on top of each other the squares of broadcloth, the 2 flannelette squares, and the patches right side up. Stitch all together along the seams of the patches. Cover patch seams with embroidery stitches.. From broadcloth cut a bias strip 1%" by 36". Turn the edges over ¥%," and press. Stitch all around the edges of the potholder for a binding.. To make a loop, cut a 6" length of bias. Fold it in half lengthwise. Stitch the edges together. Fold in half crosswise to form a loop. 'Tack ends of loop to corner of potholder, with loop pointed in toward center, stitch securely. Gracious Living Celia Luce \, JE continually read in advertisements, buy this or that for gracious living. What we seem to forget is that gracious living is the kind of living done by gracious people. It is not something to be bought or built or secured by keeping up with anyone. Gracious living comes only when we develop consideration, order, and the knack of spreading happiness. Things do not bring gracious living. People do. Mind Cleaning Nancy M. Armstrong 2) SING housecleaning, we remove everything from closets and drawers, returning only those articles which still have value. The useless, we discard. Just so can we clean the mind, keeping the good, the beautiful, the optimistic, and the useful thoughts, and disearding the bad, the ugly, the pessimistic, and the useless. In our homes, we entertain whom we choose. In our minds, we entertain what we choose. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of Callifornia. 'The house is owned by 'Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. Tommy Benedict. « young boy from an unhappy home, visits Nina at times. She tries to help him into a better life adjustment. At the request of 'Tomas Novarro, Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Joseph shows gradual, but consistent improvement, and Nina feels a deep satisfaction. Dr. Jonathan continues to call and becomes interested in Nina. { OMAS Novarro came home T on one of the hottest September days in California history. Nina, unaware of his artival, had taken small Joseph and 'Tommy to the beach. Joseph had come to love the sea with a small boy's passion for sound and motion. Nina had to watch him every second or he would have been out beyond his depth. She could not understand this heedlessness of danger in one who once trembled at the sound of running water. Joseph had come a long way. He was really talking now, sometimes long furious sentences that were not always clear — but he was talking. Nina leaned back on the beach towel on her elbows and watched his slight form skimmering into the surf. He looked back to her and waved, and Tommy, beside him, Page 366 gave her a reassuring gesture of the hand. Nina waved and then flopped over on her stomach still watching. A great peace filled her, a sense of having had a hand in a momentous creation. Or an isolated, rare experience. What could compare to this that she had witnessed, the opening of a mind, the breaking of a barrier, the thready beginning, the communication of one human being to his immediate world. It had been verv good. Joseph unloosed himself from Tommy's hand and, clutching his bucket, ran up from the ocean. "I found " he shouted, "I found a whale!" Nina peered at the captive sea horse. "Well, not quite a whale, Joseph, but it's a sea horse and they're strictly wonderful." Joseph was charmed. "Sea horse... Sea horse." Nina kissed his bright, soft hair. He flung his arms about her. "It's for you, my present." He fished the sea horse out and laid its clammy coldness in her palm. Tommy trotted up to fling himself down beside them. "It's hot even down here, wish I had brought my board." "You've had a lot of fun with it, haven't you?" "Yeah, all the fellows have. We're going on a beach cookout next Friday, all the fellows." He poured sand SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES through his fingers. "I like Mutual, all but the religious part." "Why don't you like that?" "Oh my brother says it's all a lot of stuff." He dropped the sand and looked into her face. "I get so tired of thinking and wondering about things. How come you're so sure there's a God? Lots. Of people say there isn't one, and they're smarter than you even." Nina swallowed. 'Tommy's bluntness took a little getting used to. "Tm just sure, that's all." "Even my schoolteacher says there isn't one, and he's been to Russia and everywhere and he_ knows things.", Nina sat up. "If you wanted to know if somebody lived in a house, what would you do, Tommy?" He considered, stretching _ his young bones gladly on the sand. "I guess I'd go up and knock. If somebody lived there I guess they'd come to the door." "Prayer is knocking," Nina said. "Prayer!" "Swim!" insisted Joseph, turning to the sea. "No, not now. Let's have cook- »? Ies." She passed them around. OMMY ate in silence for a long time. Nina was beginning to think he had left the topic and gone on to other things, but he turned to her suddenly. "You've knocked, or you wouldn't know about knock- >> "Yes." He looked at her critically. "All right, then why do you have so much trouble, if you know he's there? Other people have lots more 367 of other things than you, a real lot more." "If you have him," Nina said, "you don't need lots of things. You don't need lots. Of pleasures. You can even take a good, long siege of trouble, because knowing he's there gives everything a reason... You see?" He looked at her angrily. "You're different. He wouldn't come. For just anybody." Nina wiped her hands on the towel. "Tommy, don't ask me about these things. Go find out for yourself, if you really want to know, if you're willing to know that he lives." He was instantly suspicious. "What do you mean. Willing?" "There's an obligation in knowing,' she said. Tommy was truculent. "I'm going body surfing... You watch Joseph for awhile." Nina watched him make his way to the sea. She was disturbed. I did it badly, she thought. I was overanxious. I sound harsh and I mean to be tender. Joseph, on a mischievous impulse, poured sand in the cookie box. Nina, catching him at it, gave him a resounding smack on his posterior. "So this is how you treat my son?" She whirled. 'Tomas Novarro stood above her, a furious scowl on his dark face. Nina wanted to sit back and wail loudly. She had pictured all sorts of tender scenes when 'Tomas came home. She glared back at Tomas with blue blazing eyes. "Well if he's going to behave this way, he deserves to be spanked." 368 "So," said Tomas and sank down to the sand and held his arms out to the boy. "She is cruel to you, I hear." Joseph, bellowing like a young bull, flung himself into Nina's arms for comfort. "Very well," said Nina with a firm voice, "but if you do it again, Joseph, you will get another one." "I am very good," Joseph insisted. He sniffed and wiped his eyes with the back of his hands. He smiled a little at 'Tomas. "Come here, boy." 'Tomas pulled a package from his pocket: "I brought you a present." It was a silver whistle. Joseph was charmed. He settled himself on his father's knees and made the air about him painfully shmill. TOMAS looked at Nina. "Doctor Jonathan is right, my son is getting well." "He certainly is." Nina was immensely proud. She drew Joseph to her. Now she wanted to show him off. She wanted him to catch the ball, which he would not; to talk, which he would not. Joseph would only toot the little silver whistle. Novarro threw back his head and laughed. It was a joyous sound. "He is like me, stubborn. Every Novarro is stubborn." He picked the boy up in his arms and held him, nuzzling him while the boy bellowed, suddenly afraid. "He isn't used to." She had almost said strangers. She hastily amended it to "people." "He'll be all right after awhile." "Of course he will!" Novarro swung the boy to his shoulder. "Come along, little pig... There RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 is an ice-cream man down the beach. I passed him." They went away from her. Nina sat back on her heels. She was very tired. She was alone, as she had never been alone before. She was afraid, as she had never been afraid before. After her father had died, there had been Danny, but when Danny had gone, there was no one. Now in the darkness of this moment she grieved toward Danny, willing him to return at this time of her need, but common sense told her that Danny had gone completely and irrevocably away. His letters were brief, impatient notes, at longer and longer intervals. He was caught up in the business of becoming a doctor, in his love for the girl he had found, in the charm of her large and joyous family. Nina sensed that he shrank from the memory of the long and lonely years with her, that he felt his boyhood had been a thwarted, orphan thing. Now that she knew the pain of losing the people she loved, she shrank from entering again into the painful places, the nostalgic memories, the silence where once there had been a quick, demanding voice, the adjustment within herself to the firmly closed door. Panic seized her. She half rose. She would not let them take Joseph away from her. This was different. The child needed her. Hadn't she stayed up night after night with him to help him overcome his fear of the dark? Hadn't she taught him, hour after hour, with little games and songs and poems to talk, to count, to sing, to communicate? She had taught him tenderness with the small white kitten that had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES grown into the great self-sufficient cat. Joseph was hers, peculiarly so. She had brought him into life as surely as his mother had done. Away from her, he might revert to the silence and the fear-walled withdrawal. Nina stumbled to her feet and ran in the direction 'Tomas had taken with his son. She did not notice when the waves came up and washed her running feet. She fled like the wind among gulls and scattering children, crying aloud for Joseph. She came on them suddenly, around a bend, the man and the boy, sitting on the rocks absorbed in the busy scurrying of a sandpiper. "Joseph!" She flung herself beside the child, encircled him, leaned her face against his warm, soft shoulder. The small boy submitted gladly to her fierce embrace. "I love you, Mamma Nina. Don't cry." She was afraid to lift her head. She could not bear to have 'Tomas Novarro see her tears. He would be impatient and scornful. She tried to wipe her face surreptitiously, but Tomas thrust his handkerchief into her hand. "My bank tells me I am a very rich man now," he said, "and it is true that I have been able to buy many things but never tears that are shed in love." He rose abruptly and walked away down the beach. After awhile Joseph became impatient. "Somebody will eat our cookies. Let's go back." Tommy had taken his fins and gone home, but Tomas waited for them beside the beach towel. "It's time to go," Nina said. 369 They worked together in silence, folding the beach towels, packing away the sun tan lotion and the cookies and thermos bottle. Nina took Joseph's hand, and the three of them plodded across the sand and climbed the palisade where the car was parked. She had wondered if 'Tomas would take Joseph now. But he helped Joseph into her battered car. Nina sighed with relief. She clambered quickly under the wheel, feeling her spirits rise. OMAS came around to her side and leaned on the car door. "When I was a child," he said, "my world collapsed. My father and my mother quarreled frightfully and often. I overheard my mother's cries of anguish. She blamed my father because they must sell so much of the land. I began to imagine things... Dreadful things... -Lhere was no one to assure me. 'The day came when I could endure it no longer. I had a boat." His eves smiled down into hers. "It was a very small boat, as I see it now, but then it looked as large to me as an ocean liner. It had a sail, and I decided to cast off and head for." He shrugged. His eyes twinkled. "There are no islands to compare with those in a_ boy's mind,' he said. "On my way to China I stopped at my grandmothers house, where you live now, to tell her goodbye." He laughed in remembrance. "Not to tell her I was running away." He looked rueful. "I didn't need to tell her. She knew. She knew because she loved me, and though she said little in words, interiorly we conversed." 370 Nina looked up in surprise, but he was looking past her to the sea. She studied his face. It was difficult to imagine this great granite man as a boy, troubled and 'lost. "Interiorly we conversed," he went on, a curious gentleness in his voice. "My grandmother's love spoke to me of peace and patience and the need for faith. It was because she was those things that she could plead without words. She made a supper for me, and we ate together and afterwards I went back. I put aside the islands." Nina gripped the wheel. What was it he was trying to tell her? What did he intend this story to do to her? He rubbed his harsh jaw with his fingertips. "When I saw that no amount of money could help Joseph, when I saw the wisdom of the learned fall in defeat, I remembered my grandmother and that evening." Nina was dismayed. It was so easy to dislike people with a quick inward self-righteousness, and then they betrayed you by being suddenIv better than you, or stronger, or wiser. She had had contempt for Tomas Navarro, and all the time he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 had been searching for a way for his son. She said, "I feel very humble that you should have trusted me. I didn't know." He put his hand over hers. "When I read about you in the paper, I thought, what kind of woman is this, who would come to the defense of a child?" "You did?" She felt healed. "I thought everyone who read the article would think me a fool." "No." He moved his hand to the head of Joseph, who had dropped off to sleep. "I was already thinking about talking to you when I met you on my own land... That dav, when you were lost." She took a deep breath. "And now?" He looked from her to the sleeping child. "Doctor Jonathan tells me I must not take him away at once, that the three of us must be friends for a time, until I have won Joseph to me." He stood back. "T cannot thank you with money, Miss Karsh, but I give you my grandmother's house. She will approve of that." (To be concluded) > Wait for Me, Sun Mabel Jones Gabbott The bluest of skies hangs overhead, An inverted bowl with not even a chip: The day awaits: unwritten, unread. This length of hours too soon will slip Into tomorrow. Wait for me, sun, While I put in my pocket a bit of song, And love enough for everyone, With a sparkle of humor to go along Into each hour, for I shall live This day but once. I have much to give. I Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA Girls Py SCHEL Kirkham Wanlass, Monroe, Utah, makes exquisite gifts for MIA girls. Each girl in the community, as she enters Mutual, is presented with a lovely knitted doilie. Some of the young men also receive doilies to keep for their future homes, and the missionaries are remembered with these lovely gifts. Many homes in Monroe are adorned with handwork made by Mrs. Wanlass. She has knitted more than 850 doilies. Also, in many homes, the draperies are decorated with an exquisite crocheted snowflake made by Mrs. Wanlass. Her other hobbies are numerous and varied. She has knitted several bedspreads in skilled sculptured patterns, and she has knitted the lace for hundreds of pairs of pillowcases. Her handwork has won twenty-seven blue ribbons and many other awards in Sevier County fairs. She loves flowers and her home is made cheerful and inviting by many house plants. Mrs. Wanlass has spent all the years of her womanhood in Relief Society work and in making people happy. She has been a visiting teacher for fifty-three years and is still making her visits regularly and faithfully. She is the last to leave the work meetings and is noted as an expert quilter. Six of her eight children are still living, and she is a devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Page 3/1 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 NCE, again the General Board takes opportunity to express its gratitude and appreciation to the dedicated and devoted women who have been instrumental in placing The Relief Society Magazine in so many of our Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world, and also in the homes of other lovely women who appreciate the good and beautiful in life. Especially do we express appreciation to the Magazine representatives in stakes and wards, missions and branches, for their zealous and untiring efforts, and to the Relief Society presidencies and other officers and teachers who have given their loyal support and encouragement. Surely the Lord is pleased with his faithful daughters who have so diligently magnified their calling. Thanks must also be expressed to our thousands of sisters who subscribe to the Magazine, thereby evidencing their appreciation of Relief Society itself, and of the Magazine, the "voice" of Relief Society which brings so much knowledge and pleasure, beauty and spirituality into our lives. In expressing appreciation, we must not forget the many gift subscriptions so thoughtfully and generously provided the General Board for distribution to the missions of the Church by individual sisters and by stake, ward, and branch organizations. Sisters, we thank you Page 372 for these subscriptions. We are sure you will feel well repaid for your generosity and kindness in the knowledge that many hearts have been touched by the messages and inspiration contained in the Magazine, and that a number of conver-: sions to the gospel have resulted. You will be happy to know that the total number of Magazine subscriptions in 1961 was 183,236, compared with 171,002 in 1960, for an increase of 12,234. 'There were 303 stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of nineteen over the 1960 total of 284. The mean of all the stakes was ninety-three per cent, which is an increase of one per cent over 1960. The highest stake was again the South Los Angeles, for the fifteenth consecutive year, with a percentage of 226. It also had the largest number of subscriptions, with a total of 1,641. Of the ten highest stakes, the first four places were taken by stakes in California. Others in the top ten included one stake in Arizona, two in Idaho, one in Canada, one in Nevada, and one in Utah. Ther