[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Patio | Author: Robinson]
Patio Breakfasts for Summertime Linnie Fisher Robinson Menu I Pancakes With Pineapple or Strawberry Sauce — Sausage or Ham Milk or Chocolate PANCAKES 2 ¢. Flour 1 c. Butter or margerine 6 tbsp. Sugar (or less, as desired) pinch of salt 1 c. Light cream or evaporated milk 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 eggs (or fewer, if shortening is reduced ) water, if needed Combine salt, sugar, and baking powder with the flour. Add butter and eggs and beat until smooth. Add cream, and a little water, if the batter is not thin enough to spread out for cooking. Cook about 3 tbsp. Of batter in large pan, skillet, or griddle. Use only a small amount of butter to grease pan. Cook on medium heat until golden brown. 'Turn and cook the other side. If you are cooking for a large crowd, have more cooks and serve as you cook. As soon as the pancakes are done, spread with fruit filling and serve topped with whipped cream. PINEAPPLE FILLING Make your favorite cream filling. When cold, add crushed pineapple (drained as you do for cream pie) and spread between pancakes. Top with sweetened whipped cream. STRAWBERRY FILLING 8 c. Fresh strawberries 3 tbsp. Butter 2 OF 3 c. Sugar (to taste) 3 drops red food coloring, 1 C. Water if desired Y, c. Cornstarch mixed with water Wash, drain, and hull the berries. Sort out the finest and set aside for topping. (I usually set aside half of them.) Crush or mash the other half, add water and sugar, and bring to a boil. Add cornstarch mixed in a little water and thicken. Add butter and red food coloring, if color is not as bright as the other berries. When almost cool, add the remaining berries and spoon onto the pancakes. Top with cream and serve. Recipe serves 15 to 18. Menu II Molded Chicken in Gelatine Hot Baked Green Beans Frozen Orange Soda MOLDED CHICKEN IN GELATINE cooked, cubed meat from one large 1 bunch (more or less as desired) chicken I green onions minced fine 4 c. Stock (You cannot get this much 11 c. Celery cubed fine stock from one chicken and have it 1 c. Small peas (sifted, canned peas) taste good, so if you haven't more 1 small can or jar pimento, sliced stock on hand, make some from _ salt and pepper to taste chicken bouillon cubes.)