[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: A Song | Author: Thulin]
A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 363 Patchwork Apron and Pot Holder I BeRE is an economical pattern as welcome at the bridal shower as in your own kitchen. It is a good idea for using your bright new scraps, too. I WHAT YOU NEED: i 49 patches, each 34" square, of printed cotton, as varied as possible. 1 yard of plain colored cotton broadcloth. 2 squares of flannelette, each 6/4" by 6%". Thread to match the cotton broadcloth. Some six-strand embroidery floss in various colors. TO MAKE APRON: Allow '4" seams. 1. Sew 45 patches together in 10 strips, as shown in Figure 1. The broken line icates the stitching line for the border and waistband. 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 iil: a lpateh " 2- ~3patches 7 Ly eee) 3-5 Z AIG) 7 4 te 5-6 " ra ote: C 6-6 7 4 a. A" 7-6 " < 7 Sn ~ 8-6 _: a © 9-4 uo i. « 10-2 « Figure 1 right side Gamma bo a @ Figure 2 2. From broadcloth, cut 2 border strips 3" by 13/2", 1 border strip 3" by 35%", a waistband 3" by 18", 2 ties 32" by 35", and a lining to fit the bordered patch section. 3. Sew the short border strips to the short edges of patched section, the long strip to one long edge as shown in Figure 2. Trim off extending points of patches and press the border out flat. 4. Using three strands of floss, stitch along each seam of the patches with varied embroidery stitches in colors to contrast with patches. Use the blanket stitch, lazy daisy, or whatever you desire. 'To make apron really lovely, you can highlight the print in the patterns by embroidering the flowers that are in the pieces, or even sew sequins or other fancy things on the designs. 5- With right sides together, stitch the lining and the patched piece together around the three plain-colored edges. 'Turn right side out and press. On the raw edge, run two lines of gathering stitches across the top, catching lining as well as patched front. Trim off the points of the patches. 6. Make a narrow machine hem on the long edges of the ties. Fold and stitch one end, turn to the right side to form a point. Pleat the other end down to 1". Baste. 7. Fold waistband in half lengthwise. Slip tie ends between ends, raw edges even. Stitch and turn to right side. 8. Pin right side of waistband to right side of apron, ends and centers matching. Pull up gathering threads to fit waistband. Distribute the gathers evenly. Baste and stitch. Turn in raw edge of waistband, slipstitch over seam on the wrong side A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 365 TO MAKE POTHOLDER: 1. Sew 4 patches together to form a square. Press seams open. 2. Cut matching square from broadcloth. Lay on top of each other the squares of broadcloth, the 2 flannelette squares, and the patches right side up. Stitch all together along the seams of the patches. Cover patch seams with embroidery stitches.. From broadcloth cut a bias strip 1%" by 36". Turn the edges over ¥%," and press. Stitch all around the edges of the potholder for a binding.. To make a loop, cut a 6" length of bias. Fold it in half lengthwise. Stitch the edges together. Fold in half crosswise to form a loop. 'Tack ends of loop to corner of potholder, with loop pointed in toward center, stitch securely. Gracious Living Celia Luce \, JE continually read in advertisements, buy this or that for gracious living. What we seem to forget is that gracious living is the kind of living done by gracious people. It is not something to be bought or built or secured by keeping up with anyone. Gracious living comes only when we develop consideration, order, and the knack of spreading happiness. Things do not bring gracious living. People do. Mind Cleaning Nancy M. Armstrong 2) SING housecleaning, we remove everything from closets and drawers, returning only those articles which still have value. The useless, we discard. Just so can we clean the mind, keeping the good, the beautiful, the optimistic, and the useful thoughts, and disearding the bad, the ugly, the pessimistic, and the useless. In our homes, we entertain whom we choose. In our minds, we entertain what we choose. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of Callifornia. 'The house is owned by 'Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. Tommy Benedict. « young boy from an unhappy home, visits Nina at times. She tries to help him into a better life adjustment. At the request of 'Tomas Novarro, Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Joseph shows gradual, but consistent improvement, and Nina feels a deep satisfaction. Dr. Jonathan continues to call and becomes interested in Nina. { OMAS Novarro came home T on one of the hottest September days in California history. Nina, unaware of his artival, had taken small Joseph and 'Tommy to the beach. Joseph had come to love the sea with a small boy's passion for sound and motion. Nina had to watch him every second or he would have been out beyond his depth. She could not understand this heedlessness of danger in one who once trembled at the sound of running water. Joseph had come a long way. He was really talking now, sometimes long furious sentences that were not always clear — but he was talking. Nina leaned back on the beach towel on her elbows and watched his slight form skimmering into the surf. He looked back to her and waved, and Tommy, beside him, Page 366 gave her a reassuring gesture of the hand. Nina waved and then flopped over on her stomach still watching. A great peace filled her, a sense of having had a hand in a momentous creation. Or an isolated, rare experience. What could compare to this that she had witnessed, the opening of a mind, the breaking of a barrier, the thready beginning, the communication of one human being to his immediate world. It had been verv good. Joseph unloosed himself from Tommy's hand and, clutching his bucket, ran up from the ocean. "I found " he shouted, "I found a whale!" Nina peered at the captive sea horse. "Well, not quite a whale, Joseph, but it's a sea horse and they're strictly wonderful." Joseph was charmed. "Sea horse... Sea horse." Nina kissed his bright, soft hair. He flung his arms about her. "It's for you, my present." He fished the sea horse out and laid its clammy coldness in her palm. Tommy trotted up to fling himself down beside them. "It's hot even down here, wish I had brought my board." "You've had a lot of fun with it, haven't you?" "Yeah, all the fellows have. We're going on a beach cookout next Friday, all the fellows." He poured sand SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES through his fingers. "I like Mutual, all but the religious part." "Why don't you like that?" "Oh my brother says it's all a lot of stuff." He dropped the sand and looked into her face. "I get so tired of thinking and wondering about things. How come you're so sure there's a God? Lots. Of people say there isn't one, and they're smarter than you even." Nina swallowed. 'Tommy's bluntness took a little getting used to. "Tm just sure, that's all." "Even my schoolteacher says there isn't one, and he's been to Russia and everywhere and he_ knows things.", Nina sat up. "If you wanted to know if somebody lived in a house, what would you do, Tommy?" He considered, stretching _ his young bones gladly on the sand. "I guess I'd go up and knock. If somebody lived there I guess they'd come to the door." "Prayer is knocking," Nina said. "Prayer!" "Swim!" insisted Joseph, turning to the sea. "No, not now. Let's have cook- »? Ies." She passed them around. OMMY ate in silence for a long time. Nina was beginning to think he had left the topic and gone on to other things, but he turned to her suddenly. "You've knocked, or you wouldn't know about knock- >> "Yes." He looked at her critically. "All right, then why do you have so much trouble, if you know he's there? Other people have lots more 367 of other things than you, a real lot more." "If you have him," Nina said, "you don't need lots of things. You don't need lots. Of pleasures. You can even take a good, long siege of trouble, because knowing he's there gives everything a reason... You see?" He looked at her angrily. "You're different. He wouldn't come. For just anybody." Nina wiped her hands on the towel. "Tommy, don't ask me about these things. Go find out for yourself, if you really want to know, if you're willing to know that he lives." He was instantly suspicious. "What do you mean. Willing?" "There's an obligation in knowing,' she said. Tommy was truculent. "I'm going body surfing... You watch Joseph for awhile." Nina watched him make his way to the sea. She was disturbed. I did it badly, she thought. I was overanxious. I sound harsh and I mean to be tender. Joseph, on a mischievous impulse, poured sand in the cookie box. Nina, catching him at it, gave him a resounding smack on his posterior. "So this is how you treat my son?" She whirled. 'Tomas Novarro stood above her, a furious scowl on his dark face. Nina wanted to sit back and wail loudly. She had pictured all sorts of tender scenes when 'Tomas came home. She glared back at Tomas with blue blazing eyes. "Well if he's going to behave this way, he deserves to be spanked." 368 "So," said Tomas and sank down to the sand and held his arms out to the boy. "She is cruel to you, I hear." Joseph, bellowing like a young bull, flung himself into Nina's arms for comfort. "Very well," said Nina with a firm voice, "but if you do it again, Joseph, you will get another one." "I am very good," Joseph insisted. He sniffed and wiped his eyes with the back of his hands. He smiled a little at 'Tomas. "Come here, boy." 'Tomas pulled a package from his pocket: "I brought you a present." It was a silver whistle. Joseph was charmed. He settled himself on his father's knees and made the air about him painfully shmill. TOMAS looked at Nina. "Doctor Jonathan is right, my son is getting well." "He certainly is." Nina was immensely proud. She drew Joseph to her. Now she wanted to show him off. She wanted him to catch the ball, which he would not; to talk, which he would not. Joseph would only toot the little silver whistle. Novarro threw back his head and laughed. It was a joyous sound. "He is like me, stubborn. Every Novarro is stubborn." He picked the boy up in his arms and held him, nuzzling him while the boy bellowed, suddenly afraid. "He isn't used to." She had almost said strangers. She hastily amended it to "people." "He'll be all right after awhile." "Of course he will!" Novarro swung the boy to his shoulder. "Come along, little pig... There RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 is an ice-cream man down the beach. I passed him." They went away from her. Nina sat back on her heels. She was very tired. She was alone, as she had never been alone before. She was afraid, as she had never been afraid before. After her father had died, there had been Danny, but when Danny had gone, there was no one. Now in the darkness of this moment she grieved toward Danny, willing him to return at this time of her need, but common sense told her that Danny had gone completely and irrevocably away. His letters were brief, impatient notes, at longer and longer intervals. He was caught up in the business of becoming a doctor, in his love for the girl he had found, in the charm of her large and joyous family. Nina sensed that he shrank from the memory of the long and lonely years with her, that he felt his boyhood had been a thwarted, orphan thing. Now that she knew the pain of losing the people she loved, she shrank from entering again into the painful places, the nostalgic memories, the silence where once there had been a quick, demanding voice, the adjustment within herself to the firmly closed door. Panic seized her. She half rose. She would not let them take Joseph away from her. This was different. The child needed her. Hadn't she stayed up night after night with him to help him overcome his fear of the dark? Hadn't she taught him, hour after hour, with little games and songs and poems to talk, to count, to sing, to communicate? She had taught him tenderness with the small white kitten that had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES grown into the great self-sufficient cat. Joseph was hers, peculiarly so. She had brought him into life as surely as his mother had done. Away from her, he might revert to the silence and the fear-walled withdrawal. Nina stumbled to her feet and ran in the direction 'Tomas had taken with his son. She did not notice when the waves came up and washed her running feet. She fled like the wind among gulls and scattering children, crying aloud for Joseph. She came on them suddenly, around a bend, the man and the boy, sitting on the rocks absorbed in the busy scurrying of a sandpiper. "Joseph!" She flung herself beside the child, encircled him, leaned her face against his warm, soft shoulder. The small boy submitted gladly to her fierce embrace. "I love you, Mamma Nina. Don't cry." She was afraid to lift her head. She could not bear to have 'Tomas Novarro see her tears. He would be impatient and scornful. She tried to wipe her face surreptitiously, but Tomas thrust his handkerchief into her hand. "My bank tells me I am a very rich man now," he said, "and it is true that I have been able to buy many things but never tears that are shed in love." He rose abruptly and walked away down the beach. After awhile Joseph became impatient. "Somebody will eat our cookies. Let's go back." Tommy had taken his fins and gone home, but Tomas waited for them beside the beach towel. "It's time to go," Nina said. 369 They worked together in silence, folding the beach towels, packing away the sun tan lotion and the cookies and thermos bottle. Nina took Joseph's hand, and the three of them plodded across the sand and climbed the palisade where the car was parked. She had wondered if 'Tomas would take Joseph now. But he helped Joseph into her battered car. Nina sighed with relief. She clambered quickly under the wheel, feeling her spirits rise. OMAS came around to her side and leaned on the car door. "When I was a child," he said, "my world collapsed. My father and my mother quarreled frightfully and often. I overheard my mother's cries of anguish. She blamed my father because they must sell so much of the land. I began to imagine things... Dreadful things... -Lhere was no one to assure me. 'The day came when I could endure it no longer. I had a boat." His eves smiled down into hers. "It was a very small boat, as I see it now, but then it looked as large to me as an ocean liner. It had a sail, and I decided to cast off and head for." He shrugged. His eyes twinkled. "There are no islands to compare with those in a_ boy's mind,' he said. "On my way to China I stopped at my grandmothers house, where you live now, to tell her goodbye." He laughed in remembrance. "Not to tell her I was running away." He looked rueful. "I didn't need to tell her. She knew. She knew because she loved me, and though she said little in words, interiorly we conversed." 370 Nina looked up in surprise, but he was looking past her to the sea. She studied his face. It was difficult to imagine this great granite man as a boy, troubled and 'lost. "Interiorly we conversed," he went on, a curious gentleness in his voice. "My grandmother's love spoke to me of peace and patience and the need for faith. It was because she was those things that she could plead without words. She made a supper for me, and we ate together and afterwards I went back. I put aside the islands." Nina gripped the wheel. What was it he was trying to tell her? What did he intend this story to do to her? He rubbed his harsh jaw with his fingertips. "When I saw that no amount of money could help Joseph, when I saw the wisdom of the learned fall in defeat, I remembered my grandmother and that evening." Nina was dismayed. It was so easy to dislike people with a quick inward self-righteousness, and then they betrayed you by being suddenIv better than you, or stronger, or wiser. She had had contempt for Tomas Navarro, and all the time he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 had been searching for a way for his son. She said, "I feel very humble that you should have trusted me. I didn't know." He put his hand over hers. "When I read about you in the paper, I thought, what kind of woman is this, who would come to the defense of a child?" "You did?" She felt healed. "I thought everyone who read the article would think me a fool." "No." He moved his hand to the head of Joseph, who had dropped off to sleep. "I was already thinking about talking to you when I met you on my own land... That dav, when you were lost." She took a deep breath. "And now?" He looked from her to the sleeping child. "Doctor Jonathan tells me I must not take him away at once, that the three of us must be friends for a time, until I have won Joseph to me." He stood back. "T cannot thank you with money, Miss Karsh, but I give you my grandmother's house. She will approve of that." (To be concluded) > Wait for Me, Sun Mabel Jones Gabbott The bluest of skies hangs overhead, An inverted bowl with not even a chip: The day awaits: unwritten, unread. This length of hours too soon will slip Into tomorrow. Wait for me, sun, While I put in my pocket a bit of song, And love enough for everyone, With a sparkle of humor to go along Into each hour, for I shall live This day but once. I have much to give. I Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA Girls Py SCHEL Kirkham Wanlass, Monroe, Utah, makes exquisite gifts for MIA girls. Each girl in the community, as she enters Mutual, is presented with a lovely knitted doilie. Some of the young men also receive doilies to keep for their future homes, and the missionaries are remembered with these lovely gifts. Many homes in Monroe are adorned with handwork made by Mrs. Wanlass. She has knitted more than 850 doilies. Also, in many homes, the draperies are decorated with an exquisite crocheted snowflake made by Mrs. Wanlass. Her other hobbies are numerous and varied. She has knitted several bedspreads in skilled sculptured patterns, and she has knitted the lace for hundreds of pairs of pillowcases. Her handwork has won twenty-seven blue ribbons and many other awards in Sevier County fairs. She loves flowers and her home is made cheerful and inviting by many house plants. Mrs. Wanlass has spent all the years of her womanhood in Relief Society work and in making people happy. She has been a visiting teacher for fifty-three years and is still making her visits regularly and faithfully. She is the last to leave the work meetings and is noted as an expert quilter. Six of her eight children are still living, and she is a devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Page 3/1 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 NCE, again the General Board takes opportunity to express its gratitude and appreciation to the dedicated and devoted women who have been instrumental in placing The Relief Society Magazine in so many of our Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world, and also in the homes of other lovely women who appreciate the good and beautiful in life. Especially do we express appreciation to the Magazine representatives in stakes and wards, missions and branches, for their zealous and untiring efforts, and to the Relief Society presidencies and other officers and teachers who have given their loyal support and encouragement. Surely the Lord is pleased with his faithful daughters who have so diligently magnified their calling. Thanks must also be expressed to our thousands of sisters who subscribe to the Magazine, thereby evidencing their appreciation of Relief Society itself, and of the Magazine, the "voice" of Relief Society which brings so much knowledge and pleasure, beauty and spirituality into our lives. In expressing appreciation, we must not forget the many gift subscriptions so thoughtfully and generously provided the General Board for distribution to the missions of the Church by individual sisters and by stake, ward, and branch organizations. Sisters, we thank you Page 372 for these subscriptions. We are sure you will feel well repaid for your generosity and kindness in the knowledge that many hearts have been touched by the messages and inspiration contained in the Magazine, and that a number of conver-: sions to the gospel have resulted. You will be happy to know that the total number of Magazine subscriptions in 1961 was 183,236, compared with 171,002 in 1960, for an increase of 12,234. 'There were 303 stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of nineteen over the 1960 total of 284. The mean of all the stakes was ninety-three per cent, which is an increase of one per cent over 1960. The highest stake was again the South Los Angeles, for the fifteenth consecutive year, with a percentage of 226. It also had the largest number of subscriptions, with a total of 1,641. Of the ten highest stakes, the first four places were taken by stakes in California. Others in the top ten included one stake in Arizona, two in Idaho, one in Canada, one in Nevada, and one in Utah. There were also 2,344 wards and 61 branches in the stakes on the Honor Roll. In forty-one stakes all of the wards achieved one hundred per cent or over. In 1961 there were 24 missions on the Honor Roll, an increase of four over 1960. Three of these are new MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 missions and are to be congratulated for doing so well. Highest honor goes to the British Mission with 143 per cent. Second is the Western States Mission, with 129 per cent; third, the Canadian Mission, with 124 per cent; and fourth, the North Central States Mission, with 111 per cent. In total number of subscriptions the Western States led with 1,075. The mean of the missions on the Honor Roll rose to ninety-five per cent, for an increase of three per cent over 1960. 373 Sisters, we rejoice with you over these outstanding achievements in Magazine subscriptions. They represent many hours of effort by thousands of Magazine representatives throughout the Church, and they are a reflection of loving and devoted SEIVICE.