[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Poem | Title: Spring | Author: Fairbaim]
[Spring Cleaning Vesta N. Fairbaim]
Spring  Cleaning 
Sweep  away  the  cobwebs, 
Sweep  away  the  trash, 
IT    ^    -KT-  1  r-  •  u  •  Burn  the  crumpled  papers, 
Vesta  Nickeison  FaiibaiTn  ^     ^  '^ 
Reduce  debris  to  ash. 
Clear  away  the  clutter, 
The  trivia  inclined 
To  overlay  or  dim 
The  facets  of  the  mind. 
New  House  in  Old  Orchard 
Maude  Rubin 
Small  Everest,  this  peak  where  workmen  hoist 
The  forest-fragrant  shingles,  bundled  neatly.  .  .  . 
I  watch  them  work  to  cover  stud  and  joist. 
Laying  each  row  precisely,  till  completely 
Snug  and  warm  and  weather-safe.    No  rain 
Can  warp  the  new-laid  floors  nor  drown  the  fire 
Of  applewood's  clear  blaze.  Though  winds  complain, 
As  books  warm-line  the  walls,  thought  finds  a  higher 
And  calmer  shelf!     Like  gardens  in  the  hall. 
New  lamps  will  blossom,  primrose-bright  their  glow. 
House-comfort  will  be  here,  enough  for  all; 
House-peace  will  sing  a  lullaby  below 
This  gabled  Everest,  while  high  and  thin 
Our  child's  first  cry  shall  sound,  seal  love  within. 
New  Day 
Let  me  awake  early 
Each  morning, 
Leora  Larsen  Like  a  bird  singing  of 
Joys  that  are. 
Seeking  a  new  freshness 
In  living. 
Knowing  the  sky  keeps  my 
Nighttime  star. 
Page  354

^^^^

Patio  Breakfasts  for  Summertime 
Linnie  Fishei  Robinson 
Menu  I 
Pancakes  With  Pineapple  or  Strawberry  Sauce  —  Sausage  or  Ham 
Milk  or  Chocolate 
PANCAKES 
2  c.  flour  1   c.  butter  or  margerine 
6  tbsp.  sugar  (or  less,  as  desired) 
pinch  of  salt  i   c.  light  cream  or  evaporated  milk 
4  tsp.  baking  powder  5  eggs  (or  fewer,  if  shortening  is  reduced) 
water,  if  needed 
Combine  salt,  sugar,  and  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Add  butter  and  eggs 
and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  cream,  and  a  little  water,  if  the  batter  is  not  thin  enough 
to  spread  out  for  cooking.  Cook  about  3  tbsp.  of  batter  in  large  pan,  skillet,  or  griddle. 
Use  only  a  small  amount  of  butter  to  grease  pan.  Cook  on  medium  heat  until  golden 
brown.  Turn  and  cook  the  other  side.  If  you  are  cooking  for  a  large  crowd,  have 
more  cooks  and  serve  as  you  cook.  As  soon  as  the  pancakes  are  done,  spread  with  fruit 
filling  and  serve  topped  with  whipped  cream. 
PINEAPPLE  FILLING 
Make  your  favorite  cream  filling.  When  cold,  add  crushed  pineapple  (drained  as 
you  do  for  cream  pie)  and  spread  between  pancakes.  Top  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream. 
STRAWBERRY  FILLING 
8  c.  fresh  strawberries  3  tbsp.  butter 
2  or  3  c.  sugar  (to  taste)  3  drops  red  food  coloring, 
1  c.  water  if  desired 
Vz  c.  cornstarch  mixed  with  water 
Wash,  drain,  and  hull  the  berries.  Sort  out  the  finest  and  set  aside  for  topping. 
(I  usually  set  aside  half  of  them.)  Crush  or  mash  the  other  half,  add  water  and  sugar, 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  cornstarch  mixed  in  a  little  water  and  thicken.  Add  butter 
and  red  food  coloring,  if  color  is  not  as  bright  as  the  other  berries.  When  almost  cool, 
add  the  remaining  berries  and  spoon  onto  the  pancakes.  Top  with  cream  and  serve. 
Recipe  serves  15  to  18. 
Menu  II 
Molded  Chicken  in  Gelatine  Hot  Baked  Green  Beans 
Frozen  Orange  Soda 
MOLDED  CHICKEN  IN  GELATINE 
cooked,  cubed  meat  from  one  large  1  bunch  (more  or  less  as  desired) 
chicken  green  onions  minced  fine 
4     c.  stock    (You  cannot  get   this   much  1   c.  celery  cubed  fine 
stock  from  one  chicken  and  have  it  1   c.  small  peas  (sifted,  canned  peas) 
taste  good,  so  if  you  haven't  more  1   small  can  or  jar  pimento,  sliced 
stock    on    hand,    make    some    from  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
chicken  bouillon  cubes.)  salad  dressing,  to  taste 
4  envelopes  gelatine  (unsweetened  and  whipping  cream,  as  desired 
unflavored) 
Page  356

PATIO  BREAKFASTS  357 
Soak  gelatine  in  2  cups  of  stock  and  heat  the  other  2  cups  and  dissolve  the  gelatine 
mixture.  \\  hen  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add  the  cubed  chicken  and  vegetables  and 
pour  into  an  aluminum  angel  food  tin  and  put  in  refrigerator  to  get  firm.  When  ready  to 
unmold  loosen  the  edges  with  knife  and  then  set,  fo.r  just  one  second,  in  deep  hot  water 
( deep  enough  to  come  up  to  where  you  have  loosened  the  mold ) .  Turn  out  on  silver  or 
china  platter  and  garnish  with  lettuce.  Fill  the  center  with  salad  dressing  mixed  with 
whipped  and  sweetened  cream,  mixed  lightly  together.  Serves  as  many  as  you  can  get 
slices  from  an  angel  food  cake. 
BAKED  GREEN  BEANS 
2  cans  French  style  cut  green  beans  2  cans  mushroom  soup 
(uhole  ones  can  be  used  also)  1   c.  cream  or  evaporated  milk 
1   c.  mushrooms 
Drain  beans.  Combine  the  other  ingredients  until  smooth  and  pour  over  beans 
in  a  casserole  and  bake  until  mixture  is  thoroughly  heated  and  bubbles  appear  on  the 
surface. 
FROZEN  ORANGE  SODA 
grated  rind  of  one  orange  4  c.  orange  juice 
6  c.  water  1   c.  lemon  juice 
3  c.  sugar  or  sweeten  to  taste  2  qts.  soda  water  or  substitute 
Combine  grated  rind  of  orange,  water,  and  sugar.  Heat  to  dissolve  sugar,  then 
strain  and  cool  and  add  the  fruit  juice.  Freeze  to  a  mush  and  add  the  soda  water  and 
serve.  Will  fill  about  16  to  18  punch  cups.  (My  mother  used  to  make  this  with  just 
lemonade  seasoned  with  mint.  Then  she  froze  it  in  an  ice  cream  freezer.  When  she 
took  it  out  and  mixed  it  with  soda  water  and  piled  it  in  a  huge  punch  bowl,  we  used 
to  drink  it  out  under  the  cherry  trees,  and  we  thought  it  was  ambrosia.)  Such  a  pretty 
sight,  too. 
SOUFFLE  SANDWICH 
Helena  B.  Ray 
(Use  sharp  American  cheese,  York  State,  or  Cheddar  type) 
Cut  crust  off  sandwich  bread,  spread  with  mustard.  Put  one  slice  cheese  between 
two  pieces  of  bread.  Put  4  sandwiches  in  small  square  pan  8"  x  9"  or  9"  x  9".  Use  3  eggs 
and  2  cups  milk  for  each  four  sandwiches.  Mix  eggs  and  milk  and  pour  over  sand- 
wiches.    Refrigerate  over  night.     Bake  45-60  minutes  in   325°  oven. 
SAUCE:  Saute  box  of  mushrooms  or  can  of  mushrooms  and  add  to  one  can  mush- 
room soup.  Heat  and  pour  sauce  over  baked  sandwiches  and  serve  hot.