[Vol49 | May 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Hazel | Author: Okeson]
[Hazel Sowards Cannon Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Luella F. Okeson]
Hazel  M.  Thomson.  In  our  seminary  we 
are  discussing  temples,  and  this  story  con- 
cerning the  building  of  the  Kirtland  Tem- 
ple fits  in  very  well.  It  added  color  and 
variety  to  our  study  of  temples. 
— LaVerl  K.  Harris 
McGill,  Nevada 
I  enjoy  all  the  Magazine  so  very  much, 
and  another  sister  and  I  meet  each  week 
for  our  own  "home  Relief  Society." 
— Mrs.  Mary  Ann  Kohfield 
Norton,  Kansas 
The  covers  of  the  Magazine  are  simply 
beautiful.  The  January  cover  picture  looks 
so  real  (Yosemite  National  Park,  Cali- 
fornia), I  can  almost  feel  the  snow.  The 
first  prize  poem  "The  Other  Mother,"  by 
Miranda  Snow  Walton,  in  the  same  issue 
is  certainly  thought  provoking. 
— Erma  B.  Braack 
Raymond,  Washington 
I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  for 
the  Magazine.  I  enjoy  taking  a  few  min- 
utes now  and  then  to  read  a  clean  in- 
spirational story.  Many  times  I  have  gone 
to  the  public  magazine  racks  for  a  maga- 
zine containing  short  stories,  and  I  have 
come  away  empty-handed,  and  empty- 
hearted,  so  to  say.  I  am  a  young  mother 
with  four  children,  and  I  do  not  have 
time  to  read  book-length  novels,  but  I  do 
enjoy  reading  short  stories  during  rest 
periods. 
— Mrs.  Maxine  P.  Done 
San  Jose,  California 
The  Relief  Society  Mags^zine  helps  to 
strengthen  my  testimony  of  t'h.e  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  taught  in  his  Church.  The 
Magazine  is  filled  with  inspiring  thoughts 
from  wonderful  leaders.  The  stories  con- 
tain beautiful  examples  of  right  living. 
— Magree  G.  Schaerr 
Kanab,  Utah 
Recently  we  had  shocking  brush  fires 
which  encircled  our  city,  and  a  national 
emergency  was  declared.  After  the  fires 
had  been  raging  for  two  days,  the  Red 
Cross  society  found  that  we  keep  a  list  of 
nursing  sisters,  and  we  were  thrilled  to  be 
able  to  send  some  of  our  wonderful  sisters 
to  the  rescue  at  very  short  notice.  The 
Relief  Society  organization  is  truly  won- 
derful, and  I  sometimes  feel  that  we  could 
say  that  we  are  prepared  for  any  emer- 
gency. We  certainly  appreciate  The  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine  down  here  in  Mel- 
bourne Stake. 
— Mavis  E.  Cutts 
President 
Melbourne  Stake  Relief  Society 
Victoria,  Australia 
I  just  have  to  tell  you  how  much  I  en- 
joyed that  fine,  inspiring  address  by  Elder 
Sterling  W.  Sill,  "Where  Your  Treasure 
Is,"  in  the  March  issue  of  the  Magazine. 
Every  member  of  our  Church  should  read 
this  address.  I  rejoice  in  the  Magazine, 
which  is  published  especially  for  the 
women  of  the  Church.  I  feel  with  all 
my  heart  that  it  should  reach  every  home. 
A  good  book  is  truly  a  lasting  gift. 
— Cora  Daley 
Snowville,  Utah 
I  have  never  read  a  fiction  story  that 
could  touch  one's  heart  like  the  story 
"Good  Morning,  Mrs.  Romaic!"  (by 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson,  March  1962).  I 
don't  believe  a  more  beautiful  story  could 
be  written.  Such  a  true  picture  of  a 
wonderful  life. 
— Mrs.  Colleen  L.  Barnes 
Naf,  Idaho 
A  word  of  appreciation  for  the  lovely 
serial  "Sow  the  Field  With  Roses,"  by 
Margery  S.  Stewart  (concluded  in  June 
1962).  With  its  lofty  theme  and  crisp
