[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: BEAUTIES OF NATURE. | Author: E. B. W]

BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

Down in the meadows, where the cowslips spring,
	And the sweet clover breath is in the air,
There where the thrush and blue bird sweetly sing,
	Dame Nature in her robes so wondrous fair,
Holds her communion with the regal night,
	And blushes in the dawn of early light.

What picture hath the artist ever drawn
	That could compare in loveliness and grace
With nature in her rudest, wildest form,
	No matter in what climate, time, or place,
So skillfully is ev’ry figure wrought,
	So delicate with feeling is it fraught.

In grove, and field, and vale, in forest glade,
	On snowy heights, where man may scarcely tread,
On flow’r, or shrub, and ev’ry grassy blade
	That lifts from earth its tiny, modest head,
In coral reef, or sea beach shining sand,
	We see the seal of an Almighty hand.

I cannot tell how greatly I delight
	In all the beauties of the earth and heaven;
How ardently I reverence the light
	Which our good Father has so wisely given;
The sun and moon, and all the stars that shine
	With the effulgence of a power divine.

These speak to us in language most sublime,
	And most exalting to the human soul;
And all the changes of the hand of time,
	Which in their order and their seasons roll,
Bespeak the presence of a God of love,
	And grandly all the forces seem to move.

Harmonious in its sphere each sweeps along
	In measured time and method, year by year,
And nature’s voices in triumphant song,
	Ring out their echoes sweet, distinct and clear,
That linger ‘mong the "everlasting hills,"
	Or dance to rhythm in the sparkling rills.

Music in which the heavens might rejoice,
	So gifted and so rapturous the lay,
For nature with a universal voice
	Unites to celebrate each new born day;
And thus from morn to eve, and eve to morn,
	All beauty and all grace the earth adorn.

So we admire, adore, and pass along,
	Yet linger most where sweetest flow’rs are strewn,
And while we mingle in the busy throng
	We often fell "twere good to be alone"
To meditate in Nature’s haunts apart,
	In silence and humility of heart.

O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature hath conceal’d;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been reveal’d;
Nor will it be till we have proved how true,
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.
							E. B. W.


