Elvira Lathrop By Fay Ollerton Elvira Lathrop did not go back to the store that afternoon before Thanksgiving. She hurried back and forth in her adobe house with its lean-to, getting the rooms cleaned in preparation for her absence tomorrow. Alone she still had the stooped gait of a woman whose head had first leaned forward in expectancy, then drooped with resentment, and later grown careless. She was a spinster in a town of almost unanimously married women, and she had grown to show a surface acceptance in her kindly timid eyes of being the butt of Red Water's jokes on feminism. The Co-op's superintendent, Hans Nielson, knew that the next day was the yearly gathering of the Lathrop clan, and that Elvira would value the extra time. He could, she realized, be generous when it did not inconvenience him, and there would be few customers that afternoon; they would be home cleaning turkeys and chickens, baking pumpkin pies, and dusting rooms only opened for great occasions. "I feel like maybe you would want this afternoon to make a potato cake," he teased, showing his yellow teeth. She nodded back, pleased in spite of her dislike for the sleek little superintendent. She did not like his patronizing smile; every time he spoke she felt more poignantly than ever her thin spinsterhood, now growing into its forties; and her fight to retain her self-expression in the little sage-brush town with its red streets and its open contempt for any unwanted woman. Yet, she was flattered about the potato cake. His mention showed that the town recognized her supremacy in one line usually dedicated to wearers of the ring. Every person must have some reason for existing, outside of the mere routine of eating and sleeping, something no matter how small that he feels he can do better than his fellows, that he can use as a barricade against the forces that would level him with the rest of his creatures. Potato cake was Elvira's weapon in Red Water's battle. No wedding supper, no pioneer day celebration, canyon outing, or woodhauler's banquet was complete without this cake. Not another woman in town could compete in the rich, moist brownness and delectable flavor of her masterpiece. Husbands invariably called for more. Often they turned to their wives with: 'Why can't you make cake like this? I wish you'd get Elviry's receipt." And their failure to get the recipe was in no way due to their lack of zeal. They had tried, after Elvira had first produced her ELVIRA LATHROP 193 triumph, but ineffectually. All she told them was that a friend of hers in Salt Lake had obtained the recipe from an English aunt. The shy woman had found the sweet pleasure of excelling and she guarded her secret well. If Red Water's housekeepers had been more in touch with the world that lay beyond their sagebrush trails and low, red hills; if they had subscribed for women's magazines now becoming practical, or even bought cook books, they might have found a potato cake recipe similar to Elvira's, but they went on handing down cooking rules from mother to daughter, and exchanging methods over back fences and at Relief Society quilting bees. Some of the wives, spurred on by their husbands, had taken recourse to experimentation; their delvings into the realms of science were sorry failures. Because their "menfolks" liked the cake, they called for it on every occasion, and Elvira would come home, her tight little heart that was carefully schooled against emotion, warmed and expanded. At such times she would chat brightly with her taciturn brother, Ward, who was a bachelor. "You ought to have been there, Ward," she would say to the tall, spare man sitting in front of the box stove with his stockinged feet resting on the red checkered tablecloth; "they had some right nice speeches and music, and the supper was real good." Ward would lift his somber eyes from the. Semi-weekly he was all week reading to say in his halting voice: "I'm glad, Elviry, that you enjoyed it," and relapse into silence again; but he knew that someone had been exuberant in his praise of the cake. It meant a great deal to his sister, this family reunion. Some twenty years ago Elvira's skin had been smooth and clear and faintly touched with pink; her light brown hair had curled over her high forehead instead of being drawn back in its tight grayness, and she had been in love with Eric Kelner, now married to her cousin, Delia Lathrop. There had been no formal announcement; that was not Red Water's custom even now in the beginning of the second decade, but the town had known there was something serious between the two. Had he not taken Elvira to Sunday night Mutuals for two years past, ever since she had returned from the Academy at Provo, to care for her declining mother? And had he not been seen walking home from Lathrop's on wintry days with books that Elvira had loaned him? Summer evenings, too, when the fragrance of freshly cut alfalfa and garden flowers vied with the sage and rabbit brush for supremacy in the breezes, they had gone buggy riding in the weedy and brush-lined streets towards the meadows on the south, or to the East canyon. And Elvira, who had been working in the Co-op store for a year, was known to be putting away material for sheets and _tablecloths. This last alone would have been proot sufficient for any  fown; and in Red Water no one left his back door ajar but the neighbors knew the reason. Girl, and at the height of her timid rage, Elvira had left the dance hall afone, and her lover in willing hands. Later she blamed Delia entirely. How could gentle, awkward Eric, who had lived more fact! And in her stupid pride, Elvira had continued to leave Not knowing how to forget, or to substitute, which is much the same thing, Elvira had grown thin, gaunt-eyed, and more retiring. She was already looking old when next spring Eric returned of giving a linen tablecloth to a mere cousin. As time passed, it pained her to see that Eric no longer had time to read, or to ELVIRA LATHROP 195 think of the school plans they had talked about. He was a busy man now, working his small farm, doing odd jobs of hauling freight and loaning out himself and team to keep Delia supplied with the silk dresses she demanded; her pantry piled with materials for her bounteous table, and later providing for the regularly increasing Kelnars. It did not heal Elvira's wound any to see the ample Delia each year becoming more sharp tongued. She felt too keenly for Eric, unnecessarily stooped and worried looking, and she was growing thinner and worn herself. Yet there were times when she could do something for her old lover and she eagerly anticipated these occasions. There was the annual birthday party for Aunt Sarah, now grown feeble, the Lathrop weddings, the holidays with their interchange of family dinners, and the Thanksgiving reunions, where Eric always sought her for a few minutes of desultory talk, and ate prodigiously of her potato cake. "No one," he often said, "can make such good cakes as you. Elvira. I just wait for these dinners to come," and turning from the glowing spinster to his wife, "Delia is a good cook, but her cakes can't come up to these." Elvira cherished these compliments, even though she knew they were his futile attempts to cover old sorrow, and enjoyed Delia's retort that, "she'd get that receipt or bust." The secret was too much a part of the spinster's self ever to be disclosed now. The coming family reunion was the one oasis in an otherwise arid and disappointing year. Ward, a few years her senior, had been more crippled with rheumatism than was his wont, and had had a hard time harvesting his small crops and hauling in the winter wood from the cedar and pine-covered hills. Wool had shot down in price, until their tiny income from it would not pay for the magazines Elvira subscribed for. The brother was growing more dependent upon her: he had few pleasures, and it had been years since he had mingled in the town activities other than to attend Sacrament and Priesthood meetings. To make matters worse, Elvira was having trouble with her left leg. "You're on it too much. You ought just to sit down and do nothing else for months," old Dr. Dunn had told her. "If you aren't careful, you'll have some serious trouble soon." She knew, too, that Hans had seen her slight limp, and was only waiting for some slacking in her work to take on a younger, prettier girl. "You're not so spry as you used to be, Elviry," he had said only a few days ago. She knew he had in mind his wife's sister, a strong young thing, and pretty in a blousy, coarse way, and who wanted a chance to clerk; but he would not dare to discharge the older woman without some serious reason. The Lathrops were  too strong in the community; though they were letting their stock in the co-operative store slip to enter other ventures. L'rightened, Elvira had worked when she should have been home asleep. She wondered now as she scurried around in her lowraftered, whitewashed kitchen and gathered her cake materials about her, if Hans had given her the free half-day so: that he could report her inability to work full time. Orderly as always, Elvira placed the ingredients in exact amounts on her brown oilcloth tablecover, and started creaming the butter and sugar. She had no more than begun her strokes when a rap sounded on the kitchen door. Because her hands were dusted with flour, she called, "Come in." Panting and robust, Delia Kelner stood in the doorway, an old brown coat thrown hurriedly over her pink gingham dress. "Hello, Elviry," she called, loudly excited. "I saw your smoke and knew you was home, because Ward is in the cattle pasture. | been waiting to tell you the news!" "What news?' Elvira paused in her creaming. She knew Delia's ways. She was more worried how she could get rid of her cousin, or take her into the front room. The potato cake was too much in evidence. "What news is right, Elviry," the cousin declared, not a whit dampened by the response. She seemed all the more pleased for a chance to extend her climax. She opened her eyes in an attempt to be mysterious, and sat down uninvited in 'Ward's coneress chair. Elvira waited, her hands fluttering helplessly about her work. As if she would burst if she contained her story longer, Delia leaned forward and said in a stage whisper, "Esther's home again, and she ain't alone! She's got a fourth husband, and they say," here the informant lowered her voice, screwed her eyes, into a semi-closing, "they say she's going to bring him to the reunion tomorrow!" She was not disappointed in her climax. Elvira dropped her cake spoon, her eyes and mouth opened wide, and had to catch her gold-rimmed spectacles with trembling hands. "Great Scotland!" was all she could say at first. The spinster was not given to expletives. Esther was a second cousin by marriage, the result of a Lathrop's mesalliance; she was the one unfettered spirit in a long line of staid, emotion bound, and duty thinking citizens that made up the family of Lathrop. Her first husband had died, and six months after his funeral, she had married a young Lathrop who was in the early stages of rebellion against the conventions of his family. But, true to his heritage, he found life with the irrepressible Esther unbearable, and quietly divorced her after two years of misery. Not daunted in any way, Esther had married ELVIRA LATHROP 197 again; this time she did the divorcing herself, and in a day and town where a woman divorced once had as well wear a scarlet letter. Unable at last, to stand the town's and the Lathrop's steady rebuffs, she had gone to a coast city. The mention of her name was always a flagrant signal in Red Water, and her return with a fourth would not diminish the gossip. "When did she come?" the now thoroughly alert Elvira demanded of the righteous Delia.; Delia removed her coat, preparatory to a lengthy stay. 'Why, she come on the stage last night," she began in her high, discordant voice, her deep flesh glowing; while Elvira, all caution forgotten, went on with her creaming, a high spot of color in her sunken cheeks. It had been a long time since she had had a chance to forget herself in a choice bit of gossip. "Eric was up at the post office this morning, and they come right in for their mail. She was just as brazen as anything, introducing him right and left to her 'old friends.' Cousin Tom's wife was there too, and Eric had only started telling me, when she run in with more news. She said that Esther was bragging she'd walk into the Lathrop reunion and give 'em the surprise of their lives." Delia folded her lips into a pudgily tight line. She was the essence of satisfied virtue. By the time she was through with all that she had heard and surmised, the cakes were in the oven and the fire adjusted to their needs. She arose still bristling with importance. I got to be getting on. Old lady Henry's bedridden this week, and ~ I know she'd like to hear about Esther, and then I've got to get home and get supper for Eric and the rest of the family. He's been hauling hay to the cattle pens all day and he'll be hungrier than the threshers." She took up her coat, this time taking care to run her arms through the sleeves. The short November day was fading into a gray evening and the air was chilly. "Tl be seeing you at the Relief Hall when the womenfolks bring over their vittles," she called good-naturedly from the back stoop, and energetically waddled around the graveled path to the unpaved sidewalk, Elvira watched her from the front window, puzzled to see the cousin turning towards home instead of Mrs. Henry's.