Pioneers: WHEN WEST WAS WEST—OWEN WISTER By Lais V. Hales "When West Was West" is a recently published book of nine short stories written by the well known American writer Owen Wister. Mr. Wister knew the west in all its glory. Born of Quaker parentage in Philadelphia in 1860, he, like his beloved friend Theodore Roosevelt, came west in 1885 for his health. He stayed for several months on a Wyoming ranch. This was the only one of many visits to the west where he fished and hunted to his heart's content. He came to know intimately the landscape, the soldiers, the cowboys, and the Indians. He learned to love this country dearly, and felt that it was too little appreciated; so he began to write sketches and short stories about it. Today he is one of the best known, best loved, and most read of the present-day American writers of the west. "When West Was West" is a monument to the old West, a west which he knew when it was really west. In theme the stories are very different, but Mr. Wister writes equally well of the varied phases of pioneer life. To show the scope and variety of the book, as well as its bearing on pioneer life, we should like to speak especially about four of these stories. "Bad Medicine," the opening story in the book, gives us a colorful picture of the Indian, who played so important a part in our pioneer life. The story deals with a visit to Yellowstone Park in the early days of its history. Against this background Mr. Wister portrays the Indian with his fears, his superstitions, and his reticence. We feel the elemental quality of the red man. "Did this descendant of wars and wildernesses know the centuries dividing us that his quietness mysteriously conveyed. With his drooping-headed, saturnine animal, he seemed to share some intimate lore of nature that I and all white men were shut out from." As he casts himself into the crater we feel still more strongly how close to nature he is and how little we understand him. "The Right Honorable the Strawberries" is the story of the son of an old English title, young, handsome, likeable, who came to the West and captured the heart of the upright cow-puncher Chalkeye. In the relationship between the Englishman and the American we see the difference between the Old World and the New. The fathomless reticence of the English coupled with the startling Western freedom of speech—freedom as to their incomes, their families, their gaieties—is deep beyond all American understanding. How could Chalkeye, with his freedom where the Englishmen is silent, understand Strawberries. How could he know "that the true aristocrat always is the best democrat, because he is at his ease with everybody, and makes them so with him." Yet, between the two, grew up a friendship which PIONEERS 205 prompted Chalkeye to give his life for Strawberries, and brought Strawberries back to Drybone long after all others had left it. In Chalkeye we have one of Mr. Wister's best characterizations. One day Rudyard Kipling and Owen Wister were returning by train from Washington after dining with their mutual friend Theodore Roosevelt. They were talking "shop," and Wister told the story of a disaster that occurred at a certain military post as a result of the annoyance caused to a certain lively-minded captain by the length of a certain chaplain's hair. An Apache, carefully rehearsed by the captain, played his part in the story. Kipling found the story so good that he said it must be written and entitled "Absalom." Years later Mr. Wister wrote the story and it is included in this book under the title "Absalom and Moulting Pelican." Colonel Steptoe McDee, a Southern gentleman, is a commanding figure, strong, alert, and intelligent. Brokenhearted over the outcome of the Civil War, he comes to the West and meets Randy, a typical Western boy. The warm friendship between these two of such varying ages and traditions is one of the finest things Wister has portrayed. Tragedy has always followed in the wake of the railroad. "At the Sign of The Last Chance," the closing story in the book, tells of the tragedy wrought by the railroad to an old inn where the coaches changed horses or stopped for meals in the good old days. Just a few old men playing a listless game was all Wister found on his last visit. He thus describes it: "I had begun to see those beards long before they were gray; when no wire fence mutilated the freedom of the range; when fourteen mess-wagons would be at the spring round up; when cattle wandered and pastured, dotting the endless wilderness; when roping them brought the college graduate and the boy who had never learned to read, into a lusty equality of youth and skill; when songs rose by the camp-fire; and the dim form of the night herder leaned on his saddle horn as under the stars he circled slowly around the recumbent thousands; when two hundred miles stretched between all this and the whistle of the nearest locomotive. "And all this was over. It had begun to end a long while ago. It had ebbed away slowly from these now playing their nightly game as they had once played it at flood-tide. The turn of the tide had come even when the beards were still brown." To Wister, "the requiem of the brown and golden beards, their romance, their departed West, too good to live forever, was finished." All nine of the stories comprising this book are unusual. The vivid characters, the spontaneous wit, and the excellent description that comes of personal observation make this book good and wholesome. One feels the broadness and generous tolerance of the author and realizes "that when one lives out of doors and takes account of the sky and the clouds, and the quiet earth, one lives hard, it may he, but one lives true." Books Married Sweethearts Somehow | feel that when the average reader picks up "Married Sweethearts," by Alfred Osmond, and especially if he knows the author to be a poet, he will suspect that he is to read something mildly sentimental in praise of wedded home life; and he may be inclined to lay the book aside with the thought "A good book surely, which I shail read some day when I get more time." But let this reader open the lids of the book and he will not read it at some other time but right away—at once, scarcely laying the book down after he has begun it. Lor the entire story is gripping, and holds the reader with fascinating interest from first to last. The story is a succession of real thrills; and while it does contain many fine sentiments well expressed, it never slops over in this respect but brings in the sentiment with skill and ease just where it belongs. The book deals with bandits, robbers, murderers, outlaws, sweethearts, married and unmarried, captured and uncaptured. For the outlaws capture some of them; and the record of their adventures forms a series of pictures comparable with the best Indian stories of former days. There is a good deal of shooting, of combats, of adventures in the mountains amid snow and storms, among wolves and savage men who know chiefly one thing well—how to shoot with deadly effect and to do so upon slight provocation. Thus the book is one that makes a strong appeal to both youth and strong natures, who love action and tense scenes and situations. With all this the book is yet true to its title. While it contains the required materials of dramatic plot and the hairbreadth escapes which hold any reader's interest, it also sets forth the higher beauty of the spirit and the dominant part which the spirit takes in governing the actions of normal and abnormal men and women. It is a love story throughout with several sets of lovers, and so has the charm of romance for all those not too old to remember the glorious days of youth and for the youth who is just about to experience these delights. At the same time there is running through the tense and exciting narrative, like a golden vein in a layer of quartz, a religious philosophy of life and of the power of love to redeem men and women from even their lowest and most deeply fallen estates. That the author can make his book preach a sermon while relating the incidents of thrilling adventure is a high tribute to his genius and ability as both philosopher and story teller. The book is filled also with description of the beauty of western mountains, yet there seems to be little description in it since the scenes are a vital part of the drama itself, not being brought in for the BOOKS 207 purposes of descriptive writing. The characters, too, follow the Homeric rule of acting and speaking for themselves, so that there is not much need to label them as this or that type of human being. Each one is a true and distinctive species of the human race, and each describes himself mainly by what he says and does. The story is laid. Somewhere in Utah, at a not very distant day, in a village near the mountains; it has many characters of plain, average people. The home life of several couples is set forth with a trifle of exaggeration, as if in order to make sure that readers shall see the point. Of the heroines there are quite a number—Nell Foster, Lily Williams, Samantha Wolf and Vera King, all being conspicuous, and each taking a rather heavy part. The men are Sunny Brown, Badger Wolf, Hen Fox, Dave Holmes, Butch Cassidy, the notorious western outlaw, and several of his men. Neil Foster is knidnaped and carried to robbers' roost in the mountains, not for a ransom, but for a test of her supposed love for an old sweetheart Stanley Black, whom she had dismissed a year or so before. She is remarkable but rather less so than the obscure girl, Lily Williams, married to slovenly but good hearted Vern Wiliams, who is untidy and uncultured. Lily goes in search of her kidnaped friend, Nell. She is guided by the mail carrier for the robber, who turns out to be of first magnitude as a man of iron and of honor, and accompanied by Sunny Brown, a young man of the village not in love with anyone, who at length becomes a real hero and falls in love with an ideal woman, the picture of his own fancy. He finally meets her in these mountains with the usual result. Nell discovers that her discarded lover had no hand in her abduction but that on the contrary he has become a man of high ideals and lofty character, writing a book on the philosophy of life. The story ends right, and is a good one. Pioneers Peder Victorious—O. E. Rolvaag "O you youths, Western youths, So impatient; full of action, full of manly pride and friendship, Plain I see you, Western youths, see you tramping with the foremost— Pioneers! O Pioneers! Have the elder races halted? Do they droop and end their lesson, wearied over there beyond the seas? We take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson, Pioneers! O Pioneers!  We debouch upon a newer, mightier world, varied world, Fresh and strong the world we seize, world of labor and the march, Pioneers! O Pioneers! This is the theme of O. E. Rolvaag's new novel "Peder Victorious,' which is a sequel to his first great pioneer novel, "Giants in the Earth." It is a tale of the second generation of Norwegian pioneers on the Dakota Plains. In Mr. Rolvaag's first novel the conflict was that of man and the prairies. In this novel it is that of parents and children. Especially is it the story of the struggle between a strong, dominating, backward-looking mother and her gifted, forward-looking son. They are antagonists as to language, religion, and attitude toward life. But Peder is victorious for "fresh and strong" the world and its problems he seizes, and carries on the march of the pioneers. In a small sod hut on the Dakota prairie one Christmas Eve, a son was born to Beret and Per Hansa. In pure thankfulness and because the child was born with "the helmet," ' Per named him Peder Victorious, much to the disgust of Beret. Who felt that here on the pitiless prairies no one could be victorious, for the evil must sooner or later get us all. While Peder was very small, Per Hansa wandered off into the prairie, never to return alive. After the cruel and, to all outward appearances, senseless death of his beloved father, Peder grappled with the problem of God as an all-loving and allpowerful entity. It seemed queer to him that "He who could do all that He wanted, and wanted only that which was good, couldn't get people to do what He wanted." His mother Beret had built up within him a supernatural reality, and the only suggestion he got from her was that God acts as he does in order to try people. As Peder pondered it all, he wondered why grown people were always ready to cry. He decided that "the greatest thing on earth must be to make people happy—so full of joy that they had to laugh—that's what he wanted to do." Here he and Beret came into serious conflict, for to her all happiness was sinful. She had forgotten that it is God who causes all life to flower, and who puts both good and evil into the hearts of men. She could not understand that God is good and that he sanctions love, joy, and happiness. Beret wanted Peder to enter the ministry, but she drove him away from it with these strange ideas. Peder became a farmer instead of a minister. Beret was very sad as she watched the Americanization of Peder. As he assimilated the English language in the place of the language of his father, she lost hope. Here in America BOOKS 209 the Norwegians were gradually casting away all that they had brought with them from Norway. After all had been taken and there was nothing but the body left, what then? Was it possible for Norwegian hearts to beat in a medium so alien? Must it not eventually mean death to them as a race here in America. "But could a common sparrow take the meadow lark's song?" Was the minister right when he said that in twenty years not one word of Norwegian would be heard in America? With these thoughts, Beret fights her progressive son as he grapples with the problems of becoming an American. Thanks to his father's pioneer spirit moving within him, Peder keeps looking forward, and takes over to the full his "New World inheritance." These are the things we find of most importance in this fine new book. Here, as in "Giants in The Earth," we discover what critics have called faith in the nobility of the human spirit. Peder fights the problems of his generation with just the same fine spirit that his father fought the prairie. Mr. Rolvaag gives us a truthful picture of the differences of the old and the young in any generation. He treats the attitude of each generation with the same sympathy and respect. Of the religious attitude of the Norwegians here in America he says, "A people's soul had begun to stir. That which the mind—in some hidden cove of a Norwegian fjord, or on some lonely island far out where the mighty sea booms eternally— through centuries had conceived of religious mysticism, and there shaped so as to fit the conditions of life, now sought a natural expression on the open reaches of the prairie." Naturally, we do not find so many fine and varied pictures of the prairie as we did in "Giants in The Earth." But we feel keenly the effect of it on the characters of the book. "From eternity the prairie had lain here, lapping sun and drinking moisture, and had peered up into an endless blue sky, brimful to running over. At evening it had listened to strange tales told by the twilight breeze * * * "Human habitations lay far apart upon the open stretches—miles apart in places. One could not borrow warmth from the other here. Through the cold grayness they seemed to huddle up, to crouch low over something, as if jealously guarded." Notes from the Field South Sevier Stake On September 9, 1928, at 2 p. M. A South Sevier Stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the Elsinore ward chapel with more than 80 stake and ward officers in attendance. A talk "Teachers and Better Methods of Teaching" was given by Brother Harold Anderson. A discussion of the lesson was held, and then department work was carried out. It is believed that much good will result from this convention. Pocatello Stake (Meadow Ward) Meadow ward is small, but seemingly alive to opportunities MrApow Warp RELIEF SOCIETY in Relief Society work. The ward is a winner in stake contests, and boasts of 100% annual dues paid last year. Grant Stake The closing session of the Grant stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the form of a banquet on November 15, 1928. President Winnifred B. Daynes presided. Speakers of the evening were Elder David O. McKay, President Louise Y. Robison, and President Joseph J. Daynes. The hall was beautifully NOTES FROM: THE FIELD 211 decorated with the Fall flowers, and the Relief Society color scheme of white and gold was used on. The tables. About 450 guests were present, including Elder and Mrs. David O. McKay, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Bishoprics, and other ward officers. President Louise Y. Robison, past President Clarissa S. Williams, and other members of the General Board were present. This progressive stake has also made an enviable record in its Magazine subscriptions. The stake itself gave as a prize to the ward having the greatest number of subscribers per capita, ten subscriptions to the Magazine. This went to the Southgate ward, of which Mrs. May Fromeyer is the agent. This ward shows an enrollment of 42 members in the Relief Society, with a subscription of 48 to the Magazine. It is fine missionary work when non-members of the Relief Society become subscribers to the Magazine. The next ward to win distinction in this activity was the Whittier, with Mrs. Emily A. Jones as agent. The enviable record made here is that of an increase from 18 to 80 subscribers within two years. Alpine Stake Special attention is called to the very beautiful and appropriate memorial to Annie C. Hindley. This is a most unusual and constructive manner in which to do honor to a noble woman whose life was devoted to service for her sisters. On October 25, 1928, the official dedication exercises in honor of the project were held in the Alpine stake tabernacle, with President Maud D. Christensen of the Alpine stake Relief Society presiding. The Annie C. Hindley memorial shelf, which occupies two ceiling cabinets on each side of the entrance door of the public library in American Fork was thrown open to the public. This valuable collection numbers more than 308 books, which. Will be most serviceable to the women in the work that was so dear to Mrs. Hindley's heart. The public is cordially invited to visit this library. No finer testimonial could be given, and we congratulate the sisters of this stake on this fine accomplishment. We are sure that the volumes in the library wil: be invaluable for reference and for entertainment. The Generai Board took great pleasure in adding to this collection. The invitation is still open to those who may wish to donate books in memory of Mrs. Hindley. We feel that a work has just begun here that will be most notable in its development and of lasting benefit to lovers of truth and admirers of Mrs. Hindley. Franklin and Oneida Stakes Relief Society officers of the Franklin and Oneida stakes cooperated in conducting a pleasant and profitable class leaders' convention on September 22, 1928. Representatives of the presidencies of these stakes, one advisory High Councilman, some prominent educators, and 102 officers of the Relief Society were in attendance. The work of the chorister was ably outlined, and  what careful work can do was demonstrated. Professor John E. Marsden discussed the subject "Better Methods of Teaching and Better Teachers." It is felt that the class leaders were greatly benefited by this talk. An exemplary lesson was developed in each of the three departments, theology, literature, and social service. The music was furnished by the ward Relief Society members. Two beautiful quilts, work done by the Oneida stake board of Relief Society, were exhibited. Franklin and Oneida were one stake formerly, so the luncheon and social hour which followed the meeting was greatly enjoyed in making new acquaintances and renewing old friendships. St. George Stake A most inspirational and instructive class leaders' convention was held in connection with a flower show and pageant in the St. George stake Relief Society. Members came from all parts of the stake. Fifteen associations took part in the day's activities. In spite of the severe droughts and extreme heat of the past season, the flower show exceeded all expectations. The artificial flowers showed skill and art in execution. In the morning session departmental work was conducted. In the afternoon excellent talks were given by J. Wm. Harrison and Sister Verna Cox on "The Relief Society as a Teacher," and "Religion in the Home." Musical numbers were furnished by Enterprise, Toquerville, and St. George wards. At noon, in the St. George cafe, a delicious luncheon was served to 80 officers. To celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society in St. George, a pageant was presented in the College Auditorium. The parts pertaining to the stake were composed by Sisters Zora Jarvis, Roxie Romney, and Alfa McGregor. The pageant presented the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society impersonated by local members. This was followed by the five "Dixie" presidents. The closing part represented the present stake president, Sister Josephine J. Miles, with her ward presidents: The ladies all dressed in white; the ward presidents kneeling, each holding a gold streamer connected with a staff held by the stake 'president as she stood, connecting the past stake and the General Presidents, who made up the background. Excellent choruses furnished appropriate singing for the pageant. Morgan Stake. Morgan stake feels that a very successful Relief Society year has been completed; that the ward presidents and aids have been capable, enthusiastic leaders. On October 30, 1928, an inspirational convention of the Stake Relief Slociety was held, when effective talks along the lines covering inost of the Relief Society activities were given. More than 200 workers were in attendance at this gathering, and much educa- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 213 tional and spiritual work reflecting the scope of the whole organization was put°over. The musical program for the occasion was one of the outstanding features. Moapa Stake. The aged sisters, shown below, are members of the Overton Relief Society, and have spent many years of active service in the work, holding places of responsibility. The youngest of the group is 71 years of age, the oldest 88. They are still active and faithful—all honor to such groups whose life is a.- testimony of high idealism. Last June the stake took up as a project, "The Open' Door," and learned the songs in the music practice period during the remainder of the year at the regular Relief Society meetings. A few group practices finished the preparation. Each Relief Society took responsibility for two pageant scenes; the stake board and one other near-by group joined, making in all five groups who worked harmoniously together for the successful presentation of the pageant. The president feels that much good has come from the effort, and it was also a financial success. 'There were many obstacles to be overcome but a very successful presentation of the pageant showed what unity of effort and determination to accomplish certain objectives may do. Maricopa Stake. ' Some very interesting experiences come into the work of the Relief Society in the Maricopa stake. Not the least of this is the work among our Lamanite sisters. In February the Papago ward was reorganized; a native sister, Martha Manuel, was selected to be the president. A very fine spirit of mutual helpfulness pervades the work of the organization in this stake; the stronger wards seeking to help those who have greater difficulties in Relief Society endeavor, Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in June) LOYALTY: ITS MEANING AND NECESSITY Loyalty is faithfulness. In its highest form, it has behind it confidence, respect, and love. Inner loyalty is a mental attitude of enduring faithfulness that holds out against approach of all impulses leading to desertion of accepted principles, espoused causes, adopted ideals, or worthy persons. Outer loyalty is conduct in keeping with inner loyalty. It is faithfulness expressed in word and action. It is good will in operation toward an objective. There is more character in full loyalty to a fable than there is in part loyalty to a fact. Disloyalty cannot be transmuted into any form of goodness. Out of loyalty to an error may develop power for loyalty to truth. In his conscientious persecution Paul was loyal to the light he had; and this loyalty made him the fighter of the good fight, the winner of the life race, the keeper of the faith. His loyalty was true in both cases; true to an accepted error, true to a discerned truth; true to a foe, true to a friend. Loyalty is love's most precious gift; it is friendship's final proof; it is humanity's strongest lifting lever. Endurance faithful to the end, Links up the man to God as friend, Earth loyalty of day-by-day Illuminates the heavenly way. Loyalty and Law: Jesus declares his loyalty to law and to the prophets who had proclaimed it. He points out the relative value of word loyalty and action loyalty. See Matt. 5:17, 18, 19. That he Had regard for the civil law is plainly set forth in Matt. 22:17-21. Christ's loyalty to law was shown to the wife of Pilate in a dream. In the face of a multitude of accusers the Roman Governor pronounced the "Man of Galilee" not guilty, reminding the mob that he and Herod, the King of Judea, agreed as to verdict of innocence, and thus making it unmistakably clear that Jesus had been loyal to the laws of the Kingdom of Judea and to those-of the Roman empire. (Luke 23:13, 16.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215 In the 12th Article of [Faith the Latter-day Saints proclaim to all the world that true to the faith includes loyalty to law, a loyalty that consists of "obeying, honoring, and sustaining," by living the law, defending the law and backing up the enforcement of the law. The constitutional law of any country has first claim upon the civic loyalty of everybody in that country be they citizens or visitors. (See 12th Article of Faith.) Loyalty to One's Word of Honor or One's Covenants: A word of honor to stand. By righteousness is an aid to the elevation of standards, but a word of honor given in support of evident unrighteousness is, conspiracy against human happiness; there is no honor in a pledge of that kind. Such a promise is conceived in dishonor, born of dishonor, and kept with dishonor. It is one of the most tragic forms of disloyalty. One's word of honor is a part of one's sacred self; it cannot knowingly be given to degrading causes without taking the giver downward. An oath of office is one of the highest words of honor; it cannot honestly be taken without an inner loyalty to the law. Loyalty to one's word of honor lifts one's self respect and wins the respect of others. Loyalty to Causes: The espousal of some great cause is esential to an abundant life, and loyalty to a great cause develops greatness of character. The greatness of an individual or of a group is measurable by the greatness of the causes espoused or the projects projected by them and by their loyalty to these causes in the carrying out of the project. The lasting lifting power of loyalty to a good cause is immeasurable. From such loyalty came freedom, and through such loyalty the era of good will shall come, when the "Goddess of right and the Champion might shall meet at the altar of love." The causes constantly calling for loyalty are freedom, education, temperance, peace, health, justice, tolerance, purity—all included in the great cause of Christianity. Loyalty to Ideals: Ideals are character rainbows. As we approach them they move on, but their lure is lofty; if we turn our backs upon them they are no more to us. For the soul that is loyal to an ideal there is no deluge. My rainbow stood on the top of a hill And beckoned me to the golden till; I climbed, and it sped to the mountain-side, All I had gained was a vision wide; I was left in the shadow.  My rainbow lured me higher still, I climbed and felt the climber's thrill; My rainbow fled to the mountain top, I climbed, I would not, could not, stop— Thank God, I said, for my rainbow. Family Loyalty: "Blood is thicker than water'—yes, and it should be. "I came to my own," said the Savior. The close-knit families are the enduring ones. The family tree is under the special protection of every member. Family loyalty forbids hacking it with the hacker's envy or cutting it with tongues of slander. Cousins cannot speak evil of each other without a rebound of their depreciation of each other's values. Sisters-in-law do themselves and their children a good turn when they take good care of the reputation of each other. Family loyalty increases the sun-kissed output of the family tree. Better brag a little on one's brother than to belittle him; for the more belittling, the bigger the burden of a relative. Family loyalty will foster family friendship and develop family love. Notice the family member who is full of family loyalty, and usually he or she is the center of family confidence, admiration, and good will. The lack of loyalty in a family points to domestic decline and is a signal of the approach of unfitness to survive. Family loyalty is not limited to praise of good qualities; it goes over into the field of helpfulness. Members of a family should be as glad to lift on the unfortunate as they are to share with the fortunate members. Charity should not only begin at home, but should be loyally followed up within the family circle; and the helpers should know that it is harder to be helped than it is to help. Family loyalty fights the wolf of want; holds back the hand of hate. It finds means and ways for home happiness and kindred friendship. Its limitations are bounded only by higher loyalty, of which loyalty to righteousness is the highest. Religious Loyalty: This form of loyalty includes loyalty to the beliefs and the ideals for which the Church stands and to the Church leaders. It is a loyalty that suggests the slogan, "Everything to boost and nothing to belittle." No religion is so complete nor any ideal so perfect nor any officer so infallible that improvement may not be thought of and spoken about in a build-up spirit; but all of these are too sacred to be made the object of faultfinding with destructive disloyalty behind it. In this age of unlimited religious freedom, consistency suggests that people should not belong to a Church to which they cannot be loyal GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217 in their works. Church loyalty leads to doing one's "bit" for the Church; not only the little bit, the "get-by" bit, but the "full-share" bit—the share indicated by the law of the Lord. For a religion without belief i# and obligation to God is nothing more than a social organization and is not entitled to the name religion. Religion is the application of theology; and theology is a code of beliefs concerning God and his relation to man. The life of Job was more than an example of patience; it was an example of perfect loyalty; for while his patience did not prevent him from speaking of his birth as an event to be regretted, his loyalty to the Lord led him to exclaim: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in Him." (See Job 10:18, 19-13:15.) Questions and Problems 1. Into which topic of this lesson does the last part of the final stanza of "The Star Spangled Banner," fit? 2. Arrange in the order of their claim upon our. Loyalty the following named causes: freedom, temperance, justice. 3. Explain what is meant by inner loyalty. 4. Give evidence that the life of Jesus was an object lesson in loyalty to law. 5. Show that the Latter-day Saints are particularly committed to this form of loyalty. 6. Name some men and some women to whom fame and honor have come through their loyalty to causes. 7. Mention two or more great causes that are calling for the loyalty of Americans, and tell which you think is entitled to the most immediate attention. 8. Explain what loyalty to an ideal means to you. 9. What limitations should be put on family loyalty? 10. What habit in conversation proclaims one's loyalty to the Church? What habits advertise one's disloyalty to his religion? 11. Present evidence to prove that Job's loyalty was greater than his patience.  Work and Business LESSON II (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE—ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 4 Wuy THE CHARITY COLLECTION? I. To provide, by helping those who need that help, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation for our own blessings. II. To avoid the prayers of widows and fatherless ascending against us. Ill. To offer, in disaster, bereavement, sickness, a means of support for the unfortunate. IV. To supply means to educate or otherwise to aid some people to help themselves. V. To train each member of every household by encouraging him to put by and contribute a small amount each month to help others. You may find it useful to learn the amount contributed per family in your Ward during the past year. It would appear that some of our literary class leaders, and some other people deeply interested in the literature lessons, have not yet learned that it is impossible to obtain a copy of "Joseph and His Brethren." The entire edition has been exhausted, and the book dealers are unable to obtain any further copies of the book. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) THE DOLL'S HOUSE By Henrik Ibsen Henrik Ibsen was born March 20, 1828, at the little seaport town of Skein, where one may purchase a good deal of: silverware, for which the Norwegian market is famous. Ibsen came of Scotch, Danish and German descent. His early years were Spent in penury. When he was fifteen years of age his family moved to Grimstad, a town of eight hundred inhabitants. In 1850 he went to Christiania, now Oslo, to prepare to enter the university. Having had the good fortune to meet Ole Bull, the great violinist, he was called to be threatre poet at jhe modest little national theatre at Bergen. There he remained until 1857. From Bergen, he later found himself again in Christiania, where he remained until 1864. While here, he acted as theatre poet for the Norwegian Theatre in Christiania. Ibsen had been writing plays since his Grimstad days. After his return to Christiania, he devoted himself actively to writing. After many efforts, he obtained a grant of money for traveling. His way Jed to Italy, and now for twelve years he was away from his native country, spending part of the time in Rome, part time in Munich, and part time in Dresden. By 1875 his European fame was established. He returned to Christiania for the remainder of his life. He died in 1906. His contribution to literature was that of a playwright, as he never wrote a biography or even a preface to his plays, nor did he enter into business or other public affairs, but devoted himself solely to writing.. It has been said on good authority that The Doll's House is the greatest of Ibsen's plays. Thomas H. Dickinson says: "With The Doll's House begins Ibsen's gallery of enfranchised women. Ibsen's distrust of the majority of average men had its complement in his faith in the superior man. And it is among the superior men that he places women. From his earliest playwriting he had treated women as of a superior order of humanity, superior in intuition, in steadfastness, in unselfishness." In The Doll's House Ibsen gives us the story of a woman who had been trained for entertaining in her father's home, who had been petted within the home and sheltered from the world outside of the home. She married a business man who accepted her very much on the same terms as her father had  done before him—as a play thing. Finally, she was brought face to face with a very serious situation. Her husband was ill, the doctor told her in confidence that if he were not taken to another climate, he would lose his life. She had no money and knew that her husband was averse to borrowing money. She promised to obtain her father's signature to a note for a loan, but her father died before the signature was obtained, and she forged his name. Then, having obtained the money and thereby having provided the means whereby her husband's 'health was restored, she set to work to make the money in such little ways as were at her command. She copied manuscripts, deeds, and such like. Finally, in order to get the time, unbeknown to her husband, she told him that she was locked from him, hour after hour, preparing things for the Christmas tree. Finally, on Christmas Eve, she said the cat got into the room and destroyed all the things she had made. Difficulty arose between Nora's husband, Torvald Helmer, and the man from whom Nora had borrowed the money. His position was threatened at the bank where Helmer had been advanced and he wanted Nora to use her good offices to keep him in the place. Nora protested the thought of her having any influence with her husband, but Krogstad said he had known her husband since his school days and thought he was as susceptible as other men he had known. Nora was so optimistic over her husband's future that she did not think it necessary to be in any way especially considerate of Krogstad. Nora finally assured Krogstad that it was really not in her power to help him. Krogstad replied, "Because you will not; but I have the means of compelling you to help me." Nora said, "You don't intend to tell my husband that I owe you money?" Krogstad: Hm! Supposing I were to tell him? Nora: It would be scandalous of you (with suppressed tears.) This secret, which is my joy and my pride, he shall not learn in such a vulgar, blunt way—and from you, too. You want to put me to the most terrible annoyance. Krogstad: Only annoyance? Nora (hotly): But just do it; the consequences will be worse for you than anybody else; for then my husband will see clearly what a bad man you are, and then you certainly will not keep our post. Krogstad: I asked if it were only domestic unpleasantness that you were afraid of? Nora: If my husband gets to know about it he will, of course, pay the rest without delay; and then we have nothing more to do with you. Krogstad (stepping a pace nearer): Listen, Mrs. Helmer: GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221 either you have rather a weak memory, or you don't know much about business. In that case I must get you to go more deeply into the matter. Nora: How will you do that? Krogstad: When your husband was ill, you came to borrow £300 of me. Nora: I knew nobody else. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money. Nora: And you did find it. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money under certain conditions. You were just then so excited about your husband's illness, and so anxious to get hold of the money for your journey, that you probably did not think twice about the difficulties it involved. It is therefore not superfluous for me to remind you of them. Now, I promised to find you the money in exchange for an acknowledgment which I drew up. Nora: Yes, and I signed it. Krogstad: Very well. But then I added a few lines whereby your father became security for the debt. Your father was to sign this. Nora: Was to? He did sign. Krogstad: I had left the date blank; that is to say, your father was to insert the date on which he signed the document. Do you recollect this, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: Yes, I believe. Cede Krogstad: Thereupon I gave you the piece of paper that you might send it to your father. Is not that so? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: And of course you did so without delay; for within five or six days you brought me back the acknowledgment duly signed by your father. Then you received from me the sum promised. Nora: Well, to be sure; have I not paid it back punctually? Krogstad: Very fairly; yes. But let us return to the matter we were speaking of. You were in great trouble at the time, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: I was indeed. Krogstad: Your father, too, was very seriously ill, I believe. Nora: He was on his death-bed. Krogstad: And died soon after? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: Now, just tell me, Mrs. Helmer, whether by any chance you happen to recollect which day he died—which day of the month, I mean. Nora: Father died on the twenty-ninth of September. 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN# Krogstad: Quite correct; I have made inquiries about it. That is why I can not explain a remarkable circumstance (draws from his pocket a piece of writing.), Nora: A remarkable circumstance? I do not know. * Krogstad: The remarkable circumstance, dear Mrs. Helmer is, that your father signed this acknowledgment three days after his death. Nora: What? I don't understand. Krogstad: Your father died on the twenty-ninth of. September. But just look here. Here your father has dated his signature October the 2d. Is not that remarkable, Mrs. Helmer? (Nora is silent.) Can you explain that to me? (Nora continues silent.) It is also striking that the words "October the 2d" and the year are not in your father's handwriting, but in one which I believe I know. Now this may be explained by supposing that your father forgot to date it, and that somebody added the date by guess work before the fact of his death was known. There is nothing improper in that proceeding. But it is the signature of his name that my question relates to. And is it genuine, Mrs. Helmer? Was it really your father who with his own hand set his name here? Nora (after a short silence throws her head back and looks defiantly at him): No; it is I who wrote papa's name there. Krogstad: And are you aware, moreover, that that is a dangerous admission? Nora: Why? You will soon get your money. Krogstad: May I be permitted one more question: Why did you not send the document to your father? Nora: It was impossible. Father was then dangerously ill. If I had asked him for his signature I should also have had to tell him what I wanted the money for. But in his condition J really could not tell him that my husband's life hung by a thread. It was quite impossible. Krogstad: Then it would have been better for you to give up the journey abroad. Nora: That was impossible, too. My husband's life depended on that journey. I could not give it up. Krogstad: But did you not consider, then, that it was a fraud on me? Nora: I could not take any heed of that. I did not care in the least about you. I could not endure you on account of all the hard-hearted difficulties you made, although you knew how ill my husband was. Krogstad: Mrs. Helmer, you have evidently no clear idea what you have been really guilty of. But I can assure you it was nothing different from this, nor worse than this. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223 that I once did, and that destroyed my entire position in society. Nora: You? Do you want to make me believe that you would have dared to do a courageous act in order to save your wife's life? Krogstad: The laws inquire little into motives. Nora: Then we must have very bad laws. Krogstad: Bad, or not bad—if I lay this document before a court of law you will be judged according to the laws. Nora: That I do not believe. Do you mean to tell me that a daughter has not the right to spare her old father, on his death-bed, care and worry? Do you mean to say that a wife has not the right to save her husband's life? J don't know the law precisely, but I am convinced that somewhere or another the law must contain leave for me to have done such things. And you don't know it—you, a lawyer. You must be a bad lawyer, Mr. Krogstad. Krogstad: I dare say. But business—such business as ours here—I do understand; you believe that? Very well. Now, do as you please. But this I do say to you: that if I am turned out of society a second time, you shall keep me company. Krogstad leaves Nora's home very much disturbed, and later writes a letter to her husband telling him of the whole affair. Nora knows that the letter is in the box, and she does everything to draw her husband's attention away from it. Finally, after their return from a ball, where she has danced the tarantella with surprising effect, he takes the letter from the box. Nora has had a romantic, idealistic attitude toward her husband, and she believes that when he learns of her trouble, he will be so grateful to her for having provided the means that saved his life, that he will take the whole responsibility on himself to protect her. Imagine her surprise when Helmer says to her: "Do you know what is in this letter? * * * You miserable creature—what have you done?" Nora: Let me go. You shall not suffer for it; you shall not take it upon yourself. Helmer: Don't try any actress's tricks (shuts the door to the hall.) Were you shall stay and abide my judgment. Do you comprehend what you have done? Answer. Do you understand it? Nora (looks at him fixedly, and says with heightened expression): Yes. Now I begin to understand it quite. Helmer (walking round): Oh, what an awful awakening! During all these eight years—you who were my pride and my joy—a hypocrite, a liar—ay, and worse, worse—a criminal. Oh! What an abyss of unloveliness it implies! Ugh! Ugh! (Nora  is silent, and continues to look fixedly at him. Helmer continues standing before her.) I ought to have guessed that something of the kind was sure to happen. I ought to have forseen it. Your father's low principles—be silent!—your father's low principles you have inherited, every one of them. No religion, no morality, no sense of duty. Oh, how bitterly punished I am for ever having winked at his doings! I did it for your sake; and this the way you reward me. Later, Krogstad sends a letter to Helmer which says that he has destroyed the evidence and it will not be produced against her. Then Helmer exclaims in his selfishness: "I am saved! Nora, I am saved!" And Nora asks, "And I?" and he says, "You too, of course." Helmer does not understand the shock he has given his wife. She asks him to sit down, telling him she has many things to talk over with him. Helmer (sitting opposite to her at the table): Nora, you make me anxious. * * * JI don't. In the least understand you. Nora: Just so. You don't understand me. And in the same way I have never understood you, till tonight. No, don't interrupt me. Only listen to what I say. * * * This isa breaking off, Torvald. Helmer: How do you mean? Nora (after a short silence): Does not one thing strike you as we sit here? Helmer: What should strike me? Nora: We have now been married eight years. Does it not strike you that tonight for the first time we two, you and I, husband and wife, are speaking together seriously? Helmer: Well; "seriously," what does that mean? Nora: During eight whole years and more, since the day we first made each other's acquaintance, we have never exchanged one serious word about serious things. Helmer: Ought I, then, too have persistently initiated you into difficulties you could not help me by sharing? Nora: I am not talking of difficulties. All I am saying is, that we have never yet seriously talked any one thing over together. Helmer: But, dearest Nora, would it have been any good to you if we had? Nora: That is the very point. You have never understood me. * * * J have been greatly wronged, Torvald. First by father and then by you. * * * Nora: Yes, it is just so, Torvald. While I was still at home with father, he used to tell me all his views, and so of course I held the same views; if at any time I had a different view I concealed it, because he would not have liked people GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225 with opinions of their own. He used to call me his little doll, and play with me, as I in my turn used to play with my dolls. Then I came to live in your house. * * * Here I have been your doll-wife, just as at home I used to be papa's doll-child. Problem Nora thinks that there must be something wrong in a world where a woman may not be permitted to save her husband's life. She knows that she has been punished severely for doing the natural thing, and so she wonders what is the matter with the laws. At least, she has learned one thing, that if a woman is to have freedom to do the good that is within her soul, she must understand her world. So she leaves Helmer with the children. She rather accepts his verdict that she is not prepared to make them the mother they should have or to make him the wife he should have until she has learned more of her world. The Doll's House is a satire against keeping a woman in ignorance, or the old belief that a woman is all right provided her husband is well informed. The husband may be in the condition Helmer was in, so near to death's door that he cannot be communicated with, and the father may be on his deathbed, or even dead, as Nora's father was at the time she needed his help. Ibsen has been careful to give us a situation where both the husband and the father are unable to give the woman advice, and as a consequence, she disobeys the law and becomes liable to a severe penalty because of her ignorance, which this time means a lack of knowledge of the law. Questtons 1. What opportunities offered women of today make it possible for them to keep out of Nora's difficulties? 2. Do you think Nora was justified in feeling that she should be trained to be a real companion to her husband? 3. What characteristics of Torvald Helmer made him shrink from assuming Nora's guilt, as she believed, at first, that he would? 4. Do you think it was natural for Nora to refuse to be friendly with her husband after he had spoken to her the harsh words that he did speak? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) Lesson 15. Present Status of Our Knowledge of Education. (Based on Part 3, "The Child, His Nature and His Needs.")  (Note: One of our colleagues has suggested that our reference to smoking in last month's lesson on "Adolescence" is apt to leave a wrong impression in the minds of some readers. Lest this should happen, we hasten to amplify the statement in Lesson 14 which seems possible of misinterpretation. On page 171 of the Magazine for March, 1929, we make the following statement: "But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended—due, by the way, to modern business methods—it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago." To this we would add the following qualification: 'This, however, is not meant to imply that its use is not as harmful now as it was formerly. We believe that cigarette smoking is just as physically harmful now as it ever was, and that it should be comhated by every intelligent means at our command. Perhaps a better way to present this statement would be to say that since cigarete smoking has been popularized and extended—due, by the way, to modern business methods—it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette in the world, today, is as immoral as it was a generation ago." In affirming our belief in the Church stand on this point, we can do no more than call attention to the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27, 1833, which reads: "And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. * * * And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."—Doc. And Cov., Section 89, Verses 8 and 18-21.) A. The Gap. Between our Knowledge of Education and our Educational Practice This chapter (16), written by John J. Tigert, formerly United States Commissioner of Education, discusses a problem that is little understood and still less appreciated by the average American citizen. The discrepancy between educational needs and educational practice becomes apparent when one considers the failure of the public school (a) to systematically train for \ GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 2 character development, (b) to deal with the sex life of the child, (c) to cope with the problems of vocational guidance and vocational 'education, (d) to prepare children for the constructive use of their leisure time, and (e) to train them for citizenship. B. The Reasons for a Gap Between Educational Theory and Practice Obviously, the main reason for a gap between educational theory and practice is the fact of social change. Schools can hardly anticipate social change, at least as they are organized at present. The very best they can do at the present is to keep abreast of social change. The more education becomes formalized, on the one hand, and the more rapid is the social change on the other, the wider, of course, becomes the gap between educational needs and educational practice. The author of this chapter has analyzed very effectively the main reasons why practice lags behind knowledge in education. To this list, however, might very well be added two or three other more or less related causes. In the first place, education has not been characterized by the superior leadership that has characterized, for instance, commerce and trade. Other things being equal, young men and women will more often choose business, law, medicine, etc., in preference to teaching. The reason for this, of course, is not hard to see. The financial rewards in such fields as medicine, business, law, etc., are far more attractive than in education. This condition is largely responsible for the lack of leadership which in general has charcterized educational work in this country, at least. The result is that education has been deprived of a good deal of the vision and vigor that it would otherwise possess. _ The limitations of educational practice are, of course, somewhat of a reflection of our prevailing social attitudes and something of an indication of the relative importance of our social values. In the United States, particularly, commerce and trade have assumed supreme command of our life and thinking. Education, character and other "higher wants" inevitably suffer when our values become thus reversed. (This, of course, is not meant to disparage commerce and industry. The implication is, merely, that education and other non-profit-making enterprises which promote the "good life" will have to be more liberally subsidized in order to compete with modern business in attracting men and women of superior ability. C. Education is Becoming a Science An activity is scientific when it reduces the element of chance and substitutes precision and certainty therefor. A subject is  scientific when it is characterized by rules or principles which are objective and verifiable; that is, when whoever applies them will obtain uniform, predictable results. The reason for this scientific movement in education is the need for eliminating waste and increasing efficiency of the educational process in general.. Concretely, this scientific tendency is producing a re-examination of many procedures and traditional 'practices which are at present the very warp and woof of school work. The re-examination of the curriculum, for instance, and the re-classification of pupils, are cases in point. One of the most definite evidences of this scientific tendency in modern education is the highly successful practice of measuring the results of instruction. It is no longer necessary, for instance, to guess at the effectiveness of a teacher's instruction in the matter of reading, arithmetic, writing, spelling, geography, composition, etc. Objective tests, yielding quantitative scores are now used systematically in most modern schools in these and other subjects. In addition to the tendency of teachers' colleges and a number of the wealthy school districts (e. G. Winnetka) to set up laboratory schools for the purpose of trying out new ideas in education, there has developed a tremendous interest in educational research and investigation. The larger school systems employ assistant superintendents and other administrative heads who are highly trained in the technique of research. These and other concrete applications of the scientific spirit and the scientific method in education will, in a short space of a few years, guarantee a more efficient system of education; one which is more likely to keep abreast of contemporary social life than has ever been true in the past. For the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. Why does public education "necessarily lag behind" social life? 2. What reasons other than those mentioned by the author and in this lesson can you give why practice lags behind knowledge in education in your community, 3. Should a state superintendent of public instruction be elected or appointed? Why? How is it done in your state? 4, What are the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Act? How has your state participated in the provisions of this law? 5. What, according to Tigert, has been the greatest drawback to the success of vocational education? 6. Is acomplete reorganization of the public schools needed? GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229 Why? How should this change be brought about? What part and responsibility have a local community in such a change? 7. What is the difference between the German and the American system of public schools? To what extent has the German system of education influenced our own? 8. Why do pupils drop out of school in your community? Has a careful study of this subject ever been made by your local school officials? 9. What is a junior high school? What are its advantages and limitations? 10. Wherein is it correct or incorrect to assume that the application of scientific method will alone close the gap between educational] theory and educational practice? Hills By Christie Lund God, make me as the hills— Strong, to endure The cold, The bitterness of winter's ruthless winds. Give me the character To stand Unmoved, unweakened By the friendly summer sun, Give me the courage To face adversity— Flaunting my colors high, Like hills when summer dies. Yet, more than all Give me a glad, young heart Thaf, spite of winter snows, And summer suns, Looks up and sings As the eternal, flower-strewn April hills. fr eae TE secretaryships offer remunerative positions. Prepare for a Secretarial Position The girl who has just finished scheol, can take courses at this Business College that will give her the ability to get and hold remunerative positions. Day and night classes in typewriting, shorthand, office practices and business English. Call Was. 1812 or drop in for an illustrated catalog. CLASSES ARE NOW FORMING L. D. S. Business College AN iL a) SPECIAL We offer The New Westinghouse '"*Adjust-O-Matic"' Iron latest design with special features affords you Finger-Tip Control of Ironing Heat For the price of $8.50 delivered. For out of town customers we will pay express charges Modern Electric Go, 128 South State Phone Was. 2307 SALT LAKE CITY 7, \ Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.  , Utah ~ When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH ' Beneficial Insurance-- and Why?