EDITORIAL
The First Editor
On the 8th day of April, 1929, Lula Greene Richards will commemorate her 80th birthday. She was the first editor of the Woman's Exponent, and the Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate her at this time. She began her editorial duties before her marriage and continued them for a short time afterwards. Ever since the day when she turned her work over to Emmeline B. Wells, her writings have appeared in Church magazines.
The ability to do things artistic may develop in children in different lines of art. This was true in the case of Robert Browning and his wife Elizabeth Barrett Browning who were poets; their son is a sculptor. Mrs. Richards has sons with literary ability, those who write both prose and poetry, but perhaps her best known son is Lee Greene, a well known painter, particularly of portraits.
We congratulate Mrs. Richards on the fact that her 80th year finds her in reasonably good health, with exceptional mental vigor for one of her advanced age; also with an amount of optimism that is truly refreshing. She has undoubtedly known trials. One of her refinement could not escape suffering yet she loves her fellow men, she loves her Father in Heaven, and in this age of skepticism when everything is being questioned, the Gospel lamp is the guide to her feet. She has joy in the testimony of the divinity of Christ and the sure knowledge of the Resurrection; as, to use her own words, "she draws nearer to the fullness of His peace."
The Seventieth Birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams
The Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate President Clarissa Smith Williams on her seventieth birthday, which falls on the 21st day of April, 1929. On that day the hearts of thousands will turn towards her in appreciation of her kindly ministrations extending over a very active and useful life. In the minds of those who know her best, memories, sweet and precious will arise, evoking from the hearts of all her friends tenderness and love. They will wish that, as the days come and go, she may be a special charge of divine providence; that her health may be good, her happiness secure, and that, in the mercy of heaven, no good thing may be withheld from her. Showers, showers, of blessings we would call down upon her. We commend her at all times to the loving care of the Most High, who knows the righteousness of her heart and what a benediction her life has been to all among whom she has labored. May it be our Father's will to extend her life as long as she finds joy and satisfaction therein, with her children, her children's children, her many friends, and this good earth upon which her lot has been serenely cast.
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Honored
The President's suite in the Hotel Utah was the scene of another festive occasion on Wednesday, February 20th, when a dinner was given to honor three Board Members, but particularly to take note of the services of Sister Jennie B. Knight, first counselor to President Clarissa Smith Williams during the period of her presidency and now a member of the General Board. The committee consisted of Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Corsage bouquets were placed at the covers of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Miss Alice L. Reynolds, and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, in recognition of the cordial welcome and hospitality extended to Board Members during the recent Leadership Week held at the Brigham Young University.
The dinner was arranged especially to give the Board Members an opportunity to express appreciation to Sister Knight. To this end, all the Board Members paid her tribute and were exceedingly happy for the opportunity. Some did it through the medium of stories which were part of Sister Knight's history, and some through tributes to her sterling qualities. The dinner was arranged by Mrs. Emma A. Empey and presided over by President Louise Y. Robison. It was an occasion of festive cheer and good will. Mrs. Knight was presented with a book in a beautiful leather cover resembling Roycroft work?a book that can be used by her for her notes when she goes out to conventions or on any occasion when she wishes to use it. The presentation speech was made by Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, who in fitting words expressed the appreciation of the Board to Sister Knight and their devotion to her.