* * * I have been greatly wronged, Torvald. First by father and then by you. * * * Nora: Yes, it is just so, Torvald. While I was still at home with father, he used to tell me all his views, and so of course I held the same views; if at any time I had a different view I concealed it, because he would not have liked people
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225
with opinions of their own. He used to call me his little doll, and play with me, as I in my turn used to play with my dolls. Then I came to live in your house. * * * Here I have been your doll-wife, just as at home I used to be papa's doll-child.
Problem
Nora thinks that there must be something wrong in a world where a woman may not be permitted to save her husband's life. She knows that she has been punished severely for doing the natural thing, and so she wonders what is the matter with the laws. At least, she has learned one thing, that if a woman is to have freedom to do the good that is within her soul, she must understand her world. So she leaves Helmer with the children. She rather accepts his verdict that she is not prepared to make them the mother they should have or to make him the wife he should have until she has learned more of her world.
The Doll's House is a satire against keeping a woman in ignorance, or the old belief that a woman is all right provided her husband is well informed. The husband may be in the condition Helmer was in, so near to death's door that he cannot be communicated with, and the father may be on his deathbed, or even dead, as Nora's father was at the time she needed his help. Ibsen has been careful to give us a situation where both the husband and the father are unable to give the woman advice, and as a consequence, she disobeys the law and becomes liable to a severe penalty because of her ignorance, which this time means a lack of knowledge of the law.
Questions
1. What opportunities offered women of today make it possible for them to keep out of Nora's difficulties?
2. Do you think Nora was justified in feeling that she should be trained to be a real companion to her husband?
3. What characteristics of Torvald Helmer made him shrink from assuming Nora's guilt, as she believed, at first, that he would?
4. Do you think it was natural for Nora to refuse to be friendly with her husband after he had spoken to her the harsh words that he did speak?
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Lesson 15. Present Status of Our Knowledge of Education.
(Based on Part 3, "The Child, His Nature and His Needs.")
 
(Note: One of our colleagues has suggested that our reference to smoking in last month's lesson on "Adolescence" is apt to leave a wrong impression in the minds of some readers. Lest this should happen, we hasten to amplify the statement in Lesson 14 which seems possible of misinterpretation. On page 171 of the Magazine for March, 1929, we make the following statement: "But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago." To this we would add the following qualification: "This, however, is not meant to imply that its use is not as harmful now as it was formerly. We believe that cigarette smoking is just as physically harmful now as it ever was, and that it should be combated by every intelligent means at our command. Perhaps a better way to present this statement would be to say that since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette in the world, today, is as immoral as it was a generation ago." In affirming our belief in the Church stand on this point, we can do no more than call attention to the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27, 1833, which reads: "And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. * * * And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."?Doc. And Cov., Section 89, Verses 8 and 18-21.)
A. The Gap Between our Knowledge of Education and our Educational Practice
This chapter (16), written by John J. Tigert, formerly United States Commissioner of Education, discusses a problem that is little understood and still less appreciated by the average American citizen. The discrepancy between educational needs and educational practice becomes apparent when one considers the failure of the public school (a) to systematically train for
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 227
character development, (b) to deal with the sex life of the child, (c) to cope with the problems of vocational guidance and vocational education, (d) to prepare children for the constructive use of their leisure time, and (e) to train them for citizenship.
B. The Reasons for a Gap Between Educational Theory and Practice
Obviously, the main reason for a gap between educational theory and practice is the fact of social change. Schools can hardly anticipate social change, at least as they are organized at present. The very best they can do at the present is to keep abreast of social change. The more education becomes formalized, on the one hand, and the more rapid is the social change on the other, the wider, of course, becomes the gap between educational needs and educational practice.
The author of this chapter has analyzed very effectively the main reasons why practice lags behind knowledge in education. To this list, however, might very well be added two or three other more or less related causes. In the first place, education has not been characterized by the superior leadership that has characterized, for instance, commerce and trade. Other things being equal, young men and women will more often choose business, law, medicine, etc., in preference to teaching. The reason for this, of course, is not hard to see. The financial rewards in such fields as medicine, business, law, etc., are far more attractive than in education. This condition is largely responsible for the lack of leadership which in general has characterized educational work in this country, at least. The result is that education has been deprived of a good deal of the vision and vigor that it would otherwise possess.
The limitations of educational practice are, of course, somewhat of a reflection of our prevailing social attitudes and something of an indication of the relative importance of our social values. In the United States, particularly, commerce and trade have assumed supreme command of our life and thinking. Education, character and other "higher wants" inevitably suffer when our values become thus reversed. (This, of course, is not meant to disparage commerce and industry. The implication is, merely, that education and other non-profit-making enterprises which promote the "good life" will have to be more liberally subsidized in order to compete with modern business in attracting men and women of superior ability.)
C. Education is Becoming a Science
An activity is scientific when it reduces the element of chance and substitutes precision and certainty therefor. A subject is
 
scientific when it is characterized by rules or principles which are objective and verifiable; that is, when whoever applies them will obtain uniform, predictable results.
The reason for this scientific movement in education is the need for eliminating waste and increasing efficiency of the educational process in general. Concretely, this scientific tendency is producing a re-examination of many procedures and traditional practices which are at present the very warp and woof of school work. The re-examination of the curriculum, for instance, and the re-classification of pupils, are cases in point.
One of the most definite evidences of this scientific tendency in modern education is the highly successful practice of measuring the results of instruction. It is no longer necessary, for instance, to guess at the effectiveness of a teacher's instruction in the matter of reading, arithmetic, writing, spelling, geography, composition, etc. Objective tests, yielding quantitative scores are now used systematically in most modern schools in these and other subjects.
In addition to the tendency of teachers' colleges and a number of the wealthy school districts (e. g. Winnetka) to set up laboratory schools for the purpose of trying out new ideas in education, there has developed a tremendous interest in educational research and investigation. The larger school systems employ assistant superintendents and other administrative heads who are highly trained in the technique of research. These and other concrete applications of the scientific spirit and the scientific method in education will, in a short space of a few years, guarantee a more efficient system of education; one which is more likely to keep abreast of contemporary social life than has ever been true in the past.
For the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. Why does public education "necessarily lag behind" social life?
2. What reasons other than those mentioned by the author and in this lesson can you give why practice lags behind knowledge in education in your community?
3. Should a state superintendent of public instruction be elected or appointed? Why? How is it done in your state?
4. What are the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Act? How has your state participated in the provisions of this law?
5. What, according to Tigert, has been the greatest drawback to the success of vocational education?
6. Is a complete reorganization of the public schools needed?
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229
Why? How should this change be brought about? What part and responsibility have a local community in such a change? 7. What is the difference between the German and the American system of public schools? To what extent has the German system of education influenced our own? 8. Why do pupils drop out of school in your community? Has a careful study of this subject ever been made by your local school officials? 9. What is a junior high school? What are its advantages and limitations? 10. Wherein is it correct or incorrect to assume that the application of scientific method will alone close the gap between educational theory and educational practice?
Hills