[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | October | Issue: 2 | Title: Nebo Stake | Author: Unknown]

			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held June 28,
1912, at Payson. After the opening exer-
cises Sister Martha S. Kapple made re-
marks concerning the good work the sisters

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, were doing: also gave
the statistical and financial report of the
stake for 1911. President Eliza J. Dixon
said she felt very proud of the Nebo stake
Relief Society; all the sisters were always
so willing to help in every way; was very
much pleased to have President Emmeline
B. Wells and Sister Alice Merrill Horne
with us, addressed the conference in a very
pleasing manner. Sister Martha Simons ad-
dressed the sisters, said she had been a mem-
ber of the Church for 75 years and was very
pleased to be able to say a few words to the
sisters of the Relief Society. Sister Wells
next addressed the sisters of the conference,
made excellent remarks on charity; spoke
of the early organization of the Relief So-
ciety and the work the sisters were doing;
said now there were 50 organizations of the
Relief Society in Great Britain and there
were organizations throughout the world,
so that the sun never sets on the Relief So-
ciety organizations; 40,000 or 45,000 women
were engaged in this great work founded
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister M. A.
Hardy made remarks in regard to WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; advised sisters to take this
paper. Recitation, Lucile Johnson, “In the
Signal Box.” After singing and prayer ad-
journed until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
After opening exercises the conference was
addressed by Jonathan S. Page of Nebo
stake, who made many encouraging remarks
to the sisters in regard to Relief Society
work. Song by Sister Hattie S. Wride,
“Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd.” Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells addressed the con-
ference; felt pleased to be able to speak
to the sisters; said the Relief Society was
the greatest organization of women in the
world; would like to have all the societies
have a library; also when any work is done
to do it all in unison; also related her early
experience in the Church and how she be-
came acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Sister Alice Merrill Horen made
some remarks in regard to beautifying our
homes. Sister Eliza J. Dixon asked if there
were any in the audience who had ever seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith and there were
four who stood up. Sister Amy Hancock
was proud to know that she had seen the
Prophet, and made very interesting remarks
in regard to her early experiences in the
Church. Bishop Loveless made a few re-
marks and highly complimented the Relief
Society sisters in their noble work. Presi-
dent Hyrum Lemmon explained how the
Relief Society was organized. Recitation,
Sister Alice Bale, “The Sale.” After clos-
ing remarks by Sister Eliza Dixon confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing
of doxology, and prayer by Francis M.
Elmer.
			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake, held June 30, 1912, convened in the
stake building according to appointment
with President Eliza A. Hall presiding. We
were honored with a visit from General
President E. B. Wells and Sister McClelland
from Salt Lake City; President Wm. H.
Richards, Wm. H. Gibbs and L. D. Jones of
the stake presidency, members of the high
council, bishops of wards, presidents of the
various wards of Relief Society, etc. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Our Mountain
Home So Dear.” Prayer was offered by


[Column 1]
Bishop John F. Conley of Portage. The
congregation sang “Come, Come, Ye
Saints.” Minutes of last conference read
and approved. President Eliza A. Hall
made opening remarks, bidding all a hearty
welcome to our meeting. Reports were
given by Malad, Holbrook and Pleasant
View wards, all in unity and enjoying the
Relief Society work. A recitation was ren-
dered by Sister Maud Chidester entitled,
“A Mother’s Only Son.” President E. B.
Wells was delighted to be in attendance at
the Malad Relief Society conference; spoke
of the reports against the Latter-day Saints
by those not of our faith; there never was a
greater prophet than Joseph Smith; spoke
on the wheat question and care of the grain
belonging to the Relief Society; obedience,
love, and charity were some of the subjects
spoken on by our gifted sister. A song was
sung by a Lamanite sister from Washakie
association. Sister McClelland of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of the grand work accom-
plished by the Relief sisters; told of her
missionary labors, and of the truth of the
Book of Mormon. After singing and bene-
diction conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Lunch was then served to all by the
sisters of Malad.
	At 2 p. m. conference convened in the
tabernacle with President Eliza A. Hall pre-
siding. Prayer by Brother David Thomas.
Singing, “O Happy Home.” Mrs. Katie
Jones of St. John favored us with a solo.
Sister Sarah McClelland of Salt Lake City
was delighted with our lovely homes in
Malad; spoke of our duties as Relief So-
ciety workers, and the many blessings we
enjoy. A song by Sister Amy Randall of
Malad was beautifully rendered. President
William H. Richards was well pleased with
the labors of the Relief Society; spoke of
the noble work of the women of Zion. Or-
gan solo by J. G. Barret of Salt Lake City
was then given. President E. B. Wells had
long wished to visit with the good people of
Malad; was well paid for coming; advised
having a library in the Relief Society;
spoke of her acquaintance with the
prophet Joseph Smith, and of her experi-
ence in Nauvoo at the time of the martyr-
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. We were then
favored with a piano solo from D. E. John-
son of Malad. President Eliza A. Hall
thanked all that had helped to make our
conference such a grand success, and prayed
that all would feel benefited by coming to
conference. After singing and prayer, con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Pres.
