PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 267 we feel sure that our protest, which was forwarded to Senator Smoot, has received profound consideration. Washington headquarters says: "It is not the desire of the Red Cross that any individuals opposed to the use of tobacco or cigarettes should against their will take part in the furnishing of these articles to the soldiers." Letters to Soldiers. In sending out letters to soldiers, either here or in Europe, spell out proper names fully. Initials are very uncertain and often misleading. Do not use pencils. Be sure your envelopes are stout and well made. Write addresses very plainly — typewrite them if possible. Packages to be forwarded should be very carefully wrapped in heavyweight paper, canvass, or good cloth bags, with the address written on a shipping-tag and the name of the sender also on the bag. hisiiraiice for Soldiers. It is interesting to know that more than $12,000,000 worth of insurance has been written by the Government on the lives of American soldiers, sailors and nurses. This represents financial safety for families and dependants left at home. J^ree Delivery. The Government is appealing to women to exercise selfcontrol and patriotism in carrying bundles home from stores that can be well handled; while all stores are appealed to on the "single delivery" ])lan. No goods will be sent home on approval, and only one delivery a day will be used. We make a personal appeal to the members of the Relief Society everywhere to help as much as they possibly can in the delivery of their own goods and to be good-natured about the new patriotic ruling. State Council of Defense. The State Committee has completed the organization of County Committees throughout the state of Utah, and all are now busily engaged in co-ordinating the various activities of women's war work locally. Educational and Child Welfare features are.particularly well knit, and the work is progressing favorably throughout. Use of the Telephone. Patriotic women are urged to assist in cutting out social conversations on the telephone during the busy hours of the morning. This will include mostly the young people of the house as the older women are too busy in the morning to bother with telephone gossip. However, we make the appeal to all our sisters to join in this movement and thus do a little towards lightening the burdens of the telephone business. Jauette A. Hyde. This month we are fortunate in the presentation of the following articles: MAKING THE GARDEN HELP FEED THE FAMILY. By Dr. M. C. Merrill. Horticulturist, Utah Agricultural College. The problem of making the garden feed the family this year as it has never done before is vibrating with interest and teeming with possibilities. It is a problem worthy of the best talents and the most earnest efforts that we can muster into the service. Merely to plant a garden is not sufificient. No problem worthy the name is involved in that. The real problem comes in the proper utilization of all our garden resources, for the call to the war gardens of 1918 has in it the response to the boastful challenge of starvation and it therefore means that the call must be answered in terms of thought, effort, and results. Food and hunger are in deadly combat and the momentous problem is to make food win and thus end the war. Now how shall we go about it to make the garden do its utmost to feed the family? Fitst and foremost should come our plans in regard to the three things involved, which are: L The garden itself, its location, extent, and soil; 2. The crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant; 3. The actual work of planting and caring for the garden. In other words, our problem is where to plant, what to plant, and how to plant and care for it. Just as thought precedes the act; just as a general lays plans before taking his troops into battle; and just as a definite plan is made before the house is constructed: so should the commander of the garden plan the campaign in advance of the actual operation. In our plans we will avoid the mistakes of last year. While it is a positive necessity that we increase our garden production this year, we should not rashly plov/ up valuable lawns, nor plant seeds in infertile ground where they will not grow or where there is not sufficient water to irrigate them. Seeds are scarce this year and must not be wasted. Turning our attention first to the garden itself, its location, extent and soil, let us consider some fundamental priciples in