The Miracle that is Spring
In all ages rhymesters and singers have delighted to give expression to mankind's never-ceasing wonder at nature's rebirth at springtime. All of us joyfully respond in some way to the power that transforms the sombre face of nature into a thing of beauty. To beautify, to improve and to plan for the future, are common human reactions to the stimulus of spring. The housewife who cleans her home and tends her garden is actuated by the same urge to improve as the business man who scans his organization with an eye to improving the service he renders. In our business as printers and binders, we have always aimed at giving our customers the best possible printing or binding for the price charged. See us or write us next time you need something in our line.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
Printers and Binders Since Pioneer Days
Always Order Home-Produced SUGAR!
In baking of any kind—for cooking of all kinds—for canning, jelly making, jams—delicate frostings —making Sauces, candy—for any
a better sugar! And every bag you buy helps our farmers, our
SUGAR state, and yourself.
Fishers DUTCH BREAD
A Popular Favorite with the Whole Family
LOOK FOR It AT YOUR GROCERS
Home-Produced
A Product Of the Fisher Master Bakers
Index To Advertisers
Deseret Book Co Inside Back Cover
Fisher's Dutch Bread Inside Front Cover
Home-Produced Sugar Inside Front Cover
Larkin Mortuary Inside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College 359
Mountain Fuel Supply Co 359
Utah Power & Light Co 359
ZCMI Outside Back Cover
Ask YOUR Grocer for
Sweetening purpose you can't buy
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
with a new GAS RANGE GAS REFRIGERATOR
Come in and see the beautiful new models. Ask about convenient purchase terms.
Calls for office workers are in SUPPLY COMPANY BUSINESS COLLEGE
Relief Society Song Book is now ready
The Price is 85¢ Per Copy—Post Paid
Address Orders to GENERAL OFFICE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Make Kitchen Tasks Easy and Pleasant
MOUNTAIN FUEL
Serving 23 Utah Communities
28 Bishops Building Salt Lake City
After Graduation—
OFFICE POSITION
about our course and employment service
Salt Lake City Utah
SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII JUNE, 1940 No. 6
Contents
Special Features
The Cover—Angels Landing, Zion National Park 359
Frontispiece—Zion and Liberty 360
The Stranger Within Our Gates Elder Joseph J. Cannon 361
The "Millennial Star" Elder A. William Lund 365
New General Board Appointments:
Pauline Taggart Pingree Professor Joseph F. Smith 368
Alice Bitner Castleton Helen Spencer Williams 369
How a Mother Can Prepare Her Son for the Aaronic Priesthood Vivian Redd McConkie 376
Training for Woman's Work (April Conf. Address) Elder John A. Widtsoe 379
The Burdenless Picnic Emily H. Bennett 383
Mormon Handicraft—One of Utah's Attractions Nellie O. Parker 390
"Let Your Light So Shine" Anna S. Barlow 398
Good Books Make Good Vacations 395
Annual Report Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 426
Fiction
Prayer Mary E Knowles 372
A Problem of Unity Irva Pratt Andrus 386
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 8) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 406
General Features
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde 391
The Sunny Side of the Hill (Colored Wings) Lella Marler Hoggan 396
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 400
Editorials:
Pray Always That Ye Faint Not 401
Vacations That Re-Create 402
Notes to the Field:
Educational Courses Combined 403
Work-and-Business Outlines to be Published 403
General Board Lesson Outlines 403
University of Utah Summer Session 404
Relief Society Beautification Assignment 405
Church-wide Hymn Singing Project 405
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 411
Music Department—Spiritual Uplift of Music Luella N. Adams 418
Lessons
Lesson Preview—1940-41 419
Poetry
Taffeta and Lavender Caravene Gillies 371
My Wedding Ring Lael Woolsey Hill 375
My Task Irene R Davis 394
This Is a Pretty Little Place Eva Willes Wangsgaard 399
Song Lydia Hall 417
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

The Pioneer Fral Drucilla S. Howard This was the trail the wagons made, And the teams of horses and oxen staid, And the feet of women and children small, And men who had listened to the call. What was the Cause and what the quest Of this vast concourse marching west Over the miles of endless plains, Fording the streams through sun and rains? To find a place where all might be Safe and protected, happy and free To build their homes and till the sod; Freedom to serve and to worship God. Year after year others followed the trail, Some pushing hand-carts o'er hill and dale; With stout hearts and brave they strove fearlessly, With unfaltering faith in their destiny. Can you not see them? The fair young bride Trudging along by her husband's side; And children, heedless of trouble and care, Playing a game on the old trail there; And the mother soothing a little child When into the camp rode the Indians wild. And then when the long day's trek was done And down in the west sank the blazing sun, They gave thanks to the Giver of all good For kind protection and simple food. Oft 'round the campfires burning bright They sang their songs in the starry night, And often to a merry tune They danced in the light of a golden moon. And along the way in the Earth's broad breast Are the graves of many who sank to rest; Whose strength had failed ere they won the race And heard the welcome, "This is The Place!" Long has the trail been covered o'er And the tired feet walk there no more, But the path they blazed on their journey here Will live forever in memory dear. "These are My people and this is My land." May we catch the vision of that valiant band, And may we still hear o'er mountain and vale The marching feet on the Pioneer Trail VISION. In the midst of the desert Because brave men had vision. Houses Tall buildings, Templed Spires Rise from the desert’s girth To worship God Who gave that Vision birth. In the midst of the desert Because brave men had vision, Fruit grows, Grains flourish, Gnarled trees And flowers spread a carpet bright To worship God Who gave that Vision sight. Beatrice Rordame Parsons.  The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII JULY, 1940 No. 7 The Culture of the Pioneers Julia A. F. Lund THE narrative of our Pioneers is a gallant story—human and inspiring! The mighty achievements, the splendid discipline acquired through their mental, moral and spiritual training were equalled only by the clarity of vision, unity of purpose and refinements of life, so characteristic of this people. Those who survived in the early. Migrations to Utah became a heroic race. They had made the great decision, turned their backs upon the homes of the past, and risked all upon an unknown future. With every step of their frontier experience they had drawn upon ingenuity, resourcefulness and endurance, upon daring, patience and courage—traits not merely indispensable for pioneers but which must go into the make-up of every great and successful people. Our Pioneers, though descending from many racial stocks and Faiths, were real Americans and were so much alike in age, in wealth, or the lack of it, in ambition and in religious convictions that they possessed a much greater solidarity than is usual in colonization. It was this, no doubt, which caused one historian to write of them: "The Mormons are not a religious sect, but an empire-building people." We like, rather, to think of them as "community builders," which they were from the beginning of their history. Long before Utah became the scene of their activities, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois had lasting evidence of their work, which not only expressed daring and hardihood in pioneering, but displayed a fine culture as well. 'There was always the desire to safeguard the welfare of ° the individual, to increase and disseminate knowledge, and to further the betterment of the group as a whole. They were a part of what was at the time a pioneer movement for liberalizing and popularizing education for men and women alike. Some of our most influential Church members were students of Oberlin College, one of the first co-educational institutions to be opened in the United States. Education, in its broadest sense, never had a more constant and eloquent advocate than the Prophet Joseph Smith. In 1833, the School of the Prophets was founded in Kirtland, and the people were all instructed "to seek diligently... Out of the best books, words of wisdom; to seek learning, even by study and also by faith." In 1840, the establishment of The University of the City of Nauvoo was authorized. This TEMPLE SQUARE IN EARLY DAYS 1. West South Temple Street; 2. The old south gate; 3. The first tabernacle; 6. A pioneer home outside of Square. The thatched roof structure is the old Bowery, which seated 10,000 people. Was for "the teaching of the arts, sciences, and learned professions." The City of Nauvoo was the beginning of the trek which ended in Salt Lake Valley. One of our greatest historians has written: "Save only the preservation of the Union itself, no other task has been so important as the settlement of the West.... Those who built up the West did more even than they thought, for they shaped thereby the destiny of the whole Republic.... The West has steadily tended to accentuate the peculiarly American characteristics of its people.... The winning of the West was the great epic feat in the history of our race." What a master part the Utah Pioneers played in this great drama of civilization, forming as they did the connecting link between the great East and the far West! After the tragic exodus from Nauvoo, and while the people were encamped waiting to begin the westward journey, they were first visited by Col. Thomas L. Kane, representing the Government of the United States. On March 26, 1850, Colonel Kane read a paper before the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. He gave a graphic description of our Pioneers as he saw them in the camps, on the march, and afterward settled in Utah. He attended the party held in the Bowery in honor of the Mormon Battalion before its departure. Of this he said: "If anything told the Mormons had been bred to other lives, it was the appearance of the women as they assembled here. Before their flight, they had sold their watches and trinkets as the most available resources for raising ready money; and hence, like their partners who wore waistcoats with useless pockets, they, although their ears were pierced and bore the loop marks of rejected pendants, were without earrings, finger rings, chains or brooches. Except for such omaments, however, they lacked nothing most becoming the attire of decorous maidens. The neatly darned white stockings and clean THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS bright petticoat, the artistically clean starched collar and chemisette, the sometimes faded, only because too well washed, lawn or gingham gown that fitted modishly to the waist of its pretty wearer—these, if any of them spoke of poverty, spoke of a poverty that had known its better days." ONE of the most pronounced characteristics of the culture of the Pioneers was the great emphasis placed upon the family as the most intimate expression of social relationship. The question transcending all others in importance was the manner in which family life was lived. It had a deeply religious significance; for their Faith taught that the family unit is eternal, that the teachings of Jesus are essentially domestic. The tide of culture of a people can never rise higher than the standards of its home life. Colonel Kane makes the following comment as he saw them "on the march": "Inside the camp, the chief labors were assigned to the women. From the moment when, after the halt, the lines had been laid, the spring wells dug out, and the ovens and fireplaces built, though the men still assumed to set the guards and enforce the regulations of police, the Empire of the Tented Town was with the better sex. They were the chief comforters of the severest sufferers, the kind nurses who gave them in sickness those dear attentions with which pauperism is hardly poor and which the greatest wealth often fails to buy. And they were a nation of wonderful managers. They could hardly be called housewives in etymological strictness, but 433 it was plain that they had once been such, and most distinguished ones. Their art availed them in their changed affairs. With almost their entire culinary material limited to the milk of their cows, some store of meal or flour and a very few condiments, they brought their thousand and one recipes into play with a success that outdid for their families the miracle of the Hebrew widow's cruise. They learned to make butter on a march, by the dashing of the wagon, and so nicely to calculate the working of barm in the jolting heat that as soon after the halt as an oven could be dug and heated, their wellkneaded loaf was ready for baking. "But the first duty of the Mormon women was, through all changes of place and fortune, to keep alive the altar fires of homes. | Whatever their manifold labors of the day, it was their effort to complete them against the sacred hour of evening fall. For by that time, all out-workers, scouts, ferrymen or bridgemen, roadmakers, herdsmen or haymakers had finished their tasks and had come in for their rest. And before the last smoke of the supper fire curled up, reddening in glow of sunset, a hundred chimes of cattle bells announced their looked-for approach across the open hills, and the women went out to meet them at the camp gates. With their children in their laps, they sat by them at the cherished family meal and talked over the events of the well-spent day. "But every day closed as every day began, with an invocation of the Divine favor, without which, indeed, no Mormon seemed to dare to lay him down to rest. With the first shining of the stars, laughter and THE OLD SOCIAL HALL loud talking hushed, the neighbor went his way, you heard the last hymn sung, and then the thousand voiced murmur of prayer was heard like babbling water falling down a hill.... "\.. I have spoken to you of a people whose industry had made them rich and gathered around them all the comforts and not a few of the luxuries of refined life; expelled by lawless force into the wilderness; seeking an untried home far away from scenes which their previous life had endeared to them; moving onward, destitute, hunger-sickened and sinking with disease, bearing along with them their wives and children, the aged, the poor, and the decrepit; renewing daily on their march the offices of devotion, the ties of family and friendship and charity; sharing necessities, and braving dangers together, cheerful in the midst of want and trial, and persevering until they triumphed." Such were our Pioneers! This was the spirit of Come, Come Ye Saints! No people were ever led by a loftier ideal, or sustained by a more sublime faith. They had learned two great lessons in this school of experience, that of self-help, and of giving help to others and receiving it in turn. There was no place for loafers or parasites in this new land, but there were homes for men and women who were willing to work for what they received. Persistent physical labor was the lot of every able-bodied person, and their labors filled every hour of daylight. They believed in divine guidance, and they trusted their lives and fortunes to the direction of those in whom they had full confidence. The element of real and common danger was a powerful bond among the Pioneers as they settled throughout Utah with a strong unity of purpose. As the land was dotted with cabins and cleared fields, the church and schoolhouse arose, along with the first poor dwellings. We might say in the THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS words of Daniel Webster: "Who could wish his country's beginning otherwise?" It is said that the three pillars of American democracy are found in the church, the schoolhouse and the town hall. Certain it is, the West preserved in its institutions the spirit of real, old Americanism after other sections had lost much of it. The three channels through which Utah pioneer life flowed were religion, education and government. Their religion was the vital and directing force of their lives, deeply affecting the conscious and subconscious currents of character and action. Religion and social behavior can not be separated. If one believes himself to be a son or daughter of God, the brotherhood of man is a natural conclusion, and brings with it a new aspect of human dignity and liberal thought. The religious ideal of our Pioneers was to create a society where it was possible for all to live better lives. The Gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and fullness, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, was for them the highest requisite for human service, for self-improvement and for social reconstruction. Every principle uttered or practiced by Christ had its practical application to everyday life, and He is the supreme authority on standards of conduct. It was Dr. Frederick B. Fisher who said: "Earth's bravest knight and truest gentleman was Jesus Christ of Nazareth." He was the unfailing refuge and source of strength to our first settlers when all else seemed to fail. Education was recognized as a fundamental need by Utah's founders, for they knew that the roots of education are in the heart as well as the head. Beginning with the first school opened in Salt Lake shortly after the arrival of the people, Levi Edgar Young has preserved a fascinating story of Utah's educational history. In February, 1850, the University of Deseret (now Utah) was chartered. The history of the Church THE OLD SALT LAKE THEATRE IN EARLY DAYS 436 schools, headed by the Brigham Young University in Provo, is a thrilling story in itself and bears witness to the fact that Utah Pioneers were from the earliest beginnings staunch friends of education, which should be free from prejudice and free for all. The missionary movement, while a Church activity, has been a great educational force. The ideal of government was that all should participate in directing the policies; that it should be shared by all, and that equal justice to everyone should be administered. Every family was urged to own its own home, and this policy always tends to stabilize citizens. Freedom of opportunity was the gift of the frontier, and it meant individual rise and social progress, which came readily into the pioneer mind. It was a period of unusual equality, a democracy of fact, born of the country and life itself. A new set of values was developed when the emphasis was founded upon personal strength, courage and endurance. The patriotism of the Pioneers to the United States is a glowing chapter in their history. Through the person of their great leader, Brigham Young, they voiced their feelings upon many occasions: "We feel the injuries that we have sustained, and are not insensible of the wrongs we have suffered; still we are Americans." The story of the Mormon Battalion, the unfurling of the Stars and Stripes on Ensign Peak, the first telegram to go over the completed line, October, 1861, sent by Brigham Young to the president of the Telegraph Company, were but a few of the evidences of the loyalty of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 Pioneers. This message contained the following statement: "Utah has not seceded, but is firm for the Constitution and the laws of our once happy country." To be an American was, to them, more than being a mere native of America. It represented a calling or civilization that had in it something of a challenge and an ideal for the oppressed of all the world. The hardships of pioneer life took their greatest toll from the women and children. Men did the heavier work, ran the outdoor risks and defended the homes against Indians, but woman risked the greater dangers. To the interminable labor in the frontier home, when she was cook, seamstress, teacher, and doctor, was added the bearing and rearing of children. The experiences of the women developed self-confidence, but they never lost the finer touch. Many were poets and writers of no mean talent, and some of the few first graduate physicians of the West were our Pioneer women. The Woman's Exponent, founded in 1872, was a pioneer paper devoted to the advancement of women; and Utah's daughters took their place by the side of the most distinguished women of America in the greatest social movement of the last century. Pioneer life is always hard, as the first call for necessities must be met; but Brigham Young sensed the need for proper amusements and recreation. These were always of an uplifting character and coupled with education. The auxiliary organizations of the Church were the medium through which much pleasure was offered. The Social Hall, built in 1852, was the first recreation hall for our Pioneers. We are indebted THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS to George D. Pyper for The Romance of an Old Playhouse, the delightful story of the Salt Lake Theatre, opened to the public in March, 1862. Home talent of a very high order and some of the greatest actors of the world graced the boards of this theatre in pioneer days. Music has always played a very important part in the life of our people. Every little community had its choir, its band, and home-town talent. In the field of music as well as drama, we are grateful to George D. Pyper for preserving the story of our Pioneers. Hymns, orchestras, bands, and musicians made a rich contribution to life in the early days in Utah. 437 The majesty of our natural scenery is a challenge to artists, and our state has had its share. It is interesting to note that the statues of Paul Revere on Boston Common and Massasoit at Plymouth Rock are the work of a son of Utah Pioneers. When the complete epic of our state is written, it will show a great contribution emanating from our Pioneers to music, painting, sculpture, literature, drama and all that goes to make up a wonderful culture. But far above this is the inspiration of their example and the achievement which they made in the art of right living, which is, after all, the finest of the fine arts. He MY MOTHER Christie Lund Coles She was no pioneer, she did not share The companionship, and singing of the plains; She did not know the sustenance of prayer Offered about a campfire; there remains No marker where she passed for all she wrought. My mother came, an emigrant, alone, A stranger in an alien land; she brought Only her faith to bridge the great unknown. Her courage and that of many of her kind Has gone unsung; and yet I sing it now. I shed a tear for loved ones left behind, For all she sacrificed and bore; I bow My head in reverence for the dream she caught, For my own faith through her so dearly bought. Preserving the Memories of Pioneer Days John D. Giles (Executive Secretary of Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association ) The Pioneer period is now far enough in the past to bring into relief the real accomplishments and achievements of those sturdy souls who sacrificed everything they possessed—many of them life itself—that the Church might be established and the Gospel preached as planned in the inauguration of the last dispensation. The approach of the centennial of Utah's founding, the frequent occurrence, since 1929 particularly, of centennial anniversaries of important events in Church history and the fulfilment of many of the prophecies regarding the progress of the Church and its members, give interest to the westward movement of the Pioneers, which paralleled some historic occurrences of the past and far outstripped others which had been considered beyond comparison. One parallel is that of the Children of Israel in their forty years in the wilderness on their way to the promised land. In principle and in general purpose the parallel is striking. In details there is little in common in the two experiences. The Children of Israel through transgression and lack of faith delayed their entrance into the promised land and wandered in the wilderness for forty years. The Mormon Pioneers took one year for preparation, and then in less than four months their leader with his vanguard not only gazed on the promised land but actually entered into it. An achievement in the westward trek which surpasses any similar experience in the world's history was the march of the Mormon Battalion from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San Diego, California, a two thousand mile march through a barren wilderness for the most part. Suffering, heroism and courage, and finally the fulfilment of their assignment to their own credit and to the honor of their country make the story of the Battalion one hardly rivalled in the fiction of the ages. In the past ten years much has been done to honor the Pioneers and their achievements and to preserve the trails and landmarks they established. In the decade just closing, well over a hundred monuments and markers have been erected to mark and save the "story spots" of the West. These markers and monuments have been set up as far east as Nauvoo and as far west as San Diego. They have marked trails, landmarks, sites of important historic events and graves of heroic characters. As one contemporary historian has said: "History follows old trails." Consequently, the principal markers and monuments are along the important old trails toward the setting sun. The Pioneer Trail naturally takes first place in the marking pro- PLATTE CROSSING The Upper California crossing of the South Fork of the Platte. Between this point and the Lower crossing to Ash Hollow were several other fording places—always difficult because of quicksand or high water. gram. Between Nauvoo, Illinois, where it really began, to the Salt Lake Valley, where it ends near the shores of the lake, nearly twenty permanent markers have already been placed, and more are planned. Principal among the markers already erected are those at Nauvoo, Illinois; Winter Quarters, North Platte and Northport, Nebraska; Casper, Independence Rock, Martin's Cove, Rock Creek Hollow, Big Sandy and Fort Bridger in Wyoming; Castle Rock, Henefer, Big Mountain, "This is the Place" and Pioneer Park in Utah; and the monument at South Temple and Main Streets in Salt Lake City, which was erected for the semi-centennial jubilee in 1897. Second in historic importance to the Pioneer Trail is the Mormon Battalion Trail, which led from Council Bluffs, Iowa, where the members were mustered in, to Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, where equipment was supplied, through Kansas into New Mexico, Arizona, Old Mexico and into California, where the history-making march ended in San Diego more than six months after the enlistments had been made. After long neglect, this trail is now being given the attention it deserves. To the Aaronic Priesthood of Mesa Third Ward of Maricopa Stake, through the interest of former Bishop Hugh Dana, belongs the honor of beginning the marking of the first military highway to the Southwest. This group in the past two years, partly alone and partly with the cooperation of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association, has marked three places of historic importance on the line of march. The "end of the trail" was marked last January through a cooperative 440 movement which included the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, the California Mission, the Priesthood and sisters of the San Diego Branch, the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association and the Federal Government. This year the marking movement along the trail is arousing wide interest. At Colmor and Caballo in New Mexico, the New Mexico State Tourist Bureau has erected markers in a series, directing attention to New Mexico's historic trails and landmarks; on June 16 an impressive monument on the trail between Santa Fe and Albuquerque was dedicated. It was sponsored by a special committee of citizens of the two principal cities of the state and the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association. Before the year is over, there are indications that other markers will be placed by Scout and Explorer Troops of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. The Mormon Pioneer Trail to San Bernardino, blazed in 1851 by Charles E. Rich and Amasa M. Lyman, the trail to Ft. Lemhi in Idaho, the trail to the San Juan country and others, although dotted with small markers in a few places, have been listed for future attention. Landmarks of importance in Mormon Pioneer history have been marked in most of the western states. Genoa, Nevada, established in 1855 by Orson Hyde when the area around the present Carson City was a part of Utah, has its historic marker. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 old cemetery at Joseph City in Arizona, one of four settlements established on the Little Colorado River, is also marked. These are two of the most interesting of the distant markers. In Utah, practically all of the "story spots" have been properly designated, with the history permanently preserved in stone and bronze. A noteworthy contribution to the preservation and dissemination of our Pioneer history has been the erection in Utah of forty permanent markers by the Utah State Road Commission. While all of them are not devoted to Mormon Pioneer history, the stories of the Pioneers naturally dominate, as the early history of Utah was made principally by our Pioneers. The most recent of these markers was unveiled on May 18 near Smithfield on the Yellowstone Highway, calling attention to the grave of Martin Harris, which is at Clarkston, fourteen miles west, and citing the important part he played in the early history of the Church. This series will eventually include one hundred markers. When present marking programs have been completed, the old trails will be well marked throughout all of the West, and those who come after us will be able to trace the most remarkable migration of history into every nook and corner reached by the Pioneers. The landmarks, too, will be designated, and bronze tablets will tell, if only in brief, a saga of the great West that will live as long as history is written or read by peoples of the earth. After Fifty-five Years In Mexico Ralph B. Keeler It was in March, 1885, that a train of forty-four wagons, commanded by sixty weary and travel-worn men, reached the little village of Ascension, Chihuahua. They were Mormon immigrants, most of whom had left their newly acquired homes in the Great Salt Lake Valley and traveled southward, beyond the Mexican border, in search of a new peace and religious freedom. I can imagine some of those men wondering if, even then, they had actually found rest and a place to establish a permanent home for themselves and the thirty-five women and sixty-seven children whom they had in their company; for this was not the first time they had approached a new country with the hope of permanent settlement. Almost without stopping, the little band hurried on three miles to the southwest, anxious to reach the 35,000 acre grant which was to become the first Mormon settlement in Mexico, and which subsequently they named Colonia Diaz. Soon more colonists arrived from the regions of Utah, Arizona and New Mexico. By 1891, six years later, four separate colonies had been established along the Casas Grandes River and its tributaries, with a population increase to 2,000. By 1911, the number of colonies had grown to eight, some being established in the state of Sonora, and the population had grown to nearly 4,000. As these towns were building, it was in typical Mormon fashion that they were provided with square blocks and wide streets in the residential sections, and farms occupied the surrounding country. Churches and schools, too, took their place along with roads and canals as primary factors for successful community life. It is not unusual that worship and education should have received early attention, for it was religious freedom which prompted their settlement in this foreign land; and the development of the intellectual powers has, from the beginning, been a fundamental principle with the Latter-day Saints. These settlers had hardly founded their first permanent homes until business enterprises were begun. Gristmills were built in two of the towns. Sawmills were erected in the near-by Sierra Madres, and stores —some cooperatives—were established in each of the centers. By 1895, the colonies were practically self-sustaining and were equipped to do the normal functions of young, thriving communities. Threshers, reapers and mowing machines were now in use. Brick factories were supplying their product for many of the new homes and business houses. A tannery was turning out 1500 sides of leather annually, and a small canning factory was processing fruits and vegetables on a commercial scale. They were operating lime kilns, cheese factories, cane mills, and a furniture factory; putting out candy and ice cream, leather goods, brooms, and many other articles incident to pioneer community life. These early enterprises grew rapidly and were profit- 442 able. As production grew beyond local consumption, ample markets were found in the surrounding country. As previously stated, education received early attention among these ambitious settlers. Typical is the founding of a school at Colonia Diaz; for even before the town was laid out, the children were given "lessons" under the cottonwoods near the site. Later these children were moved into an adobe room, where they remained until a schoolhouse could be built. Again, in Colonia Juarez in the same year (1885), Mrs. Anna Romney gathered the children together in her temporary home—a dug-out in the river bank—and here commenced the first school in this settlement. By 1896, not only were all the colonies provided with elementary schools of eight grades each, but at Colonia Juarez was being built a stake academy which was to offer four years of high school work. Nor was recreation neglected; for since the beginning, well-supervised places of amusement were provided where dances, dramas, music and games of their own making could be enjoyed. Standards of excellence in performance and decency in conduct were upheld. No tobacco, liquor or obscene language were permitted in these social gatherings. It was in this manner that the Mormon colonies in Old Mexico had their beginning. Today there remains but five of the eight original settlements, and these are all in the state of Chihuahua; for during the Mexican Revolution, which began in 1911 and continued for several years, many of the homes and other types of property were completely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 destroyed. Three of the original colonies, including Colonia Diaz, were abandoned, not to be repossessed. Farms and commercial enterprises throughout were either destroyed or badly neglected. Finally, as the maneuvers of warring factions made life unsafe for them, even though they had maintained neutrality, a complete evacuation to the United States was deemed necessary. Following this unhappy move, many did not return to their abandoned homes but found permanent refuge in the United States. The population then became reduced to about 1,000, which it remains today. Certainly, under these trying times of revolution, with their fear for life and the safety of property, the morale of the people was bound to be shaken. Naturally, these colonies suffered a serious set-back in growth and vigor. But during the past decade those who remained in Mexico have made commendable efforts to rebuild their towns and institutions commensurate with their ideals. Whatever may have been lost or gained in the shuffling of events during the past fifty-five years, there stands out, nevertheless, certain factors resulting from life in these Mexico colonies which are worthy of attention by Latter-day Saints living elsewhere. The net result appears to be a positive one in at least some of the factors by which we measure character and moral fiber and adherence to the teachings of the Church. Through it all, there can be seen a growth in religious strength. Let us single out some of these characteristics. In 1937, a random sampling was AFTER FIFTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEXICO made by the author to see what percentage of the young people of high school age attended Sunday services. There was a possibility of attendance on this particular Sunday of three meetings; namely, Sunday School in the morning, Sacrament Meeting in the afternoon, and Mutual Conjoint in the evening. The sampling revealed the following interesting percentages: 39% attended 3 meetings 25% attended 2 meetings 27% attended 1 meeting 9% attended 0 meetings This shows 91% of these young people attending from one to three Sunday services on this particular day, which is believed to be typical of their regular Sunday service attendance. This is not surprising, however, when one discovers that the average stake attendance at their Sacrament meetings for many years has been at or near the top in the Church averages. It may be argued that Church-going in rural communities, such as these, is the only Sunday attraction and therefore should be expected, but this appears to be beside the issue. Going to Church seems a desirable activity in our religious program, and these people go to Church. In the matter of the use of tobacco and intoxicants, the same high standard can be pointed out. In 1937, there was not a single case of habitual drunkenness among the colonists, neither was there among the women and girls a single case of habitual tobacco using so far as was publicly known. Use of tobacco among the men and boys was also rare indeed, for not a dozen in the entire popula- 443 tion were addicted to the habit. This is a commendable record. Missionary activity is by no means neglected among them. In fact, since about 1936, almost the entire burden of missionary work in the Republic of Mexico has been placed upon them alone. This is primarily due to Mexican laws which prohibit religious teaching by persons born outside the country. While the Church average for foreign missionaries in the field per 1000 population is about 5, these little colonies in March of this year were supporting 40 missionaries, or 40 per 1000 population. I doubt if this record is excelled by any stake in the Church. In education, their standard is likewise high. In 1937, all but two children of elementary school age were enrolled in school. The absence of one of these was due to illness. In the high school age group only four individuals were not enrolled. It is interesting to note here that school attendance was not enforced by law but was entirely voluntary. On the university level the same desire for education continues. For example, fifty-four percent of the high school graduates between 1933 and 1935 had been or were in college by 1936. It should be borne in mind in this connection that when these students came to the United States to attend universities (most of them to Utah institutions), they were under a heavy financial disadvantage, for Mexican pesos as compared with American dollars were worth about one-half their normal exchange value. Other factors of note are the almost total non-use of profanity among young and old alike, a high 444 per capita tithing, with tithes being paid by children and adults, and an exceptionally high standard of chastity. All these have been maintained over a long period of years, and therefore cannot be adjudged sporadic and temporary. At this point it is interesting to ask the question: "Do these factors which are developed in the lives of the people living in the Mexico colonies continue with them if they move to other communities in the Church, or do they function only so long as they remain in their sheltered communities away from competing attractions?" With the information at hand, it is impossible to answer this question directly. However, in so far as participation in the organizations of the Church as teachers, officers, and missionaries is an indication of the continued presence of these factors, it must be concluded that once they are established they tend to remain, regardless of a changed location. It is a fact that eighty-seven percent of those Latter-day Saint pupils who graduated from the high school of the colonies between 1928 and 1937, and who subsequently moved into other Latter-day Saint communities, became and continued to be actively engaged in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 auxiliary organizations of their new locations, as stake and ward officers, as teachers, or as missionaries. In fact, it seems to have made little or no difference in the stability of these characteristics whether the individuals moved away or remained at home, for of those remaining at home in this same graduating group eighty-six percent likewise became engaged in Church work. It is readily admitted that the above factors do not constitute the sum of all that is good in moral fiber and respect for the teachings of the Church, yet they do indicate a healthy religious growth in that section of Mormondom. Furthermore, if these factors are good—and I think we will concede that they are— then from whatever quarter they come they make their contribution to the total vitality of the Church. There may be other localities where standards of excellence in these same factors are similarly high—and it is hoped there are many of them—but regardless of this, it is readily recognized that these colonies in Mexico have made, and are continuing to make, a definite and positive contribution to the strength of the Church. "Our Centennial will be not only an appraisal of the past but a dedication to the future."—President Amy Brown Lyman. ADAM BEDE: "It's well we should feel as life's a reckoning we can't make twice over; there's no real making amends in this world, any more nor you can mend a wrong subtraction by doing your addition right." —Adam Bede, by George Eliot. My Heroine (A tribute to Augusta Winters Grant, whose birthday occurs July 7) By Amy Brown Lyman Among the heroines of my youth was my beloved school teacher, Augusta Winters Grant, wife of President Heber J. Grant. In contemplation, my mind goes back to the dear old country schoolhouse, and our large, well-lighted room with a huge stove in the center and filled with a lively group of adolescent boys and girls. For the members of this class, it was the last year in the grade schools; and it was, for me, the happiest year of my early school life. Miss Winters, as she was known to us in those days, was our ideal. We admired her for her beauty and charm, for there was no one fairer in the whole country around than was she. We loved her for her kindness, human sympathy and understanding heart; for somehow we knew unconsciously that even though we often failed to meet her expectations she understood that after all we were trying, that we were anxious to learn, were good at heart and were really worthwhile—and she bore with us. She seemed to understand adolescent boys and girls and to realize that their restlessness is due in a measure to their rapid growth, their craving for sympathy, their desire for experience and their quest for self-expression. We were entertained by her dramatic talent and keen humor which AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT never failed to break the monotony of the long school days and to stimulate our imagination. We respected her for her nobility of character, her high ideals and for her true Christian life, which were exemplified in all her associations. As time has gone on and maturity has come, I have never been disappointed in my heroine. I have been closely associated with her all through the years. Under all circumstances and conditions she has so reacted as to satisfy my idealism. She has fully demonstrated the saying that, "People are what they have been." We all admire her today for her faithfulness and devotion to her friends, for her modesty, her keen intellect and her interest in humanity, for the beautiful life she has lived, for her poise and balance, for her freedom from those devastating complexes which mar and scar the personality. We admire her for the high standard of living she has maintained. As Latter-day Saints, we especially admire her for her devotion to the Gospel—for her willingness to live 446 it, and to work for it. She has been outstanding for her ability to live in accordance with her religious convictions and to adhere strictly to the teachings and practices of the Church. From these standards she never deviates and is thus a noble example to the womanhood of the Church. She is a woman of great faith. She loves the Lord and His ways. She tries to live the "way of life" which He has pointed out. She is indeed and in truth an orthodox Latter-day Saint. Not only has she lived the Gospel herself, but from her girlhood days she has used her energy and talent to influence others to do the same. As a lay member, she has quietly worked in the Cause. As a Sunday School teacher and as a stake officer in both the Relief Society and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association, she served faithfully. As a member of the General Board of the Y. W. M. I. A, she served for thirty-nine years, working valiantly for the benefit of the youth of the Church. Her voice has been heard in practically all of the stakes and wards of the Church in the interest of this organization. Her devotion to temple work has been an inspiration. Not only has she given of her time and strength to this cause, but she likewise gives liberally of her means for research work in genealogy. In addition to serving as a missionary in Japan, in her capacity as the wife of the President of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 Church, she has traveled extensively; and everywhere, in her modest but effective way, she has testified to the truth of the Gospel of the Master. We admire Sister Grant as a mother—as the mother of her only child and as a mother to the nine motherless children of her husband. These she has brought up in the fear of the Lord, and their fine upright lives are an outstanding tribute to her motherhood. We honor Sister Grant for her devotion and loyalty to her husband, President Heber J. Grant, our beloved leader. She has always respected his desires and has taught their children to do likewise. She sympathizes with him in his great responsibilities and sustains him with her full support. Sister Grant inherits many of her fine qualities from her intelligent and outstanding mother, Mary Ann Winters, who was a woman of great faith; who was open minded, high minded and wide minded; who was public spirited and gave freely of her time and energy in the interest of education and in the raising of family and community standards. From her noble father, Oscar Winters, she inherits her calmness and evenness of disposition, her poise and balance, her wisdom and good judgment. Her philosophy of life she summed up recently when she said: "I have always tried to be satisfied with what has come to me. I have never wanted anything that I could not have." (Reprint from Millennial Star) (Editor's Note: Mary Grant Judd, the only daughter of Augusta Winters Grant, and a member of the Relief Society General Board, is writing a biography of her mother. Because of the rich life experiences and noble character of Sister Grant, the book is looked forward to with interest. Mrs. Judd hopes to have it completed within the year.) Blessed Event Olive W. Burt Nancy had never in all her life been to a Fourth of July celebration. "A good old American 'shindig,'" she called it in her own mind, a little contemptuously, as she searched for a frock that might possibly be cool on this stifling day. She wouldn't be going this morning, either, if it weren't for Donny and Rosemary. But what could a mother do? Children took these things so seriously. And when Donny had asked her with that anxious look in his eyes, "You will come, Moms?" she had had to promise. But she hated it, and as soon as the parade was over she would bring the children back home to the comparative coolness of their shady porch and the quiet of their own yard. Fourth of July, indeed! And was that any excuse for having little children march up and down in the hot sun, eat popcorn and hot dogs and lemonade, sing and yell and get tired and dirty waiting for the fireworks at night? Nancy remembered, as she slipped the gay print over her head, straightened the skirt and smoothed her hair, that she had wanted to go to a Fourth of July celebration when she was small. She remembered swinging on the fence gate of her aunt's big yard and watching other families go by, straw-hatted and wheeling baby buggies, to see the grand parade and the fireworks. But Aunt Emily hadn't believed in it; and by the time Nancy was in high school, she had so completely absorbed Aunt Emily's point of view that she looked with young scorn on such noisy demonstrations of patriotism. "Of course I'm an American!" she had said once, "but I don't know that I want to yell about it from the housetops. If we've anything to be proud of, it certainly isn't the way we act on the Fourth of July!" When she had first married Terry, she had learned, with surprise, that he couldn't understand her attitude about the national holiday. "Relax, Nance!" he had cried, "let's get in an' celebrate! Gosh, what's the Fourth for if it isn't to let off a little steam? I'm mighty proud to be an American, and this is one day I can shout it to the world. Come on, let's go to the parade and stay to see the fireworks. They're going to be wonderful!" She had given up trying to make Terry see her way; but she had stuck tenaciously to her own customs, and gradually Terry had given up bothering her. As Nancy adjusted her wide-brimmed hat half rebelliously, she thought of the many, many matters in regard to which she had had to fight for her ideals against Terry's easy-going ways. But his dyed-in-the-wool, one hundred per cent Americanism had annoyed her the most. It had come to an open quarrel when Donny had started to school. The children had a drum and bugle corps and raised the flag every morning with a fanfare that sounded, to Nancy, suspiciously like a military camp. During this ceremony, every child would stop play- 448 ing marbles or hop-scotch or jump-the-rope and stand at attention, a small hand at a fluttering heart and serious eyes raised to the fluttering banner. The children loved it, and the first thing Donny had asked for was a drum or bugle so that he could join the corps. Terry had agreed, laughing with pride at the boy's enthusiasm. But Nancy had put her foot down. "It's too much regimentation, Terry!" she had objected. "I am not going to have Donny grow up thinking about war. I simply will not have him turn into a soldier, and the only way to prevent it is to teach him that all things connected with war are abhorrent." "But, Nance! There's something about a drum and a bugle and a flag flying that gets you. I don't see how you can resist it. And it isn't making a soldier of Don. It's just making a good American of him." "Good American, my eye!" Nancy had retorted: But Donny hadn't had his drum or bugle, and he had never been allowed to join the exciting corps. Nancy had even taken it up at the Parent-Teacher Association meeting and had made quite a row. But the silly custom was retained in spite of her, and she had drawn away from the organization in resentful pride. "It's these newer Americans that make all the trouble," Nancy explained to herself. "They are so thrilled with all their opportunities that they want to take part in everything. Their enthusiasm makes them noisy, and the rest of us have to keep up with them, or else be thought callous." She smiled wryly, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 "I'll wager that there'll be more Tuellers and Finklesteins and Olsens and Rinettis at the parade today than there are Jeffersons or Madisons or Adamses." As she hurried down the sweltering street, she was worrying about Donny and Rosemary. It was so dreadfully hot! Why had she ever consented to their marching? She knew well enough why she had consented. It was something in the hopelessness of Donny's voice as he had said, "All the playground kids are going to make a big, living flag for the Fourth of July parade, Mother. Miss Nelson said I was such a good marcher that I could be at the end and keep the whole line straight, if I could be in it. But I told her you didn't like parades...." His voice had trailed off; and Nancy, sitting in the cool twilight of the big porch, had been able to imagine the woebegone expression of his freckled face. "Why are they making such a fuss?" she had asked. "Oh, Moms! Don't you know? The President of the United States is coming to town. He will be riding down the street in an automobile. The big flag will march along ahead of him, and then we'll stop at the park and watch him go by. We move, Moms, and it looks like the flag waves. Oh, it's beautiful! Miss Nelson wants Rosemary to be part of a star. Gosh, Moms, the President of the United States will see us!" So she had said, as casually as she could, "Well, if you want to be in the flag, Donny, you may. I think...." But he had smothered her thoughts in his kisses. BLESSED EVENT So she had made the white cape and cap for Rosemary to wear as a tiny point of a white star and the red cape and cap for Donny to wear as the tip end of one red stripe. She hadn't realized until later that Donny had the enviable rank, the military distinction, of being a sergeant. When they had come home tired and dusty after a hot afternoon of marching, her heart had misgiven her; she had come very close to rescinding her permission. But Terry had been firm: "You can't do that to the kids, Nance! You promised them, and you've got to stay with it." "I only hope they don't faint or get a sunstroke or something like that," Nancy was worrying now. "Rosemary has the nosebleed when she gets too hot. Oh, dear, what if she gets sick over this silly thing? And it is silly! What does the President care about a living flag—a bunch of tired, sweaty little children dressed up in cheap bunting? He wouldn't walk a block in the heat, not he! He rides in an automobile, and the little kids walk. And they think it's so marvelous. You'd think he was a king. This is a democratic country, and I think we should treat the President just the same as we do any other citizen. That's all he is, after all." Arriving at the park, where Donny had told her, carefully, would be the best place to stand, Nancy looked about for a shady spot from which to watch the parade. Under a cluster of trees, a small stand had been put up for the mothers of the children. As Nancy stood undecided where to go, Mrs. Finklestein saw her. 449 "Yoho, dere, Mrs. Arnold!" she cried in her deep, rich voice. "Come up here mit. Move over, Mrs. Rinetti, giff room. Ach, it iss hot, nicht wahr?" Mrs. Rinetti hitched her fat bulk a little closer to Mrs. Olsen as she nodded her black head, over which a red, white and blue handkerchief was knotted. "I say to my Carlotta, 'It iss too hot today to marcha in da parade'; but Carlotta, she say, 'No, I musta marcha. I am de beega girl to keepa de leetla ones in line.' " "Ya, I know," Mrs. Tueller nodded. "Frederick, now, he iss sergeant!" Nancy, grateful as she was for the shade, nevertheless wished she could have a little more privacy. But Mrs. Tueller nudged her intimately and smiled, "Your Donny, too, iss sergeant. Mine Frederick tell me. Frederick say Donny iss one fine marcher, so straight und tall! You come to see him, eh?" Nancy nodded. Mrs. Rinetti leaned closer. "We miss you atta de P. T. A. You no getta da slip to tell you to come?" "I got the notice," Nancy said, "but I can't come to the meetings. I have no one to leave the children with." "Ach, dat's nicht. Mine Hannah, she iss fourteen already, she vill stay mit next time," Mrs. Tueller offered. Nancy brushed the damp hair back from her forehead. "When will it start?" she asked impatiently. "Ach, soon. De President vas late a little. Ach, de President! Ve vill see him mit our own eyes. It makes my heart go tump! Tump! 450 tump!" and Mrs. Tueller rolled her blue eyes in ecstasy. Nancy looked down the street. Yes, it was the foreigners who got a kick out of this sort of thing—the foreigners and the politicians, the soap-box orators and the unthinking people like Miss Nelson, who wanted to do something dramatic. She wished she were home again on the porch. Suddenly, from far away, came the fairy-like sound of a band playing, and everyone stopped talking and turned toward the music. Nancy scanned her neighbors' faces—they all had the same eager, anticipating look. They seemed to have forgotten the heat and the dust and to be transported above earthy things. Then the first part of the parade came into view: the veterans in their ill-fitting uniforms (why did they keep on wearing those same uniforms even though they had grown too stout for them?); the veterans' band; the high school cadets and their band; the railroad men's union and its band. Each unit marched past Nancy's little group, went on to the square, and drew up at attention to see the President as he passed. "Veterans! Cadets! It's all army now," Nancy thought bitterly. But here came the thing Nancy wanted most to see—the living flag, made up of the children of the city. It was so wide it reached from curb to curb, and so long—Nancy's heart constricted with pain at the ridiculous length of that flag. Why, every child in the city must be marching there, dressed in red or white or blue. Mrs. Tueller and Mrs. Olsen, Mrs. Rinetti and Mrs. Finklestein let out a cheer, and Nancy felt her throat grow taut. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 Then Mrs. Tueller wiped her eyes on her handkerchief. "There's mine Frederick now!" she said, "Isn't he a proud boy!" Mrs. Edwards, standing near Mrs. Tueller, covered her eyes as a quick sob choked her. "I was in England last fall when the children were being evacuated from the cities," she explained. "Lines of children walking along, oh, so quietly, and their mothers watching—boys and girls carrying their little kits, with gas masks slung across their shoulders...." She stopped, unable to go on. "Ach, I know! I know!" comforted Mrs. Tueller. "And mine brudder, he has a son, Heinrich, not much bigger as my Frederick—oh, maybe four years older already. But who knows what has happened to him? Perhaps he has marched, too, but where?" Suddenly the sun was darkened. Nancy's hand went to her throat as she saw a dark cloud rise beside the marching children. She leaned forward and peered into that gray mist and saw, marching there on silent feet, hosts of little boys and girls, no larger than these in their holiday costumes. But those she pictured were ragged and dirty; their hair was uncombed, and their little feet were bleeding. Hunger stared out of their eyes, and sickness and hopelessness. There were small, round, yellow faces, with slant eyes looking out uncomprehendingly at some horror Nancy could only guess; there were dark-haired little children running along begging for food; there were blond babies whose blue eyes were filled with stark terror. Close upon the heels of this ghostly battalion came a host of little BLESSED EVENT folks with curious boxes upon their shoulders, children not unlike Donny and Rosemary, but with an unanswered question burning in their eyes. Nancy shook her head to clear the tears that blinded her, and saw again the ranks of gaily, proudly marching boys and girls. Yes, there was Donny! He was the straightest, tallest marcher, and there was nothing but joy and pride in his eyes. Rosemary would be coming now, a tiny point of a white star—— Marching children! Children! The band was playing! What was that tune? Oh, yes, "God Bless America!" Nancy leaned forward and began to sing, "God bless America, Land that I love!" Mrs. Tueller, Mrs. Rinetti, Mrs. Olsen, Mrs. Edwards, and Mrs. Finklestein—all the mothers joined in. The small, happy faces turned for a moment as the children passed. Donny, sergeant that he was, did not deign to wave; but Frederick did. When Rosemary passed her mother, singing so boldly from the platform, she waved her 451 hand joyously, forgetful of decorum. The living flag came to a halt and formed in good order for the President to admire. He came now in his car, bareheaded, smiling, nodding at everyone. Mrs. Finklestein said proudly, "My, ain't he handsome? I'm sure glad I seen him. He looks just like his pictures!" Then it was all over, and the living flag was no longer, but only gay bits of red and white and blue frolicking over the park lawn. Donny and Rosemary came running to Nancy. "Must we go home, Moms?" Donny begged, remembering what she had said. Nancy looked down at her son. "Home so soon, Donny?" she asked gaily. "Oh, no! Let's all go down and get some hot dogs and root beer —you, too, Mrs. Finklestein and Levi, Mrs. Tueller and Frederick and Hannah and the baby, Mrs. Edwards, Mrs. Rinetti—all of you. Come on, it's my treat!" Donny looked up amazed, "But, Moms!" "You want to celebrate, don't you, Donny? And Rosemary? It's Mother's birthday—as an American. Come on!" The Rector advised Arthur Donnithorne in regards to Hetty as follows: "When I've made up my mind I can't afford to buy a tempting dog, I take no notice of him, because if he took a strong fancy to me, and looked lovingly at me, the struggle between arithmetic and inclination might become unpleasantly severe."—Adam Bede by George Eliot. Women in Literature By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll Part I entitled "Can Women Be Great Artists?" The author's answer to his question was an emphatic, "No!" He began: Some time ago I read an article "Women artists—there are no such individuals. Women achieve no more than mediocrity in any of the fine arts. They lack a certain faculty so necessary to distinguished work. They are not fitted to express themselves through the medium of fine arts. They lack the strength and mental power of the male, and every single male essential that enters into art. Down through the ages, history itself reveals that the fair sex as a whole never achieved more than a so-so effect in the field of the fine arts." If this were to be an argument, certain facts might be presented to show why the author's statement is largely true. Other facts might be given to prove that many men who have achieved distinction in the field of the fine arts owe their success to women close to them—sisters, wives, mothers—who have been willing to submerge their own gifts that they might help the artist to reach his goal. Other facts might be called upon to show that the field in which woman has distinguished herself since time began is a greater "fine art" than the production of masterpieces in painting, music, and literature. But this is not an argument. It is merely a statement of some of the achievements of a few women in one of the fine arts. Though women writers are seldom included in anthologies of world masterpieces, many are recognized in collections of minor literature, and perhaps their "mediocre" accomplishments are as necessary to the enrichment of life as the greater masterpieces of geniuses. For as one writer says, "We need not only the great masterpieces to serve as lighthouses to guide us safely past the dangers of life and on into the goals of eternity, but also the minor masterpieces which serve as candles to guide and cheer us through the difficulties of our daily lives." For the immediate comfort and inspiration of each day do we not perhaps most often turn to lines from some humbler poet, or to the solution of life's difficult situations found in the stories of a minor novelist? And among the minor writers of the world, women do have an honored place. This article will call attention to a few of the many who might be considered. Six hundred years before Christ, there lived in Greece a woman poet who was loved by her contemporaries, and who is still loved today. A story is told of a great Athenian lawgiver to whom, when he lay on his deathbed, a poem by Sappho was read. He prayed that the gods would allow him to live long enough to learn it by heart. Plato paid her this marvelous tribute: "Some thoughtlessly proclaim the muses nine; A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, maid divine." Horace, the great Latin poet, says: "Sappho is a kind of miracle, for within the memory of man, there has not, so far as we know, lived any woman to be mentioned along with her in the matter of poetry." WOMEN IN LITERATURE Critics say that her influence, like that of Homer, went far in determining the character of all subsequent Greek poetry and art—to keep it pure and high, above sensuality and above sentimentalism. Sappho was the leader of a group of women devoted to the pursuit of music and poetry. These students were held to the poetess by strong ties of intimacy and affection. This group is compared to the circle of Socrates. Sappho trained her companions in lyric art, sometimes with the view of their taking part in religious festivals. She composed many bridal odes for her students when they left her circle to be married. Sappho herself married rather late in life. Her husband was the wealthy Cercylac; she became the mother of a daughter whom she named for her own mother, Cleis. Among the fragments of her poetry which have come down to us, is one referring to her child: "I have a little maid so fair As any golden flower; My Cleis dear, For whom I would not take all Lydia Nor lovely Lesbos here." Lydia is a name for Greece, or a significant part of it, and Lesbos the lovely island-home of Sappho. Sappho's friends read her poems in nine books, of which we have but fragments. She wrote in varied styles. Fifty different meters can be found in the poems which have come down to us. She wrote on many subjects, but her love poems made her immortal. Two of these were preserved by accident, the rest of her love poems being burned several hundred years after they were written, as being too much for shaky morals. 453 Her poetry shows a fine sense of the beauty in the natural world. She feels all the living beauty of nature, as may be seen from the following short excerpts: "Early uprose the golden-slippered dawn." "The stars about the pale-faced moon Veil back their shining forms from sight, As oft as, full with radiant round, She bathes the earth with silver light." "I heard the foot-fall of the flowery spring." The thing that called forth her greatest admiration was a cultivated, genial, loving soul at home in a beautiful body. She was interested in personal feeling, mostly tender and introspective. She expresses with a burning intensity the inner life, the passions that are generally silent. "To the Beloved" is one of her choice love poems. Although most of her poetry has been lost, enough remains to cause one writer to say: "Sappho's white, speaking pages of dear song, Yet linger with us, and will linger long." Elizabeth Barrett Browning is another poet known chiefly for her love poems. She was the eldest of eleven children of Edward Barrett. When she was fifteen years old, she received an injury to her spine which made her an invalid the rest of her life. However, her health was so much better after she met and loved Robert Browning that she felt that she had been snatched from death by the hand of love. Her father objected to her marrying, so she and Robert eloped and went to Italy to make their home. They lived happily in Florence for fifteen years—during 454 the remainder of her life. During that time a son was born to them, and both she and her poet-husband wrote some of their best works. Elizabeth is chiefly known for her Sonnets from the Portuguese, a record of her exciting experiences during her days of courtship and early marriage. When she gave the poems to her husband, she told him to read and then tear them up. Browning was completely carried away by the tenderness and beauty of the sonnets. He said afterwards that he dared not reserve to himself the finest sonnets, written in any language, since Shakespeare's. One critic says that in these poems, ranging from a surprised despair to an ecstatic idolatry, Mrs. Browning has not only surpassed all those who had preceded her, except Shakespeare, but all that were to follow with the possible exception of Rossetti; and that in this sequence she has not only written her own masterpiece, but perhaps the masterpiece among long poems by women. In speaking of the love that saved her, in the first sonnet of the cycle she says: "Straightway was I 'ware, So weeping, how a mystic shape did move Behind me, and drew me backward by the hair; And a voice said in mastery, while I strove, 'Guess who now holds thee?' 'Death,' I said. But, there The silver answer rang, 'Not Death, but Love.' " One of the best loved of these sonnets is the next to the last one. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach when feeling out of sight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 For the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day's Most quiet need, by sun and candle light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right. I love thee purely as they turn from praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with the love I seemed to lose With my lost saints,—I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death." Elizabeth Browning wrote of other things besides love. Her poem The Cry of the Children has been classed with Hood's The Song of the Shirt and Markham's The Man With the Hoe as voicing with all the eloquence of great sympathy a despair heretofore inarticulate—a cry for those who had found no one to speak for them and could not speak for themselves. These voices crying out against injustice forced the world to give heed to the needs of the working children, the overburdened man in the factory, the bowed and beaten farmer. Her longest poem, the narrative Aurora Leigh, gives her views and ideals concerning poetry. At the same time, she is telling a delightful story and is presenting interpretations and criticisms on the period in which she lived. She says: "I do distrust the poet who discerns No character or glory in his times. Their sole work is to represent the age. This is living art Which thus presents and thus records true life." One of Mrs. Browning's poems, particularly interesting in the present disheartening time of war, is Mother WOMEN IN LITERATURE and Poet. She reveals in this dramatic monologue, through the feeling of one woman, a poet, who lost both her sons in the war of Italy, the feelings of all mothers about war. She has this woman ask a pertinent question: What is the use of fighting for a country if the men who should enjoy the freedom they fight for are not left when the war is over? "'Twere imbecile hewing out roads to a wall. And when Italy's made for what end is it done, If we have not a son?" In Japanese literature, women have excelled from the earliest times. As early as the ninth century, a woman was among the leading poets. In the next century lived another great woman poet whose work, recently translated, is taking the western world by storm. Modern times reveal that poetry is still an important practice in Japan and especially among the women. The modern woman of that country makes poetic composition a part of her life. One Japanese woman in America has covered her kitchen walls with little poems. The following stanzas (tankas) are taken from three modern Japanese women poets who take their place beside the best: "There are many steps Up to my heart. He climbed perhaps two or three." "A wave of coldness passed between us And the distance of a foot Becomes a thousand miles." "There is another Besides myself To weep for him— That is my bitterness." "The white iris 455 And the purple iris Grow side by side in the pond Yet never open their hearts To each other." "My old self Whispers from behind me: 'There is danger ahead!' My young self cries, 'On! On!' " "Today I met a stranger— Though for ten years I have lived with him." "How shall I choose which way to go? To the fiery depths of hell Or to the dullness of heaven?" "We are all standing on the same earth, Yet is not my world Different from the world Of anyone else?" "Behold the cherry blossoms, How they bloom to their utmost, Knowing that tomorrow They must fall." "How disagreeable it is For three women to travel together! One of them is always lonesome." Two qualities are outstanding in Japanese poetry. One is the symbolism. The poet will, by the genius of his imagination, discover the "ultimate meaning of life in the trembling of a cherry blossom." The other is the secret of suggestion "the minimum of statement for the maximum of meaning." Note how much is told in the lines quoted above. America has produced several outstanding women poets. The earliest to achieve wide recognition was Emily Dickinson. Her poetry in some respects resembles that of the Japanese women poets. It is emblematic. She employs lovely and striking imagery; her poetry is full of surprises and challenges. Like the Japanese, she uses "the minimum of statement for the maximum of suggestion." As one critic says, "She 456 fashioned her imagist etchings fifty years before imagism became a slogan." Another commentator declares her to be the most original American poet and in some ways the most remarkable woman poet since Sappho. She was born in Amherst, Massachusetts, in 1830, the daughter of a Puritan father who had a great influence upon her. She loved a man already married, and the abnegation she made also affected her life and her writing. She loved housewifery, but often interrupted housewifery tasks to write a puzzle or a poem. Her life was uneventful. She seldom left her home and had but a small circle of friends and acquaintances. She adored her father and once said, "If Father is asleep on the sofa, the house is full." One trip to Washington and a short period away from home attending a school, which she did not like, were the two main interruptions in her quiet life. There have been many suppositions about her strange disappointment in love. Some writers think the man was the husband of her closest friend. Two dramas, Alison's House and Brittle Heaven have grown out of suppositions concerning this part of her life. She tells of her love in many of her poems. HEART WE WILL FORGET HIM "Heart we will forget him! You and I tonight! You may forget the warmth he gave, I will forget the light. "When you have done, pray tell me, That I my thoughts may dim; Haste! Lest while you're lagging, I may remember him." Her whimsy is illustrated in the following: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 "This is my letter to the world, That never wrote to me,— This simple news that Nature told With tender majesty. "Her message is committed To hands I cannot see; For love of her, sweet countrymen, Judge tenderly of me." Miss Dickinson breathes a note of poignancy through her poetry. "Success is counted sweetest By those who ne'er succeed. To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need. "Not one of all the purple host Who took the flag today Can tell the definition, So clear, of victory, "As he, defeated, dying, On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Break agonized and clear." Often she wrote of death. The following poem is typical of the manner in which she treats the subject: "The bustle in a house The morning after death Is solemnest of industries Enacted upon earth,— "The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away We shall not use again Until eternity." Emily Dickinson gave the following characterization of poetry: "If I read a book and it makes my whole body so cold no fire can warm it, I know this is poetry. If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know this is poetry. These are the only ways I know it." Because of her whimsy, her swift condensations, her "coyness with immensity," her vivacity, her quaint irregularities, her super-observation, her personal magic, she was not understood in her own day. It is said WOMEN IN LITERATURE that only four of her many poems for which she is now famous were published during her life. Now, nearly half a century after her death, she is regarded as one of the most outstanding poets of any age. Edna St. Vincent Millay is the foremost woman poet in America today. She was born in Rockland, Maine, in 1892 into a poetry-writing family. Her mother and sister have both published volumes of verse. She was educated at Vassar and wrote significant verse while a college student. When she was thirty-one, she married Eugene Boissevain, who has devoted himself to the task of shielding her from everything that would interfere with her happiness or poetic genius. She is a charming reader of her own verse, an excellent gardener, a good housekeeper, an amateur astronomer, a collector of seashells, an authority on horses and horse-races, and several other interesting things. She knows at least fifty birds by their songs; she knows thirty varieties of edible mushrooms. She swims, plays tennis, and is a musician. "Best of all, she puts her zest for life into her writing." She won recognition when she was nineteen for her remarkable poem "Renascence," which is still her best loved and best known poem, and one which, according to critics, she has not surpassed. It is an amazing account of a mystic, spiritual awakening from death to the beauty and goodness of life. It closes with the frequently quoted lines: "The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide; Above the world is stretched the sky 457 No higher than the soul is high. The heart can push the sea and land Farther away on either hand; The soul can split the sky in two And let the face of God shine through." Miss Millay has published several volumes of poems including Second April, The Harp-Weaver, Wine from These Grapes, Conversation at Midnight, and Huntsman, What Quarry? It was she who wrote the libretto for Deems Taylor's opera, The King's Henchman. Twice she has been awarded the Pulitzer prize for the best poetry written during the year. Many of her loveliest poems are on nature. A favorite one is "God's World," reprinted many times from her volume Renascence, published in 1917. GOD'S WORLD "O world, I cannot hold thee close enough! Thy winds, thy wide grey skies! Thy mists, that roll and rise! Thy woods, this autumn day, that ache and sag And all but cry with colour! "Long have I known a glory in it all, But never knew I this; Here such a passion is As stretcheth me apart,—Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year; My soul is all but out of me,—let fall No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call." Besides the poets discussed, there are, of course, many others of almost as great importance. Nor is it alone in poetry that women have achieved in the literary field. There are distinguished writers of other types of literature as well, particularly of the novel. Some of our great women novelists will be discussed in next month's issue of the Magazine. The Church Welfare Program By Elder Harold B. Lee Managing Director, Church Welfare Program (Relief Society Conference Address, April 3, 1940) This afternoon I have been asked to talk briefly to the subject of types of welfare projects that might be undertaken by the Relief Society. When I consider that subject, I find myself somewhat at a loss to give you specific suggestions because of the varied conditions under which you live. I am mindful of a statement made by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., recently in which he said: "One of the dangers that faces the whole Church is that we are trying from our central organizations to prescribe every detail which you people out in the field are to do. That is absolutely wrong. It never provides any growth for the people in the field. They spend all their time trying to follow your directions, all initiative is destroyed. All that we should do here from the center is to suggest the general plan, and to you should come the responsibility and the necessity of developing the details. Otherwise, I repeat, we crush your initiative. This Church, to use a modern term, must not be regimented, for any Church or organization or system that is regimented is on the road to decay." And so it shall not be my purpose here today to present what may appear to be a formula, but merely some general suggestions to which you might supply the details as they may seem to meet your own peculiar circumstances. The first point in the Relief Society's responsibility in the welfare plan is to assume the responsibility for making the initial survey on the green card for the ward employment record. We have been talking about that survey for four long years. I hold in my hand here a report showing that despite the fact that it has been urged for four years, fifty per cent of the wards in the Church as yet do not have any cards and have not made any survey. We think we have pleaded long enough with the brethren of the Priesthood; and as Sister Lyman suggested in a meeting some time ago, I would like to say that we are looking to you Relief Society presidents to see that this survey is made, realizing that intelligent activity in the welfare plan cannot be conducted until it is completed. So may we assume that with this suggestion that the survey is necessary, you sisters have received a commission, which I trust you will hear more of from Sister Lyman. The second point for Relief Society to observe is attendance at the welfare meetings. Some of you have asked, "Is a ward welfare committee necessary?" Let me ask you, "Do you think a Relief Society organization is necessary?" Let me ask you, "Do you think a ward bishop is necessary in a ward? Do you think a personal welfare committee composed of the Priesthood brethren is necessary in the Church?" Those who preside seem to think so, and we assume that they know what they are doing. With these Church THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM agencies charged with the responsibility of looking into the welfare of the membership of the Church in a ward, may I ask you, can you see the confusion that would result if the separate agencies all set about separately to handle welfare matters in their own way without any consultation? It needs no argument to convince you that consultation is absolutely essential, and that this consultation should take place in a weekly ward welfare committee meeting where the program can be mapped out and plans and assignments made for the ensuing week. Those attending the meeting would be the bishop, the Relief Society president and her work director, the personal welfare chairman of the high priests, seventies, elders, and Aaronic Priesthood, and the ward work director. Some have said, "Are not these matters to be considered so confidential that they should not be discussed by such a large group?" It is rather an interesting thing that the objection to the holding of these meetings and this consultation comes almost in every instance from those who are not holding the meetings regularly. It reminds me of what President Grant says, "The only people who complain about what is done with the tithing are those who do not pay tithing." That we find to be true with respect to those welfare committees reporting their lack of activity. To those who doubt the wisdom of this consultation, may we say to you that if all you propose to do with the persons needing assistance is to give them an order on the storehouse, or a little cash, you had better keep your activities secret; but 459 if your purpose is to help to find work and get employment for them, you need not hesitate to speak of it, and those you are trying to assist will not be offended. If my name is before your committee, and all you are going to do about my problem is to hand me an order on the storehouse, then keep it a secret. I would not want you to talk about it. But if you are going to help me to find a job, if you are trying to work out ways and means so that I can work for what I need, I would want you to make it known to all who are in a position to help. Likewise, with all individuals in need, what your committee proposes to do in each case will determine the kind of secrecy that the committee should exact from its members. Necessarily, the discussion that takes place in a welfare meeting should be kept confidential and sacred to those who attend. The question has been asked as to who should be custodian of the ward file after the survey has been made. It belongs to the bishop of the ward, and as the ward executive he may designate his special secretary or ward clerk, his Relief Society president or ward work director, whichever one seems to have the ability, in order to maintain an accurate record. The employment file should be kept up to date, and there should be information from each committee member as to whether or not there has been any change in the employment record for the past week. After the report has been brought up to date, then it should be found out what projects are available for workers. The person who takes care of this work should see 460 that the work directors are given instructions as to the assignment of workers to projects. If every person who goes from that meeting makes note of what he is to do for the ensuing week, there should be little need for making constant reference to the ward file to obtain information contained there. I should say that the third point of importance in the Relief Society's responsibility in the welfare plan is participation in the distribution of commodities that are produced in the welfare plan. We have been making wonderful strides in production, but up to the present time we have not been able to distribute as well as we have been able to produce. Some time ago we considered what we called "family budgets." There has been a budget suggested by the Relief Society which lists the various kinds and amounts of foodstuffs for an average person for a given period. On this basis, foodstuffs have been distributed. We have also received from the Utah State Agricultural College and the U. S. Department of Agriculture figures giving estimates of amounts of various food products needed for each person. But the unfortunate thing is that the Relief Society distribution budget does not agree with the welfare production budget, or does not take into account the items produced and on hand in the welfare program, with the result that we are producing in some instances far more than the Relief Society budget suggests, and in some instances far less. Can you understand the confusion that will result if you do not inform yourself as to what the storehouse has in stock? Seek to issue orders on the storeRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 house for commodities that are there available for distribution. Without that intelligent understanding, can you see how much wasted food is sure to result? Bishop LeGrand Richards has spoken again of the careful family analysis. That is the fourth point and the prime responsibility of the Relief Society organization—analyzing the family needs and suggesting to the bishop, either by orders on the storehouse or otherwise, the requirements of those people whom they assist. In aiding the needy, every effort must be made to make those whom you assist feel they are not in a separate class. They must not be made to feel that they are a burden that unfortunately must be borne. They must feel that they are brothers and sisters in full fellowship with you; they must be made to forget their misfortunes rather than to have them emphasized; you must consider and treat them as you would treat your own blood brother or sister who might be in distress. When these fall upon misfortune, you do not try to impress upon them that they are not quite up to standard, nor quite your equal. What you do under such circumstances is to try to build them up and make them forget their misfortune. Do so with your Church brethren and sisters. In order that you might get clearly in mind what the Church is doing at the storehouse, 749 West Seventh South, you are advised to avail yourselves of the opportunity of visiting there. I was there this morning, and as familiar as I am with the kind of production program which has been carried out, I was astounded to see the display. Go there, and make a note of the commodities. Your THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM storehouse may have a full variety of the commodities that are there, upon proper cooperation with the general welfare committee. The fifth point in the responsibility of the Relief Society is to develop welfare projects in which the Relief Society sisters might participate. You may measure the effectiveness of your teaching to those who are being assisted by a very simple standard. If your people come to you and ask if there is available some work for them to do in the welfare plan, then you may know that they understand that work is being provided for all able-bodied persons. If they merely ask if they may have an order on the storehouse, it would appear that you are not doing your job well. Take precaution to have your people understand that work is just as essential as supplying the necessities, and teach them all to come inquiring for work opportunities, in the welfare plan. That becomes your challenge. And if they understand that, it would be the ideal that work be provided before the necessity arises, so that what they receive will be in compensation for work they have done, rather than an order in anticipation of what they may do. I shall class these projects under four different classifications: (1) personal projects; (2) cooperative effort for the benefit of others; (3) community activities in meeting production needs of the welfare plan and other activities of community value; (4) vocational training to prepare the present unemployed to qualify for work in private industry. Under personal projects are types of activities that may be assigned to 461 individuals to work for themselves. Someone has said in council upon these matters that where you have a man in need who cannot get work to do for the ward, or the stake, or for some private person or enterprise in order to compensate for what you are providing for him, then in order that you may find some labor for him to do so that what you do may not be just charity, let him work for himself around his own place or home. For example, you will probably find his house needs a coat of paint. Help him to get the paint and then let him paint his own house in exchange for what he gets from you. If you can get a man to paint his own house in exchange for what you give him, it will not be long until he is off relief. That is a sound bit of counsel. In this connection, may I suggest beautification. What about some shrubs? What about fences that need fixing? Projects for those being assisted might begin in their own homes. If you are going to stimulate home canning, you should provide the right products and instructions. If you are going to require people to do their own sewing, help them to get their own material. If it be gardens, you might help them get the seed, rake, hoe, etc. Such projects should be required of every person being assisted in the welfare plan. In cooperative effort for the benefit of others, you might consider the possibility of a community flower garden, where people can get shrubs and flowers. Some have provided such a place. Have you thought about a ward conservation program for those not actually on relief? I refer you to last year's Priesthood 462 manual entitled Priesthood and Church Welfare, pages 58-59. Here you will find a discussion of that type of activity. I am wondering about home nursing. Have you ever thought of having women from homes being assisted go into other homes to take care of the sick, for which they might receive commodity orders and assistance from the ward bishop? Perhaps you have elderly people who cannot work at physical labor. Have them go to the temple and do work there on the names of those who have worked so hard to secure them. Have you ever thought of assigning a sister to tend the children of other sisters who are needed at the cannery— children's nursing service? Canning and sewing, under the supervision of your ward or stake work director, and grain storage are community activities which will help in meeting the production needs of the welfare plan. If you go to the storehouse, you will see a grain elevator which takes care of 318,000 bushels of wheat. It would be a fine thing if we could foster vocational training to prepare the present unemployed to qualify for work in private industry. Girls brought to work in the office of your storehouse should be trained; likewise, the telephone girls and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1940 women at sewing centers. If there is machine work to be done, they should be trained efficiently. You can suggest recipes and methods of home canning to those working at canning centers; card wool and cotton for batts; recruit girls for training now available in our school system; train girls and women for domestic service in homes where the owners are willing to pay well for efficient service. Educational activities might include instructions to Church members in vital matters pertaining to the welfare plan: in making and working to a home budget plan; in the preparation and use of welfare plan food; in the art of getting out and keeping out of debt; in handicraft; in useful and essential home practices, such as home breadmaking and dressmaking. Are you aware that ninety percent of those now being assisted are from homes where the mother does not know how to bake bread? Invite someone from the Agricultural Department to inform you of its program, so that as wives you may help your husbands carry out this part of the Church welfare plan. I hope you will keep in mind that all I have said here today is intended to stimulate you to stand back of the brethren of the Priesthood. PERSPECTIVE Youth thinks of death as some dark end To laughing, loving, living; Age learns to walk with death as friend, Not taking all, but giving! —Olive C. Wehr. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon July—There is solace for the saddest heart in the cadent fragrance of a summer day. Was Brigham Young dreaming when he said, "Store grain against a day of famine, for thousands will come to Zion to be fed." Ruskin says, "Some dreams are truer than some awakings." Today half the earth's inhabitants are facing starvation. Let those less stricken awaken to their needs and plant and sow and reap every available acre unscathed by the demon of war. Anne Morgan, while directing her ambulance contingent on the fields of France, permitted her beautiful gardens on Old Bedford road to be used by the Friends of France organization for parties and exhibits to raise funds for war sufferers. Alice Blinn, associate editor of the Ladies Home Journal, was the recipient this year of the Anna W. Porter award for the most creative and constructive work by a member of the American Woman's Association. Crown Princess Frederica had a son born June 2, heir to the throne of Greece. Do the stars foretell a throne for this young prince? The Grand Duchess with the prince consort and their children fled in terror from Luxembourg in May. Like other royal refugees, they are wanderers. Truly, "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown." Carrie Chapman Catt, moving spirit for the Woman's Centennial Congress, called for November to commemorate the woman's century, 1840-1940, is busy organizing in the several states. The Order of Women Legislators is sponsoring the work in most of the states. Lovina Gibson Andrus, the last but one of Utah's original pioneers of 1847, died last month at the age of 98. A courageous and valiant woman, her life of almost a century was full of rich experiences and vivid memories. Delia Winters Booth, of Provo, Utah, who died last month, was outstanding in many lines of endeavor. She was an early educator and artist, established a woman's cooperative store, engaged in the silk industry, and was active in church and civic work. Mrs. Sarah L. Allred at 85, as she took her first plane ride last month, said she was delighted with the convenience of modern transportation. She went from Salt Lake to San Francisco to visit her daughters and, incidentally, take in the Fair. E. M. Delafield has another charming story of her Provincial Lady, this time in War Time. The Whippoorwill by Marjory Kinnan Rawlings, Mr. Skeffington by Elizabeth, The Bird in the Tree, by Elizabeth Goudge are all fine books for summer reading. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS, Motto—Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman - - - President Marcia K. Howells - - - First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Luella N. Adams Gertrude B. Gerlitz Zona B. Fetzer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman  

Vol. XXVII JULY, 1940 No. 7 EDITORIAL Our Anchor of Trust and Safety From the pulpit and through the press, by precept and example, for more than one hundred years the leaders of the Church have been teaching the Latter-day Saint people the principles of the Gospel. They have exhorted us to live the laws and keep the commandments; to uphold, both at home and abroad, Church standards. Strict adherence to these standards would not only make a strong and influential people, but it would make a happy and secure people. Yet, how far removed we are from perfection in this regard! We accept the wisdom of the teachings; we recognize the truth embodied in them, but we are inclined to be apathetic with regard to living them. The good life we know to be the desirable life, but it is also the hard one. The Savior said, "... Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Matt. 7:14). Latter-day Saint standards are behavior patterns, which if adopted as a way of life would bring complete life fulfillment. To say that one standard is more important than another would be false. Each has its place in the plan of life and salvation. But there are times and circumstances when certain standards take on special significance in our lives. At the present time, we could with profit turn our attention to the importance of secret and family prayers. There probably has never been a time in the history of the world when the prayers of the righteous were more needed, and there has never been a time when humanity more needed to pray. That evil is rampant in the world, none can gainsay. Its influences are so strong and its impacts so powerful that resistance requires fortitude and stamina to a pronounced degree. Things which are "not good for man" are not only allowed but are actually encouraged. Liberty has in too many instances become license. A spirit of recklessness characterizes our time, and an attitude of "what's the use?" prevails. A powerful restraining influence is needed in today's world. We need to pray, our children need to pray, that we may constantly be reminded that a Supreme Father rules over all, that life has purpose EDITORIAL and direction; "that like David of old we may feel and know that there is no spot so dark and no place so far removed that the all-seeing eye of God is not upon us, and that we will be held accountable for our deeds." There is no finer, no more wholesome, no more powerful restraining influence than an unwavering belief in God, a God who is continually watching over us. Our belief in God becomes strong through prayer. In today's world we are sorely in need of the comforting and sustaining influence of prayer. The destructive forces of war are laying low the mighty nations of the earth; distress is all about us; the very foundations of our social order seem to be shifting. Mankind feels insecure, wondering what the future holds. When the conflicts of life are greatest, when we realize most our own inadequacies, a belief in God is an unfailing source of comfort and strength. If we will but seek the Father in fervent and humble prayer, a God of understanding and love will 465 sustain us in our trials and inspire and direct us in our onward course. The Lord has said: "All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your diligence, faithfulness and prayers of faith" (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 104:36). "Prayer is an expression of faith, and it is by faith, which impels to obedience, that we obtain all our blessings." The Savior commanded His disciples to pray unceasingly and always in His name. He had in mind their welfare. He loved His disciples and was concerned for their well-being. It was prayer that shook the Heavens, turned the key in the lock, and opened up the glories of a new Gospel dispensation?the prayer of a guileless, fourteen-year-old boy. It will be our prayers, our constant petitions, both in the silence of our chambers and as we kneel with our family groups, that will be our anchor of trust and safety in a disturbed world. ADAM BEDE: "God distributes talents to every man according as He sees good. But thee mustna undervalue prayer. Prayer mayna bring money, but it brings us what no money can buy?a power to keep from sin, and be content with God's will, whatever He may please to send. If thee wouldst pray to God to help thee, and trust in His goodness, thee wouldstna be so uneasy about things." ADAM BEDE speaking: "I've seen pretty clear, ever since I was a young 'un, as religion's something else besides notions. It isn't notions sets people doing the right thing?it's feelings.... I found it better for my soul to be humble before the mysteries o' God's dealings, and not be making a clatter about what I could never understand. And they're poor foolish questions after all; for what have we got either inside or outside of us but what comes from God?" "Devout worshipers never allow inconveniences to prevent them from performing their religious rites."?Adam Bede, by George Eliot. NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society Annual Stake Conferences "Notes to the Field," published in the Relief Society Magazine for February, 1940, page 113, announced the new policy of holding annual stake conferences of the auxiliary organizations in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as formerly. These auxiliary conferences are not to be held in the month in which the regular quarterly stake conference occurs. Annual Conference in Lieu of Union Meeting It has not been possible to schedule the conferences in all stakes on the usual day of the union meeting, but it is planned that the conference in the month in which it is held will replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a conference is not scheduled may forego their union meeting for the month in which one of the auxiliaries has an annual conference. Both the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association will be holding annual stake conferences for their respective groups during the second half of this year. Therefore, in those stakes which hold conjoint union meetings, the union meeting for all the auxiliaries may be dispensed with for the month in which either the Relief Society or the Mutual Improvement Association has scheduled an annual conference in the stake. Accordingly, the separate stake conferences of these two auxiliaries have been scheduled either for different times in the same month, or with an intervening month between them, so that the union meeting will not be replaced in two consecutive months by a stake auxiliary conference. However, inasmuch as some of the stake conferences are necessarily scheduled during the month of September when stakes may especially desire to hold union meetings preparatory to the beginning of regular Relief Society weekly meetings on October 8, such necessary preparation meeting may, of course, be held. Presented herewith is a schedule of the tentative dates of the annual stake Relief Society conferences which also indicates which stakes are to meet separately, and which are to be combined with another stake. One-Stake and Two-Stake Conferences The Relief Society annual stake conferences are planned for a combination of two adjoining stakes in those instances where it is feasible and convenient for them to meet together. According to the present schedule, there will be 43 one-stake conferences and 43 two-stake conferences, a total of 86 conferences reaching 129 stakes of the Church ?all but Oahu in Hawaii to which the Relief Society will send no representative of the General Board this year. Nearly all of the conferences are scheduled to be held on a Sunday, but a few week-day con- NOTES TO THE FIELD 467 [Schedule of conference dates follows with detailed listing of stakes and dates] The Conference Program The Relief Society conference is to consist of four separate meetings, all scheduled to be held on the same day. The proposed tentative program, as it is arranged for one-stake conferences, appears on page 469. In adapting this schedule of meetings to those conferences where two stakes are represented, the executive officers of the stake in which the conference is held will meet with the representative of the General Board at 9:00 a. m., the executive officers of the visiting stake will enter the meeting at 9:30, the executive officers of the home stake will be dismissed at 9:45 a. m., and the officers of the visiting stake will remain in session with the General Board representative until 10:15. This plan allows the executive officers of each stake one-half hour with the General Board member in which to discuss their individual stake problems, and fifteen minutes when officers from both stakes are in conjoint session for the discussion of common problems. Other adaptations of the program are necessary in those instances where two stakes are combined for one conference and in those instances where a week-day conference is scheduled. These changes will be conveyed by letter to the stakes concerned. Stake and ward officers will please note that no general session for all Relief Society members is planned as a part of these stake conferences. The elimination of a general session, and the restriction of the conference meetings to one day are in keeping with the desire of the General Authorities of the Church that auxiliary work be simplified wherever it is possible to do so, Furthermore, it is the policy of the General Board to work directly with stake boards, who, in turn, work with the local Societies. Accordingly, the representative of the General Board who attends the Relief Society annual stake conference will discuss the various phases of Relief Society work with 469 the stake executive officers and board, but the two afternoon sessions of the conference will be extended to include, respectively, ward executive officers and class leaders and ward executive officers and bishops. [Detailed program outline follows] Interest on Relief Society Wheat Trust Fund The Presiding Bishop's Office, which holds in trust the wheat fund owned by the Relief Society in hundreds of wards and by some of the stakes, is making the annual interest payment on this fund on July 1, 1940. This interest is paid by means of check for all amounts of fifty cents or more; amounts of less than fifty cents will be mailed direct to Relief Society presidents in the form of postage stamps. The checks are drawn in favor of the Relief Societies who have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops of the wards for ward Relief Societies, and to the stake president for stake Relief Societies. All Relief Society presidents whose organizations have ownership in this fund are requested to obtain the checks from their respective bishops at once. It is requested that these checks be cashed immediately, and that the endorsement on the reverse of the check be in the name of the Society followed by the name of the Relief Society president. All interest payments, whether received in the form of check or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on wheat trust fund. Relief Society officers will note that the amount of interest received this year (1940) is slightly lower than the amount received in 1939. The lower amount is due to the conversion of part of the trust fund into wheat for storage and to reduction of the interest rate on the remaining trust fund to four per cent. It is probable that further amounts will also be reinvested in wheat in the future. Therefore, inasmuch as interest is not paid on the amount which is in the form of wheat, the Societies having ownership in the fund may expect an even lower amount of interest next year for maternity and health work. The Relief Society is appreciative of the wise handling of the wheat trust fund by the Presiding Bishopric which has made it possible for the various local Societies who own an interest in the fund to receive returns in interest at the comparatively high rate which has been allowed during the past years, especially when it is realized that interest rates paid by banks have dwindled materially during this period. Support of Red Cross Calls by the Relief Society The General Board of Relief Society and several of the stake boards and ward Relief Societies have been approached by the local Red Cross chapters with the request that they collect funds through the organization in response to the call by the Red Cross for war relief funds, and with the request that Relief Society meetings be devoted to sewing for the Red Cross. As stated in the Official Instructions of President Amy Brown Lyman, at the general conference of Relief Society, April 3, 1940, and published in the Relief Society Magazine for May, 1940, page 300, "The policy of the General Board is for the Relief Society NOTES TO THE FIELD to conserve its energy, strength, and funds for its own maintenance and special work and that the Society should not be used to promote the work of other organizations or of individuals. This statement does not apply to Relief Society women as individuals?they are, of course, free to take up any work they see fit. There is no objection, however, to the Relief Society cooperating with other agencies in community betterment programs or social action, but it is advised that the organization maintain its own identity in all such cooperative work." Accordingly, the policy of the General Board, approved by the First Presidency, with respect to Red Cross calls for funds is to give publicity to them and to encourage members of the Relief Society to respond to such calls, as individuals. This means that the Relief Society would not be used as an agency for the actual collection of funds. With respect to sewing in Relief Society meetings for the Red Cross, the present attitude of the Board is that the Relief Society might sew for the 471 Red Cross at the regular monthly work meeting, provided the Society has no sewing to do for the Church welfare program, or for the needs of dependent families under the care of the bishop or ward Relief Society. Relief Society women are encouraged to respond as individuals to appeals made by the Red Cross for women to sew, either in their own homes or at sewing centers established by the Red Cross. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is whole-heartedly in accord with the worthy purposes of the Red Cross. Recently, in making a substantial contribution to the Red Cross campaign for war relief funds in the name of the Church, the First Presidency stated, "We are happy to make this contribution for alleviating, so far as may be, the suffering of those who have been forced to flee for their lives from devastated areas with the loss not only of all they possess, but of home, friends and kindred. We particularly urge the members of the Church to give to the fullest extent of their ability for this purpose." Social Service Lesson Titles 1940-41 Following are the titles of the lessons to be presented in the Social Service department for the year 1940-41. Inasmuch as Christmas occurs during the fourth week in December, no Social Service lesson is planned for this month. 1. The Influence of Religion in the Home 2. Do Our Neighbors Like Us? 3. Long-Time Vision of Family Life 4. Am I a Housekeeper or a Homemaker? 5. Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day 6. Aesthetic Values in Family Living 7. Home Owning or Home Renting? Cathedral of Peace Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER NINE The winter came on, and in its inevitable way brought changes and developments. At the beginning, the loss of cattle that had begun in Turner's pasture spread. The Elkhorn lost four, and the three ranches on South Fork suffered losses. Turner was the only one who lost anything but calves. The winter was comparatively open, and cars could still be used. There were suspicions, voiced and unvoiced. Bob made several trips to the Cross Line. Once Carolyn went but returned alone. When they knew certainly that Carson was not going to relent and go to school, Bob also gave up the idea. He enrolled for extension courses in animal husbandry. It became easy to talk to his father about it, for Turner reached out to Bob for companionship. He offered the money. While Bob would never have admitted it, his decision to not press the matter of going away was influenced by another happening. On the Relief Society's first Work Day, he had driven to the ward house to bring his mother home. To his surprise, Mrs. Straughn came out and asked if she might ride home with them. Hiding his eagerness, he said: "I'd be delighted." He got out and opened the door for her, while she went for her things. "The men were busy today," she explained, as they started away, "and June took my car to town on an errand for her father. She brought me over, but I told her I thought I could ride home with you." "You will miss her dreadfully when she goes to school," Carolyn sympathized, thinking of the many ways a grown girl can help. "She isn't going," Mrs. Straughn answered. "I feel dreadful about it, but I must have help. A winter at home will help both of us though, especially if she decides to get married." "Oh!" Carolyn expelled the word in sudden alarm, "Is she getting married?" "We don't know. She has been going with a young man for a long time. He graduated last spring and has a good position; so there is no reason for their not getting married, if she is in love with him. But she doesn't say." Bob stepped on the gas. The flame of the shrubs on the hillside was no brighter than the one that lighted his heart. The tang of the fall air was instantly more heady. She was going to be here all winter! By spring, who could tell? Since that long night when Carolyn had lain listening, listening lest Turner walk out of the house and out of her life forever, she had changed many of her ideas. She knew now that she had expected the impossible. She had expected a love to survive when its every expression was denied. She had expected Turner, with all his expanding power, CATHEDRAL OF PEACE to cling to the level upon which she had chosen to live. That he was ripe for some other woman to snatch she also knew, and she grew cold with fear at the knowledge. The night that Carson had left she had found that Turner could not be coaxed suddenly into a state of companionship. She first must have something to contribute that would invite companionship. She would have to build up little by little that which she had so callously let die. The realization had come to her that night that clothes do not make the inner woman; they are merely an expression of her, her approach to friendship and social intercourse. She was thankful now that she had accepted responsibility in the Relief Society. It was a wedge with which to open a new life. It was a ladder up which she could climb to a new self-esteem. Kane had said she was stubborn. She was, and now she was using that quality to remedy conditions. It was surprising how many avenues opened to help her. The little progress she made with Turner, however, was heartbreaking. There were times when the bother, the struggle and heartbreak were almost too great a price to pay. Turner resisted every advance coldly, often rudely; but she refused to quit. She did not go to the grove any more, although its cold, stark, winter beauty had always fascinated her. She knew nothing of psychology, but she sensed that keeping away from the old situation would be the first step in creating a new one. She joined the Parent-Teacher Association, and to her surprise found that she was really interested. She studied 473 her Relief Society lessons avidly, the more so because they were hard for her?extremely hard at first. She not only had to learn, but she had to train herself to study. Turner had always studied. He was constantly being asked to give service which required study. This fact helped her when otherwise she would have become discouraged and given up. She had never been a scholar as he was, and the little inclination she had had originally was long since dead of inactivity. It was hard to bring it back to life. But step by step she restored it, until her desire to learn became strong. Talking of doing better, or promising, would have had no weight with Turner. One evening when Dennis was preparing a lesson in English Literature, he asked Bob for help. Bob was busy. Turner took no notice, so Carolyn hesitantly offered. Once she would have shied from offering. Now, to her own surprise as well as his, she was able to help clear his problem. When she arose from the table, she noticed Turner watching her intently. He quickly averted his gaze. The Relief Society Magazine she read from cover to cover. The magazines she had read on rare occasions had interested her very little. The people in them were too far removed from her; they were like creatures from another life. In this little magazine she met her own, and in meeting them found courage. She studied the lessons each week but would never volunteer to take part in the discussion. Once, quite by accident, she was called on. Her answer was slow, faltering, but worth listening to. After 474 that she was often asked to express an opinion. It was not surprising, then, that in January she was asked to give the lesson on emotions. "Oh, I couldn't," was her first startled reaction. "I am sure you can," the far-sighted Mrs. Straughn answered. "Anyone as eager to learn as you are can do anything." "But how would I give it?" "If you feel you need help, why not ask your husband? The Priesthood members think he is a wonderful teacher; and he keeps up so well, that he will know a great deal about the subject." So it came about a few nights later when work was finished, Carolyn put her books on the table where Turner was working on his accounts. "Turner." Some quality in her voice made him raise his head quickly. He looked questioningly from her to the books and back again. "Well?" He did not make the approach easy for her. "I have been asked to give a lesson, and I do not know how." "Well?" he asked again. "Will you help me?" "Why not Bob? I am busy." But there was none of his hard, cutting sarcasm. "I would rather you would." With a great show of deliberation he reached for her magazine. She handed it to him. Sitting at the table beside him, she explained about the time to be used and the usual procedure. "Let me read it over," he suggested, "then we can discuss it." Flushed and pleased, she raised her head and met Bob's eyes. They RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 were puzzled, but while he looked at her a light leaped into his own. When she went to the kitchen to set bread, he followed. "Atta girl, Mother," he said, putting an arm over her shoulder. "You will win." "I didn't think you had noticed. Does it mean anything to you?" A white line came about his mouth. "It means just about everything to me. How could I help but notice?" "Have I been so different?" "You feel different. That puts new spirit into all of us ? even Dad, though he won't acknowledge it." "Do you suppose he realizes what I am trying to do? He doesn't seem to." "He would take good care that you shouldn't find it out if he did, but he will break down in time." He turned toward the outside. She noticed the droop of his shoulders. "Robert." "Yes." He turned, with one hand on the door knob. "I am not as strong nor as capable as you." His brow wrinkled, then his mouth twisted in a wry smile. "She refuses to go with me, Mother." "So does Dad. She does that because of the dance. Have you persisted?" "No. I haven't the heart. If I just knew it wasn't the other fellow! I did a shabby trick that night." "Yes. After paying special attention to her and giving every indication of special interest, you turned and asked Lucile for the dance. June's pride was hurt." He thought, "She even went on that ride with me, and still I ignored CATHEDRAL OF PEACE it." For a moment longer he considered, then his head went up. "I can fight, now. I feel as if I had some reason for it." Back in the dining room, Turner motioned to her. "Sit down," he said, "and we will go over your material." She took a chair near him. He seemed reluctant to start. At length he spoke. "I suppose you realize this lesson covers personal ground." She nodded. "You still want me to help?" Again she nodded. "Then we will do our best. Tell me, what particular thing do you want to stress? That is, what shall you use as an objective?" "I don't know." He began showing her. He was a fluent and persuasive speaker. Carolyn forgot his words in listening to the inflections of his voice, in watching the muscles of his mouth. She felt her spirit flow out to meet his. "Do you see now?" "Huh? Oh, I beg your pardon. I wasn't listening." "I thought so." "Yes, I was," she said softly, "but to something out of the past. Forgive me. I shall really listen." For a moment he did not speak. She saw his knuckles whiten. With an effort he began. His thoughts were clear and concise. At once the thing began to take shape in her mind. "If you two are going to talk all evening, how am I to study?" Dennis complained. "Go into the living room," his father answered quickly. There was no annoyance in the words. In 475 pointing to a certain sentence, his finger shook. Immediately he stood. "Read your material over again with that thought in mind. Make a note of everything that bears on it. Another time I will help you organize it." He left then, ostensibly to look over things before going to bed. Instead of reading, Carolyn simply sat, and felt. Already the material had opened her eyes to a world of past mistakes and future possibilities. She saw the tremble of Turner's hand. Some day he would relent; and when he did, she would hold fast to that which was good. In the meantime, Bob, buttoning a heavy jacket about him, had gone out into the crackling cold night. He knew now what he was going to do. He had been alone a great deal this winter, and he was hungry for companionship. Perhaps Mother was right about June. Was she angry; or, a cold chill went down his spine, had she found it was the other man? Joe Colts, he knew, was just someone to go places with. He did not count. Snow lay over everything, but it was not deep. The roads were all open. Getting his skis, he threw them over his shoulder and struck east toward the Elkhorn. As he neared the ranch buildings, he caught sight of figures against the white of Bald Mountain. The crowd was up there skiing. He was soon at the foot of the slope. Disdaining the easy way, he started up. At the top, he was greeted with shouts and reproaches. "Hi there, hermit," Joe called. "It is time you were coming to earth," Lucile added tartly. 476 "Why didn't you bring Carson?" another asked. Bob was stooping. He raised his head quickly. "Carson?" he asked. He disliked talking about his brother. "I thought Tim said he talked to him this afternoon." "I did," Tim told him, "but it was this evening, not this afternoon. He was very likely on his way home." June was poised for the descent. "Come on," Joe called, and was gone. But she hung back. The crowd that had resented her at first now acknowledged her as its leader. She had not accomplished this, Bob admitted, by staying home. She would always make herself a part of things. She would want someone who would do the same. For one brief moment he doubted, then the thought of his mother brought reassurance. He could do whatever he wanted to do. "Hello, Bob," June called gaily, but with no intimacy. "Wait a moment." He was struggling with his skis. "Come on, Ju-une," Joe called from below. In her bright plaid jacket and fur hood the girl made a sharp contrast to those who were dressed in haphazard costumes. To her credit, none seemed to notice. Cupping her hands, she called, "Wait a minute." Crowding her to one side, Joe's sister and Ben Dunn swept down the trail. The slope was not too high, the snow not too good, but they were enjoying every minute of the evening. As Bob stood up after fastening his skis, he noticed a cloud bank in the west. The weather had moderated slightly, too, or his climb up had warmed him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 "Ready?" she asked. "Ready." Away they went, the cold air stinging their faces and whipping the blood through their veins. As they reached the foot of the hill, they circled in opposite directions and came back facing each other. Their skis struck, and June was thrown slightly off balance. Joe rushed to catch her, but there was no need. With one movement of his long arm, Bob had caught and steadied her. "Thanks," she laughed, shaking the wind from her face. "Want to go up again?" he asked quietly. "We are all going up again." Joe reached for her hand. "I am taking her up." A half dozen more of the group were down and were laughing and rushing about. When they began the ascent, Joe went with them. He was not deceived. He knew he was only a friend. He did not like it, but there was nothing he could do about it. "What has that guy got that the rest of us haven't?" he muttered to himself, but was honest enough to admit he had something. "Hi, Lucile," he called, "wait for me." After they had rested long enough for the others to get a good start, Bob shouldered his own and June's skis. "Shall we start?" She looked up the slope. "I couldn't go up the way you did." "We will go around. The long way is the best for us tonight." June's pulse quickened. Affecting indifference, she asked, "How did you happen to come tonight? We CATHEDRAL OF PEACE have tried all winter to get you out." "You know why I haven't been out." "You mean you were sulking because I turned you down?" It was rude, but she couldn't help saying it. He had such a sense of his own importance, and yet at times he had none at all. "No, there just wasn't any reason why I should go." "Then why bother to come tonight?" she asked tartly. "It wasn't a bother. I decided." "Decided to come? It is time. I dislike men who are too busy to live." "That wasn't what I decided." She was suddenly impatient to go. "Let's catch the others." "No." He caught her back as she would have hurried after the others. They walked in silence?a comfortable silence for Bob. Just to be with her gave him that feeling. There was no need for words. June was not sure she liked the silence. She wished Bob had not come tonight, just when she had made up her mind to invite Ray up for the spring vacation. It was not, she told herself, that she particularly liked Bob. He had deliberately stepped between her and Joe. The moment he came around, he assumed authority. He gave her a glimpse of things no other boy had ever done; yet, she did not like him ?she certainly did not. He would leave her abruptly if he chose, as if she were of no moment. He couldn't do that to her! Bob shifted his skis. The silence was no longer comfortable. "I am thinking of going up to see Carson tomorrow," he said. "It will 477 be a grand sleigh ride if it doesn't snow too much. Could you be ready by ten?" "Why?" "To go with me, of course." "No," she said shortly, "I couldn't, because I am not going." "Not going?" he echoed in astonishment. "What do you mean?" Her courage ebbed. He was such a lovable combination of fear and courage. But she must not weaken. "That is what I mean." "Why?" "Because," she spoke very slowly so that her voice would not tremble, "I am marrying another man." There, If he were going to be afraid, he had a prop to lean on. "Listen, you." He dropped the skis and whirled her about to face him. They were high on the slope, and the world in her robes of white was their footstool. "Don't you dare say that again." His arms suddenly enveloped her, and she was close against him. "June!" Then the beauty, the wonder of the word overwhelmed her. "June," he whispered. His lips moved toward hers. "Yes?" But over her head, he had caught a glimpse of something. He tensed. Something black was moving over the white expanse down near the river. He watched. It moved again. "What is it?" she asked. "Did you see something?" "I'm not sure, but I have to leave ?now." He looked up at the slope above. "Sorry. Call Joe." Then he was gone, and she was left alone, undecided whether to laugh or cry. (To be continued) Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. Special Activities Sponsored by Stake Relief Societies North Weber Stake (Ogden, Utah) The work-and-business department of the North Weber Stake sponsored a twelve-week course in sewing in 1939, with the laudable objectives of training homemakers and aiding the Church welfare program by providing gainful occupation for women needing work. The sewing school was held at the Ogden regional storehouse and attended regularly by representatives from all the fourteen wards of the stake. At the conclusion of the course, these representatives gave the instruction to Relief Society members in their respective wards. Here expert instruction was given in sewing for family needs. The simplest stitches were studied first, followed later by a course in dressmaking and tailored finishes. Remaking of children's clothing was one of the specialties of this school. Neat in appearance and reflecting the latest trends in style, these articles ranged from tiny undies to fine coats and suits to delight their little INSTRUCTORS AT SEWING PROJECT, NORTH WEBER STAKE Left to right, Loretta Wright, Mary Wright, Jessie Snarr FLOWER EXHIBIT, SALINA FIRST WARD, NORTH SEVIER STAKE wearers. Instructors at the sewing project are shown in the accompanying picture which was taken at a stake bazaar and handiwork exhibit held in May, 1939. On this occasion, a sale of home-baked foods and articles of sewing netted the association more than $100. Julia E. Parry, who was president of North Weber Stake Relief Society at the time of this exhibit and bazaar, later resigned, and Nellie W. Neal was appointed president on September 30, 1939. North Sevier Stake (Salina, Utah) The Relief Society of North Sevier Stake, of which Melissa M. Crane is president, sponsors an annual flower festival which has proved to be one of its most interesting activities. Not only do the women of the various wards in the stake strive to beautify their homes and gardens with lovely flowers during the summer months, but through careful selection and a study of plant life, they try to cultivate plants of a superior type, and to add new varieties. Artistic arrangement is also one of their objectives. In 1939, the flower festival was held in each ward in connection with the annual ward Relief Society conference?a combination which added interest to both activities. The flowers were brought to the ward chapel on the morning of the conference Sunday, where they were arranged by the women, and remained on display throughout the day. The accompanying picture is of the 1939 display of the Salina First Ward. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyo.) As early as February, 1940, Lucille Call, secretary, wrote that the 480 Star Valley Stake Relief Society is sponsoring a beautification program, with President Arvilla J. Hyer as chairman. All the civic and governmental organizations and church groups are cooperating in this enterprise. A survey was made in each ward early in the year, with ward welfare groups and Relief Society participating in the survey. In the fall of 1940, a follow-up survey will be made and a prize awarded to the ward making the greatest progress. The work directors in each ward are on the ward beautification committee, which has the two-fold purpose of providing work for those in need, and improving the appearance of the homes and churches. The aim of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 this stake is, "A more beautiful Star Valley for 1940." Los Angeles Stake (California) The Los Angeles Stake Relief Society presented a spring fashion show and musicale on the afternoon of February 19, 1940. The large audience which attended acclaimed it as an exceptionally fine entertainment. The fashion show was elaborate and comprehensive, revealing the latest trends in the realm of fashion, as well as the fashions of yester-year. Refreshments were served and a delightful musicale was presented. Mary S. Jordan is president of this stake Relief Society. HOME OF PIONEERS Lydia Hall It is so small, so very small, This home of pioneers, That stood so long against the storms And temperament of years. It is so rude no one would guess That it is paved with dreams, That love and life and death have walked Beneath its sagging beams; That it has cradled great ideals, That time has hallowed it, That in its lowly rooms the lamp Of liberty was lit. Theology and Testimony DEPARTMENT The Restored Gospel Dispensation ?Introduction (Tuesday, October 8) The Christian Church at the Close of the First Century. At the close of the first century of the Christian era, the organization, teachings and ceremonial practices of the Christian Church were essentially as they had been instituted by the original apostles. Christianity had severed its ties with Judaism and had become a populous religious movement in the Roman Empire. Lacking official church historians, no detailed records or contemporary histories were preserved. However, from the writings of the period, both religious and profane, we are able to learn some things concerning the church. The apostles had ceased to function in the leadership of the church, and the right of general church leadership was not vested in any one city or individual. Local lay members?bishops, elders, deacons, etc.?were directing the religious and temporal life of their congregations. Clement and Ignatius, two of the earliest "Apostolic Fathers," writing in this period, indicate that the doctrines of common consent ruled the church, and that all church leaders, after being selected by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, were presented to their congregations for a sustaining vote. The congregation also exercised the right to remove unworthy officials from ecclesiastical positions. All lay members of the church were eligible to bear the priesthood. The church was an illicit religion, and its services were unostentatious, consisting of prayers, the singing of psalms and hymns, exhortations, the reading of Scripture, the administration of the sacrament, and the making of offerings for the needy poor. At this period the church had adopted the Old Testament as its own but had not yet elevated our New Testament to a position of Scripture, although practically all of our present-day New Testament books were known, read and quoted by church people. Christianity was still a spirit-guided movement, lacking formal creeds and declarations of faith. Competitors of Christianity. Christianity was a missionary religion; and in its proselyting activities in the Graeco-Roman world, it found itself in competition with numerous pagan religions and Greek philosophical systems. Through elaborate initiatory rites, consisting of pageantry, pilgrimages, fastings, banquets, sacrificial meals and secret instructions, people were inducted into the mysteries that they believed would gain immortality for them. With the passing of the centuries, Christianity triumphed over 482 all of its pagan contemporaries, but not, however, until it had adopted from these cults their ritual, ceremonial dress, superstitions and adornments, as well as many of their doctrines, and thus had become an apostate church, highly impregnated with paganism. Defenders of the Apostolic Faith. During these trying years when the simplicity of the pristine Gospel was being threatened with change, there arose many valiant Christians who protested against the innovations. Foremost among these "Fathers" were Irenaeus (120- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 200 A. D.), Bishop of Lyons, and Tertullian (160-230 A. D.), Bishop of Carthage. They insisted that only those doctrines and practices capable of being proved to have been taught or sanctioned by the apostles of the Lord, could and should be recognized as valid and divine. All else was to have no place in Christianity. But in spite of the warnings of some of these clear-visioned Christians that the changing practices and teachings were taking the church toward apostasy, there was no turning back to the original forms of apostolic times. Lesson 1 Apostasy and Reformation The Days of Darkness and Preparation "Preach the word.... For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables (II Timothy 4:2-4). The Status of the Christian Church in the Roman Empire. During the first two centuries, the Christian Church existed in the Roman Empire as an illicit religion, subjected to repeated waves of persecution. In 311 A. D. The Emperor Galerius, who had been one of the most vigorous persecutors of Christianity, issued an edict of toleration for the followers of Christ, believing their prayers might aid his unstable empire. Under Constantine, the sincerity of whose conversion is questionable, Christianity was given state aid and favored above other religions. It was not, however, until 392 that Theodosius decreed that Christianity was the religion of the Roman Empire and ordered all other religions abolished. Under state patronage the church grew into a powerful institution, its leaders often being honored with positions in the government. The disintegration of the Empire in the fourth and fifth centuries resulted in disorder in the social, economic and political life of Western Europe. The church, with its accumulated wealth and control over the populace, was the only force in society able to step to the front and maintain a semblance of order. The result was that with the passing of the centuries the temporal power of the church increased and in time came to control not only the religious life of Western Europe but also the political rulers of the various western Christian nations as well. LESSON DEPARTMENT Marks of the Apostasy. 1. The Change in Gospel Ordinances. The primacy of faith and repentance in the Gospel were set aside through the institution of infant baptism, and the form of the ordinance was changed to sprinkling or pouring. Hands were no longer laid upon the heads of the baptized candidates to confer the Holy Ghost. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, under the influence of pagan religious practices, ceased to be a memorial ceremony and was changed into a mystical sacrifice. 2. Changes in Worship Forms and Religious Practices. In an attempt to make the plain Christian service attractive to outsiders, the church had gradually adopted many of the practices of her pagan contemporaries that were appealing to the eye, ear, and mind of the superstitious masses. The following is a partial list of these adoptions: statuary and its accompanying adoration; an altar as a sanctuary within the church; the ceremonial burning of candles; the praying to a number of special "saints" for intercession with the Godhead or for particular favors; special ceremonial robes for the priests; pilgrimages to shrines; veneration of sacred relics; ascetic practices of persecuting the body for the welfare of the spirit; the compulsory collection of tithes; and the adoption of the birthday of the pagan God, Mithras, (December 25) as the natal day of Christ, and its conversion into Christmas. 3. Doctrinal Innovations. Under the influence of pagan philosophy, the Christians denied the individual existence of three beings in the Godhead, explaining the three as being different manifestations of one 483 God. The elevation of Mary to a position of divinity, through whom prayers to the Son should be addressed, was obviously unknown in apostolic days. Marriage and family life became secondary considerations, as celibacy and monasticism were viewed as the ideal forms for Christian living. The doctrines of original sin and predestination denied the free agency with which the apostolic missionaries had taught that all mortals were endowed. 4. Loss of Spiritual Gifts. The church frankly admitted that revelation had ceased with the passing of the apostolic age. General church councils, which decided matters of doctrine by majority vote?the voters often being coerced or bribed?boldly changed Gospel teachings. Prophecy and inspired leadership were no longer present. 5. Church Government and Leadership. The democratic spirit of the primitive church, with its universal priesthood, was replaced by a self-perpetuating professional hierarchy, not responsible to the church membership over which it presided. As classical culture declined, men who formerly made their living as rhetoricians and philosophers were attracted to Christianity for the livelihood it offered. Their paganizing influence on the doctrines and practices of the church was immeasurable. As an afterthought, in the fifth century, the idea was promulgated that the Bishop of Rome was the vicar of Christ and the universal head of the Christian Church. Results of the Days of Spiritual Darkness. In the Roman Empire, Christianity gradually became a religion in which to believe, rather 484 than a group of spiritual principles by which to live. It became intolerant, using the force of arms to achieve its ends where necessary. Heretics were vigorously persecuted, and the religious freedom which had made possible the founding of the church in the days of Peter and Paul no longer existed. Christianity had become a composite of Christian and pagan principles, ideas and practices, rather than a preservation of the primitive Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every vestige of divine power had been lost by the so-called Christian Church before the Medieval period. Pre-Reformation Discontent with the Medieval Catholic Church. Although the Roman Catholic Church was the sole religion in Western Europe for about ten centuries, there had never been a century pass without priests or laymen criticizing the church's worldliness, moral corruption, or doctrinal innovations. Peter Waldo, Marsilius of Padua, John Wycliffe and John Huss are outstanding among these early reformers. Martin Luther and the Reformation Movement. In his thirty-fourth year (1517), Dr. Luther, who was professor of theology in the Catholic university of Wittenberg, commenced his attempt to reform the evils of the mother church. Luther set up three standards for judging what needed to be corrected: First, those practices which the Bible specifically condemned; second, that which was contrary to human reason; third, that which conflicted with human conscience. It is interesting to note that Luther and the other reformers failed to sense the need of revelation or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 inspiration in their work and made no pretext at having received divine commissions for their attempts. Luther's Reforms. Using this three-fold criteria, the courageous reformer attacked certain abuses in the church. On the positive side of the church reformation, Luther insisted that love, rather than fear, should be the motive for serving God. He attempted to return to the primitive church principle through instituting the practice of common consent in church government and gave the congregation an opportunity of ratifying ecclesiastical appointments by a vocal "Amen." Sensing the need of having the congregation participate in the church service, he instituted congregational singing and wrote a number of hymns to supply the need. The emancipation of women has had its greatest impetus since the Reformation, and it is certain that Luther's encouragement of marriage and his willingness to allow divorce for intolerable conditions are mileposts in this process. Well has McGiffert written: "... He performed an incalculable service in dignifying married life and ascribing to it a sacredness above the career of monk or nun. Instead of a temptation to a less perfect way of living, as woman was too commonly represented by the religious teachers of the Middle Ages, he saw in her one ordained of God to be a companion.... Luther's greatest service to the modern world lay in his recognition of the normal human relationships as the true sphere for the development of the highest religious, as of the highest moral, charac- LESSON DEPARTMENT ter" (Martin Luther, the Man and His Work, page 288). The Reformation in Other Lands. From Germany, Lutherism spread into the Scandinavian and Baltic regions, where it has remained the dominant religious force to this day. In the study of the Reformation, so much has been written concerning Luther that it has tended to obscure the parallel work in other lands. Of equal importance are the movements in Switzerland, the Netherlands, France, and Great Britain. While Luther was commencing his reforms, Ulrich Zwingli at Zurich was making a similar movement in Swiss Catholicism. Following his death, this work continued in the French portion of the mountain republic, with headquarters at Geneva, led and dominated by John Calvin, a Frenchman. From Geneva, the Calvinistic doctrines spread into Scotland, England, France, and the Netherlands, creating in time the Presbyterian, Congregational, Huguenot and Dutch Reformed churches. Results of the Reformation. From the standpoint of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Reformation contributed little toward restoring religious truths. Its greatest contributions were the popularization of Holy Scripture, the breaking of the intolerant domination of religious thought and practice which had characterized the medieval church, and the stress placed upon the worth of the individual soul. In America, religious tolerance flowered into complete religious liberty following the Revolutionary War. 485 Without this boon of religious freedom, restoration of the Gospel would have been impossible. In no other land could the Restoration have taken place and the church survived. Without the preparatory work of the Reformation, there would have been no Restoration; and without the restoration of the Gospel through divine revelation, the world would have continued in absolute spiritual darkness. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What was the nature of the outward organization of the Christian Church at the beginning of the second century? 2. What factors forced the Christian Church to embark on a program of temporal and political dominance in the early centuries of its existence? 3. Summarize the outstanding changes in church doctrines and practices that occurred in the first fourteen years of Christianity. 4. To what extent do you see the hand of God in the Reformation? 5. What was the importance of the Bible to the Reformation? 6. Summarize the results of the Reformation. 7. In what sense was the Reformation a day of preparation for the restoration of the Gospel in the nineteenth century? Topics for Special Reports and Further Study 1. What is meant by "Apostolic Fathers" and "Fathers" in early Christian history? 2. Read II Peter 2:1 and 2; II Timothy 3:2-4-5. 3. Read and summarize the contentions presented in Luther's 95 theses. 4. Give a report of the work of John Wycliffe in popularizing the Bible; of Peter Waldo of Lyons and the Waldensian movement. 5. Summarize the shortcomings of the Reformation. (See Roberts' The Falling Away, pp. 157-170.) 486 References James L. Barker, "Protestors of Christendom," in Improvement Era, Vol. 41 (1938), articles I to IX, commencing on page 10 of the January, 1938, issue; Vol. 42 (1939), articles X to XVIII. Chas. Beard, Martin Luther and the Rise of The Reformation in Germany. J. T. McNeill, Makers of Christianity, pp. 136-210. Contains short biographical interpretations of the pre-reformation leaders as well as the outstanding reformers. B. H. Roberts, The Falling Away, pp. 13-128; 145-170. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 J. H. Robinson, Readings in European History, Vol. II. Contains reprints of documents, letters, publications, etc., from the Reformation period. J. E. Talmage, The Great Apostasy, pp. 39-129; 152-162. History of the Church (Period I, Joseph Smith), Vol. I, pp. XL to XCIV of "Introduction." Encyclopedia Britannica or Americana. Good for topical and special reports. Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 25 (1938), July issue, pp. 484-488; August issue, pp. 556-559. Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood In the Home No. I Definitions of Priesthood (Tuesday, October 8) "I am tenacious that all should learn the right and power of the Priesthood, and recognize it; and if they do it, they will not go far astray" (Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, p. 181). When we switch on a light in our home, we marvel at the men who discovered and controlled the great physical power of electricity and used it for the benefit of mankind. What a blessing it is to us! The Latter-day Saint home, however, possesses a far greater blessing and power, which is spiritual and everlasting in its nature; this is the Priesthood. As President Smith suggested, we can appreciate this blessing more fully if we understand what Priesthood is and what power it gives to men who hold it. In defining Priesthood, he said: "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God" (Gospel Doctrine, page 173). President Lorenzo Snow said on the same subject: "The Priesthood, or authority in which we stand, is the medium or channel through which our Heavenly Father has purposed LESSON DEPARTMENT to communicate light, intelligence, gifts, powers and spiritual and temporal salvation unto the present generation. "The Priesthood is the governing authority of the Church. "All offices in the Church derive their power, their virtue, their au- 487 thority from the Priesthood." Home Discussion Helps Priesthood was restored for the welfare and blessing of mankind. Its law is the law of love. (See Gospel Doctrine, p. 178.) It is sacred and should be regarded so by women. Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 1 Skin, Hair, and Nails (Tuesday, October 15) I. Structure and Function A. Skin 1. Epidermis and dermis 2. Removes body poisons; puts one in contact with outside world, as within the skin are nerve endings B. Hair 1. Specialized cells growing from hair follicles embedded in the inner skin 2. A covering for the head and an outstanding factor in personal appearance C. Nails 1. Scale forming projections or papillae that lie in parallel rows and are fused together. 2. Protect toes and sensitive finger tips (Note: Any physiology book will have information and illustrations on skin, hair, and nails.) II. Relationship of Diet A. Healthy skin, hair, and nails the result of proper diet 1. Sign-posts of health. a. Skin?soft and pliable b. Hair?glossy and lustrous c. Nails ? smooth, delicate pink in color 2. Cosmetics cannot hide ill health 3. Blood nourishes the skin cells a. Must be supplied with proper food materials B. Necessary Foods 1. General health-diet first requisite a. Daily food supply (Review Lesson I of 1939 course. Let class participate in review. ) 2. Vitamin A necessary to healthy skin a. Prevents pimples and acne b. Found in carrots, green vegetables, butter, and fish oils 3. Calcium, phosphorus, vitamin D a. Prevents nails from becoming too brittle b. Sources (1) Milk ? best calcium food (2) Eggs and whole grains ? good phosphorus foods (3) Cod liver oil and other fish liver oil concentrates are the 488 only good sources of vitamin D III. Good Grooming ? A Supplement to Proper Diet* A. Skin 1. Needs exercise a. Running, lively games, massage, shower baths, brisk rub-downs 2. Needs sunlight a. Rays of sun provide body with vitamin D 3. Cleanliness a. No substitute for mild, alkali-free soap and water b. Determine soaps to use. c. Cold cream good for lubricating dry skin, but cleansing properties of doubtful value 4. Cosmetics a. Should be used sparingly and wisely b. Today, one is conspicuous if none is used c. Learn of simple aids to skin care through intelligent study B. Hair 1. Brushing a. Removes dust and dirt b. Stimulates circulation 2. Shampooing a. Removes oil and airs scalp b. Soaps (1) Mild, alkali-free soap best?make at home by cutting up mild toilet soap and dissolving in water c. Drying?best method with towel by hand in sunlight C. Nails?Hands 1. Cleanliness a. Use plenty of soap and nail brush 2. Care of cuticle a. Keep soft. Nightly application of lanolin or castor oil *(Note: This section of outline can be used with I and II, if time permits. Could form the basis of several fine lessons. ) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 b. Keep pushed back away from nail?do not cut 3. Manicuring a. Keep sensibly trimmed b. Emery board better than metal file c. Consider age, occasion and individuality when using nail polish 4. Hand lotions a. Consider extravagant advertisements b. For economical preparations make own lotion or have druggist compound them MENUS FOR AN ADEQUATE FOOD SUPPLY FOR ONE DAY BREAKFAST Tomato Juice Cracked Wheat Cereal?Toast and Butter Scrambled Egg with Green Pepper Milk LUNCH or SUPPER Cream of Pea Soup Toasted Cheese Sandwich Apple Salad Milk for Children DINNER Baked Potatoes Liver Baked in Sour Cream Carrots in Parsley Butter Whole Wheat Bread?Butter?Milk Caramel Custard?Oatmeal Cookies Suggestion: Analyze this menu relative to specific food elements in different foods suggested; for example: Tomato Juice, Vitamin C Cracked Wheat Cereal, Vitamin B, Minerals Toast, Carbohydrates Butter, Vitamin A, Fat (Note: Making collections of magazine advertisements and studying their claims would be informative and enlightening if leader is in possession of material to refute claims made by manufacturers. ) LESSON DEPARTMENT References: Human Nutrition. Reprint from Part I, U. S. Department of Agriculture Yearbook, 1939, U. S. Department of Documents, Wash., D. C., 40c. (A 444 page publication containing 20 chapters written by recognized authorities in the field of nutrition. This publication supplies complete and accurate nutrition information and is not too technical for the general public to understand. It contains much material that will supplement the brief outlines in the Magazine. Each chapter deals with specific nutrition problems. In some stakes and wards where considerable work has been done with nutrition lessons during the past two years, there may be an overlapping in this year's outlines. In that case, this book would supply much new subject matter, around which very helpful discussions could be built; for example, "From Traditions to 489 Science," "Can Food Habits Be Changed?", "Food Facts, Fads, and Fancies.") Diets to Fit the Family Income, Bulletin No. 1757, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. The Day's Food Supply, N. S. Go, U. S. A. C. Extension Service, Logan, Utah. (This bulletin available to residents of Utah. Similar publications may be had from other state extension service officers.) Consumer's Research, Inc., Washington, New Jersey. Write for list of free materials, pamphlets and other publications on cosmetics. Parent's Magazine, February, 1939, (contains a good article on care of children's hair and nails). Write for any publications on cosmetics to Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Literature The Modern Novel ?Introduction (Tuesday, October 22) Why do millions of people spend millions of hours every year reading novels? There are many answers to the question. Some read "to keep from thinking." In troubled times like our own perhaps even that is reason enough. If one has only worries and forebodings to think about and if a novel will give romantic escape from reality for a time, it is doing a real service. Others read for entertainment or amusement. Some, no doubt, read in order to be "up" on the best sellers, so they may discuss books superiorly with their friends. But we have been studying the novel the past two years and will continue it this year for more significant reasons than any of these. We may, for instance, gain from novels a broadened view of life as we share the intellectual, emotional, and spiritual experiences of writers whose literary gifts enable them to see more deeply into life and to understand more truly than we do, and to record what they see and feel beautifully and impressively. Thus, our narrower horizons are widened, our appreciations deepened. Most of us are very limited in opportunities for travel, to associate with great personalities. But through books we may go not only to far away countries but to past ages and share vicariously the work, the play, the dreams, the defeats and triumphs of the people in the novelist's world of illusion, learning thereby that the 490 fundamental human emotions and ideals are the same in all countries and all ages. We come to realize RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 more fully the meaning of the "brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God." Lesson I Adam Bede Lesson Topics 1. George Eliot 2. Adam Bede?the plot 3. Values to be gained from this novel 4. Lesson helps Doubtless, many of you have previously read Adam Bede. But good literature, like good music, can be enjoyed many times. Besides the mere pleasure one gets from the story of a good novel?the excitement of meeting new people and sharing their adventures and struggles?there are other values, and these are more easily recognized on a second or third reading of a worthwhile book. Great masterpieces have intellectual, emotional, and ethical values in the subject matter and an independent value in the style. To make the time we spend in reading profitable, we should be alert to find these values. The chief purpose of this course is to help us do that?to form the habit of asking of whatever we read, "What do you have to give me?" If we can learn to do this and to apply what we gain from reading to our daily lives, then the course will have accomplished its objective. Adam Bede is one of the great English novels. It has something of all the values just mentioned, as it was written by a gifted novelist, one who saw deeply into the human soul and knew how to reveal what she found there. George Eliot George Eliot (this is the pen name chosen by Mary Ann Evans, because in her time woman had not yet found her place in the professional world ) is one of the greatest novelists of the 19th century. She has often been compared to Shakespeare. Like him, she saw beneath the surface of people and life. She was the first great psychological novelist in English literature and did much to encourage and influence later writers of her type. Like the dramatist, she takes the crises resulting from a long train of events set in action by something seemingly trivial and reveals the relation of the first slight action to its often tragic result. We see in her novels the conflicts of mind and soul resulting from these previous mistakes and weaknesses. Her dominating theme might be stated thus: All deeds have their eternal consequences. Critics point out that she took "an epoch-making step in internal realism when she dealt psychologically with states of consciousness and feelings, arranging and defining these with scientific precision." This manner of dealing with the invisible life placed her on the highest peak, some scholars believe, ever attained by a psychological novelist. She is known primarily as a novelist, but she wrote poetry as well; and in her poems also "she embodies her doctrine of the act on its inevi- LESSON DEPARTMENT table train of good and evil." Her poem The Choir Invisible is a good illustration. Living in a time of religious controversy, when many people lost their faith in the fundamentals which give the deepest meaning and truest satisfactions to life, she was affected by that atmosphere. She lost her faith in the religion of her youth, even in personal immortality; but she recognized a kind of immortality in the influence of one's living on in lives of persons that he has touched. She says: "O may I join the choir invisible Of those immortal dead Who live again in minds made Better by their presence." George Eliot disregarded one of the greatest institutions of civilization, that of marriage. Perhaps she had a greater justification than most people who do what she did. But she seemed to realize that her act might have an effect upon others, for over and over in her novels she emphasizes the unhappiness, the disintegration that result from such disregard. She wrote several great novels besides Adam Bede. Among the best are Silas Marner, perfect, critics claim, from the point of technique; The Mill on the Floss, significantly autobiographical; and Romola, a novel upon which she worked for years, and for which it is said she read "a library of books" in preparation. Adam Bede?the plot Every story or drama has three essential elements: setting, characters, and plot. Most of them, too, have a theme, a central idea or impression which the author wishes to 491 enforce. The plot, which implies a struggle or conflict, is the means by which the theme is presented. It is the series of events, in the formally constructed novel, leading up to a crisis, or climax, the point where we know the struggle is to be decided in favor of one or the other of the persons or forces opposing each other. It is through the plot that we get our chief emotional value from a novel. Such emotions as love, pity, anger, hate are played upon as we share the experiences of the characters. We become one with them, and our lives are enriched by these vicarious experiences. In brief, the story of Adam Bede is this: Adam Bede, an honest, highly honorable carpenter, falls in love with Hetty Sorrel, an orphan living with her aunt and uncle who are tenants on the Donnithorne estate. Hetty is a shallow girl, but very pretty. When young Arthur Donnithorne, heir apparent to the estate, comes home on a furlough from the army, she attracts him by her beauty. Encouraged by him, she falls in love with him. They have many secret meetings. After one of these, Adam sees them kissing each other goodby. He knows that Arthur cannot have serious intention of marrying Hetty, because she is beneath him socially. Although Adam and Arthur have been friends since childhood, Adam cannot bear to see the girl he loves made unhappy. He condemns Arthur's actions, and they have a duel. Adam so seriously injures his old friend that for a time he thinks he has killed him. When Arthur recovers, Adam compels him to write to Hetty and tell her that they can never marry. 492 Shortly after this, Donnithorne goes back to the army. But this does not solve the problem his intimacy with Hetty has brought about. Hetty, who has promised to marry Adam, discovers that she is to be a mother. She pretends that she is going to see a friend, Dinah Morris, in a neighboring town. But she goes to try to find Arthur, thinking that when he knows the truth, he will marry her. His regiment has gone to Ireland. Hetty is desperate and cannot decide what to do. Her baby is born in a rooming house. When it is a few days old, Hetty slips away with it to the woods. Here she leaves it, covered with leaves. But she imagines she can hear it cry continually, and at last she goes back, only to find that it has died and has been taken away. Later, she is arrested for child-murder. Adam, who still loves her and feels that she is but a victim of Arthur's selfishness, tries in every way he can to save her. But he can do little. Presently, Arthur returns from the army because of the death of his uncle, who leaves him master of the ancestral estate. When he learns what has happened to Hetty, he does everything in his power to save her. He succeeds only in having her death-sentence changed to deportation. She is sent away and dies a few years later in a foreign land. In his remorse for what he has brought upon her and Adam and others, Arthur goes back to the army for a number of years. Adam, still loving poor Hetty, grieves for her as he continues to care for his mother and brother, Seth, his drunken father having drowned some time before. Later, however, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 he finds happiness in the love of the beautiful Methodist preacher, Dinah Morris, who was Hetty's real friend all through her trouble. Values This is a bare outline of the outstanding events in the story. There are many incidents connected with each of the main characters, some humorous, some dramatic, But the chief incidents have to do with the sin of Hetty and Arthur and the tragic consequences which affected so many lives besides their own. As has been noted, the story is psychological in its implications; that is, the struggles are within the minds and souls of the characters. There are no villains, and no perfect characters. Arthur is not all bad; on the contrary, he is, like the characters in the old Greek dramas, essentially noble but with a weakness which results in tragedy. That weakness brings suffering and shame to himself and others. We should be able to make some use in our lives of the emotional responses we give to this story. The ancient Greeks believed that the pity one felt when he beheld suffering in a play and the fear with which he viewed tragic consequences of mistakes, were saving influences. At least our pity for Hetty, our sympathy for Adam and his brother, Seth, who loves Dinah Morris in vain, our admiration for Dinah?each such emotional response has some bearing upon our attitudes and reactions to situations in actual life as they confront us. We see what makes these people the kind of persons they are. We can understand what they did because we are shown their motives, their environments. Such a study helps us to a better understanding of LESSON DEPARTMENT people around us?even of ourselves. This has been but a brief discussion of a few phases of Adam Bede. The next two lessons will consider the setting and the characters with particular emphasis upon the intellectual and ethical values we should be able to gather from these elements of the novel. Teaching Helps (Assign before the lesson is discussed. ) 1. Give a sketch of the life of George Eliot, emphasizing particularly her literary contributions. 2, Give a list of other novels by George 493 Eliot, indicating briefly the nature of each. 3. Give by narration and reading (after the lesson has been presented) some of the highlights of the story; such as: a. Part of Chapter IV, "Home and Its Sorrows." (Tell the first part of the chapter; then read from the point where the author says, "The coffin was soon propped on the tall shoulders of the two brothers" to the end of the chapter.) b. Chapter XXVII, "The Crisis." (Tell the first part and read from "What do you mean, Adam?" to the end of the chapter. ); c. Chapter XLV, "In the Prison." (Tell the first part and read from "Dinah," Hetty sobbed, "I will tel?I won't hide it any more." to the end of the chapter.) Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Lesson I The Influence of Religion in the Home (Tuesday, October 29) The Cradle of Civilization. The family is the basic unit of society. No nation is greater than its homes, no society stronger than the ties of kinship and common interest that integrate the members of the family. Since the most important period in a person's life is the plastic years of infancy, when the mother has such a great influence on the child, the parents should take advantage of every opportunity which the fireside affords in the important mission of character training. Dr. Henry Van Dyke declared, "If the old-fashioned American family life vanishes, nothing can take its place." Character, like charity, certainly begins at home. The school, the church, and all their agencies of instruction and reform, are inferior to the home as institutions of moral and religious training. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., has said of the strategic position the home occupies as an institution of character development: Again I say, not out of the school, nor the concert hall, nor the theatre, not out of the stadium, nor the movie, nor the radio, not even out of the church itself by itself, nor out of all of them together, shall come the mutual respect for the rights of others, the restraining of will and selfishness, the due obedience to proper authority, the forbearance, the devotion to duty, the poorness of spirit, the repentance for sin, the meekness, the hunger and thirst for righteousness, the mercy, the pureness of heart, the peacemaking, the honesty, the sterling integrity, 494 the charity, the love, the reverence, that shall make the citizenry of free nations and the subjects of the kingdom of heaven. All these must come mostly from the home; they will fully come from nowhere else. To be certain and sure of their effects, they must be engendered in the forefathers of those who would enjoy them.* Professor Marie Leonard, Dean of Women, University of Illinois, has written of this subject: The spiritual interpretation of life, love and God must come from the home and parents where, by every word and deed, Christian principles of honor, integrity, the fine rights of others, the protection that comes from law enforcement, and honorable dealings with all men are indelibly impressed on the growing, impressionable minds of our children.? Parental Responsibility. To Latter-day Saint parents the Lord has said that if they are delinquent in teaching the Gospel to their children the sins of those neglected ones will be "upon the heads of the parents." Parents are partners with God in the merciful mission of bringing salvation and happiness to others. Most Latter-day Saint parents have been workers in some of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, many have been on missions, while almost all of them are in a position to give religious instruction to their children and to conduct family prayer and other devotional activities in the home. Perhaps no other church has such a great percentage of its members who are in a position to render this great service in the home. ?The Deseret News (Church Section), April 15, 1939, "The Home?Fundamental to our Civic and Religious Life." ?The American Citizen, May, 1940, p. 7. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 Since the fathers are away from the family so much of the time, this important duty rests especially with the mothers. They must assume this responsibility and share the golden opportunity which those tender years afford. Participation in religious activities in the home is the most powerful agency in existence for promoting family solidarity. The school, employment, and all other factors tend to separate the members of the family; while religion remains a bulwark of strength in unifying the family in a common cause and in strengthening the bonds of domestic relationship. Where parents are willing to assume the responsibility of religious instruction, they find at their disposal a fortress of strength which is invaluable in the character development of their children. The Church encourages a variety of activities which naturally tend to unite the family. Such activities as family prayer and other devotional exercises in the home, the teaching of respect for authority?both secular and ecclesiastical, fasting, tithing, the Word of Wisdom, the family going as a unit to meetings and other functions of the Church strengthen the family ties and integrate the group as no other force can do. A greater family solidarity is engendered when people marry members of their own church, who, consequently, have the same religious beliefs. The task of rearing children in such a home, where religious unity prevails, is rendered easier than in homes where the parents are divided in religious convictions. There is no place like the fireside for teaching the sanctity of mar- LESSON DEPARTMENT riage and the necessary preparations for that important relationship. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., has given the following advice to parents: This precious spirit of God is here with you, because you willed it so. Your act, not his, brought him to you.... Our Eternal Father will hold every father and mother to a strict accountability for the custody and guardianship of every spirit they bring into the world. The Lord never intended that children should spiritually grow up neglected and cast adrift to care for themselves any more than He intended that the new-born babe should be thrown out into the street to live or die as choice might decree, or to wait until maturity to determine whether he should seek learning or remain in ignorance.* Of the home, as of life, "the kingdom of heaven is within." Such a kingdom in the hearts of their children is worth any parent's labor to obtain. The rearing of children is a task of such magnitude that parents need all the help they can obtain. Religion is the greatest influence they can rely upon. Dr. Rose G. Anderson advises wealthy parents: "Give more of your own time and interest to your children's affairs.... Spend yourself on your children?the dividends in family enjoyment and mental health, in juvenile character and adult integration will be more lasting and valuable than any material riches you can shower upon them."? A similar estimate of the value of religious training in the home and the responsibility of parents in this *The Deseret News (Church Section), April 15, 1939. ?Reader's Digest, February, 1939. 495 important mission was recently given by the White House Conference. From the Conference report, Religion and Children in a Democracy, January, 1940, we quote: Religion has succeeded in maintaining such a balance by placing its emphasis upon the worth of the individual and at the same time upon human fellowship. The primary responsibility for the religious development of the child rests upon the parents. In the family he is first introduced to his religious inheritance as he is introduced to his mother tongue. Here the foundations are laid for the moral standards that are designed to guide his conduct through life. A child's religious development is fostered and strengthened by participation in the life of the family in which religion is a vital concern. Bring Up a Child in the Way He Should Go. During the plastic years of youth, every precaution should be taken to prepare the child for the responsibilities of the future. The home is a sacred altar at which the child is entitled to every safeguard that can be given him. Character building needs all the sanctity that can be given to such a worthy cause; and religion, more than any other agency, is a potent ally which all parents should seek. "If we paid no more attention to our plants," said the plant wizard, Luther Burbank, "than we do to our children, we would be living in a jungle of weeds." Though we consider this assertion an exaggeration, it remains a serious indictment of the American home. Another authority has written of the importance of guidance during the plastic years of youth: "One cannot refuel on flight. When your children are grown and away from you, it's too late to try to train and control 496 them?your time is past. You, as parents, are given the first six or seven uncontested years of your child's life?the most important. After that, the school takes him and builds on the foundation of character which you have laid. After that, his companions take him and build for better or for worse. After that, the world takes him and finishes the product begun by you."? During these uncontested years, when the mother is with her child so much of the time, she has an enviable opportunity to fashion his patterns of conduct and to point out the path she would like him to follow in later life. No period in one's life is more important than these early years when the home plays such a great part in determining his destiny. The Divine Right of Personality. Many popular books have been written in recent years about the value of a well-developed personality. It is generally agreed that personality is too precious a quality not to be developed, and that people with the best personalities come from homes where religious instruction is not neglected. The religious motive and spiritual urge of religion are the most powerful agencies in persuading people to do the things they naturally dislike to do. Personality is not an unchangeable inheritance but is developed by practice. In Dr. Henry C. Link's popular book on this subject he has said, "The greatest and most authentic text book on personality is the Bible.... Other interests besides religion often influence people to sacrifice their immediate pleasures for some more distant goal, but only ?The American Citizen, May, 1940, p. 7. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 religion embodies this principle as the major promise of a normal life in all its aspects."? Religion Holds the Key. If all parents realized what a natural and powerful agency religion is as a factor in character training, there would be a determined effort to make the modern home a place of religious devotion, a laboratory of religious and character development. "The need of the hour," Roger W. Babson recently wrote, "is not more legislation. The need of the hour is more religion." The parents must be alert to the perils of the age and safeguard their children against the disillusionments they must encounter later in life. The youth of the land enter the world of business seeking physical security, yet science seems devoted to the invention of weapons of destruction. They seek social security in a world where the humanists shatter their faith and dethrone their ideals. They seek spiritual security in an atmosphere where the liberals in the realm of religious thought seek to lead them into agnosticism and despair. In Karl Deschweinitz's interesting book, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, he emphasizes the fact that religion is one of the strongest "dynamics" in persuading people to do the things they naturally dislike to do. From this book we quote: Centuries of human experience have given similar testimony to the dynamic qualities of religion. Again and again it is the decisive factor in enabling an individual to ?Henry C. Link, The Return to Religion, New York: Macmillan Co., p. 34. LESSON DEPARTMENT overcome his difficulties.... It is the most vital thing in the life of an individual in whom it exists, the primary source of inspiration and anchorage, the influence that sustains and steadies him in every adjustment that he makes (pages 205, 207). Authorities are agreed that there is no substitute for religion as a factor in character development. Dr. S. Parks Cadman has said that, "there can be no great people without a great religion, and all your talk about character is so much playing down the wind, unless the regenerating and creative forces make a man obedient, and the highest law reigns in his heart!" Dr. Henry C. Link is convinced that in the field of moral instruction there is no substitute for religion as a dynamic force. He says of this motivating factor: From a psychological as well as from a common sense point of view, the greatest source of help is religion.... The religious belief in God, the Ten Commandments, and the teachings of Jesus, give parents a certainty and an authority with their children which they otherwise lack. Those parents who wondered how, in the absence of the religious influences which had moulded them, they could mould the moral habits of their children, were facing an unanswerable problem. There is no rational substitute for the supernatural power which the unquestioned belief in Divine Being and a divine moral order confers.... Religion is the only unifying and ever-present force which can help to solve the inevitable moral and intellectual conflicts of parents, children and society at large. In a world of change and rebellion to authority, God is the only fixed point.? Dr. William Lyon Phelps considers the art of living together the greatest of all the arts. He insists that the surest way of accomplish- ?Henry C. Link, The Return to Religion, p. 104. 497 ing this "is through religion?religion in the home." Civilization marches hand in hand with religion. Life and religion cannot be divorced. The spiritual is as permanent as the temporal. Religion is not like the pages of a calendar, to be used for a season and then discarded, nor like the fleeting shadows on a sun dial, but is as abiding as life itself. No matter how efficient the school and the church may be, there's no place like home for giving moral and religious training. For personality development and character training, for loyalty to one's country and one's God, unselfish service to one's associates, and the application of the great moral principles upon which a superior social order is built, there is no substitute for religion in the home. The Family Relationships Projected into Eternity. The fireside of the Latter-day Saints should be a sacred symbol of the future Heavenly home. Heaven will be but little more than the ideal family relationship continued after death. It has been said that "the family that prays together, stays together." In view of our conception of the family unit in eternity, our obligation to preserve the integrity of that group becomes a precious one. Since the first few years of life are so vital in determining one's character, the parents should take advantage of every opportunity to train their children aright so that the integrity and loyalty of the family unit will be preserved forever. The Lord has instructed Latter- 498 day Saint parents to teach the Gospel to their children. Where this is faithfully done in the home, there is no power that can break the bonds of family integrity and unity. Truly, the families that pray and worship together will stay together?forever. Problems for Discussion 1. Study the following: Doctrine and Covenants, 68:24-28; 93:40; Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 283-300; Gospel Doctrine, pp. 313-341. Explain why the Latter-day Saints should be greatly concerned about the moral training of their children. 2. How does the Latter-day Saint conception of the perpetuation of the family relationship in Heaven contribute to our interest in this problem? 3. Consider the wisdom in the statement that "the families that pray together will stay together." 4. Read Proverbs 31 as a tribute to an industrious and devoted mother. Recommended Readings Books: Aldrich, C. Anderson and Aldrich, Mary M., Babies Are Human Beings, New York: The Macmillan Company, 1938. Anderson, Harold, Children in the Family, New York: D. Appleton Century Company, 1939. Anderson, John, Happy Childhood, New York: D. Appleton-Century Company, 1933- Ellenwood, James Lee, There's No Place ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 Like Home, New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1939. Gruenberg, Sidonie M., We the Parents, New York: Harpers & Bros., 1939. Taylor, Katherine Whiteside, Do Adolescents Need Parents? New York: D. Appleton-Century Company, 1938. Magazines: American, August, 1939, "Listen?You Amateur Parents." Journal Home Economics, February, 1940, "Highroad to Happiness." International Journal of Religious Education, June, 1940, "The Modern Family." Good Housekeeping, June, 1938, "Religion in the Home." National Parent-Teacher, November, 1938, "The Citizen in the Nursery." White House Conference Report, Children in a Democracy, "Religion in the Lives of Children." Supt. Of Documents, Washington, D. C. Price 20c. Newspapers: The Deseret News (Church Section), January 7, 1940, "Does Your Religion Register in Your Life?" by Elder B. S. Hinckley. Ibid., January 27, 1940, "Religion and the Home," by Elder B. S. Hinckley. Ibid., February 3, 1940, "The Mormon Contribution to Home Building," by Elder B. S. Hinckley. Ibid., April 15, 1939, "The Home? Fundamental to Our Civic and Religious Life," by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Ibid., June 22, 1935, "Mormon Ideas of Home," by Elder Stephen L Richards. Mission Lessons LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired ) Lesson X Seeking A New Home (Tuesday, October 22) On being driven out of Jackson county, the Saints fled across the Missouri into Clay county. This part of the state was sparsely inhabited. The people, however, received the newcomers with kindness, because LESSON DEPARTMENT they believed their neighbors over the river had mistreated the Mormons. Here the exiles found shelter for a time. They did not, of course, expect to be here very long, and their hosts did not want them to stay. Both hoped earnestly for a restoration of the Mormons to their former homes. So the Saints lived as they could?in vacant houses, in barns, in tents and wagons, and under the open sky, winter as it was. Then, too, they found such work as there was to do in that season of the year. Meantime, measures were taken to restore the Saints to their lands in Jackson county. First, reason and conciliation were tried; but the "old" settlers were stubborn. They would sell out, but at a price that the Mormons could not afford to pay. The Saints were unwilling to dispose of what they believed was their inheritance, for they had the right to live on their own lands and in their own homes. Next, some of the leaders of the Church called on the Governor of Missouri. They asked him whether he would protect them in their rights if they went back to their homes in the county. He said he would, but later he went back on this promise to them. Governor Dunklin was not a strong, forceful man. He admitted, however, that the anti-Mormons were in the wrong in driving out the Mormons. Finally, it was decided to raise a small army and go to Missouri from Ohio. This the Saints had been commanded to do in a revelation to the Prophet. The purpose of the army was not to fight but rather to protect the exiles after they should have 499 regained their lands in Jackson county, and also to take provisions to them. It was believed then that the governor would keep his promise to stand by the Saints. The measure failed of the first purpose. Not being able to return to their homes and not being wanted in Clay county, there was but one thing for the exiles to do. That was to find a new home. This new home they found in what came to be Caldwell county. The county was created for them by the legislature. And so, in 1834 and after, about twelve thousand Latter-day Saints moved into this and adjacent counties?some from Clay county and others from elsewhere in Missouri and other parts of the nation. The Mormons were determined to stick together. In this new home, mainly in Caldwell and Daviess counties, the Saints flourished. They took up land, they established towns, they built themselves homes, they constructed schoolhouses and meetinghouses, and they formed a political government such as prevailed in other parts of the state. They even dedicated a site for a temple. No sooner, however, were they settled there, permanently as they thought, than new troubles arose. It all grew out of an election fight. Some non-Mormon office seekers tried to prevent some Mormons from voting. Rumor, as usual, exaggerated this affair; and as a result, mobs sprang up in several places. They professed to believe that the Mormons had armed against the "old" settlers. The men in the Church, of course, felt that they had to arm in self-defense. 500 It all ended badly for the Saints. After most of them had gone to Far West, the principal Mormon town, the place was surrounded by troops called out by the governor. Of course, the town had to give up. The Prophet was taken prisoner, with his two counselors, Sidney Rigdon and Hyrum Smith, and some other prominent elders of the Church. Meanwhile, the governor had issued an order to drive the Mormons out of the state or to "exterminate" them. As the Saints did not wish to be killed outright, they left the state. There were between twelve and fifteen thousand of them. To make matters worse, Joseph Smith and the men with him were taken to a distant town?first, to Independence, Jackson county, and then to Liberty. There they were kept in prison till after all the Saints had left Missouri. The sufferings of both the prisoners and the fleeing Saints were beyond description; for it was winter again, as it had been when they were expelled from Jackson county. In consequence of it all, many of them fell desperately sick, and some of them died. The Saints fled to the Mississippi River, to the northeast. But some of them, when they reached this stream, went up the river on the west side into the Territory of Iowa. Most of the people, however, crossed over to the town of Quincy, in Illinois. Here and in near-by places they were received with great kindness and consideration, They were given shelter, food, and later work for the men. Our people have never forgotten this kindness. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940 When, in April, 1839, the Prophet came to Quincy, after more than five months' confinement in Liberty Jail, he immediately set about to find a new home for his people. Up the Mississippi a few miles from Quincy was a place called Commerce. It was a boggy piece of land that sloped from the river upward to the prairie, in the form of a horseshoe. Here Nauvoo, which means "The Beautiful," was built. The land belonged to a Dr. Galland and a Mr. White, who sold it to the Saints at low prices and allowed them plenty of time in which to pay for its purchase. At this time there were only a few houses in Commerce, made of logs or of rock. At once the Saints began to gather there. Then fever and ague broke out, and many were laid low. This resulted from two things: first, the place was too damp; second, the power of resistance of the people was low. One morning, during this general sickness, the Prophet rose with the Spirit upon him. By the power of God, he first healed those in his own home and yard who were sick, and then all those on the river bank in other houses and yards. After that, he and some other leaders crossed the river to Montrose, and there he healed the sick, including Brigham Young and others of the Apostles. A Gentile, up the river a few miles, asked that he come to his home and administer to his sick children. This man was not a member of the Church. The Prophet, giving a handkerchief to Elder Wilford Woodruff, told him to go and heal the children, putting the handker- LESSON DEPARTMENT chief on their faces as he administered to them. Elder Woodruff did so, and the children were healed. This red bandana handkerchief is still in existence. When the city was laid out. The streets were wide and ran at right angles to one another; and the houses, when they were built, were set back on the lots. In the rear were to be fruit trees and bushes, with a vegetable garden. In the front were to be lawns, flowers, and ornamental trees. The pattern was the City of Zion, which was to be built in Jackson county, Missouri. Houses went up rapidly, of brick, lumber or rock. Some of them are still standing. On the brow of the hill, up from the river, where the city joined the prairie, a temple site was chosen, The temple was to cost a million dollars ?more than ten times the amount spent on the Kirtland Temple. A more liberal charter was given to Nauvoo by the legislature than that possessed by any other city in the nation. The Saints, once more, were settled. They had a beautiful city, with 501 a civic government and officers of their own choosing. In addition, they had their own separate courts and judges and their own army, called the Nauvoo Legion. We are interested, however, in the religious events that happened there, and these we shall consider in the next lesson. Questions 1, Why did not the Saints wish to leave Jackson county, Missouri? 2. Why did the Saints go to Caldwell county? Where is that with respect to Jackson county? (Consult the map.) 3. How was it that they had to leave Caldwell county? 4. Where did they go then? 5. Tell about the new location and the sickness that occurred there. 6. Why was the town named Nauvoo? In connection with this lesson, you might read the following references: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 121, 123, and such parts of 124 as you like. Point out the various sentiments and ideas of these Sections. Can you infer anything about the character of the Prophet from these? Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. CAN IT HAPPEN HERE? That book you read brought romance from afar, Though every day you pass it?where you are. The radio story called forth flowing tears; A broken heart has lived near you for years. You craved such flowers as the screen star wore, But never saw the ones beside your door. A miracle opened eye and ear ? ? Do you believe that it could happen here? ?Bess Foster Smith. Mother's Diet Can Help Build Baby's Teeth "A tooth for every child" used to be a common experience of mothers-to-be. They expected to lose some of their teeth with the arrival of children. Now scientific studies show that mothers can not only be protected better against loss of teeth, but their diets can influence the soundness and health of their children's teeth. An article in the March, 1939, Journal of the American Dental Association, says: "Some evidence of the effect of favorable prenatal diets upon dentition is provided by a comprehensive research project in child growth and development now being conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health. The routine of this study includes independent appraisal of the diet throughout pregnancy and infancy. X-ray and dental examinations of the children are made at three-month intervals up to 18 months of age, and after that at six-month intervals. "Indications are that children whose mothers' diets throughout pregnancy were poor in respect to calcium, phosphorus and Vitamin D show considerable caries (tooth decay) at an early age and have lower than average ratings for osseous development and density; that, at a comparable age, children whose mothers' diet during pregnancy were rated good or excellent tend to show no caries, and have average or above average rating for osseous development and density." One factor acknowledged to be important in the prevention of tooth decay is Vitamin D. This is because teeth are composed 90 to 95 per cent of calcium and phosphorus, and Vitamin D is the activator which enables the body to use these minerals. This important vitamin is found, says an article in Practical Home Economics, September, 1939, in Vitamin D fortified and irradiated milk, in fish liver oils, and in sunlight. Medicinal preparations of Vitamin D concentrates are also available. Sparkle to the Eyes and Charm to the Smile Drink a quart of milk a day as an aid to vibrant health. In Cloverleaf Milk you get the added benefit of extra vitamin D which helps maintain sound, even teeth. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Training in the Most Important Aspects of Life Being the largest private university in the intermountain region and also an institution of the Latter-day Saint Church, Brigham Young University is able to give balanced preparation for life. In scores of occupations, but this training is permeated by the principles and ideals of the Church. A new religion and social center is now being erected under the Church Welfare plan. It will provide splendid facilities which will greatly aid the faculty in caring for the religious needs of the nearly three thousand students. Registration Dates Autumn Quarter, 1940?September 20, 21, 23 For new catalog, address the President Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH LIFE'S TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Was. 5132?Hy. 180 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Not only does B. Y. U. Offer standard college work leading to success Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden "Erected in Grateful Remembrance..." Some monuments are built purposely, of stone and bronze, to remind their beholders of incidents in the human drama. Other monuments are erected by toil and faith that are not intended to be monuments at all. A shaft raised to an event, a man, or even a bird, usually bespeaks someone's gratitude for help or deliverance from impending doom. A business, whether it be printing, automobile-building or the making of mouse-traps, whose survival is grounded on service and fair-dealing, is no less a monument, not alone to the founders of that business but also to the public appreciation which makes its continued existence possible. While we, in our business, are proud of the fact that our beginnings go back to pioneer days, we are equally proud of the part we have played in the development of the West, of the service we are able to render our customers by reason of keeping abreast of modern trends in the ad industry. May we serve you? THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Nelma R. Bitter As a stenographer in the offices of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bitter, daughter of Mrs. Rebecca Richardson, Mesa, Ariz., has proved the truth of the statement: "L.D.S. Training Pays!" Ask us to explain how it can help YOU, too! L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Relief Society Song Book Is Now Ready?The Price is 85c Per Copy?Post Paid Address Orders to GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishops Building?Salt Lake City Thousands of housewives serve Fisher's DUTCH BREAD daily! Popular Fisher's DUTCH BREAD is receiving enthusiastic acclaim for its appetizing, delightful, taste appeal. Give yourself and your family a new taste thrill?take home a loaf next time you shop. Available at your grocers. A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 