OD D SERVICE It is our aim to thoughtfully arrange and conduct every funeral service in a way that will beautify the memory of departed loved ones, and at the same time help ENJOY to soften the grief of those left ee behind. In time of need—rememetter ving ber— WITH
DESERET MORTUARY | | Cheap Electricit
"Service Above All' Cdp) eC ricl y
Salt Lak Ogd ' aoa } Prove.
Utah Power & Light Co.
NEW BOOKS for HOME LIBRARIES
PRIESTHOOD AND CHURCH GOVERNNew Literary Course Book to take the A new two-year study course for Priestlypse."" hood Quorums
Dr. John_A. Widtsoe
THE BENT TWIG
Dorothy Canfield $1.00
LATTER-DAY SAINT HYMNS
George D. Pypet
New Edition—Gospel Doctrine.
Bryant S. Hinckley $.35
LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH
A VOICE FROM THE DUST
Joseph Fielding Smith $2.50
Genet Bingham Dee $2.50
GRANDEUR OF ANCIENT AMERICA
HELLO LIFE
Contains 140 Beautiful PhotoElsie Talmage Brandley $1.50 graphs $1.00 (Plus Sales Tax)
We have a complete stock of Relief Society supplies and lesson materials. See our display of Gifts and Greeting Cards for every occasion.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
Phone Wasatch 6967
44 East South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MENT lace of 'Four Horsemen of the Apoca-
a U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid
SALT YAKEYBITY," UTAH
PERMIT No. 690
me /)
"As time and hours paseth awaye
So doeth life of man decaye.
As time can be redeemed with no cost
Bestow it well and let houre be lost."
|ELIEFSOCIETY Ky
OKING FORWARD
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE each month brings to you some of the best lessons and articles obtainable on a wide range of interesting and important phases of life.
Index. To. Advenrtisars
Bennett Glass and Paint Co 6145
Fisher Baking Co 145
L. D. S. Business College 145
f(r iwbih HOOBack Cover
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
ae D. S. Training Paysl"
Co lo rSty le
L. D. 5. BUSINESS COLLEGE is Your Home
SECOND TO NONE | |!
Bemmnett's
Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service
It's the Right School
Bennett's 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoraCc lEd tion ee ees mixing. You get i 1 exactly the color you want.
Ommercia ucation
Ask for the FREE large color chips for Your
Ask for our "Bulletin of Information"
BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO.. Salt Lake Ci
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH country.
JUST TRY meee |
MUTE BRED
Relief Society
A Product of the Magazine
Fisher Master Bakers
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. I. A. Business College
Dealers throughout the ae ountate
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII MARCH, 1940 No. 3
Contents
Special Features
Frontispiece—St. Paul Giuseppe Ribera 146
New General Board 147
Achsa E, Paxman 148
Mary G. Judd En a Ae 149
Luella N. Adams 150
Marianne C. Sharp —— _— 152
Armna B, Hattqitiet 153
Ethel B, Andrew - O 154
Hortense S. Andersen
Gertrude R. Garff 155
Leona B. Fetzer Iesccsccsecenee-csececseeecenes fee eS oad 156
Widithy SY 0 tt ere157
Long Remembered Words Westa P. Crawford 159
Tapestry Cut —_ 164
My Relief Society Tapestry Pe core ren Mary G. Judd 165
Progress Under the Direction of the Priesthood Marianne C. Sharp 168
Power In Numbers Rae B. Barker 170
Relief Society Spiritually Strong Counselor Donna D. Sorensen 172
The Cultural Strength of Relief Society Eeeeee eeeAnna Boss Hart 174
Work and Business Leda T. Jensen 177
Relief Society as a Community Builder President Amy Brown Lyman 179
Fiction
Inheritance of Love; Olive W. Burt 182
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 5) —Dorothy Clapp Robinson 195
General Features
The Sunny Side of the Hill (Open The Windows) Lella Marler Hoggan 187
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 190
Editorial: White House Conference on Children in a Democracy 191
Notes to the Field: 193
Music Department—The Projection of Emotion to the Chorus Wade N. Stephens 202
Lessons
Theology—Paul's Lasting Influence 203
Messages to the Home—Charity 207
Literature—The Bent Twig a 208
Mission—Events In Missouri - 212
Poetry
PRE rene CCCP ESE ROSES ECCSAnnie Wells Cannon 145
JOY) oe ressseenetrereeet te trececes eee Rachel Barney Taft 158
Spring Is Here! -Beatrice Rordame Parsons 179
he get era id ieee aaa nner eeeMerling D. Clyde 186
Springtime: = Grace M. Candland 189
Questing Gertrude Perry Stanton 194
Miranda Snow Walton 201
Irene R. Davis 214
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980,
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance,
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act é6f March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

PAUL By Annie Wells Cannon He journeyed far, on persecution bent; Tempestuous soul, torn with bitter hate! When lo, behold! Before Damascus gate He faltered, fell in terror and in fright When 'round about him shined' a lustrous light. Trembling and blind, he deemed his life was spent, When through the thund'rous earth-quaked din These anguished words in sorrow came to him: "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Arise! Thy mission lies To lands beyond the sea To testify A darkened world of me." To Antioch, Athens, Cyprus and Cyrene And all the cities and the isles between, In recompense Paul took the word divine, Nor wavered ever, as he testified Of resurrected Christ— The crucified
Vol. XXVII MARCH, 1940 No. 3
New General Board
THE reorganization of the Relief Society General Board, effective January 1, 1940, was announced in the January issue of the Magazine. Biographical sketches of President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Marcia K. Howells, Second Counselor Donna D. Sorensen and Secretary-Treasurer Vera White Pohlman were published in that issue. The Magazine is now pleased to announce the new General Board members: Belle S. Spafford, Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker, Anna S. Barlow, Achsa E. Paxman, Mary G. Judd, Luella N. Adams, Marianne C. Sharp, Anna B. Hart, Ethel B. Andrew, Gertrude R. Garff, Leona B. Fetzer, Edith S. Elliott. The first seven named were members of the former Board and are already known to Relief Society members through their visits to the stakes, their activities at Relief Society General Conferences, and through the pages of the Magazine. Biographical sketches were published as follows: Belle S. Spafford, June, 1935; Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens and Rae B. Barker, April, 1937; Nellie O. Parker, May, 1937; Anna S. Barlow, August, 1938. Short biographical sketches of the newly appointed Board members are published in this issue of the Magazine in order that our readers may become acquainted with them. These women have been called through the Priesthood to positions of leadership in the Organization. They are imbued with the spirit of the Gospel and are willing to work for the improvement of the women of the Church and the advancement of the work of the Master. We are confident that the loyal support and splendid cooperation given the General Board in the past by Relief Society officers and members will be extended to the new Board. Relief Society is a great organization. It has been given an important assignment. Success is not dependent upon the General Board alone nor upon any one group within the organization but upon the united, systematic, devoted service of all. With each fully magnifying her own calling and all working in harmony, loving and supporting one another, Relief Society should know a glorious and successful future.
Achsa Eggertsen Paxman
ACHSA E. PAXMAN is the daughter of Simon P. Eggertsen and Henrietta Nielsen Eggertsen. Her father was a school teacher for fifty-three years, a portion of that time acting as principal and superintendent of schools. He was a devoted Church worker and served as ward bishop and later as counselor in the Utah Stake presidency, which position he held for several years. Her mother was a Relief Society president and has always been sympathetic, understanding, and a source of encouragement to her husband and family. After her training at the Brigham Young University, Mrs. Paxman taught school for three years and was a stenographer one year. In 1908, she became the wife of W. Monroe Paxman. Mr. Paxman has served as ward Sunday School superintendent, member of the Utah Stake Sunday School superintendency, member of the ward bishopric and member of the Utah Stake presidency. He has also been a member of the Provo City school board. Mr. And Mrs. Paxman are the parents of five children: Elaine, Rulon, Beth, Monroe, and Doressa. Up to date, three of the children have graduated from the Brigham Young University and have filled missions. Rulon is a graduate of Stanford University and for a short time was bishop of the Palo Alto Ward. Mrs. Paxman has always been active in Church work. At twelve years of age, she became a Sunday School kindergarten teacher and later a stake Sunday School instructor in that department. She has served as Sunday School and ward organist; treasurer, class leader, and president of the Y. W. M. I. A. In two wards; stake board member and president of the Utah Stake Y. W. M. I. A. Counselor and president of the Utah Stake Relief Society for fifteen years, eleven of which she served as president. Mrs. Paxman was a member of the Utah State Legislature for two terms, Utah County Republican vice-chairman for several years, and at one time state vice-chairman of the Republican Convention. She was a delegate to the Pan-American Convention of the League of Women Voters in Baltimore in 1922, and to the National Conference of Social Work in San Francisco in 1928. She has served as a director of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers, Utah County Chapter of American Red Cross, Utah County Mental Hygiene Society, Utah County Board of Public Welfare, and the Utah Valley Hospital. At the present time she is a director of the last three named.. Mrs. Paxman is a devoted Latter-day Saint. To live according to the principles and standards of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 149
Church has always been her earnest desire, and serving the Church has been a joy. She has unusual executive ability which has enabled her to fill responsible positions with efficiency. She is a splendid homemaker and a gracious hostess. She comes to the Board richly endowed for the position to which she has been called.
Mary Grant Judd
MARY GRANT JUDD, although the only child of President Heber J. Grant and his wife Augusta Winters Grant, was not reared alone. It was in the early nineties that Sister Grant took to her heart the six motherless children of her husband, and Mary doesn't remember the day when she was not one of a large family. It so happened that just at the time Augusta Grant came into the home her husband had lost everything he had in the world in a financial way. That "Aunt Gusta", as the children called her, managed to keep the family budget (including clothes for herself and the children, food for ten and some of the operating expenses of the house) within the sum of seventy dollars a month is still to be marveled at. The house at 14 Second East Street, which President Grant had built many years before for his widowed mother, was added to as the family grew, until there were fourteen rooms. The only help that could be afforded in this large home was that contributed by a school girl who worked for her board. But the mother had not spent ten years of her life in school teaching to no purpose. Each member of the family was given definite tasks to accomplish, and though there were obstacles to overcome and adjustments to make, the home presided
150 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
over by Brother and Sister Grant was a singularly happy one. In this old-fashioned home, friends both old and young were ever welcome. Here good books were always to be found, fine music was enjoyed, and real works of art adorned the walls. As for drama— that was a never-to-be-forgotten pleasure. Fortunately, through the father's identification with the management of the Salt Lake Theatre, the family, with no expense, once a week, and often twice, witnessed plays in which performed some of the most famous actors and actresses the American stage has produced. And with it all, the Gospel was not neglected. Family prayers were said night and morning, the children always taking their turns in praying; hymns were sung, and it was the natural thing for the children to follow the example of their parents in living according to the precepts that the father was teaching the people of the Church. Such was the childhood background of Mary Grant Judd. Being brought up in one of the oldest wards in the city, where the stores early crowded out the dwellings, it was necessary for any who were at all capable to be pressed into service. Before she should have been out of Sunday School classes herself, Mary was assisting in teaching others. When in 1902 she accompanied her parents to Japan, she was but thirteen years of age and yet was considered mature enough by President Joseph F. Smith to be set apart by him as a regular missionary. She remained there over a year, returning to enter the L. D. S. High School, where she completed the required course and graduated. In the meantime, her father had been called to preside over the European Mission, and Mary was afforded the opportunity of visiting most of the countries of Europe, meeting the Saints in the different missions. After three years at the University of Utah and one at Columbia University, she married Robert L. Judd, who is well known for his work throughout the Church as vice-chairman of the Church Welfare Committee. Although seven children have come to the Judd household, their mother has always taken an active part in the ward and stake organizations. This experience together with her strong testimony of the Gospel and her broad outlook obtained through education and extensive travel is excellent preparation for her new duties as a member of the General Board.
Luella Nebeker Adams
IN BEAR LAKE VALLEY, Luella Nebeker Adams' birthplace, was a cold, hard country in which to make homes. Her grandparents, Ira Nebeker and William Hulme, were called to preside as the first bishops in Laketown and Bloomington. These grandparents had determination and the courage of their convictions, qualities so much needed by our pioneers. Luella's parents, Hyrum Nebeker and Almira Hulme Nebeker, were richly endowed with intelligence and spiritual values. Hyrum Nebeker attended school at the Brigham Young Academy under the great educator, Karl G. Maeser. Almira Hulme was one of the first school teachers in the Bear Lake valley. Luella spent her girlhood days on the shores of beautiful Bear Lake where her parents engaged in ranching. Here she learned simple, fundamental truths which have enriched her life, made her patient, understanding, and kindly dispositioned. When the four children in the family reached school age, they spent the winters in Logan, Utah, where Luella attended the Brigham Young College and later the Utah Agricultural College. It was in Logan that she met and married Orval Adams. From this happy union have come six sons. The father and three sons, Allen, Lane, and Hyrum, have fulfilled missions in Great Britain. Lane was secretary of the British Mission, and the father and Hyrum served as secretaries of the European Mission. Mrs. Adams has always been an ardent Church worker. As president of the University Ward Relief Society she had great joy and satisfaction. Here she gained an understanding of the needs of Latter-day Saint women and an appreciation of the great Relief Society work. A student of music, she has been intensely interested in the music program of the Society, believing music
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 151
to be vital in the lives of women. She has been an active member of the Singing Mothers. Mrs. Adams' home is one of culture and refinement, reflecting her spiritual nature. Her graciousness and hospitality make her a charming hostess. In order to live well-balanced, happy lives she believes every woman should have some hobby or interest other than her home duties. She is an enthusiastic gardener and spends many happy hours working among her flowers. Making moving pictures is another hobby she enjoys.
Marianne Clark Sharp
MARIANNE CLARK SHARP was eighteen when she joined the New York City Relief Society. With her parents, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Luacine Savage Clark, she had moved from Washington, D. C., and was then studying French and Greek. Her grade and high school training had been received in Washington. The year following, the Clark family moved to Utah, and Marianne entered the University of Utah, majored in Ancient Languages and was graduated in 1924 with High Honors. In her senior year, she was given a Teaching Fellowship in Latin and continued teaching Latin at the University and Stewart Training School after graduation. During the time she was attending the University, she taught classes in the Sunday School and Primary organizations of the Twentieth Ward. She relates that what she has learned in the Church has been through teaching others; for as a child in Washington, D. C., there was no organized instruction for Latter-day Saint children. The only Church activities were two Sacrament meetings held each month in the home of Senator Reed Smoot. When she married in 1927, she was a member of the Ensign Stake Sunday School Board. Her husband, Ivor Sharp, was employed in the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in New York City, and Marianne lived there for the next eleven years. While making New York home, she served continuously in the Relief Society, first as literary and theological teacher and then as president of the Queens Branch Relief Society. Later, when the New York Stake was created, she served on the stake board and as a counselor to President Lorena Fletcher. She also represented the Relief Society on the National Woman's Radio Committee, which is composed of representatives of national women's organizations for the purpose of fostering better radio programs throughout the country. From her girlhood, she has been intensely interested in genealogical research and temple work and enjoyed the advantages for research offered by the New York Public Library. One year she served as chairman of the Queens Branch genealogical committee. Marianne was also a charter member of the Queens Camp Daughters of the Utah Pioneers.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 153
In 1938, the Sharp family, now with the addition of Luacine, Louise and Annetta, moved to Salt Lake, and Marianne continued her Relief Society work as literary teacher in the Twentieth Ward.
Anna Boss Hart
ANNA BOSS HART is the only child of Adolph and Sarah Alleman Boss. On June 4, 1935, she was married to John William Hart of Rigby, Idaho, who died a year later, leaving an infant son. She received her early education in the Logan schools, at the Brigham Young College, received a B. S. From the Utah State Agricultural College, and an M. A. From the University of Southern California. Recently she did graduate work at the University of Wisconsin. Her teaching experience includes the following: In the grades at Millville, Utah, at Arimo High School, Principal of Kelsey, Texas High School, head of the Department of Speech at Logan Senior High School, and Instructor in English at the Brigham Young University. She directed Little Theatre plays at the Utah State Agricultural College and also Church productions. Her home was one of reverence, and her experience in the Church has been varied and continual since she was a child. She has been a member of the Cache Stake Sunday School Board; also a member of the Rigby Stake Relief Society Board. On September 8, 1935, she was set apart as second counselor to President Lettie Call under whose direction her appreciation of Relief Society increased. She also had the opportunity to teach in the Madison, Wisconsin, Relief Society. One of the valuable experiences of her life was a mission under the inspirational leadership of President and Sister S. O. Bennion in the Central States. Great appreciation is felt by her for the life and inspiration of her mother, her husband, her relatives, her friends and her church. Unquestioned loyalty and support has characterized all of her activities.
Ethel Bean Andrew By Hortense S. Andersen
MARY ETHEL BEAN ANDREW, of Ogden, Utah, is a leader among women, yet she follows other fine leadership with humility and dignity. She admires beauty, talents and heroic qualities, such as courage and fortitude; but above all she esteems spiritual development and personal integrity. She is a student of books, people and life, keeping ever alert to changes and their significance. She loves humanity and holds open house, not only for her own, her husband's and her children's friends but for any stranger or acquaintance in need. She has the gift to sympathize, to soothe and to counsel and is generous with her time, her talents and her worldly goods. She knows well the joy of serving others. Mrs. Andrew came from a long line of sturdy pioneers. Her grandparents on both sides were called by President Brigham Young to pioneer southern Utah. It was in Richfield that she was born, the eldest of ten children. Her father, Victor E. Bean, was a teacher and superintendent of schools for seventeen years. He was valiant in the defense of truth, never missing an opportunity to bear his testimony or to preach the Gospel. Her. Mother, Mary Hannah Baker, daughter of Hannah and William George Baker, was noted for her unselfishness, generosity and hospitality. For many years she was a devoted officer in the Relief Society. June, 1913, in the Salt Lake Temple, Ethel Bean married June Andrew. They have three lovely daughters: Virginia, who has filled a mission in the Northwest; June, called to the French Mission and now serving in Montreal, Canada; and Arlene, a student at Weber College. Each is a credit to her family and community and reflects the fine example of her parents. Brother Andrew has always been an active Church worker, having held many responsible positions. Together they have worked, always sustaining each other in their various callings. Ethel Andrew is well qualified for her position as a member of the General Board. She has served in all of the auxiliary organizations. At the age of sixteen she was called to be secretary of the Union Stake Relief Society. She has been literary class leader, ward president and at the time of her call to the General Board was president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 155
She is humble and prayerful. Her life is a garden of good deeds, sown from her rich life experiences.
Gertrude Ryberg Garff
GERTRUDE RYBERG GARFF, daughter of Eric W. Ryberg and Charlotte Critchlow, was born November 2, 1912, at Hyrum, Utah. Mrs. Garff's entire schooling took place in Salt Lake City. Completing her training at the University of Utah in 1935, she graduated with a degree of Bachelor of Science, majoring in home economics; she was elected to Omicron Nu, the national honorary scholastic home economics society. Before completing her university training, Mrs. Garff served as a missionary in the Eastern States Mission from 1931 to 1933. While there she rendered faithful, intelligent service to the Church, giving special attention to radio activities. Mrs. Garff married Mark Brimhall Garff October 11, 1935, making her home in Salt Lake City. After her marriage, Mrs. Garff became actively engaged in Relief Society work in Richards Ward as teacher in the Theology department. In the late spring of 1937, Mrs. Garff accepted a call to go with her husband to Denmark to assist him in presiding over the Danish Mission. This assignment was delayed until after the birth of Mrs. Garff's first child; but in September of the same year, two months after her baby son was born, she completed the long journey to Denmark. While in Denmark, she had full charge of all Relief Society work and was advisor for all women's organizations in the mission, together with caring for the welfare of the missionaries. With her striking and pleasing personality, she won the love and sincere admiration of members, friends and missionaries. Her faith and devotion to the Church was shown by remaining. In Denmark during the beginning of the war, caring not only for her own but for the hundreds of missionaries who came to Copenhagen from other missions. This was a trying time. When the call came for her to return
156 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
home, without her husband, she had the faith to leave with her two-year-old son on a small freighter. The voyage was made during bad weather, sixteen days being required to cross the water. Mrs. Garff's training and experience qualify her for the responsible position to which she is now called as a member of the Relief Society General Board.
Leona B. Fetzer
THE parents of Leona B. Fetzer were converts from Germany. They are devoted Latter-day Saints and early imparted to their children a deep interest in the Gospel. Leona has served as a class leader in various Church organizations since the age of 14 years and as an officer on the Wells and Utah Y. W. M.I. A. Stake boards. When she was 19 years old, she was appointed organist in the Jefferson Ward Relief Society. Since then she has taken an active part in the Relief Society organization. After completing a twenty-seven months' mission in the Northern States, Miss Fetzer began her career as a social worker in the Welfare Department of the Relief Society. She later became Social Service Director of the Utah County Department of Public Welfare. While in this position she taught the social case work class at the Brigham Young University, following Sister Amy Brown Lyman who gave up the work when she left-to preside over the women's organizations of the European Mission. At the instance of the Relief Society, Miss Fetzer went to Los Angeles to work in the Relief Society Social Welfare office in that city. At the present time, she is a Child-Welfare worker in the Sanpete County Department of Public Welfare, working under the general supervision of the Child-Welfare Division of the State Department of Public Welfare. She received her undergraduate college training at the University of Utah, the Brigham Young University and the University of Southern California. From the latter institution she was graduated with honors, her majors being sociology and psychology.. She was here elected to Alpha Kappa Delta, honorary fraternity. Following her graduation, she entered the University of Chicago Graduate School of Social Service Administration, where she spent one year. Here she began specialization in child welfare work, and while at the University worked in a child placing agency and in one of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 157
the nation's outstanding psychiatric clinics. Leona Fetzer has traveled extensively, having visited European countries on two occasions. Her last trip was occasioned by her attendance at the International Conference of Social Work in London, at which time she visited penal and other institutions.
Edith Smith Elliott
EDITH SMITH ELLIOTT comes to the General Board of Relief Society with a background rich in experience and training through a heritage of Mayflower, Revolutionary, and Pioneer ancestry. Her parents, Lucy Woodruff Smith and George Albert Smith, have devoted their lives to home, church and civic activities. Mrs. Elliott's childhood and early schooling were scattered from Salt Lake City to California, including a winter in St. George. She attended the L. D. S. High School. In 1919 she was called on a mission and accompanied her parents to Europe where her father presided over the European Mission. This was at the close of the great World War when the Saints were greatly in need of the spiritual and physical help of the Relief Society. There was but a handful of missionaries in all of Europe, so there was much work for willing hands. Mrs. Elliott was appointed general secretary of the European Mission Relief Societies and worked diligently, along with her mother who was general president, to help relieve the needy and the suffering in war-torn Europe. She attended the International Council of Women in Oslo, Norway, in 1920, with her mother who was a delegate. In 1921 she and her father were guests of the International Drapers Convention in Great Britain. Brother Smith was a delegate representing the Z. C. M. I. At this convention the fact was established that our pioneer institution
158 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was the oldest department store in the world. Months of travel through European countries gave her a wealth of experience with and an understanding of all classes of people. Following her return to Salt Lake City, she attended the University of Utah, where she took her Bachelor's and Master's degrees, majoring in history and political science. She has taught her major in a city high school and the University of Utah. For the past 12 years she has been an instructor in the University Extension Division. For that department she has written several courses of study in history and political science. On May 25, 1929, she married George O. Elliott. They have two beautiful children—George Thomas and Nancy Lu. Since childhood, Mrs. Elliott has been active in the Church. She had charge of the Junior Sunday School in her ward for six years and was Gleaner leader in the Mutual Improvement Association for three years. She was an energetic and popular member of the Bonneville Stake Sunday School Board at the time she was called to this new position.:
JOY
It's joy to hear the wild birds' call When wakening at flush of dawn; While overwhelming fragrance waves From dew-wet flowers and freshened lawn.
To see the morning sunshine splash The window panes with golden light; Forsythia nodding near the sill An added happiness to sight.
To render service when, of need, Though small, perhaps a heart will sing Both now and in the after. Years... Remembering some little thing.
To find a folded, lifting-grace Within a bundle of distress: Through faith and hope and busy hands To bring from chaos, loveliness.
—Rachel Barney Taft.
Long Remembered Words By Vesta P. Crawford
"I now declare this Society organized... "—Joseph Smith.
IT has been said that a word is like a seed, for when a word is spoken it becomes the nucleus of a chain of thought. And the thoughts, in turn, grow actively and develop into a tree of many branches. Ninety-eight years ago, in Nauvoo, Illinois, the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke to the women of the Church in words that glow with a greater light each returning year. The women answered the Prophet's call with willing words that very soon grew into service that has increased and broadened in scope until today there are thousands of women, in many nations, who are grateful for the long remembered words—the words that were spoken at the organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. The farm woman in southern Utah, the busy wife on a ranch in Idaho, the alert mother in California, the sincere woman in a branch organization in Tonga or Alaska, women in America and across the sea find the message of the Relief Society a vital factor in making life broader and better. To the woman at home among her relatives and friends, and to the woman living in a great city, far away from her loved ones, the Relief Society is a uniting force, welding its membership together in bonds of fellowship for the accomplishment of personal growth and for service to those who need material and spiritual help. There is nowhere a Latter-day Saint woman who is not interested in recalling once more the events of that March day nearly a hundred years ago when the pioneer women of the Church were organized into the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo".
March 17, 1842; It is early spring, almost planting time in the prairie lands. The city of Nauvoo lies bathed in sunlight, its slopes rising above the great Mississippi River in a series of greening terraces. Clumps of willows and groves of trees are not yet in leaf, but the buds are green, and sap pushes its way through the branches. A few early flowers glow in the grassy meadows near the river. "Nauvoo the Beautiful" is only three years old; yet it is a thriving city, well planned, well built, with sturdy two-story houses of brick and frame, with churches and stores, with blacksmith shops and shoe shops, and a busy harbor at the river's bend, where boats from down the great river come to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World. The shining walls of a temple rise from the gentle slopes of Mulholland Street. Nauvoo in western Illinois, Nauvoo looking west toward the far frontier, Nauvoo, itself a pioneer town, seems isolated from the world. And yet it is a part of the new America—the strong, new America reaching out to the West. This year of 1842 is a time when many groups of people in many places look upon a new era wherein the corridors of the future seem to
160 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be lighted with the lamps of progress. John Tyler, an able and independent Whig from Virginia, is President of the United States. It is two years before Morse's electric telegraph will flash across the country that wonderful message—"What. Hath God Wrought!" It is three years before the annexation of Texas to the Union. It is the year of the establishment of the boundary line between the United States and Canada. "Oregon" and "California" are magic words, although, as yet, no great wagon trains have passed beyond the Rockies. About one hundred miles to the southeast of Nauvoo, in Springfield, the state capital, lives the "Little Giant", Stephen A. Douglas, twenty-nine. Years old, a friend of the Mormons, and the foremost orator in Illinois. In the same. Town, Abraham Lincoln, a rising young lawyer who has served two terms in the state legislature, is looking forward to his marriage with Mary Todd. 1842 in Nauvoo, Illinois! Hundreds of missionaries have been sent out "into the field" to carry the Gospel message; the baptismal font in the temple has been completed; the streets of Nauvoo are lengthening out into the prairie.
IN the Nauvoo Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead, the "sisters" have come to hear the words of the Prophet. If we could roll back the shadows of nearly a hundred years, we could see these women sitting there in the lodge room. They are about to hear and' speak words that will be long remembered. They stand on the threshold of a new day, ready a to initiate a message that will echo down the years. If we could roll back the curtain of the years, we could see Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet, tall and queenly with dark hair and large dark eyes. A woman of invincible strength and thoughtful kindness, the Prophet's wife is a leader among the women. If we could see the sisters as they were that day, we could see Bathsheba Smith, only nineteen, and the youngest woman present. She is the wife of the Prophet's cousin, George Albert Smith. She has been married less than a year. Her dark eyes and white, oval face are very beautiful. And here is Eliza R. Snow, sister of Lorenzo Snow. She is a gifted and lovely woman with thoughtful eyes and a sweet, firm mouth. Her gift of poetry is a blessing to the Saints, and there have been very few tragedies here in Nauvoo that have not been made less bitter by the comforting words of her pen; there have been few holidays and celebrations that have not been made more gay by the joyful verses of Eliza R. Snow. She seems to feel the pulse of the city, and she knows the hearts of men and women and finds in her own heart an echo of the strivings of these people for a more perfect life on earth and a greater glory after death. In this room in Nauvoo, here where there is expectancy and eager quietness, we find Sarah M. Cleveland. She has been a true friend to the Prophet and his family. In that tragic time when Emma, with hundreds. Of others, had been driven from their homes in Missouri, at a time when the Prophet had for many months been a prisoner in a dark and desolate jail, it was Sarah Cleveland, in Quincy, who opened her home to Emma and the children. The Prophet, when he was finally reunited with his family and had moved to Nauvoo, selected a lot for the Clevelands just across the street from his own home. The two families know that loyalty and friendship are precious, and Sarah Cleveland is ready to do her part for the new Society. Wherever there is work to be done or service to be rendered, in that place we may expect to find Elizabeth Ann Whitney. She is only forty-one years old, and yet she is the oldest of all the women present. For twenty years she has been married to Newel K. Whitney, a man of thrift and energy, who had accumulated considerable property and owned a store in Kirtland, Ohio, when the Prophet and Emma moved there in the bleak February of 1831. Elizabeth Ann is a noted cook and housekeeper, a good seamstress, and a kind friend. For years she has been a true "Mother in Israel," and now, here in Nauvoo, she is ready to help other women learn to meet the crises of life as she has done during the trying years of the westward movement of the Church. Other women present, making eighteen in all, are: Phoebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Leonora Taylor Phoebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 161
Sarah M. Kimball Sophia Robinson Sophia R. Marks On this eventful day, an open Bible lies on the pulpit in this historic room. The following lines are found written on a scrap lying on the open Bible: "Oh, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be, Amen. With the sword and the word of truth defend Thou them, so mote it be! Amen."
THE first part of the minutes of that Relief Society session were recorded by Elder Willard Richards and the last part by Eliza R. Snow, who was that day elected secretary. These minutes are words precious to us today, for they give interesting and important details of what happened on that first birthday of a great organization. In his neat and meticulous writing, Elder Richards took down the names of those present: Joseph Smith, the Prophet, John Taylor, Willard Richards, and the names of the women. Elder John Taylor was called to the chair by President Smith, and the stirring words of a song floated out of the windows on the springtime air: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning... The latter-day glory begins to come forth... ' The voices are clear and strong, and the echoes ring to the streets where passers-by stop to listen, and children playing in the yards pause with upturned faces. The last words of the song die away. Then Joseph Smith addresses the group, "... To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community..." He then suggested the propriety of electing a presidency. Sister Whitney arose and presented the name of Mrs. Emma Smith as president of the Society. Sister Packard seconded the motion, and it was carried unanimously. The new president, by the first act of her office, selected Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as counselors. One may read in the record of how pleased the Prophet was at the election of his wife to this high office. "President Joseph Smith read the revelation to Emma from the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at the time the revelation was given to expound the Scriptures to all; and to teach the female part of the community, and not she, alone, but others may attain to the same blessing." The Prophet then read the first verse of the Second Epistle of John: "The Epistle of John the elder unto the elect lady... Whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth." The explanation was given that Emma was truly an "elect" lady, for she had now been elected to preside. Elder John Taylor laid his hands upon the head of Emma Smith and blessed her that she might be a mother in Israel "and look to the wants of the needy, and be a pattern of virtue, and possess all the qualifications necessary for her to stand and preside and dignify her office, to teach the females those principles requisite for their future usefulness". The program of the meeting was carried out with order and earnestness, and as soon as the new president of the Society took the chair, she proceeded with the selection of a name for the group. After considerable friendly discussion, this name was chosen — "THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY OF NAUVOO". Counselor Cleveland expressed her thoughts briefly, sincerely. "We design to act in the name of the Lord—to relieve the wants of the distressed and do all the good we can." Eliza R. Snow, with her eyes steady and clear and her voice firm and measured, addressed the ladies: "As daughters of Zion we should set an example to all the world rather than confine ourselves to the course which has been heretofore pursued." Enthusiasm spread from woman to woman. Here was opportunity and here was development. A group of women working together could do more than could ever be accomplished by each individual working separately. Back of each woman would be the strength and the wisdom and the spirituality of all. "We are going to do something extraordinary," said President Emma Smith. "When a boat is stuck on the rapids with a multitude of Mormons on board we shall consider that a loud call for relief. We expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls." The Prophet had further words to say and an example to give: "I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages, and all who shall hereafter be admitted into this Society must be free from censure and received by vote."
ELIZA R. SNOW was elected secretary, and Elvira A. Coles was appointed treasurer. The new officers began at once to exercise the duties of their positions. One began taking minutes and the other to accept donations. The fund for the relief of the poor was initiated at this very first meeting. The Prophet said, "What I do hereafter for charity I shall do through this Society." He then offered $5.00 in gold to begin the funds of the institution. Some of the women had brought money with them, not much money, for practically everyone in Nauvoo was poor; it had taken nearly everything they had to build new homes and secure materials for the building of the temple. Yet, these first Relief Society members thought of their calling—to help the poor and distressed—and they contributed what they could. Elvira Coles wrote down the amounts: Sarah M. Cleveland............ $2.50 Sarah M. Kimball..............1.00 Pres. Emma Smith............ 1.00 Coun. E. A. Whitney........ 50 Elder Richards "appropriated to the funds of the Society" the sum of $1.00 and Elder Taylor donated $2.00. There was no delay in beginning the practical work of the Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 163
"Mrs. Merrick is a widow," said President Emma Smith. "She is industrious, performs her work well. Therefore she should be recommended to the patronage of such as wish to hire needlework done. Those who hire widows must be prompt to pay. As some have defrauded the laboring widow of her wages, we must be upright and deal justly." Elder Taylor then arose: "My heart is much gratified in seeing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo," he said. "My heart rejoices when I see the most distinguished characters stepping forth in such a cause, which is calculated to bring into exercise every virtue and give scope to the benevolent feelings of the female heart. I rejoice that this institution is organized according to the law of Heaven... I rejoice to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner. I pray that the blessings of God and the peace of Heaven may rest on this institution henceforth." Long remembered words! The Relief Society was organized. The words were said, and perhaps the Prophet was the only one who knew how far the work would spread, how the words: would be like a seed growing into a tree with many branches.
Editor's Note: In preparing this article the author has used facts obtained through the research of Mrs. Anthony Tarlock. The names of the eighteen original members are spelled the same as in the Relief Society Handbook.
My Relief Society Tapestry By Mary Grant Judd
HAVE you ever stood in some museum before a particularly fine example of old tapestry and marveled at the patience, skill and artistry responsible for the finished piece? That is the way I feel as I contemplate the history and accomplishments of the National Woman's Relief Society, which in 1942 will celebrate its one-hundredth anniversary. I seem to see, in colors that will never fade, a beautiful work of art which countless hands have taken one hundred years to create. My Relief Society tapestry is very real to me, and I hope it will become real to you, so that with the General Board you will look eagerly forward toward being a participant in the 1942 centennial observance. Let me tell you a little of the fascinating history of "hand-woven pictured cloth", as tapestry is technically spoken of, before I show you my Relief Society tapestry. In the time of the Renaissance, homes were not warm nests with central heating plants as they are today. They were great affairs, stone inside as well as out, and heated no more than an open fire can heat. The winter wind whistled insinuatingly over the shoulders of the vassals who sat against the walls; it whined through the cracks of doors as it blew fresh from snowy reaches upon the lords of the great halls as they reclined in their hours of ease. Some warm and cozy protector was needed; something of gay color, of pictorial interest was desired, even demanded. And so, to answer this need, the big hanging tapestry was invented. Huge looms were constructed, and with great courage craftsmen inaugurated an art whose future importance they could not possibly foresee. Artists were pressed into service who painted beautifully colored canvases for weavers to translate into pictures made of wool and silk and metallic thread. Old tapestry colors were like richest tints of autumn, and the stories they depicted were tender, appealing, human. Now there was warmth and beauty in the dwellings. Weaving of tapestries became so important that in the middle ages there was never a big town that did not have as its two most imposing buildings the cathedral and the cloth house. Almost as much labor and taste were expended on the one as on the other. Incredible pains were taken to see that material and workmanship were of the best. No one was allowed to work on a tapestry
TAPESTRY PICTURE
THE tapestry pictured on the opposite page was recently completed by Margaret Lyman Schreiner, daughter of Elder Richard R. Lyman and President Amy Brown Lyman. It is 3x3½ feet in size and is a reproduction of a Gothic tapestry done in heroic size which now hangs in the Cluny museum in Paris. In this comparatively small piece there are 158,400 stitches,
166 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
who had not first served an apprenticeship of at least fifteen years, and the pieces were so large that sometimes as high as eighty weavers would work on one piece. Ten thousand different tints were at their disposal, which had taken two years to dye before the actual work commenced. Like the first making of tapestry, it was to answer a definite need to make life a brighter, happier place that the Relief Society was called into being by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Eliza R. Snow, first secretary and second president of the Organization, wrote: "The first winter after the Society was organized was exceedingly cold and severe. Many, in consequence of exposure and hardship in their expulsion from the state of Missouri and the unhealthiness of the climate of Nauvoo, had been reduced by sickness to destitution, and had it not been for the timely aid of the Female Relief Society, would have suffered very much, and probably some would have perished."
THE weave of tapestry is a very simple one and done entirely by hand. The first step is to set out on a loom, to the desired width of the fabric, a series of parallel threads called the warp. This makes the background, and so the threads must be of sturdy material such as wool, linen, or cotton. The weft threads, of brightly colored wool, silk or even shining gold metallic thread, form the pattern and are thrown under and over with unvarying regularity. To me, it is the visiting teachers and the many other devoted members of our organization who go quietly and deftly about helping their fellow men, with no thought of praise or honor to themselves, who have set the warp of our Relief Society tapestry. Before being qualified to commence the work, they have served an apprenticeship to Life, the great teacher, and the apprentice shop has been their own homes. Just as the marvelous old tapestries could not have been created without their supporting looms, so we depend upon the direction of the Priesthood, which stands, and always has, ready to support us in our efforts. The story of our Relief Society tapestry, which the weft threads form, is depicted in varying hues, and many characters stand out against historical backgrounds. The figure of Emma Smith comes first, surrounded by her officers and the other women who constituted the charter members of the Organization. A lovely, meandering river is woven into this part of the tapestry; homes surrounded by gardens and vineyards are to be seen, and the fabric of the women's dresses shows threads of silk intermingled with the wool. In the distance, the towers of a half completed temple rise; but dark clouds partly obstruct our view of the edifice, and throughout the whole scene sombre shades predominate, suggesting that the greatest tragedy the Church has known stalked in the wake of the organization of the Relief Society. In the person of Eliza R. Snow, as true a saint as any that ever graced a medieval pattern, our story centers next. In her hand she holds the original and invaluable records of the Relief Society which she has carefully guarded and preserved and brought across the western desert. The Woman's Exponent, forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, is to be seen. Sage brush, crude log cabins, Indian faces, and the tramping feet of Johnston's Army make the background; and there is a primitive looking engine which signifies the coming of the railroad. Intermingled with all these are to be seen the old Deseret Hospital and granaries which already are being stored against a future need. Emma Smith's face is no longer to be seen, but two of the original group, Bathsheba W. Smith and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, stand beside Eliza R. Snow. Seven other women, Zina D. H. Young, Jane S. Richards, M. Isabella Horne, Emmeline B. Wells, Elizabeth Howard, Phoebe Woodruff and Sarah M. Kimball complete the group. And are those silken threads mingled with the homespun of their dresses? Yes, for under Eliza R. Snow's administration, the manufacture of silk was started in the valley. Zina D. H. Young, in very deed a prophetess and ministering angel, is the next prominent figure in the tapestry, and the colors now brighten. When Bathsheba W. Smith comes upon the scene, all is colorful and lovely. Emmeline B. Wells, a dainty dresden figure yet with rare intelligence and the moral strength of tempered steel, rightfully holds a position of unusual prominence.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 167
She is followed by Clarissa S. Williams whose spirituality and affability radiate from her. Then we see our own dear Louise Yates Robison whose life is an open book to all, whose activities as president need not be enlarged upon here. And now under the guidance of Amy Brown Lyman new scenes of interest and beauty will be woven into the Relief Society tapestry.
WE look forward to 1942 with eagerness and enthusiasm. A glorious centennial awaits us. Before us will be hung a tapestry of great worth, one whose weaving has required the skill and talents of earth's noble women. As we reverently view it, the glorious patterns of the past will call forth our sincere admiration and appreciation. The strength and beauty which is ours because of one hundred years of worthy endeavor will arouse our deepest gratitude and give us courage to meet whatever tomorrow may bring. With faces set resolutely toward the future, a new determination will come to us to do our part in an organization which will wield an ever increasing influence for good. The occasion should be a rich experience in the life of every member, stimulating her to go forward and create for her successors patterns of enduring worth.
Progress Under the Direction of the Priesthood By Marianne C. Sharp
THE Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is different from every other woman's organization in the world; for it was organized at the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith who stands at the head of this the Last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The great inspirational and educational influence which this society has wielded, and does wield over its members, would be impossible had it not continued to be guided and advised by the Priesthood of God. It is the oldest auxiliary of the Church, and on March 17 of this year will celebrate its ninety-eighth birthday. Before its organization in Nauvoo, the women of the Church had not functioned as an entity, although in Kirtland they had banded together to aid in building the Kirtland Temple. By 1842, however, many of the sisters in Nauvoo desired a society. They drew up some by-laws which they showed to the Prophet. He told them he had been considering the matter of an organization for them for some time and that his plans were much greater than any they had in mind at that time. On March 17 he called together a few women and instituted the Relief Society. From that time on, the Relief Society, primarily an organization for service, has functioned under the direction of the Priesthood, which embodies in itself the ultimate in service. About six weeks after its organization, the Prophet gave these directions, among others, to the sisters: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth."* How wonderfully that prophecy is being fulfilled! How grateful are we, more than tongue can express, for the great progression which the turning of the key in our behalf has resulted in for women.
DUE to the persecutions and scattering of the Saints following the martyrdom of the Prophet and the subsequent journey West, the Relief Society, as such, was inactive for nearly ten years. In 1853, however, a beginning in Utah was made to form organizations in the wards, but not until after the Johnston Army incident were permanent organizations established. The Priesthood again came forward in its behalf in 1866 when President Brigham Young recommended that there be Relief Society organizations in all the wards and branches. He gave to Eliza R. Snow, that wonderful *History of the Church, Joseph Smith, Vol. IV, page 607. woman whom the Prophet Joseph once called "our well-known and talented poetess", the mission of assisting the bishops in this great organizing work. Again in 1877, President Young directed the further growth and expansion of the Relief Society when he instituted the stake work in Weber Stake. Later, at the direction of President John Taylor, Eliza R. Snow was nominated to be the president of all the Relief Societies, which was the beginning of the General Board movement. Thus, we see, the stages of our growth have been directed by the Priesthood. When the Prophet Joseph "exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in the faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead the people," he gave the rule by which all the women of our Church should live. There is greatest joy in that home in which the wife honors the Priesthood held by her husband and respects his judgment in righteousness. There is greater progress in that ward in which the Relief Society president respects and obeys the judgment of her bishop, than in one in which there may not be full obedience. This same principle holds true for the Church as a whole. The Church goes forward the farthest and carries out the will of the Lord most completely when the General Relief Society (and the other auxiliaries as well) gives full and unstinting obedience to the General Authorities of the Church. In accordance with these instructions, given nearly a hundred years ago, but still bearing their original force, for they are true and truth does not change, the Relief Society stands ready and anxious from its smallest unit to its entire membership to heed and obey any request given by those in authority in the Church. Probably the last formal instructions are those contained in a letter from the First Presidency dated September 30, 1937. In this letter, thanks and appreciation are extended to the Relief Society as a whole for its efforts in the Church Security Program, but it is urged that better teamwork be used within each ward that the great objective may be realized of helping each individual family to help itself. In these the last days, concerning which so many prophecies have been uttered, none of us knows what dark and trying times may be ahead; but whatever may come, let us remember these words of our Prophet to us, "Though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and the hands hang down, we must not retrace our steps; there must be decision of character, aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us." May the Relief Society ever merit through its continued obedience to authority these blessings of heaven; may it always faithfully perform its allotted part in the great plan of salvation.
Power In Numbers By Rae B. Barker
THE same fundamental elements are present in a single drop as in a great body of water. Tiny drops of water become a great power when enough of them unite and travel the same course. They make first a streamlet, then a growing tributary, and finally a mighty river— a source of great potential power. Though the potential power in water, and the potential power in electricity, is always present, it becomes a positive force only when it is harnessed and directed toward useful purposes; in other words, when it is organized. Organization is imperative for progress in any situation where great numbers of people are affected. In humanitarian and social fields the average one-man power is about as effective as a garden hose would be in fighting a forest fire. The story of Dr. Semmelweis' lifetime fight against child-bed fever illustrates the tragically helpless position of a public benefactor struggling alone. The effective strength of organized power was demonstrated when later the same battle was taken up and won by the concerted efforts of many, directed to a common purpose. Jesus said, "Where two or three are met in my name, there will I be also." Latter-day Saint Relief Society women are gathered in villages, towns and great cities extending over a large part of the world. Surely a vital force for good is at work when so many thousands of honest-hearted women meet in His name, with a sincere desire to know His gospel. Unquestionably, He will bless and strengthen our united efforts to understand and to live its eternal truths; to serve, to uplift, to love one another, and to raise life to its highest level for ourselves and others. We live in many countries. Various languages are spoken among us. Our styles of dress may differ distinctly. We prepare food under widely varied conditions. We measure our learning by different yardsticks, and we stand at different levels on the ladder of progress. But our likenesses bind us in an enduring bond of unity. Our hearts burn with the same basic desires. Together we are moving toward a common goal, which is a sure knowledge of our Eternal Father and the spread of His plan of life. Alike we have experienced faith and testimony, have known the joy of compassionate service and peace in spiritual growth through Relief Society work. We are unified by our possession of fundamental truths which are of great worth to all people.
BROUGHT forth in the "fullness of times" by divine inspiration, this great organization affords development for the individual within the group, approaching a fullness of stature mentally and spiritually; this, however, if its comprehensive program is used to its fullest extent. It is designed to meet the needs and interests of all women who hunger for knowledge of eternal values. The hand of fellowship goes out to every Latter-day Saint woman—to mothers, grandmothers, brides; to all women of noble character. We recall again, the strength of the Organization lies in the number it serves and likewise in the number who serve it. Included in the Prophet's early instruction to the Society are these valuable pointers for successful growth: 1. The necessity for high standards for membership. He suggests that we may safely increase at a rapid rate if we use care to invite "women of good report" and then practice kindliness, love, mercy and forbearance toward them. 2. Be willing to concede personal opinions for the greater good of all. 3. Loyally support each other, also the program of the Organization. 4. Recognize that in all organized bodies appear little evils and weaknesses which, left unguarded, tend to undermine its strength; for instance, the indulgence in trivial or unsound criticism. In this connection the Prophet said, "Put a double watch over the tongue. No organized body can exist without this at all." Then follows this pertinent observation: "Little foxes spoil the vines, little evils do the most injury to the Church." This remark would fall in the class of little evils: "The older women no longer have a place in Relief Society." Though spoken thoughtlessly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 171 and without analysis, when it is echoed and re-echoed its demoralizing effects spread as does a contagion. It is important that all support the original policy of the Society, which was and still is, a place for all. Better to say: "Age for experience, wisdom to season, faith to sustain; youth for imagination to create, courage to venture, for a thirst to know and energy to do big things; together we can multiply Relief Society's strength." 5. The spirit of sisterhood should characterize our organization. We must rekindle and feed the spirit exhibited in a letter found in the early files. It read, "Now dearly beloved Sisters... Rally to this great movement with all thy zeal, intelligence and faithfulness..." There are two kinds of friendliness, personal and impersonal. The warm personal friendliness is an effective welding influence. The impersonal has little holding power. Our Father's blessings coupled with the foregoing safeguards will insure our progress. Looking back to Relief Society's head-waters, and following its course of growth and achievement, we are stirred by a keen desire to travel on with the rising stream. As our numbers steadily increase, Relief Society will, like the river fed by new rains, grow from strength to ever greater strength.
Relief Society Spiritually Strong By Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
SPIRITUAL strength was possessed by the Relief Society from its very inception, for that small group of eighteen women who met ninety-eight years ago in Nauvoo had already accepted the Gospel, which entailed a certain spiritual stamina on the part of each, and there was still persecution and sacrifice and other hardships to be endured for the sake of the truth. Then, too, the "desire to be united in a society for human service" was almost a guarantee that if this desire was to be realized and the betterment of humankind was to be carried out it would result in continued spiritual growth: In this society women were given additional means for development by the calling forth of powers possessed by them which might not have had an opportunity for such complete expression otherwise. The importance of rendering the type of service which was contemplated by these women is clearly told by Amulek, for. After admonishing the Zoramites to pray always and to follow the commandments continually he said further, "... Do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith. Therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross..." Hundreds of homes and thousands of people have been both materially and spiritually benefited by the ministrations of this great society through the years. One of the best ways of experiencing spiritual growth is to aid our brother and sister. The Relief Society has clearly recognized that there is no one great thing that each can do and then do no more and attain spiritual strength, and so the members have been encouraged in numberless ways to perform various acts and kindnesses to humanity. The need at hand in the homes of the people determined the kind of help that was given. The spirit which has characterized that service has been the same which motivated Jesus as he "went about doing good". Women have carried with them in the performance of their duties "the fruits of the spirit—love, joy, peace, long suffering, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance," and these have been as benedictions in the homes. The thousands of women who have accepted positions of responsibility and leadership in some capacity within this organization has come a measure of growth according to their faithfulness. Many women can count their moment of greatest humility when they were called to serve. They have had to live closer to their Heavenly Father; they have had to pray oftener and more humbly to receive the needed inspiration, and because of this not only has their ability increased but their spirituality has grown. One of the significant ways in which this organization has offered spiritual strength to its membership is the contact for association with other worthy women in the Church. A knowledge of kinship in experience and a sharing of religious belief have contributed to the soul's growth. To have met with women who have traveled the journey before you is to have been spiritually enriched, and to have heard the testimony of others is to have strengthened your own and to have found the needed courage and faith to tackle the demands of daily life. Not only have the women themselves in their opportunities for development been benefited, but into each home where each has abided has gone a certain spiritual stimuli to benefit those within that home circle. It is impossible to measure the extent to which this has occurred, but no one can deny that it has taken place. With increased membership in the years to come, this society will accomplish even greater things. Women in the future will continue to lay hold on gifts which will go with them into eternity: increased knowledge of good, broader understanding of human nature, a greater testimony of the truth and a satisfaction that they have loved and served even the "least". It is reasonable to suppose that in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 173 the time yet to come women will find even greater avenues for organized service, increased opportunity for developing the capacity of leadership and enlarged association with splendid people. Tennyson has said that: "More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of." Relief Society women have wrought marvelous things by prayer and by faith, but closely allied to these has been works—the labor of the hand and heart. Just so long as people abide on the earth there will be needs to be met. Poverty is with people still, sickness seems always to be prevalent, death is ever present; but with a large group of women united in service to allay the pangs of suffering, who knows what faith they will kindle anew in the hearts of those to whom they minister. No one can measure the love they have created in the lives they have contacted, nor can any one estimate the love that will be engendered in the lives that shall be touched in the future. And looking even farther forward is the promise that "eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him."
The Cultural Strength of Relief Society By Anna Boss Hart
ON July 30, 1932, it was my privilege to be one of the 105,000 people who stood in the Olympic Stadium to sing the National Anthem and to witness the Olympic torch flame into being to signal the opening of the Games; while guns fired a salute, trumpets were heard and a cloud of white pigeons was released. The torch lighted the way of true sportsmanship and honor for the period of the Tenth Olympiad in Los Angeles. Fifty nations entered, and more than 1,500 athletes from all corners of the world filed past. The magnificent pageant of color and music and the achievement in the stirring anthem will never be forgotten. The inscription engraved below the torch was: "The important thing in the Olympic Games is not the winning but taking part... The essential thing is not conquering but fighting well." Even a greater spectacle might be witnessed if we could get a glimpse of the 80,000 women in our church who also represent the nations of the world. I like to imagine another Flame of Beauty, even greater, a torch which was lighted by the Prophet Joseph Smith nearly a hundred years ago. Probably some of the precious advice which was given to the women of our church at the time of the organization of the Relief Society might have been summarized in this inscription, "The important thing is taking part and fighting well." I like to think of this great Relief Society Olympiad going on for nearly a century and increasing in strength and numbers during all of that time. These women of our church would also represent the greatest of strength but not the strength of "brawn and sinew", not trained physically for world competition, but cultural strength. These women would represent one of the greatest of women's organizations in the world. Mormon women have been participating for nearly a century and have achieved a cultural strength to be envied. Greater inspiration than that of earthly kings and rulers has been theirs, because they have been guided by God-inspired leaders. How have these women of Relief Society been trained? For ninety-eight years their organization has been one for service and cultural enrichment. The torch of Truth and Beauty is held high. Women receive cultural development through association with other good women and by being self-active. They are grateful, and "gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation; you do not find it among gross people." (Samuel Johnson) Culture seeks to do away with class distinction "to make the best that has been thought and known in the world current everywhere," to make all men live in an atmosphere of sweetness and light. Relief Society women are rich in a cultural inheritance. Through the varied educational programs of the organization, a love for the good and beautiful is cultivated. Beauty, a garden, a poem or a smile, gives us courage. It is true that "if you put poetry and music into life you will get poetry and music back a hundred fold; and if you put beauty into life... The (culture) it gives you will fill all your days and years with priceless intellectual and emotional rewards of beauty." (Albert Edward Wiggam) When the Prophet Joseph Smith said at one of those first meetings "and I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time", the foundation for great moments was laid. We feel we are near one of the greatest moments of all Relief Society history—almost at the peak of a hundredth anniversary. Each year finds us a little wiser, more tolerant, less impulsive, more deliberate and more prayerful. DURING the century of participation, women of our church have become acquainted with the world's best in word and deed. They have learned to love religion dearly, to enjoy new values and view wider realms in literature, to serve each other in home and community unselfishly. The educational features were left at first to the discretion of the local groups, and consisted of "testimony bearing, religious addresses and talks, readings, discussions; lessons in parliamentary procedure, especially prepared lectures and music." It is easy to believe that "leading women, among whom there were poets and *Relief Society Handbook, page 22. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 175 prophetesses, became fluent and powerful public speakers in those pioneer times." (Relief Society Handbook.) Now that we have a uniform course of study—Theology, Literature and Social Service, thousands of women can be reached every week. There is power in the feeling that Relief Society women in all parts of the world are receiving similar cultural training. Most Relief Society women are creative and find that there is time to do the little things and therefore do not cheat themselves. They try to make "each day distinguished by at least one thing well worth while." The Mormon Handicraft program is a credit to the vision of our leaders. Many women today enjoy handwork as did those of a few years ago who enjoyed the feel of making threads under the guidance of the wheel "by mind and hand". The capably handled Mormon Handicraft shop is a credit to the women of our church. Accurate workmanship is demanded. It strikes at the finer natures in us. In many a "heart's treasury" "Is the safe-kept memory Of a lovely thing." Women of the Relief Society find that they need not seek afar for beauty. They find that it glows in birds, in stars, in mountains' snows, the faces of children and sweet music. They have found that sometimes "Life's common deeds build all that saints have thought", and "Earth's deeds, well done, glow into heavenly light." (Minot Judson Savage) Since the beginning, the women of our Relief Society have been encouraged to love music and participate in it. One of the high shouts of praise should go to a "singing mother". No name could have been chosen more fittingly. Surely demonstrations like those given by our hundreds of singing mothers can inspire faith anew, and sincere "faith fills life with song". There are so many avenues for different types of creative work. The Eliza R. Snow (Relief Society) Memorial Prize Poem Contest, established in 1923, offers a reward to women of the organization for writing poems of merit. Many of us do not have the ability to write a poem, but when we read one our imagination is fired and we are stimulated often to our noblest thoughts and become creators of unexpressed poems. The greatest cultural guide in our great organization is the Relief Society Magazine, that friend who carries into our homes the cultural wealth of the educational and creative program and much more. It is indeed a stimulating spiritual companion with cheer and counsel for all. With Amy M. Rice, "Each day I joy in living, For someone's magic pen Will take me where I want to go Adventuring again." (R. S. Magazine, Jan., 1940) ANY organization which has as one of its aims "to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement" and another aim "to raise human life to its highest level", cannot fail. In 1942 the Relief Society torch will be brighter than ever. All energies will be turned to that great event. The progress of a century will be reviewed; the purposes of inspired leaders will be given; the power of a century will be realized; the culture of a century will be felt. The torch of Beauty, Truth and Spirituality is burning brightly now. Everyone is working for tomorrow, 1942. Tomorrow withholds nothing. "CULTURE has one great passion—the passion for sweetness and light. It has one even yet greater, the passion for making them prevail." "Culture is then properly described not as having its origin in curiosity, but as having its origin in the love of perfection: it is a study of perfection." Matthew Arnold.
Work and Business By Leda T. Jensen
"The first sure symptom of a mind in health Is rest of heart, and pleasure felt at home."
TO build a successful superstructure upon its foundation, the corner-stone of which is service, Relief Society must always incorporate in its program practical phases of living which will contribute to well rounded, integrated lives of the women of the Church. At the meeting of the Nauvoo Relief Society, September 2, 1843, it was proposed that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer as they did last winter". At the October 14th meeting it was proposed "that a sewing society be appointed that garments and bed coverings might be made and given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness". These were the initial movements of the Society in the interest of sewing for those in need, known today as Work and Business meetings. Sewing was the first concrete activity of the Relief Society, a practical means of following the advice of the Prophet when he outlined among other objectives "looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and administering to their wants". From the beginning until now, the program has grown and expanded to meet all the objectives outlined for the Society. We have fine courses of study, each one teaching us how to serve. The activities of Work and Business day give us opportunities to serve. When the point was reached in the wards that the supply of goods for the needy exceeded the demand, then members of the Relief Society were asked to turn their attention to the needs in their own homes and to strive to become more skillful, more efficient homemakers. Inventions, factory production and labor-saving devices have taken from the home many activities of pioneer life, but as long as family life exists, woman will be the homemaker. As long as we eat food, wear clothing, and have homes as places of shelter, someone will have to see that food is produced or purchased and prepared in the home, that clothing is made in the home or purchased ready-to-wear, and that after one fashion or another the home is furnished and decorated. In a rapidly changing world, which is making tremendous inroads upon the sphere of the family and the home, it is imperative that the homemaker be taught to recognize her position in the home and to apply all the knowledge she may gain concerning wiser management and better living to her home and family. It is one thing to obey the great commandment given man "to multiply and replenish the earth". It is quite another matter to wisely care for the children given us by our Heavenly Father. Many people have the idea that because woman is the natural mother of the race, that by nature also she knows all that is necessary to care for and train her children. Nothing could be further from the truth. Not instinct but 178 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE training enables us to keep our families well by proper feeding and health habits, to keep them properly and attractively clothed through a knowledge of clothing principles and the economic factors involved, and to keep them comfortable and happy in a well-cared-for, attractive home. No amount of personal development in things cultural will relieve us of those practical duties necessary for happy home life. "The Relief Society has kept in step with the march of progress, heeding the call for adjustment to new conditions, and meeting the needs of an expanding program. We must hold fast to the things which have been tried by experience and found valuable, and we must be ready to accept new ideas and principles which changing conditions make necessary. This is the law of development and advancement." AFTER nearly one hundred years, the Relief Society organization feels sure that on Work and Business day mothers and daughters of Zion may taste the sweetness of service through that part of the program devoted to work for the needy, and may increase their knowledge of what to do and how to do to make their homes more livable and to spend more wisely the household budget. No one should sit idly by because of lack of desire or ability to do. Relief Society should continue to afford opportunities for its members to learn to quilt, sew, knit, crochet, and to participate in other forms of handicraft. Many psychologists agree that women should cultivate and practice diversional forms of activity, preferably handicraft, to counteract the monotony and strain of occupational and family life. The use of small muscles involved in handicraft is important in a well-rounded program of recreation and training for leisure time. If normal, healthy, useful citizens of tomorrow are to come from the homes of today, mothers must train their children in the practical as well as the cultural values of life. Schools and special groups may help, but the home is the natural laboratory where most of our habits and attitudes are formed, and the wise, teachable, well prepared mother may do more than anyone else to assist her children along the way to abundant living. These are the aims of Work and Business. We must keep before us the objectives of this day to appreciate the program from its beginning to its present widening and expanding form. Let us try to catch the vision so that 1942 will find us with the right attitude toward this phase of the work and with a desire to participate in whatever program is offered, believing that all phases of the Relief Society program, if properly understood and incorporated in our lives, will contribute to a well-integrated personality and a more abundant life.
Relief Society As A Community Builder By President Amy Brown Lyman
WOMEN have always been great and important factors in community building. Pioneer women, for example, with their indomitable courage and determination, worked side by side with their husbands and sons in blazing trails, in founding and developing new settlements and in extending the borders of civilization. Women everywhere are leaders in helping to inaugurate movements and to establish institutions and agencies for the benefit of humanity. History is replete with the struggle and achievement of brave and courageous women. Relief Society women from the beginning have been public-spirited and social-minded. Their influence has been felt in frontier pioneering and in all phases of progressive effort, both in rural and urban communities. While their organization was founded primarily for philanthropic and charitable purposes, one of the early supplementary assignments appropriately given to them was "to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community". Accordingly, wherever branches of the Church have been located, Relief Society women have been alert to community needs and active participants in community activities and development. Like workers in other family welfare agencies, Relief Society women early discovered for themselves that successful family welfare work depends in large measure upon the social and economic resources available in the community. This knowledge, fortified by study and research, gives them an understanding of the inter-dependence of individual and community betterment, broadening their interest in the community and helping them to be intelligent, helpful, cooperative citizens. They realize that corrective work for individuals often points to the need for preventive measures for the benefit of the whole community. For example, surgical operations emphasize the need for hospital facilities readily available to the community; a case or two of typhoid fever is often a signal that something must be done about the water supply in order to prevent an epidemic; and the lack of remunerative employment for heads of families arouses the interest of community-minded individuals in employment problems. Thus, Relief Society women are interested in the home, the school, the church; in playgrounds and recreation work; in hospitals, clinics and health centers; in home and community economics. THROUGHOUT the many years since its organization, the Relief Society has carried forward a continuous and varied program in community betterment and welfare. Notable among early activities were: the suffrage movement for the purpose of giving woman a voice in public affairs; seri-culture, established in the interest of home industry 180 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and employment; grain-storing against need; women's cooperative stores to facilitate the exchange of domestic commodities; health work, including courses in nursing and obstetrics and the establishment of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake City (the first L. D. S. Hospital and the second in the state of Utah); erection of Relief Society halls for organization meetings and socials; temperance and peace education. Among the later movements which have found expression in actual service to the community are: definite studies in community organization and resources; civic-pride campaigns; and a continuation of health work with emphasis on public health and sanitation, child health and maternal and infant care, coordinated in most communities with newly developed state and federal programs. Deeply interested in maternal and child welfare, the organization cooperated whole-heartedly with state and federal agencies, first under provisions of the former Sheppard-Towner Act, and later of the present Social Security Act. A few typical, specific examples of Relief Society activity in the interest of public health are cited: In one locality, through the efforts of Relief Society women, a pure water supply was obtained for the entire community; in several counties Relief Society women cooperated financially with other agencies in supporting in each of their respective counties a public health nurse or a clinic for dental care; in another area, drinking fountains were placed in ten public school buildings by the Relief Societies. In one state the Society assisted in the establishment of 150 health centers and four county health units, in many instances contributing funds for the work. Cabinets and chests, well equipped with articles for loan or rental, primarily for maternity cases, were set up in practically all of the ward or stake Relief Societies; a first-class maternity hospital established in one stake in 1924 is still being operated successfully. Funds for the health work are derived chiefly from the interest on a half-million dollar trust fund owned jointly by the local Societies and built up over many years by the actual production or gleaning of wheat by Relief Society women. Through special civic-pride campaigns much has been accomplished along public health lines, general sanitation, and community beautification. An important and constructive piece of work in which Relief Society played an important part was the establishment in Utah of the State Training School for the Feebleminded. In a course of study on Mental Hygiene the care and protection of unfortunate children who never grow up was one of the subjects considered. Through this study and research and through actual contact with afflicted homes, Relief Society women became aware of the pressing need for an institution for care of the feeble-minded. As a result, they aroused community interest, circulated petitions to the legislature and were largely instrumental in the establishment of this state institution. With the promotion of community health, social welfare, and education as its objective, the Relief Society has established one fund to stimulate creative writing, and six educational loan funds—two in the field of nursing, three in the interest of social service, and one for higher education for women. These varied activities for the betterment of the community are landmarks by the way against a background of the regular fundamental functions of the organization in family welfare, education and spiritual development for its individual members. The achievements of Relief Society women, both in public life and in the home, stand today as a monument to the power of their faith and service and as a challenge to the coming generations.
SPRING IS HERE
The raindrops tapping on the ground Say: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" The robins nesting all around Chirp: "Spring is here! Spring is here " And boys with marble, top, and kite, The string a-tug with all its might, Shout: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" And every bud a-top the trees Sighs: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" Soft winds the tangled branches tease With: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" And romping girls with skipping rope Sing gaily with the happy hope That: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" When Winter wraps his cloak to go, Spring is here! Spring is here! The farmer in his field calls: "Ho! Spring is here! Spring is here!" While fleecy clouds go drifting by, The lazy sun wakes up to cry: "Spring is here! Spring is here!" —Beatrice Rordame Parsons.
Inheritance of Love By Olive W. Burt
IT was the sunlight striking the red glints in Jimmy Weston's curls as he raised his face to kiss his mother goodby that brought that sick feeling to Jerry. For the first time in his eleven years he felt absolutely alien and alone; for the first time he knew what it meant to be adopted. The boys were standing among their bedrolls and knapsacks, waiting for the bus to take them to camp. It was the first venture away from home for most of them, and their parents were all there to bid them goodby. Jerry's own mother and father stood beside him, smiling as if it was rather hard to keep smiling that way, but as if they wouldn't stop for anything. Mom and Dad! They had always stood by, jolly, full of fun. And Jerry, finding it hard to look at that determined smile on their faces, had let his eyes wander over the other boys. And then he had seen the sunlight on Jimmy's hair. Jimmy had raised his face, and his mother had bent over him. A shaft of sunlight coming through the high station window struck their heads, and Jerry noticed what he had never noticed before: Jimmy's hair and his mother's were exactly alike! They curled in the same soft way over white foreheads; they had the same bright red glints in the sun. Involuntarily, Jimmy's eyes turned to his own father and mother. Their heads were bright and crisp and golden. Jerry had known and loved this brightness all his life; he had never before contrasted it with his own dark locks. With a new awareness, Jerry looked at the other boys clustered in the waiting room with their parents. There was Billy Snow with his dad. Yes, they stood in exactly the same position with feet far apart and one shoulder thrown back in a peculiar slant. And Red Bronson, lanky and stooped. He stood between the father whose build he had inherited and the mother whose fiery locks topped his freckled face. And Lester Willis—and John Bowers. Jerry blinked rapidly and turned his eyes from the boys to the luggage at his feet. His mother, noticing the blink and the movement, bent swiftly and kissed Jerry. "We'll be up next week-end," she assured him, her own voice trembling a little. "It will be here before you know it." And his dad said with determined cheerfulness, "Lucky fella! Leaving me with all the lawn mowing and dandelion digging to do alone. But I'll be up. Wouldn't miss it. Want to see how you're getting along with that backstroke I taught you. Don't forget that I expect that stroke to win in the water meet." Jerry smiled back. "It will, Dad," he said confidently, and almost forgot the new emptiness in his heart. The bus came at last, and the noisy boys crowded into their places, destroying any threatening homesickness with laughing and pushing and shouting. Then they were away, waving to their parents; turning already toward the thought of the fun ahead. But Jerry sat back in his corner, away from the others. He had something to straighten out in his mind, something that kept prickling at his consciousness. Being adopted was different from just being born into a family—he had always known that—but now he knew how it was different. It was funny he had never thought of it before. He had always been a little proud that he was adopted. Mother and Dad had told him all about it: How they had gone around looking for just the baby they wanted; how they had chosen him from all the hundreds of little fellows they had seen, because he just suited them; how he had fulfilled all their eager dreams. And when the inevitable taunts had come at school, "You're only adopted!" he had been ready with a confident, "You're only borned! Your mother had to take you, whether she wanted you or not, but my mother and daddy chose me!" And it had ended there. He had been so sure of himself, the taunt had had no sting, so the others had soon forgotten to use it. The funny thing was, he reflected now, that he had really felt that way. He had felt that he was specially loved and desired; he had been perfectly content and not a bit envious of the others. He belonged to his family just as completely as they did to theirs. That's what he had always thought and felt. Till today. Today that shaft of light coming through the dusty window had pointed like a sharp finger to the truth of the matter. He did not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 183 belong to his family at all; it wasn't even his family. He was a strange, dark little boy who had been befriended by these jolly people. They loved him; oh, he knew that too surely to doubt it; but they didn't belong to him; he could never really belong to them. The joking of the boys and the sound of the motor blended into a monotonous repetition of that thought: "You're not a part of them; you never were. You're not a part of them; you never were." WHEN they arrived at camp, the director looked at the silent Jerry and, seeing the misery etched on his dark face, thought, "Homesick little devil. It's hard on that kind the first time they leave home. I'll have to keep an eye on him." So he assigned Jerry to cabin D with Wes Gorlin, the best leader in camp, in charge. Jerry took to camp life like an Indian. He loved it. He loved the routine and the system and directed play. But best of all, he loved the swimming. Wes was a marvel at instructing, and the boys in cabin D were all excellent swimmers. They were pretty sure that they could win the camp trophy at the season-end races. Their nearest rival was cabin A; but cabin A had no Jerry Weiss, and on Jerry the boys pinned their hopes of triumph. Jerry went into everything whole-heartedly. It was not only that the lonely feeling was eased when he was busy; he was naturally adapted to this sort of thing and really enjoyed it. Perhaps the release from worry that came with activity made him a little more eager to try things, but he would have tried them anyway. 184 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Both Wes and the camp director could see that the boy was having real fun, and yet that persistent shadow in his dark eyes had them worried. "I don't think he's actually homesick, chief," Wes said one day. "But he does seem worried about something—or rather, sad, quietly sad," and Wes laughed a bit shamefacedly at his diagnosis of Jerry's trouble. "I think it's plain, old-fashioned homesickness. Wait till his folks come up at the week-end. He'll break down and cry, and then he'll be a problem for a day or two; then he'll recover. He's too good a kid to let it down him." But when Jerry's parents visited camp, the director and Wes, watching with interest, could not interpret the boy's reaction. He was delighted to see his people; he was obviously proud of his big, jolly father, and he adored his mother. But there seemed an intangible wall between them. The boy didn't "go all the way" in yielding to the happiness of the occasion; and he didn't break down when they returned home. There was no change, so far as the men could see, in spite of the brief visit. "It didn't work, chief," Wes said after the parents had gone. "No, it's not homesickness, but I wish I knew what it is." "Is there anything he particularly likes to do?" asked the director. "Swimming!" Wes answered with enthusiasm. "The only time he loses that lonely look is when he is swimming." "Let him swim, then," advised the director. So Jerry swam, morning, noon, and night, perfecting the strokes his dad had taught him; gaining strength and speed toward his final contest. But often, especially at night, the thought of the sunlight on Jimmy's hair would come back like a blow, and he would lie pondering on the bond that must exist between two who were so obviously of each other. Then he began to wonder about his own father and mother, his real ones. Which one had been dark like him, his mother or his father, or both? From which had he inherited that peculiar cowlick on his forehead? And he went over his body, inch by inch, trying to imagine which parent had given him each distinctive mark.. Would his real mother have understood, without his ever telling her, how he felt now? Would she have known that this was not the regular homesickness, such as some of the other boys had suffered? And he felt an immense loneliness and loss, as if he stood alone in the world and always must stand alone. Those bright curls of Jimmy's gleaming against his mother's came to symbolize something rare and beautiful and precious—something he could never, never have. At such times he would turn his face to the pillow and nuzzle down in it, remembering his mother's fragrance and shutting the remembrance away deliberately, because he felt now that he should remember his real mother—but he couldn't. So at last he would fall asleep. THE best swimmer in cabin A, Jerry's bitterest rival in the coming races, was Lon Wilson, son of the cabin leader. Mr. Wilson and Jerry's father had been swimming rivals for years, first as boys and later in competing athletic teams in the city. Jerry knew that this was one reason his father took such an interest in the races. He had watched the banter between the two men as they stood watching the boys practice, and he knew that it meant something definite to his father to have him defeat Lon. And Jerry, watching Mr. Wilson instructing his son, seeing them swim together day after day, grew almost to hate the boy. When the father and son were out a little way, their sleek wet heads were indeterminable. Even when they were close at hand one had to look twice to tell which was father and which was son. And Jerry, in his new sensitiveness to such likenesses, found a bitter satisfaction in outdoing his rival. By the day of the water meet, when all the parents and their friends came to camp to see the demonstrations of the summer's work, capped by the races and the presentation of the trophies, Jerry was in perfect form. His speed and endurance had increased amazingly. The long hours of exercise, the friendly atmosphere, the freedom from stress, had somewhat dulled the ache that had come to camp with him; he faced the water contests an eleven-year-old, eager swimmer. They were stiff races, that day, and before Jerry entered the water for the final severe test, he stopped briefly beside his father. His dad stood there, big and ruddy, with his mother and several of their friends. They had brought their own car full RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 185 just to see Jerry race, and they knew many of the other parents whose boys were at the camp. Jerry's father dropped his hand affectionately on the boy's shoulder and gripped it harder than he meant to. "All set to win, son?" he asked. Jerry grinned, "You bet!" His mother's eyes shone with pride and encouragement. Once in the water, Jerry forgot everything but the race. The cries of the spectators, the glare of the sun on the water, the feeling of the boys straining close beside him, all blended into one dim element against which Jerry and the friendly water were in league. The little boy moved swiftly, surely, beautifully along the course. Calmly, he remembered all that had been taught him. There was no panic, no struggle; just smooth, sure movement. When he came up, finally, dripping and weary, the cheers that greeted his appearance assured him that he had not only won the trophy, but he had given a splendid exhibition, one that even the defeated team must admire. His father and mother rushed to him and hugged him close, wet as he was. He saw smiles—the whole sunlit beach seemed to be glittering with smiles. Jerry stood there panting and blinking and half grinning, when he saw Lon's father coming toward them—not grudgingly, but swiftly, cheerfully. He put one arm around the dripping boy and the other around Jerry's father. "Beautiful work, old boy!" he said enthusiastically to Jerry. Then turning to Mr. Weiss he laughed, "He's a chip off the old block, all right. 186 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE That back stroke of his—it's caused me many a sleepless night in the past—and now your son's inherited it to take every prize that comes his way. Lucky kid!" and with a pat of the wet shoulder he was gone, Jerry looked at his father—HIS father. The boy's eyes were shining, and Wes Gorlen and the camp director, coming up with the gleaming trophy, saw there was no hidden pain in those eyes, and thought the victory had meant more than they suspected to the boy.
THE HERALD By Merling D. Clyde
March, you're here again to woo us,— Frowns, and then your winning smile. By your petulance we know you; See the changeling through the guile.
Every smile you gaily bring us Only makes our hearts more glad. Not a frown you roughly toss us Ever makes our hearts grow sad.
Winter calls adieu through you, March; Summer sings a bright good-day. In transition you are precious. Romp, you merry Month, I pray.
You can't daunt us with your bluster Or your winds that wildly sing. Oh, we call your bluff, you herald. March, you bring to us the spring.
The Sunny Side of the Hill By Lella Marler Hoggan
OPEN THE WINDOWS
"The day will bring some lovely thing," I say it over each new dawn: "Some gay, adventurous thing to hold Against my heart when it is gone,"
And so I rise, and go to meet The day with wings upon my feet. —Grace Noll Crowell.*
HEAVEN is all around us here and now. Life is waiting each new day to greet us with gifts from every port of happiness. Music and laughter and wisdom come sparkling into our homes from the ends of the earth. In such a joyous world, why is it, we ask, that every one is not happy? Is there some secret formula that must be learned before a person can partake of this greatly desired blessing? Emerson turned his clouds inside out to show the silver linings, and Marden believed that a cheerful heart could make its own blue skies. Heaven does not discriminate between the just and the unjust in sending the sunshine and the shower. Happiness is not something that can be purchased with a coin and held fast in our two hands. Lincoln said that most of us are about as happy as we make up our minds to be. And we are assured by those who should know, that anyone who has the desire can learn the art of being glad. Each person defines happiness differently: To the child it is entertainment; to youth it is love; to age it is wisdom. Some persons tell us that security and achievement will bring us the desired blessing. Others declare that self-realization, living in harmony with one's highest ideals, will make for permanent satisfaction; while there are those who believe that one must attune his life to the purposes of the divine will if he would have peace of mind and lasting joy. In our search for happiness we must not forget the importance of keeping well. The old Greek ideal was to possess "a sound mind in a sound body". With such a heritage, it would not be difficult to reach the goal of our desire. Science has established the fact that bodily conditions affect mental functionings, and that bad emotions produce chemical changes in the body detrimental to life and health. Fear, anger, jealousy, every vicious emotion, has a bad effect on the system. While love, mirth, confidence, and all good emotions, tend to promote health and prolong life. Every condition that saps our energy or uses up our vitality needlessly is a menace to health and happiness and even to life itself. If we expect to gain permanent satisfaction from our efforts and to live prolonged, peaceful and happy lives, we must keep fit physically and mentally. Undesirable emotions may be controlled by the simple process of letting the good neutralize the bad. Two opposing emotions cannot rule the heart at the same time. It is our privilege to choose which ones we shall entertain. The pattern of our dreams, aye, our very destiny, depends upon this choice. For faith will banish fear; love will transmute hatred into brotherly kindness; courage will redeem cowardice, and mirth will laugh disaster out of countenance. IF we find that we are out of harmony with life, that we are at cross-purposes with ourselves, that we have missed the mark and lost the way, had we not better re-route our course? Why not try traveling on the sunny side of the hill for awhile. It is surprising what a transformation a little sunshine can make in a life. Let us open the windows wide, that the warmth and beauty of the sun's health-giving rays may enter. Also, let us open the windows of the soul, sweep down the cobwebs of discouragement and clear away the litter of distrust and suspicion. There are numberless ways of eliminating care and of bringing sunshine into the heart. Mirth and laughter are curative measures. If the reading of humorous books found a place on everyone's program, there would be fewer invalids and less sorrow. The Scriptures are an unfailing source of peace and comfort. Beautiful poetry should enrich the lives of young and old. Hymns and old sweet songs will save the dreariest day. Sing each one you select clear through, as if you were performing for an unseen listener. Possibly you will be. An occasional picture show, if carefully selected, is a most effective tonic. And no experience is more heartening and altogether more delightful for those needing a lift, than regular, earnest participation in the service of God and humanity. Whatever our trial may be, we need the comfort and help that comes from wholesome thinking and a conscience at peace with God and man. We need the warmth of spiritual. Sunshine; for sunshine heals the body, cheers the heart, and sweetens the soul. Everyone the world around is searching for happiness. And yet, what reception do we accord her when Joy comes knocking at our door? Do we give her a warm welcome and offer her the hospitality of our home, or does she find our shades drawn and our doors closed fast against her admittance? Have we failed to realize that she will not enter unless she is invited? After all; Joy is a lady—not a housebreaker. So if we would have the pleasure of her society we must receive her graciously. How often we close the door of happiness in our own faces. We isolate ourselves from our fellows and then wonder why we are alone and lonely. We build up a wall. Between ourselves and life and then lament because we are left outside. We have not learned to pay the price of happiness. We sometimes forget that we must give as well as receive, and that every position carries with it not only privileges and blessings but also responsibilities and obligations. Funds cannot be drawn from the bank unless we have first made a deposit. If we fail to sow the seed, nature will be unable to produce a harvest for us. We carry out of life no greater measure of joy than we bring to it. It is up to us to make today's effort pay for the fulfillment of tomorrow's dream. We are always putting off the quest for joy. Tomorrow or next week, we tell ourselves, we shall do the thing that will bring us happiness. After the rush is over, next year perhaps, we shall satisfy our heart's longing. But there are always numberless obligations nudging us, hurrying us on, motioning to us from around the corner. So we go along with the crowd, assuring ourselves that later on we shall have leisure to spare. We do not realize that we are living our lives right now. We must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 189 take our joy as we go, if we would ever have it. Life doesn't wait for the ideal condition to materialize. She leaves it to us to glorify the little common things of every day, that out of them we shall garner the deep satisfactions, the eternal joys that will halo all the years. Truth and beauty are manifesting themselves all around us. Let us tune in to the harmonies of life. Let us open our hearts to the happiness that each day holds for us, open the windows of our soul that heaven's gracious blessings may enter.
*Used by special permission of Harper & Brothers publishers. From Songs for Courage.
SPRINGTIME
The earth awakes from quiet rest and sleep, And whitened valleys, hills, and rolling plains Emerge from winter's shroud to bloom again. The air is filled with song of birds that keep Their promise of return. The bees now wing Their way across the meadows. One by one New forms of life unfolding to the sun Have brought about the glories of the spring.
Can man not find the answer to his life In nature's blooming season now at hand, And free his days from forceful rush and strife And walk serenely to the better land? The light of reason cannot fail to see There is no death. Spring comes eternally. —Grace M. Candland.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MARCH—The greatest joy lies in giving happiness.
KATHARINE LENROOT, head of the Children's Bureau at Washington, this year was feted on the completion of twenty-five years in service. This dignified, experienced woman's chief interest lies in obtaining laws and regulations for children's benefit, and she pays little attention to decoration or fashion. She is a brilliant conversationalist with a keen sense of humor, and laughed over a letter from a friend who, seeing her picture in the papers, wrote: "Dear Katharine, For heaven's sake get a good photographer or buy some new clothes."
THE Duchesses of Windsor and Kent tied for first place, and Queen Elizabeth was tenth in the annual roll of the ten best-dressed women of the world. A conservative estimate that the dress budgets for the ten socialites exceeded $1,000,000 is not a pretty story while England is at war and her people on rations. Because of the war, Royal courts have been abandoned, to the disappointment of the young debutantes, the tradesmen and titled women who for large fees and presents act as court chaperons.
JUDGE FLORENCE E. ALLEN, native of Utah and one of America's most famous women, has just published her second book, "This Constitution of Ours", an eloquent and interesting study of the great American Document. Her first book was a collection of original poems titled "Patris".
CLARISSA YOUNG SPENCER'S book "One Who Was Valiant" is now off the press. The book was being published at the time of Mrs. Spencer's demise last winter. It is the family life of her father, Brigham Young, told by an affectionate and devoted daughter.
MARY ELLEN CHASE, Professor of English at Smith College and author of many engaging books, the latest "A Goodly Fellowship", on a recent lecture tour spoke of a number of her pupils who had advanced in the field of literature, among them Ann Morrow Lindberg.
EFFIE CANNING CARLTON, composer of the slumberous melody, "Rock-a Bye Baby", died in impoverished circumstances. More than 300,000 copies of her song were sold, but others profited more than she from the royalties.
ELIZABETH HANNIE KUNZ, Idaho's oldest pioneer, died last January just after celebrating her one-hundredth birthday. The party given in the Cedron Ward chapel was attended by four generations of her family besides numerous friends. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint and Relief Society worker.
SARAH E. STEWART, Hannah Wilcox Dupont, Katharine G. Wright, Adelaide W. Dusenbury, and Sarah S. Stringham of Utah, all leaders in educational, civic and church work, died in the late winter.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
AMY BROWN LYMAN - President MARCIA K. HOWELLS - First Counselor DONNA D. SORENSEN - Second Counselor VERA W. POHLMAN - General Secretary-Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew Gertrude R. Garff Leona B. Fetzer. Edith S. Elliott Mary G. Judd Luella N. Adams Marianne C. Sharp Anna B. Hart
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. XXVII MARCH, 1940 No. 3
EDITORIAL
White House Conference On Children In A Democracy
OF interest to all welfare organizations is the conference on child welfare held in Washington, D. C., under the sponsorship of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. This is the fourth conference in the interest of children to be sponsored by a President of the United States. Other Presidents under whose auspices these have been held were: Theodore Roosevelt in 1909, Woodrow Wilson, 1919, and Herbert Hoover, 1930. The present conference held an organizing session last spring "setting in motion machinery for correlation of studies important to children". A program of action was drafted, to the end that the best in modern thought might be put to practical use for the benefit of all of the nation's children. At sessions held January 18 to 20, reports and outlines pertinent to child welfare in eleven fields were discussed: The Family as the Threshold to Democracy, Economic Resources of Families and Communities, Housing the Family, Economic Aid to Families, Social Services for Children, Children in Minority Groups, Religion and Children in a Democracy, Health and Medical Care, Education Through the School, Child Labor and Youth Development, and Child Development Through Play and Recreation. Plans for follow-up activities which will carry the program to the country were considered. The reports presented some very important facts, and recommendations made are to be commended. A hopeful and encouraging note in regard to our nation's greatest resource, our children, was struck. The economic security of American children, deemed basic to their well-being, was given careful consideration. The greatest need for children of America in 1940 the conference stated is work for eight or nine million unemployed adults?"real work at real wages". Where assistance must be given it should be in such forms and in such a way 192 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as "to preserve and stimulate resourcefulness, keep alive hope and ambition, guard the springs to action, prevent atrophy of the powers of self-direction, and promote the prospect of restoration to a normal role in society". That the schools must educate for democracy, and that democracy must come to the aid of the schools were two of the major tenets presented in the reports on "Education Through The Schools". The reports set forth the proposition that "the public schools must acquaint the child with the responsibilities and privileges of living in a democracy". This means "that there must be education for citizenship, family life, health, leisure, for a vocation and for responsible living". The importance of proper child labor regulations, vocational preparation and guidance, as well as the need for youth employment opportunities, was put before the Conference. It was maintained that, like education, play and recreation are a requirement of everyone, that all children should be able to participate in play and recreation programs; a positive approach should be made to this phase of child welfare and sustained and systematic effort be made to assist all in their choice of play and leisure activities in addition to providing suitable recreation centers. A new set of health standards was presented. Not only has the last ten years given us worthy scientific advancement in the field of health, but there has been increased health awareness. The fields of mental hygiene, nutrition, infant and maternal mortality, and mortality from communicable diseases all show great progress which bids well for our children. The importance of religious training was stressed. The fact that approximately one-half of the children and youth of America receive no formal religious instruction seems appalling to Latter-day Saints. Teaching religion to the youth of the land was termed "an unsolved problem". The Relief Society is vitally interested in all phases of child welfare. The national conferences have held our attention and enlisted our support. Following the 1930 conference, the Organization carried into its educational program the findings and recommendations brought together by the experts in the various fields at that time. Marked gains for the children of this nation have been made since the 1930 conference, but the present conference reveals that there are still many needs to be met. We realize that the more familiar we are with the problems of childhood, and the more acquainted we become with possible solutions the better equipped we are to deal with them. Mothers can be no more profitably engaged than in promoting the well-being of the nation's children.
Notes to THE FIELD
Relief Society General Conference
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE will be held in Salt Lake City, April 3, 4, 1940. The first day, sessions will be devoted to an officers' meeting for mission and stake presidents, officers and board members only, and to the following department meetings: Social Welfare, for stake presidents and for ward presidents who may be in attendance at Conference; Work and Business; Choristers' and Organists'; Magazine; Secretary-Treasurers'. Special attention will also be given to Mormon Handicraft and to the work of membership coordinators. The second day, two general sessions will be held. The newly appointed General Presidency and several of the new General Board members will address the sessions. The recently returned Relief Society presidents of the European missions will also participate. Music will be furnished by a combined group of Singing Mothers from Utah, Provo, Sharon and Kolob stakes. It is anticipated that the large attendance and fine spirit in evidence at past conferences will again be enjoyed. We look forward to meeting the Relief Society officers and members from the stakes and missions.
The Relief Society Song Book
"THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK" will be ready about March 1. It will contain some anthems and many of the choice hymns of previous collections as well as a number of new songs. The music has been arranged for general congregational singing as well as for Singing Mothers and other special groups. The book is a handy looseleaf style so that when open it will lie perfectly flat. New songs may be added conveniently. Words and music are easily read. It is eight by eleven inches in size with an attractive blue binding lettered in gold. The book may be purchased from the General Office. The price has been kept as low as possible?85c postpaid, whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Advance orders in quantity lots from stakes and wards should be sent in immediately in order to facilitate distribution as soon as the books are ready. Orders should be addressed: General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Bent Twig
"THE BENT TWIG" by Dorothy Canfield Fisher, being used in the Literature department, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The purchase price is $1.00 postpaid.
194 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
New Cantata by B. Cecil Gates
ORDERS for the new cantata, "Resurrection Morning", written by B. Cecil Gates and referred to in the February issue of the Relief Society Magazine should be addressed: Choir Publishing Company, 672 North First West, Salt Lake City, Utah. Single copies may be purchased for 75?; a ten per cent discount is allowed on quantity lots.
A Week With Books June 17-21, 1940
TO help celebrate the 500th anniversary of the invention of printing, Utah State Agricultural College is going to feature "A Week With Books" during the second week of its summer session, June 17-21, 1940. The program has been especially designed for librarians, parents and club members who are unable to spend more than a week or so in summer study. It is possible to enroll for the program without seeking college credit. Three lectures will be given daily in the mornings. Local faculty members and visiting professors will participate. During the afternoons those attending will have access to the Main Library and to the Anne Carroll Moore Library of Children's Literature. The following themes are to be considered: Monday and Tuesday, June 17, 18, "Books for the Younger Child"; Wednesday, June 19, "Books for the Older Child"; Thursday, June 20, "Books for Adult Reading"; Friday, June 21, "Planning a Club Program or Book Review".
QUESTING By Gertrude Perry Stanton
I sought the path to happiness; Always across my way A raging torrent surged, or else A mighty boulder lay.
Then for awhile I left my quest To help another on; My heart was filled with deep content? Self's barriers were gone.
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
SYNOPSIS
CAROLYN EVANS in her early married life had parked her mind by the highway of Life. Now in middle years, she suddenly realizes her husband, TURNER EVANS, has gone ahead and is almost out of sight. Despairing of ever overtaking him, she has thought half seriously of divorce as a solution to her problem. She sounds out her son, BOB EVANS, who comes back with, "Good grief, Mother, be your age." She had counted on him to understand; but she was not sure of her second-born, Carson Evans, who is fiery and hard to handle, and who is ready to leave home because of unpleasant conditions. On the morning the story opens, Turner has refused to take Carolyn with him to a convention at Crystal Springs. Hurt and bewildered, she flees to her CATHEDRAL OF PEACE, a cottonwood grove in the lower pasture of the ranch. To her comes Kane Holland, indignant for her and offering her a way out. On the way back to the ranch house she meets Bob, who infers she is a doormat because she allows Turner to treat her as he does. Determined to do something about the situation, she accepts a position in Relief Society and resolves to use every opportunity it offers both for social and mental development. Chapter four opens with her telling Turner she wants the horse and buggy to make some calls. He tries to frighten her into submitting to his will. For the first time in years she stands pat. With his twin daughters clinging to his arms, he presumably goes to harness the horse. Watching, Carolyn wonders why she has been afraid of him. The fear, she decides, is entirely within herself. When her work is done and she is dressed to make her calls, she discovers Turner, the twins and the buggy are gone. Goaded to bitter resentment, she walks to make her calls. "From now on, Turner Evans," she tells herself bitterly, "I am making a life of my own. You have hurt me for the last time." Coming through the lower pasture, Bob discovers two calves are gone. He suspects Carson has sold them. He tells his father they are gone but does not tell him his suspicions. Turner thinks the gate has been left open through carelessness, so he wires it closed. When she returns, Carolyn has to crawl through the fence. Thinking Turner has done it for spite, she decides on drastic action.
CHAPTER FIVE
BOB was worried, more than he dared admit to anyone. He could not tell his father his suspicions lest he precipitate a crisis. He dare not question Carson too closely for fear of putting him on his guard. After work one evening, he saddled his horse. "Where are you going?" Carson asked, as he passed him on his way to the house. "Some place." "I suspicioned that. Want me to go along?" "No." Bob hesitated, then turned and faced him. "Those calves couldn't go through that gate unless someone opened it for them. It was closed when I found it." "I beat you to that conclusion," Carson answered, readily enough. "I've been wondering how Dad is taking it; he doesn't say anything. Is he hunting thief or girl?" "Maybe both." "I thought so." As Bob rode away he thought, "If Carson is in this, he hides it mighty well. But a stranger couldn't do it alone. Oh, it is possible but highly improbable. That lane is crooked, and there are no houses about." 196 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Instead of turning his horse toward the bottoms, he headed east toward the Elkhorn. Even if he knew he could never be intimate with June Straughn, he reasoned inconsistently, that didn't mean he had to avoid her. As the horse splashed through the river, he looked toward the Straughn home. Should he go up? It was never amiss to be neighborly. Mother never neighbored, so someone should do it. As he hesitated, he caught a glimpse of a horse and rider out on the road. His pulse quickened, and he lifted the reins. They took the field in a high lope. Near where the road turned west, he overtook her. At the sound of his approach, she turned in the saddle. "Hello," she called, and the unrest that was on her face was instantly dispelled. "Are you going my way?" "That depends." Then she laughed. "It seems we are headed in the same direction." "I am riding fence." "Out here?" At his embarrassment she laughed outright. "You are not good at subterfuge. Confess now. You came out here hoping to meet me. It is written all over you." He stammered, trying to find words. She laughed again, softly this time, and reining close said, "Never mind. I did the same." The distant gurgling of water, the droning of insects became a refrain that sang through his blood. "You are honest and clear-sighted," were the simple words he answered, but they carried a meaning wide and inclusive. After that they talked a great deal and said little. Their laughter came easily. At the ford in the river he remembered the fence and the calves, and the remembering was like a plunge in cold water. He'd forgotten who he was and who she was, and the miserable business that was dictating his movements. "I should ride up this fence," he said, frowning at the quivering ribbon of water. She was quick to catch the change in him, and her hopes fell. "It seems to me you have plenty of trouble with that strip of fence." "We are not sure it is the fence. It might be the gate." Then he asked, "Why did you say that? Has someone said something to you about it?" "I was riding this way not long ago when I met Carson. He was driving a calf. He said it must have crawled through the fence. I helped him drive it back." Bob's face was impassive. What she had just said could be proof of either one of two things. He had to find which one. He made no answer. "I suppose your family is going to the ward reunion?" June ventured at length, trying to break his abstraction. "Huh? Yes, I suppose so. Oh, certainly. Mother is building great hopes on it. She hasn't been to anything similar for a long time." She waited for him to go on. There was to be a program with a dance following. All the girls were going with dates. Every effort was being made to make it an outstanding event in order to set the pace for the season's work. When he did not pursue the subject, she tossed her head. "I'll ride on." She lifted her reins. Her horse whirled. "But I thought we were riding through the hills?" His horse sprang to catch up with hers. "I'm afraid not tonight." "Wait. I'm riding home with you, at least." After he had left her and turned into his own field, he wondered bitterly if this was the way life had come to him. She had expected him to ask her to go to the dance. "I can't start it," he groaned miserably, not realizing he had already done that. ON a particular morning not long after Carolyn had torn her dress on the fence, she sat at the breakfast table and listened to the men's discussion of the day's work. Some one had to go to town, and she hoped it would be Bob. What she was going to do would be easier with him than with Turner; but her husband decided to go. "I am going to town with you," she said, when she saw him making preparations to leave. "Going to town?" he demanded in surprise. "Why?" "I need to," she answered shortly, then added, "don't go without me." The last was to fortify her own resolution. "Oh, goody," Judy cried, "we are going to town." "Goody," Jerry echoed, "we are going to town." Carolyn stopped short in dismay. "But you can't, babies, Mother isn't going to have time for you." "Just what," her husband wanted to know, "are you doing of such RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 197 importance that you haven't time for them?" "Any number of things. I haven't time to explain. They can stay with Dennis." The twins fled to their father for comfort. "I don't see?," he began, but Carolyn cut him short. "I am not taking them." She went to dress. "Whew," Dennis whistled. "What has happened to Mom?" "Wash them," his father told him, indicating the girls, "and get them dressed. I will take them with me." Dennis wanted to protest, but he thought better of it. Since he was not strong, he often was left to help his mother. So he was familiar with the procedure. "Come on," he commanded them. "Old tease cats. Always get you own way. Dad always spoils you." "You be nice to us," Judy demanded. Her twin added, "We shan't go with you 'til you are nice." "Oh, for cripe sake." He made a dive and caught one in each hand. The girls howled on general principles. "Do you want to go with me?" their father demanded sternly. "Yes," they weakened. "Better be ready when Mother is. She might decide you are to stay here." That settled it. They romped away, each determined to be first. Dennis walked after them a little slowly. What was happening around here? Dad didn't usually quote Mother. When Carolyn came from her room ready to go, she was met by the twins, clean and resplendent in their best. She looked from them to 198 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Turner and decided a protest was not worth the effort. All the way to town she had to reinforce her courage with memories. Hope and indignation, that had burned so brightly yesterday, had dimmed to a barely perceptible glimmer. It would be so much easier to ignore issues?so much easier, but there would never again be any satisfaction or content that way. For Bob's sake as well as her own she had to try. When they stopped in the parking lot, she got out of the car, then hesitated. Turner, pretending not to notice, helped the twins out. "What are you waiting for?" he asked, when he had locked the car and she was still there. "Money." Never was a word born of such reluctance. "What are you going to buy?" "Several things." "Mighty secretive all of a sudden, aren't you?" She set her lips stubbornly. Instead of walking away as he would formerly have done, he waited. "Tell me what you want to do with it, and I will give you some." Carolyn did not answer. Her eyes narrowed. With quickening breath she turned away. "Wait, I want to go with you," Jerry cried. "You are not going with me." At their mother's harsh tone, the twins turned to their father. Turner whistled softly. Something was happening to her lately. He should go after her and give her some money. She didn't ask very often. He couldn't see her now; if she wanted some very badly she would come back. With a twinge of remorse, he remembered she would not. MEANWHILE Carolyn had hurried down the street. She was no longer afraid. Anger, humiliation and determination had completely submerged her fear. She made her way quickly to the general mercantile store where Turner did his business. It was the best the small town afforded. She knew she must work quickly before her anger left her. She went to the second floor and made her way to the women's ready-to-wear. To the clerk's inquiry, she said, "I want a number of things, but first I want to know if I may have my purchases put on an account. Mr. Evans will pay for them later." (He will have to.) "I think that will be all right," the clerk answered, "but I will ask the manager. Just a moment, please." Carolyn's heart pounded suffocatingly while she waited. If they refused her, she would die of humiliation, and she would never try again. Night after night she had lain awake thinking, searching, planning. If Turner were through with her, she had to make a life of her own. Bob had said she hadn't kept up. They had pushed her past her limit. She had helped Turner get what he had. Getting some clothes out of it was her first cry for freedom. The first must be good, too, for there might not be a second. "What was it you wanted?" The manager was at her side, smiling encouragement. "Clothes." She tried to control the panic in her voice. "I haven't any money." "That is easily remedied," the man smiled broadly. "Mr. Evans' credit is good for anything you want. We are happy to serve you, Mrs. Evans." It was that easy. Carolyn almost slumped in relief. She must have known, subconsciously, that it would be. Turner had always been very careful of his credit. Without that fact her battle would have been harder. But in any case there would have been a battle, and she wasn't going to do anything they could not well afford. If Turner could stay at expensive hotels when he went away, she could do this. No dress pleased her. She tried on any number of styles. The effect was not what she wanted. She was still drab Carolyn Evans. Sensing her desire, the clerk decided to say something she had always wanted to say every time she looked at Mrs. Evans. "Don't you think if you selected the other things first you would be better satisfied?" "Other things?" "Shoes, for one thing. They always do something to a dress. Then there is your hair." Carolyn turned to the mirror. She looked at herself full length. For the first time in years she really saw herself. She had one thing in her favor?that was her figure. She was trim and slender. "From outdoor work," she whispered mentally. Her hair hung long on her neck, the ends rough and broken. A bobby-pin or two held it back from her face. "Tell me," she said, "anything you like." The clerk told her plenty. They consulted a beauty operator on the same floor. She advised against a permanent. "Your hair has a little natural wave," she said, after various RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 199 things had been discussed. "Let me shampoo it, and then we shall see." When Carolyn next looked at herself in the mirror, she caught her breath in fright, which turned quickly to elation. Surely, surely this was not Carolyn Evans. Her hair had been shampooed and brushed into a shining crown. It lay back from her face in soft, fluffy waves and was caught into a loose knot at the back. It lifted her features from commonplace to distinction. Her figure was straight and trim. To the clerk's intense disappointment, she refused to wear the new clothes. "Send them all to the transfer desk," Carolyn told her. "I will pick them up later. I want a few other things." She went away to look at house dresses. "It is time she decided to do something about herself," the clerk told the cashier. "She has always looked like her husband's step-sister, or something." "I have heard he is close with his family," the cashier said. "Close nothing. It is her carelessness. I wonder how she avoids bulges." WHEN Carolyn finally called for her packages, the girl at the desk said, "Your husband took them, Mrs. Evans. He said he would wait in the car." "Now I am in for it," she thought, as she started for the parking lot. Turner hated to be kept waiting. The day had slipped by so quickly. To her astonishment, she found she didn't care what he thought. This act of freedom had done something to her. As she approached the car, Judy 200 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE called, "What made you so long? We had dinner." "An' we had ice cream, and a man Daddy knows gave us some candy." Carolyn glanced at the back seat. Surely all those bundles were not hers. Her glance went over the twins. They had eaten, but they were immaculate. Turner would see to that. "Get in the back," she said, in answer to their questions. "No," Jerry answered with assurance, "we always ride with Daddy." But for once their beloved Daddy failed to grant their wish. He watched in silence as Carolyn transferred them and took her place beside him. She hadn't done that for a long time. Carolyn wasn't conscious that she had done it. She had simply reverted to an old habit. In her absorption, she had failed to remember she was an unwanted wife. She even failed to wonder what her husband was thinking about it all. She had no way of knowing it, but her attitude had won her first bout. They were on the highway headed toward home before Turner spoke. Then he indicated the back of the car. "Who's wild idea was that?" "Isn't it possible for me to have an idea?" "I wouldn't know." He borrowed a phrase from the boys. That was all?no recriminations, no sarcasm. "He is sorry about the money," she thought, jarred back to the present. "He wouldn't want anyone to know that about him. But I know, and I am through. He will never hurt me again." She found to her secret alarm that she wasn't concerned over hurts. She felt good. She felt at peace. How could that be when one of the biggest battles of her life was in the process of being fought? Had the new clothes done it,?or, the thought came suddenly, was it that she had again become a person? Three times today clerks had praised her looks and her figure. She straightened her shoulders. By the time they had turned into, the valley her spirits had risen to the point where she could ask casually: "Are you going to the party tomorrow night?" "What party?" he asked, as if glad of an excuse to talk. "The ward reunion. You know very well.. We have discussed nothing else for a month." "What would be the use?" he wanted to know. "We haven't been to a dance for so long we would not know how to act." A smile twisted Carolyn's mouth. "I wouldn't know how, you mean. I'll learn." Then she remembered Bob was taking Lucile Semple. She sighed. "Why are you sighing?" He was finding this ride stimulating. Carolyn was different. She looked the same, except she had done something to her hair; and yet she was wholly different. He smothered an impulse to reach out and touch her. "Bob is taking Lucile Semple." The twins, worn out by their day, were asleep. Turner's brows drew together in anger. Then disappointment took the edge off it, and he drove for some distance in silence. "I've been seeing him with the Straughn girl. I thought he liked her pretty: well.". "He does, but Joe Colts is taking her." "Joe Colts! What is the matter with that boy? I didn't think he was that slow." Carolyn did not answer, but in the silence her spirit and his met on common ground. A comforting unity welded them again into husband and wife, concerned in a common cause. She wondered what would happen to that common cause when they were separated. Turner spoke again. "He had better stay clear of that bunch. They are not the type for him. Lucile Semple! When any girl in the valley would be happy to go with him! Where's his backbone?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 201 That destroyed completely the peace that had enfolded her. He was so harsh with Bob. He kept driving, driving at him all the time over everything. "Please; Turner," she pleaded, "don't say anything to him about it." "Certainly I shall," he exploded. "The idea of him shaming June by going with a girl like Lucile. If he hadn't been paying her attentions it would be different." When she arrived home, Carolyn refused to let her family see her purchases. "You will see them later," was all the satisfaction she gave them. (To be continued)
LOSS By Miranda Snow Walton
A pine tree knows not winter's desolation, It stands unscathed beneath the ice and snow; It does not feel the stinging pain of parting With leaves and buds it bore a year ago.
But when the winter's gone, and earth is waking To apple orchards bravely blossoming, A pine tree prays for rapture of reunion,? It cannot know the glory of the spring.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The Projection of Emotion to the Chorus By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
THE last three articles have been devoted to the effect upon interpretation of the emotional content of words and music. Any conductor who has followed instructions carefully should now be able to work out a detailed scheme of tempos and dynamics that will in performance awaken in a listener the emotions intended to be conveyed by the composition. It now becomes the problem to convey this interpretation to the chorus in such a definite manner that each member understands the conductor's wishes and feels compelled to sing in accordance with them. This may be done in many ways. Some conductors teach their interpretation so thoroughly that the piece could be performed almost as well without a conductor. Others change their interpretation so often that the chorus, not knowing what to expect, must rely on the conductor's indications at the time of performance. Possibly it is best to combine these methods so that the chorus knows the music and the general interpretation but must watch the conductor carefully for timing, detailed shading, and inspiration. The mood is conveyed to the chorus by means of conducting technique described in early articles of this series. Tempo and changes therein are shown by speed and size of the beat, aided. Occasionally by the left hand. Loudness and softness are indicated by judicious use of the left hand, coupled with variations in the size of baton movements. A supporting motion of the left hand will prevent a chorus from breathing at the wrong time, and a gasp will make everyone breathe together. Great tension in the hands and arms will intensify whatever is being indicated, whether it is softness, loudness or change of speed. Mouthing the words will sometimes keep the chorus together better than anything else, but it is unwise to sing while conducting. These techniques, no matter how perfect, are not enough. The conductor must convey to the chorus the emotion itself. This is done by means of facial expressions and attitudes of the body.. These cannot be called up artificially, as a part of the conductor's technique ? they must be genuine results of an emotional experience. The conductor must think about the emotion to be expressed so strongly as actually to feel it personally. This results automatically in appropriate expressions, which convey the conductor's desires to the chorus far better than words. It is not well to talk much in rehearsal. Things seen are remembered better than things heard, so it is more effective to conduct than to talk. The conductor's chief function is to inspire a chorus to sing well. All the rehearsals are in vain unless the performance is better than any of them. This is what makes a great conductor?the ability to inspire the singers to do better in performance than they have ever done in rehearsal.
Theology and Testimony DEPARTMENT
Lesson 9 Paul's Lasting Influence
HELPFUL REFERENCES
F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, pp. 1-7. Cardinal Gibbons, Our Christian Heritage, ch. XXXI. C. E. Macartney, Of Them He Chose Twelve, pp. 156-165. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, ch. XXXIV.
PAUL'S SERVICE TO CHRISTIANITY.?It would be almost impossible to adequately estimate. Paul's services to the cause of Christianity. Dean Farrar has said, "In truth it is hardly possible to exaggerate the extent, the permanence, the vast importance, of those services which were rendered to Christianity by Paul of Tarsus." Paul was an indefatigable worker and accomplished almost impossible tasks. Anyone who will take the trouble to check over his work on the four main missionary journeys will be convinced of that. And it should be kept in mind that we have only a very imperfect record of his life and labors. Paul's intelligence and industry were among the chief factors in the sudden spread of Christianity in the ancient Mediterranean world. It is quite likely that young John Mark deserted Paul and Barnabas on their first missionary journey because they were leading too stiff a pace. There may have been other reasons, too, but that was probably the foremost. The Apostle to the Gentiles preached in a few short years from Jerusalem to Illyricum, from Illyricum to Rome, and possibly even to Spain and Britain. He accounted the cause sufficiently worthy to be "in jeopardy: every hour". (I Cor. 15:30) Part of his second letter to the Corinthians reveals the lengths to which he was willing to go for Christianity's sake. "Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; in journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; in weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness." (II Cor. 11:23-27) Few modern missionaries have an adequate conception of the vast labors and suffering endured by Paul in order 204 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that the Gentiles might hear the Gospel. Paul also contributed to Christianity some of its greatest literature. In fact, the whole world is indebted to Paul "for its richest treasures of poetry and eloquence, of moral wisdom and spiritual consolation". (Farrar) It is to the great Apostle of the Gentiles that Christianity owes the first systematic treatment of the connection beween the ancient law and that of Christ. Paul understood that the Gospel was in the world before the Law of Moses was given, but few persons not of our faith do. He, next to the Christ, perhaps did more to emancipate the early Christians from the bonds of Jewish legalism than any other man. Paul was the "Apostle of freedom, of culture, of the understanding". Farrar beautifully points out that "whenever the faith of Christ has been most dimmed in the hearts of men, whenever its pure fires have seemed in greatest danger of being stifled, as in the fifteenth century? under the dead ashes of sensuality, or quenched, as in the eighteenth century, by the chilling blasts of skepticism, it is mostly by the influence of his writings that religious life has been revived." It was the influence of Paul in shattering the legalistic doctrines of the Jews that "worked once more in the soul of Luther to burst the gates of brass, and break the bars of iron asunder with which the Papacy had imprisoned for so many centuries the souls which God made free". The contributions of Paul in bringing light, liberty and freedom into the world during the Reformation have not been adequately appreciated. These in turn helped make it possible for the Gospel to be restored in our own era. And still Paul's work "goes marching on". PAUL'S INFLUENCE ON SLAVERY ?It is a surprising fact that there is still much slavery in the world. Nevertheless, Christianity can be credited with bringing about a great advance. The ancient Pagan world, as Cardinal Gibbons pointed out, extolled the virtues of courage, magnanimity, fortitude and self-reliance as the ideal of human perfection. "But," says the Cardinal, "poverty of spirit, humility and meekness under contempt, patience and resignation under affronts, forgiveness of injuries and love of enemies, a spirit of obedience and longsuffering, were despised by them as servile virtues, or rather as no virtues at all, but the base characteristics of an enslaved and ignoble caste." The early Church came immediately to grips with the problem of human slavery. However, it was unable to do much at the time toward abolishing the practice. Even before the rise of Christianity, the more humane Jewish rabbis taught that slaves should be treated kindly. The Essenes and some other sects of extremists had done away with slaves. However, the usual Jewish practice condoned the use of foreign slaves and even Israelitish slaves. Many Jews were guilty of scourging and torturing slaves. With all these practices we can assume Paul was familiar. What was his attitude toward slavery? Some persons have thought that he should have openly advocated the abolishment of the practice. It is probable that in his heart he was in favor of freeing all men. But to have openly advocated the freeing of slaves would have been to cut down his influence and may have led to an early grave. It is more than likely that he thought the easiest way to do away with the age-old practice was to preach the Gospel and let Christian democracy gradually settle the problem. The letter to Philemon reveals Paul's method of dealing with a practical situation. It appears that Paul had converted Onesimus, a runaway slave, who, by a coincidence, belonged to one of his fine friends, Philemon, a good church member. Onesimus had attended Paul faithfully and was beloved of him. But there was a duty to Philemon. Paul sends the slave back to his former master with the plea that he receive him kindly "Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself." (Philemon 16, 17) These are noble words, and many slaves through the centuries can count their release to them. We may quote Cardinal Gibbons in reference to Paul: "The Apostle of the Gentiles frequently comforts the Christian slave by reminding him of the real source of moral grandeur. He tells him that true dignity does not depend on the accident of birth, or wealth, or civil freedom, or social station, but that virtue is the sole standard of moral excellence in the sight of God, as well as the sole test of future retribution. He informs the slave that he has a soul as well as Caesar; that he is the child of God by adoption, the brother of Christ... And that he has equal privileges with the freeman to a participation in the Divine Spirit. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 205 'For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free." (I Cor. 12:13) "In the family of Christ to which they belong "Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all" " (Col. 3:11) In Ephesians 6:5-9 Paul teaches slave and master their respective duties, "prescribing laws that exercised a salutary restraint on the authority of the one, and sanctified the obedience of the other." We can justly say that Paul's method of dealing with the slave question has generally guided honorable men throughout the centuries. It has been pointed out by some writers that the little Epistle to Philemon has alone contributed more to alleviate the sufferings of humanity than all of the moral treatises of the most benevolent Pagan philosophers. THE INFLUENCE OF PAUL ON ART.?Mankind would be infinitely poorer without art. In the Western world from the fourth to the sixteenth centuries art was developed primarily in the service of Christianity. One has only to visit the great art galleries of the world, particularly in Europe, to observe how greatly the Christian religion has been the inspiration of great artists. Nor are paintings and sculpture the only evidence of this. Great churches and cathedrals have been designed and built by master architects and craftsmen whose only desire was to give the best of their genius in the service of religion. The work of Christ and the Apostles has 206 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE furnished the theme of a vast amount of noble art. Of the Apostles, Paul and Peter have been especially popular as subjects. Peter generally represents converted Jews and Paul the Gentiles; together they are supposed to represent the Church Universal. There are not many legends connected with the Apostle to the Gentiles, but the stories told in the Acts have furnished numerous subjects for art work. Very often Paul and Peter are represented in the same picture, and it becomes necessary to know how they may be distinguished. Paul is usually represented as being small in stature, with bright, sparkling eyes, high forehead and aquiline nose. His hair and long flowing beard are brown in color. When represented with the Savior or the Virgin, Paul and Peter are placed on each side of them. Usually they are dressed about alike. The great influence of Paul's life merits the high place that he has found as a subject in the realm of art. PAUL THE MAN.?Thousands of men who have been little interested in Christianity?or any other religion for that matter?have nevertheless been impressed by Paul as a man among men. We may sum up his virtues as follows: (1) He had a deep appreciation of the dignity of human nature. As Macartney says, "This is always a mark of a great soul. Paul showed his high thought of the worth and dignity of man by a high regard for himself. I have always counted it a fortunate thing that he who is the great teacher as to the sinfulness of man and the corruption of human nature was no mealy-mouthed weakling, but the manliest man that ever lived." (2) He, like his great Master, had an intense love for man. This was a gradually developed characteristic. (3) He had a distinctly heroic element in his make-up. He was, as someone has said, "Heroic battler, noble wrestler for Christ!" Macartney points out that there were three elements in Paul's triumph: 1. His aim and purposes did not end with self. 2. God had a purpose to work out in his life. 3. His fellowship with Christ was so close that he could make bold to say that Christ suffered in him. (4) He had the gift for making strong friendships. His heart was a large one that burned for those who were lost and in deep affliction. Paul's place in history is forever secure.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Comment on Paul's desire to work. How would he measure up with President Heber J. Grant's ideals?
2. Point out and comment on some of Paul's literary masterpieces.
3. Let a member of the class interested in art briefly discuss Christian art.
4. Point out some of Paul's heroic deeds.
5. What qualities of Paul appeal most to you? Illustrate.
6. What great Mormon missionaries remind you most of Paul?
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 9 Charity
"Charity never faileth."?I Cor. 13:8.
CHARITY is exalted as the highest attainment of the Christian life by the Apostle Paul. It is not easy to find one word which adequately represents what he meant by the word charity. It is more than almsgiving. One may be generous to the poor and lack charity. It is greater than benevolence. Many a person is benevolent, willing to give to the poor, full of plans for the benefit of others, yet utterly deficient in that religious sense which accompanies the Christian grace of charity. While the word love is most nearly identified with it in meaning, love may be a form of human affection in which self and passion are mixed. Christian charity is love in its full meaning, that love wherein we are freed from selfness. It must be distinguished from almsgiving, benevolence, passion or sentiment, while at the same time something of each of these is still contained in it. It is love which contemplates a likeness to the Master. It encompasses the desire to give, whether alms or self, a willingness to sacrifice. It involves a desire to bless. It seeks happiness for the one loved. It strives to make men good and Godlike, to transform this earth into a place where men cease to quarrel, to envy, to slander and retaliate but rather to live in peace and harmony. The Master exercised charity. He desired the best for all of his Father's children. He worked, with no thought of self, for the well-being of the whole man?body, soul and spirit. President Joseph F. Smith says: "Charity, or love, is the greatest principle in existence. If we can lend a helping hand to the oppressed, if we can aid those who are despondent and in sorrow, if we can uplift and ameliorate the condition of mankind, it is our mission to do it; it is an essential part of our religion." "Charity Never Faileth" is the banner around which the entire Relief Society program is planned. The ideal was contained in the original instructions given by the Prophet to this organization. Louise Y. Robison in addressing the Relief Society Conference, April, 1936, said: "Sisters of the Relief Society, you have been called by men holding the Priesthood not only to carry your own responsibilities, your own load, but you have been considered strong enough to help carry the load of those who are overburdened... Not merely to send a basket, but to make them one of you." True charity can be cultivated: First, by doing acts which love demands. "Act with a cold heart if we have not a warm one; it will grow warmer while we act." Second, it may be cultivated by contemplating the love of God. As we acquire the 208 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE certainty that our Father's love is ours, it becomes easier to be generous, tolerant, benevolent; human wrongs are minimized, injuries forgiven, and men seem more worth loving. "True charity refuses to see small faults, it bears and forbears, it makes large allowances, it understands by sympathy, it tolerates even intolerance. It constantly acts for the complete well-being of mankind." Charity never faileth.
Discussion
It is suggested that the sisters memorize I Cor, 13:1-13.
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 9 The Bent Twig
THIS lesson, the last for the current year, will consider Books III and IV of The Bent Twig of which novel the New York Times says: "It stands well forward among the best American fiction of this or any other time, for it is at once true in its portraiture of life, unusually artistic in its craftsmanship, interesting in its story and vitally worth while as a study of human nature." Sylvia has now reached young womanhood passing through the experiences of college life as well as other phases of life through which we all go. She faces the future gaily resolute, hopeful, unafraid and wise as well. Hers is a picture of life, very sweet, fresh and stimulating. During the last years of Sylvia's life at home, she had been very close to her mother and Judith. This uneventful period was brought to a close by a letter from Aunt Victoria inviting Sylvia to spend a few weeks with her at her summer home in Vermont. True to her principles, the mother left the decision to Sylvia. "Though neither of them knew it at the time, it was the last of their life together. Sylvia now appears in new surroundings, and many new people are introduced. Arnold has developed into just the type of young man one would expect from the environment in which he has lived. A friendship which is to continue through his life is begun between Sylvia and Arnold, and she tries to help him. Among the new characters are Molly Sommerville and Felix Morrison. Though a sister of Sylvia's father, Aunt Victoria is as different from her brother as day from night; in the new life of luxury in which Sylvia finds herself, she needs all the fine heritage and training of both parents to resist the insidious influences that surround her. With the same fidelity to detail that was found in the portrayal of the Marshall's home life and the coeducational university activities, there is presented the picture of the idle rich and the life they live, guided by tradition and formula. There is much that is generous, fine and beautiful, but there are ugly things, too, that are not entirely disguised. The Boston Transcript says: "Any novel founded upon such well defined theories as The Bent Twig must necessarily meet with argument. Mrs. Fisher's portrayal of character and of the ideals of American life is deeper, however, than the theories of her story and give it an interest and value which can not be overlooked." Felix Morrison, the art critic, was a much more dangerous man to be associated with Sylvia than were any of her earlier admirers. Brilliant, artistic, experienced in the ways of the world, he knew just how to win the young woman. "Never in her life had she been the recipient of flattery so precisely to her taste." He was really in love with Sylvia; but Molly, the pampered child of wealth, was in love with him. Sylvia's fine character is shown in her conduct toward Molly, when she agrees to avoid Morrison and let Molly have her way. The forest fire is a dramatic episode, though a very real experience. Through the fire and Molly's participation in it, Sylvia met Austin Page, Molly's cousin. He is, from the first introduction into the story, a real man. He stands in contrast to Felix Morrison very much as Sylvia's mother does to Aunt Victoria. One event that had direct bearing upon Sylvia's life was the visit of Judith and the engagement between Arnold and Judith. In spite of all the elegance and show of Molly's wedding, the thought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 209 would intrude itself into Sylvia's mind that it was an ugly thing to have done?to marry Molly for her money. Another tragic fact that disturbed Sylvia dreadfully and precipitated a serious disagreement between Aunt Victoria and Sylvia was her discovery that Arnold was an alcoholic. She feels that she must tell Judith what she knows. Aunt Victoria objects. This is quite a side-light on the character of a woman who could not brook the intrusion of anything that might interfere with her ease or comfort. It was a manifestation of selfishness in its ugliest form. Following the wedding of Felix Morrison and Molly, Sylvia goes to Europe with Aunt Victoria. In carrying the story on to foreign soil, one detects the complete familiarity of the author with the new scenes and people. This part of the story brings to mind what The Manchester Guardian said of Mrs. Fisher: "Dorothy Canfield Fisher has won an international reputation. Her books are published in France, Italy, England, Holland and the Scandinavian countries. She is one of the few American authors who, while profoundly influenced by her European experiences and her appreciation of many things in Europe, retains a full-blooded Americanism of the best kind." Mrs. Fisher is happy in being able to apply her European knowledge to American conditions; she occupies a very remarkable position in consequence, among American authors. THE story of the life in Paris is well constructed from a literary point of view and is clearly and forcibly written. The refinement and 210 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE delicacy of treatment of the love of Austin Page for Sylvia is one of the finest bits of modern romance. In her conduct, Sylvia is worthy of her fine heritage. The termination of Molly's marriage came as one might expect, in tragedy. Morrison again enters Sylvia's life, but not on the same footing as of old. Perhaps the most sordid chapter in the life of Aunt Victoria is revealed in Sylvia's encounter with Professor Saunders in Paris. In spite of her love and loyalty, Sylvia sees her aunt for just what she is when she views the human derelict, the victim of her selfishness. The chapter relating the reaction of the high-souled girl to this is one of the most powerful in the book. She feels that all the beauty and joy of life has gone out of it, and then comes the thought that the only foundation upon which life can endure is integrity; without that, all achievement is in vain. The conduct of Austin Page in regard to his vast estate and his return to America profoundly touch Sylvia, but she drifts with the current and sails for Naples with her aunt, The sudden call for a return home because of the illness of her mother came with crushing violence, and Sylvia acted. Her flight from the boat and the journey home are a dramatic recital of her courage. All the glorious efforts of the heroic mother were now justified. The agony of the return and the depths of sorrow in the motherless home present a picture of moving pathos. WHILE the family life of the Marshall's was undoubtedly the product of Christian ideals, they were not conscious of this fact. While high-souled and thoroughly good, they did not believe in a personal Deity nor personal immortality. Their faith was sufficient until they met the test of a real tragedy. Under the load of grief, the father's fine mind gave way, and Sylvia was in despair. The chapter "The Outer Stars" is a beautiful confession of the truth that God lives and loves his erring children. It is a proof that the ever "onward, upward, striving soul works out its own salvation'. Sylvia emerged from her mother's garden with the knowledge that her mother lived and would ever be by her side. Her father was to get this knowledge in quite another way. It is touching that poor, old, despised cousin Parmelia should have been the one to help the brilliant, shattered mind to find itself again. It is no justification of the planchette; but. Only the knowledge of the one fact it purported to give could lead Professor Marshall back to sanity? he had not lost Barbara, his beloved wife; she, as an immortal person, would always be at his side. That thought, no matter from what source it came, would be the power to lead him back to sanity and give him courage to face life again. The tragedy of Arnold and Judith could only come in a modern novel which is a real social register. The consummation of the love story of Sylvia and Austin Page is in harmony with its development. It may not be inappropriate to close these lessons on The Bent Twig with the statement of Heloise E. Hersey: "Mrs. Fisher is now in the full maturity of her powers. It would be sheer inadequacy to characterize her as a novelist. She is that rare creature, a woman of letters. Whatever her hand finds to do for the printed page will be well done. She has a kind and generous nature, and she scatters its blessings freely upon her readers. In an age when confusion and suspicion and even hatred abound, she reveals to us a thousand points of loving contact between us and the world as it is. We may well rejoice in her generous temper, the purity of her spirit and her wholehearted belief that the things which are unseen are eternal." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 211
Questions and Suggestions
1, Give your impressions of The Bent Twig as a modern novel. 2. Compare it with the other two novels studied this year. 3. Name some of the outstanding features of the book; some of the great social problems of the day. 4. Upon what do you place the greatest emphasis for Mrs. Fisher's claim to distinction?
Mission Lessons
L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 9 Events In Missouri (To be used in place of Literary Lesson)
IN the last lesson we learned that the Saints lived in two places mainly. One of these places was in Ohio and the other was in Missouri. We must bear in mind that both of these states were but sparsely populated then as compared with what they are now. However, all the Saints in Ohio, and everywhere else for that matter, were looking forward eagerly to the time when they, too, might go up to the "Land of Zion". That is, they did so in the latter part of the year 1831, the whole of the year 1832, and the first half of the year 1833. Then something happened to blast their hopes of gathering in Jackson county, Missouri. That something occurred in the fall of 1833. At the same time it kept them from living peacefully in their Zion; it taught them a valuable lesson in obedience, which the Latter-day Saints have never altogether forgotten. Here are the interesting details: EVERY blessing that comes to us from the Lord comes as a result of obedience to his commandments. That is a little clearer to us today than it was to the Saints who went to Zion, in Missouri. Yet the Prophet made this very clear at the time, so that there needed not to have been any doubt on the point. Indeed, he said it was a "law," that blessings follow obedience, not disobedience. Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon took the first companies to Missouri, and established them there. They directed the building of the first log 212 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cabin in Kaw township; they dedicated the land which had been bought for the settlement; they chose a site for the temple, and dedicated it. Now, one of the things that took place on this occasion was the entering into a covenant by the Saints there that they would (1) obey the laws of the land and the laws of God in this place, and (2) that they would teach others who came after them to do the same things. Special stress was laid on keeping the commandments of God, because that includes more than merely keeping the laws of the land. If they did the one, they would of necessity be doing the other, also. Elder Rigdon put the questions very clearly, and the people answered "Yes" to all of them. We must remember this point, since it is very important in view of what happened in Zion. There was a good reason why so much emphasis should be placed on high conduct by the Saints. We said a little way back that "Zion" means "pure in heart". That is something to be remembered now. The Saints were to be pure in heart as long as they remained in Zion. Otherwise, it would not be Zion to them. Zion was to be established on a different plan from other cities. The town itself was to cover one square mile. Its streets were to run east and west, north and south, and be wide. The houses were to be set back on the lots, so as to leave room in front for lawns, with flowers and shrubbery, and in the rear the people who lived on the lots were to raise vegetables and fruit. Barns, cattle, horses, and cows were to be on the outside, where the farms were. It was just such a town as Sir Ebenezer Howard was to establish long afterwards in England. Then, in addition, there were to be no rich and no poor in Zion. This was to be brought about by what is known among us as the United Order. Each householder was to own his home and whatever he needed to earn his living; whatever surplus he had went to the Lord's storehouse. There is not enough space here to give the plan in detail, but that is the general idea. Of course, there were to be schools and chapels. The temple was to be in the midst of the city. The population of the city was not to exceed twenty thousand. Joseph Smith, you see, did not intend that in Zion any large towns should arise, with their slums, vice, and poverty. That is the kind of town he planned for his people in Jackson county, Missouri. It is interesting to know that, so far as the town itself is concerned, Zion has always been a pattern for all the Mormon towns in the West ?Salt Lake City, in Utah, for instance, and San Bernardino, in California. THE Saints in Missouri and their non-Mormon neighbors did not get along very well. And no wonder ?they were so very different! The "old" settlers, as these neighbors have come to be called, believed in human slavery, and some of them had slaves. The Saints did not believe in slavery; they held it to be wrong. But they did not press their views upon the Gentiles in the county. Some trouble also arose over politics. You see, in Missouri the officers of the county were chosen every so often by the voters. As long as the "old" settlers were in the majority, they held these offices, which paid a salary and gave some power. But when it appeared that the Mormons might come in ever-increasing numbers, the time would surely come some day when the Saints would out-vote their neighbors, and then they would hold the offices. A third difficulty was religious. The Saints believed that God had given them this land "for an inheritance". Of course, they expected to buy the land, and they did, as a matter of fact. Maybe some of them boasted of this "inheritance", and this, you may be sure, would make the "old" settlers angry. Then, too, the Saints had a new faith? that is, new to their generation, though it was old to the world. They believed in a God of miracles; they held that their priesthood was the true priesthood; that prophets and apostles were as necessary today as in the time of Peter and James and John; and they taught that there had been an apostasy from the Church of Christ. All this was so different from what the "old" settlers had been taught that it increased the ill feeling already existing between the two parties. ERHAPS you have read or heard of the result of these three differences. The "old" settlers drove out the Saints. A mob gathered at Independence, took Bishop Partridge and other Mormons and covered them with tar, tore down the house in which the printing press was operated, drove Elder W. W. Phelps and his wife and child into the street, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 213 rifled the store belonging to the Saints. Then some of the leading Mormons and leading Gentiles got together to see if they could not come to an agreement in the situation. They agreed very well. The Gentiles insisted that they have their way. The Mormons must leave. And the Mormons agreed to do so. That appeared to be the only way out of the situation. But before the Saints could leave, another mob, every man of whom was armed, at the muzzle of the gun drove out of the county every man, woman, and child who claimed to be a Latter-day Saint. It was November and the weather was cold. But that made no difference. One of the Mormons was killed outright, and several others were wounded. The fleeing Saints crossed the river into Clay county, where they were received with kindness by the "old" settlers there. But what of the lesson? After the Saints had settled in their Zion, the Prophet did not forget. About that covenant which they had made. He reminded them of it on more than one occasion, particularly when they showed a disposition to forget it themselves. On one occasion he told them bluntly that, unless they repented, something would happen. He did not say what. And when that something did happen, they called to mind what he had told them. The Saints never went back to their homes. Indeed, those homes were set on fire by their enemies. Questions 1. On what conditions were the 214 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Saints given an "inheritance" in Zion? 2. State the "law" through which we receive blessings from the Lord. 3. Discuss the form, the size, of Zion. Tell about the United Order. 4. What happened to the Saints there? What differences existed between them and their neighbors? 5. How had the Saints treated their covenant? History lessons. 
