THE Iris, one of our colorful and beautiful late spring flowers, is used as the subject for the cover of this issue of the "Magazine." This is one of the few times that three colors have been used on the cover. The use of color and the blending of color obtained in this illustration have been made possible by recent developments in color photography, and through the use of special film?Kodachrome, professional type. The work of this particular color process has been entirely completed locally. The original picture and the separation of the colors by photographic process are the work of a local photographer, Mr. Norman Smith. The engravings were made by Utah Engraving Company, and the printing is the work of the Deseret News Press. Let us know how you like the finished product.
The Editor.
THE FRONTISPIECE
OF THE Open Gate," portraying the north entrance to Temple Square, used as a frontispiece in this issue of the "Magazine," is a copy of a picture used on the cover of a booklet entitled, "Sketches of Beautiful Salt Lake City," published and copyrighted by the Deseret Book Company. The booklet contains twenty-two views of Salt Lake City as seen through the eye of the artist, N. I. Gornick.
Make your home colorful, clean and protect it with Bennett's Paints
Bennett's 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoration without costly mixing. You get exactly the color you want. Ask for the FREE large color chips.
BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. SALT LAKE CITY
Dealers throughout the Intermountain country.
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
After Graduation? prepare for an OFFICE POSITION
Calls for office workers are increasing! Ask for information about our courses and employment service.
L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah
Index to Advertisers
Bennett Glass & Paint 7
Brigham Young University
Deseret News Press C c
Fisher Baking Co 9
W. P. Fuller Paint Co 7
Larkin Mortuary
L. D. S. Business College oc c c 283
Inside Back Cover
Outside Back Cover
c c Inside Back Cover
c c 4 d - 358
C c Inside Back Cover ee ek 888
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII MAY, 1940 No. 5
Contents
Special Features
Open Gates at Temple Square Donna D. Sorensen 285
Frontispiece—"The Open Gate" N. I. Gornick 286
Relief Society Conference Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 287
Fiction
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 7) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 355
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 354
Editorials:
Conference Recollections D. D. S. 349
Mother's Day B. S. S. 351
Elder George Albert Smith Observes Birthday E. S. E. 353
Music Department—How to Teach a New Song Wade N. Stephens 357
Poetry
Remnants Ellen J. Coulam 317
Mother to Daughter Gertrude Perry Stanton 348
Discrimination Olive McHugh 352
Jane Bradford Terry 358
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
OPEN GATES AT TEMPLE SQUARE
THE years since the erection of these gates have seen thousands of Saints conference-bound pass herein, attending not only to the present life but providing also for the life which is to come. Those who have sought solace within the confines of this sacred block have been people whose eyes were not satisfied alone with seeing nor whose ears delighted only in hearing, but many have been the truly faithful who have yearned and desired greatly a renewal of the spirit. Thousands have come miles and sacrificed much for these few brief hours spent at conference. Many have come with sad and heavy hearts—with souls anxious and weary with the struggle and the vicissitudes of life. Here they have evaluated worldly and transitory gifts and promises and have resolved to exchange them for supreme and eternal things. Many have come with hearts filled with rejoicing at the blessings given unto them by the Father. Here their praise and thanksgiving have striven for expression, and they have worshiped the Lord with increased religious fervor. Some gates are entered reluctantly, but those who have entered these gates have done so exercising their right of free agency. They who have entered have been those who have loved the Lord, and they have come with joyful steps and anticipatory minds, for they believed and knew that here would be found a prophet of the Lord who would teach and counsel and admonish them. As the Saints have left these gates, their beaming countenances have registered that no trifling reward has been theirs for effort and time spent. Rather have they experienced a return that was great and profitable. Even as these gates are closed and locked at night, so the conclusion of each conference finds locked within the heart of each loyal Saint a memory of faith renewed, of courage strengthened, of spirits fed and understandings quickened.
Donna D. Sorensen.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII
Relief Society Conference April, 1940
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
THE semi-annual general conference of Relief Society convened in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1940. Arrangements for this two-day conference, devoted largely to the consideration of administrative procedures, were made by a committee of the General Board, of which Counselor Marcia K. Howells was chairman. Due to the recent reorganization of the General Board, which occurred as of January 1, 1940, midway in the six-month interval between the October and April conferences, the conference just held was characterized by tributes of love and appreciation to the retiring leaders, and by the introduction of the new general officers and board members.
Retiring Officers and Board Members Honored
The service and achievements of former General President Louise Y. Robison, Counselor Kate M. Barker, General-Secretary Julia A. F. Lund, and other retiring board members, during the eleven years of their administration, were extolled by the new president, Amy Brown Lyman, in the opening address of the conference. The inspirational invocation at the final general session in the Tabernacle was offered by Sister Robison, and the first session of the conference—the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall—was opened with prayer by Annie Wells Cannon, who had served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years. Other former members of the Board who appeared on the conference program were: Emma A. Empey, who had also served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years, and who offered the invocation at the president's breakfast; Janet M. Thompson, now a member of the general superintendency of the Primary Association who, in the music department, discussed The New Relief Society Song Book which was prepared for publication during her service as former chairman of the Board's music committee; and Lalene H. Hart who pronounced the benediction at the department session on the work meeting and Mormon Handicraft. Opportunity for the renewal of acquaintance and the exchange of
MAY, 1940 No. 5
greetings between former Members of the General Board and Relief Society workers from the various stakes and missions was provided at all sessions and functions of the conference, but especially at the evening reception, April 3, in honor of Louise Y. Robison, her executive officers and board members, which was attended by nearly 1,500 stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents.
Participation of Present Board
The incoming officers and all new and retained members of the General Board participated in the conference through individual appearance on the program or as members of committees in charge of the various department sessions and social functions. At the reception, the new officers and members of the Board stood in the receiving line with the retiring leaders, while those members of the former Board who had served less than ten years and were retained as members of the present Board, greeted the stake and mission workers and ward presidents in the reception and dining rooms.
Schedule of Meetings
Following is a schedule of the meetings and entertainments which comprised the conference:
I. Officers' meeting (for stake and mission officers and board members), Wednesday, April 3, at 10:00 a. M.
II. Five department meetings, Wednesday afternoon, April 3—
1. Social Welfare and Membership (for stake and mission officers and board members, stake coordinators, and ward presidents), 1:30 p. M.
2. Relief Society Magazine (for stake and mission Magazine representatives, and stake, mission and ward presidents), 3:30 p. M.
3. Work-and-Business and Mormon
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
Handicraft (for stake and mission officers and board members), 1:30 p. M. 4. Music (for stake and mission choristers and organists), 3:30 p. M. 5. Secretary-Treasurers (for stake and mission secretary-treasurers), 3:30 p. M.
III. Two general sessions (for all officers and members, and the public), Thursday, April 4, at 10:00 a. m. And 2:00 p. M.
IV. A reception in honor of Louise Y. Robison, former General President, and her executive officers and board members (for stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents), Wednesday, April 3, 7:00 to 10:00 p. M.
V. A breakfast for stake and mission presidents, Thursday, April 4, 7:45 a. M.
Representation and Attendance
The inclusion of ward presidents at department meetings on social welfare and Relief Society Magazine, and at the reception was an innovation at this conference. Registration records indicate that more than 300 ward presidents attended the business sessions. All but two of the 128 stakes were represented at the conference. The representative from Gridley Stake was prevented from attending by last-minute interruption of train service, and Oahu Stake, located in Hawaii, was not represented because of the great distance. The representation included not only the stakes concentrated in western United States but the Chicago and New York stakes and those in Canada and Mexico. Ten of the twelve missions with headquarters in the United States were also officially represented—all but East Central States and Eastern States missions—and, in addition, the Canadian and Mexican missions. The Relief Society women who
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
assisted with the registration of attendance and who welcomed stake and mission representatives and ward presidents at all sessions held in the Assembly Hall were members of the Ensign Stake Relief Society Board. Registered attendance at the various business sessions which comprised the first day of the conference was approximately as follows: officers' meeting—1,000 stake and mission officers and board members; department session on social welfare and membership—700 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; department session on Relief Society Magazine—600 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; at the department dealing with the work meeting and with Mormon Handicraft—400 stake and mission representatives; music department—150 stake and mission choristers and organists, or their representatives; more than 100 stake and mission secretaries, or their representatives, attended the department for secretary-treasurers; and 175 women—Relief Society presidents of stakes and missions, or their representatives, recently-returned presidents of Relief Society in European missions, and former and present members of the General Board—assembled for the presidents' breakfast which was held early Thursday morning, on the second day of the conference. Attendance at the general sessions in the Tabernacle was approximately 4,000 at the forenoon meeting, and 6,000 at the afternoon meeting when nearly every seat was taken. General officers of other auxiliaries, and wives of the General Authorities of the Church, also attended sessions of the Relief Society conference; Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., pronounced the benediction at the department session relating to the Relief Society Magazine.
Achievement Recognized
Recognition for achievement in the Magazine and membership drives was accorded at the department meetings relating to these activities. President Amy Brown Lyman presented a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939 to each of the twelve award-winners previously announced in the December, 1939, issue of the Magazine. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen introduced individually the representatives of the six missions and four stakes who, midway in the four-year membership drive for a general increase of one-third, had achieved a net increase of 50% or more over 1937. Identification of these stakes and missions, and their respective numerical and percentage increases, will be found in the report of the proceedings of the membership department.
Music at the Conference
At the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, Lily Priestly rendered beautifully the organ prelude and postlude, and accompanied the congregational singing which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. The Relief Society rally song, A Hundred Thousand Strong, was sung in the Assembly Hall at the close of the department meeting on membership, and during the final general session in the Tabernacle, directed, respectively, by Olive Rich, Bonneville Stake Relief Society chorister, and Beatrice F. Stevens, who composed the song.
In the music department, selections from the cantata, Resurrection Morning (words by Ida R. Alldredge, music by B. Cecil Gates), were sung by a trio composed of Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, and Virginia Freeze Barker. A special feature at the general session was the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from Kolob, Provo, Sharon, and Utah stakes, comprised of 261 singers, and directed in rotation by their respective stake directors, Zina C. Condie, Mae B. Young, Melba P. Pyne, and Edna P. Taylor. Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist, was at the console during both general sessions.
The Membership Arch
The beautiful, softly illuminated membership arch faced the congregation at the sessions of the conference held in the Assembly Hall and Tabernacle. This replica of a monumental arch presented in simple graphic form the progress of Relief Society toward its goal of 100,000 members by 1942. The lower blocks on either side of the arch were illumined in gold, representative of Relief Society membership at the close of 1937, just prior to initiation of the campaign for an increase of one-third by 1942; above these were blue-lighted blocks depicting the relative growth in membership during 1938 and 1939, and the central span, still in white, represented the anticipated growth during the two remaining years of the drive—1940 and 1941.
European Missions Featured
The withdrawal of all Church missionaries from the European missions, subsequent to the beginning of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
war in September, 1939, brought to this conference the unusual opportunity of hearing from eleven former Relief Society mission presidents, who were featured at the first general session. The invocation at this session was offered by Margaret M. Peterson, former Relief Society president of Norwegian Mission, and the benediction was by Leone Jacobs, former Relief Society president of Palestine-Syrian Mission. Summaries of the messages and memories delivered to the conference by the nine other former Relief Society presidents from European missions are included elsewhere in this report of the proceedings. The appearance of the Millennial Chorus, composed of young men who formerly served in the British Mission and directed by Bertram Willis, was especially appropriate at this meeting devoted to missionary work in Europe. This session was deeply spiritual in nature and turned the hearts and sympathies of the entire congregation to the Saints in Europe.
Demonstrations and Exhibits
Many attendants at the Relief Society conference accepted the invitation of the General Board to visit its offices on the second floor of the Bishop's Building, to view the special and beautifully prepared exhibit of temple and burial clothing, to inspect the examples of showmanship used in the membership drive in Carbon Stake, and to visit the Mormon Handicraft Shop where a variety of fine and unusual handiwork was displayed. Articles from the Shop especially representative of attractive and saleable merchandise were also displayed at the department meeting on handiwork; other exhibits of
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
handiwork were also on display at this session, and these were augmented by the remodeled clothing and by the variety of modern textiles and literature which were used in the demonstrated talks by specialists in these fields. Articles from the Mormon Handicraft Shop were also displayed at the Salt Lake Regional Storehouse where a special exhibit of Church welfare work was located during conference week.
Summarized Report of Proceedings
Following are condensed accounts of the talks presented by the speakers at the various sessions of the conference, arranged in the order of their appearance. Because of limited space, the proceedings of the membership section and of the Magazine department are withheld from this issue of the Magazine, but will appear well in advance of the fall Magazine and membership drives so that reference may be made to the original and helpful suggestions presented in these department meetings. The address of Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve, Training For Woman's Work, and of Elder Harold B. Lee, managing director of the Church welfare program, will appear later as separate articles. A summary of the discussion at the department meeting for secretary-treasurers will not appear in the Magazine, but will be mimeographed and sent to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents and secretary-treasurers.
Officers Meeting
SUMMARY OF PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN welcomed the stake and mission Relief Society officers, expressing the love and appreciation which the members of the General Board feel for the women who are conducting the work of the Society throughout the Church.
Reorganization of General Board
President Lyman reported the reorganization of the General Board of Relief Society which had occurred since the last general conference, and which became effective January 1, 1940. She spoke with gratitude of the many messages of love and loyalty sent by the stakes and missions which have welcomed and encouraged the new Board in its responsibility to serve the women of the Relief Society and in its endeavor to carry on satisfactorily the work so well established and developed by its predecessors. In a tribute to the former general president, Louise Y. Robison, her executive officers and board members, President Lyman noted the many years of faithful service which they had given as members of the General Board, pointing out that all of the retiring members had served continuously for ten years or longer, that five had served for 18 years, and 2 for 28 years. She quoted the following excerpts from a letter to the former General Board from the First Presidency:
"In releasing you, we wish to extend to you our heartfelt gratitude for the service which you have rendered, each and all of you, during your terms of office. You have carried on your work with marked success. You have been of the greatest assistance to the Priesthood in helping them to carry on their work. You have increased the knowledge and the culture of the women of the Church,... Bishops, presidents of stakes, the general authorities of the Church, including the First Presidency, have all been greatly aided in their work by your help. We commend you for your devotion, your untiring service, your sweet spirits; we thank the Lord for them."
Singing Mothers
President Lyman explained that with the reorganization of the General Board came the decision to release the central group of Singing Mothers which had functioned under its auspices, and to recommend that its fine singers identify themselves with the Re-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
lief Society choruses in their respective stakes. She expressed appreciation for the splendid achievement of the central chorus, and of the various groups of Singing Mothers throughout the Church. Looking forward to the Relief Society centennial in 1942, the General Board desires to strengthen and feature the choruses of Singing Mothers wherever they now exist or may be organized. Undoubtedly they will be featured extensively in the coming centennial, either in large groups at the general celebration or in community observances in their own localities. Hereafter, choruses from various nearby stakes will appear at Relief Society general conferences.
Organizations and Reorganizations of Stakes and Missions
In reporting the following changes which have occurred since the last conference, October, 1939, due to the creation of new stakes and the reorganization of several stakes and missions, President Lyman spoke with appreciation of the splendid women who have been released, and who will henceforth be invaluable to their local Relief Societies, and welcomed the newly appointed officers:
ORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Appointed President November 19, 1939 Inglewood (taken from Long Beach and Hollywood) Jennie Cluff (retained) October 1, 1939 Pasadena (taken from Los Angeles, Pasadena and San Bernardino) Lena W. Woodbury October 1, 1939 San Fernando (formerly Pasadena) Sadie E. Williams (retained) November 19, 1939 South Los Angeles (formerly Los Angeles) Blanche S. Hoglund (retained) November 19, 1939 Los Angeles (formerly Hollywood) Mary S. Jordan
REORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Released Appointed President February 11, 1940 Curlew Rennis A. Larkin (Disorganized; wards added to Bear River, Malad and Pocatello stakes.) October 15, 1939 Malad Maude W. Call Hannah S. Harris March 10, 1940 Mount Ogden Ethel B. Andrew Ella P. Farr February 15, 1940 Portland Birdie S. Bean Clarice G. Sloan February 11, 1940 Rexburg M. May Grover Elizabeth Stowell January 14, 1940 Timpanogos Ella M. Cragun Cora W. Atwood March 31, 1940 Twin Falls Kathryn Kirkman Afton W. Hunt November 5, 1939 Wayne Ruby M. Forsyth Ida M. Jackson
Due to the war, the European mission presidents and their wives, with the exception of President and Sister Folland of South Africa, have been released, and have returned to the United States. Relief Society presidents thus released and the missions where they served are: British, Zina C. Brown; Czechoslovak, Martha S. Toronto, Danish, Gertrude R. Garff; East German, Ida D. Rees; French, Norma S. Evans; Netherlands, Claire T. Murdock; Norwegian, Margaret M. Peterson; Palestine-Syrian, Leone Jacobs; Swedish, Virginia B. Larson; Swiss, Fawn B. McKay; West German, Evelyn N. Wood.
Mormon Handicraft
The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop is beginning its fourth year of service. The Shop and office are now combined and both are located at 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. A manager, with special training and extensive experience in the field of arts and crafts, has been placed in charge of the Shop, which is under the general direction of a committee of the General Board, and of a special advisory committee composed of Salt Lake women interested in the success of this enterprise. We appreciate the fine cooperation and loyal support given the Mormon Handicraft Shop by stake and ward Relief Societies. Ward and stake handwork leaders have given valuable assistance in appraising and accepting work to be entered in the Shop for sale. Many stake and ward Relief Societies have supported the Shop through payment of the annual membership fee of $1.00 whether or not their members consign articles for sale. Ward and stake Relief Societies are encouraged to continue this support.
Burial Clothes Department
The Burial Clothes Department maintained by the General Board is prepared to fill orders promptly, and to prepay all postal or express charges. Urgent orders are always filled and forwarded on the same day that they are received. Fast, modern means of transportation facilitates quick delivery in the United States and elsewhere. The Department specializes in burial clothing made to individual measurements for adults and children, including temple suits and all other types. Temple suits especially for temple work are also available in this Department. This temple and burial clothing is obtainable in a variety of different materials, but all qualities are characterized by the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
February 18, 1940 Woodruff 253 Harriet A. Spencer Lucille J. Thornock
same expert workmanship and immaculate condition.
Relief Society Magazine
Space in the Relief Society Magazine is very limited and it is therefore impossible to publish all the fine material which is submitted. In order to use the available space to the best advantage of all subscribers, the Magazine features items of general interest rather than those of local interest only. Upon request, an attractive gift card is sent to any individual for whom a subscription is received as a gift for a birthday, Mother's Day, Christmas, or some other occasion. The Relief Society Magazine drive is held each year from September 15 to October 15 in most of the stakes. However, Magazine work is a year-round activity, and it is a good policy for Magazine representatives to see that subscriptions are kept up during the entire year. Magazine representatives have a heavy assignment, but they are rendering a splendid service, both to the organization and to the homes into which the Magazine goes. Those wards are most successful where the officers wholeheartedly support the representative in her work. Each year in the December issue an honor toll is published recognizing the wards and stakes and Magazine representatives securing a subscription list equal to 75 percent or more of their net enrollment. Last year 501 wards and branches and 39 stakes received this recognition. This was a splendid achievement.
Relief Society Song Book
The new Relief Society Song Book is just off the press. It contains 88
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
songs, arranged in three groups—songs for the congregation, songs for special groups, and anthems. Especially arranged and reproduced by a new process, the words and music are easily read. The cover is blue, beautifully engraved in gold. Because of its special loose-leaf device, the book lies flat when opened, and additional songs may be added. The price of the song book is 85 cents each, postpaid, and is obtainable only at the office of the General Board.
Official Instructions
THE following instructions for the conduct of Relief Society work include a few new plans, but represent, for the most part, a review of established policies on many points on which there has been frequent inquiry during the past few months.
Change in Relief Society Annual Stake Conventions
As you have already noted in the Magazine for February, 1940, our stake conventions this year will be held in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as heretofore. In harmony with the new plan, the Relief Society convention for each stake will be scheduled, so far as possible, for the same day as the regular union meeting, in one of the late summer or fall months. Wherever convenient, more than one stake may be included in the same convention. When stakes with varying union meeting days are combined, the convention date cannot always coincide with the regular union meeting day in each stake. Some deviation from the regular union meeting
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
day will also be necessary in order to make it possible for members of the General Board to attend during the designated months. The convention will, in the month in which it is held, replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a convention is not scheduled may forego their union meeting in that month. Convention schedules of the auxiliaries are being planned so that they do not fall in consecutive months for the same stake, and so that no auxiliary will be deprived of more than one union meeting in order to accommodate the convention schedule of another auxiliary.
Relief Society Educational Year Shortened
In 1925 the Relief Society lesson course was shortened from 10 to 9 months and only the monthly work-and-business meeting was required during July, August, and September. The General Board now recommends, after due consideration and consultation with Relief Society women in various locations of the Church, that the regular required course of study be further shortened to an eight-month period, October through May, leaving four months—June, July, August and September—when only the monthly work-and-business meeting and the monthly calls by the visiting teachers are required, and when the stake may arrange for additional activities if it so desires. It is further recommended that all special meetings or socials, preliminary to the opening of the class work in October, be held in September and that all special review meetings or closing socials be held in June. If September and June are thus used for all special preliminary and closing meetings and activities, the educational program can extend over the full eight-month period without interruption. It is intended that this plan will be uniform throughout the Church, obviating the confusion which was apparent in the past when the study period did not begin and end simultaneously. With this shorter season for weekly meetings, stakes undoubtedly will plan union meetings during the period from September through April, and will probably not require them during the period from May through August.
Annual Review of Instructions to Stake and Ward Officers
In order to be more conversant with the duties of officers, it is recommended (1) that at the preliminary stake board meeting held in September, a portion of the time be devoted to reading and discussing together the instructions to stake and ward officers which are found in the stake record book and which appear in the Relief Society Handbook; and (2) that at a similar preliminary ward officers' meeting a portion of the time be devoted to reading and discussing together the instructions to ward officers which are found in the ward record book and which appear in the Relief Society Handbook. Many difficulties and misunderstandings may be cleared up by this means, and unnecessary correspondence avoided. Because of the constant turnover in both stake and ward officers, there are a number of new workers each year who are unfamiliar with the duties, responsibilities, and interrelationship of officers.
Ward Conferences
In some stakes, annual ward Relief Society conferences have been held in the spring, but it is the desire of the General Board that they be held in the fall of the year, when plans and study courses for the coming season can be previewed to advantage, for the information and stimulation of both present and prospective members. Sunday is preferred for these conferences, when there is an opportunity to present the work of the organization to the general membership of the ward.
Union Meeting
Extensive preliminary programs are not recommended for union meetings. The union meeting is a leadership and study meeting and the time should be devoted to the special detail work and problems of the organization, and not to entertaining features nor sermons.
Theology-and-Testimony Meeting
Reports are still coming in that there is not sufficient time for the program on theology-and-testimony day. A number of years ago the General Board recommended that where there is a large enrollment the time for this meeting be extended 15 minutes, and cover 1¾ hours—from 2 to 3:45 p. M., which should give sufficient time to cover the work. In such wards it was suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the theology and 35 minutes to testimony, leaving 25 minutes for opening and closing and for any necessary business needing attention.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
It is suggested that any business not needing immediate attention be deferred until the next meeting, and of course there should be no singing practice on this day. In smaller wards where the extra fifteen minutes may not be needed nor desired, it was suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the lesson, 20 minutes to testimony, and 25 minutes for opening and closing and business. In either case the theology lesson should close promptly at the end of 45 minutes, when testimony should begin. Testimonies need not be lengthy. Several short, spirited, testimonies may easily be given in the time allotted.
Stake Boards
It is the opinion of the General Board that some of our stake boards are too large. We recommend that when the organization is first formed the number of members be somewhat limited; that the board be filled slowly as additional members are required, and that the board be kept of such a size that it will function most efficiently. A stake board of twelve to fourteen in number is probably sufficient to carry on the work. Where too many of the able women are placed on stake boards, ward organizations are seriously hampered. This recommendation is for consideration when stake boards are being organized or reorganized, and is not a request for stakes with larger boards to make immediate reductions.
Visits of Stake Officers to Wards
Wards should not be visited too often by stake officers—most certainly not every week. All wards should be visited by stake board members at least once a year, twice
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
if possible, and more frequently if wards are easily accessible and additional visits considered profitable. Stake board members should attend Relief Society meetings in their own ward organizations as ward members as often as possible, in order to keep in close touch with the work there, and to be helpful. On March 6, 1940, the General Board ruled "that all visits to wards by stake board members as official Relief Society representatives be counted as official visits, irrespective of the occasion for which the assignment is made. This means that if board members are assigned to represent the stake board at ward conferences, at annual day celebrations, or at special meetings or socials relating to ward Relief Society work, such visits are to be counted as official visits."
Dividing Responsibility
It is felt that some of the officers are overworking. Stake and ward presidents should divide their responsibility with their counselors. It has been recommended for many years that the president have charge of welfare work and the direction of the visiting teaching, that one counselor have charge of educational work, the other of the handwork. The counselor best fitted for educational work should be given this work, and the counselor best fitted for art work, sewing, designing, etc., should handle the work department.
Reporting General Conference
The General Board suggests that stake presidents have reports made to the local workers by those who attend Relief Society conference upon their return home. A portion of the first or second union meeting after conference might be devoted largely to such reports.
"Progress of the Church"
At our request the Presiding Bishopric has very kindly consented to supply each Relief Society stake and mission president with a copy of all future issues of The Progress of the Church. This monthly publication, sent out regularly from the Presiding Bishop's office to the presiding Priesthood, will be both interesting and valuable to Relief Society women, helping them to understand and support the program of the Priesthood. The copies to be sent to Relief Society stakes and mission presidents are for their information and reference only; they are not sent with the idea that you should make suggestions to the Priesthood regarding their work.
Relief Society Funds
Charity funds of the Relief Society are to be used strictly for the purpose for which they were obtained. Every cent donated for charity should be used for the care of those in need. In the February, 1940, Progress of the Church appears the following ruling from the Presiding Bishopric on Relief Society funds in general:
"Relief Society funds, having been secured for definite and specific purposes, should not be drawn upon for other uses. Under no circumstances should bishops draw upon Relief Society funds for ward purposes, buildings or other needs. Such funds are to remain with the Relief Society officers to be expended as provided in the plan of the Church, and not for other purposes."
With respect to the use of Relief Society funds in furnishing the Relief Society room in a ward chapel, the Presiding Bishopric has informed us that if the room is assigned to the Relief Society only, the Society bears the cost of its furnishings; if the room is used by other groups as well as by the Relief Society, its furnishing is a part of the total cost of the building and is paid from the funds available to the bishop for building purposes. Relief Society officers are sometimes asked to lend the funds of the organization. The General Board emphasizes again the specific ruling on this matter which appears in the Relief Society Handbook, page 189:
"The Relief Society is not a loan agency. Requests for loans should be referred to banks or other loan agencies. Relief Society money should not be loaned to Relief Society officers during their incumbency, nor to other individuals." (See also Relief Society Handbook, pages 176-188.)
Relief Society Funds and the Ward Budget Plan
In the budget plan for the wards as set up by the Presiding Bishopric, an exception has been made regarding Relief Society funds. In the Progress of the Church for February, 1939, August, 1939, and January, 1940, it is stated plainly that the Relief Society charity funds, annual dues, and other collections are to be excluded from the ward budget. The only exception to this ruling might be made in connection with the general fund, which is an expense or operating fund. If desirable, this fund might be made available through the ward budget.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
Wherever the general fund of the Relief Society is obtained through the ward budget, the amount requested of the bishop when the ward budget is set up may be determined on the basis of the yearly average of Relief Society expense for general purposes incurred during the three preceding years.
Bazaars
There is no reason why a Relief Society should not hold bazaars if it desires to do so, so long as no admission fee is charged, and no remade articles are sold.
Class Leaders
Class leaders should be chosen from among Church members. Nonmembers may assist in literary and social service lessons, but it is preferable that those named as class leaders be Latter-day Saints. There may be exceptions to this in the missions.
Visiting Teachers
Likewise, visiting teachers should be selected from among Church members, as they are expected to be able to discuss and explain the Gospel. There may also be exceptions to this in the missions. Reference is made to the new ruling announced at the last general Relief Society conference, October, 1939, "that when a reorganization of a ward Relief Society takes place, all visiting teachers are to be released when the president is released." It was explained at that time that in many wards there are inactive visiting teachers who are unable to carry on and would welcome an honorable release. Visiting teachers should attend Relief Society meetings regularly. They cannot expect to be influential
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
in getting others to attend unless they set the example themselves. Neither can they stimulate interest in the meetings and the program unless they attend regularly. The General Board recommends that visiting teachers be sustained at Relief Society ward conferences along with the officers and class leaders. They may be sustained in a group, but it is preferable that their names be read.
New Members
With the progress of the membership drive many questions have come in regarding new members. The Handbook is quite clear on this subject. It is suggested that the wards make it a general practice to receive new members on work-and-business day, although they may be admitted at any meeting. Before new members are admitted, the duties and privileges of membership should be thoroughly explained to them, including responsibility regarding annual membership dues, monthly charitable contributions, attendance at meetings, etc. Prospective members should not be urged to join until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization. When members are enrolled for the first time, it is expected that they pay their membership dues for the year in which they are admitted. However, when new members enter the organization after September 30, the dues paid at that time should be considered as covering the remainder of the current year and also the following calendar year. New members should be hospitably received and introduced to others. It sometimes happens that 299 when a Relief Society woman moves to a new ward, she is left to get acquainted as best she can. In some wards a special committee is appointed to look after new members. When a memiber moves from one ward to another, she should present her membership card to the new ward and be presented and received by formal vote in a regular meeting. (See instructions in Relief Society Handbook and ward record book.) Circular Letters It is the responsibility of stake officers to transmit to the wards information sent out in circular letters. Frequent inquiries at the office of the General Board about matters that have been explained either at conference or by circular letter to the stake presidents indicate that stake officers sometimes neglect to keep their ward officers informed. Official Correspondence to be Conducted Through the General Office Stakes should address all official correspondence to the general office and not to various members of the General Board. All official correspondence should be answered through the secretary's office, so that copies of all letters may be properly filed for future reference. This ruling does not apply to personal correspondence, but to official correspondence relating to the Relief Society. All letters to the general office from Relief Societies in wards and branches containing questions about local work are referred back to their respective stake and mission Relief Society presidents for answer and instruction. 300 Cooperation of Relief Society With Other Agencies Questions constantly arise regarding the advisability of Relief Society responding to requests of other groups, agencies, and individuals, for assistance in carrying out their programs and in helping them in the raising of funds for their work. The policy of the General Board is for the Relief Society to conserve its energy, strength, and funds for its own maintenance and special work and that the Society should not be used to promote the work of other organizations or of individuals. This statement does not apply to Relief Society women as individuals—they are, of course, free to take up any work they see fit. There is no objection, however, to the Relief Society cooperating with other agencies in community betterment programs or social action, but it is advised that the organization maintain its own identity in all such cooperative work. Executive Officers Responsible tor Business Affairs of Society The executive officers are responsible for the business of the Society. All of them should be acquainted with the financial transactions, and important or unusual expenditures of Relief Society funds should be made only with their full knowledge and approval. In some stakes there is a tendency to leave all business matters to the discretion of the secretary, or of the secretary and president. These two officers need the support and protection of the counselors with respect to financial matters. At least once a year, preferably at the time the annual report is prepared, all the executive officers should carefully review the affairs of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 society, and should sign the annual report with the personal knowledge that it represents an accurate accounting of the funds. This need not apply to the confidential details of charity payments to individuals which are issued by the ward president in cooperation with the bishop. Funerals on Tuesday It has been reported that funerals in Our various communities are often set for Tuesday afternoon, interfering greatly with regular Relief Society meetings. It is suggested that Relief Society stake presidents discuss this matter with the local Priesthood authorities with a view of asking for an adjustment in this respect. V Sewing in Relief Society Meetings The question constantly arises regarding sewing in Relief Society meetings. The ruling of the General Board is that no sewing should be permitted in any Relief Society meeting except the work-and-business meeting, which is primarily for handwork and business. Even in this meeting, during the first short period when instruction on nutrition or other subjects is being given, sewing should be postponed until the discussion period which follows the formal presentation of the topic. Hymn-Singing Project A hymn-singing project for the entire Church membership has been inaugurated. This project contemplates the learning of a new hymn every month by all congregations throughout the Church. These hymns are selected by the General Music Committee, and direction for their presentation will appear in the Improvement Era, beginning with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the April issue. (See Relief Society Magazine, April, 1940, page 257. Beautification Program An important new project, inaugurated during the past year by the Presiding Bishopric, is the beautification program for cleaning and beautifying both the interior and exterior of chapels and homes throughout the Church. We bespeak for this program the immediate and valuable cooperation of our Relief Society women. Upon request of the Priesthood authorities, a representative of 301 the Society will be a member of the beautification committee in each stake and ward. These committees will work out plans for their respective localities. The Sacrament Table In connection with Church beautification, the General Board suggests that Relief Society women offer to give assistance to the bishop in seeing that the Sacrament linens are of suitable quality and size, immaculate in appearance, and properly folded and cared for between meetings. ——— ANNUAL REPORT Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer BEFORE presenting data from the annual report for 1939, I should like to quote some pertinent excerpts from an article by the noted writer, Pearl Buck, which appeared in Harpers' Magazine for July of last year. In that article she dealt particularly with the millions of American women who have surplus time, energy, and ability which they do not know how to use. They have surplus time because of modern housekeeping conveniences, the availability of ready-made clothing, fast, modern means of communication and transportation, because on the average their families are small or grown, because they are not compelled to earn their living, and many of them can hire someone to care for their homes and children. The women who compose this large group usually have a fair or even an excellent education. To use the exact words of Pearl Buck—"Spoiled, petty, restless, idle, they are our nation's greatest unused resource — good brains going to waste in bridge and movies and dull gossip, instead of constructively applied to the nation's need of them.... The most tragic person in our civilization is the middle-aged woman whose duties in the home are finished, whose children are gone, and who is in her mental and physical prime and yet feels there is no more need for her... 2" Mrs. Buck then proceeds to outline constructive work which women might do (and you will recognize their counterpart in the activities of Relief Society women) to improve conditions locally and nationally in the interest of children, education, health, maternity care, housing, legislation, and community beautification. As I read these observations, I felt a new appreciation for the opportunities for work, for growth and development which our Church provides for women. I marvel that 98 years ago, when 302 women generally were completely occupied within their own homes, that the Prophet Joseph Smith should have organized the Relief Society for women, telling its first members, "You are now placed in a situation where you can act accord- 'ing to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms... This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls... And knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." There should be no discontent from idleness among. The 86,000 women who are members of the Relief Society. There should be no good brains going to waste among Relief Society women who, during the year 1939, attended an aggregate of nearly 77,000 meetings, of which 71,000 were study or handwork groups in the local organizations, and 6,000 were stake or ward conferences and officers' planning meetings. The roll call gave some indication of the geographic distribution of Relief Society organizations. There are 78,500 women in the Relief Societies which are located in 43 of the 48 states in this country, in the District of Columbia, and in the territories of Alaska and Hawaii. There are 7,500 women in Relief Societies in foreign lands. The largest entollment in a local Relief Society is 197 in the Second Ward in Mesa, Arizona, and some of the smallest Societies, consisting of 3 members each, are in Samoa, New Zealand, and Tonga. UT data from the annual report are more significant when compared with a preceding period. By this means we gauge changes which are occurring, and measure our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 growth. Twenty years ago this April I began several years of service in the office of the General Board, and so to me it has been both interesting and revealing to compare this annual report of 1939 with that of 1919. During these two decades the number of stakes has grown from 69 to 128, and the number of local Relief Societies in the stakes and missions has advanced from 1,109 to 2,077. In 1919, 78 years after the organization of the Relief Society, its membership was recorded at 45,413, but during the following 20 years the membership nearly doubled—reaching 86,142 by the end of December, 1939. The 1939 membership represents an increase of 5,902 over that of 1938— the largest gain in one year's time ever recorded in the history of the Society. This host of new members, congregated together, would fill practically all available seats in the Tabernacle. The fact that a larger portion of membership is now assigned to special duty is significant. For example, in 1919, less than half the members were serving as officers or as visiting teachers; in 1939, twothirds of the members were serving in these capacities, providing opportunity for special development and service for a greater number of women. There were three times as many ward officers in 1939 as in 1919, and twice as many visiting teachers. A tremendous increase in the activities of the visiting teachers has occurred during the past 20 years. More than one million calls were made to the homes by these friendly visitors during 1939—10 times as many as in 1919. In fact, there was an average of only 3 visits per year RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to each member's family twenty years ago, as compared with an average of 13 visits per member last year. Another significant change is found in the decreasing number of days spent in the care of the sick. Despite the considerably smaller membership in 1919, 10,000 more days were spent in the care of the sick than in 1939. On the other hand, special visits to the sick increased from 86,000 to 214,000. Several factors may be responsible for this decided shift from the all-day care of the sick to special visits in their behalf. Fluctuation in the extent of sickness is an important factor, but perhaps one of the main reasons is the greater availability of both public and private nursing service, so that families are no longer so dependent on Relief Society women for this care. This situation presents a typical example of the way in which Relief Society women meet the immediate need but also plan constructively for the future. They spend thousands of days each year in the actual care of the sick, but, at the same time, the organization is fostering the development of skilled nursing service. The Relief Society early recognized the need for more nurses in Our communities, and for several years prior to 1920, conducted classes in practical nursing which were attended by hundreds of young women. During the twenty-year period under comparison, the Relief Society has sponsored more extensive training for nurses, experimenting for three years with one-year hospital courses for nurse aids, followed by the establishment in 1923 of a loan fund to enable girls to enter hospitals for standard three-year courses, and in 1926 of a loan fund 303 for graduate nurses desiring to take training in public health nursing. To date a total of 68 young women have utilized these funds—51 for under-graduate training and 17 for training in public health nursing. In 1939, Relief Society women prepared 1,361 bodies for burial— only half as many as in 1919. This is an indication, I would say, of the increasing availability of the services of morticians in outlying districts. During 1939, Relief Society organizations—wards, stakes, missions. And the General Board, disbursed a total of $373,782.48, more than double the amount disbursed twenty years earlier, in 1919. Payments for charitable purposes last year amounted to $97,244.44, an increase of 23 percent over charity payments in igig. Of this amount, $58,968.32, or 70 percent, represents direct assistance to families in their homes, the remaining $38,276.12, or 30 percent, was for preventive and cortective health work, the purchase of eyeglasses and other medical and surgical appliances, cooperation with other agencies in dental and health clinics, and sponsorship of service and vocational training projects. In addition, the Relief Society distributed commodities, mostly food and clothing, valued at $19,933.58. Throughout the Church the Relief Societies are cooperating wholeheartedly with the broader Church welfare program. Reports indicate that they are collecting commodities, making quilts, canning and drying foods, preparing wool, making and remodeling clothing—which are turned over to and distributed through the stake bishops' storehouses, and which, therefore, are not included in the figures of Relief 304 Society disbursements which I have quoted. On the whole, these few bare facts can give but little indication of the scope and value of Relief Society work to the needy, to the communi- 'ty, and to the members themselves. [ts educational, cultural, and spiritual values, its individual and community service, can never be fully measured and expressed in statistical terms. In conclusion, I should like to repeat the following words of Eliza R. Snow, the first secretary of Relief Society, which were a part of the first annual report of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, for the year ending March 17, 1843, and which are (Note: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 still applicable: "We hope the ladies of the Society will feel encouraged to renew their exertions knowing that the blessings of the poor are resting upon them. We feel assured from what has passed under our personal observation, that many during the inclemency of the winter were not only relieved, but preserved from famishing, through their instrumentality. More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipation predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?" The detailed financial and statistical report for 1939 will appear in the June issue of the Magazine.) LET US DO SOMETHING ABOUT SMOKING: Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve "In consequence of evils and designs that do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men I have warned you and forewarn you by giving unto you this word of wisdom." it is contrary to the laws of the state of Utah, and I presume of many other states and communities, to furnish minors with cigarettes and liquor. I will read you a few words from the statutes of the state of Utah: "Any person who furnishes to any minor by gift, sale, or otherwise any cigarette or cigarette papet or wrapper, Or any paper made or prepared for the purpose of making cigarettes, or any tobacco of any kind whatsoever, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $299 or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Title 93, Chapter 1, Article 12.) "\.. It is also a misdemeanor... For the proprietor of any place of business to knowingly permit minors to frequent such place of business while they are using tobacco. The term place of business as here used shail apply to any and all such places as shops, stores, factories, public garages, offices, theatres, recreation and dance halls, pool rooms, cafes, cafeterias, cabarets, restaurants, passenger coaches, and waiting rooms." (Title 93, Chapter 3, Article 1.) In a letter inaugurating the Church campaign for the non-use of liquor and tobacco, written nearly three years ago, the First Presidency, among other things, said: "We comOmitted from this summary of Elder Mermill's address are extensive quotations from the article, The Smoke Nuisance, by Dr. T. J. Howells, Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City, which appeared in full in the Relief Society Magazine, April, 1940, page 262. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Recommend your plan to make this campaign a project for all the Priesthood quorums, both Melchizedek and Aaronic, charging the quorums with the responsibility of (a) keeping. Their own members free from the vice of using alcohol and tobacco, and (b) assisting all others to do likewise... "Auxiliary organizations should give to the Priesthood quorums such help in the campaign as may be consistently requested of them by Priesthood quorums." The Relief Society has to date given the most effective support to this campaign of any of the auxiliaries, and' that is not discounting what the other auxiliaries have done. The word "campaign" is used advisedly. It means a movement that goes forward actively, enthusiastically, earnestly and persistently, and that is the way we would like to have the campaign for the non-use of liquor and tobacco considered. There has recently occurred something very significant to this campaign in the state of Utah. The last legislature passed two laws, making it the duty of the State Department of Education to provide a program of education in the schools on the evil effects of the use of narcotics, and to direct a program of character education. In both these cases, instruction and training in character education and in the harmful effects of narcotics, the laws indicate the schools should lead in organizing the communities so that there would be a unified effort to train the children in the home, in the school, on the playgrounds, in places of amusement and tecreation, and elsewhere, so that they would be led away from. The use of narcotics, and would be developed in the essential principles of good 305 character. I was delighted, as I presume you were, to read in the papers last evening that the State Department has now gone a step forward and appointed a director whose duty it is to devote his full time to carrying out the purposes of these two laws. Thus, in the state of Utah, if we respond now to the opportunity that the law has provided, we shall make of this state an outstanding one in the states of this nation relative to narcotic education and to character building. Now with respect to character building, may I say again that I think there is no organization in our Church which can render such effective help in both phases that I have indicated, as this organization, and so the question arises as to what you may do. 1. Continue your cooperation, because this campaign, sisters, is not for the season, it is not for the year, but it is to continue with the objective of getting a trained youth in the Church that will grow up free from the vice of using narcotics, and a youth that is founded solidly upon the principles of honesty, virtue, morality, and all the other good qualities. 2. May I urge that you do something about law enforcement in this state, and in other states where there are similar laws. Now the municipal organizations of Utah, as well as the organization of county officers, has each in its annual convention in this state unanimously resolved that it favors enforcement of these laws; but no laws will be enforced without public support. If you do nothing about it, if no one else does anything about it, but leaves it to the enforcement officers, nothing will be done. The law on the statute books 306 of this state forbidding the giving or selling of tobacco in any form to minors, and stating that they cannot use tobacco in any of the public places I have indicated, has been on the statute book for a number of years, but it has not been enforced. So may I ask, sisters, that your organization in all of your communities and in all of your wards and districts, contact the enforcement officers in your towns and cities and counties, with a request that they enforce this anti-narcotic law, and keep in contact with them, and check them up. 3. Again may I ask. That you actively cooperate with the schools. The law I spoke of, passed by the last legislature, contemplates that there shall be established under the leadership of the public schools, active cooperation in character building. Now, of course, character building to us means to be developed and trained in all of those factors that will make a boy or girl an ideal citizen as well as an ideal member of the Church. 4. May I suggest that you do something that is characteristic of Relief Society, and carry it forward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 —something that will be indicative of your efficiency and of your loyalty to the cause. 5. May I say that in my opinion the most effective work that you can do, or any of us can do, is to so live and teach our families that we will demonstrate to all who see or hear us that we ourselves are earnest and sincere in this matter. Why should we eliminate smoking, and why should we get a generation growing up free from the vice of smoking? Sisters, there is nothing in the Church that is so surely and so certainly killing the faith of our boys, and unfortunately, of some of our girls, as the cigarette. It is the faith of our boys and girls that we are trying to develop, because if we can develop that faith taught by the Church, we shall have boys and girls who will be an honor and a pride to their homes, to us, and to the Church. And so, my sisters, I plead with you to use your influence in your efficient and well-organized ways to help out this campaign in the ways indicated, and in any other way that you may find effective. LOOKING FORWARD TO 1942 Mary Grant Judd Member of General Board of Relief Society wat a glorious thought that in two short years from now our great Relief Society organization will have given one hundred years in service to humanity?. Who could even begin to enumerate the countless unselfish acts which have gone to form this long chain extending across the past century, and which is unbroken, except for the rather brief space when the original pioneers were making the great westward trek. Surely such an achievement deserves the best we can give in the way of our 1942 centennial observance. Much of the joy of any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE event comes from anticipation as well as from realization, and a joy shared is a joy increased. Let your plans go forward joyfully and prayerfully. By rare good fortune, the actual anniversary date—March 17—falls, in 1942, on Tuesday, our regular meeting day, so it will be particularly fitting for the local organizations to stage their celebrations on that day. We suggest that, where possible, this be done in a stake capacity rather than in separate wards, so that both efforts and funds can be combined to accomplish something really outstanding. But this, like all your efforts, must be determined by your local conditions. Begin planning now, for it is not too soon. The General Board feels that, following the local celebrations, the logical time for a large general observance will be at the time of the regular conference in April of 1942. Weare looking, so to speak, through our opera glasses from the big toward the little end at this time, and at some future conference we shall turn the glasses around and give you a magnified view of what is in store. In the meantime, we are earnestly seeking for inspirational ideas to add to those we already have in mind, and shall be more than happy to consider any suggestions you may send in. 307 Anniversaries are important occasions, not only for the inspiration rgceived at the actual time, but in retrospect because of the joy which memories bring. Our 1942 celebration will belong to every member of the Society. Many women, otherwise unable to do so, may be able to join us in the general celebration if they start. Planning and saving now. Our centennial observance must comprehend much more than the actual seventeenth day of March. We want the entire year 1942 to be known as "Relief Society Centennial year," not only to those within the Church but to everyone. There is no other woman's organization extant that has functioned continually over a period of one hundred years. This is "news" and we believe some of our big national magazines which report current happenings will be eager to give us space in their columns. What better missionary medium could the Church ask for than a report through these sources conceming our organization, what it stands for, and what it has accomplished during the past century! Let us all try to sense the great importance of the occasion which faces us. Let us join hands, unitedly resolved to suitably commemorate our centennial anniversary. BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, of the Presiding Bishopric I SOMETIMES wonder if we really cooperate with one another just the way we ought. If we would get back of one another just a little bit better, we would cut a bigger swath. While on a mission, I ran across this quotation by Kerr Hardy, one of the biggest socialists in Scotland in his 308 time. He once said, in addressing a socialist meeting, "If we do nothing more than preach socialism, we are as harmless as the men who preac about religion." I wonder if we sometimes talk too much and do too little. I am reminded of the young English lad who had just come over here and was hired by a farmer. He knew more about a cotton mill than he. Did about horses and pigs on the farm. As he came in one night before supper, Farmer John said, "Well, William, have you fed the geese?" He replied, "Yes, Mr. Brown." "What did you feed them?" asked ' the farmer. "T fed them hay." "Well, did they eat it?" The young lad's response was, "I do not know, Mr. Brown, but when I left them they were talking about it." Now, do we chatter too much, or do we get in gear? The important thing, of course, is to act. There is nothing new about the beautification program for our homes and churches. One of the first things the pioneers did was to beautify, and they brought over the Plains trees, shrubs, and seeds, and endeavored to make their homes beautiful. We ought to get back to some of the old principles. The other day I was told this little incident about a woman whose baby had a cold on its lungs. When the doctor was called, he said, "My dear, if I were you, I would give this baby a mustard plaster and do it quick." She replied, "But doctor, isn't that rather old-fashioned?" He said, "Yes, my dear, but so are babies." We have just got to get back to some real, honest - togoodness old-fashioned methods. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 It is a pitiful sight to see, as you go through the country, the dilapidated fences and barns, and unpainted houses and ragged yards. Now I have enough sense to appreciate how some people are struggling. There are some who may not be as fortunate as the rest of us, but it does not take a great deal of money to improve our surroundings. It does take elbow-grease and a little thinking. It takes a little motion which otherwise may be lost in whittling and spitting. I picked up a book the other day and read this story of a new maid who had gone to a house to work. It seemed that the folks of the house where she worked had a turtle. Of course, turtles hibernate during the winter. (To all intents and purposes, they hibernate all the time, but in the winter they sleep more soundly than at other times.) In seeking for a place to be quiet and dark this turtle went into the coalshed, down in the basement. He stayed there and slept soundly. About April first the maid, who had been employed in the fall, went down into the basement and got the scare of her life. This April morning the rays of the sun somehow had gotten down into the basement and touched the turtle; and he started to make his way to the foot of the stairs. The girl, on reaching the basement, threw up her hands, rushed upstairs, and hysterically screamed, "Good heavens, is this house spooky? That flat stone on which I have broken. All the winter's coal is crawling around." Now maybe that is just a bit exaggerated, but sometimes you can pound, and pound, and pound, and there is no awakening whatsoever. What are we doing about some of these essential things? If you cannot RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE keep your boy or girl at home because of the shabby conditions around your place, I believe the improvement of your surroundings would be a religious contribution. In the Church beautification program we are trying to do two things. The first is to organize a committee in each ward. On that committee should be a representative of the Relief Society, Sunday School and the different organizations of the ward. Each organization will instill into its members the ideals that should be put into action regarding their own homes, inside and out. That committee will divide up its work so that they will have a real honest-to-goodness program, benefiting our Church buildings inside and out. In other words, first, individual salvation, and second, if you please, general salvation—the home and the Church. Now as you do that, you are preaching religion about the finest way you can. You will hold your young people. Sometimes they drift away because our home conditions are not what they should be. Second, each stake should have a corresponding committee. There should be a connection between the Relief Society member of the stake = 309 committee and the Relief Society member of the ward committee. If you find that a bishop is rather slow on his feet, will you please throw modesty away and if necessary use a "fire-cracker," hoping it will take effect so that he will appoint that committee.. As President Clark stated recently, initiative is fundamental; we are not going to map out everything at headquarters and leave you without opportunity to initiate your own activities. We do not think as much as we should. Just what are you doing about it? Are you thinking of the problems ahead of you, or are you waiting for somebody at headquarters to continually urge and plan for you? I went to a Scotch reunion the other night, and I heard this story: Before the Battle of Trafalgar, Nelson called his officers together, looked into their eyes and exclaimed, "England expects this day that every man shall do his duty." Two Scotchmen were standing side by side. One nudged the other and said, "Do ye ken, he didna mention the Scotch." The other Scotchman, who was just as fast on the trigger, poked him back and said, "The Scotch dinna need to be telt." Do you need to be "telt''? Social Welfare Department THE PLACE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PROGRAM Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards N this great welfare program it occurs to me that there is a place for the Relief Society even more important than service in canning fruit, making clothing, mending, and doing such things. The Relief Society can do many other things and do them very capably and well, and 310 probably far better than some of the brethren could do. I would rather trust any Relief Society president who served under me to go into a home and analyze the needs of that home, and submit them to me, than to do it myself, and I believe that is true in most cases. Now we want to do all we should to help the people of the Church who are in need, the worthy poor, in fact, all the poor; but the thing we ought to be sure about is that we know what they need. So often we do not know what we should do, and so we give them an order on the storehouse, or send over a package of groceries, or we give them ten dollars, and we think the job has been taken care of. I once zead this statement—"What would make a good meal for a sparrow would make a very poor meal for an elephant," and I think this might apply to welfare work. What would take care of one family's needs would be far insufficient and madequate for the needs of another. How are we going to take care of their needs unless we know the facts concerning the family, and that is where the Relief Society fits into the program. If you go into a bank and want to make a loan, and they have never seen you before, they do not give you $100 and ask you to sign a note; they want to know who you are, who your people are, what you do for 2 living, and what possibilities you have for repaying the loan. There is a creditrating bureau where you may get a rating on a man as to whether he has paid his bills, whether he has been in default, whether judgment has been taken against him. Some people move from one ward to another hoping they will find the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 bishop mote liberal than the one in the ward in which they have been living. There is a transient group that always thinks the other fellow's pasture is greener than their own. Then we have those who move from ward to ward in the natural course of events, and the tendency on the part of the bishop is to say, "You are not a member of our ward, and we cannot do anything for you." So we have asked the bishops to assume responsibility for all members living in their wards, whether their recommends have been received or not. However, in doing this it would be proper, if the recommends have not been received, for the bishops to determine whether they are getting help from the wards from which they came. As I have said before, it is our responsibility to help those who need help, but we should know whether they need help before we extend it, and what kind of help they need. HAVE an interesting statement here prepared by our medical social worker who operates out of the Presiding Bishop's Office, reporting all cases that were handled through that department during the year 1939. This, better than I could put it in words, illustrates what I mean by the intelligent handling of. Cases that need attention, showing that they do not all require the same remedy and the same assistance. Before this department was set up, and we began to analyze the cases, for instance, that were recommended to the L. D. S. Hospital (and this report deals largely with that hospital), we found people there at Church expense who had substantial bank accounts. We found people who were well able to pay their hospital bills, but the bish- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ops just thought they were. Good people and so they were given recommends to the hospital. President Grant tells the story of one man who was sent there on a bishop's recommend, and when he went to get his release the superintendent said, "I suppose you know you are a charity case, and that your name will so appear on the records." "No," he said, "I am not a charity case," and he pulled out his check-book and wrote a check for the hospital bill. One case was reported where a good woman was sent to the hospital by her son, who was a bishop, and we felt sure he was worth not less than $50,000, but he felt that his mother had been a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, and that she was entitled to assistance from the Church. We found one case where a man was not even a member of our Church, and we took it up with the church to which he belonged, and they said, "We do not expect you to pay for our members," and they sent a check to pay for the hospital bill. These are some of the conditions that were found where, without studying the cases, they were just given orders on the hospital. A total of 764 applications for haspital care were cleared through our medical social worker last year. Of this number we took care of 452 cases in the hospital. 'They were distributed among the various Church hospitals, including the Primary Hospital for children. Out of these 452 cases, we had 149 that could have been sent to the County Hospital. The only reason we did not send them to the County Hospital was because they were faithful Latter-day Saints and entitled to our services, and we gave them, and gave them 311 freely and gladly because they were worthy of that assistance. In addition to the hospital cases we took care of others in convalescent homes, some in doctors' offices, some were provided with glasses, some with false teeth, one with an artificial limb, some with physiotherapy treatments, and so forth. So you see they did not all require the same kind of assistance, and it was our responsibility to find out what kind of help they did need. Then we referred to other sources 279 cases, which in the ordinary course of events would have been largely taken care of because the bishops did not have time to investigate and see what the conditions were. Out of those 279 cases, 52 of them were able to make arrangements to pay their own bills for the care they received. The thought I would like to leave with you is this—out of 764 cases, no one was sent away unprovided for, but they were cared for intelligently after knowing what their needs were, and what the possibilities were of their paying their accounts themselves. We are recommending that all applications for assistance be cleared through the Relief Society. Here in Salt Lake County we have a Social Service Department under the direction of the Relief Society. This department is a member of the Social Service Exchange, and is entitled to clear cases through this community index. Outside of Salt Lake, if there is no community exchange in your locality, you should clear with your County Welfare Department. That means that we will check up and find out how many agencies are taking care of these people who ate being looked after. 312 In some cases we find that the Church is caring for them as well as other charity organizations, and there are some people who go around and get help from as many agencies as they can. It may be in some cases it is necessary to supplement the help given by other agencies, but when we do so we ought to do it with their knowledge and our knowledge, so we know that what is being given is supplemental help, and each agency understands where its responsibility begins and where it ends. We, as a community, owe it to the people to take care of those who are in need, but we should take care of them in an intelligent manner by knowing what their needs are, and by clearing with other agencies so that the assistance will not be duplicated. "THROUGH courses conducted by the Relief Society, Relief Society representatives in various stakes have been trained to make these check-ups and to do this clearing, how to go about it in an intelligent manner. Then these Relief Society workers, when they have used the ability and training they have to obtain this information, must give this information to the bishop of the ward who has the right to determine what should be done. He can take the matter up with the ward welfare committee, and they can decide what help should be rendered, but when they make that decision it should be with the information in their possession that these Relief Society workers are able to furnish and provide through the clearing of these various cases. I am sure the Relief Society is ready to do its part. This is an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 intelligent service. We must realize that we are not just a social agency, but we are the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in all our work there must be the spirit of the Christ, the spirit of helpfulness, and above all things we must guard and protect the honor of the families we have to minister to and care for. We want to realize that the service is greater than feeding the hungry and clothing the naked. We want to make these members feel that they have a place in society, that they belong to the Church, and that we love them. They are our brothers and sisters, and we want to help when help is necessary in such a way and with such a spirit that the children will not grow up to feel that they are underprivileged, and that they are not wanted in society; that they are less desirable than other children in the community. There are many safeguards that should be placed around our work. Again I say to you that I think the usefulness of the Relief Society goes far beyond sewing and canning and doing these menial things that have to be done. I think it can render an intelligent service in the Church comparable to the service that our wives render in our homes. We men must be able to provide the wherewithal, but our companions provide inspiration, guidance, care, and wisdom that lead our children to success. That is what I think the Relief Society can do in the Church; that is what I think they have been doing for a long time, besides provoking their husbands to good works, as you so often hear.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
SOCIAL SERVICE Leona B. Fetzer Member of General Board of Relief Society
"A tract of country is not less romantic if we carry a map, nor is our effort to assist those in need less sacred if we approach our task with skill and knowledge."
MILLIONS in our nation are on the ragged edge of low income. They will be with us for long years, and public funds of necessity will be needed to supply their wants. Many special and particular needs, not otherwise attainable, are being supplied by the Church to faithful members, the denial of which could be crippling. The welfare of those in need is always the guide to our endeavors. We should limit our work to what we can do, and what we can do well. We should stimulate people to use their own and the community's resources, and to develop special interests. We should encourage simple living. Our goal is to enrich family life, and to help preserve it when it is threatened. We are asked to bring a healing virtue to those who toil and to those who are overburdened, so that they will be able to perform their work with steadfastness and purpose. Not only must we provide opportunities for the satisfaction of the simple fundamental, human needs, but at the same time we must develop the breadth and depth of the human spirit which comes from apprehending the eternal while abiding amid the temporal and the changing.
A RELIEF SOCIETY PROJECT IN PIONEER STAKE Lottie Fullmer President of Pioneer Stake Relief Society
ONE of our branches, organized less than two years ago, is composed largely of people who have lost their homes, and have had to depend on community agencies for subsistence. They have settled where they could buy a small piece of ground for what they could afford to pay, and have established small, humble homes there, the majority of them being just a shell and roof. We found that housekeeping conditions there were very poor, that these little shells had no conveniences whatever. We found in our survey that a number of the homes had made some arrangements for the protection of food supplies and dishes, but they had no place to put their clothing, washing and ironing. We tried to put ourselves in their positions, and wondered if we could keep up our pride if we were living in the same situation. So we discussed what we might do to meet their problems. We decided cupboard room and drawer room was their immediate need; so we met with our stake presidency and got their approval on the project we were about to undertake, and then we met with the presiding elder there, and their work director, and discussed our plan with them. So we set forth to build cabinets and wardrobes to put into the homes where these people might be lifted up to a higher standard of housekeeping, where they might have some place to put the things they had made such an effort to obtain. The Relief Society furnished the material, and the work director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
there, who is a capable carpenter, supervised the work. The Relief Society also furnished the paint, but with the understanding that those who were to receive the cabinets must go to a central place and paint them; if they took them into their homes first, they possibly would not get painted. The hearts of these people are full of gratitude.
Work-and-Business Department
TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION, 1940-41 Ethel B. Andrew Member of General Board of Relief Society
THE work day is your opportunity day. The members of your organization should be considered and their interests recognized in planning the day's program and in making it an enjoyable social, as well as an adventure in new and interesting phases of homemaking. We mothers are responsible for the health of our families. Their health depends largely on what they eat. There are 30,000,000 homes in the United States. In every one of these homes, food is being prepared daily. The problem of what to eat becomes an important factor in the health of our nation. We have always known that we eat to live, but we are fast learning that what we eat has an important bearing upon how long we shall live and the degree of health we shall enjoy. Active research and general education along nutritional lines have made a definite improvement in the health of our children and a marked decrease in infant mortality. The nutrition lessons are optional, but the vital need of them is apparent. For the 1940-41 lesson season they are being approached from a different angle; i. e., what to eat to make better teeth and bones, hair and fingernails, skin, eyes, posture and muscle tone, dietary reinforcements, food for old people, and helpful and healthful party menus. Suggested menus and recipes, ideas on textiles, conservation, better housing, and better homemaking will be given. Make your lessons practical to fit your own group and remember that one objective of the work-and-business day is to make us better and more understanding mothers, to make our homes more livable, our family life happier, that we may indeed find life at its best.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
NEW CLOTHING FROM OLD (A summary of comments which accompanied a demonstration of remodeled clothing) By Susie Sanford Clothing Specialist, Utah State Agricultural College
THERE are two very important psychological factors concerned with clothing. One is the fact that clothing affects individual happiness and character development; the other is that an individual's clothing affects other people. One of the major expenditures of the family is for clothing, and in times of economic stress the mother has a great responsibility, not only in buying clothing, but in taking care of the clothing already on hand. What is saved is just as good as what is earned. There are many thrift practices which can be followed. Care of clothing is of first importance. A simple costume well cared for is far better than an expensive one that doesn't show care. Just the habit of hanging up clothes can help your clothing problems. Another helpful practice is proper storage. Learning to clean, to spot, to press, to do safe home dry cleaning will also save money. Removing dust and spots as soon as possible will lengthen the life of clothing. Good laundering methods will also lengthen it. An article that is carefully laundered when only slightly soiled will last a lot longer than clothing that becomes very soiled and has to be laundered so hard that the fibers are affected.
In making over clothing, there are many things to consider: first of all, the time and ability of the homemaker; second, what there is to be made over, and the condition that it is in. It is not profitable to remake clothing if the material is not worth the time that it takes to do it. In remodeling, think, too, of the style trends of the time. The textile world of today is governed by style, and more money is spent on style in clothing than on material in clothing. Your clothing money will reach farther if you know something about the style trends of the time—what is being worn at the present time and what styles are coming in. Suiting the style to the individual is another very important thing, and in remaking we have to think of the style of the pattern in order to use the best of the material that we might have at hand. In remodeling, the height of success is to conceal the fact that the article is made over. For example, in making children's clothing from old overalls, use the wrong side of the material. Any child could then wear it and be happy; whereas, if the other side of the material were used, he would be affected by the fact that he is wearing made-over clothing. Try to make it fit, to make it look well, and to conceal the fact that it is made over. Fitting, construction, and style each has its place in remodeling.
Last summer I visited a 4-H Club where one of the girls brought an old coat to me which was very faded, and she wondered what she could do with it. In looking over the material, I decided it was worth making over, but it would have to be turned wrong side out. It was made into a dress, with as many panels in the skirt as there were panels in the coat, using the same pieces. Where the worn places were cut out and pieces put in, the stitching became part of the style and decoration. She was the winner in her 4-H Club and won a trip to the national club congress in Chicago, where she was placed first with this costume. It was not placed first because it was made over, but because it had style and was well made and at the same time was eco-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
nomical. The entire outfit of the girl, including hat, shoes and underclothing, cost $11.77. In these few minutes I have had here I hope that you have learned the following essentials in remodeling: that you consider carefully the material that you are going to make over, see that it is worth the time of making; that you suit the style to what you have to work with, to the season, and to the individual. Remember above all things that anything that is worth doing is worth doing well.
NEW TRENDS IN TEXTILES May Billings Clothing Instructor, Brigham Young University
THE consumer movement that is spreading over the country at the present time has a reason back of it. It grew out of a need—a need to know more about what we use and how to buy it, a need for information. The Relief Society, clubs, and all organized groups all over the United States are very much concerned that the consumer has more information on her goods and on the labels that the goods carry in order to buy wisely. During the depression materials were cheapened in order to meet the necessity for goods of lower cost, and laboratories began to produce new fibers, new ways of producing cloth. Formerly there were only four or five basic fibers; now we are confronted with an entirely new world, and we have new textiles to work with. I was told the other day that 82% of the textiles sold from the stores for family use are laboratory-constructed materials.
Rayon has been almost one hundred years in the building. It was not until after the war that rayon could be developed into a fiber which undersold everything else. The DuPont factory, which had been and still is making gunpowder, was turned over into the peace-time process of promoting and developing cellulose products from selected woody fiber, from flax, cotton and wool, from any plant that has a woody fiber, and out of this have come some wonderful developments in the textile industry. At first rayons were sharp, glossy, hard; they pulled at the seams, they melted when sent to the cleaners, or when pressed with a hot iron. But we are now beginning to get a pretty stabilized material. The term rayon stands for a whole world of new fibers, and although there are three especially different constructions, two are very different in their chemical construction, and
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
it is necessary to understand how to iron, wash, and handle them properly. Laws have been passed to protect us a little bit. In thirty states, the Board of Trade and the Bureau of Standards signed an agreement with the manufacturers that they would indicate whether material was acetate or viscous. We need to become fiber conscious, name conscious, process conscious. Any fashion book will help you if you read it. Manufacturers have tried to get the appearance of silk and wool in the rayon fabrics, to get resilience, a lovely glow, permeability to dye. They have learned that by cutting rayon and spinning it into a yarn they can make it look like wool. Spun rayon is a dull-finish fabric, spun from shorter lengths of rayon; it has wearing quality and 800 times more of it is sold than silk. It sells usually from 49¢ to 79¢ a yard, very often as low as 29¢, according to quality. There are two lining materials that are perspiration proof, wrinkle proof, spot proof, and pull proof at the seams. Laboratories are learning how to impregnate the yarn with new processes; they even sanitize so that germs and odors will not permeate the fiber and fabric. Sanforization is a process of shrinking that is absolute. If cloth is sanforized it will not shrink, and the label will be on the bolt; but ask to see it, for otherwise you may be told it is sanforized when it is merely labeled "pre-shrunk" and is still subject to some further shrinkage.
In 1937 there was passed some very definite action on the labeling of silk goods and woolens and cottons. The International Silk Guild has adopted "all pure silk," and "pure dye silk," as two labels guaranteeing that silk is the only fiber used in the manufacturing of the material so labeled, and that added weighting is limited to 10% in colored material, and 15% in black. When too much metal is used to weight silk, the material is deficient in real silk. Silk dresses that split or drop to pieces are too highly metalized. I think 10 to 15% weighting improves the silk material, sets the dye more permanently, and prevents some difficulties that are found in perfectly pure silk. A third label, "pure silk," means only that the material doesn't have rayon in it; it might have as high as 60% weighting in it. The rayon manufacturers are proud to put the label "rayon" on goods; they want you to know that this product is not a counterfeit for silk. The old idea of rayon being inferior is passing away, and we are better dressed for it.
REMNANTS
There is magic in cloth remnants For the clever woman who sews; Instead of folded odds and ends, She sees her children's clothes.
There is magic in food remnants For the thrifty woman who cooks; She makes her own fine recipes, Which cannot be found in books.
There is magic in time remnants Which come at close of day, When each enjoys the luxury Of her favorite work or play.
—Ella J. Coulam.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
Mormon Handicraft Department
MORMON HANDICRAFT AS AN OPPORTUNITY-MAKER Nellie O. Parker Member of General Board of Relief Society
MORMON HANDICRAFT was conceived in the desire to help others. The motivating objectives were: first, to create new avenues of employment by furnishing a market for fine handiwork; second, to encourage and foster the handicraft arts; and third, to utilize and to preserve the heritage of our people, the many skilled and talented artisans gathered from different lands. In states like Utah, with few large industries, employment must be created. It is recognized that the tourist trade is one of our greatest resources. Rather than importing articles to be sold and carried away again, our own people can make things that appeal to tourists. We should aim toward making distinctive articles of originality and fine workmanship, typical of our locality and our people. The records show that since the Shop opened its doors in the early summer of 1937, it has afforded opportunity for 2,500 people to sell their work, and $15,000 has been paid to them for it. The Shop is not yet self-supporting, which it must be if it is to be continued. The returns are very satisfactory during the tourist season, but more customers among our local people are needed to increase the volume of sales throughout the entire year. We solicit your help in this particular. Acquaint those in your community who buy lovely things with the variety of high-quality articles that can be procured at the Shop. Patronize it whenever possible. In the past, many stakes and wards have taken membership in the Shop, and we solicit their continued support of this worthy project. Try to make opportunities by encouraging and creating employment for your own stake people. Become aware of your own local resources and make use of them. One locality may have grass suitable for basket making; another, good clay for pottery, or petrified wood or native stones that polish beautifully. The field of developing these enterprises has scarcely been entered yet. The skilled craftsmen in your wards who do not need employment can teach those who do need the work. It would be a very commendable volunteer service.
We are endeavoring to keep the policies of the Shop very much as they have been. They are set forth in the following rules and regulations, as revised by the General Board, March 20, 1940:
1. The fee for membership in the Shop is $1.00 per year for an individual or for a stake or a ward Relief Society. However, individuals holding a current year's membership card in a ward Relief Society which has current membership in the Shop, may submit articles for sale through the Shop without further fee. Other individuals may enter articles for sale through
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
the Shop provided they hold current membership in the Shop. Ward Relief Societies are encouraged to become members of the Handicraft Shop for the benefit of their members who may desire to utilize the services of the Shop; stake Relief Societies will find membership desirable, particularly if the submittal and sale of articles is to be carried on as a stake board project. All membership fees are payable direct to the Mormon Handicraft Shop.
2. All articles for consignment to the Shop must first have been submitted to and approved by a stake committee (composed of stake and ward work-and-business leaders) as meeting established standards of workmanship and saleability. However, articles reordered by the Shop because of the demand for them may be sent direct to the Shop without submittal to the stake committee.
3. Before consignment to the Shop of articles approved by the stake committee, the stake committee must obtain permission from the Mormon Handicraft Shop to submit the proposed consignment in order to avoid overstocking some lines of merchandise.
4. All articles submitted for sale at the Shop must have price attached, to which 25% will be added by the Shop for overhead expense. The Shop, however, reserves the right at any time to equalize or reduce prices when necessary.
5. Articles will be carried in stock at the Shop for one year, or longer if considered saleable by the Shop, unless sold, or withdrawn earlier by consignor.
6. Articles submitted to the Shop for sale cannot be withdrawn by consignor until three months after date of entry.
7. In withdrawing articles, consignors must give the Shop three days notice and identify registry number of the articles to be withdrawn. Postage on articles which are returned to consignor by mail or express will be collected by the carrier upon delivery.
8. Any article received at the Shop which is not in good condition or which is not considered saleable by the Shop will be returned to consignor immediately.
9. Payments for articles sold are made on the 15th of the month following sale.
10. No person will be allowed to collect money for articles sold, or to withdraw articles from the Shop, without being identified as the consignor, or without verified written authorization from the consignor.
11. The Shop is not responsible for losses other than those covered by insurance against fire and theft.
HANDWORK WITH SALES APPEAL (A summary of comments which accompanied demonstration) Lucile Wallace Wolf Manager, Mormon Handicraft Shop
FIRST, I want to say that the Handicraft Shop will no longer handle foods for sale because of a law requiring physical and blood tests for all who prepare food for sale. There are three things that have been very much more saleable than all other entries at the Shop. One of the most saleable items has been hand-hammered, hand-etched copper. Utah has the greatest open-cut copper mine in the world, located in Bingham. These copper articles have sales appeal and local interest; they are reasonable in price and easy to carry. The second item that sells most readily is aprons. Some aprons have sales appeal and other aprons do not. Get the very best material you can and use good judgment in the color combinations. There is never a question of price with respect to exquisite aprons of organdy. We cannot supply the demand for a little zig-zag apron, which requires one hour to cut, ready for sewing. It is the material, style, and good color combinations that make it stunning. Other types of aprons which sell well are the exquisite white, blue, and pink pinafore, the peasant apron, and the dog-house apron, made for a man or boy in the family. The third largest seller is a pioneer doll. You will be interested to know that these pioneer dolls are not for sale anywhere else in the world, that doll collectors all over the United States are clamoring for them, and that up to March 21 we had handled 889 of them. These dolls are made by a woman who not only designs and makes the costumes, but the bodies as well. She makes several different types of dolls, including a western cowboy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
A mother and two sons thought of making little dogs of wool, and we have sold between 3,000 and 4,000 of them. The important things to remember when making and entering articles in the Shop are good material, good workmanship, right price, neatness, cleanliness, and good appearance. Things exquisitely done are always saleable if the material is good; do not do exquisite work on ordinary materials. Do not send soiled articles; if they have to be laundered, launder them, as we haven't the facilities for this. Articles which come in wrapped in cellophane are amply protected. Consult us often and come and see us whenever you are in Salt Lake, because it is your Shop.
WORK-AND-BUSINESS LEADER'S RESPONSIBILITY Mary Thomas Wasatch Stake Work Leader
THE women of Wasatch Stake have been very grateful for the Mormon Handicraft work of Relief Society. With the cooperation of the ward presidents and the work leaders we have been able to keep the standard of workmanship high. We have several women whose work is superior. Some of these women are widows, and there are others whose husbands are without work, and so we encourage them to enter their handwork regularly at the Mormon Handicraft Shop. We try to cooperate with the Shop in not overstocking on any items. All articles for entry are first taken to the ward leaders, who send on to the stake work leaders those articles which are found to be of good material and neat workmanship; in turn, the stake work leaders approve and send on to the Shop those articles which they find to be up to standard. Our women are learning not to bring in work unless it measures up to the requirements of material, cleanliness, practicability and originality; but we are careful not to give offense to those whose work is not acceptable. We feel that Mormon Handicraft has not only developed new avenues for employment for many who have special talents in different types of handwork and who need to supplement the family income, but that it has also helped us to retain some of the fine pioneer arts and crafts.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Music Department
SINGING MOTHERS NEAR AND FAR Beatrice F. Stevens Member of General Board of Relief Society
IT is impossible to evaluate the worth of the contribution being made by our Singing Mothers. Not only has our own organization been greatly benefited, but many worshiping assemblies of the Church have been enriched by their beautiful singing. Their influence has raised musical standards and brought increased culture and joy to all who have listened. Through these choruses, hundreds of women have opportunity for self-expression and many have been encouraged to develop unsuspected talent. Today, in practically every stake and in many wards may be found a group of women singing worth while music. Their generous giving of time and effort is deeply appreciated. A movement so valuable and popular will continue to grow. With the winning of recognition comes responsibility of advancement. Let us improve the musical knowledge and tone quality of our groups, enlarge our repertoire, being sure to include fine hymns. Choristers and organists, better your own technique. We hope you have found the articles written by Professor Wade N. Stephens and published this last year in our Magazine to be helpful. Why not refer to them frequently? Extensive preparation for centennial celebrations is anticipated. We plan, also, to invite combined stake choruses to furnish music for our general conferences and trust this will add incentive and enthusiasm to your work. As plans progress, you will be advised. We offer our new Relief Society Song Book, hoping you may find interesting material in it. We also urge the use of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, which was written especially for Singing Mothers by B. Cecil Gates; its choruses may be used in different ways, as duets, trios, etc.
(Note: For information on the Song Book, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1940, page 193; for a review of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, and directions for ordering, see the Magazine for February, 1940, page 113, and for March, 1940, page 194.)
MUSIC LEADERSHIP Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle Organist
MUSIC is one of the most powerful allies of the Church. Upon those who direct music in the Church, therefore, rests a considerable responsibility, the most important part of which is to offer music that is fitting to the occasion. Any service conducted on the Sabbath day requires sacred music; this should be observed invariably. There is ample time and opportunity during the week for secular music, so let us be happy in singing sacred music to praise God on His day. When individual musicians are invited to participate in Sunday services, the invitation should specifically indicate that something sacred is desired. If they have no sacred numbers to offer, they may always use something out of the hymn book. There are two important kinds of sacred music—congregational music and choir music. Choir music is prepared music. The members of choirs are more or less trained. They have a leader who directs them, as for a concert. Emphasis is put on all the minute technical details, such as the observation of holds, rests, climaxes, and retards. A choir strives for musical perfection. On the other hand, congregational singing is quite another matter; it is a mode of worship. Here we should not strive for musical perfection, because it is the text rather than the music that is important. The words are sermons in miniature. They present our doctrine in poetry. Their contemplation stirs the heart to faithfulness. The music is secondary; it is only an accompaniment to the words, and musical details may be disregarded. The dictatorial technic of choir-directing has no place in the directing of congregational singing. To a degree, the congregation should be its own director, so that it may be free to absorb the meaning of the words. Worshipers do not come to church to prepare for a concert; they are not trained singers; they may not be eager to sing in parts; they are not interested in musical details; they have come to worship. They should not be hur-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
ried or worried by the director but should be left free to express themselves in their own way. Tempos should always be comfortable. The director may assist the organist in setting the tempo when the introduction is played, but after the congregation starts to sing, never try to increase the speed. Really, a director should follow the congregation in the singing of a hymn. He leads out in directing a choir, but he follows in directing a congregation, for such singing is the "singing of the heart" and a prayer unto God. I believe that congregational singing is a more sacred exercise than concert or choir singing. Let us not spoil it by injecting the technic of concert or choir-directing.
The Church music committee is recommending that we have more congregational singing in our services, and that we use a greater variety of hymns. A sacrament service is quite perfect and complete with no music other than congregational hymns. In the hymn-singing project, which began in April, a different hymn is to be emphasized each month. In regard to congregational singing practice, if the hymn is known, merely encourage the congregation to give good attention to the words and to sing them with meaning; if the words are prayerful, sing prayerfully; if they are joyful, sing them with joy. Adjust the tempo accordingly. As a matter of fact, there is little need to practice well-known hymns. If the hymn is not known, frankly learn the tune line by line, but even here, keep the sense of the words uppermost. Sing with fervor, not too loud, not too fast, but always ardently.
Singing by women's choirs is pre-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
pared music. It is here that musical details should be carefully worked out by the director so that music will be given life and expression. It is here that part-singing should be studied, and attention paid to attacks, climaxes, rests, holds and all technical details. Clear enunciation should be stressed. In singing it must even be exaggerated in order to be effective, for listening to singing without being able to understand the words is generally quite uninteresting. Conversely, the message of the choir may touch the listener's heart. At rehearsals, choirs should practice singing softly and with good balance of parts. The voice quality of a choir improves with softer singing, and if the singers will listen to each other while singing, they will improve the balance of parts. With regard to pitch, it is largely a matter of careful attention. A director cannot mention it too often, for singing in tune is really the first requisite. An excellent aid to singing on pitch is to sing without accompaniment. An instrument serves as a crutch for the choir to lean on. Without it the singers are automatically put on their mettle. They think better, hear better and sing better. As much as half of every rehearsal could well be spent without accompaniment. Soft singing is another aid in the matter of pitch. It enables the singers to hear the other parts and to harmonize consciously with them. Let us take pride in setting fine standards of music and worship in the Church. May we have sacred music on the Sabbath, may we have impressive congregational singing, and may our choirs take joy in fine musical presentations. Then music will make its proper contribution in the program of the Church.
A Presidents Breakfast
AT the presidents' breakfast, where 175 stake and mission presidents, and former and present members of the General Board assembled at the Lion House, the discussion centered about the three following questions:
1. Shall the General Board continue to outline topics for discussion for the work-and-business meeting (such as the current lessons in nutrition); if so, shall the use of these topics be optional or required?
2. How can we encourage visiting teachers to discuss the planned messages in the homes?
3. How can we encourage Relief Society members to read the lessons which appear in the Relief Society Magazine?
Three stake presidents spoke to the first question: Annie M. Farr of Smithfield Stake, Hannah M. Clyde of Kolob, and Ella P. Bennion of Oquirrh. They were unanimous in their opinion that the General Board should continue to outline topics for discussion at the work meeting, but indicated that the preference of most of the ward workers and other stake presidents whom they had consulted was that these outlines should continue to be optional rather than required. A plea was made for undivided attention while the discussion leader is making formal presentation of the topic, to be followed by conversation on the subject as the handwork proceeds. The importance of the work meeting was stressed, not only because of the sewing for the needy and the development of individual skills, but also because of the opportunity for informal visiting and sociability afforded at this particular meeting.
Question 2 was discussed by Radie O. Hyde and Ella M. Williams, presidents of Ensign and South Davis stakes, respectively. Mrs. Hyde stressed first the fundamental principle of visiting teachers realizing the dignity and importance of their calling, and second, the value of a capable leader for these visitors—one who is on a par with class leaders in other departments of Relief Society. Two activities which have improved the services of the visiting teachers in Ensign Stake were described: (1) The stake leader prepares and distributes to ward leaders each month a card bearing a scriptural quotation emphasizing the central theme of the teachers' message, and a question dealing with the practical application. For example, for the month when Giving was the topic, the quotation on the card was from II Cor. 9:7, and the question, "What may we do to contribute to the Church welfare program?" The lesson was supplemented by a visit of the stake and ward leaders to the regional bishops' storehouse and to the plant of the Deseret Industries. (2) Ward class leaders present their most difficult problems at union meeting; at a subsequent union meeting the situation involved and the suggested solution is dramatized.
Mrs. Bennion emphasized the importance of selecting as visiting teachers those women who are suited for this type of service, and carefully explaining to them their duties and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
responsibilities. Realizing that a sufficient number of women qualified for this service is not always available, she said, "Relief Society is not solely for the highly educated and cultured, and those who have the ability to do things just as they ought to be done, but it is for all women, to help them in their development, and we have to use patience, kindness, and tolerance, and help them along the way." The following means of improving the teaching and assuring the discussion of the message in the homes were recommended:
1. Select teachers, insofar as possible, with more thought, through a personal interview by the president with each prospective teacher to ascertain ability, qualifications, and interest in Relief Society work, and to explain the Relief Society Magazine and attendance at Sacrament meetings.
2. Require teachers, each month before making their visits, to read all the lessons in the Magazine, and to study the families to be visited with the idea of referring to the lesson of most interest to each of them.
3. Appeal to the pride of the visiting teachers to do their work well, so that they may feel the stimulation and recompense of success.
4. Presidents should manifest more interest in the visits after they have been made.
5. Consistent follow-up of these suggestions by the president.
Charlotte Kay, president of Weber Stake Relief Society, spoke to the third question. Realizing that interest in and appreciation for the courses of study underlie the reading of the lessons by the members, she made several practical suggestions which are here summarized:
At the beginning of the season, the course of study should be presented with fluency and enthusiasm, and with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE emphasis on the opportunities which it provides for the members. 2. During the work meeting the Magazine agent can give with value what is called a "commercial" on the radio, highlighting the current Magazine, and mentioning the forthcoming lessons. 3. Visiting teachers can refer to lessons for the coming month, often by asking a tactful question in the home, such as, "What do you think about this or that in the lesson?" Such an approach will appeal to a woman's pride and curiosity to such extent that she will read the lesson. 4. Credit on the roll for individuals reporting that the day's lesson has been read is another help which tends to stimulate lesson-reading by those who are not inclined to participate in the discussion. 5. Presentation of lesson material on special occasions in unusual or entertaining form, such asa skit or play or beautifully prepared talks, creates incentive not only  to read the lessons, but to study them. 6. The class leader is perhaps the most important factor in encouraging mem bers to read the lessons. Therefore, the class leader should have sincere ap preciation for the lesson material, the ability to inspire enthusiasm in others, and a positive character; she must, of course, do a certain amount of lecturing to give new information and_background, but a good leader will leave time for as much discussion as she can possibly draw from her class, remembering that there is little "impression without expression." Summaries of the talks by Ann P. Nibley, Relief Society president of Northwestern States Mission, and Lottie Fullmer, president of Pioneer Stake Relief Society, also given at the breakfast, appear with the proceedings of membership and social welfare departments, respectively. ) General Session—Forenoon MISSIONARY TRAINING IN THE HOME Ida D. Rees Former Relief Society President of East German Mission MORMONISM is a way of life— a way that provides valuable preparation for those sent out into the world as missionaries by the Church. Let us review the course of this way of life in a Mormon home. There is always rejoicing at the advent of a child; he grows up with the feeling that he is precious in the sight of the Lord. The first big event in his young life is his formal presentation before the ward when he is given a name and a blessing. As soon as the little fellow can lisp, he is taught a simple prayer. His baptism at eight years is another impressive occasion, when he realizes what it means to be permitted to enter into the Church of God. At twelve he is ordained a deacon, not in an indifferent and routine way, but as an event of consequence: he now bears the Priesthood of God. Then comes the occasion of his first public prayer, his first Church talk or passing of the Sacrament. If the youngster comes home from Sunday School exclaiming, "Mother, I'm to pass the Sacrament tonight," and the mother merely says, "Are you?" and turns back to her book, that reception can easily mean that Church duties to this eager lad will 326 henceforth be a closed book. On the other hand, when the mother exhibits enthusiastic interest, when she hurries to tell the rest of the family of the honor, when she sees to it that the boy is properly groomed—a new tie perhaps or a flower in his lapel—then what an unforgettable occasion it has become to him! This is the boy who is later to deliver a message to the world, the boy who must be equipped with a knowledge and understanding of the glories and beauties of the Gospel plan. We as parents do not realize the amazing lack of information displayed by too many of our missionaries concerning the nature and meaning of the very message and the warning they are to deliver. 'True, we have auxiliary organizations in the Church that are playing an important part in offering that education, but it is the influence of the home that must be made to play the major role. Organizations may supplement, but they cannot supplant the Mormon home. Ours is the responsibility during those precious formative years to clothe our sons and daughters in the robes of knowledge, light and understanding. In the stress of daily affairs we too often thoughtlessly evade or delay that obligation, with the result that the missionary, after arrival in his field of labor, is compelled to spend many precious weeks to provide himself with the necessary background, to inform himself so as to be able to present the Gospel intelligently, fervently, convincingly. In connection with this home training, he should be taught throughout his youth the value of his time. Missionaries are equal in one respect: each one has 24 hours in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 his day. Fortunate is the one who has learned to budget his time at home, who in a practical way has caught the inspiration of a full day, well utilized. It is easily discernible which boy has developed resourcefulness at home, who has learned to be a leader and not a leaner, the one who is a self-starter. Self-help stands out everywhere in the doctrines of the Church and in the pursuit of salvation. The home is the training ground for the development of that wholesome point of view. In the mission field the procrastinator, the sluggard, the omnivorous reader, the ease-seeker, the late sleeper, is a disappointment to his parents, an aggravation to himself, a headache to the president, and a stumbling block to the Saints. But the prepared missionary at the very outset plunges into his work with zeal and understanding—an inspiration to his companions, a joy to the Saints, a stimulation to investigators, a pride to the Church. The average missionary while at home, has first-hand information on the working of the Sunday School, Primary and Mutual. But what does he know about our Relief Society? Little, indeed! And yet he will discover in the mission that the Relief Society is the backbone of the branch in which he labors. Then why not give our boys an opportunity occasionally while at home to attend our regular Relief Society sessions so that they may get a picture firsthand of the dignity and dispatch with which our meetings are conducted, an idea of the scope of our educational program and the many ramifications of our social service work? Think what that would mean RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to them when they are called upon to promote the growth and development of the work assigned them in their missionary labors! We are sending our young men and women out to battle with ignorance, indifference, intolerance— three deadly enemies. Surely, the 327 home, the Mormon home, will accept the responsibility to see to it that these boys are provided with the trumpet of warning, the sharp sword of testimony, the breastplate of faith, and the helmet of knowledge, as they go out as crusaders in the service of the Lord! MISSIONARIES—CHARACTERISTICS IN MISSION Claire T. Murdock Former Relief Society President of Netherlands Mission ONE of the greatest sources of joy in our mission work was association with our missionaries—youtr sons and daughters. As one large mission family, we learned to know and understand each other and feel each other's joys and sorrows. To watch the growth and development of these young men and women, to feel their humble and sincere spirits, and to hear their fervent testimonies of the divinity of the work was indeed an inspiration. Every missionary has problems to confront at the beginning of his work in the mission field. He has to leave the life he has known at home, forget self almost entirely, and devote himself to the work of the Lord. At the close of their missions, our missionaries wrote what they called their "last will and testament," setting forth the adjustments they had had to make, the problems they had met, and their suggestions to new missionaries coming into the field. I quote excerpts from the "Jast will and testament" of one of our missionaries, Elder Frank Jex, hoping that it may prove helpful to you who have missionaries in the field: "As a boy I cherished the thought that a mission necessarily meant unreserved and complete devotion to the Lord in His work during the entire period concerned, and that this situation was quite miraculously brought about by the elder's entrance into the mission field regardless of his personal effort." During the first few months of his mission, this boy was very unhappy, always looking toward the future hoping that a change would come about. He felt if he had a different companion, if he could be changed to another branch, he would get that fine missionary spirit he was expecting. He was given a new companion, he was transferred to another branch, but he still felt that downcast spirit. He finally realized that his own attitude was wrong, that he himself must try to work hard to gain a testimony and the spirit he was looking for. With this changed viewpoint, he said, "I would list first and foremost as items of importance an increased definiteness of purpose in my work, a definite study plan and an increased effort to conform to the same." How easy it is to let the day slip by without accomplishing anything. For 328 instance, they might get up in the morning and feel that today they must write a letter, or go down and have their shoes repaired, and so forth, but soon the day is gone and nothing is accomplished. If a missionary will make every effort to conform to a regular schedule, it will help him to fulfill his purpose and keep happy. "I would seek more frequently and earnestly for help and guidance, and attempt to be more earnest and humble that the avenue of inspiration might be more accessible." We all realize the power of a sincere and humble prayer, and we know that no missionary can be successful without the help of the Lord, and this necessitates frequent and fervent prayer. "I would strive to be much less
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
frivolous, trying to keep in mind the holiness of my calling. I would hope to spend less effort being a good fellow, and more effort being a true minister of the Gospel. I would be dignified, reserved, and careful enough so that I could act as a spiritual advisor to the branch members." I cannot stress this point of dignity too much. So many heartaches and troubles could be spared if every missionary would keep foremost in his mind the sacredness of his calling, and at all times remain dignified in his work. Proper attitude, definiteness of purpose in work, continued study, a regular schedule, and dignity in work, are some of the important items toward making a successful missionary.
PROBLEMS A MISSIONARY HAS TO FACE IN A WARRING NATION Martha S. Toronto Former Relief Society President of Czechoslovak Mission
BRIEFLY, I am going to tell you a few of the problems that confront a missionary in a nation that is constantly under the shadow of war. In my mission we were closer to it perhaps than any of the other missions in Europe. I know that in the audience today there are many women who have had sons in Europe during these last troublesome times, and I want to tell you that I admire you for having such fine sons. The development and the progress they have made is astounding, as I am sure you can see with your own eyes when they come home. During our entire stay of three and a half years in Czechoslovakia we were confronted with war. When we first went, Italy was at war in Abyssinia; then war struck Spain, then China, then Austria, then our own little country of Czechoslovakia. It was a hard thing to battle against, because we had no weapons. In the small space of one and a half years our little country mobilized four times, and we were forced to flee twice. The first time we found refuge in the towering peaks of the Alps in peaceful Switzerland, although at that time it did not seem so peaceful. We stayed away from Czechoslovakia for some months,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and after the temporary Munich Pact we went back again and tried to pick up the loose ends of the work we had tried to build up, and I cannot tell you how loose those ends were. People who are terrified, who are constantly waiting for something to happen to them and their country, are not in much of a mood for religion. The missionaries when tracting would have doors opened to them wide if they would talk politics, which, of course, was very unwise, and it was not done, but their Gospel message fell on deaf ears. After looking at a republic like ours is here, and then at a dictatorship, I can tell you the difference is as marked as day is from night. We were not able to hold public meetings of any sort; the missionaries could tract but very little. Then, of course, we had to leave finally, and that leaving was hard—I think harder for the missionaries than any part of their mission experience—but it had to be done. It is interesting to observe that most of the missionaries, if not all of them, had been promised in their patriarchal blessings that they would go in peace and come home in safety. They did go in peace, but peace was not reigning when they left Europe, but they came safely home—almost seven hundred of them. The missionaries and myself and my family have been faced with danger and almost death more than once. We are thankful that we have been led by the hand of God out of danger and into safety.
THE VALUE OF THE WOMAN MISSIONARY; THE MISSION MOTHER Zina C. Brown Former Relief Society President of British Mission
THE woman missionary is the "bearer of the word" just as the elder is. She tracts from door to door, gaining admission at times where the elder has been unable to enter. She goes on Sunday circuit to fill her speaking engagements the same as her brother missionary. She assists in the holding of street and cottage meetings, bearing a testimony so humble and sincere in its fervency, that every heart is touched. Her value is great and her influence far-reaching. Most of these girls are seasoned in the work of one or more of our auxiliary organizations, and it is here that their light surely shines. Go into any branch of the mission after a pair of women missionaries has labored there a few months, or even weeks, the organizations have taken on new life, the zest for the work has increased. Girls' choruses spring up under their leadership; Primary organizations come into being where there were none; membership in the organizations has increased; in the Relief Society, the lessons take on more color and new meaning as these enthusiastic young women respond as class leaders. The auxiliaries are real proselyting agencies. In one organization in Ireland fourteen girls were converted in one season, most of them being baptized at the same service; their place of conversion—the M. I. A. These girls work shoulder to shoulder with the elders in sharing responsibility. It puts the elder on his mettle when he knows he is to speak on the same program with his sister missionary. Naturally this plan is equally stimulating to the sister. Even in daily class, this friendly rivalry adds a new impetus to preparation. These young women are the representatives of the mission mother, for each of them is a member of one or more of the mission boards. Through these mission daughters the mission mother is enabled to keep in closer touch with the auxiliary work being done in the field. The wife of the mission president is set apart as the president of the Relief Society of her mission, and as adviser to the other women's auxiliaries. In addition to this, she is her husband's missionary companion, traveling with him over the entire mission as he holds the various district conferences. She also at-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
tends with him the elders' meetings and conferences. As head of the Relief Society of the mission, she finds herself facing a stupendous responsibility. She is looked up to as an example to all the people of the mission. She is setting standards for their home life, and is looked to for help in solving problems, and in giving spiritual uplift. Not in our own strength alone do we meet these situations. The dearest associations of the mission field were our contacts with your sons and daughters—our missionaries. We love these noble young men as our own sons and these young women as our own daughters. We were privileged to share their joys and sorrows. Bereavement came to quite a number of the missionaries, even the passing of mothers and fathers. The perfect faith of these young people in the face of such loss made us humble indeed and even more grateful for the strength found in obedience to the Gospel teachings. The spiritual and mental growth of the missionaries was the source of our greatest joy. God blessed their efforts and through them many came to a knowledge of the Gospel.
ADJUSTMENT AFTER THE MISSION Norma S. Evans Former Relief Society President of French Mission
IN the mission field there is always a good deal of banter among the boys about "sitting on their trunks," but as a matter of fact, I have yet to see the first missionary about to be released who did not express himself as regretting that his time was so near. A good part of that reluctance to return home is because he feels that his usefulness is at its very peak. He has learned the language, if his mission is a foreign one, and is beginning to see the fruits of all his earlier struggles. He has learn-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
ed to love the humble and devout members and friends who have accepted him almost as a son, and he is not sure that he will ever be able to see them again. Small wonder, then, if all at once, he is swept with regret at having to leave all this behind. But there is still another reason for him to dread the return home, aside, even, from the inevitable home-coming speech which has been hanging over him for some time before his release. I mean the adjustment which he will be called upon to make when he again tries to become a part of his own community. We may say that a mission is the grandest experience that can enter the life of a young man or woman, and yet, many times, that very experience has served to throw him out of adjustment with the people and conditions which face him on his return. He has been devoting every waking hour, supposedly, for two or more years, toward building up ideals and standards, toward teaching them and trying earnestly to live up to them himself. He comes home only to find that if he talks and acts in strict conformity with those same principles he will be set apart from and even shunned by many of his former companions who think they have found that the quickest avenue to popularity is to be a "good sport," and who have gone to surprising lengths to appear tolerant and liberal. This is the time in a boy's life when to be thought pious or straight-laced is a greater stigma than to be found drunk or stealing. Somehow it is not comfortable to feel out of harmony with his former chums who cannot possibly see eye to eye with his noble intentions, and the struggle begins within him to decide just how far he needs to bend over backwards in this effort toward uplifting, at the expense of being a "wet blanket" among his former companions. If, then, he decides that the only hope for adjustment lies in being "like the rest," he makes an effort to prove that his mission did not take away any of his independence or manhood, and he may even take an occasional smoke or drink, in which case he merits the volley of disapproval from his elders. If, instead of just criticism and rebuke, we would only reach out a little and help these boys! It is the time when they will work most enthusiastically and earnestly in some ward capacity or Scout position. Don't we have an obligation to try to give them something worth while and stimulating to offset the void of finding most of their former associates married or away at school? We should impress upon them the significance of the slogan "once a missionary, always a missionary." The transition into ordinary life again would not be impeded by their keeping in touch by letter or card with those devoted members in the mission whose hearts would be gladdened to know they are not forgotten. It takes so little time and money to send an occasional greeting, and it is a definite reflection on many of our boys that they forget these small attentions. There are other problems which face the home-comer. Take, for example, the doubtful tragedy of the fellow whose girl did not wait for him, or even the doubtful blessing of the fellow whose girl did wait. His years in the mission field have de-
veloped him in so many ways that the girl cannot possibly have kept pace with. She may have worked hard against this very contingency. If she is smart, she will have made as much progress as he has, but it could not have been along the same lines, and try as she might, there will be many differences to iron out before complete harmony can be restored between them. Parents who have made extreme sacrifice in keeping their son on a mission believe their obligation is discharged and that the boy should find work immediately so as to help lift their burden. This attitude is only natural, but they should realize that no boy who is ashamed of his appearance stands much chance of impressing any employer. They should, if at all possible, make that one extra effort to fit their son out in clothes that give him a feeling of self-respect, so necessary to the success of any undertaking. In some few cases the boy's old job is waiting for him, and many of his biggest problems are solved, but this is the exception and not the rule. Some employers even feel that a boy is lazy and spoiled after two or more years of receiving a regular allowance and accepting food and shelter from friends and members away from home, in return for preaching the Gospel—which the employers feel is a small effort. Then, too, in spite of how fine a missionary a boy has made, the employer may logically prefer to favor someone with actual college education, the kind of education the missionary may have sacrificed for his mission. For the young man who does not have to find work, but can enter college, there are equal handicaps.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
His former classmates are now two years ahead or have graduated. This means forming new contacts among younger groups, and even though his intense religious study and continual meeting of new people have better fitted him to assimilate his studies, he is still conscious of being behind in actual college training. He is an older boy thrown with younger activities. The kind of thing he used to think was fun now seems to him dull and juvenile, and even in cases where his family can well afford to continue his college education, his own interest has lagged to the extent that he is tempted to give the whole thing up. Time, of course, is the great healer and adjuster of all things, but to the impetuous youth that is small comfort, and many a boy is made to suffer needlessly through our lack of understanding and cooperation. This may not be a community project, but we might, as individuals, feel a greater responsibility toward these young men and women upon their arrival home. All the stress need not be placed on their great duty to repay their debt to their parents. We parents have had some of the rewards of our sacrifices in the splendid records made by these young people, and have shared in the reflected glory of their achievements. We have had the satisfaction of knowing that our children were engaged in doing the work of the Lord, and would be blessed and protected in proportion to their investment of time and effort in that unselfish labor. We have realized big dividends in their frequent letters home, and in the assurance that their individual testimonies were being strengthened
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
with every hour of work and study. So, if it appears to us that a boy is swaying too far in one direction, either in pressing his religious beliefs, or, on the other hand, too noticeably straying from them, let us remember that he is experiencing a difficult transition and that he is just as eager to be well adjusted and well thought of as we are to have him so, and that, given understanding and half a chance, he will work out his own reconstruction problems. His mission will influence his entire future, and will remain for him always the most priceless and beautiful experience of his life.
RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN EUROPE TODAY Evelyn N. Wood Former Relief Society President of West German Mission
THERE is a German hymn that says: "Work for the night is coming, Start when the day is young, Work until the night comes, When man can work no more." Now the time for work is over; but after that darkness of night, may there be a dawn that is bright and shining, and a chance to do another day's work over there. And now it is evening. For the first time in 102 years since the Gospel was first taken to Europe, all the missionaries have gone. We have left behind 30,000 Saints, of which number 15,000 speak German. We took trains, and with a little red passbook were allowed to ride securely out of trouble, hardship and disaster, and left our friends behind. In Germany, most of our men have been taken into the army, even one dear brother, with thick, thick glasses. He didn't want to fight. The tears came to his eyes as he said how he hated guns and war. We left the work for 1940 all printed and in the hands of the Saints. Every district and branch Relief Society was organized with instructions for emergency. The district superintendent from Nuremberg said that most of the meetings were under the direction of the Relief Society, and were well attended. Our sisters of the Relief Society can step in and hold the branches together, as they did earlier in the World War. We had the privilege to go to Austria and visit the members there in a small town where there are only Mormons and Catholics. Our branch president was injured in a well cave-in, and his back was badly wrenched. He was in terrific pain for five weeks, and could not move. When he saw us, he asked to be administered to. He said he was coming to church on a stretcher, and after church was going to walk out. I suggested that it might not be wise, as he might hurt himself more. I shall never forget the look in those soft, brown eyes as he said, "I am sorry that you feel that way, but it can be done without your faith." He taught me a lesson. During the meeting his face was radiant, and after the meeting he carefully arose and walked out across the street, and his broken back was instantly healed. I bear you my testimony that the Lord will not forsake people like that no matter which country they live in. I do not know how they will manage everything, but I have no doubt that with their faith they will be guided and blessed. We had many wonderful experiences in Germany that convinced us that the Lord is vitally interested in the missionary work. I was promised in my blessing that I should have
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
the special gift of understanding the German language. Shortly after our arrival in Germany, I was sitting in a district union meeting in Hamburg when I realized that I was understanding what was being said. A month later at a meeting of the Relief Society in Ruhr District, I realized that I was understanding every word that was being said, and for two and one-half hours we were able to speak back and forth in German. It was truly a gift from the Lord.
THE PART MUSIC PLAYS IN THE MISSION Virginia B. Larson Former Relief Society President of Swedish Mission
MY report today is intended to cover missionary chorus work as a factor in the spreading of the Gospel. The meager results being attained by the customary missionary methods challenged us to find more productive ways and means of reaching the hearts of the Swedish people. The most promising way seemed to be through activity. Having read of the success of choruses in England and other missions, we determined to give that method a try. We built our chorus around a quartet which became unexpectedly popular in Stockholm by its appearance in television. Most of them had never sung in a chorus before, but they had the true missionary spirit and trained faithfully every day until they learned the art of singing together. Before they were finally disbanded, they had learned from memory over fifty songs. The chorus was a particularly fortunate method of missionary work, because the Swedish people liked Americans and their music; whether the American Harmony Singers, as they were known, sang folk songs or negro spirituals, or cowboy ballads, they were equally well received. They added to their American repertoire a number of Swedish favorites, including folk songs and religious numbers. Thus equipped, they were ready for action. Their first appearances were in hospitals, schools, old-folks' homes and churches. Later, they responded to invitations from such organizations as the Scouts, various students' clubs, business men's clubs, and to more formal groups such as the Swedish American Society and the Wasa Order. The appearance of the quartet in television and later in Stockholm's Concert Hall paved the way for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
their first radio broadcast—and it was the chorus' unusual privilege to appear regularly thereafter over a nationwide hook-up once a month, with their own half-hour program. Before the war cut their activity short, they were becoming a well-known institution in Sweden; as an example, they were invited by the Swedish-American Club to sing at the reception given for Pearl Buck, who came to Stockholm to receive the Nobel Prize. Then later, they were asked to furnish the music for two international meets where people from every country were present, and they had to be introduced in several languages. The chorus played an important part in our last conference tour. They presented formal programs in the concert halls of Sweden's four largest cities and less formal concerts in connection with every conference which was held. This form of Mormon publicity proved so favorable that attendance at these meetings increased many fold over anything that we had experienced before. The effect of the concert program was also seen upon the missionaries themselves, for there is value in the constant challenge to do one's best. It was a thrill to see how the elders worked together in this project which they could see was achieving results in an ever-widening circle of friends and acquaintances who were becoming interested in them and their message. They were self-disciplined and self-starters. They did not forget in whose service they were engaged. Never did they make a public appearance without having first met privately in prayer. They were helped also by every other el-
der in the field, who made it his responsibility to advertise and to encourage the chorus members. The Swedish Saints, who were at first a bit dubious about the activity method, caught the enthusiasm and soon were giving approval and cooperation. It was not long before they began to be chorus-minded and were organizing themselves into effective singing units in various parts of the mission. The chorus in Gothenburg gave a splendid concert in connection with a missionary quartet which was working there, and other groups were working to give recitals with the chorus when it came to their branches. There is now, in Stockholm, a chorus of young voices about forty in all, who are doing fine work in keeping up the spirits of the Saints and friends. Over a third of these are a direct result of the missionary activity method, having been baptized into the Church during the last summer. Relief Societies furnished singing groups for one session of each of our last district conferences, using, besides Swedish songs, some Relief Society numbers which they had translated. One Hundred Thousand Strong was a favorite. When we left, they were talking of getting white blouses so that they would look like Singing Mothers in other parts of the world. Newspapers responded favorably to the American Harmony Singers. Critics commented on their discipline and their singing together, their naturalness and good humor and how they had caught the fancy of the Swedish people. Some noticed their general attitude, saying that if all young people in Salt Lake City were as happy and at peace with the world as these young men seemed to be, then in that place the problem of living must be small indeed. Thus the chorus became a very important factor in the missionary activity of the Swedish Mission. It won hundreds of new friends for the Church each month over the radio, and it broke down prejudice and opened the doors to the missionaries in every city where they were located. Where we had been content to preach to a few score in our own little chapels, with the chorus we had to hire large halls to accommodate the hundreds who came. They won more favorable publicity through the press for the Church
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
than we had even dared to hope for. Everywhere these Mormon boys were referred to in cordial and favorable terms, and music proved to be a most powerful agent in winning the hearts of the Swedish people. It was my privilege to lead this chorus, and I am indeed grateful for it. Some of the members are now released, and others are working in widely separated places in America, and some, I am happy to say, are still singing. Only the other day we received a report from two of them who are together forming a part of the Eastern States Mission Quartet.
LAST-MINUTE OBSERVATIONS AND EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE Fawn B. McKay Former Relief Society President of East German Mission
FOR the past two and a half years it has been an interesting privilege to work in the midst of some of the oldest and most cultured nations of the world, which now are forced into conflicts resulting in complete annihilation of nationalities. The outlook is for a long-drawn-out war. From the beginning, tension and anxiety have predominated. As time went on, despair turned into hope and hope into despair, until finally the tension and anxiety became a reality, and war was declared September 3, 1939. Evacuations have been among the most tragic of situations. Some cities have been compelled to double their populations and become "their brothers' keepers." This condition has been somewhat alleviated, but evacuation from strategic points still predominates. These warring nations, through the media that allow extensive and effective propagation of propaganda, continually build their peoples up to the need of the hour. This audience of women today causes me to reflect upon an unseen, unheard, and unassembled body of women in Europe today, which is engaged in the cause of service. All must do their duty as faithfully as the men at the front. These women are to be found working diligently in the home, the field, the shop, the railroads, the factories, and in the hospital service; if the necessity arises, they will take the places now occupied by men. I speak mainly from observation in Switzerland,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
wherein exists, I believe, greater efficiency than in other nations, yet is exemplary of women's service in other nations. Today in Switzerland, two thousand women are actively engaged in service, and there is a registration of 160,000 who are ready for an immediate call for action. The women's service divisions consist of: the Girl Scouts, whose duty it is to do the little "good turns"; the Good Samaritans, who train and act in the hospitals; the Air Raid Division, which assists in the homes in case of bombings and gas attacks with resulting fires; the Field Division, which drives ambulances and takes care of the wounded from the battlefield. The Swiss claim proudly the founding of the Red Cross. This occurred in Geneva, Switzerland, August 22, 1864, when the representatives of twelve nations signed the Red Cross treaty setting forth the humanitarian principles of the organization. A nation so small as Switzerland requires an efficient and a large army which costs about a million dollars a day to operate. Per capita, Switzerland has the largest army in the world. All men to the age of forty-five must serve. After military training, each man is allowed to retain his military equipment in his home; thus originates the saying, "Every Swiss home an armory." All that can be done to maintain the morale of the people is emphasized. Extras are not allowed to be printed, and severe and tragic news reels are curtailed. Freedom is the aim of the Swiss people, and they will fight to the finish, bearing forever in mind such slogans as, "We flee not, we die," "Our souls to God, our bodies to our enemies," and "One for all, all for one." They tremble at this war so close to their doors, and despairingly, yet hopefully, go on. One of our members, who formerly worked in a watch factory which was turned into a munitions plant shortly after war was declared, said: "I quit my job last night; I cannot pray at night for peace and work the following day on munitions." One cannot help but regard the consistency of her decision. The Relief Societies still function very well, and assist in whatever way they possibly can toward all conditions which present themselves. From the towering Alps to the calm waters of the Mediterranean, across the turbulent waters of the Atlantic, to the welcome of the Goddess of Liberty we came. After crossing the vast plains, enjoying the mystic beauties of the Carlsbad Caverns, looking into the depths of the Grand Canyon and up to the ethereal blue from the vast and colorful cliffs of Zion Canyon, crossing the deserts into the Rockies, I reflected and thought, "God has indeed made a beautiful world for us, even if the atrocities of mankind occasionally arise."
"RELIGIOUS faith has produced the finest architecture, the world's art masterpieces, the finest music, the greatest literature in the world—and also the greatest characters." —Selected.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
MESSAGE TO THE SAINTS IN EUROPE Gertrude R. Garff Former Relief Society President of Danish Mission
MY words today are to be an expression of greeting, love and encouragement to our European Relief Society sisters from the General Board and Relief Society as a whole. Today we feel very close to our sisters abroad because of the many fine things we have heard about them from these splendid women who have spoken to you this morning. These few minutes we dedicate to our Relief Society sisters in Europe. It is a wonderful privilege to be here in this gathering in Zion—in America. Let us turn our thoughts and hearts to those sisters not so privileged but whose thoughts are nevertheless constantly with us. We love these women and honor them because they are faithful and devoted to the cause of truth and Relief Society. Those of us who live in the shadow of the Temple spires cannot possibly appreciate what it meant to those Saints in Europe to have the missionaries leave them—their last tangible tie with Church headquarters. I hope never to live through another day so sad as the day we received word at Copenhagen that all missionaries were to leave Europe for the United States, even though I knew in my heart it was the right thing to do. Think of the sense of loss felt by the Saints when they knew they were to be left to themselves. We have not deserted our European sisters; though we cannot be with them in person, we are with them constantly in spirit, loving them and praying for them. We are making every effort to help them with their Relief Society work. What may seem to them a great tragedy may prove to be a great blessing, for the Lord has said in latter-day revelation: "Blessed is he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven. For after much tribulation come the blessings." These people are indeed going through a time of tribulation. The loss of missionaries isn't their only trouble; many are not getting enough to eat and others in countries like Denmark have gone cold all winter, and meetings have had to be discontinued in the churches to save the precious fuel. But the Lord has promised blessings to the faithful—blessings of strengthened testimonies, love and understanding for our fellowmen. The Lord has said, "If you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God." When the early pioneers wondered why they should be so sorely tried, the Lord gave them this message, "My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion, and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." Every Latter-day Saint wants to be worthy of the Lord's kingdom, but how are we to prove our worthiness if we are not tried? The Apostle Peter tells us in one of his Epistles
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
that the trial of faith is precious. He had been writing of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and he continued: "Wherein ye greatly rejoice though now for a season if need be ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations—that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold which perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ." When we consider the rewards awarded to the faithful, we might well realize that a trial of our faith is precious if it gives us a chance to prove that ours is the "faith that will endure to the end." Even though it seems that the Lord, too, has forgotten us, he is ready to help us. The Scriptures are full of promises to the effect that the Lord will help us if we need him. We read in the Bible, "The Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him;" and from the Book of Mormon, "Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your afflictions." The Doctrine and Covenants gives this comforting promise, "He that seeketh me early shall find me and shall not be forsaken." These are wonderful promises based on one condition—that we call upon the Lord. May we, the Relief Society General Board and members assembled here today, call upon the Lord to bless these Saints in Europe with courage, endurance and faith that they, too, may exclaim as did the Saints of the primitive church, "We are troubled on every side but not distressed, we are perplexed but not in despair; persecuted but not forsaken; cast down but not destroyed."
General Session—Afternoon
GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT Counselor Marcia K. Howells
"GRACE be unto you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." Thus the Apostle Paul greeted the Corinthians long ago. He told them of the gifts of the spirit, of wisdom, discernment, knowledge, faith and many others. Down through the ages good women have been given such gifts. History is replete with interesting examples. In reading the Life of Joseph F. Smith,* I realized that his mother, Mary Fielding Smith, was richly endowed with spiritual gifts. She had faith and fortitude which carried her in the face of almost insurmountable difficulties. When she became the wife of Patriarch Hyrum Smith, she assumed the grave responsibility of mothering Hyrum's five little motherless children. In addition to the children, there were several helpless and infirm people, whom the patriarch charitably maintained; these also she loved and cared for. She was faithful and true to this
*Life of Joseph F. Smith, by Joseph Fielding Smith.
trust all the days of her life. Her first child, Joseph F., was born in Far West, Missouri, only a few days after his father had been put in prison for the Gospel's sake. Then, for several months, the young mother was sick with chills and fever. During that time her home was entered and robbed. Later, she was driven from this home and compelled to move 200 miles, still unable to leave her bed of sickness. Instead of complaining, joy filled her soul that she was counted worthy to suffer privations for the cause of truth. When she heard of the death of her husband and Joseph, the prophet, the dreadful blow was enough to crush one of less faith and courage. Yet, with a prayer in her heart, she assumed the responsibility of providing for the family of eleven. At one time, Mary Fielding Smith and son Joseph F., drove two ox teams down the Missouri for many miles, to obtain provisions. It rained a great deal, so the trip was very hard. After obtaining flour, meal and corn, they started back home. When night came, they camped on an open prairie. Near by were men camped for the night, who were on their way to market with beef cattle. Next morning Mary Fielding Smith's best yoke of oxen was missing. The search began—through tall wet grass they walked and searched. At last, they were compelled to return to camp without the team. Then Mary prayed and plead with the Lord to help them find the lost oxen. Immediately after, with renewed hope and confidence she left the camp. She walked toward the river. A man from the other camp rode up and told her he had seen the oxen going in the opposite direc-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
tion. She didn't even look up, but went right on as before, and soon found the team tied in a deep gulch hidden from view. The team was released, and the journey homeward was continued. This incident deeply impressed the young Joseph F. He knew his mother always trusted implicitly in the Lord. Mary Fielding Smith determined to emigrate to the Salt Lake Valley and so started on that historic trek westward. She prayerfully maintained her integrity of purpose and pushed vigorously on, despite many discouraging circumstances. There were animals as well as children to feed and care for. Nursing the sick in wagons was a laborious service. Pulling heavily-laden wagons out of mud holes was a common occurrence. Yet, with faith and courage these and many other difficulties were overcome, and gratitude was freely expressed. The Smith family finally arrived in Salt Lake Valley where they could retire at night without being disturbed by mobs. But farm work was hard and the faithful mother toiled early and late to make a living for her family. These arduous duties sapped her strength. With her cherished family around her, she passed away when but 51 years of age, "a heroine in her own right." It was written of her, "Mary Fielding Smith was a saint if ever one lived on this troubled earth. She was beautiful to look upon—trim, straight, dark-haired and dark-eyed, with delicately blooming cheeks. Refinement, strength, courage, integrity, modesty and infinite sweetness and tenderness—these were her prevailing characteristics." Socrates said, "Life is a gift of na-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
ture, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." And Ruskin wrote: "The weakest among us has a gift, however seemingly trivial, which is peculiar to him and which worthily used will be a gift also to his race." How may we obtain these gifts? By living as our Lord would have us live, by obeying the principles given us by His prophets. We can "serve far beyond our dreams if we have sufficient faith," and "faith must become active through works."
INFLUENCES OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME Achsa E. Paxman Member of General Board of Relief Society
IN a lone hut, in the midst of severe poverty, among plain, hardworking folk, Abraham Lincoln found all that was needed to nurture a good and great man—the greatest in the annals of his country, beloved in all the world. From a life of hard work on a farm under pioneer conditions, associating with humble, toiling people, the Lord chose and called the boy Joseph Smith to be the prophet of this dispensation. But the greatest wonder of history is that God our Father decreed that His Son should be born in a stable, chastened by struggle, disappointment, and sorrow, his only teachers a believing mother, work, nature, and the Book. The wonder and glory of life is contained in the life-stories of these three characters: thus born, thus conditioned, thus educated under God's guiding influence, they lived to do His will and accomplish His purpose. Home is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want our Church to be we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. The most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion. It helps us to face danger, disappointment, and sorrow, and to put our trust in the Lord. It must be acquired early and exercised throughout life. It is a great influence and blessing in every Latter-day Saint home. We are the mothers in the Church. A mother is responsible for the atmosphere of the home. If our children are to do their part we must do ours. A mother who can plant devotion and faith in God in her child has already laid a good foundation for a fine and happy life. The blessing on the food and family prayers give spiritual joy and gratitude in the home. Hard feelings cannot survive if family prayers are held in the home. Unless we are capable wives and wise mothers who teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and righteousness, we have fallen short of our goal in spite of all our accomplishments. As mothers, it doesn't matter, when we die, whether we scrubbed our floors every day or not, but it does matter whether we taught our children the Word of Wisdom, had family prayers, and whether or not they have a testimony of the Gospel. As members of this Church we have been given the promise that if we will live in keeping with the Word of Wisdom we shall have health and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge. A mother who had always lived the Word of Wisdom and taught it in the home entered an upstairs bedroom and found her own boy and a neighbor's boy smoking cedar bark made into imitation cigarettes. She talked to the boys quietly and impressively about the Word of Wisdom and the harmful effects of tobacco. She hoped her son would never be a smoker. She immediately introduced a building and painting program where they and other neighbor boys were kept busy in their leisure moments, and much constructive work was accomplished. Years afterwards this boy said to his mother, "When you came into that room and found us smoking cedar bark, I was mighty scared and expected a reprimand; but when you talked so kindly and instructively, it touched a spark in my soul that brought a determined resolution to abstain from the use of tobacco and liquor. With the home teaching and the continued instruction in the Church regarding the Word of Wisdom, I have never broken my resolution." This boy has acquired a fine education, has filled a mission, and has performed many positions of trust in the Church. This boy's life might have been different without the influence of this Latter-day Saint home. An ideal to which the Church has always been dedicated is the ideal of personal chastity and purity. Our Church leaders have always exhorted us to keep ourselves clean. Elder John Henry Smith related
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
an incident a few years ago about a German gentleman and scholar, an expert mineralogist, whom he had met during his travels for the Church. This man, with his seventy years, stood straight and strong and vigorous. His business or profession had taken him into every great mining region of the world. After graduating from the University of Berlin at the age of nineteen, he had gone to South America to begin his life's career. When he took his little mother in his arms to tell her goodby, she gripped his shoulders and searching his face and soul with her keen, penetrating eyes, she asked, "Are you clean, my boy?" "Yes, Mother, I came to you after my years at the University as clean as when you taught me my prayer at your knee." He returned to visit his mother several times with always the same report of purity and unblemished character. In his last goodby his mother said, "When you come home to me beyond, you will come with hands, and lips, and heart, clean and sweet." Every mother desires chastity and purity to characterize the lives of her children. What an influence and blessing to home and Church if our success is as complete as that of the German mother with her son! The Latter-day Saint home is where our boys and girls learn what life really is, what it means to know God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ. Through our homes our children respond to the teachings in Primary, M. I. A., Sunday School, and seminary; hidden treasures of knowledge unfold themselves; the standard works of the Church are clearer; life is infinitely happier.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
AMERICA—A CHOICE LAND Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor
Six hundred years before Christ, an American prophet and seer looked down the vista of twenty centuries and foretold the discovery of this nation by Columbus. Nephi, in the Book of Mormon, said: "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land." (I Nephi 13.) The "man among the Gentiles" we believe to be Christopher Columbus. It was my good fortune at one time to do some research on the life of this man, and I was deeply impressed with the motivating spirit of his existence. As one biographer said: "The kernel of his being was restlessness. He was always on the move until his death. He wandered unceasingly from country to country and sailed from sea to sea, one of the most tormented figures that history has ever known." Another biographer has written: "One divines a man burning in the conviction of a mission, but knowing not as yet of his direction and seeing no path before him." One of our own Church writers of this day and age has said of Columbus: "It was not doubt that drove Columbus across the sea; it was faith—the impelling force of the spirit of the Lord." The Lord, speaking through Jacob, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi 10, says that America shall be a "land of liberty" and "it is a choice land... above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me." America a choice land in what particulars? Choice in its physical features: the beauty of its mountains, valleys, lakes, trees, geological formations, etc. Choice, too, because of the spirit which broods over it—the spirit of freedom—and because it has been the haven for many of the world's oppressed. Choice because it was the nation chosen for the restoration of the Gospel. Choice because we believe men were raised up to prepare its Constitution. Choice because Zion is to be established on this continent. Numbers of people who have traveled this country from "sea to shining sea" have revelled in its delightful features; but now in the time of peril confronting many of the nations of the earth it becomes, with its peacefulness and liberty, indeed a choice land. America and its people have been promised rich blessings, but like all other blessings given to mankind these, too, rest upon obedience to principles upon which these blessings are predicated. Let us look back upon these prophecies. The people of the land shall prosper and enjoy the favor of heaven "so long as they follow righteousness and maintain the pure principles upon which this government was founded." The Latter-day Saints hold "that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States are inspired documents, framed by men under Divine direction." Probably we, as mothers in the home, are not doing enough to teach our children a love of this country of ours with its God-directed background and history. Democracy can not be maintained as a pattern of government unless it is understood, and people must be educated to value the heritage which we, perhaps, have come to accept as a matter of course. Surely it is not too early to teach the children at our knees the principles of democratic government. In the record of the Jaredites, the Lord in speaking of this land states further: "Behold this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." Women in this generation are faced with a bewildering array of choices, and many tempting opportunities await them for self-development. Sometimes there is difficulty in choosing wisely and well the things that will endure in our lives and the lives of our loved ones. The whole alluring world of art, literature, science, music, poetry, and painting beckons to be made our own; but let us never forget that a study of these can never be made a substitute for the Gospel. These are placed on earth to delight the hearts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940 of the people, but "salvation itself comes only by one route—the Gospel of Jesus Christ." The Lord has said, "To be learned is good if we hearken unto the counsels of God," and the Lord has specifically stated in this prophecy that this land shall be a land of liberty only so long as the people of the land serve Jesus Christ. Let us urge the keeping of the commands of the Lord, and with this will come the worship of God the Father. The mother in her home and in her management of her home often is the determining factor as to whether the family are churchgoers on Sunday morning. If the Sabbath day has been anticipated by her and preparation made and urged by her upon the family, the. Physical factors in that home are usually conducive for church attendance. Are we doing our full share in this regard; if so, we are helping to maintain this land as a land of liberty. Ever since the restoration of the Gospel, women in the Church, as they have learned the principles of truth, must have felt some necessity of obeying our Father and worshiping Him; but with the liberties of life, speech and the press abolished in many countries of the world, the words of the Lord in regard to the destiny of this country come with a fresh power of appeal and should motivate us anew in our determination to do all within our power to serve the Lord and assist our families in this regard. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 345 THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE Amy Brown Lyman, General President The Coming Centennial of Relief Society LACKING but two years, Relief Society has covered the span of a full century, a century distinguished by great achievements. Life to- _ day is very different from that of a hundred years ago. New methods of locomotion have been inaugurated, new methods of conveying thought and sound discovered, labor-saving devices have been invented, and striking progress has been made in the scientific and educational world. One hundred years ago there were no steamships, and Church immigrants were weeks crossing the ocean. Parley P. Pratt and family were ten weeks on a voyage from England to New Orleans in 1843. Farmers were harvesting by hand, women were doing all their sewing by hand, and nobody could send a telegram or cablegram, or a telephone message. Some of the achievements of this century of progress are: railways, steamships, automobiles, airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio, television, phonograph; photography, moving and talking pictures; friction matches, gas illumination, electric lights; typewriting and adding machines, dictaphones, sewing machines; anesthetics, antiseptic surgery, plastic surgery, germ theory of disease, Xray, preventive health work; scientific welfare work; abolition of slavery, emancipation of women. Relief Society has witnessed all of these great achievements. Relief Society supported the whole campaign for woman suffrage, which was won only after a struggle of seventytwo years—from 1848 to 1920. But remarkable as were the achievements of the century, the tragic failures cannot be overlooked —the failure to solve economic and social problems, the failure to eliminate war and crime, poverty and unemployment. These destructive forces are still with us. I am sure we shall all be looking forward with happy anticipation to our Relief Society centennial two years hence. We shall also be inspired and thrilled in looking back over the history, background, traditions, and achievements of the Society, and over the history of the Church and of the century. As we look back over the long winding road which has been traveled, I am sure we shall be able to visualize the brave women of each period who have made their contribution to the organization, given liberally of their time and talent, and then have passed the work on to others, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage to those who have followed. Nauvoo Centennial On June 24 and 25, 1939, Sister Robison and I visited Nauvoo to attend the centennial of the founding of that city. One of the meetings was devoted to Relief Society. It was held on the lawn adjoining the exact spot where the Society was first organized, near the recently erected Relief Society monument and on the banks of the great Mississippi. The organization meeting was re-enacted with three missionaries taking the parts of the three brethren—Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards, and with 18 women missionaries representing the charter members. It was a thrilling experience and brought tears to the eyes of many in attendance. The temple block, where most of the meetings were held, consists of four one-acre lots, and is about half the size of one of our large city blocks here. Two-fifths of the block has been purchased by the Church, including the old well which supplied the temple font. We were also thrilled to sit where that sacred edifice once stood which was built with so much faith and sacrifice, and was so ruthlessly destroyed.
Church Welfare Program
Of vital interest to Relief Society today, as well as to the Church itself, is the Church welfare program, some of the details of which we have discussed elsewhere. This program contemplates the proper care of those who cannot work and the providing of work for the able-bodied unemployed, and we are bending every effort to this end. The philosophy back of this program is that those who are unable to work and are dependent—such as little children, the aged and handicapped—should be properly cared for according to their needs; that those who are able to work should work for what they receive; that normal, well-adjusted people prefer to work for their needs and should have the opportunity and privilege to do so; that, where work is not available
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
in industry or through other regular channels, effort should be made to supply it if humanly possible through neighborly cooperative efforts, through the fostering of new industries, and through projects of make-work with wages; and, finally, that those who are able to give should give liberally. The spirit back of the program is unselfishness, the Golden Rule, fraternal friendship for those less well-off, brotherly love based on the Christian ideals of the brotherhood of man, reverence for human personality, and recognition of the value of the soul. Ever in mind is the injunction of the Master, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." With such fine objectives and ideals back of it, with its basis in fundamental principles and standards of justice and charity which have stood the test of time and which apply to all ages, and with three-fourths of a million people united in its interests, this program, in spite of problems and in spite of obstacles seemingly insurmountable at times, is bound to achieve and to be constructive and helpful in all of our Church communities. It is our firm conviction that war itself could be eliminated if people everywhere would accept and apply these ideals. The unemployment situation does not seem to improve. The latest estimates are that eleven million people are out of work. Throughout the whole nation it seems to have become chronic in form and is eating at the very foundation of independence and livelihood. For ten
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
years the country has grappled with this condition and still seems not to have found the way out. With machinery constantly displacing workers, and with maladjustments in the economic world, the problem seems to become even bigger. It was estimated only recently that when the machines which have been invented for picking cotton are installed, hundreds of cotton pickers will also be forced into idleness. We believe in work, we glorify work. We favor work and wages for those in need who are employable. Work for subsistence gives the person in need an opportunity to make a contribution for the assistance he receives rather than to take something for nothing. If full-time work is not obtainable, we favor part-time work. Any fraction of a job is better than no job at all. We believe, naturally, that work to which a given individual is adapted or for which he is trained, is best for him; work in which his faculties have the freest possible play is ideal. But if desirable work cannot be secured, he should accept gladly whatever type of honest work is obtainable. It is most gratifying to observe the large number of successful Church work projects which have been developed in the various localities as a result of the vision, ingenuity and devotion of the general and local welfare committees and the workers themselves. The far-reaching effects of these projects cannot begin to be estimated in terms of dollars and cents. Along with our curative or relief program, we are placing special emphasis on the preventive features of our work, which have already accomplished so much, but the benefits of which cannot be estimated financially. We are trying to provide ways and means whereby people can maintain their independence and thus preserve their morale, and we are especially proud of the results obtained. We are trying to make it possible for people to meet their own problems. We believe that the feeling or sense of achievement and of power that springs from meeting and making one's own adjustments is too precious a possession to be denied to any human being. We feel that that which prevents a crisis and thus makes for the independence and development of a person who is economically threatened, that which increases his strength and adds to his character, should be the aim of all who are truly interested in the welfare of others. Thus, constructive, preventive welfare work is one of our chief goals. Such work, like preventive medicine or public health work, is bound to be far-reaching and to produce permanent results. We are trying to teach and to practice careful planning, thrift, frugality and economy, and the avoidance of the bondage of debt. We are trying to live within our means and to encourage others to do the same. The generosity of our people is to be commended. Fast-day donations and other contributions are given gladly, as well as hours and days of time and faithful service. Surely they will be rewarded for their generosity and willing service.
Support of Other Church Projects
The General Board commends and bespeaks the support of all Relief Society women for the Deseret Industries, which salvages and reconditions for sale at reasonable prices used clothing, furniture, and equipment; the Church campaign for the non-use of alcohol and tobacco; and the Church-wide program for the beautification of our homes and churches.
Sacrament Meeting and Fast Meeting
The ward bishops are making a great effort to increase attendance at the regular Sacrament meeting and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
at Fast meeting. These are considered the most important of all our meetings. We urge Relief Society women to support the bishops in this matter, not only by attending regularly themselves, but by using their influence in interesting the young people in these important services. The development of testimony is most important; the stability of the Church depends in large measure on the individual testimony of its members.
MOTHER TO DAUGHTER (A Response For Mother's Day)
Daughter of mine, if I only could tell you How the love that you give me illumines my way, How I have rejoiced when good fortune befell you, And the depth of the tribute I bring you today!
My life would be marred and unfinished without you, Like an incomplete painting of faulty design; Love sheds a bright halo of happiness round you, The fulfillment of promise, O daughter of mine!
Daughter of mine, how I wish I might shield you From harm and from danger through each passing year; This thing I can do—I pray Heaven to yield you The strength and the courage to overcome fear.
I will trust that you ever may keep a clear vision, That your way may lead upward, though others decline; That a pure faith may help you in every decision To keep your ideals, O daughter of mine!
Daughter of mine, if you knew the deep measure Of joy your companionship brings to my heart, That I count it my richest and most beloved treasure, The choicest of blessings that fall to my part.
Let us guard it then, carefully, lest we should lose it, This nearness of spirit, this love so divine; Lift a prayer to our Father, who will not refuse it, To bless us together, O daughter of mine!
—Gertrude Perry Stanton.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
Amy Brown Lyman - - President Marcia K. Howells - - First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - Secretary-Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie - - Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens - - Achsa E. Paxman Rae B. Barker - - Mary G. Judd
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Luella N. Adams - - Marianne C. Sharp Leona B. Fetzer - - Edith S. Elliott Pauline T. Pingree - - Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton - - Editor - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVII MAY, 1940 No. 5
EDITORIAL
Conference Recollections
HONEST, prayerful men and women met in recent conference assembled and heard not only the words of our absent Prophet and President but the admonitions and advice of President Grant's devoted counselors who carried the major burden of this conference. The Saints felt the unity of the presidency of the Church in purpose, will, wisdom and power. The words which were heard at the Tabernacle, on the Tabernacle grounds, and over radios in the homes struck a responsive chord in the hearts of thousands; and a feeling of peace and confidence in the strength of those who preside pervaded those minds who yearned to receive instruction and benefits. Mormonism has been termed a practical religion, and in President J. Reuben Clark, Jr's., address a summary of the topics mentioned would be sufficient to convince anyone that the spiritual life of the people of this Church is closely allied with the physical activity of its people. A balanced Church budget was reported with the suggestion that, "The First Presidency would like to urge every member of the Church to follow the example set by the Church and to live within his income"; the accomplishments of the Church welfare program were conveyed; the sharing of Church buildings by joint occupancy of two wards was commended; the support of the beautification program was urged; the province of the auxiliaries was announced as being under consideration; mention was made of the withdrawal of 697 individuals from the European missions in three months' time, and the duties of the Priesthood received particular stress. Several matters of interest in this address of pungent wisdom attracted particularly the attention of the women of the Church. The tribute paid womankind for her influence in comforting and nursing the Church in times past stimulated mingled emotions. Gratefulness for the privilege of serving in such a capacity was felt, and a feeling of self-respect for the type of service rendered was also present. The women of the Relief Society noted the following statement: "One of the principal, if not the main, purposes of the auxiliaries must be to help the parents to help their children, and this can only be effectively worked out through the home." If in the past this fundamental has ever been side-tracked to any extent in this organization, this Society resolves anew to not only build the women of the Church individually, but also to do all in its power to encourage the direct application of that which the women may have acquired to the further strengthening and building up of those in the home circle. The women of the Relief Society have been vitally concerned with the recent Church welfare program. They have unstintingly given of their time and effort in furthering this great cause. Now the time has come, and the call has been made for the utilization of the efforts of our predecessors in this Society in assisting with this present program in welfare activities of the Priesthood. President Clark told of the building of a large grain elevator as part of the program of Church welfare and then quoted from a letter written in 1918 concerning "the reinvesting of the Relief Society Wheat Fund." This letter was signed by the President of the Church, the Presiding Bishop of the Church and the President of the Relief Society, and the last two paragraphs said: "The money received for the wheat the government has taken must be kept in the banks and draw interest. In no case should it be loaned out or used for any purposes whatsoever other than the purchase of wheat, as it is a sacred trust fund which can be used only for the purpose for which it is donated.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
"When the time comes to again invest this money in the purchase of wheat, you will be advised of it by the Presiding Bishopric and the General Board of Relief Society." President Clark then continued: "We are... re-investing the wheat money in wheat, and we aim to keep it re-invested in that way as part of the Church Welfare Plan. This move has the whole-hearted and complete approval of the Relief Society sisters, to whom as a matter of fact the fund belongs." Our souls were deeply stirred as the prophet of the Lord issued a call to sisters of the Church to preserve the chastity of the youth of the Church. President Clark further said: "Mothers in Israel, teach your sons to honor and revere, to protect to the last, pure womanhood; teach your daughters that their most priceless jewel is a clean, undefiled body; teach both sons and daughters that chastity is worth more than life itself." Even as the brethren were reminded that holding the Priesthood brings with it the obligation of instructing, encouraging and admonishing the people, so the women of the Church were charged with the responsibility of maintaining in the youth that "pearl of great price"—a clean body. Women of the Church are the logical guardians and teachers in this important duty, because they have known at what great cost a soul comes into the world; and they have known, too, the endless tasks demanded at their hands before manhood or womanhood has been reached. Who, more than they, have grieved when the progress of a life has been deterred? It is good to be reminded again of our burden and
EDITORIAL
obligation by a prophet of the Lord who is keenly alert to the inspiration of our Father. Women sense the prevailing factors which have a tendency to weaken even the strongest barriers they may try to build up in youth against unchastity. The use of the automobile and the consequent ease with which one can get away to isolated places, movies which excite the emotions, free association of the sexes with a decline in proper chaperonage, the widespread advertisement of alcohol, salacious literature which may be purchased at many news-stands, late hours at parties—all these are challenges awaiting the full use of our powers in meeting. Here is no simple task, but one demanding eternal vigilance, all the ability one possesses and, too, demanding a humility before the Lord with a seeking of Him often in prayer for guidance. This obligation must and shall be assumed; for with our belief in the eternity of the marriage covenant and the projection of the family into the eternities, every soul is most precious, and not one can be lost without serious consequences to the resultant happiness of that family. —D. D. S.
Mother's Day
A BIT of old Dutch wisdom comes to us in the quotation, "He that remembers God and his mother is shielded against all evil." The second Sunday in May has been set apart for loving remembrance of mother, for a glance back through the pages of time and a recollection of the lessons she has taught and the principles she has endeavored to inculcate in us. It is a day in which our appreciation for her loving service and our thankfulness for her life are expressed in word and deed. It is a day dedicated to the most powerful force for good the world has ever known—mother love. That a special day is necessary to induce one to recall mother and to stimulate expressions of appreciation for her is difficult to understand. She who has shared our troubles, rejoiced in our successes, she who has largely charted the course of our lives and has been our best friend should continuously be the recipient of expressions of appreciation stimulated by a constant awareness of her sacrifices, her strength, her love and her influence for good. Perhaps a reminder is necessary merely because we are careless and so engrossed in our own affairs that we neglect to do the thing we know we should do and would really like to do. But all too often children magnify their own powers and minimize the influences that have contributed most to their strength; they become so accustomed to the strengthening influence of mother that they lose sight of it; they forget their obligations of love and gratitude to her. William George Jordan says, "Ingratitude is a crime more despicable than revenge, which is only returning evil for evil, while ingratitude returns evil for good." The tasks confronting a mother are not easy. Though they bring their compensations, their satisfactions and joys, she who fills this position in life experiences moments of sorrow, days of anxiety, great sacrifices and responsibilities which cannot be evaded. The mother of yesterday, presiding over the home where she was the central figure in a closely-knit family, living in a world of rather even tempo, had a sufficiently difficult time; but today's mother finds herself living in a world of confusion. She faces a stream-lined, speeded-up world, and stands dismayed. The life patterns of her youth are not the patterns of her children's day. Her pleasures were to be found around the piano in the family parlor while her daughter seeks hers in a high-powered car. Mingling with girls who smoked or used alcoholic beverages in mother's youth would have made her a social outcast; daughter lives in a world where such things are socially acceptable to many people. Understanding between youth and maturity seems to be a constantly widening gap. Economic problems today are pronounced. Living standards are growing increasingly high, and human wants are multitudinous. The simple things that brought joy to mother's heart would scarcely thrill the girl of today. The problem of bridging the gap between mother and children, the task of meeting economic needs, the difficulties involved in rearing a fam-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1940
ily in an atmosphere of kindness and affection, of allowing freedom without license, of maintaining daily intimate relationships with children, of earning their respect, of establishing mutual interests and understanding in today's world are overwhelming. The mother of today must realize that "instinct doesn't furnish all the equipment necessary to meet her child-rearing problems, and mother love is not an adequate substitute for knowledge and efficiency." She must make a scientific approach to her task of child guidance. She must recognize that divine wisdom must be constantly applied in solving her problems. She must wisely appraise her situation and earnestly strive to cope with the present and preserve fundamental values. Every effort must be exerted to wisely direct and adequately supervise children, that they may be fortified to live well in a topsy-turvy world. Surely, such mothers will be successful mothers, mothers who not only merit the praise of a nation on Mother's Day but the deep-seated, everyday gratitude of those whose lives they mold—that gratitude which is "thankfulness expressed in daily action—the heart's recognition of kindness that lips cannot repay." —B. S. S.
DISCRIMINATION By Olive McHugh
"Your Mother is a lovely rose," I hear my neighbor say. She senses not variety; My Mother is a choice bouquet.
EDITORIAL
Elder George Albert Smith Observes Birthday
APRIL 4, 1940, Lion House, Salt Lake City: Seventy tall and stately, pure-white candles burned brightly, each representing a year in the life of Elder George Albert Smith, each year filled with service, kindliness and love, each year the world made better for his having lived. The candles, mounted on a seven-foot base for the birthday cake, were a real work of art—each of the four tiers banded with candy ribbons, fancy bows and flowers and topped with a candy basket filled with candy flowers. Fresh roses, iris, lilies and ferns banked the seven-yard table, covered with a handmade, white lace cloth over yellow satin. The entrance to the reception room was draped in green and gold satin by the stalwarts of M. I. A. A graphic display of pictures of monument work represented accomplishments of the Landmarks and Trails Association during his administration as president. A unique exhibit of delegate badges and credentials represented scores of conventions and types of service. A life history in photographs of Elder Smith and his beautiful wife, Lucy Emily Woodruff Smith, told of their happy life together. Her sweet influence was felt all evening. Hundreds of beautiful flowers filled all the rooms—gifts from friends, corporations, and organizations. Sweet young girls and stately matrons of abiding accomplishments were ready to assist with the serving. Boy Scouts in uniform were at assigned posts. Eight o'clock, the opening hour of the reception, arrived. Elder Smith and his family stood ready to receive their guests. Would anyone come? No personal invitations had been issued. The press, organizations, and radio had notified the community that the family of George Albert Smith would like to have the public join them in honoring their father on the anniversary of his birth as well as giving them the opportunity to say "thank you" to the hundreds of people who had been kind to him through the years. The historic door of the Lion House opened, and for two and one-half hours "friends" called to shake hands, express good wishes, and leave their happy smiles forever to be a sacred memory of a great occasion. Officers both of national and local Scouting and officers of Sons of the American Revolution, the Governor, Mayor of Salt Lake City, other representatives of city and state, officials of all churches, your neighbors and mine, youth and age, all came to extend greetings to the respected churchman. During the evening, the Boy Scouts and M. I. A. had a broadcast from the Lion House. Mr. Chuck, National Boy Scout executive, Governor Henry H. Blood, and Scouts in uniform and a soloist, appeared on the radio program. Miss Irene Jones, remarkable blind teacher of the blind, read an original poem. The joyous occasion passed into history, leaving hundreds of birthday cards, more than two thousand names in the guest book, a basket of telegrams and the memories of the smiles, kind words and thoughts of countless relatives and friends—a great tribute to a great man.—E. S. E.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MAY
Sweet remembrance comes when blooms the earth in all its tender loveliness.
A RECENT survey in the world of books reveals some surprising facts concerning the trend of thought. Books on economics, sociology and medicine lead, followed by religious subjects and fiction, while history and biography are not so popular.
MLLE DE MORSIER, head of Save the Children International Union, is cooperating with the Red Cross in Latvia, Lithuania and Rumania in assisting Polish refugees. Among those seeking aid are Mme. Grabinska, a Polish Government official, and Janina Kolczicka, famous Polish actress who was found dying on the Russ-Lithuanian frontier.
GENORA PLASIDAS AMARILLAS, of Mexico, 109 years old, is visiting a son in California; and Cynthia Ann Robertson, of Missouri, 100, is relating to relatives in St. Joseph the high cost of living in the days of her girlhood.
HORTENSE ODLUM, president of that smartest of Fifth Avenue shops, Bonwit Teller, recently sponsored a group of illustrated fashion lectures de luxe with living models from her shop, displaying and discussing wardrobes particularly designed for career and business and professional women. "Packing a Convention Bag" was one of the delightful topics.
ETTIE DAY of New York conducts a wholesale trucking business handling tons of freight weekly. She began this unusual career for a woman at the age of 15 in the office of her father, from whom she inherited the business which she has successfully carried on for 17 years.
LIEN-YUAN YAO, Chinese scholar and war correspondent, in a recent tour across the United States, with sincere reason predicted victory for her people in the present war with Japan. Miss Yao spent a year on the Chinese battlefields and twice narrowly escaped death.
MAXINE ELLIOTT, American actress of unusual beauty and charm, recently died in her luxurious villa on the French Riviera, where for many years she was known as an international hostess, often having as guests kings, princes, dukes, and earls. During the World War she did heroic service as a Red Cross nurse.
FRANCES MAUGHAN VERNON, of Utah, devoted wife and mother, died last month. She was a leader in educational and social work among women, a former legislator and member of the state Agricultural College board.
EFFIE PECK ELDREDGE of Utah died last month. She was a lifelong worker in Church auxiliaries and for many years stake president of Relief Society in Bannock and South Davis stakes; also a valiant member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers.
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER SEVEN
"WHERE were you?" Carolyn asked Carson the evening after the dance. She had had no chance to discuss the matter with him in the morning, for they had risen late and there had been a rush to get to work. "Oh, around," he answered, noncommittally. Turner looked up from his book. "Where were you last night? And I don't like the way you have been acting today." When the boy did not answer, Dennis said, "I bet I know." "I bet you don't, wise guy. You are not as keen as you think." Carolyn had been watching Turner's face. "I am sorry you missed the dance, Carson. It was the nicest party there has been in the valley for a long time." "Mama danced every time," Judy volunteered, eagerly. "Yes, Mama danced every time," Jerry echoed, "but Bob had a fight with Lucile. He is going over this evening to make up." Bob looked up quickly. "Who told you that, baby?" Jerry ran to climb on his lap. "Denny said you would 'cause Lucile is awful, awful angry." "But he hopes you don't," Judy added, following her sister. "And Dell said you are in love with June. What does that mean?" Bob buried his face in his sister's curls. Carolyn, watching, answered. "Dell was just talking honey." "You twins are the worst snoopers," Dennis cried angrily, "you hear everything that doesn't happen." "Dennis!" his father warned. Dennis looked at his sisters. "Babies! You get your own way all the time." Jerry tightened her arm about Bob's neck. "What's being in love?" she asked again. "Is it not like I don't like Denny?" They all laughed. "You said it," Dennis answered. "Then it is all right," Judy beamed, "'cause I asked her." "Asked who what?" Bob demanded in alarm. "I asked June did she love you, and she said, 'Maybe.'" "Where did you see June?" Turner asked sharply. Then before they could answer, he turned to his wife, "I hope you haven't let them cross the river." "I saw her to Primary." Judy was surprised that they could not understand. "An' one day she came over here." "Did she come over here?" "Uh-huh. When Daddy was fixing the fence, and we were waiting. She came across the river on her pony." "What did—did she want?" Bob asked. "I don't know. But she didn't like Papa." "Did she say so?" Dennis glanced quickly at his father. "No-o, but when she saw him she said, 'Oh!' cross as anything." During the laugh that followed, Turner turned to his second-born. "You didn't tell us where you were last night. I listened for you, and it was nearly morning when you came in." Carson, in spite of his mother's protests, had brought his boots in and was rubbing one with an oiled rag. Now he laid it aside, elaborately, and rose to his feet. "If you must know, we went over to the Cross Line." "The what!" Even the twins sensed that this was an occasion and ceased their chatter. The silence that followed their father's words was ominous. Carson stood spraddle-legged facing his father. "The Cross Line. I got a job with them." Turner was speechless. "Have you lost your mind? I have made arrangements for you to go to school—and even if I hadn't, working up there would be out of the question. No child of mine shall work in such a place. They are a drunken, thieving outfit." "I start work there Monday. At least no one will yell at me. If he does, I'll knock his teeth down his throat." Turner was standing now facing his defiant son. His hands were gripping the table, toward which he had moved. Carson's face was white and frightened, but there was no yielding in it. Carolyn, watching in terror, wondered what Mrs. Straughn would do in such a situation. The thought followed that Mrs. Straughn would never have to face such a situation. She would avoid the factors that would make it possible. "Carson," Carolyn stepped before him, "come into my room and let me talk to you." "It is no use, Mother. We might as well have this out now." "You must not go there, Carson. It isn't a decent outfit." He laughed shortly. "I can't see that this outfit is so hot. A lot of hypocrites, that's all we are—putting on a smooth surface and hating each other underneath." "You are not going." Turner's tone was flat. "Try and stop me." "Carson," the father spoke with deadly quietness, but his face was pale, "if you go to work for that outfit you stay there. Do you understand?" "Oh, no, no, Turner." Carolyn stepped before him. "You have no right to say such a thing." Without turning his eyes, Turner brushed her aside. Bob rose to stand by his brother. Carson's face twitched. "Okay," he said, unsteadily. "Tomorrow is as good as Monday." Turning stiffly, he went out. After a slow glance at his father, Bob followed. "Turner, stop him! You must go after him. You must bring him back." But Turner just stood staring at the closed door. He lifted one hand, looked at it, replaced it on the table; he lifted the other, looked at it, replaced it. "Comfort him," something said to Carolyn, "he needs it."
(Continued on page 358)
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
How To Teach A New Song Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
NOT until a song is learned by the conductor, as outlined last month, is it ready to be taught to the chorus. In presenting new music to a group of Singing Mothers it is best to teach by rote, assuming that none can read. Before anyone can sing a new tune, he must hear it enough to impress its general outline upon his memory. Therefore, it is best to begin teaching a new song by playing it completely through several times. The organist must, of course, be carefully instructed beforehand in the speed and dynamics to be used. When the sound of the piece becomes a little familiar, take one part at a time, phrase by phrase. Play the first phrase of the soprano part several times, while the sopranos listen without singing. Then have them hum or sing softly as the accompanist plays the phrase several more times. As it becomes more certain, allow them to sing louder and have the organist play softer, until they can sing it surely without accompaniment. Do this with each phrase, stopping at the end of each section or verse to put the phrases together. After all the phrases in a section are learned, it will require many repetitions to make sure the memorizing of the section as a whole; and when all the sections are learned, it will still take some time to make certain the smooth performance of the entire piece. Repeat with each part and with combinations of two parts before having all parts sing together. This entire procedure may have to be repeated at several rehearsals before the chorus will remember correctly. At each rehearsal after the first, pick out the hardest phrases to work most, leaving the easy ones until the singers begin to tire. When the notes have been memorized, the conductor's work begins. The chorus must now be taught the changes in speed and dynamics which the conductor has prepared. It is best not to talk much about interpretation. The very words we use do not mean the same to everyone, so even if all the members listen only a few will know what is meant. The language of pantomime is universally understood. All conducting technique is pantomime and therefore more readily comprehended than words. Make use of your technique to show the chorus how to sing, while it is singing. This will result always in better performance. The conductor, while on the podium, is supreme. Act with authority, or the chorus will not submit to you. When you step up to conduct, you are no longer the same person. You can do no wrong. You have no friends, no enemies. Your weaknesses are discarded, and only strength and authority remain. Even if you are not as well trained as your organist, still she must follow you in every detail, in spite of her own convictions. If you assume this authority, striving with all your energy toward a better performance as you see it, you will be rewarded always with results beyond your expectations.
Cathedral of Peace (Continued from page 356)
"No." She set her lips stubbornly. Let it hurt. He was always hurting others. It could not be possible for this to hurt him as it was hurting her, deep down where there were no tears. She turned and fled after her boys. In the yard she looked about. A long twilight was settling over the valley. There was no sign of Carson nor Bob. They were gone. Carson was gone. Perhaps Bob would bring him back. Even as she thought it, she knew he would not. Her boy was gone—out of her home forever.
(To be continued)
PLANT A GARDEN
There is talk about Depression, And I guess it is a fact, People claim they're undernourished, Yet for food we haven't lacked.
For you see, we have a garden! Vegetables of every kind Furnish food so fresh and wholesome, Without leaving bills behind.
People who are well and hearty Notice less the doleful signs; Optimism grows in gardens, Likewise, hope and vitamins.
If you're feeling blue and wishing Dull, depressing days would end, Just go out and plant a garden, It will prove a helpful friend.
—Jane Bradford Terry. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BUY |Fisher’s DUTCH BREAD Fisher's delicious DUTCH BREAD is made with plenty of milk and ether superb ingredients. And the extra care used in baking at Fisher's spic-and-span home - owned bakery assures EXTRA flavor and taste. Look for it at your grocers! A Fisher Master Baker Product High Religious and Cultural Values... A full quarter of spiritual and mental culture is offered at the Church University in the summer. Added to the excellent regular faculty are such visiting specialists as these: Dr. M. Lynn Bennion. Supervisor, L. D. S. Seminaries. Dr. Daryl Chase. Director, L. D. S. Institute, Tucson, Arizona. Dr. Ralph Horn, Dean, Buffalo State Teachers College, N. Y. Dr. Ned Dearborn, Dean, Division of General Education, New York University. Professor Ernest Jackman, Exchange Professor in Education, University of Maine Dr. George Stewart, Professor of Agronomy; U. S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service. Glenn Snow. President, Dixie Junior College. Glen Turner. Curator, Springville Art Gallery. First Term: June 10—July 19 Alpine Term: July 22—August 24 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH Life LIFE’S TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love LARKIN MORTUARY 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City Was. 5132—Hy. 180 LARKIN & SONS 466 24th Street, Ogden Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 