L. D. S. Training Pays!"
A Gift of Increasing Value
Give your son or daughter increased ability ? greater ? earning capacity ? a better illustrated chance to win life's battles.
Write today for information about our intensive, practical courses.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah
Get P-W?s New Garden BOOK
Sent FREE to all Planters requesting it. It is In natural colors and describes the new and worthwhile Seeds, Shrubs. Trees, adaptable to the West.
About our intensive, practical It tells how, what and when to plant.
Courses. ?SEND FOR YOUR FREE COPY TODAY
Porter-Walton Co.
42 West Ist So. Salt Lake City, Ut.
Cloverleaf Dairy 872
Deseret Book Co Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co 793
Larkin Mortuary F. F 0 Inside Front Cover
L. D. S. Business College 799
Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Inside Back Cover
Porter-Walton Co 799
Temple and Burial Clothes Inside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co 872
Z. C. M. I Outside Back Cover
A REAL TREAT For (Christmas!
Fishers BETTER FRUIT CAKES
A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
XXVII DECEMBER, 1940 No. 12
Contents
Special Features
Frontispiece—"Of Such Is The Kingdom'" Alice Morrey Bailey 800
Our Homes, (October Conference Address) President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 801
The Most Important Aspect of Christmas Elder Stephen L Richards 811
How To Glorify Christmas Gifts Lucile Wallace Wolf 816
Christmas Giving Dorothy L, Watkiss 818
Mrs, Santa Mary A. Nickerson 828
Make Way for Christmas Barbara Badger Burnett 831
Relief Society Magazine Drive—Honor Roll 859
Fiction
Dreams Are For Christmas Beatrice Rordame Parsons 821
General Features
Annie Wells Cannon 837
Happenings
Editorial:
Peace 838
Elders George 839
The Sunny Side of the Hill, "The Light That Never Fails" Lella Marler Hoggan 834
Excerpts from "Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow" Selected by Marianne C. Sharp 840
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—The Lord's Tenth—Lorenzo Snow 841
Visiting Teacher—Spiritual Preparation of the Home
Work and Business—Food for the Older Woman
Literature—The Tree of Liberty
Social Service—Aesthetic Values in Family Living
Mission—The Saints Find a New Home in the West 855
Poetry
The Children of Jerusalem Alice Morrey Bailey 799
Two Boys Patricia Bryson 833
Recompense LaRene King Bleecker 858
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

The Children of Jerusalem Alice Morrey Bailey
Perhaps Jerusalem's streets rang with the shouts Of their release from synagogue and school. Perhaps they were as quick to fight as ours— As loud in argument—precept and rule As often broken. Games were in their thought While Father prayed his long, sonorous prayer, And Mother's doting pride in manners, speech And dress as often tempered with despair.
Perhaps behind the plastered walls, ambushed, They threw ripe figs at Herod's soldiers—grand In burnished plates and tunics, plumes—or drew The pictures of their elders in the sand.
If, when they came to Him of Nazareth Who preached of love at well and market place, Their hands were grimed with dust, their faces smeared With dates and honey-cake, He tipped the face Of one, and, looking deep into the eyes Of childhood, seeing there the beauty, truth Of all the world unmarred by creeds of men, The guilelessness—the wholesome lack of fear, The eager and implicit faith of youth, The untouched purity of heart—the freedom Of a questing mind—He might have said The same of ours—OF SUCH AS THESE— THE KINGDOM!
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII DECEMBER, 1940 No. 12
Our Homes President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940)
THE Relief Society Presidency have asked me to speak to you today along the lines of the general theme of this Conference, —The Latter-day Saint Home — a Foundation for Righteous Living. I am grateful for the confidence which this request carries with it. I shall try to make what I say render obedience to that confidence.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY
May I begin by saying that the Relief Society of the Church is far and away the greatest woman's organization in the world. It is great not alone in its aims and purposes, which are to alleviate the want, misery, and suffering of humanity; not alone in its almost earth-wide reach, for it covers the bulk of the Christian world; not alone in the achievements of its activities, though it has brought to the needy, living where it worked, food, clothing, shelter, fuel; not though it has nursed those who were sick, buried the dead of the poor, comforted those who were downhearted; not though it has sustained those who were weak in spirit, built up righteousness in the hearts of the wayward, and brought the living truth into the homes of all who give it an abiding place, to their salvation and final exaltation,—the Relief Society is greatest, not alone because of all these, but because its directing head and the great bulk of all those who make up its membership share as of right in the blessings and promises of the priesthood borne by their husbands,—the Holy Priesthood of God; greatest because its leaders and members have the right to the inspiration of the Lord in the carrying on of their work; greatest because in their work of now almost a century they have been richly endowed by that inspiration, they have been constantly directed by the Spirit of the Lord which has never departed from them since the Prophet brought a few (18) of the sisters together and set them about their work. These, Sisters, have been your sacred opportunities, and your glorious, Christ-like achievements. This unique qualification of priesthood blessing and promise that is yours, that sets you apart from all other organizations, and that gives you a power and authority that no other woman's organization in the world possesses, brings with it certain duties and responsibilities which largely determine and fix your work, which in this view must follow the pattern of the labors of Jesus,—relieving human woe and ministering to spiritual wants. The Relief Society is the handmaid to the priesthood of God in carrying on His work for the salvation of men. This is the key to every task you undertake, it unlocks the door to your every duty, it opens the gate to all your activities. The merely social, cultural, and educational activity must be left primarily to other agencies.
OUR CELESTIAL HOME
To the Latter-day Saint, the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens. In that immortal hymn, "O My Father," which is more instinct with the eternal truths of eternal relationships and of being than any other brief utterance of our time, Sister Eliza R. Snow sang:
I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy Spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why.
In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there.
When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high?
Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you.
Thus we came from a celestial home to this earth; we shall return to a celestial home when we leave this world. In that home Jesus is our Elder Brother, which shows our dignity, our rights, and our privileges. His words about His mother and His brethren, when they sought Him as He taught the people, thus take on a tender meaning and lose all tone of rebuke:
"Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." (Matt. 12:48-50)
The vision of Peter that he might go to Cornelius, runs also to the universal brotherhood of men. (Acts 10)
The priesthood-born home is the loftiest spiritual organism of which we know. Only through it can the highest exaltation come. So we may profitably consider briefly the antecedents of those of us who have come to this earth and how and why we came.
OUR INTELLIGENCES
First a few words about our intelligences,—originally uncreated and, it has been declared, co-existent with our Father.
The Lord said to Abraham: "I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen,
"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;
"And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." (Abraham 3:21-23)
The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph that:
"Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." (D. & C. 93:29)
Thus has the Lord spoken as to the eternal intelligences.
OUR SPIRITUAL BODIES
Next, as to our spirits, our spiritual bodies, for after the event which God showed to Abraham He created our spiritual bodies, for the Lord has declared as to His creations:
"For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.... And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air.... Nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word." (Moses 3:5 ff)
THE LORD'S SPIRITUAL BODY
Jesus showing himself to the brother of Jared said:
"Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image.
"Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh." (Ether 3:15-16)
Centuries after this, when in dire extremity for his fellow righteous Nephites, Nephi cried mightily unto the Lord, the voice of the Lord came to him saying:
"Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world.... " (3 Nephi 1:13)
THE FIRST AND SECOND ESTATES
In His teachings to Abraham the Lord also said:
"And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell;
"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." (Abraham 3:24-26)
OUR THREEFOLD PERSONALITY
To begin this Great Design, Adam, the first man, was created. The manner in which the spirit body housing the intelligence came into the mortal body of Adam was told to Abraham in this language:
"And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul." (Abraham 5:7)
Thus, in the setting up of the family unit that God established on this earth there were in its development, first the intelligences—co-existent, it has been declared, with God, and uncreated—which was organized and among whom God came down; then there were created spiritual bodies by the Creator, bodies even as Jesus showed Himself to possess to the brother of Jared; and then to these spiritual bodies there were given bodies of flesh, just as Jesus took on a fleshly body; so as to each of us today there is an intelligence, a body of the spirit, and a body of flesh; and the end and purpose of all this is, as the Lord told Abraham, that "they (we) might have glory added upon their (our) heads for ever and ever."
Thus in our existence here, we are carrying out the plan which was made for the great celestial family of which we are a part; we are going forward as the children of our God and fitting into the pattern He made for us. The place we shall hold in God's household, in God's family, in our heavenly and eternal home, whether it shall be in the inner family circle, or outside in the halls and ante-rooms, depends wholly upon what we ourselves do here.
HOW FAMILIES ARE BUILT
But the creation of a fleshly tabernacle for the one spirit, Adam, was only the beginning. There were myriads of other spirits to be given bodies. The Great Design provided the method, the eternal method, by which other fleshly tabernacles to house other spirits should be created. It must be done through families, husband and wife. Earth homes must be made in the pattern of the heavenly and eternal home. So the Creator, no helpmeet being found for man amongst all the then created things, declared:
"It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him," and "made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
"And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
"Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh." (Gen. 2:18-24; Moses 3:18 ff; Abraham 5:14 ff)
"And I, God, created man in mine own image, in the image of mine Only Begotten created I him; male and female created I them." (Moses 2:27)
Paul who seems to have been not overfond of woman, declared to the Corinthians that man "is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
"For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man.
"Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man....
"Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.
"For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God." (I Cor. 11:7 ff)
These were the purposes and the principles and thus was declared the significance, that lay behind the establishment of the family on this earth. As Paul said: "man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord."
PEOPLING THE EARTH
The first commandment given to Adam was "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth." (Moses 2:28)
Eve sang her hymn of gladness when she came to understanding after the Fall:
"Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 5:11)
Lehi teaching his son Jacob said:
"And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen.... And they would have had no children...." (2 Nephi 2:22-23)
But having fallen "they have brought forth children; yea, even the family of all the earth." (id, v. 20)
"But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things.
"Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy.
"And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may redeem the children of men from the fall. And because that they are redeemed from the fall they have become free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon, save it be by the punishment of the law at the great and last day, according to the commandments which God hath given.
"Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself.
"And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit;
"And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own kingdom." (2 Nephi 2:24-29)
So began the Earth family from which we spring, the First unit organism on this earth that marks the perfect relationship between man and woman.
OUR RETURN TO OUR CELESTIAL HOME
In our probationary period here—for we are on probation to determine whether we can keep this our second estate—we are working out the family plan of the celestial family, —that family of which Sister Eliza R. Snow has sung. We are proving whether we are worthy to go back into the inner family circle of our heavenly home, whether we can mingle with our Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities to come.
Jesus gave us the key to this inner family circle when he said:
"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3)
To the grieving Martha, Jesus had earlier said:
"I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
"And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." (John 11:25-26)
ETERNAL PROGRESSION
When the Lord said to the multitude on the Mount: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48) he was, it seems to me, not merely exhorting to righteousness, he was announcing a great principle. It would have been commanding us to do the impossible, and neither God nor the Christ ever does that, to require that we be as perfect here on earth as our Heavenly Father is in Heaven. But this commandment lays down the principle of eternal progression,—the principle that tells us there is no end to our progress, to our achievement, our righteousness, if we will but keep God's commandments, the principle that tells us that knowledge is infinite in its scope and in its power, and that in its fullness it may through the eternities become ours.
The full import of this principle of eternal progression is expressed in the formula which is attributed to President Snow: "As man now is, God once was; as God now is, man may become."
And this same principle so formulated finds confirmation in the declaration of the Savior:
"I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things." (John 8:28)
After he had healed the man with a thirty years' infirmity at the Pool of Bethesda, at the Feast of Pentecost, Jesus discoursing to the people, said:
"The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.
"For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel." (John 5:19-20)
OUR FAMILY DESTINY
We come now to our earthly family unit and its place in the universes of God's creations. Here we see there is another purpose for our existence on earth besides so living that we shall go back into the presence of God, to live with him, to take our place at the inner home fireside of the celestial family of our Father. We can now see that just as each mortal family here may be the parent of other mortal families, so God's celestial family is the parent of other celestial families. Each family unit here, that is created by and under the authority of the priesthood in the House of the Lord, is potentially another celestial family, another Heavenly Home, like to the one of which we are members,—a family unit that may ultimately do for other intelligences what God did for ours, even to the full eternal plan, for the Great Design is God's perfect plan.
But such a destiny for the family unit is predicated upon the observance of very definite laws. The Prophet Joseph explained certain of them in this way:
"Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory....
"In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; and in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of priesthood, (meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage;) and if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom: he cannot have an increase."—History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 391. (Joseph Smith's Teachings, p. 104)
Thus every earthly family unit, that is properly begun by a marriage in a House of the Lord performed by one having authority thereto has within its reach this infinite opportunity of eventually becoming creators after eternities of schooling and preparation; they have the infinite opportunity of heading another celestial family, which means the power and opportunity of creating worlds and peopling them. This is the supreme work, the very highest glory of which God has told us. Even its appreciative contemplation is almost beyond our finite reach.
The Psalmist sang: "I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High." (Ps. 82:6)
EMBODYING OTHER SPIRITS
But there is a third realm of duty and responsibility, which is also an opportunity, that belongs to every earthly family unit so created, and that is the providing of bodies for other spirits—God's children—who are waiting to come to this earth to live out their period of probation. This is not only a necessary, but an indispensable part of the Great Design; and its carrying out involves both temporal and spiritual considerations.
THE FACTOR OF HEREDITY
I shall not attempt to discuss the relationship that exists between biological man and spiritual man, but I will say it seems to be most intimate. Among many factors, this relationship involves the whole question of heredity about which so much is written and apparently so little really understood. This much may however be said,—a healthy body plus a healthy mind is the very best nursery for a healthy spirit. And this further may be said, that a healthy body is the best guarantee of a healthy mind, provided always that the environment, the home life, is likewise healthy. So the fully developed human being, has a healthy body, a healthy mind, a healthy environment.
Barring infrequent exceptions,—healthy bodies and healthy minds, beget healthy bodies and healthy minds. Apparently the law of heredity does sometimes upset this, but only occasionally. Such an eventuality is in our present knowledge beyond our control; but who shall say it shall always be so, that never shall human knowledge triumph over or learn to avoid this law? No wise man will venture an assertion that this shall never be.
But the element of environment is always, as to its healthfulness, almost wholly within the control of the family unit, because a healthy home life is just as attainable—perhaps more so—in a cabin as it is in a mansion.
Now we Latter-day Saints have had given to us all the rules, laws, and commandments necessary to enable us to fulfill the highest requirements in providing healthy bodies for the spirits still waiting in the spirit world to take on their second or probationary estate. The actions of our ancestors have put some restrictions upon this through the operation of heredity, but if we live chastely and righteously, heredity will intervene detrimentally less and less frequently.
THE FAMILY'S THREE GREAT FUNCTIONS
Thus the Latter-day Saint family, in a Latter-day Saint home, has three great functions to perform.
First,—it must bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came,—a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities.
Second,—it must so carry out its duties, rights, and functions as to enable it, in turn, to found a celestial home that shall in some eternity hereafter be equal in power, opportunity, and dignity with the celestial home from which we came and to which we shall return.
Third,—it must so live its life as to provide for the spirits yet waiting to come to this earth for their fleshly tabernacles, both bodies and minds that shall be healthy, for the spirits coming through them are the choice spirits, which have earned the right by their lives in their first estate, to come for their second estate, to the righteous homes—to the families of greatest worth, promise, and opportunity; and this family must provide for this spirit which it invites to come to its hearthstone, an environment that shall meet the strictest requirements of righteousness.
And certainly in one view this last may be considered the highest responsibility of any of the three. For our return to the inner circles of our celestial home and our building our own celestial home, affect most directly ourselves, we "twain who have been made one flesh"; but what body we provide for the spirit we invite to come to us, has intimately to do with whether that spirit returns to the inner circle of its celestial home, and whether it shall build its own celestial home,—the two great ends of our probationary and second estate.
God will not hold guiltless parents who fail to do the most they have power to do, to meet these responsibilities, because God will give us the power to do all we should or need do, if we shall live as he has told us to live. Not often will a wayward spirit come to those of us who have from the beginning done all we should do.
Thus the righteous life is not prescribed by a whimsical or capricious Deity. The prescriptions for such a life have their source deep in the secrets of eternity. They lead men to the highest degrees of glory, to the loftiest pinnacle of celestial achievement.
Latter-day Saints know that these matters are not idle theories, concocted over the ages in the minds of men; they know that these are the basic facts of existence; all doubt and unbelief about it have been thrust out from their minds and souls. One can stand only in awful and reverent silence at the grandness and glory of this vision of our promised destiny, predicated upon the building of a true home.
THE PERFECT EARTH HOME
Can any young couple, wedded as man and wife, be so dead to progress and to high adventure, that they are not caught up in their spirit to reach out for this prize, these immortal treasures that lie waiting for the righteous, treasures that endure forever and forever.
What must this earthly home of divine destiny be, to become the celestial family of infinity?
True love must be there, true love that blesses and hallows every thought and act. Mere sex passion will not do; that soon burns out and leaves only ashes to be tossed about by the wind. The divorce court, not the divine destiny of a celestial family, waits at the end of that short road.
There must be chastity in this home. An unchaste wife tears out the very heart of home. "A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones," says the Proverb. (Prov. 12:4) The unchaste mother marks her offspring with disgrace. An unchaste father brings to the home a canker that consumes it and leaves only dross behind.
There must be respect in this home, and honor, Patience in abundance and a full measure of charity must be found there. Discord must not find therein a resting place and distrust must not cross the threshold. Loyalty in thought and word and deed must there abide; disloyalty puts out the sacred fire of family life. Therein must be kindliness; loving trust must throw its stalwart arms about them. High hope must lodge there; despair must be driven from the door. Children must have a welcome; motherhood and fatherhood bring the highest happiness and are our loftiest destiny. Modesty must dwell always in the bosoms of the daughters, and respect for womanhood must fill the hearts of the sons. God's Word of Wisdom must be kept, then health shall fill the air as a sacred incense. Sloth must not creep over the door sill; industry and thrift must rule there in undisputed sway. Faith must cover the home as a kindly light; unbelief must be given no shelter. Righteousness must clothe them as a mantle; their feet must go always along the path of duty. Prayer shall ascend to our Heavenly Father as from a holy altar; God's peace and blessing will hedge them about against Evil. Obedience to God's commandments must guide and cheer them; Satan must be shut out from their presence. Wisdom shall stand guard always at the threshold; so shall their outgoings be along paths of eternal progress, and their incomings laden with righteousness. Honesty must be treasured as a jewel; truth must be worn as a crown. They must banish worldly pride from their fireside; vanity must be trodden under foot. They must cast out selfishness through the door, nor let greed and envy ever enter. The poor must not cry out to them in vain; a hard heart is the herald of destruction. The virtuous and lovely must be delved for; things of good report and praiseworthy must be sought out. Honor and respect must be given to the Holy Priesthood of God; no celestial home can be built in any other presence.
THE FAMILY GLORY
Then shall the mortal home here lead us back to the celestial home from which we came. Then shall the family here live and grow into a celestial family there. Then shall the spirits we bring here, themselves go back to their celestial home there, themselves build their own celestial home, themselves bring other noble spirits to mortal homes to work out their destiny. Then shall salvation wait upon us, and exaltation beckon us on. Thus we shall come to the ultimate glory.
All this shall come to those who, obedient to God's law, shall be united together in the House of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God. All this can come to them through no other cause.
TO YOUTH
You youth of the Church, bow not your necks in defiance, nor stiffen your backs in rebellion. Follow the counsel of your parents; therein is great wisdom. Resolve that the high destiny which God Himself offers you, shall, God willing and helping you,—as He will—be yours.
The father must be the head of the house; but the Mother is the queen of the home.
THE PART OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Need I point out to you Relief Society sisters, where your high duty lies in all this,—your duty not only but your lofty destiny as well? We fathers cannot do this, we are not so framed; we can only help; the great work is yours, yours by your very natures, which means by divine design and appointment. You shall fail in your mission if you do not do it, and the world will be lost. God give you strength in the full measure of your need, that man may earn his full reward; that our homes shall be so built here that they shall be bathed always in the saving sunshine of God's blessings; that so built here, these homes of ours shall grow and ripen into celestial homes of eternity; that thus we shall have a part in and not be cast out from, the glorious fruition of God's plans and purposes which cannot be put aside or brought to naught.

The Most Important Aspect of Christmas Elder Stephen L Richards Member of the Council of the Twelve
MANY years ago I was privileged to be present at the dedication of the Hawaiian Temple at beautiful Laie. The services were held daily for several days in the Celestial Room. On one occasion there was carried into the services an old Hawaiian woman. She was too feeble to walk, and she was placed by two men in a comfortable chair very near to where I sat. I observed her carefully. She was very old. Her pallid, wrinkled skin hung loosely on the bones of her face and hands. She was exceedingly thin and wasted. I discovered that she was blind. She lay in the chair, perfectly still and seemed almost lifeless. She showed no signs of interest in any of the proceedings until the president of the Hawaiian Mission began to speak in her native tongue. It was the practice to have the proceedings interpreted in substance for the benefit of those who could not understand English. I was not familiar with the language of the interpreter but I gathered that he was explaining the purpose of the Temple and its work, setting forth the beautiful blessings of the endowment ceremony, the vicarious work for dead ancestors and the enduring relationships created under the power of the holy Priesthood. I watched the effect of these explanations on the dear old lady who sat beside me. She seemed, as if by some strange power, to come to life. A light shone in her poor, blind eyes. Her countenance brightened. A smile was on her lips. She raised her frail body in the chair and sat alert and attentive. I think I have never seen such a quick and complete transformation in a human personality and I think, too, I have never witnessed a more impressive and soulful appreciation of Gospel principle than I did on that occasion. I have never forgotten the circumstance and whenever a time comes for the expression of deep-seated gratitude and true thanksgiving, as it does this Christmas season, I think back on the old lady in the Temple. If only the understanding, the appreciation and the vision of all men could be opened and stimulated as hers was, what a different world we should have!
BY every measurement the most important aspect of Christmas is the coming of the Christ and His glorious Gospel, the true way of life. It seems very unfortunate that the festivities of the holiday season have so often crowded the central theme out of the popular mind. Santa Claus, gifts and happiness were originally intended to symbolize the Christ, the Savior of the world, the supreme gift of the Father to His children, the benefactions coming from the Master, and the holy joy of the race in contemplation of these blessings. But the symbols, with many, have become the verities and Christmas has lost its meaning. It is sad that it is so, particularly at a time when sincere appreciation of the true significance of the day would mean so much to a grief-torn world.
Much as I could hope that it might be otherwise, I shall not be surprised to learn that on the natal day of our Lord and Savior, cities and villages and homes will be bombed, ships will be sunk, and war, with all its devastation and horror, will be prosecuted with its usual ferocity, hatred and malice. How can it be so? How can men so ignore the Author of mercy, kindness, brotherly love and all the finer virtues with which the race has been endowed? I am not sure that I can answer that question to the satisfaction of many people, but I am certain that there are vital and important considerations to which attention must be given before an adequate answer is found.
PERHAPS the foremost need of the world today is the recognition of the Lordship of Jesus, the Christ. When He is accepted for what He said He was, men will not marvel at the miracle of His life nor will they ignore the precepts of His law. The attributes of Jesus are the standards of perfection in human living. Kindliness, sympathy, tolerance, mercy, forbearance, charity in judgment, loyalty, justice, integrity and abiding love are Christian virtues that lie at the foundation of the idealism of the race. These and the incomparable concepts of the good neighbor—doing unto others as you would be done by—and the abundant life, losing one's life in the service of others that he may save it—are the soundest and truest philosophies in the society of man and the way to happiness.
Such inestimable contributions to the human family, coming from the life and works of the Master, however great and beautiful, are, in this recognition of which I speak, to be considered but attributes and derivatives of the outstanding things which really command our veneration and our worship. Unfortunately for the world, too many Christian men have knelt at the shrine of the attributes and denied the authority and sovereignty of the King. As a man endowed with great and superior wisdom and far-reaching insight into the lives and characters of men, He might have given to the world His transcendent philosophies and His incomparable formula for living, but as a man, He could not have power over death, He could not rise from the grave, He could not make resurrection possible for the whole human race. It took a God to do that. It is this recognition of Christ as God which is indispensable to true Christianity. It is not the indifferent who do not care to take the time and trouble to bother about religion; it is not the humanists who may have a reverent admiration for Jesus as the Great Teacher of all time but deny His divinity; it is not the formalists who stress the form and pageantry in religion, who are effectively advancing the cause of Christianity in the earth, Rather it is those, very often humble folk, who accept literally and unequivocally the fundamental Christian doctrines, who have received in their hearts the testimony of Jesus, who accept the philosophy of faith, who believe that the Kingdom of Christ has been established in the world and that His Kingdom shall ultimately triumph over all other kingdoms and opposing forces and that Christ, a deified, personal Being is the Head of the Kingdom and will hereafter return to the earth to resume personal supervision thereof—it is these people of genuine faith upon whom the world must rely for the promotion and establishment of the brotherhood of man in the Kingdom of God.
SOMETHING else besides this recognition of the Lordship of Christ is also essential. That something is a knowledge of the true interpretation of the Gospel of the Savior. This true interpretation is also a new interpretation for the great preponderance of the inhabitants of the earth because, unfortunately, they have not become acquainted with it. This new interpretation is a product of latter-day revelation and constitutes a complete restoration in its fullness of the Gospel of the Redeemer. I cannot but think that if men came to know the import and vitality of this new interpretation their appreciation of the Christian faith would be greatly enhanced.
This new interpretation sets forth the dominance of intelligence. I believe I am correct in the assertion that in all Christian literature prior to the advent of Joseph Smith there were to be found no such concepts of the origin, function and place of intelligence in the universe as come from our modern scripture. Here are some excerpts: —
"Intelligence or the light of truth was not created or made, neither indeed can be."
"The glory of God is intelligence or in other words light and truth."
"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain to in this life it will rise with us in the resurrection."
These and other scripture convince us that intelligence is the chief investiture of man. Indeed it is man, for it is that part of his constituency that persists, that is eternal. This knowing, conceiving, illuminating principle of existence lies at the base of all our powers and potentialities. This conception of intelligence justifies the eternal quest for knowledge and it does more. It explains the necessity of acquiring knowledge for it makes knowledge essential to progression and progression in the last analysis is salvation. It places a terrific penalty on ignorance. It lays down a new and very definite gospel doctrine that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance."
The world in general and the modern world in particular, with its science, scholasticism and technology has been prone to scorn and slur religion and the church for an alleged backwardness and retardation in intellectual processes and in the acquisition of knowledge. Whatever justification there may have been in times past for such an imputation, this new interpretation of the Gospel is a complete refutation of such disparaging allegations and inferences of the secular world. The Gospel of Christ offers a stimulus and a reward in the pursuit of knowledge and the development of intelligence that transcend in their appeal and promise anything that the students and philosophers have ever evolved. But the knowledge and intelligence that it rewards must be true. "Light and truth" are the words of the revelation. It places no premium upon the acquisition of falsehood and error. It distinguishes very clearly between sophistication and true intelligence. In all the learning of the world there is nothing of higher import for the mind of man to comprehend than the eternal principles and truths that pertain to exaltation in the presence of God and there is no higher order of intelligence than that which enables man to perceive these glorious truths.
In this new interpretation there is a unique and distinctive conception of the family of God. God, the Master Intelligence, is the Creator and veritable Father of His children, the lesser but potentially divine intelligences who make up His family and populate His Kingdom. As a kindly parent, He desires and designs the eternal welfare and happiness of His offspring. In modern revelation His purpose is clarified as never before in recorded scripture. It is the glory of God to "bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" and "men are that they might have joy." These are the sublime declarations revealed in latter-days, forever banishing all doubt and uncertain speculation as to the place and purpose of man in the universe.
"In what does the joy of man consist? There are two things, first, an eternal progression in intelligence, knowledge and power, that leads to perfection, even as Christ is perfect; and second, companionship with God in His presence and in the presence of His Son."
This pronouncement of the purpose of our being, together with additional revelations, brings a new concept of heaven. By the perfection of our lives we achieve joy and come into the presence of God. Where is He? He is in His own Kingdom. Are there other kingdoms? Yes. And in that revealed knowledge we learn the truths about heaven. There are other kingdoms referred to but not fully explained by St. Paul and also indicated in "the many mansions of my Father's house" spoken of by the Savior. These scriptures have been fully amplified by the new interpretation. Kingdoms of eternity have been defined. Laws that govern the various kingdoms have been set forth and entrance requirements stipulated. There are preferential places and conditions in the hereafter, as there are here. The highest and most desirable is the Celestial Kingdom of our Father. In that Kingdom and only there do intelligences attain their highest state of perfection. Only there do we have assurance of the reunion of families and the perpetuation of family relationship and eternal increase. In that Kingdom man may ultimately become divine.
The scriptures give us to understand that through the general atonement of the Savior all mankind will be resurrected from the grave and come forth in a life hereafter, but we know that the atonement itself is not adequate to place us in the Celestial Kingdom, in which respect we distinguish between the general salvation of the human family brought about by the Redeemer of the world and the exaltation of the individual accomplished by his own works and faithfulness through the mediation of Christ.
Through the revealed justice of God the sublime blessings of the Celestial Kingdom are extended, not only to all the living, but to the dead as well. It is not designed that the accident of death shall circumscribe the free agency of man to choose and attain his ultimate destiny. Since, however, it is in the plan that certain ceremonies and ordinances which are requisite for entrance into the highest kingdom shall be performed in mortality, merciful provision has been made whereby the living may vicariously perform these ordinances for the dead. I think of all Christian service, vicarious work for the dead is the most Christ-like. It often entails great sacrifice. The beneficiary is not here, even to give thanks. It is true benevolence.
I SET down these phases of the new interpretation of the Gospel of Christ because I regard them as indispensable to a real appreciation of the love and benevolence of our Savior. They are but a few of the inestimable contributions coming from the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The items I have mentioned may furnish some part of the answer to the momentous question: Why has Christianity failed to more effectively influence the conduct of men and nations? If the true Gospel has not been understood, could it reasonably be expected to be very potent?
I like to think of humanity as naturally good, not bad. We know that the spirit of God strives with man for his uplift and advancement. There is justification for merciful judgment on humanity. Our Father will not hold him accountable to the law who does not know the law. Deep in the hearts of the true disciples of Christ is the enduring conviction that when mankind reaches a true conception of the beautiful, vital, saving principles of the Gospel of Christ there will be eager acceptance on the part of many of our Father's children who are now in darkness.
So, this Christmas time, dark and gloomy as the picture of the world appears, is not an occasion for despair and defeatism. Christ is not dead, although He has been mocked in many lands. His doctrines are not impotent, much as they have been ignored. While Christian hearts must ever grieve for human sufferings, yet they can rejoice in a supreme faith that out of all the will of God will prevail and that truth and righteousness will triumph.
What a benediction it is that the body of the Church of Christ set up to proclaim the glad tidings of great joy throughout the earth and to foster peace and good will among men and lay the foundations for the Kingdom of God should be established in the safest and most protected spot in the most secure and best governed nation in all the wide world. What a depth of gratitude this realization should stir within the heart of every true Latter-day Saint, not so much for mere personal safety as for extended and glorious opportunity from such a point of vantage to spread the Gospel of peace and love among the children of men. In such kindly service only may we find adequate expression for the birth, the life and works of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior.
How To Glorify Christmas Gifts Lucile Wallace Wolf
TO RECEIVE a gift nicely wrapped is a compliment. It would take a large book to show all the lovely packages that folks make at Christmas. You can make yours more interesting if you get acquainted with a few basic tricks in handling materials, and there is practically no limit to the materials you can use in making up a package to suit the individual and to add personality to your gift.
Rules for Simple Box Wrapping
To wrap a box of any size with plain, transparent cellophane or decorated paper, or just plain tissue, make sure your sheet of material is large enough to go around the box with an overlap for sealing, and wide enough to cover the ends. When the sheet is cut, place box upside down in the center of the sheet, fold over ends and seal the seam on the bottom with "Scotch Tape." Fold in the ends smoothly.
An Easy Way to Tie Ribbon Bows
In tying a cellophane or paper ribbon bow for your gift package, first tie the ribbon around the package in any way that pleases your particular fancy, leaving two loose ends at the knot. To make the bow, form a loop of ribbon, keeping right side up, and pinch together at the point where the knot would come. For the second loop, bring the ribbon around in the opposite direction and pinch again (you can make as many loops as desired to form a rosette), then just place the bow on the package at the knot and tie it securely with the two loose ends. This can then be cut, left in the uncut loops, or cut and curled with a scissor edge, pulling from the knot and toward the end of the material or ribbon.
There Is A Knack to Making "Glassips" Pompoms
Hold the "Glassips" in one hand with the ends even and wind cotton-covered wire twice around the center. Then pull hard on the wire, fasten with a twist, and knot. The tightening wire spreads the "Glassips" in a pompom effect. Cut off the ends of the wire, leaving long enough ends to attach to a package. These are very effective.
One very interesting way to individualize a package is to use letters and numbers for decorating with monograms, names and dates. These can be purchased for 10 cents a package and are very interesting.
If you do not use a box, wrap your article, after it is carefully folded, just as you wrap a box. In the illustration of a package not in a box, a set of seven tea towels was wrapped with plain tissue paper, tied with ribbon, and decorated with a sprig of sagebrush. So many things can be used as decorations, such as a sprig of juniper, Oregon grapes, Rose apples, holly, pine cones, or little handmade decorations that you have a special knack for making. These always add charm and interest. Use care in color combinations.
Be careful, and you will be repaid for the effort. (Merry Christmas and beautiful packages! ) ~ 2 Steps in Simple Box Wrapping Attractive "Glassips" pompoms can be Charm is added to the gift of a bottle made by following the steps illustrated of perfume or other similarly-shaped are above. Article when wrapped as illustrated above. The above steps are followed in making Packages are interesting when decorative bows. Ed with monograms, names and dates. Variety in decorative bows is accomplished by leaving loops uncut, by cutting loops, or by cutting and curling with scissor edge. Christmas Giving Dorothy L. Watkiss Society Editor, Deseret News ¢6¢ 7 T is not so much in the gifts | we give, as it is in the grace of giving." This thought seemed to be the predominant sentiment of the four people whose expressed views on Christmas giving furnished the material for this article. President Grant, whose boundless generosity is one of his outstanding characteristics, gives happiness and joy to many hundreds of people each Christmas, with his lavish distribution of books of lasting worth. He considers a good book the ideal gift for people of all ages, and each Christmas every member of his family and many of his innumerable friends are remembered with a carefully-selected book. President Grant is a firm believer in the sentiment expressed in the verse of Horace G. Whitney's poem: "What though the price be paltry and small, What though the cover be old and thin, What though there be no cover at all, If worth and merit are written therein." He feels that it is much more desirable to remember a greater number of people with an inexpensive edition of a good book than to remember just a select few with a more costly volume. While he has undoubtedly given away well over a hundred thousand books, he has also brought lasting joy to many of his friends by his generous distribution of beautiful pictures. The true spirit of giving is manifest in his thoughtfulness in selecting gifts which incidentally give needed help to those from whom the gifts are purchased and at the same time bring happiness to those to whom they are presented, thereby bestowing dual benefits. President Grant is an ardent believer in the old maxim, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and his genuine joy in bestowing gifts to his relatives and countless friends each Christmas proves that he considers it a great privilege to bring happiness to so many people. The Heber J. Grant Library in Provo contains copies of the many books he has so generously distributed. On one occasion he bought the copyright of a splendid book, "The Power of Truth," written by William George Jordan. In this widespread distribution of worthwhile literature is expressed his great desire to share, with as many people as possible, the beautiful, stimulating and commendable thoughts and sentiments which he himself treasures so highly. His love of giving is not confined to his relatives and intimate friends, but needy persons of all classes come within his circle of beneficences, particularly at Christmas time. EMPHASIZING the thought that the cost of a gift was of secondary importance, Sister Annie Wells Cannon expressed the opinion that it was the good thoughts and wishes that accompanied the gift that really mattered. Like President Grant, she — felt that it was much more desirable to remember a greater number of people with relatively inexpensive gifts, than to give to a select few something more costly. Also endorsing President Grant's views, CHRISTMAS GIVING Sister Cannon feels that nothing is more lovely in the way of a gift than a book, and especially so for children. Nowadays, such a diversified assortment of books on innumerable subjects is available for the mature mind, and such a variety of children's books, all beautifully illustrated, that they undoubtedly solve the constantly recurring gift problem for many people. The wrapping of a gift is quite an important factor to Sister Cannon, and she takes great pride and joy in achieving this as artistically as possible. This definitely conveys an added gesture of esteem to those receiving remembrances. She also mentioned that since the days when the Wise Men brought their gifts to Jesus Christ in Bethlehem, this spirit of giving at Christmas has been a practical gesture of love and remembrance. In the words of Edmund Vance Cooke, this thought is also expressed: "It is not the weight of jewel or plate, Or the fondle of silk or fur, 'Tis the spirit in which the gift is rich, As the gifts of the Wise Ones were, And we are not told whose gift was gold, Or whose was the gift of myrrh." The main object of a gift is to bring happiness and enjoyment, and at this particular season of the year children should be the first to be remembered. With what supreme joy are we rewarded as we watch their amazed delight and thrilling gladness at the unexpected gifts. Sister Cannon said that she did not like the idea of inquiring of a person what they would like to have for a gift, as she felt the element of surprise was of major importance in the full enjoyment of the gift. Gifts for the home, when appro- 819 priate, are also very desirable, as they invariably bring pleasure to all who share them. These gifts of the lasting kind are a constant reminder of the love and thoughtfulness of the giver. SOME helpful suggestions were also contributed by Sister Donna Durrant Sorensen on this allimportant subject. She laid great stress on gifts of the luxury type, feeling that it was an excellent idea to select gifts that you yourself would be happy to receive. This rule is particularly good to follow when purchasing gifts for one's contemporaries. For example, a small quantity of an exceptionally pleasing perfume would be more acceptable than a larger quantity of an inferior quality. Likewise, a small piece of sterling silver or fine linen would be mote likely to bring lasting joy than larger gifts of more doubtful value. Sister Sorensen feels that the way of wrapping gifts is a splendid manner of expressing one's artistic abilities, and that the same principles of art that prevail in decorative schemes ate also applicable here. The wrapping should be in keeping with the gift and should enhance appreciation of it, but should not be too elaborate. For example, if the paper selected is particularly ornate, the material used for tying should be more conservative. Gifts at this time of the year may be either personal or for the home, depending entirely upon the circumstances of the recipient. For instance, personal gifts are in most cases more appropriate for children and older people, or for those who travel extensively, while gifts for the home make a more direct appeal to 820 those in the process of establishing a home, or actively maintaining one. Gifts of a lasting nature are usually more appreciated by this group and thus bring pleasure not only to the one receiving the gift but to the entire household. THE younger viewpoint, as expressed by Miss Elizabeth Hill, a student at the Brigham Young University and daughter of Dr. And Mrs. George R. Hill, finds the selecting of Christmas gifts a fascinating diversion. She also feels that the luxury type of gift—something that one would hesitate to purchase for oneself for practical reasons, but would be very thrilled and happy to possess—is eminently desirable and invariably receives greater appreciation. Miss Hill mentioned that as so many people are making a hobby of collecting certain articles, a contribution to this particular collection is sure to be much appreciated. The personal touch expressed in monogramming gifts is gteatly favored by Miss Hill, as she feels that the personalizing of gifts makes a special appeal to her college friends. For each member of her family, she always encloses a Christmas letter containing a poem of her own composition. This isa charming gesture RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1940 for those poetically inclined. She, too, feels that an attractively wrapped gift adds much to the pleasure of the receiver, and she takes particular pains in doing this wrapping in a unique and artistic manner. For children, particularly the younger ones, she feels that an assortment of smaller gifts is definitely more desirable than one larger one, as most children desire variety and are greatly thrilled by quantity. For those whom it is impossible to remember with a gift, Miss Hill feels that Christmas cards are a delightful medium of conveying one's good wishes and thoughts. As there is a decided trend at this time toward arts and crafts and a great revival of handwork of all types, it is a splendid idea for those who have leisure time to make their Christmas gifts themselves. If one is talented along a particular line, such as needlework of any kind, leather or metal work, painting or sketching, pleasing and acceptable gifts of practical value can be made. And nothing is more complimentary than a handmade gift. For those who enjoy cooking, homemade candy or cakes or other novel delicacies make excellent Christmas gifts. "At Christmas tide the open hand Scatters its bounty o'er sea and Jand." Dreams Are For Christmas Beatrice Rordame Parsons JON WAYNE came into the J kitchen, a frown hovering between his dark brows. He didn't like the buzz and excitement of the last few days. Everybody in the house was upset. His wife seemed a stranger, distraught, impatient, forever rushing about with great bundies in her arms. The children had been unusually trying. At this moment, Deck was speaking in a loud, excited tone. "Tomorrow! Christmas!" Deck was thirteen, a lanky kid with a stub nose and freckles. His hands and feet were too big, and as he took his seat at the breakfast table, his shoes made dark scars against the newly-waxed linoleum. It seemed to Jon that Deck's voice was louder than usual. "Thank goodness today's the last day of school. Hope Ole Martin doesn't give us an English assignment for the Christmas holidays. I've got a lot o' things to do." His father frowned. A lot of things! He could imagine. Deck always had a lot of things to do—so many things that he could not chop a little kindling or take out the ashes on ash day. Jon hated to admit it, even to himself, but his son was a trifler. His frown darkened as he thought of it, then disappeared a little as Madge came into the kitchen. "Hi, Maggie," cried Deck, and the smile that had decorated Madge's pretty face disappeared, and she appealed to her mother. "Make him quit saying that. He knows I hate it!" She touched her ~ newly-done hair with cool little fingers and tried to look aloof and grown up. Jon hid a smile behind his morning paper. Madge was eighteen, and still his baby. He couldn't imagine her grown up. But eying her from behind the paper, he had to admit that he didn't like what he saw— too much lipstick, too many curls, a petulant, impatient look about her small, red mouth. Suddenly, Jon dropped his paper and stared at his children. What had happened to them? Where were the smiling, happy babies he had once known, the babies who had climbed on his knees and begged for candy with kisses? He wondered if he hadn't dreamed it. These children weren't the same. They were hard, selfish little people, disrespectful to each other, and—he had to admit it—to their elders. Even as he thought, Madge leaned across the table and poured herself a glass of milk, entirely ignoring her father's glass. Jon's voice was crisp, disapproving. "In my day, Madge, children were taught to help their parents first. It was very tude of you...." He stopped. Madge wasn't listening. She had turned to her mother and was speaking eagerly. "Don't forget my Christmas present." She'd been harping on that same subject for weeks. She wanted a party frock, a pink one. She reiterated the fact loudly: "Pink, Mother!" Her mother, busy at the stove, nodded a little absent-mindedly, and said: "I must remember cranberries 822 and yams. The turkey is ready in the refrigerator, and.. Deck interrupted rudely. "T get that bike, remember. You said I could have it." He turned to Madge, and added: "I get my bike even if you don't get that silly dress." Like a small child, Madge put out her tongue. Deck guffawed rudely. Jon spoke indignantly. "In my day, Deck, children didn't interrupt their mother. And they didn't put out their tongues, Madge, when they were young ladies." His last words were drowned out by the spattering of the eggs, as Mrs. Wayne lifted them from the frying pan onto the hot platter. Jon found himself wondering, impatiently, if either of his offspring would have paid any attention, anyway. Eleanor sat down and poured herself a glass of milk, reaching across Deck's plate for the pitcher. Jon was loudly indignant. "If Christmas is going to change this house into a. Eleanor smiled and put an egg and a crisp slice of bacon on his plate. "Christmas is exciting, isn't it, Jon?" she asked, and her eyes were shining. "Christmas is in the heart, Jon. That's what makes it so wonderful." He looked at her in astonishment. Was this what she called the Christmas Spirit—Madge and Deck squabbling all through breakfast, forgetting to pass the milk, growling at each other over their presents? Bah! If this were Christmas, he'd take the Fourth of July! Eleanor didn't pay any attention to his surprised look. She was speaking again, still smilingly, but there mas angel in it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1940 was a worried little frown on her forehead. "I think we can manage Madge's dress, Jon, and the bike. My permanent...." Jon knew she had been wanting a permanent for Christmas, and now she was giving it up so that the children.... He burst into hot words: "T don't think.... She patted his hand. "Everything's going to work out just right," she said eagerly, and looked at Madge. The girl's young eyes were shining. "Oh, Mother!" she cried. "I'm sure Ken will like it!' Jon listened, stupified. Not a word about being sorry that her mother couldn't have a new permanent; just her own selfish desire that Ken might like her! N spite of himself, looking at his daughter's lovely, flushed face, Jon had to admit that she was beautiful. She was exactly like her mother. He remembered their first Christmas together. Eleanor had worn a pink dress. She had looked like a ChristIt had been that dress that had given him the courage to ask her to marry him. He felt a curious little shock as he thought about Madge and Ken. Would Ken be wanting to marry Madge—Ken who didn't even have a job? Jon didn't quite approve of Ken. He was a tall young man with a rather loud voice and a pair of long legs that stuck out so that people tripped over them. He had just finished college, but he hadn't found anything to do, He didn't seem to worry about it. He lived at home, and often said: DREAMS ARE FOR CHRISTMAS "The Old Man is looking after me until I get what I want." That was kids nowadays—choosy, hanging on to their father's coat tails. What if Ken married Madge and came to live with them? The thought made him wince. Why, when he and Eleanor had married, he'd started the little jewelry business on Elm Street. He remembered how proud he was when he opened the door and showed: Eleanor the scanty store of watches, rings and diamonds that went to make up his stock. He had said with all the eagerness, the ambition of a young business man: "You'll see, darling, we're going to be wealthy. Someday I'm going to give you a diamond as big as a pea." He had kissed the slim hand with the quarter-carat diamond on the fourth finger, and had resolved, then and there, that Eleanor Wayne should wear the finest jewelry in all Millville.. But that had been a dream. Of course, they had lived. He had managed to keep the business through thick and thin, through Depression and Recovery. But they had never grown wealthy. Since the children came, there had been so many places to put the money. He'd done everything he could, but still his children weren't satisfied. Listen, for instance, to Deck! "Wish there was a real Santa— ole fellow to bring everything a guy wants...." Yes, that's all children thought of nowadays—getting everything they wanted. Jon got quite a jolt to hear Deck add: "But Christmas is pretty swell most any way you look at it. I'm 823 going to trim the tree as soon as | get back...." Madge's eyes were bright. "Right before dinner, Deck? 'Then I can help before Ken gets here." Jon felt as though his eardrums had played him false. Could it really be that those were his children speaking to each other? A loud tooting of an automobile horn blasted through the clear, frosty air of the garden into the kitchen. Madge jumped to her feet, almost upsetting her chair. Her face was as bright as a Christmas candle, and her arms were eager as they slipped into her coat. She tossed a kiss to her mother and one to Jon, and her voice was filled with excitement. "Well, darling, be sure to bring home the bacon tonight!" Then she was gone, her lithe, slender figure flying out of the door and down the snowy, garden path. She smiled as she climbed in at Ken's side, and Jon watched the car disappear with a queer expression in his gray eyes. "Bring home the bacon!" That's what she had said. There had been nothing like: "I love you, Daddy," or "Good luck!" It was just "bring home the bacon!" He turned the phrase over in his mind. Was that really the way Madge thought of him, the man who worked to eam the money to buy pink frocks for Ken to admire? He almost groaned. There was the younger generation for you — callous, selfish, parasiticall! Great guns, didn't Madge realize that he was her father—not just a machine for turning out dollars! Why hadn't her mother made the girl understand? 824 He looked at Eleanor. Her pretty face was flushed and rosy. She was making a list of groceries, biting the end of her pencil as she thought. Jon watched the list grow and mentally contemplated the bill. Eleanor was being ridiculous. Surely, no family of four needed all the things that were going on that paper. He watched her smile and write: "Oranges." "Well," he thought, "she'll be worried enough when the bill comes in at the end of the month. Then she'll be sorry." But he had a strange thought. Somehow Eleanor seemed to enjoy all this—the scheming, the going without. She looked up at him now, and her eyes were glistening with unshed tears. "I'm making up a basket for Mrs. Hazelton, and one for poor, old Mr. Hansen. I do hope you don't mind, Jon." Jon felt a queer, breathless pain in his heart as he looked at her. Somehow he felt a little jealous. Yes, Eleanor did get a great deal of pleasure out of her scheming and cutting corners. Giving, she had always said, was the best part of Christmas. He felt a great surge of happiness and leaned across the table to touch her hand. But his moment was spoiled. Deck spoke impatiently. "Dad, I've been 'talking to you for half an hour. I need a dollar." Jon felt almost angry. He glanced out of the window at the queer, jagged little holes Madge's galoshes had made down the garden walk, and said loudly: "Didn't I ask you to clean the walks?" Deck's grin was sheepish. "I forgot...." He looked slightly contrite, and finished with a rush: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1940 "I’ll do 'em after I come home." He looked out of the window and saw a group of boys waiting for him. He snatched his jacket from the back of his chair, where he had had it handy, and rushed away. But he came back to ask: "Do I get that dollar, Dad. I've got t' have it to buy your present." Jon watched him rush down the walk waving the dollar at the eager boys, and again he felt a grave bit of wonder rushing over him. That was the way with children nowadays —taking everything, giving nothing. His eyes sought the great piles of snow against the garage doors, and he groaned, remembering he would have to shovel them away before he could get out the car. He was almost through when Eleanor came out, a coat hanging loosely over her neat, brown hair, her face still glowing as though someone had lighted candles behind it. "Be sure to remember the mistletoe, Jon," she said. "It will seem more like Christmas with mistletoe." Mistletoe! Jon felt his heart stir. He had kissed her first under a tiny sprig of mistletoe that had hung in her father's home. He could remember, even now, the sweetness of her cool, eager lips. He bent his head as though to feel that same sweet eagerness, but she kissed him absentmindedly, and he let her go with a sigh. Somehow they seemed so far apart. Somehow the children had formed a wedge between them. He had wanted to talk to Eleanor about the children. He had wanted to ask her if there wasn't something they could do to make them more human, DREAMS ARE FOR CHRISTMAS more understanding. But she was so excited about the mistletoe that he couldn't talk to her now. He got into the car and raised a gloved hand in a little wave. Then he glided through the snow of the driveway out into the street. THE store seemed unusually dusty and unattractive as he opened the door. His stock was so small. Everything had been picked over. Just a few cheap watches were left, a gold ring or two, and that two-carat diamond he had been idiotic enough to buy because it had seemed such a bargain. He brought the diamond from the safe and put it on a velvet cushion. It was so lovely, so clear, so sparkling, so bright. All at once he had an idea. It was like the star that had shone over Bethlehem. It should shine alone in his window this day. It might bring him luck. Something nice might happen because of that shining star. He felt almost cheerful as he dusted and put the store to rights. Now he was ready for that unexpected customer. But it was old Mrs. Carter who opened the door. She had come, for the hundredth time, to look at that cheap wrist watch for her grandson, Hal Carter. Jon smiled his disapproval. There, if anywhere, was an utterly selfish, thoughtless boy. Mrs. Carter couldn't really afford the watch, even though it was cheap. But she was holding it tenderly, almost reverently, in her worn, old hand. "Hal would love it," she said wistfully. Jon hadn't meant to, but he said: "You're lucky, Mrs. Carter. I'm 825 cutting the price on everything twenty-five percent today, as a Christmas cleanup. That'll make the watch just three dollars." Twenty-five percent! He thought, sardonically. He hoped Mrs. Carter wouldn't realize that for some ridiculous reason he had cut the price almost fifty percent. But Mrs. Carter wasn't thinking about percents. She was eagerly scratching together the dimes and pennies in her worn, old pocketbook. Tremblingly, she put them into his hand. "Hal has wanted a watch so long," she said, and her voice was a tiny bit shaky. "'All the other fellows have one...." "That's just it," interrupted Jon, "the kids nowadays take so much for granted." "Oh, I don't think so, Jon," said Mrs. Carter gently. Somehow, she reminded him of Eleanor as she said: "Tt's only that there is so much now- 'adays for children to want—so many nice things." Her old eyes grew thoughtful. "I always wanted a chatelaine watch when I was girl, but Father and Mother never seemed able to spare the money." She held out her hand and accepted the package almost anxiously. Then she tucked it into her purse, and said: "Merry Christmas, Jon, and thank you." Jon stared after her bent, old figure as she went up the street. So she had known about the fifty percent! He smiled a little, and thought: "Her father might have bought her a watch. It's such a little thing, and he was well-off." He turned back to the store, and added gruffly: "Bunk! I must be getting soft! Christmas isn't what it used to be!" His heart yearned suddenly for the 826 Christmases he had known when he was a child—the homemade candy, the popcorn balls, the tree that must be cut and brought in from the hills. "We kids appreciated Christmas," whispered Jon to himself. "We didn't expect the world with a string on it." Anger burned in his heart. He remembered the stories his mother had told him about her first Christmas in Utah. "Christmas was really Christmas then," thought Jon, "it was love and sacrifice—something to be remembered." ON shivered as a great blast of cold air came upon him, and he turned to see Madge and Ken coming through the door. Something shone in their young eyes that made Jon's suddenly wet. He put the memory of those other Christmases behind him, and greeted them with a quick, glad smile. "Mr. Wayne," said Ken, manfully, "I want to buy a ring, a diamond ring." His young face was suddenly flushed, and he added: "Madge and I are going to be married in June." He lifted his red head and looked proudly into Jon's eyes. "I've found a job—not a grand one, but a job. It's going to be better later on when I've had experience. I'm going to build a little house, and...." Jon didn't hear the rest. He was remembering with a queer, little shock that just that morning he had expected Madge and Ken to move in on him. And here they were— the two young love-birds—facing him eagerly, explaining how they were going to fend for themselves. Jon felt his legs go a little weak and grasped the counter for support. Ken was pointing into the case RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1940 where the rings were displayed. "I want a small diamond," he said defiantly. "I can't expect to start where my father is now. Madge won't mind a small stone when she knows that someday I'll buy her a bigger one." Jon's hands trembled as he took out the rings and put them on the counter. Faintly, from a distance, he heard Ken and Madge selecting the ring. Faintly, and from a distance, he heard his own voice saying: "Someday, Eleanor, I'll bring you a diamond that's worthy of your loveliness." Good grief! He'd never bought her another one. She still wore the tiny stone they had selected when they were married. She had always been so proud of that tiny stone. His eyes traveled quickly to the shining gem in the window. Why hadn't he thought of it before! That was the present for Eleanor. It belonged to her. It had belonged to her the moment he had bought it. He'd take it home to her tonight, and in the morning he'd put it on her finger. It would always be a token of his love—always the shining token of all Christmases to come, all Christmases that had ever come. He left so exhilarated, so happy, so gay that he found himself saying loudly: "You're in luck, young man! I'm having a fifty percent sale today." At the startled, denying look that flashed into Madge's eyes, he cried: "Just gave Mrs. Carter fifty percent off on Hal's watch.: I aim to do the same for you." Ken's face was a study in astonishment and joy. He picked up the ting and slipped it on Madge's white DREAMS ARE FOR CHRISTMAS finger. She turned her hand this way and that, watching the facets gleam, and trying not to look too proud and overjoyed. Her grin was flippant, as were her words. "Sure it's genuine at that price, Daddy? I'd hate, after a while," her eyes teased Ken, "to have to pawn it and find it was paste." "I'm guaranteeing it, baby," he said, and felt his heart glow. He hadn't called her "baby" for years, but all at once she seemed the same close, sweet baby she had been so long ago. He put his arm about her and kissed her gently. Then he asked: "Does Mother...?" "We told her first," cried Madge eagerly. "She said it was all right." Her eyes met his with a straight, fearless look, and she added: "About Mother's permanent, Dad. You needn't worry, she's going to get it. I've been walking to work and saving on lunches. I wanted to give her something of my very own." "Tm glad," said Jon simply, and kissed her again. As he watched her going up the street on Ken's arm, his heart was a mixture of pain and gladness. Madge would come through all right!; T was late afternoon when Deck came into the store. He opened the door with his usual tush, and shouted: "Say, Dad, if you and Mom can't manage that dress for Madge, I've got some money. I sold my stamp collection, and...." He 827 broke off excitedly and held out a few lean bills. Jon stared at them. Deck's beloved stamp collection! He felt a lump coming into his throat, and he heard the boy say: "I sold my baseball bat and mitt, too, and got a present for Mom." He searched about in his pocket and dug out a silver dollar. It made a tinkling silver sound as he put it on the counter. "Don't need that, Dad, got your present out of something else I sold." Jon's voice was gruff, because if it hadn't been it would have been tender. He looked at the dollar, and said: "That's all right, fellow, keep it. I don't need it, and there might be something you'd like to have." For a moment their eyes met, man to man; and for some unaccountable reason, Jon's hand went out. Deck's grubby little fist tightened about his father's fingers, and Jon felt a great happiness surge into his heart. Deck was all right, too! They shook hands, and Jon said: "I'm thinking of 'closing early tonight. Want to close the shutters while I wrap up a last minute gift? Then we'll walk home together." Deck rushed clatteringly away to close the shutters, and Jon wrapped the ring in a bit of bright paper. The two men were smiling broadly as they left the store. Jon looked down at the top of his son's battered cap, and his voice was eager. "Christmas isn't Christmas without mistletoe, Deck. We'll have to buy an arm load!" Mrs. Santa Mary A. Nickerson ES, there really is a lady Santa Claus. No, she does not live at the North Pole, but in her modest little home near the Wasatch Mountains. This short, chubby Mrs. Santa is ae rd dolls with crepe-paper dresses, penny balloons, tempting red apples with marshmallow faces, and many other inexpensive gifts to gladden the hearts of tiny tots. The jingle of the old-fashioned sleigh bells, that hang "MRS. SANTA" DISTRIBUTES CHRISTMAS GIFTS wholly convincing dressed in her bright red suit with its white trimmings, and with the saucy little hood coming down to the upper tips of the white beard, and black, shining boots that afford her ample protection for wading through the snow and ice as she shoulders her bag and starts out on her round of home calls each Christmas Eve. Tucked away in the bag are penny all-day suckers transformed into from her shoulder, announces her approach—yet there is no sleigh (or automobile) at her command. She walks. Her visits take her to different parts of the city, and chiefly into the homes where she feels that "Santa" could give the most cheer—where there is an ill or a crippled child, a lonely woman, an elderly couple who might be "remembering" on Christmas Eve, or where sorrowing folk might be cheered by a comforting word. Then, too, Mrs. Santa has become a tradition in many families, and it would not be Christmas Eve without her brief visits.
To her neighbors and friends she is Mrs. Mary Bennett, a good neighbor, a true friend, and her husband's loyal helpmate. She is a busy housewife, for she is certain that a balanced diet for those four young college lads is quite as important in their lives as is the knowledge which they receive in the classrooms.
For many years Mrs. Bennett had dreamed of the day when she could know the joy of making others happy at Christmas. But the years rolled by, each one much the same as the last. Then, ten years ago, she decided that if she ever expected to do anything about it, now was the time to begin.
Little by little her hopes evolved into a plan—not an elaborate plan, such as she would like, but at least one that would enable her to bring smiles of happiness to the faces of small children. Although it was only a few days before the New Year, and there was yet ample time before the next Christmas, she decided to act upon her plans at once, lest she change her mind.
Hurrying to town, she purchased the cloth for her Santa Claus suit. As she cut, stitched, and fitted, other plans came into being. With the suit completed, she turned her attention to the bag and its contents. She resolved that each day, or each week, she would make some little gift to place in the bag. Out of the sewing box came bits of left-over materials which her deft fingers fashioned into adorable little front aprons for the wee lassies and comfy bibs for the babies. From small scraps of flowered lawn, white voile, and two-cents-a-yard lace, she created dainty hankies to delight many a small miss. Often the few extra pennies in her purse were spent for tiny, bright trinkets—a china doll, or quacking ducks and croaking frogs that sing the same tune when squeezed between the thumbs and fingers of little chaps who adore noise makers. A few old-fashioned net stockings were filled with candy, nuts, a few small picture books, and topped with an orange—these for the homes where the children might be disappointed on Christmas morning. Then when those last busy days before Christmas came again, they found her ready and waiting, with only the popcorn balls to make, wrap, and pack into her bag.
EACH year Mrs. Bennett goes through much the same joyous preparations and keen anticipations for the next Christmas. "I enjoy the Christmas spirit every day throughout the year," she remarks, "because I begin making my Christmas gifts in January."
Often Mrs. Bennett is requested to appear as the Santa Claus at various programs for the adults and for the aged, as well as for the children. Sometimes she makes eight or ten appearances during the week before Christmas, yet she has never accepted any recompense for her services. She has no desire to commercialize on her hobby of being a Santa, nor to act as a professional substitute.
For quite some time, the members of her family were not in accord with her Santa Claus activities. They could not understand why she enjoyed spending time and energy in the service of others. One son was especially concerned over her strenuous Christmas Eve trips, and tried to persuade her to discontinue them. This humble little lady would scarcely admit being a psychologist, but she cleverly planned to have that son substitute for her as a Santa Claus at a children's program. When he returned home, he said, "Mother, now I understand why you are determined to play 'Santa.' Nothing could be more inspiring than the happy faces of all those little boys and girls as they tell their wants to Santa Claus." Since then the independent little mother and grandmother goes merrily on her way, wishing one and all a "Merry Christmas." Not even family plans can interfere with her own Santa visits on Christmas Eve.
FOR many years, on her birthday anniversary, Mrs. Bennett's friends have called to wish her "many happy returns of the day." This year on that eventful day, July 31, sixty women attended a delightful surprise party given in her honor at the home of a friend. After refreshments had been served, Mrs. Bennett was puzzled by the strangely familiar ringing of sleigh bells, which proved to be her own "Santa" bells carried by the bearers of a large bag that was filled to the top with parcels. As the guest of honor unwrapped the parcels, she found several lovely personal gifts. But the parcels that were the most precious to her were those containing gifts for her "Santa" bag. There were balls of various colors and sizes; dolls, jump ropes, picture books, crayons and paint books; wee tin dishes and pastry sets; tops, marbles, modeling clay, and soap-bubble sets; tiny trucks, and many other gifts to please those youngsters who anxiously await the coming of Mrs. Santa. "Now, how ever can I wait for Christmas?" questioned Mrs. Bennett.
There is a slight catch in her voice, and her lovely brown eyes are moist, as she tells of her Santa visits. "I have seen much joy, and also sorrow, in my visits," Mrs. Bennett said, "and I have had many touching experiences." And one is very certain that those experiences are just as safe with Mrs. Santa as with a physician who has taken an oath to observe his code of ethics.
A cozy chair by her fireside holds no appeal for Mrs. Bennett, as compared with her own joyous Christmas Eve. Regardless of snow or cold, blocks without number she walks, and countless steps she climbs, in making her home calls to wish entire families a Merry Christmas, and leave her little gifts to reassure the children that there is a Santa Claus.
This very real Mrs. Santa humbly says, "If I can cheer but one person each Christmas, surely that is all the pay anyone could ask—and no one gets more joy out of it than I do."
"WHEN mother-love makes all things bright, When joy comes with the morning light, When children gather round their tree, Thou Christmas Babe, we sing of thee."

Make Way for Christmas Barbara Badger Burnett
THE first snow on the foothills should awaken in all of us the first bit of Christmas Spirit and remind us that this happy day of good cheer will soon be here. Year after year most of us go on letting Christmas sneak upon us and find us just about half ready for it. Then we vow that next year we will start our preparations earlier and thus enjoy the day more.
Christmas is the happiest day in the whole year for the children. It is an expected day when longed-for toys are found under glistening Christmas trees, and stockings left hanging by the fireplace are found stuffed. To Father, it is a day free from everyday worries, a day in which he can relax and play with the children's toys, and snooze if he wants to; but for most mothers, it is a day of hard work in hot kitchens, basting the turkey, preparing vegetables, scraping celery, stirring pudding sauce, kneading down rolls and doing dozens of other jobs required in preparation for the Christmas dinner.
But it wouldn't be Christmas without the family gathered around a brightly decorated table laden with all that makes the Christmas feast symbolical of good cheer and hospitality. Wise mothers and cooks will begin the preparation of their Christmas dinner now. With careful planning and thought, most of the dinner can be prepared before Christmas day, giving Mother more time to enjoy the day with the rest of the family.
The first thing to do is to decide upon the menu. Turkey is traditional, so it is a good idea to start with that. Turkey calls for cranberries in some form. There must be mashed potatoes for the giblet gravy, celery, two vegetables, a cocktail or appetizer, salad, if desired, bread of some form, and a dessert, to complete a simple Christmas feast. Color schemes for special holidays, such as red and green for Christmas, help in deciding on what vegetables, salads, and desserts will be most attractive. During the holiday season, there are many red and green foods to choose from, as well as beautiful blooms and evergreens to dress up our tables. Keep the menu simple to eliminate last minute work and extra dishes.
An attractive menu and one easy to prepare consists of:
Stuffed Cinnamon Apple Salad Toasted Paprika Crackers Roast Turkey with Celery Stuffing Mashed Potatoes Giblet Gravy Buttered Green Peas Browned Parsnips Whole Cranberry Sauce Celery Hot Rolls Plum Pudding Vanilla Dip Hard Sauce
STUFFED cinnamon apple salad is ideal to begin a Christmas dinner. It is a cocktail salad, and its red and green color make the table gay. It is simple to prepare, and should be made ready the day before and set aside in the ice box ready to be slipped onto the salad plates just before serving. To make this salad, select medium-sized apples (Jonathans are preferred), peel, core and cook slowly in a syrup flavored with cinnamon candies. It may be necessary to add a few drops of red coloring. It is best to cook the apples in just enough syrup to half cover them, and turn several times during the cooking. Cool the apples and fill with Philadelphia Cream cheese. In the top, insert a small red candle to be lighted when served. Tuck the apples away in the ice box and forget them until time to place on the table. While you are preparing the salad, wash and separate the lettuce and put it out of the way. To serve with this salad, spread any kind of plain crackers with butter, sprinkle with paprika, put a slice of cherry in the center and toast lightly in the oven. Stack them loosely on a plate until served.
Try stuffing your turkey this year with celery dressing. To your favorite dressing recipe add two cups of finely-diced celery. Be sure to have your turkey ready to stuff and pop into the oven early. The dressing will be lighter if it is not allowed to stand in the turkey but is put into it when the turkey is ready to be put into the oven. It is best not to add the onion to the dressing until ready to use. The onion should be chopped (grinding is apt to make it bitter).
Parsnips were chosen as one vegetable on this menu because they can be cooked beforehand and browned in a few minutes before serving. If you can obtain fresh, frozen peas they will cook in twelve minutes; or canned peas may be warmed up and seasoned. In making whole cranberry sauce, bring the cranberries and water to the boiling point and add a pinch of soda before adding the sugar. The soda softens the skins, lessens the cooking time, and helps to keep the berries whole.
Hot rolls are no trouble today. Ice-box rolls can be made several days in advance. When it comes to desserts for a Christmas dinner, plum pudding has been traditional ever since Mrs. Cratchet carried her steaming Christmas pudding into her happy family. These puddings used to be made rich with suet and heavy with fruit. They were anything but the best ending for a big dinner. Today, we serve plum puddings as light and digestible as a piece of cake. Try this recipe. It can be made a week before Christmas, but must be kept in a cool place:
1 cup whole wheat bread crumbs 1 cup whole wheat flour ½ cup butter 2 cup brown sugar ½ cup blanched almonds 1 cup seedless raisins 1 cup maraschino cherries 1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon salt 1 cup milk
Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Cream the butter and sugar and add to the bread crumbs. Sift in the dry ingredients and add fruits and nuts. Fill greased pudding mold two-thirds full and steam two hours. Heat again before serving, and do serve this pudding at the table garnished with a sprig of holly on the top. For variation this year, and also to carry out a red and green color scheme, add bits of red and green cherries to your hard sauce.
To sum up the preparation of this dinner, the rolls, cranberry sauce, the pudding, and hard sauce may be prepared several days before Christmas. The day before Christmas make the salad, prepare the lettuce and crackers, make ready the turkey, crumb the bread for the dressing and cook the giblets. Clean the celery and cook the parsnips. The potatoes can be peeled and covered with cold water. Get the linen, silver and dishes ready. On Christmas day, stuff and roast the turkey, warm up the pudding and make the dip. Cook the potatoes and the peas, brown the parsnips, bake the rolls, make the gravy and set the table.
THE Christmas table can be beautifully and inexpensively decorated. Use a white cloth. For a centerpiece, which is the most important part of the table decoration, select 19 large red apples, cut a small hole in the top of each to insert a small, thin, red candle. Arrange 7 apples in a ring on a large, round, silver plate, with one more in the center. On top of these, stack 5 apples with one more in the center. On top of these stack a third layer of three with one in the center, and finish with one on top. Insert a long, thin, red candle in each hole that is showing, and bank the bottom with branches of evergreen. The salad with a small, red candle and green lettuce will match the centerpiece. For place cards use white dinner cards with a holly sticker in the corner. The Spirit of Christmas reaches its height in the dinner. Let it be happy, full of good cheer, and end with a MERRY CHRISTMAS for all.

TWO BOYS Patricia Bryson
The Christmas stockings, robbed of all their load, Hang limp and empty by the fireside. There's tinsel, paper, ribbon, everywhere; They've wrecked the tree I trimmed with eager pride.
I'll let the litter stay awhile. I know When Christmas comes around, boys will be boys. What fun the two of them are having there! The house is filled with happiness—and noise.
They've built a track across the living room; A streamlined train goes flashing past the door. They've built a windmill on the radio, An airport in the middle of the floor.
The younger of the two complains, "But, Mom, I almost never get a chance to play! It isn't fair!" The older grins, abashed, "But I was only showing him the way...."
And now again the air rings with their shouts; They laugh together—Christmas is such fun! I watch them, and my heart is filled with pride And love for both—my husband and my son!

The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 6 The Light That Never Fails
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good. (I Thes. 5, 21.)
EACH generation receives from the one preceding it the sum total of that predecessor's accumulated experience and achievement—its wisdom, its culture, and its forward-looking thoughts. Also, each generation passes on to the one coming after it, not only its own strength and wisdom but also its own weakness and folly and the false gods it has come to worship. This age has reached its present stature only by standing on the shoulders of the past. Nations, as well as individuals, are literally their brothers' keepers. Today is the warder of the gates of tomorrow, the guardian of tomorrow's civilization and its progress. Through pain and want and devastating trials, those going before have secured for us the heritage which we now enjoy. Is it not our obligation to conserve its priceless values that we may contribute them to the future? Standards and institutions that have been established through long years of sacrifice and suffering should not be lost to those coming after us because of our failure to appreciate and cherish these blessings.
The harvest of the years has been rich in soul values. Only yesterday men and nations were looking forward to international relationships of unity and power. Poets were beginning to sing of universal brotherhood and of a federation of the world. But, lo, today the smouldering fires of greed and hatred have broken forth again. Armed madness and ruthless destruction are abroad in the land. The treasures of the earth are being shattered, ancient creeds discarded, social standards tossed lightly aside, and the sacred documents of law and order are being torn to bits. It is as if unprincipled hands were plucking up century plants on the very eve of their blossoming. Tyranny is seeking to warp the souls of men to fit into a crooked mould of brute force. For a portion of humanity today, there is no promise of a harvest after a lifetime of service has been performed. The idealities, the visions, the dreams of men just and good, are being swept away. Many of the victims of this hopeless struggle already face only servitude and despair. The whole world is asking, "What next?"
IN times like these men begin to search for something with which to anchor their lives. They want something stable to tie to, sound principles on which they can depend. They want to be assured that there is purpose and direction back of the shifting scenes of life. They want to know that life is more than a drama of tragic despair.
Just as there have been prophets and teachers down the years who have recognized the truth and been willing to make every necessary sacrifice in order to establish it among men, so, also, there have ever been those who have stoned the prophets and set up their own judgment in defiance of law and order. Then, too, there have always been the vacillating ones, those who were not sure enough nor brave enough to defend their convictions, and who would wash their hands of all responsibility rather than decide for or against the truth. But no one has done more mischief, perhaps, in shaping the philosophies of men, than have the cheap charlatans who parade their theories under the guise of science. Confident in their own opinions, though not actually supported by scientific fact, they seek to undermine man's faith in the most fundamental truths of religion and life. Their philosophies are not hopeful nor forward-looking. And in the end, they often find themselves dissatisfied with the very doctrines they have originated. They destroy the ladder under their own feet and then cry out that life is a mockery.
Be wary of those who publish a doctrine of defeat. Be slow to accept any melancholy philosophy that takes hope out of the heart of man; any sorry preachment that belittles the soul and looks toward chaos and utter despair as the ultimate outcome of all our days. Such beliefs will not withstand the light of truth.
FOR nearly two thousand years now men have been stumbling along trying to find something better than the Gospel of the Master. And what has it profited them? The longer they search, the farther they get from the goal. They have hoped to guide humanity to a better way, but their torch is dim and flickering and threatens to be extinguished by each new revelation of truth. Their poor, misguided efforts have brought the world to a sorry crisis.
But the outlook is by no means hopeless. So long as one righteous nation stands, there is assurance that the treasures of the ages shall be held inviolate, and that truth shall not perish from the earth. The things that make men decent and self-respecting must be held in trust by the free men of the earth, for generations yet unborn. There must not be a blacking out of these high values because of indifference.
There is a tendency today to treat serious matters with a light flippancy. The wisdom of the world is being phrased in a pun and laughed off. The most profound thoughts of the wisest teachers of the past are being caricatured in cheap jokes. If we permit shoddy pretence to undermine the fundamentals of the present, are we not defeating the purpose of the future?
The harvest of the years has fallen onto the threshing floor of our own time. The truth that is being winnowed from the chaff is in our keeping. In passing it on to the next generation, are we going to permit it to lose any of its vitality or beauty because of our lack of vision, our failure to interpret truly, or our cowardice in expressing it? Unless we are attuned to truth, how can we recognize real values? If some of the rulers of the earth had not wantonly thrown away the key to happiness, vast armed forces would not now be walking in the shamble of death and destruction.
Truth is as old as time. It is a precious and enduring gift of Divinity to man. Though it is a gift, man may possess it only through earnest desire and vigilant search. Having found it, he must cherish it and use it if he would not lose it. The Master came to bring the true pattern of life to mankind. It was so precious that He was willing to die for it. In its long journey down the years it has not lost any of its worth or beauty. Its guiding light reaches out across the world. By following that light, men may walk out of the narrow streets of chaos and despair onto the broad highway of law and order, of good fellowship, and of brotherly love. The Gospel is for every nation, kindred, tongue and people. A universal acceptance of its truths will bring a logical solution to all the problems of life, for it is the key to eternal peace and joy and progress. It brings assurance and comfort and forward-looking hope. It is radiant with the light of truth, the light that never fails.
Did not the Master say: "I am the light of the world... I am the way, the truth, and the life.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.... Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you."

"WHAT means this glory round our feet," The Magi mused, "more bright than morn?" And voices chanted clear and sweet, "Today the Prince of Peace is born!" —James Russell Lowell.

HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
DECEMBER—For fullness of delight, walk through the "Land of Make Believe" at Christmas time, holding the hand of a little child.
PRINCESS ELIZABETH, 14 years old and heir to the British throne, broadcast a message of courage to the children of the world. She said, "When peace comes, remember it will be for us children of today to make the world of tomorrow a better and happier place." Brave words from a little girl in exile.
HATTIE W. CARAWAY, Senator from Arkansas, will be joined in the next Congress by seven other women legislators—Senator Margaret Smith of Maine and representatives Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Caroline O'Day of New York, Jessie Sumner of Illinois, Jeanette Rankin of Montana, Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts, and Frances Bolton of Ohio.
CAROLINE RUUTZ-REES of Connecticut recently celebrated her 50th anniversary as founder and headmistress of Rosemary Hall, an expensive and exclusive school for girls. The college is unique in many particulars. The students call each other (manlike) by last names, wear uniforms, and engage in sports and athletics, as well as light accomplishments and classical instruction.
DOROTHY ARZNER, Hollywood's only woman film director, began her career as a script stenographer.
NAZIMOVA, one of the stage's greatest stars, has returned to the screen after an absence of 15 years as the heroine in Ethel Vance's intriguing story "Escape."
JOAN CRAWFORD, noted star, engages in relief work for the poor, especially providing medical attention.
MRS. WARREN CREASY for 13 years has been a fine look-out in the forests of Pennsylvania. She spends her days in a tower on a high mountain to notify the rangers if she spots a blaze.
HESTER SIMS SMITH, 82, devoted mother and Relief Society worker, was one of the first women workers in the Deseret News publishing house. We also note with sorrow the recent passing of Mary Ann Burt, 91, an heroic and courageous woman, Luthilla Pratt Kimball, 85, all worthy and estimable mothers.
KATHERINE FOUGERA'S "With Custer's Cavalry," Rebecca Yancey William's "The Vanishing Virginian," Inglis Fletcher's "Raleigh's Eden," and "Mr. And Mrs. Cugat," by Isabel Scott Rosick, are among the new books by women this fall.
HANNAH M. ALDRICH, 100 years old, Anna H. Vincent, 100, Mary Ann Brockbank, 97, Ann C. Miln, 92, and Sarah E. Connell, all Utah pioneers, received honor and homage recently on the occasion of their respective birthdays.
GRETA GARBO has taken out first papers for American citizenship; while every month notables from foreign shores are arriving in America and many, like Garbo, are applying for citizenship.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman - - - - - - - - - - President Marcia K. Howells - - - - - - - First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - - - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Luella N. Adams Nellie O. Parker Clauda Baga Vivian R. McConkie Marianne C. Sharp Anna S. Barlow Anna B. Hart Leda T. Jensen Edith S. Elliott Beatrice F. Stevens Pauline T. Pingree Achsa E. Paxman Ethel B. Andrew Mary G. Judd Alice B. Castleton Rae B. Barker
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. XXVII DECEMBER, 1940 No. 12

EDITORIAL
Peace
AT the Christmas season our attention is reverently turned toward Him who was born amid the humblest of circumstances, in an improvised camp in the City of David?Jesus the Christ, the Only Begotten of the Eternal Father in the flesh. For generations men have listened to the sweet, simple, brief account of His birth, and gratitude has filled their hearts and hope burned anew within them.
The simple scriptural record tells us that shepherds were in the field "keeping watch over their flock by night.
"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them and the glory of the Lord shone round about them; and they were sore afraid.
"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people.
"For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.
"And this shall be a sign unto you: You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God, and saying,
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:8-14).
This message of peace and good will toward men is the thing which has illuminated the Christmas season for 2000 years. And it is for this that we should take Christmas to our hearts with love and rejoicing.
This year the Master's message of peace must penetrate the hearts of men through the noise of bursting bombs, the din of marching feet, the hate and bitterness of selfish and Godless men. But its penetrating power is great. Though for 2,000 years there have been those who would crush it to earth, it rises again and again, touching the hearts of the righteous and leavening the wickedness of the world.
This Christmas Day the rancor and hate of men may set the cannons roaring and the bombs bursting, but the message of the Master will not be silenced. Penetrating the noise, confusion, and bitterness, it will spring up in the hearts of righteous men and women everywhere bringing comfort and peace, diminishing hate and tempering evil.
The peace which the message of the Master brings to mankind is the only enduring peace; it is a peace which the forces of evil cannot destroy. It is an inner peace, an inner state of tranquility. It is freedom from fear, agitating passions, discordant and conflicting emotions. It is the peace referred to by the ancient prophet, Isaiah, when he said: "And the work of righteousness shall be peace and the effect of righteousness, quietness and assurance forever." (Isaiah, 32:17)
It is a peace which is available to everyone if he will but open his heart and receive it. The Savior has told us: "And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass; but the end is not yet."
Latter-day Saints, whose testimonies are sufficiently strong, know peace. Whether they live in a land where only the shocking tales of death and disaster reach them or in a land where green fields and mighty cities are laid waste by the despoilment of war, they have at their command a knowledge and a spiritual strength which gives them an inner peace that transcends the most powerful destructive forces.
Those who have within their hearts a testimony of the divinity of the Christ are reminded at this Christmas season of their responsibility to those children of the Father who have not seen the light, even to those who have forgotten that they are children of the Father and who disregard His message and would set at naught His works.
"Peace on earth, good will toward men" is the Christmas message. But who shall be the peacemakers? They must be those who bear the message of the Prince of Peace.

Elder George D. Pyper
ON NOVEMBER 21, a large circle of admiring friends and relatives paid tribute to Elder George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, at a public reception held at the Lion House Social Center in honor of his eightieth birthday. Endowed with unusual spiritual and mental vigor, gifted above the average, Elder Pyper's life has been characterized by outstanding service to his Church and community. The large number of Church and civic leaders, friends and relatives attending the reception gave evidence of the high regard and general esteem felt for the venerable Churchman. Members of the Relief Society General Board joined the group in extending birthday felicitations. Elder Pyper is well known to Relief Society women, having endeared himself to them through the pages of his book, The Romance of An Old Playhouse, which was one of the books studied in the 1937-38 Literature course. At that time, Elder Pyper graciously responded to many invitations to visit stakes and wards, interpreting for them the Latter-day Saint culture as expressed in a love of drama and in the erection of a "Cathedral in the Desert" (the Salt Lake Theatre). His long and intimate association with the theatre is unique. The Relief Society General Board expresses its appreciation to Elder Pyper for his contributions to our organization and extends best wishes for a continuance of health and vitality to perform the many tasks for which he is so well qualified.
EXCERPTS FROM "BIOGRAPHY AND FAMILY RECORD OF LORENZO SNOW" By Eliza R. Snow Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"It is a noticeable feature in those who cherish a spirit of apostasy from the light of the Gospel, that they adopt the doctrine of universalism and think none too wicked for a complete and unconditional salvation." (Page 31)
"Early in the spring of 1840, I was appointed to a mission in England. I here record a circumstance which occurred a short time previous?one which has been riveted on my memory never to be erased, so extraordinary was the manifestation. At the time, I was at the house of Elder H. G. Sherwood; he was endeavoring to explain the parable of our Savior, when speaking of the husbandman who hired servants and sent them forth at different hours of the day to labor in his vineyard.
"While attentively listening to his explanation, the Spirit of the Lord rested mightily upon me?the eyes of my understanding were opened, and I saw as clear as the sun at noonday, with wonder and astonishment, the pathway of God and man. I formed the following couplet which expresses the revelation, as it was shown me, and explains Father Smith's dark saying to me at a blessing meeting in the Kirtland Temple, prior to my baptism, as previously mentioned in my first interview with the Patriarch.
As man now is, God once was; As God now is, man may be.
"I felt this to be a sacred communication, which I related to no one except my sister, Eliza, until I reached England, when in a confidential, private conversation with President Brigham Young, in Manchester, I related to him this extraordinary manifestation." (Pages 46-47)
(Traveling in France in 1852.) "In passing over the country, and searching the mind of the Spirit in reference to its inhabitants, my heart is pained in contemplating the dark, dreary and bloody fate and scourge that await this nation." (Page 202)
(While opening the Italian mission in 1850.) "Our course is often dark and difficult; but I believe that, however slow it may be for a while, it will ultimately brighten with complete success. Popery, ignorance, and superstition form a threefold barrier to our efforts. Strange customs, laws and languages surround us on every side. In a word, we feel that we are in Italy?the polluted fountain which has overspread the earth with her defiling waters." (Page 135)
"Let me say to the brethren... That the Priesthood was bestowed upon you, as upon the Son of God, for no other purpose than that through sacrifice you might be proven, that, peradventure at the last day, you might stand approved before the Lord." (Page 376)
"I would say, let this motto be that of every Elder in Israel, and of every person worthy to be called Saint: Fear not?never stand still?move on." (Page 402)
(1872) "Our mission is to the world, and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay foundations for their temporal salvation. Our object is as much for the temporal as for the spiritual salvation of the people. The time is approaching when the nations will be broken up, on account of their wickedness. The Latter-day Saints are not going to war against them?they will destroy themselves with their immorality and abominations. They will quarrel and contend one with another, state with state, and nation with nation, until they are broken up; and thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands will, undoubtedly, come for protection at the hands of the servants of God, as much so as in the days of Joseph of Egypt, when he was called upon to devise a plan for the salvation of the house of Israel. We have received revelations, and, accordingly, we are here in these mountain vales, and we are going to stay. We shall cultivate our farms. And lay a foundation for a time when the nations shall be broken up. Multitudes will then flee to these valleys of the mountains for safety, and we shall extend protection to them. You may say, 'Shall you require them to be baptized and become Latter-day Saints?' Not by any means." (Page 346)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 6 The Lord's Tenth?Lorenzo Snow (Tuesday, March 4, 1941)
"And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord." (Doctrine and Covenants 119:4)
LORENZO SNOW, as a young man, entered Oberlin College at Oberlin, Ohio, which was then an orthodox Presbyterian institution. Although of a religious frame of mind, he was not impressed by the sectarianism of the college environment. During these college years, he wrote, "If there is nothing better than is to be found here in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions."
HIS CONVERSION
During his period at college, his beloved sister and confidante, Eliza Roxey Snow, had embraced "Mormonism" and moved to Kirtland. Lorenzo desired to study Hebrew; and as there was then at Kirtland a capable Hebrew scholar teaching this language to some of the brethren, he went there and enrolled in the Hebrew school. The religion of his associates did not interest him at first, but shortly afterwards, due to contacts with the Prophet and other leading brethren, he was baptized in June, 1836, being then in his twenty-third year. From this time onward until his death, he was identified as one of the vanguard of the Builders of the Kingdom of God on earth.
PUBLIC AND ECCLESIASTICAL SERVICE
In addition to several missions within the United States, he served an extended mission in Great Britain, assisted in the rededication of Palestine, visited Hawaii, opened the missionary work in Italy, and planned for its introduction in Switzerland, Malta, British India, Russia, Austria, and South America. For twenty-nine years, he was a member of the legislative assembly of Utah and was president of its council for ten years. His influence in the establishment and development of industries and cooperative ventures in Utah settlements is monumental.
THEOLOGICAL TEACHING
A consideration of Lorenzo Snow would not be complete without reference to a statement made by him, but which has been variously attributed to almost all of the early Church leaders. While on his mission to England (1840-1843), he formulated the expression, "As man now is, God once was; as God now is, man may be," and wrote this statement in a letter to his sister, Eliza R. Snow, at Nauvoo. Later it became a current saying among the Latter-day Saints. While the credit for creating this meaningful couplet belongs to Lorenzo Snow, the doctrinal teaching upon which it was based had its origin in the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
TRAINING IN PRACTICAL LEADERSHIP
In 1847, a year and a half before he was called to be an apostle, he was placed in charge of Mt. Pisgah, one of the temporary settlements of the scattered Saints in Iowa. Poverty and sickness were rampant in the camp. He manifested great ability as an organizer by sending some of the brethren to neighboring non-Mormon settlements to secure work, the payment for their services to be made in food. Others were placed at work manufacturing furniture, churns, barrels, etc., that could be sold to the permanent settlers of the surrounding country. Those capable of making and repairing wagons were set to these tasks, in preparation for the intended journey to the West. In addition, he arranged to keep the morale of the community healthful by fostering recreational and religious activities.
In 1853, Lorenzo Snow was called to settle at Brigham City, which place he considered his home for the following forty years. Here he became the moving power in the organization and direction of the Brigham City Mercantile and Manufacturing Association ? an industrial, agricultural cooperative experiment. The association engaged in merchandising, operated a tannery, a shoe manufacturing establishment, harness and saddle shops, a woolen mill, a cotton factory with a cotton farm in the southern part of the state to supply the raw materials, a dairy, butcher shops, flour mills, a hat factory, etc. The association also owned cattle and sheep. Altogether, there were about forty industrial branches successfully operating during a nine-year period. The products from the experiment during the year 1875 were valued at $260,000.
AS PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH
When Lorenzo Snow became President of the Church in October, 1898, he made a statement that was characteristic of his retiring nature. "I do not want this administration to be known as Lorenzo Snow's administration," he said, "but as God's, in and through Lorenzo Snow." With the conviction that he was but the instrument in the hands of the Almighty, he set about to deal with the various problems that were confronting the Church. The most pressing of these was that of Church finances. Due to the escheatment of Church property during the anti-polygamy conflict and various industrial developments which the Church had undertaken for the temporal benefit of the Saints and their communities, the Church was heavily in debt. President Snow now commenced to utilize the wide experience he had gained in temporal affairs. By issuing $1,000,000 in short-term bonds, all of which were purchased locally, he was able to meet the most pressing obligations.
REVIVAL OF THE PRINCIPLE OF TITHING
While at St. George, Utah, in the spring of 1899, he received a revelation that the Saints must repent of their indifference to the law of tithing and commence to observe it more faithfully, or they would find that many of their blessings would be withdrawn. During the decades preceding this event, there had been a growing laxity in the observance of this practice. Its revival was essential for the temporal and spiritual welfare of both the people and the Church.
As President Snow journeyed northward, he preached the law of tithing at every stopping place, and the remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. The Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations were convened in their annual conference when President Snow reached Salt Lake City. He availed himself of the opportunity, when addressing the officers' meeting of the Young Men's organization on May 30, to appeal to them for their support in sustaining the law of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse, the following resolution was presented to the representatives of nearly every stake in the Church and unanimously adopted by them:
"Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise."
This ready response of the representatives of the youth of the Church to his appeal to support the tithe system visibly affected the aged president. Arising again, he said: "Brethren, the God of our Fathers bless you. Every man who is here, who has made this promise, will be saved in the Celestial Kingdom. God bless you. Amen."
On July 2 of that year, a special fast meeting and solemn assembly was held in the Salt Lake Temple, at which 623 persons were present, representing every ward and stake in the Church. The meeting had been called by President Snow to present the matter of tithing observance for their consideration. The group unanimously accepted the resolution formerly adopted by the Y. M. M. I. A. Officers.
The result of this new emphasis upon an old principle was that everywhere in the Church people became "tithing-conscious" and commenced returning to the Lord that which was justly His. This revival of tithing as a Church-wide practice started the Church on the road toward economic emancipation and enabled the Church to expand its great missionary,
ecclesiastical, educational, and social program, which so characterized it in the twentieth century. President Snow did not live to see the Church reap all of the benefits of this renewed interest in tithing, as he died on October 10, 1901, but he saw the first fruits of his divinely inspired reformation and died confident that neither political nor economic obstacles henceforth could crush the Church of God. 844 ESTIMATE OF HIS ADMINISTRATION B. H. Roberts evaluates his presidency as follows: "... Had he come to his position of chief leadership of the Church earlier in life, there is no question but that his administration would have been far more notable than it was under the limitations of three years, and under the handicap of extreme old age. But even as it was, in his achievements as the prophet leader of modern Israel... He set the Church in the way of being delivered from the financial straits into which it had fallen; and had given an impetus to the mission and dignity of the priesthood." Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What factors do you think led to the cessation of such cooperative movements as that at Brigham City when they appeared to be beneficial for the participants? (See Essentials of Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, pp. 543-544.) 2. What do you suppose caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 3. Why is it essential that the Saints be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 4. What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a result of President Snow's stimulation of tithepaying? Topics for Study and Special Reports 1. Relate Lorenzo Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church, as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 383-384.); 2. Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church. (See Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. Vl, pp. 376-380.) References John Henry Evans, Joseph Smith?An American Prophet, pp. 244-245. Improvement Era, Vol. II, p. 795. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 217-218; Vol. VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. Eliza R. And Lorenzo Snow, The Palestine Tourist. Norte: The following, copied from the private journal of Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, dated February 8, 1886, is of interest in connection with the account of the miraculous escape of President Wilford Woodruff from the hands of his enemies, referred to in Lesson 5, "Faith?A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff, the Great Evangelist," published in the November Magazine, page 783: "Today (Feb. 8) about twenty deputy marshalls searched the Gardo House, Church offices, Tithing Office and Historian's Office. In the latter place Wilford Woodruff and Erastus Snow were in great danger, but we succeeded in getting Brother Woodruft off by strategy and Erastus Snow likewise got away from the marshalls. Brother Woodruff walked across the street with me unnoticed." Usiting Seacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 6 Spiritual Preparation of the Home (Tuesday, March 4, 1941) "Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God." (I Corinthians 2:12) THE spirit of the home is the important and lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical aspects are forgotten. The spiritual preparation of the home for honoring the Priesthood depends largely upon the attitudes which are cultivated there and which are unconsciously absorbed by the children. An attitude of cooperation and helpfulness toward the ward bishop and other Church officers, rather than one of criticism, creates confidence and respect for them in the minds of children. The ward teachers visit homes of Church members by authority of the Priesthood, and the spirit with which they are received and the honor shown them will also have its effect on the members of the family. An absence of complaint on the part of the mother because of Priesthood activities which take the father away from home, and an attitude of encouragement to him in the performance of his duties, cannot fail to impress the children with the importance of the Priesthood. The ordination of a boy to the Aaronic Priesthood can be made a special event in the home. There could be a program of stories and incidents which show the blessings and powers of this Priesthood, as well as a history of its restoration in our time. Prayer, both family and individual, is a spiritual power in any home. Home Discussion Helps "It is the spirit which leads us to the performance of our duties." 'Without the spirit of the Gospel, we have only the form, which is without real power for good. -Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 6 Food for the Older Woman (Tuesday, March 11, 1941) HE wisest time to make plans for the diet of the older woman is during the years before she becomes an older woman. Doctors who specialize in diseases of the older age-groups claim that many 846 disturbances of later life might have been prevented through better food selection during the earlier adult years. Much of the treatment for the ailments of older people is dietary, with special emphasis on the protective foods. Fruits, vegetables, and milk are used extensively. Diet will neither cure nor prevent all disorders, although many of them do come from a lifetime of poor food habits. An adequate food supply served on a regular meal schedule is just as important in maintaining the body in a state of good health as one grows older as it was in producing a healthy body during childhood. The older woman is less active, her body processes slow down, and she needs fewer calories than during her younger adult years. This means cutting down on starches, sugars, and fats. She still has the same need for minerals, vitamins and proteins as when she was more active. Because so much attention has been centered on child nutrition during the recent past, many adults have taken the attitude that childhood is the only time when adequate nuttition is important, and consequently are extremely careless with their own food selection. Women who live alone are the greatest offenders against good nutrition for themselves. Frequent comments are, "Oh, that doesn't apply to me. My family is grown. I live alone. It doesn't matter what I eat. Besides, I lost all my teeth years ago." A few years of nutritional neglect may result in constipation, chronic indigestion, stomach ulcers, colitis and various other ailments of the digestive tract. Overweight is a common result of wrong diet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 Overweight lowers life expectancy. Insurance companies advocate that the normal weight of a person at age thirty is the ideal weight for them when older. Some people store fat more easily as they grow older. When the food intake exceeds the daily energy demands, the surplus is stored as body fat. This is the first principle to consider in weight control, whether the need is for gaining, reducing, or maintaining weight as it is. Moderate vitamin and mineral deficiency can affect health adversely, not only during childhood but also as the years progress. Recent research points to a higher Vitamin C need as age advances. Many vague symptoms of ill health are probably due to C deficiency. People who have artificial teeth frequently suffer from sore gums and sore mouth tissue underneath their plates. Diets high in Vitamin C help to correct this condition. Adults need liberal supplies of Vitamin B for the health of the digestive tract. As the years advance and the caloric intake is lowered to adjust to lowered physical activity, it is especially important to keep the Vitamin B* supply at a high level. Research studies show a need for increased use of iron foods in the diet of women. One report suggests that women up to the time of the menopause require about four times as much iron as do men. Surveys of women's diets show them to be getting much less iron than do men. The average woman eats about 800 fewer calories than does the average man. On the same type of diet, women would have less iron. Women use less meat. The prevalence of hypo-chronic anemia among LESSON DEPARTMENT women can be attributed. To their lower iron intake. Anemia is a frequent accompaniment of the menopause period. Roentgenograms show extreme demineralization of the skeletons in many older persons. Three probable explanations are given in the Journal of the American Medical Association for February 4, 1939: 1, An inadequate amount of calcium in the diet of the average adult. 2. The diet of some adults contains too little Vitamin D to make the calcium that is in the food effectively available. 3. As the person grows older, his ability to absorb minerals from the intestinal tract becomes less. This may be due to the previously mentioned deficiency of Vitamin D in the diet. Eggs and meat are high in iron as well as protein. Pork muscle is a good source of Vitamin B. CODDLED EGGS Anyone can boil an egg, but a good cook never does. Boiling eggs makes them tough and leathery. The ideal way to cook eggs in the shell is to allow one quart of boiling water for the first egg and one cup for each additional egg. This large amount of water means greater heat penetration and more uniform cooking of the egg. Cover the kettle, and set it on the back of the stove where the water will not boil. Leave the eggs in until they reach the desired degree of doneness. From five to seven minutes of this process makes a desirable soft-cooked egg. Thirty to forty minutes makes a hard-cooked egg. A hard-cooked egg can be more easily removed from the shell if the egg is removed from the water, the shell cracked, and the egg returned to the water about two minutes. If hard-cooked eggs are to be kept for future use, put them into cold water until the eggs are cold. This helps to prevent the formation of a dark green 847 substance where the yolk and white of the egg come together. A supply of hard-cooked eggs may be prepared at one time and kept in the refrigerator for future use. CREAMED EGGS Two cups medium white sauce, four hard-cooked eggs. Slice eggs into sauce and serve on toast. JONQUIL SAUCE 6 hard-cooked eggs, diced 1 cup cream or whole milk 1 tablespoon butter 1/8 teaspoon paprika 4 tablespoons finely-chopped parsley Place the ingredients in top of double boiler, let cook five to ten minutes. Remove from fire, add parsley and pour hot over cauliflower, broccoli, asparagus, peas, or other vegetable. CUSTARD SAUCE 11/2 cups scalded milk 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla Yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs Beat eggs slightly. Add sugar and salt. Stir constantly while adding gradually the hot milk. Cook over low heat or in double boiler until mixture thickens. Cool and add vanilla. Serve over gelatin puddings or squares of gingerbread or chocolate cake. STUFFED RIB PORK CHOPS WITH APPLES 6 rib pork chops, 11/2 inches thick 1 cup fine dry bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped celery 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon minced onion 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon savory seasoning Dash of pepper 1/4 teaspoon celery seed 3 tart red apples For the stuffing, cook the celery, onion, and parsley in butter for a few minutes, add the bread crumbs and seasonings, and stir until well mixed. Wipe the chops with a damp cloth. Cut a pocket in each chop. Sprinkle the chops with salt and pepper and rub lightly with flour. Sear the 848 chops in a heavy, hot skillet, turning the fat edges down at first and then browning both sides. Then fill each chop with stuffing and skewer the edges together with toothpicks. Lay the stuffed chops on a rack in a baking dish or pan with cover. On the top of each, place, cut side down, one-half of apple which has been cored but not pared. Cover closely and bake in a moderate oven (350? to 375? F.) for about 45 minutes, or until the meat is tender. Lift the chops and apples together from the baking dish onto a hot platter and remove RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 the toothpick skewers. Garnish with parsley and serve at once. References U. S. D. A. Yearbook, "Human Nutrition," Chapters on minerals and vitamins. Foundations of Nutrition, Rose, Chapters on "Diets for Adults" and "Vitamins and Minerals." Feeding the Family, Rose (4th Edition), Chapters on "Food for the Adult Woman" and "Food After Fifty." Foods Rich in Vitamins, Bureau of Home Economics U. S. D. A. S ob iterature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 6 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, March 18, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. Brief review 2. Some phases of the novel not previously considered 3. A few of the lessons that may be drawn from this novel 4. Significant quotations BRIEF REVIEW The last lesson dealt chiefly with characters in the novel and methods used by writers in characterization. A few of the historical characters were considered. The leadership of Washington, the eloquence of Pattick Henry, the culture of Hamilton, and the realism of Jefferson, as these qualities are stressed in the novel, were mentioned. The relationships between some of the fictional characters to these and other historical figures were pointed out. The chief members of the Howard family, together with their main traits, were presented. PHASES OF THE NOVEL NOT PREVIOUSLY CONSIDERED A novel is usually considered from the points of theme, setting, characters and plot. Liberty, its beginning and early development in America, the theme of this novel, is kept constantly before the reader. The setting, that is, the time and place of the action, has, of course, a direct bearing on the theme in this particular novel; and the characters and plot are likewise what they are because of the author's theme or purpose. The novel, in all these related aspects, is particularly significant today, when we need to know what the liberty we talk so much about really is, and (if we would preserve it) how it came into being. This book should help us to understand liberty and to comprehend our relationship to it. But there are many other interesting LESSON DEPARTMENT  aspects to a novel besides those already mentioned. The Tree of Liberty, like Adam Bede, restores the past and gives us an intimate view of a period of time which we can know only through books. Through this one we learn of manners, customs, activities in early American life which are unknown to us today. We see strange methods of transportation, of communication, manufacturing, lawmaking. We are introduced to unfamiliar traditions surrounding marriage, education, etc. The regular daily routine of the old Colonial hall is depicted. We become aware of the prevalence of class distinction that existed. We see the ideals of the aristocrat, for instance, expressed by Fleetwood Peyton when he gave to his sister, Jane, the twohundred-year-old family jewels which were a sort of symbol of the ideals for which the family stood: "It's a new family you're founding that should have its traditions.... Now listen, honey, for there's an obligation goes with these trinkets. The women who have worn them have taught their sons to place honor first, to fight bravely against odds, to play fairly, lose if needs be with a smile, to cultivate beauty and gentle mannets... To love what is high and noble and despise what is common and mean; to build pride that can sustain and lead." The chief conflict in the fictional part of the story arises from Jane Peyton's persistent effort to insure those traditions for her children and grandchildren, and her inability to see the equal worthiness of the traditions of Matthew's family?glorification of sturdy individualism, love of the land and of simple ways of life; democracy, in short. From this 849 aspect of the book we may see how important both ideals are in a wellbalanced personality. Tom and Margaret, representing the third generation of Howards, inheriting characteristics from both Jane and Matthew, are well-balanced individuals. A FEW OF THE LESSONS THAT MAY BE DRAWN FROM THIS NOVEL An illustration of the destructiveness of wrong attitudes is found in Peyton Howard's reaction to his deformity, and the reaction of his father. Peyton, always conscious of his club foot as a child, drew into himself and brooded over his father's coldness toward him. When Jefferson talked to him with entire disregard for the infirmity, it seemed to the boy "that he had been let out of a strange dark room where he had been living alone." (Page 157) He gains further emancipation from his morbid attitude when he meets Adrienne, and she fails to look upon the foot as a disgrace. That incident alters his whole life. (Page 196ff) His father's feelings change one morning when he learns that even though Peyton looks like an aristocrat, he is a genuine democrat. (Page 210) The book offers interesting illustrations of the fact that differences of political opinion need not destroy family loyalty and affection. One of the most striking illustrations of this is the relationship between Peyton and James Howard. Even when Peyton is arrested and imprisoned because of something he had written to James, he does not believe that his brother betrayed him; and he is confident that when James learns of his dilemma, he will come to him. (Chap. 35)
The tragic consequence of words impulsively or maliciously spoken is shown by several incidents in the story. When Jane, distraught over the death of her daughter, accuses the girl's father and husband of being to blame for her untimely death, she deprives herself of the companionship of Mary's children, which would have brought her great happiness. When she lies to her grandson's sweetheart in her effort to save him from forsaking the Peyton traditions, she unwittingly causes the death of both the young lovers and heaps herself with remorse. Jane's futile efforts to direct her children's lives illustrate a common human frailty, which her sad experiences may help us to avoid. These are but a few of the many interesting aspects of The Tree of Liberty that could be studied with profit.
SIGNIFICANT QUOTATIONS
One of the marks of good literature is the striking manner in which truths are presented. The author's philosophy of life, or the philosophy of significant characters in the book, is often reflected in such passages, and it enriches our own philosophies to give attention to them. There are, in The Tree of Liberty, many passages worth careful consideration. A few of them follow:
"A man has the same right to liberty he has to life. A right that can't be taken from him."
"There is a strange idea that labor dishonors a man."
"A man must always want to be a leader."
"When discord had entered their relations, small things unnoticed before came between them. In trifles the old harmony was gone, and when real issues arose, they were in poor condition to come to an understanding."
"You worship my very shadow, but?you go your own way. And I suppose I wouldn't like you very much if you didn't."
"We who have been long separated from the soil have come to know how much sickness of mind and spirit has come from a loss of that contact."
"I believe so in work for the hands that I think without it we shrivel up our souls."
"These people knew the beauties of life that lifted man above the brute."
"Truth grows only in free discussion.... Coercion hardens error. And religion, of all things, should be jealously defended by the government from any hardening effect. Discussion must be kept free that the truth may prevail."
"Truth is the only proper and sufficient antagonist to error. True religion has nothing to fear from free debate, for truth is right and will prevail. But the debate must be kept free."
"We all believe in liberty. It's a question of kinds of liberty."
"We aim to set up a state which shall be for all men equally, none privileged, none greater than his neighbor."
"The thing we have to do now is to preserve our democracy while war goes on.... There is no greater responsibility than the responsibility for the lives of the citizens.... The right of each man to order his life cannot be sacrificed in any emergency, however dire. War, however disastrous, is temporary and the state remains. We cannot safely for the sake of war, destroy the ideals upon which the state must rest."
"This is the land our sons shall inherit. The valleys shall be their valleys.... These mountains shall be their mountains. And it's long enough and wide enough, God knows, so we can always be free if we will it free, to live our lives in our own way."
Study Helps
1. Discuss the strength given to our type of liberty by the different views as to what it should be, held by such men as Hamilton and Jefferson.
2. Enumerate some lessons, illustrated in the book, that our nation learned by the trial and error method.
3. Discuss how these lessons could be applied to situations today.
4. Point out some of the things in the book that you can apply efficiently to your own lives.
5. As a summary, discuss this topic: The Tree of Liberty has the characteristics of great literature because it gives the reader intellectual, emotional and ethical values. Illustrate. (Note: the above could be divided into three and made the basis, with the one that follows, of an entire lesson, if two books instead of three are chosen for the course.)
6. Read passages that show beauty of style.
7. Discuss other books or articles in contemporary literature with the same purpose as The Tree of Liberty?to make us aware of our type of government and its advantages.
Quotations from The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939, are reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers.

Social Service
EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 5
Aesthetic Values in Family Living (Tuesday, March 25, 1941)
IN our discussion of the aesthetic values in family living, we shall use the dictionary definition of the term "aesthetic," rather than conform to the prescribed meaning as presented by any particular one of the various philosophers who have discussed the term. We shall use the term in its broadest sense; i.e., aesthetic?pertaining to beauty; sensitive to the beautiful; possessing a cultivated, artistic taste; the beauty in harmony and consistency. We shall also include love in our meaning of aesthetic, as the twin sister of beauty.
The world in which we live, both the physical and social aspects of it, is beautiful only to those who see the beautiful in it. One person views a gorgeous sunset and is thereby inspired to strive for a deeper appreciation of other rich things of life; while another person views such a sunset as just another daily disappearance of the sun. One person may enjoy the privilege of a true and genuine companionship of mate or of friend, which will inspire him to live on his highest level and help him to feel that life is beautiful indeed; while another person may look upon such a companionship merely as his due and for his convenience, never realizing the value, the meaning, or the blessing of such a relationship.
True, this is because people look at things differently. But why do they look at things so differently? The likes and dislikes, the tastes, the standards of value, the degree of appreciation for beauty which people have, come largely as a result of the socialization process. It may seem somewhat trite to say once more that the family is the most important socializing agency; but when we pause to consider the extent of family influence, we realize that the triteness of the statement is overpowered by its truth. The family actually does determine, to a large extent, the likes, dislikes, tastes, attitudes, either good or bad, of family members.
Again, at this point, it seems justifiable to emphasize the power of example in comparison with the power of precept in establishing these values. It is impossible to force a child or an adult to appreciate love and beauty. Only guided contact with the beautiful and with those who exemplify a cultivated appreciation for the beautiful will develop this phase of the art of living. The parent who tells a child to do a certain thing, and at the same time does something himself that is contrary to what he has told the child, is not likely to make much of an impression on that child. It was the English poet, Quarles, who said, "Thou canst rebuke in children what they see practiced in thee..... Till reason be ripe, examples direct more than precepts.... Such as is thy behavior before thy children's faces, such is theirs behind thy back." One more thought taken from Balguy: "Whatever parent gives his children good instruction and sets them at the same time a bad example, may be considered as bringing them food in one hand and poison in the other."
MR. AND Mrs. C, parents of two sons and a daughter, thought of an excellent plan (if it had worked) of stimulating an appreciation for beauty through creating an interest in flowers. The plan was a practical one which included beauty in the house, the yard, and even affected the community; it afforded an opportunity for development that would be a source of pleasure throughout the life of each member of the family. Mr. C. and each child were given a certain plot of ground in the family's own large yard upon which he was to be responsible for raising flowers. Each was to be free to use his own individuality in the choice of flowers raised and in the arrangement of his garden. After the gardens were planted, a schedule was worked out, according to the kind of flowers grown, whereby each one was to provide flowers for the dining table for a period of one week at a time. Mrs. C cared for house plants and, therefore, did not have an outside garden, but she was to have a plant in bloom appropriate for the table when her turn came. Space does not permit a discussion of the possibilities for aesthetic development inherent in this plan. Unfortunately, only partial success was realized. The sons, Ray and Tom, showed a consistent lack of interest after their father defaulted the second time in his contract to provide flowers for the table. By the first of August, Helen was the only one who had a garden from which she could add beauty to the dining table.
In every family hardly a day passes in which opportunities do not arise for the development of the aesthetic element. Probably one of the most important reasons why the great majority of these opportunities are passed by, is because so many of us do not value highly enough the ability to appreciate beauty. And this, no doubt, is true because we have failed to realize the great happiness and richness of life enjoyed by those who have cultivated the art of responding to the beauty with which they are surrounded.
Let us consider how two different families handled the problem of redecorating their house. The T family reached the decision that it was necessary to redecorate their house. The idea was first suggested by the two children, Ella and Robert, who were in high school and who felt that the house was too shabby to be attractive to their friends. After Mr. T had agreed that the work should be done, he announced to Mrs. T that there was a certain sum of money available and that he did not expect to have to be bothered about the selection of materials?that was up to Mrs. T. After Mrs. T had spent many, many hours looking at wall paper, paint and draperies, she asked Robert if he would not like to make a trip to town with her to help make final selections. His reply was, "Why no, why should I do that? Dad said that was your work." Then Mrs. T asked Ella the same question and received a similar answer, "Why, I don't know anything about such things, and, besides, I don't want to be blamed if the others aren't pleased." When the job was completed, not one member of the family expressed hearty approval, nor did they hesitate to register disappointment with color or pattern or texture, as the case might be.
In the N family, also, there was a son and daughter of high school age, and they were faced with the problem of redecorating their home with a limited amount of money. Each member of the family was vitally interested in expressing his or her ideas as to possible color schemes, etc., and every idea presented was given due consideration. Finally, at dinner one evening, Mrs. N said, "Lucile, you are taking a course in art, why not ask your teacher for some suggestions?" "Oh! I'd love to," replied Lucile. "Why not invite the teacher and his wife to have dinner with us one evening soon, and then we could all have the advantage of hearing what he might suggest," said Mr. N. The idea was immediately carried out. The evening proved a delightful and profitable one. Suffice it to say, when the redecorating job was completed, everyone was delighted with the results, and each felt that he was at least a contributing factor in its success. This was partly due to the fact that after Mrs. N had spent many hours selecting materials and had eliminated all but two choices in each case, each member of the family was anxious to take part in the final selection. May we add that today Lucile is about to begin her senior year in college, majoring in interior decoration, and she says it was the pleasure she derived from assisting in redecorating their home that decided her choice of a major.
In evaluating the two cases above, aside from the possibilities for developing the aesthetic element, we must not forget that every satisfying activity in which the family engages as a group promotes family unity and stability.
If daughter is to have a new dress or "big brother" a new suit of clothes, why should not the color and style best suited to the particular individual be an interesting subject of conversation during the dinner hour, thus offering all members of the family an opportunity to derive benefit from the discussion?
WITH grand opera, symphony concerts, and drama in our homes by merely turning a dial, what a pity for one to grow up devoid of an appreciation for the best music and drama, that formerly were accessible only to those living in a great metropolis. How poverty stricken is the soul who has no love for music and other arts, and how rich and full is the life of one who has learned to enjoy all the beauty that surrounds him.
One family made a game of listening to the radio. The mother and father were both musicians?not musicians who could perform on any instrument, but intelligent and appreciative listeners who were anxious to give their five children the same source of pleasure which had meant so much to them. A record was kept of regular radio programs to which all the family wished to listen. When two or more members of the family were present and they wished to turn on the radio, the one whose day it was to exercise the privilege of selecting the program did so. But this privilege carried the responsibility of presenting to the other members of the family, at an opportune time, three well-thought-out reasons why he had chosen these programs. The group was free to criticize the reasons given. The youngest members, six-year-old twins, Jack and Jill, played their part in the game in an amusing manner. Jill always wanted what Mother liked, and Jack followed Daddy's choice. When they were asked for their reasons, they could give almost verbatim the reasons they had heard their parents give. Of course, the game was carried on seriously by each, but, at the same time, in the spirit of fun.
Space does not permit a discussion of all the different arts, but the same principles apply in developing an appreciation and love for each.
A sense of the beauty involved in the expression of the finest, highest type of love can be best developed in the child if he is subject to an example of such by his parents. Many parents fail to realize how sensitive children are to the manner in which one mate shows his love for the other. There is, indeed, "beauty all around when there's love at home."
In addition to the spiritual value of prayer, there is also an aesthetic value in the family group engaging in prayer. Prayer appeals to our finer sense and feelings. There is a subtle response of one's aesthetic self to prayer. Beauty, love and prayer are all important cornerstones in the rich life.
Do you belong to the large group of parents who often say, "What can I do to develop the aesthetic element in my child, since I know nothing about music, painting, or literature?" Why not plan this winter to set aside even one hour a week when the family can read together such books as The Story of World Literature, by John Macy, Krehbiel's How To Listen to Music, Thomas E. Talmage's The Story of Architecture In America, or Art, Artist and Layman by Arthur Pope. You will be surprised what one hour of such study will do to add wealth, in the form of an appreciation for beauty, to your daily living, and to what a great extent the so-called "humdrum" of life will be substituted by a vitalized response to the beauties of this world in which we live.
Problems and Questions
1. Give five suggestions as to how the movies might be used as a factor in developing the aesthetic element. Suggest five ways in which they have a negative effect.
2. Make a list of all the assets in your community that might be utilized for developing an appreciation for any of the arts.
3. Give an example of a case in which family functioning has been responsible for stimulating in a member of the group a specific interest in some form of beauty.

Mission
LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired)
Lesson XV
The Saints Find a New Home in the West (Tuesday, March 18, 1942)
WHEN the Mormon people, under the leadership of the Twelve Apostles, left Illinois, in the winter of 1845-46, it was the intention to go direct to the Rocky Mountains. At least, the pioneer group of one hundred or more men would press on to the new home. But an event occurred which prevented this, and so the pioneer company did not leave until the following year. That event was the call by the Federal Government of a battalion of Mormons, to help in the war with Mexico. This was in the summer of 1846. More than five hundred men volunteered; and in due course, they marched to the West Coast. The work performed by this Mormon Battalion forms one of the most interesting chapters in Western history; but we shall not follow these soldiers, because our concern is with the main body of the Church. However, we shall have occasion to mention them later in our story.
This call for soldiers postponed the journey of the pioneer company. To take five hundred of the young and able-bodied men from the trekking Saints, meant that some of the teams would be without drivers, or that they would have to be driven by boys or women. It meant, too, that a great many families would be left without a provider, that these would have to be taken care of by others. No doubt President Polk had been actuated by good motives in calling for this battalion. He thought, as a good many others thought, that the Mormons were bound for the West Coast. But they were not. They were bound for the Rockies. So it worked a hardship on the Saints. If they had been going to the Pacific, the call would have helped them, since it would be taking some five hundred persons west at the expense of the Government.
IT was not, therefore, till April, 1847, that the pioneer company left Winter Quarters for the West. This group consisted of 148 persons in all?143 men, 3 women, and 2 children. This was the number that left Elkhorn, a few miles distant from the river. The company carried seeds of various kinds and farming implements, so that in the new land they might plant something for reaping in the fall, for no time could be lost. Just before the company started, Elders John Taylor and Parley P. Pratt came from England with a set of surveying and other scientific instruments. These, Elder Orson Pratt, who was in the pioneer company, was able to use, for he was a surveyor as well as a preacher of the Gospel. The company was divided into large and small groups, for convenience, protection, and order in traveling.
The route followed by the pioneers was along the Platte River to Fort Laramie. Here they crossed the stream and continued over the Oregon Trail to Fort Bridger. Leaving the Trail, they struck off to Echo Canyon, over Big and Little Mountain into what is now called Emigration Canyon, and into the valley of the Great Salt Lake. They were on the way from April 5 to July 24, 1847.
For measuring distance in crossing the plains, a convert, William Clayton, had made an instrument called the roadometer. This was fastened to a wheel and measured the distance covered by marking the number of rotations of the wheel. The pioneers had covered about eleven hundred miles in 110 days. They did not travel on Sundays.
More than one hundred and forty-eight persons, however, entered the Salt Lake Valley in this first company. A little beyond Fort Laramie, now in Wyoming, the pioneer group was joined by seventeen men and women who had not been in Winter Quarters at all. They were Mississippi Saints, who had wintered in Pueblo with some members of the Mormon Battalion who were sick. In five wagons, they had traveled from that Spanish town, trying to overtake the pioneers. This brought the group to 165 persons, less one?Elder Amasa M. Lyman, who had gone to Pueblo to settle a difficulty there. There were other shiftings of the figures. In this group of seventeen Mississippi Saints were six women. Hence, not three women, but nine women, entered the Salt Lake Valley in this pioneer company. The first man in the company to enter the Valley was Orson Pratt, one of the Apostles, and the second was Erastus Snow.
THIS was no ordinary group of men and women who had entered the valley of the Great Salt Lake in search of a home for tens of thousands of other men and women. The Mormon trek to the West was a religious pilgrimage. We must never forget that, for it gives us a clue to the entire movement, as well as a key to the understanding of what happened in Utah later on, after the Saints began to build their homes. In Illinois, the Mormon people could have scattered out over the country instead of settling together. If they had done that, they would not have been molested by their neighbors anywhere. But they did not scatter out. Why? Because they had been commanded by the Lord to gather into one place. It was religion, then, that kept them together, and it was religion that sent them into the Rocky Mountains.
On the way to their new home in the West, the religious spirit was uppermost in the minds of the leaders. However, some members of the camp engaged in frivolity, card playing, and dancing. President Young, on one occasion, said:
"I had rather risk myself among the savages with ten men who are men of faith, men of mighty prayer, men of God, than to be with a whole camp when they forget the Lord and turn their hearts to folly and wickedness. Yes, I would rather be alone, and I am resolved not to go any farther with the camp unless you will consent to humble yourselves before the Lord and serve him.... How would you look if they should know your conduct and ask you what you did when you went out to seek Zion and find a resting place for the Saints where the Kingdom of God could be reared and her banners unfurled for the nations to gather to?"
After that, there was more sobriety in the camp.
THE new home was anything but attractive to the women in the company. The men were better satisfied. One of the women, on reaching the Valley and finding that it was the new home, said that she would rather go on for another thousand miles. This sentiment was echoed by other women in the group. This was probably because the place was so desolate. Scarcely a tree was in sight; the ground was dry and dusty, and the sun poured its heat upon everything. The only human figures there were a few cricket-eating Indians who did not have energy enough to get better food.
The men thought it was a pretty good place to make a home. This was very likely because they saw what could be made of it through hard work and intelligence. Brigham Young, when he first saw it with his natural eyes, had said, "This is the place." Wilford Woodruff wrote in his journal: "I was joyfully disappointed." He had evidently expected an even more dreary scene.
It was Saturday when the last of the company descended into the Valley. The next day, therefore, they held a meeting. With the wide, copper sky overhead, the lake on the west shimmering in the sun, and the tall mountains just east, the first hymns were sung, the first preaching done, and the first resolutions formed for a better life, in that lonely spot.
Early on Monday some exploring was done, to uncover the good and bad features of the place. Already some men had plowed several acres and planted some potatoes. The men still thought it was a good place to make their home. Meanwhile, Orson Pratt surveyed the new city-to-be, with the instruments brought from England. It was officially named Great Salt Lake City. Then, in August, most of the men, headed by Brigham Young, left on the return trip. They went to get their families. The journey back was a terrible one. Starvation and Indians came nearly wiping out men and animals.
Questions
1. Why did the Saints wish to go farther west than the Missouri? How far did they go?
2. Tell about the journey.
3. In what spirit did the pioneers make the journey? Tell what President Young said. What did the pioneers think of the new home?
4. Describe it.
5. Why would the returning men have little food?
Read Section 136 of the Doctrine and Covenants, for the general plan of travel by the migrating companies.
Hymn to be Sung or Read
It is suggested that the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints" be sung or read. This hymn was written by William Clayton, between the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers on the trek West, and sung frequently on the way to the Salt Lake Valley. Brother William Clayton was English by birth. He was converted by the first missionaries to England, and became secretary to the Prophet. The four stanzas of the song are knit together by a series of thoughts: first, we should be joyful, in spite of our hard lot; second, there is no reason to mourn, if we do our part; third, we shall find our new home in the West; and fourth, if we die, all will be well.
Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.
RECOMPENSE
Glamorous beauty is mine, today, If I have eyes to see: Filagreed silver on frost-covered hedges, Glory of gold on autumn-crowned ledges, Faceted jewels in a dew-spangled grove, Radiant rapture in the eyes that I love.
Glorious melodies are mine, today, If I have ears to hear: Symphonies played to the rhythm of woodlands, The soft, sleepy murmur of feathering birds, The soughing of wind-flutes, the flow of the river, Child voices calling in quick, lilting words.
Joyous living is mine, today, If I have hands to serve: Relieving the pain of a fever-wan wastrel Till dark eyes of pain that follow me, know A glint of new hope; and all who are weary Find surcease from sorrow wherever I go.
Gentle humility is mine, today, If I have lips to teach: The way of repentance (for I, too, have faltered) Of love, and of faith, and humanity's needs; To know that God lives, and those in His service Shall find life illumined by the light of kind deeds.
?LaRene King Bleecker.
 The Relief Society Magazine Drive
THE gratifying results of the 1940 Magazine drive are direct evidence of the loyalty of Relief Society women to the Society. The drive this year exceeded all expectations and is the most successful drive yet held, from every point of view. The subscription list is the largest in the history of the Magazine, reports were promptly received and legibly and accurately prepared; the spirit with which the drive was conducted was one of willingness and enthusiasm. The General Board appreciates the willing acceptance of changes made in the Magazine rulings and the appreciation expressed for the revisions made in receipt books, order and report forms, and for the business-reply envelopes provided.
There are 519 wards and branches appearing on the honor roll, each of which secured Magazine subscriptions equal to 75 percent or more of their total Relief Society membership (active, honorary, inactive). There are 358 Magazine representatives who will receive a one-year subscription to the Magazine as a personal award for securing Magazine subscriptions equal to 75 percent or more of the ward or branch membership with a minimum of at least 25 subscriptions. The names of 42 stakes appear on the honor roll. While only one mission, the Eastern States, is included, the splendid work done by branches in all of the missions, many of which are included on the honor roll, is very gratifying. One or two stakes failed to send in reports of the activity. We trust that the results of this year's drive will stimulate them so that next year their reports will be received on time and they will be among those honored.
Magazine work is a year-around activity. We suggest that representatives now make it a point to keep the subscription list up from month to month, being careful to check when each subscription expires and endeavoring to secure a renewal at once. Magazine representatives who thus proceed find the work of the fall drive greatly reduced.
The General Board sincerely thanks all who have made this year's drive such an outstanding success?Relief Society officers, Magazine representatives, and the thousands of Magazine subscribers. We hope that all will enjoy the Magazine in the months to come.
We publish herewith the honor roll in recognition of those Relief Societies and their Magazine representatives reporting a subscription list equal to 75 percent or more of their total membership. The honor roll is divided into classifications according to the number of Relief Society members enrolled in the various wards or branches. The four wards or branches in each classification securing the highest percentages are especially recognized on the honor roll.
HONOR ROLL FOUR HIGHEST PERCENTAGES
GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or Over) Stake or Ward or Enroll Subscriptions Magazine Mission Branchment No. Pct. Representative Utah 'Provo Fourth 149 245 164 Flora Buggert Emigration Twenty-first 100 145 145 Josephine Affleck Grant Hillcrest 104 127 122 Viola Cahoon Granite Nibley Park 101 124% 116 Emma Armstrong GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive), Emigration Twelfth 60 152 253 Elon Calderwood Salt Lake Fourteenth 83 129 155 Bashua Chapman Davis Phoenix Phoenix Third 81 123 152 Grace Whipple Wells Columbus 89 128 144 Margaret Allred 860 Stake or Mission Moapa Australian Mission Big Horn Western States Mis. Stake or Mission Utah Emigration Grant Granite Ensign Granite Ogden Woodruff Wasatch Kolob Phoenix Granite Provo Salt Lake San Juan Weber Wells Wells Granite Pocatello Uintah Big Horn Granite Liberty Palmyra Stake or Mission Emigration Salt Lake Phoenix Wells Ogden RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Ward or Branch North Las Vegas Hurstville Branch Worland Branch Gallup Branch Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. 59 =i] 24 218 48 209 29 207 WARDS 100 PER CENT OR OVER GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or Over) Ward or Branch Provo Fourth Twenty-first Hillcrest Nibley Park Twentieth Forest Dale Ogden Fourth Evanston First Heber Third Springville First Phoenix Second Lincoln Provo Fifth Seventeenth Moab Hooper Belvedere Ivins Hawthorne Pocatello Fifth Vernal First Lovell West Richards First Salem Enroll Subscriptions ment 149 100 104 101 111 123 120 117 113 120 130 116 181 101 115 131 103 166 146 104 167 132 140 114 No. 245 145 127 124% 128 136 132 129 120 126 14s 134 119 186 103 117 134 105 168 148 105 167 132 140 114 Pct. 164 145 122 116 115 111 110 110 106 105 104 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 WARDS 100 PER CENT OR OVER GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Ward or Branch Twelfth Fourteenth Phoenix Third Columbus Ogden Thirteenth Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. 152 253 129 155 123 152 128 144 137 140 Magazine Representative Irene Shillman Ethel Parton Elizabeth Nielson Eulla Davis Magazine Representative Flora Buggert Josephine Affleck Viola Cahoon Emma Armstrong Jane Dykes Lucille Bennion Lena Hansen Ella Crandall Jane Phillips Annie K. Moulton La Vera G. Curtis Minerva Gillette Mabel Flandro Verna J. Black Julia G. Miller Edna Allen Florence Naisbitt Violet Ostler Alice Gibson Clela Jorgenson Jean B. Hendersen Rosina Stone Bertha M. Hile Irene Irvine Josephine Pett Lottie D. Peterson Magazine Representative Elon Calderwood Bashua Chapman Davis Grace Whipple Margaret Allred Itha G. Bieler MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Mount Ogden Carbon Box. Elder North Davis North Weber Weiser North Weber So. Los Angeles Idaho Falls Mount Ogden Oakland Wells Timpanogos Boise California Mission Phoenix So. Los Angeles South Los Angeles Timpanogos Emigration Ensign Garfield Grant Highland Idaho Falls Maricopa West Jordan Moapa Big Horn Maricopa Emigration Malad Chicago No. Central Sts. Mis. So. Los Angeles Los Angeles Pasadena Pocatello Bonneville Grant Weber Los Angeles West Jordan Emigration Star Valley Washington Ensign GROUP B?Continued Ward or Branch Ogden Eighteenth Price Third Brigham Second Layton Ogden Third Weiser Ogden Sixteenth Manchester Idaho Falls Fifth Mt. Ogden Dimond McKay Pleasant Grove First Boise Third Sparks Branch Phoenix First Huntington Park Vermont Pleasant Grove Second Thirteenth Ensign Antimony Central Park Stratford Idaho Falls Sixth Mesa Third Bingham Overton Burlington Mesa Fourth Eleventh Malad First Milwaukee Minneapolis Branch South Gate Arlington Belvedere Pocatello Sixth Emigration South Gate Ogden Nineteenth Wilshire Riverton First Twenty-seventh South Eighteenth Harvard Huntsville Afton North Washington North Eighteenth Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. 132 139 131 135 108% 128 124 127 111 126 69 126 65 125 go 125 111 123 84 122 82 121 79 120 89 119 65 118 75 ae 83 ee 108 117 69 117 69 117 87 116 101 116 58 116 7% 114 68% 114 81 113 8 11 6 at 74 112 55 110 92 110 106 109 71 109 56 108 66 108 78 108 56 106 76 106 70 106 100 105 63 105 84 105 85 104 55 104 100 103 100% 103 102 103 80 103 82 103 73 103 94 102 861 Magazine Representative Lucille Wallwork Junie Allred Sarah H. Horsley Grace R. Forbes Martha M. Burnett Hazel Chandler Ellen S. Montierth Arvilla Vogel Tla Sams Ida M. Ferrin Grace Hawkins Rebecca Jones Emma Harper Florence Pruett Helen Piggott Leatha A. Marion Rosine Bauer Claire Selander Effa Williams Alma Erickson Ellen Smith Mary K. Riddle Hedy Davies Anne Gumey and Florence Clark Phoebe Peterson Nina Stapley Jane Spendiove Jennie Whitly Dorothy Yorgason Grace Burton May Etta Bekkemellon Esther Hess Elise Schuette Barbara Bentson Leota Barrett Naomi Whale Lueretia S. Davis Maud R. Ballard Lillie Woodland Ida Von Nordeck Edith Worthington Elizabeth London Myrtle Foulger Anna M. Sandstrom Isabella R. Price Hannah Watkins Dorothy Wright Ellen W. McKay Louise Frame Dena V. Billings Verda Kletting 862 Stake or Mission Maricopa Moapa Salt Lake ' Highland Long Beach Uintah Weber West Jordan East Jordan Emigration Franklin Idaho Falls Juarez Long Beach Ogden; South Los Angeles South Los Angeles Star Valley Uintah Stake or Mission Moapa Australian Mission Big Horn Western States Mis. Big Horn Western States Mis. Texas Mission Eastern States Mis. California Mission Blaine California Mission Washington Big Horn Nevada Pasadena Youn; No. Idaho Falls Oakland Uintah Australian Mission N. W. States Mission Sacramento RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 GROUP B?Continued "Ward or Branch Mesa Fifth Logandale Capitol Hill Bryan Long Beach Vernal Second Ogden Twenty-second Riverton Second Draper First University Preston Second Ammon Juarez Wilmington Ogden Twentieth Matthews Maywood Freedom Maeser Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Go 102 53. ?102 66 102 82 101 87% 101 75 101 71 101 70 101 62 100 83 100 72 100 98 100 51 100 50 100 98 100 65 100 59 100 67 100 66 100 WARDS 100 PER CENT OR OVER GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Ward or Branch North Las Vegas Hurstville Branch Worland Branch Gallup Branch Belfry Branch Carson Branch Kilgore Branch Albany Branch? Schenectady Section Loyalton Branch Sun Valley Avenal Branch Fairview Basin Branch Ruth Baldwin Park Kirtland Highland Maxwell Park Tridell Bankstown Branch Cut Bank Branch Sacramento No. Western Sts. Mis. Allendale Branch Wasatch Center Enrollment. Subscriptions No. Pct. 59 227] 24 218 48 209 29 207 19 190 13 186 9 180 10 167 13 163 8 160 25 156 25 156 28 152 5) Mai) 25 147 50 147 54 14 40% 145 54 142 28 140 14 140 63 140 33138 29 138 Magazine Representative Rozella Hancock Lillian Adams Anna S. D. Johnson Ethel Reed Ethel E. Davis Nora Cook Martha van Braak Blanch Myers Florence Sjoblom Ida C. Browning Stella Paton Chustie Heath Mildred Farnsworth Ada Pakin Mattie H. Manning Elizabeth Bowen Florence Kuffer Martha Brog Mable Ashby Magazine Representative Irene Shillman Ethel Parton Elizabeth Nielson Eulla Davis Mary Youst Essie Pope Mrs. John Dailey Elaine Worthen Myrtle Bell Mrs. Vern McClallan, Mrs. Welch Thelma Anderson Mary Avey Lova Kinghom Marjorie Fackrell Ruby A. Robinson Harriet Foutz Ethel D. Lees Irene Schatz Nellie Merkley Rose Burnett Mary Lawrence Zella E. DeVault Tlene Magnussen Lila Christensen MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Phoenix California Mission Weber Woodruff Idaho, Juarez So. Los Angeles Mount Ogden Taylor Australian Mission Malad Wasatch West Jordan Boise Nevada Oakland Pasadena Blackfoot Blaine San Francisco West Jordan Eastern States Mis. Snowflake West Jordan Maricopa California Mission Long Beach Lost River Texas Mission No. Idaho Falls Seattle Mount Ogden Union Gridley Western States Mis. Bear Lake California Mission Long Beach Sacramento Western States Mis. Box Elder Riverside Snowflake Texas Mission San Fernando San Francisco Texas Mission GROUP C?Continued Ward or Branch Glendale Merced Branch Clinton Hilliard Bancroft Pacheco Grant Uintah Tyrells Lake Branch Melbourne Branch Holbrook Charleston Herriman Boise Second Elko Martinez Monrovia Pingree Fairfield Redwood City Lark Albany Branch? Albany Section Linden Copperton Pine Reno Branch Fullerton Leslie Port Arthur Branch Milo Bellingham Montello Baker _ Grass Valley Paonia Fish Haven Redding Branch Huntington Beach Roseville Hanna Branch Evans Center McNary Houston Branch Elysian Park San Francisco Albany Branch Enrollment 19 M7] 43 20 38 9 25 20 10 21 21 41 47 48 34 34 26 27 28 23 Oy 4 12 48 Subscriptions No. Pet. 26 137 23 135 58135 27 135 51 134 12 133 33 Be 26 130 13 130 27 wey) 27 129 53 Lek) 60% 129 61 127 43 Ley] 43 bay 33 net) 34 126 36 126 2 126 -, 126 5 125 15 125 60 125 21 124 39% = 123 32 123 28 122 11 122 29 121 23 121 18 120 48 120 38 119 19 118 41 117 28 117 28 117 41 117 14 117 23 aE) 46 115 15 115 31 115 49 114 56 114 8 114 863 Magazine Representative Julia S. Kremer Nora Johnson Wanda Beus Naomi Lym Ruby Mabey Mabel A. Cluff Marie Jenkins Verna Peterson Clara E. Selk Katie Hokin Letitia T. Willie Mary A. Casper Agnes Dansie Irene Hayes Faun S. Noren ? Lillian Abbot Martha E. Hanks Sarah E. Cammach Annie C. Thurber Charlotte Showers Mary Hilda Grabner Emily Brooks Rebecca Harris Gwen C. Knudsen Ina P. Hunt Viola Jensen Francella E. Newman Belva Jones Mrs. A. Cunningham Emily Palmer Ella M. Petrie Nina Cummins Nettie Shurtliff Nora M. Medlyn Carroll Martin Rosella Smith Agnes Dastrup Grace Brown Nellie Boller Eva Smith Summer Alice A. Buxton Eva Gledhill Celia Gardner Viola Stone Zelda Shipley Sarah L, Pomeroy Georgia Murphy 864 Stake or Mission Bannock Chicago Eastern States Mis. San Francisco St. Johns Texas Mission Washington Alpine California Mission Washington Australian Mission Duchesne St. George San Bernardino Southern States Mis. South Los Angeles Union Box Elder Lyman Maricopa Oakland Pasadena Seattle California Mission Emery Oakland Raft River So. Los Angeles Big Hom California No. Western Sts. Mis. San Bernardino Western States Mis. Western States Mis. Moapa North Weber Raft River California Mission Carbon Moapa Pasadena Texas Mission Bannock Burley Burley California Mission San Francisco So. Los Angeles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 GROUP C?Continued Ward or Branch Lago Racine Altoona Branch Sunset Vernon Wichita Falls Branch Chevy Chase Highland San Diego Branch Arlington Woollahra Branch Arcadia Veyo Ontario Tallahassee Branch Firestone Park Pendleton Harper Superior Gilbert Hayward Eastmont University Douglas Branch Rochester Elmhurst Sublett Downey Penrose North Park Branch Kellogg Branch Victorville Fruita Branch Rapid City Branch Caliente West Warren Moulton Prescott Second Br. Hiawatha Pioche Montebello Austin Branch Thatcher Pella Springdale Chino Branch San Jose Walnut Park Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. 27 113 18 113 9 13 54 113 17 113 9 113 53 113 38 112 37 112 47 112 10 111 30 111 20 111 21 111 10 111 30 111 21 111+ 22 110 33 110 34 110 34 110 54 110 44 110 48 109 12 109 47 es) 12 109 24 109 14 108 39 108 26 108 13 108 13-108 13 108 48 107 15 107 15 107 36 106 43% 106 36 106 37 106 18 106 43 105 46 105 32% 105 20 105 40 105 46 105 Magazine Representative Dorothy Steele Martha Hubert Blanche Ruggles Millie Johnson Ella L. Grau Mrs. Henry L. Peterson Zina W. Thompson Louella Binns Etta M. Alkire Mina L. Whittle Mavis Burroughs Rose D. Gilbert Esther Chadburn Tracie G. Bushey Florence Ewing Billie Winkler Emily Hart Anna May Leora Hansen Donnet Fuller Leora Ellis Elsie L. Ashlock Elva Rousell Gladys Huish Cleo Olsen LaVina Smithen Sylvia Olsen Harriet Rose Delilah Mae Wasdon Vilate Bradley Mrs, Vernon Higbee Margaret Robison Alice Lang Elizabeth Thomas Jessie Roper May East Julia H. Clark Veda Scott Mary Eardley Ora Price Josephine Whitaker Gertrude Braswell Hattie Hogan Alice Freer Hattie Marchant Effie May Despain Eliza J. Horsfield Trene Jolly MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Yellowstone Eastern States Mis. Juarez Lost River Ogden Box Elder Long Beach Oakland San Fernando Burley Long Beach Phoenix San Francisco Bear River Big Horn Big Horn Blaine California Mission California Mission California Mission California Mission California Mission Chicago Duchesne Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Idaho Falls Malad Maricopa Montpelier Montpelier Nevada Nevada North Sanpete No. Western Sts. Mis. No. Western Sts. Mis. San Francisco Seattle Snowflake Uintah Weber Weiser Western States Mis. GROUP C?Continued Ward or Branch Twin Groves Pittsburg Branch Chuichupa Lost River Pleasant View Perry North Long Beach Richmond North Hollywood Unity Santa Ana Phoenix Fourth Balboa Rosette Cody Branch Tonia Richfield Geyserville Branch Hydesville Branch Salinas Branch Santa Barbara Branch White Water Branch University Utahn Canandaigua Branch Geneva Branch Malone Branch Ritchie Daniels Lehi Geneva Wardboro Ely Carlin Milburn The Dalles Branch Havre Branch Palo Alto Tacoma Central Heber Davis Kanesville Fruitvale Branch Trinidad Branch Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. 45 105 24 104 24 104 24 104 48 104 41 103 48% 103 31 103 38 103 44 102 48 102 45 102 47 102 12 100 22 100 17 100 28 100 6 100 12 100 14 100 21 100 31 100 42 100 23 100 12 100 5 100 1 100 25 100 13 100 38 100 24 100 17 100 84 100 19 100 16 100 18 100 5 100 41 100 47 100 21 100 31 100 24 100 13 100 4 100 865 Magazine Representative Selina Richards Virginia Birtcher Cora Judd Evelyn Pearson Alice W. McLane Ida Y. Thorne Alvarda Nielson Auguste Morley Louisa Phippen Juliana G. Nielson Ruby B. Martin Belle Herndon Elda Stewart Edna Palmer Ethel Brailsford Maggie M. Beal Uvada Brown Wanafay Sanders Urilda Robinson Ida L, Jones Louise Hoberlitz Ethel Gardner Ingeborg Friberg Ruth Broadhead Nellie Lodge Helen Williams Mildred Breece Ruby D. Bean Louise Gilman Lola Williams Rosetta Teuscher Eva Dalrymple May Probert Charlotte S. Ferguson Rebecca Stewart Frances Palacek Mary Primm Myra M. Thulin Astrid M. Kennedy Elsie Webb Ida Bowthorp Aleen H. Hanson Sophia Ivie Janet McKeown 866 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 WARDS 75 PER CENT TO 99 PER CENT INCLUSIVE GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or Over) Stake or Mission Maricopa Big Hom Cache Maricopa Provo Ogden Big Hom Palmyra Ogden Bonneville North Sanpete Pocatello Highland Highland Wasatch Wells Ogden Burley Provo Deseret North Sanpete Pocatello Kolob Ward or Branch Mesa First Cowley Logan Fourth Mesa Second Provo First Ogden Sixth Lovell Spanish Fork Second Ogden Eighth LeGrand Spring City Pocatello Second Highland Park Edgehill Heber First McKinley North Ogden Burley Second Manavu Delta First Mt. Pleasant South Pocatello Third Springville Second Enrollment 113 120 173 109 111 102 130 100 109 110 131 102 111 123 111 103 124 120 144 109 137 132 102 Subscriptions No. Pet. Uy) 95 U3) 94 162 94 100 92 100 go go 88 111 85 85 85 92 84 92 83 109 83 85 83 go 82 994% 81 88 79 81 79 97 78 92 77 111 77 83 76 100 76 100 76 77 75 Magazine Representative Rachel Johnson Leone Fowler Rachel Fuhriman Lydia Earl Rosa Ann Jones Gertrude Hayes Dorothy Vaught Pearl Cloward Ada V. Taylor Matilda Hicken Nell Nyberg Florence Wright Effie Chipman Gail Clayton Amy Cummock Verna Epperson Melinda Weeks Louise B. Ellis Lenora Thompson Edith Newton Phoebe Bills Phyllis Truscott Louie Richardson Florence W. Simkins WARDS 75 PER CENT TO 99 PER CENT INCLUSIVE GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Stake or Mission Bear Lake Twin Falls Weber Moapa Rigby Utah Mount Ogden Hyrum Salt Lake Cottonwood Twin Falls San Francisco Taylor Twin Falls Wells Kanab Shelley Ward or Branch St. Charles Twin Falls Second Ogden Eleventh Las Vegas Menan Provo Sixth Ogden Fifth Hyrum Second Twenty-second Taylorsville Twin Falls First Mission Raymond First Buhl Wells Kanab South Goshen Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. 72 99 78 99 96 99 95 98 gl 96 86 96 72 95 53 93 7o 93 62 91 67 gl 47 go 78 go 53 ) 68% 90 59 89 57 89 Magazine Representative Alice B. Rich Helma Bailey Catherine Rose La Prele Fields Roberta Keller Jane B. Evans Mary Smith Flossie Peterson Alma Laxman Addie Garringer Lenore Carroll Mary A. Young Fannie Litchfield Ophelia Cox Berdean Grotopas Annie Adams Nellie Roose MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Idaho Falls Montpelier Snowflake Idaho Falls Mount Ogden Ogden Palmyta Liberty Bear Lake Weber Gunnison Malad Sacramento South Davis Timpanogos Franklin Nampa Salt Lake Sevier Union Weber Alpine Alpine Wasatch Bonneville Grant Moapa San Bernardino Taylor Tooele Wasatch Weber Inglewood Logan Los Angeles Portneuf St. George Union Wasatch Carbon Logan Lost River Malad No. Western Sts. Mis. Oakland Gridley GROUP B?Continued Ward or Branch Idaho Falls Third Montpelier First Joseph City Idaho Falls Second Ogden Seventeenth Ogden Seventh Spanish Fork Fifth Liberty Laketown Ogden Second Gunnison Malad Third Sutter West Bountiful Lindon Fairview Nampa Second Nineteenth Richfield Third LaGrande Second Ogden First American Fork First American Fork Fourth Midway First Garden Park Grandview Bunkerville San Bernardino Magrath First Grantsville Second Midway Second Roy Santa Monica Logan Eleventh Hollywood McCammon Santa Clara Union Heber Second Green River Providence First Salmon Malad Second Great Falls Branch Berkeley Gnidley EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 867 Magazine Representative Mary L. Pogge Cleone Bagley Stella Cummins Sylvia Saben Mary Bertagrole Jessie Woods Kate Anderson Verna Jones Oreta Satterthwaite Elleneara Hunter Violet Bond Orilla Wilkensen Jemima Opperman Ellen Bendit Chloe M. Arbuckle Eda Allred Annie Gilbert Mary E. Dixon Elizabeth Thomas Everdina C. Winkel Mabel Higgins Margaret Vernieuw Laura Dunkley Elizabeth Mills Ada Bonner Rena Bjorklund Zolla Eggers Tamzen Adams Ruth Irwin Hazel Cook Glenna Milward Susana Probst Jane Hyden Bertha Jones 'Amy Affleck Charlotte S. O'Connor Gladys Brown Eliza H. Gubler Clarice Kohler Esther Carter Eva Hunt Clara Astle Emma Loyed Bacus Margaret J. Richards Nedra Edmunds Charlotte Cummings Florence Jensen B68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 GROUP B?Continued Stake or Ward or EnrollSubscriptions _ Magazine Mission Branch ment No. Pct. Representative Idaho Falls Lincoln 64 50 78 Mary Pinegar No. Western Sts. Mis. Missoula 50 39 78 Ruth Cole Riverside Twenty-ninth 89 69 78 Hillier Daniels St. Joseph Miami 68 53 78 Ella Sims Snowflake Taylor 59 40 78 Mary Palmer Taylor Raymond Second go 70 78 Elsie S. Smith Wasatch Daniel 50 39 78 Sarah C. Price Bear Lake Paris Second 85 65 77 Sadie Bird Box Elder Honeyville 61 47 77 Rose J. Forsgren Highland Emerson 95 73% 77 Jennie Jones Inglewood Inglewood 77 59% 77 Grace Angus North Weber Ogden Fifteenth 60 46 77. Dorothy Brockbank Palmyra Spanish Fork Third 98 75 77. Lena Webb Snowflake Lakeside 60 46 77 Louella Burke Bannock Grace 86 65 76 Ida Sorenson Bear Lake Paris First 74 56 76 Ruth Wilks Burley View 50 38 76 Verla Wrigley No. Western Sts. Mis. Butte Branch 71 54 76 Alene Summers Rexburg Archer 59 45 76 Leah Briggs Rexburg Rexburg Third 62 47 76 Margaret Pearson St. George St. George Center 89 68 76 Flora Brooks San Juan Monticello 66 50 76 Dixie Scorup Tooele Grantsville First 76 58 76 Nora Anderson Yellowstone Ashton 74 56 76 Juanita Osborne Carbon Storrs 64 48 75 Josephine McPhie Lehi Lehi First 83 62 75 Inez Peterson Nampa Nampa First 65 49 75 Cora Nelson New York Queens 60 45 75 Laura Schroeder Palmyra Spanish Fork First 70 52% 75 Grace Mieling Rexburg Hibbard 68 51 75 Hazel H. Morris Seattle Queen Anne 54 40% 75 Sara A. Nicholson WARDS 75 PER CENT TO 99 PER CENT INCLUSIVE GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Stake or Ward or EnrollSubscriptions | Magazine Mission Branch ment No. Pct. Representative Mount Graham Las Crusces 16 15% 97 Marguerite R. Pyper St. Johns Alpine 29 28 97 Jessie Jepson San Francisco San Rafael 14 13% 96 Myrtle E. Lang Snowflake Pinedale 22 21 96 Thora W. Peterson Union Imbler 22 21 96 Jessie Perry Taylor Welling 21 20 95 Elizabeth Bullock Blaine Gannett 16 15 94 Luella Stanfield Minidoka Acequia 33 32 94 Ella Harrison Oakland Vallejo 34 32 94 loane Parker Yellowstone Farnum 8 17 94 Le Vera Hendrickson MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Alberta Juarez Nevada Nevada Rigby Sacramento Bannock Carbon Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Lost River Minidoka St. George South Summit East Jordan North Weber Star Valley Western States Mis. Yellowstone Lost River Maricopa Mount Graham Eastern States Mis. No. Western Sts. Mis. Ogden Big Horm Blackfoot Eastern States Mis. Nevada North Sanpete Oneida Western States Mis. Australian Mission Bear River Blackfoot Portneuf Uintah Boise Chicago Nevada Sacramento Lyman Moapa Oakland Roosevelt St. Joseph Snowflake Weiser California Mission Bear River St. George GROUP C?Continued Ward or Branch Taylorville Dublan Lund Metropolis Garfield Tracy Branch Central Standardville Newburgh Branch Rochester Branch Leodore Hazelton Ivins Marion Sandy Second | Marriott Turnerville Belle Fourche Branch Chester Mackay Coolidge Duncan Binghampton Branch Moscow Branch Eden Powell Sterling Reading Branch Wells Mountainville Br. Glencoe Montrose Branch Adelaide Branch Howell Springfield Woodland Glines Boise Fourth Milwaukee Branch Callao Ione Branch Manila Ursine Alemeda Ballard Globe Showlow Nyssa Ventura Branch Snowville Mt. Trumbull Enrollment 23 41 45 Subscriptions No. Pct. I 93 38 93 42 93 14 93 14 93 24 g2 12 g2 11 g2 12 92 12 g2 34 92 12 92 24 g2 40 91 41 gl 10 gl 10 gl 41 91 35 go 18 go 36 go 8 89 16 89 32 89 15 88 1 88 88 22 88 14 88 21 88 14 88 13 87 20 87 26 87 20 87 32 87 36 86 12 86 6 86 6 86 22 85 ll 85 35 85 28 85 35 85 30 85 28 85 21 84 25 83 10 83 B69 Magazine Representative Jane Lowry Glenna Haws Edith Reid Tressa T. Hyde Ethel Groom Carol Greenhalgh Emma Hansen Alice Nelson Adelaide M. Horning Addie M. Fose Leda Dalby Delila Wickham! Lula Tobler Zella B. Johnston Mary Smith Sarah H. Parry Myrtle Turner Jean Hales Martha Williams Retta Kent Nancy Johns Iona Packer Lettie M. Elliott Maude E. Anthony Janet Ferrin Bertha Cozzens Annie R. Nelson Pearl D. Yeager Nellie Hyde Birdella Burnside Gladys Johnson Iva Turner Gertrude Latter Veda B. Mason Minnie Thurston May Cottrel Vilate Hodgkinson Lillis Melander Vivienne I. Hart Inez Tripp Ellen Hyde Ida M. Schofield Zelma_ Hollinger Vina Holdaway Ellen Bracken Ann R. Shaw Sarah M. Willis - Edith Thompson Genevieve Robinson Neva Larkin Chloe Bundy 870 Stake or Mission St. Joseph Western States Mis. Western States Mis. Woodruff Yellowstone California Mission Idaho Texas Mission Yellowstone Alberta Beaver Bear Lake Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Malad Palmyra San Bernardino Southern States Mis. Washington Western States Mis. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--DECEMBER, 1940 GROUP C?Continued Ward or Branch Ashurst Carlsbad Branch Casper Branch Dimondville Green Timber Fresno Branch Kelly Natchitoches Br. Wilford Hartley Adamsville Ovid Philadelphia Branch Wilson Branch Pleasant View Palmyra Colton Sink Creek Branch Greenbelt Branch 'Grand Island Br. Northwestern Sts. Mis. Kalispell Branch Western States Mis. Cortez Branch California Mission Tonopah No. Western Sts. Mis. Hamilton Branch No. Western Sts. Mis. Dillon Branch Western States Mis. Western States Mis. Blackfoot Chicago Portneuf Rigby Rigby Seattle Bluewater Branch Lincoln Branch Riverside North Shore Swan Lake Fidelity Lorenzo Everett EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 20 Pct. Magazine Representative Mamie Geigar Jean Willis Jean Drollinger Neva Querry Mrs. Max Marotz Fern Mooney Aleda Smith Blanche J. Smith Margaret Willyerd Annie Orr Sarah A. Jones Marietta Sorenson Doris Bulkley Maria Taylor Ann M. Bailey Lois Roach Anna Wildman Audrey Peacock Elizabeth H. Pratt Maude O. West Lillie Elsberry Eunice Harris Susie Searle Lucy Chesley Vida R. Canfield Nora Harrison Nellie Dewey Dove Willden Delma Saunders Reta Johnson Daisy Morgan Emma Johnson Lillie Clark Ulah Pickrell Beatrice Nielson Sadie Furniss Melinda J. Brooksby Geneva R. Bay Lenah Casper Vilate B. Park Harriet Barney Rhoda Avery Ida Hardman Emma _ Hakes Lucy E. Wright Chnistene Kirwin Greile Glesen Marie Henderson Hattie Jacobson Mrs. Arnold Smithies Opal Hudson Idaho Malad St. Joseph Seattle Star Valley Weiser Bear River California Mission Franklin Morgan San Juan Teton Kanab Nevada Pasadena Santaquin-Tintic Seattle West Jordan Lund Woodruff Emery Bremerton Osmond Letha Collinston Santa Maria Preston Fifth Richville Bluff Bates Fredonia Eureka Branch Pasadena Elberta Lincoln Bluffdale MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake or Mission Taylor Teton Timpanogos Western States Mis. Bannock Bear Lake Blackfoot Inglewood Malad No. Western Sts. Mis. Palmyra Portland Rexburg Snowflake Star Valley Alberta Bannock Eastern States Mis. Minidoka Moapa Montpelier No. Western Sts. Mis. Portneuf Portneuf Santaquin-Tintic Southern States Mis. Western States Mis. Yellowstone Stake Emigration South Los Angeles Phoenix Ensign Nevada Granite Salt Lake San Francisco Union Big Horn Washington Ogden Weber Maricopa Idaho Falls Long Beach Oakland Mount Ogden GROUP C?Continued East Thomas 42 Cherry Creek 21 Subscriptions 871 Magazine No. Pct. _ Representative 13 77. Helen Babb 10 77 Lola May 28% 77 Adena Swenson 34 77 Anna Davis 16 76 Martha Kingsford 16 76 Hazel Long 32 76 Mrs. Hugh D. Park 25 76 Essie L. Jensen 16 76 Thelma M. Jones 19 76 Lucy R. Stott 31 76 Mary Marcusen 34 76 Gladys Mullen 34 76 Annie A. Briggs 34 76 Martha Thomas 31 76 Louisa Bee 18 75 Sarah Broadhead 15 75 Rose Hansen 6 75 Kathryn Kelley 30 75 Agnes Davidson 12 75 Leona M. Corbridge 18 75 Myrtle Steckler 9 75 Alice M. Horner 9 75 Rachel Anderson 6 75 Margaret N. Symons 33 75 Nettie Mickelson 3 75 Minnie Chesser 3 75 Beatrice Merrill 12 75 Sarah A. Ball STAKES 75 PER CENT OR OVER Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 512 671 131 537 602 112 354 392 rey 388 423 109 374 405 108 658 694 106 584 584 100 359 356% 99 258 255 99 728 799 97 232 226 97 995 934 94 768 722 93 734 649 92 612 554 2 499 445 89 581 515% 89 718 637 89 Magazine Representative Camille W. Halliday Venice R. Lund Laurana E. Willis Edith B. Vickers Eva Hendrix Pearl H. Crockett Veda Kimball Davis Louise B. Arntsen Mildred Snider Ann E. Gwynn Elizabeth T. Bowen Lois D. Smith Mabel C. Ellis Sarah Shumway Della Rowberry Ethel Spongberg Vida S. Allen Ida M. Ferrin Ward or Branch Wamer Branch Grovont Manila Albuquerque Williams Sharon Redondo Bynum Branch Leland Moreland Burton Flagstaff Grover Beazer Bench. Bradford Branch Rupert First Littlefield Bern Sandpoint Grant Lava Mammoth Pensacola Branch Clovis Heman Enrollment 17 13 37 44 21 21 33 25 41 45 45 45 41 24 20 8 40 16 24 12 12 8 44 4 4 16 872 Stake Wasatch Wells Woodruff Sacramento West Jordan Uintah Timpanogos Pasadena Provo Bear Lake Moapa Twin Falls Palmyra San Juan Chicago Los Angeles Lost River San Bernardino Boise Grant Juarez Utah Malad Bannock Mission Eastern States RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?DECEMBER, 1940 STAKES 75 PER CENT OR OVER?Continued Magazine Representative Lillie L. Duke Leone G. Layton Della McKinnon Marie Gibby Jane G. Morgan Helen Duke Marie E. Brown Fern E. Gorrell Elsie Moffitt Hattie Findlay Zina C, Smith Maud Hutchison Lenora Gull Clara J. Neilsen Fanny R. Bradley Edith Cowan Evelyn Pearson Naomi Larsen Beatrice Stephenson Martha Fagg Jennie Bowman Irma M. Mitchell Fern A. Willie Hattie Hogan Magazine Representative Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 616 537% 87 1055 gol 85 451 385 85 350 298 85 593 496 84 569 475, 84 372 310% 4 430 359 84 491 405 83 563 460 82 678 554 82 295 236 80 690 547 79 342 271 79 254 201 79 394 305 77 285 220 - 77 257 198 77 333 254 76 816 616 76 164 125 76 642 489 76 563 428 76 352 263 75 MISSIONS 75 PER CENT OR OVER Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 282 211 75 Cloverleaf Milk puts summer sunshine in your food all winter?supplying extra vitamin D for the proper nourishment of bones and teeth. It is Salt Lake's only irradiated vitamin D fresh milk. Costs no more than | ordinary milk Cl Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitdmin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS Extra Rich in Sunshine VITAMIN OD SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Bonna Ashby CHRISTMAS Is COMING! FOR THAT EXTRA GIFT SHOP AT Tlormnon Handicraft GIFT SHOP 21 W So. Temple?Salt Lake City THREE NEW BOOKS BY UTAH WRITERS DOWN THIS ROAD By Eva Willes Wangsgaard $1.50 SILVER RAIN By Anna Johnson $1.50 CUMORAH'S "GOLD BIBLE" By E. Cecil McGavin $2.25 we DESERET BOOK STORE or Your Local Book Store Temple and Burial Clothing Temple Clothing For Men and Women Burial Clothing for Men, Women and Children FINEST MATERIALS EXPERT WORKMANSHIP QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE PRICES EXPRESS AND FOSTAL CHARGES PREPAID RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD 20 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine She Gladdened the Heart of a Little Girl 70 Years Ago. And that little girl has kept her doll all these years! It's one her mother gave her, and she wouldn't part with it for the world. There's a man we know who lives in a mansion. On the wall of his study is a faded old print. But he wouldn't trade it for a priceless masterpiece, for it was a present from a fiveyear-old son who had eagerly saved his pennies to buy it 40 years ago. Such is the magic of Christmas. On this great day, ofttimes the smallest of gifts become the most priceless possession. And we at Christmas City know this. For 72 years ZCMI has been as much a part of Christmas as holly wreaths and mistletoe. We love Christmas. And we appreciate the honor you bestow when you come to us for gifts that will express your feeling of love and friendship for others. So, whether you give a greeting card or a mink coat, you can rest assured that we've literally searched the world for your gift... And it will say "Merry Christmas" every day in the ~ year for many years to come.