[Preparing Your Child for School and for Life by Celia Luce]

PREPARING YOUR CHILD FOR SCHOOL AND FOR LIFE 749 ~books available in libraries the last few years. Get some good books to read to Junior, and you will enjoy them, too.
Parents should certainly not overlook The Children's Friend, published by the. Primary Association of the Church. 'The stories and pictures it contains are seasonal, and the child may make the contents his very own. As you study children's magazines, you will find that The Children's Friend is one of the best and most attractive.
There is another important way you can prepare your child for school and for life. Surely, you have met adults who are bored with life. In this great, fascinating world, they can find nothing to interest them. Willard Luce A friend told me the following story. He was riding in a car with two men. One was past seventy, and the other was his grandson.
Both of them had plenty of money and plenty of time to travel. The ride was long, and it led through the wild desert country of Southeastern Utah. The young grandson was bored. Occasionally, he glanced out of the car window, but only occasionally. 'There were just rocks and more rocks, not even many trees. Finally, the young man went to sleep. The older man sat forward in his seat and watched the scenery intently. He loved this country and didn't want to miss a single weird formation. He saw the strange colors on. The great cliffs. He saw Tarot ORY HOUR Stories read together add greatly to the importance of books and reading. 750 the sweep of magnificent spaces and their patterns and contrasts of colors. It was a wonderful ride, and the old man didn't intend to miss any of it. CHILDREN begin with an interest in life as great as that of older people. 'The world is a wonderful place, and they want to know all about it. Who can tell them? Why, Mother, of course. So Susie toddles in to Mother, and starts asking questions. If Susie is lucky, Mother will listen carefully and give the best answer she can.
Some questions Mother cannot answer, so she says, "I wish I knew that, too," or "That is something no one knows," or "Let's find it out together." If Susie is unlucky, Mother merely says, "Oh, don't bother me with silly things like that. ''m busy." And soon Susie begins to lose interest in the things around her. She stops questioning, and the great mys-— teries of the world may be lost to her. She may grow to become just another bored adult. } If you cannot answer your child's questions, at least you can take time to listen to them.
Interest in the things that interest a child is more important than knowing the answers. But sometimes you ought 'to help him find the answers, too. If you haven't a set of encyclopedias at home, the school or library has some you may use.
Some of our  magazines are full of helpful information.
Just by using your eyes, you can learn a lot with your child.
Watch the insects in the garden.
Plant some seeds together, and watch them grow. 'Take time to look at the pretty rocks Junior gathers.
Watch the stars change positions with the seasons of the year. If you cannot answer all Junior's questions, at least question with him.
When he comes to some of the answers in school, he will be that alert, interested child you want him to be.
Some children, who may have difficulty in mastering reading and arithmetic, may make a valuable contribution in nature and science and handicraft. A keen interest in life and in the world can make up for some deficiencies and lack of opportunity. The habit of questioning is most important. How else can a person learn than by question; ing and having his questions considered thoughtfully and, if possible, answered.
Prepare your child for school, then, and for life, from the time he is an infant, by giving him a deep sense of security; by having him associate in groups of children his own age, such as Sunday School or Primary; by providing him with suitable books; encouraging his curiosity and interest in the world about him; and by attempting to answer his questions.
Puddings for Shanksgiving Home Service Department Mountain Fuel Supply Company Carrot Plum Pudding 1. Mix and sift together three times: 1 c. Flour "2 tsp. Salt % c.
White sugar - 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 tsp. Nutmeg | 1 tsp soda % tsp. Cloves 2. Add: "2 c.
Brown sugar "2 ¢.
Chopped nuts 1 c.
Grated carrots 1 small bottle maraschino 1 c.
Grated raw potatoes | cherries 1 c.
Grated apples | % c.
Melted butter 1 c.
Seedless raisins or g tbsp. Suet, ground 1 c.
Chopped dates 3.
Steam in greased baking powder cans or in a double boiler for 2 hours.
Serve with whipped cream or Caramel Sauce. Serves 12. Note: If kept cold, this pudding will keep for months. It may also be bottled and stored in the cellar for later use., Caramel Sauce FO Oe % ¢c. Sugar 2. Add and simmer until all sugar is dissolved - 1 cc.
Boiling water 3. In another pan, melt 2.2.2.2 eee ce tence ee eene eee eeteeeeee6 tbsp. Butter AN d | IE rr4 tbsp. Flour 7 tsp.
Salt eeae lc. Water Caramelized liquid 6.
Stir until smooth and thick. Divinity Pudding LD. CGMS 2 0. Neseoeceneecanneennsenneecescennesencencnonecsaceenserececere6 tbsp. Cornstarch 1% ec.
Brown sugar I Twa e200 a ETE sSscoen2n28sStnonenceesererweneerenenees 2 ¢. Hot water 3. Cook, stirring constantly, until thick and transparent. 4.
Pour slowly lmt0 2 scsccecsceesseseececeeeeeeecceeeeeceseeseneeneees 3 beaten egg whites 5.
Beat constantly while adding. 6.
Beat for a long time (7 to 10 minutes). Go) eee Yc. Nuts 1 c. Dates, chopped 1 tsp. Vanilla 8.
Pour into molds rinsed 'in cold water. G.
Serve with custard sauce or whipped cream. ] 
752 
Custard Sauce 1. Beat slightly with fork 200 teeeeeteeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeee3 OBZ yolks 2. Add 2.2.2.2++2 poe eo "A C. Sugar 7 tsp. Salt 3. Stir constantly while adding - W..2-2..2.-.2..-. Ecceseceeeceeeeeeeeeoes 2. ¢. Scalded milk 4. Cook in a double boiler, stirring until mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the spoon. 5
Chill amd add oon eect eetceeeeeeececececceeeeecceeeecnenesseneeeesenes "2 tsp. Vanilla G ray Sides C. Cameron Johns Why am I engulfed by gray seas of lone}iness When scarlet leaves go spinning down the wind, When silent corridors of the orchard Have forgotten the voice of the harvester, And stir only to infrequent bird calls; 4
When the smoke of early leaf pyres Has blotted out the scent of summer, When the waning sun harbors the prisms of winter? The scarlet leaves drop at my feet And the gray tide covers me. Brake Adventure Sut and Dream Marian Schroder Crothers Grace B. Wilson Who has not seen the wild geese fly Sit and dream awhile. In wedge formation ° Across the far spaces Sharply etched against the darkening sky, Daylight fades, The laggards trailing? And not a gleam is seen Strong wing beats bear them on, Save a few high stars And steadily they pass, That keep eternal watch Their clamorous voices calling. Over the timeless desert. Who tells them when to go and when to come? Sit awhile and dream Who charts their course? Of timelessness of desert, Who holds them thus together, And of man. Brave company upon a brave adventure?