["If You Live Up to Your Privileges" by President Belle S. Spafford]

If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates."  724
Times without number _ this promise of the Prophet has been quoted by Relief Society women, | bearing testimony of its treasured place in their hearts. Yet, in quoting, I sometimes wonder if we are as cognizant of the terms set forth by the Prophet on which the blessings are predicated as we are of the blessings. "If you live up to your privileges!"
This is the rule laid down, the law which must be fulfilled if the promises are to be realized—a law as binding on us today as on the little group of sisters who heard the - words spoken by their beloved Prophet. FE are a_ highly privileged womanhood. No other women in all the world are so favored. We have the gospel in its fullness. We have a divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed society _ through which a knowledge of the gospel may be gained and testimony developed, and through which our talents and womanly virtues may find righteous expression. Privileged, indeed, are we that _In this dispensation the Lord has once again spoken.
Through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord has revealed mighty truths withdrawn for ages from mankind.
Divine authority, God's holy Priesthood, has been restored; his Church established, the plan of life and salvation made clear.
Great and wonderful are the things God has made known. The gospel opens up vast vistas of light and understanding, bringing into bold relief those things which are of eternal value, of first importance, and relegating  to their rightful place those of small or temporary moment.
Having these truths, we live intelligently, facing our trials with courage, secure in the knowledge that if we act according to the will of God all is well with us. To have access to a knowledge of this precious gospel, and to fail to avail ourselves of it, and to conform our lives to it, is to fail to live up to our privileges. At yesterday's meeting Sister Layton referred to a statement by President John Taylor wherein he said: "It is our privilege to have knowledge of all doctrines and principles that are taught, and if we do not have this knowledge we are living below our privileges."
Another great privilege, which, in his kindness, the Father has specially granted to women is that of bearing and rearing children, of mothering the spirits he has created and allowed to come to earth. 'Today I should like to say a word with regard to this. To the mother, in large measure, has come the responsibility of guiding her children into happy, useful lives, and of preparing them to be worthy of going back into the inner family circle of our heavenly home when earth life is done. The gospel teaches us that the family unit is an eternal one; that children are of intrinsic worth, inherently valuable, a priceless possession.
Every child has a right to all the love, the guidance, the motherly watchcare, the security that can be given him in achieving his fullest development here upon the earth. The laws of life and the revealed word of God com- "IF YOU LIVE UP TO YOUR PRIVILEGES" bine in telling us there is no more important work for womankind than to rear children in nghteousness. President David O. McKay, addressing the sisters in general Relief Society conference in October 1939, declared: "Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood." T' is a matter of deep concern that many women are lacking in a quick and acute sensitiveness to their privileges of motherhood.
Reports from the Mid-Century White House Conference, 1950, state that "two and a half million children under eighteen years of age live in broken homes; fifty-eight per cent of the divorces were granted to childless couples." The love for little children is an age-old concept, the very fabric of our culture, yet its deep meaning and the acceptance of its attendant responsibilities appear to be losing ground. The broadening of vocational opportunities for women, the increased living standards and high living costs, requiring greater income than one member of a family can provide, the increased opportunities to transfer child-care functions to child-care centers, strong community appeals, the desires for independence, yes, and in some instances, a sense of discontent and fear of missing something in the seclusion and the unrecognized activities of household routine, these, and other factors, are enticing and leading mothers and __ potential mothers to seek employment out- 725 side their homes at too great a cost to their children, at the too costly sacrifice of a full realization of the joys and blessed privileges of motherhood.
During the period of August 20 to September 15 our employment office reported thirty-six employed mothers requesting help to care for their children during their absence at work. 'There were seventy-eight children involved, fourteen under nine months old; more than this number were between one and two years. 'These mothers all had gainfully employed husbands. One mother, in seeking help, - said: "There really isn't much work, just take care of the three children, feed them, straighten the house a little, and do a little washing and ironing." The average wage these working mothers are willing to pay for help ranges from twelve to fifteen dollars per week for this exacting and responsible work of child-care. I ask you to consider whether such care, however good it may be, is in any measure an acceptable substitute for conscientious mother care. The heavens have smiled upon women in granting them the sacred privilege of motherhood. In motherhood woman obtains her deepest satisfaction and attains her highest glory. 'To fail to meet its obligations is to fail to live up to one of her greatest privileges. ODAY the world is in need of mellowing.
None would question the need for life to be made sweeter, the world a more loving place in which to live. All about us we see evidence of a sick and darkened society in need of healing, 

726  spiritual influences. 'This, too, is woman's privilege—a privilege of which we must always be aware.
Women have been called the architects of spirituality.
When this quality is no longer found in womankind, sorry indeed will be the state of the world.
Through deeds of love and kindly service, which find effective direction in our God-inspired society, through circumspect __ behavior, through zefinement of manner and speech, through modesty of dress, through acting according to the: will of God, women may develop: nobility of soul and beauty of character, which will cause them to radiate spiritual strengths that will shine forth like the stars in the darkness of night. In the light of this influence, the mean, the low, the vulgar, will fade away.
Choice and wonderful are the privileges granted by the Father to his daughters here upon the earth.
Great and important is the mission of women. If we live up to our privileges, the promises made by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters on that spring day more than a century ago will be fulfilled in our lives as surely as will be any of the words spoken by the prophets of God—great and glorious will be our reward in the celestial kingdom; the angels cannot be restrained from being our associates. 'These are rewards well worth the winning.
That the Lord may help us to see the beauties of life, the greatness of our blessings, even in a darkened world of trial, and help us live up to the opportunities and privileges granted us by a kind and all-wise Father, I sincerely pray. She Candle Flour Mary Gustafson This is the in-between, the candle hour In homes that hold a haven from the world The time when sparrow songs no longer shower, — But shelter through the dusk.
Small lambs lie curled Within the sheephouse walls. The day is hushed By curtaining of light, and silence drifts Beyond the ancient hill. The sun was rushed To urgent needs, and now the tired heart lifts To see a glowing square that shows the one He loves is waiting for his hand to reach And open wide the unbarred door. All done, The tasks that face the day that comes to each... At candle hour the toil of earth must fade For quiet jewels of peace are night-inlaid. The evening breeze blows softly through The curtained windows, and the dew Falls gently on the sleeping flowers, And all the world is hushed in prayer.