[Just One Step at a Time by Caroline Eyring Miner]

Just one step at a time, and the seemingly impossible is often accomplished."  ~ Preparing Your Child for School and for Lite Celia Luce: ATURALLY you would like N Junior to shine in school. You would like his teacher to say, "Now there is an ideal student, alert, well adjusted, and doing a fine job in his school work." If this is what you want, then begin while your child is very young and work for it. First, you must give the child a sense of security.
Start with the newborn baby and let him know that he is loved and important. Let each child know that he fills a spot no one else on earth can fill. If doubts and worry take all a child's thoughts, he has no time left over for school work.
Fear is closely allied with worry, and just as bad.
Never frighten your child to make him mind. Of course he must have a proper respect for such things as fire. But let fear be only for real dangers, never for superstitions and "bogey men." Let him know that God watches over him, and that most fears are unnecessary.
Then life and new situations become new adventures. For the child who knows fear, however, school can be a terrifying place. He is taken to a strange room, full of strange people, not knowing quite what is expected of him.
Mother goes off and leaves him. But school need not be that way. If a child has been to Sunday School and Primary, he is used to being left with a teacher and with children his own age.
Some of the group are his friends. It isn't an entirely new situation.
They sing songs and hear stories, just as they do in Sunday School.
Scarcely any time is needed to get used to school. The child is almost at once ready to begin learning. 'This may give him several days head start when days really count. It will also give him a happy adjustment to school, which some children never get.
Crayons and scissors should be old friends, too.
Much time is used in kindergarten and first grade in teaching the child skill in cutting and coloring. If he can already do these well, he gets the feeling of satisfaction of a job well done. It gives him an added confidence in himself which will carry over into other school subjects. He is starting out as a "good student."
Books should certainly be loved as old friends.
This is more important than most parents realize. In one community the teachers found one grade of students who couldn't learn to read well.
Each teacher worked hard, but nothing seemed to help much.
Other grades in the same school, with the same teachers, were doing excellent work. Finally, the fifth grade teacher went to the superintendent for help. As a matter of interest, he made a survey of the homes from  
748 
Willard Luce YOUNG ARTISTS AT WORK.
Skill in coloring and cutting should be acquired at home when the child is still small.
Which the children came. A surprising fact was discovered.
Over ninety per cent of the homes had no reading material of any sort in them. 'There were no books, no magazines, no newspapers. 'This was certainly not true of the town as a whole, as the survey and the reading ability of the other grades revealed. How could children be expected to be interested in reading when their parents were not interested, and books were strange to them? MAKE book friends in your home. Let the child start handling books as soon as he shows any interest, but don't just turn him loose and Jet him destroy them. The moment he starts to tear or mistreat a book or magazine, take it away. Sit down with him ofttimes and leaf through the books and magazines together. He'll love it. As the child grows a little older, teach him nursery rhymes and tell him simple stories. A few picture books will help, too.
Soon the child will be ready for storybooks.
Each child should have a few of his own books that can be read over and over. 'These books need not be expensive.
Excellent ones can be bought at a small price.
Examine carefully each book you place in your home. The problem, however, may not be so much in finding good books, as in deciding which of the many completely delightful books you should buy. If you live near a public library, your problem is simplified. You will be amazed at the change in the PREPARING YOUR CHILD FOR SCHOOL AND FOR LIFE
749 books available in libraries the last few years. Get some good books to read to Junior, and you will enjoy them, too.
Parents should certainly not overlook The Children's Friend, published by the Primary Association of the Church. The stories and pictures it contains are seasonal, and the child may make the contents his very own. As you study children's magazines, you will find that The Children s Friend is one of the best and most attractive.
There is another important way you can prepare your child for school and for life. Surely, you have met adults who are bored with life. In this great, fascinating world, they can find nothing to interest them.
A friend told me the following story. Pie was riding in a car with two men. One was past seventy, and the other was his grandson.
Both of them had plenty of money and plenty of time to travel. The ride was long, and it led through the wild desert country of Southeastern Utah. The young grandson was bored. Occasionally, he glanced out of the car window, but only occasionally. There were just rocks and more rocks, not even many trees. Finally, the young man went to sleep.
The older man sat forward in his seat and watched the scenery intently. He loved this country and didn't want to miss a single weird formation. He saw the strange colors on. the great cliffs. Pie saw
Willard Luce
THE STORY HOUR
Stories read together add greatly to the importance of books and reading.

750
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER 1951 the sweep of magnificent spaces and their patterns and contrasts of colors. It was a wonderful ride, and the old man didn't intend to miss any of it.
/CHILDREN begin with an interest in life as great as that of older people. The world is a wonderful place, and they want to know all about it. Who can tell them?
Why, Mother, of course.
So Susie toddles in to Mother, and starts asking questions. If Susie is lucky, Mother will listen carefully and give the best answer she can.
Some questions Mother cannot answer, so she says, "I wish I knew that, too," or 'That is something no one knows," or "Let's find it out together."
If Susie is unlucky, Mother merely says, "Oh, don't bother me with silly things like that. I'm busy." And soon Susie begins to lose interest in the things around her. She stops questioning, and the great mysteries of the world may be lost to her. She may grow to become just another bored adult.
If you cannot answer your child's questions, at least you can take time to listen to them. Interest in the things that interest a child is more important than knowing the answers. But sometimes you ought to help him find the answers, too.
If you haven't a set of encyclopedias at home, the school or library has some you may use. Some of our magazines are full of helpful information. Just by using your eyes, you can learn a lot with your child.
Watch the insects in the garden.
Plant some seeds together, and watch them grow. Take time to look at the pretty rocks Junior gathers. Watch the stars change positions with the seasons of the year.
If you cannot answer all Junior's questions, at least question with him. When he comes to some of the answers in school, he will be that alert, interested child you want him to be.
Some children, who may have difficulty in mastering reading and arithmetic, may make a valuable contribution in nature and science and handicraft. A keen interest in life and in the world can make up for some deficiencies and lack of opportunity. The habit of questioning is most important. How else can a person learn than by question^ ing and having his questions considered thoughtfully and, if possible, answered.
Prepare your child for school, then, and for life, from the time he is an infant, by giving him a deep sense of security; by having him associate in groups of children his own age, such as Sunday School or Primary; by providing him with suitable books; encouraging his curiosity and interest in the world about him; and by attempting to answer his questions.

Lruddtngs for oJhaaksgtving
Home Service Department
Mountain Fuel Supply Company
Larrot LP lam LP adding
1. Mix and sift together three times:
1 c. flour Vi tsp. salt
Vi c. white sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon
1 tsp. nutmeg i tsp soda
!4 tsp. cloves
2. Add:
Vi c. brown sugar Vi c. chopped nuts i c. grated carrots i small bottle maraschino i c. grated raw potatoes cherries i c. grated apples % c. melted butter i c. seedless raisins or 9 tbsp. suet, ground
1 c. chopped dates
3. Steam in greased baking powder cans or in a double boiler for 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream or Caramel Sauce.
Serves 12.
Note: If kept cold, this pudding will keep for months. It may also be bottled and stored in the cellar for later use. i^aramel Saace
1. Caramelize Vz c. sugar
2. Add and simmer until all sugar is dissolved 1 c. boiling water
3. In another pan, melt 6 tbsp. butter
4. Add 4 tbsp. flour
V% tsp. salt
5.