ANGLO-SAXON LITERATURE.

	The Anglo-Saxon was the first of eight
periods of English Literature. The Celts, who
first inhabited Britain, were driven out by
the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes, in 607 A. D.
For about two hundred years they were in an
unsettled and quarrelsome state, being divided
up into different kingdoms. Egbert of Wessex
united the nine A. S. kingdoms and called
himself king of the English. These people
had a great love of adventure and of nature,
which may be easily discovered by reading
their poetry. Poetry was their first form of
literature. Their poems were exclusively of
religion and the sea. Their poems were wild
and improbable containing accounts of dragons,
monsters, etc. This was natural. The country
they inhabited was wild and rugged in its
scenery. It is likely that their imaginations
would people the uncultivated haunts with
mythical beings.
	The first work which appeared in Britain was
Beowulf, a poem of adventure and excitement.
It was not an A. S. work as it was written on
the continent before the Anglo Saxons entered
Britain, but it was translated into A. S. by a 
gentleman of Northumbria. The first real
A. S. writing, which places the author as
Father of English Literature, is Coedmon's
Paraphrase of the Bible. It was written in 670
A. D, beginning the A. S. period of literature.
Coedmon, durning his old age, through in-
spiration (so the story of the poem's origin
says) translated the whole of the Bible into
verse. This book partly formed the founda-
tion for Milton's "Paradise Lost," for there is
a striking similarity between many passages of
the two authors. Especially is this the case in
the soliloquy of Satan.
	The A. S. poetry and language were very
different from those of modern English. There
was no metre or rhyme, but a sort of metri-
cal effect was produced by commencing the
the first two words of the first and the first
main word of the second line with the same
letter. The lines all went in pairs.
	A few poems of less importance followed
Coedmon's work. A number of sacred poems
and hymns were written by Aldhelm and
Cynewulf. The Vercelli and Exeter books

[Column 2]

contain some of the writings of these poets.
Of the war poems of A. S. literature the battle
songs of Finnesburg, Maldon, and Brununburli
are the only ones of consequence.
	Soon deeper thought became apparent among
the Anglo Saxons, for prose began to make its
appearance. The first work of prose was by
Boede (a Roman Catholic monk of Northum-
bria) which entitled him to  the name of the
Father of A. S. prose. His works were almost
entirely in Latin. Had it not been for his
translation of the Gospel of St. John, which
was his closing work, and his only work in
English, he never could have had a place in
A. S. Literature. Boede was a person of very
extensive knowledge. He was versed in science,
philosophy, literature, and art, all of which
were displayed in his writings. The real
father of A. S. prose though was AElfred the
Great. In Northumbria and the adjoining
region A. S. Literature almost died down by
the invasion of the Danes. CElfred revived it in
Wessex. He was a practical, methodical man
who was deeply interested in his people and
who was anxious concerning their welfare. He
tried in every manner to better their condi-
tion and understanding. He was not an
original writer but he made numerous transla-
tions from the Latin tongue, adding copious
notes of his own. Among others of his works
was a translation of Orpheus into English. He
wrote  on  morals, religion and  philosophy.
During the riegn of Edgar (As the Great's
son) AEthelwald came into notice as a writer.
He translated from Latin into the English
tongue. His pupil, AElfric was well known for
being the first translator of the Bible, as he
converted into English the first seven books
and Job.
	A principal prose work of ancient Briain
was the A. S. Chronicle. It began  in the
reign of AElfred the Great (in about the ninth
century) and was kept by monks from that
time until 1154. This book is very dry and
uninteresting. Its only value lies in the fact
that it was a part of A. S. Literature.
     In 1066, A. S. Literature was almost crushed
out by the victorious entrance into Britain of
the Normans, and no more writings were pro-
duced until the beginning of the next period,
when the Anglo Saxons and the Normans
combined in their efforts.
		A. T. C.


