LEHI W. S. A.
	Pursuant to a call the ladies of Lehi met
in the Relief Society Hall Thurs. Dec. 19,
1889 to organize a branch of the W. S. A
Mrs. Rebecca Standring was elected tempo-
rary chairman and Mrs Sarah T. Evans Secy.
Mrs. Standring announced the object of the
meeting.
	Singing. “My country ’tis of thee." Prayer
by the chaplain Mrs. M. A. Comer.
	The secretary then read the call after which
the following officers were elected. Mrs. Mary
Ann Webb, Vice Pres. Mrs. Sara T. Evans,
Secy. Mrs. Laura Cutler, Chairman, Mrs. M.
M.	Gaddie, Josephine Brown, Mary Ann
Standring, Sarah A. Karrew, executive com-
mittee.
	The secretary read the constitution of the
N. W. S. A. which was unanimously adopted.
The by laws and regulations as adopted in
Utah Co. were also read and adopted. 
	Vice Pres. M. A. Webb thanked the assembl-
age for the honor that had been conferred upon
her. It was one duty to convert the men as
well as the women to the necessity of the
women having the franchise. We in Utah
have had the franchise and can appeal to his-
tory to prove that we never abused it, but used
it wisely and intelligently always standing
bravely for the right. As mothers it is our
duty to understand politics. We should be
able to instruct our sons and daughters that
they may understand their rights and privi-
leges as American citizens. Believed the day
was not far distant when the women would en-
joy their rights of the ballot.
	The following address was then delivered
by Mrs. Mary M. Gaddie:—
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I stand before you to address you on the sub-
ject of women suffrage. I am proud to see
the women feel that they have rights. Let us
go to work with a determination never to give
up until we gain those rights.
	I have studied this subject and asked my-
self the question. “Why are women not
allowed to vote as well as men.” There is but
one answer. The women have never asked
 for the right. It is true that a few noble
women in the nation have been working for
it many years but a large majority have

[Column 2]
thrown their influence against it, and said "I
can trust to men to do my business.” “What
can women do anyway?” The reason they
talk thus is that they do not seem to under-
stand that they have any rights only those
which men give them. I assert that women
have done as much towards making this
nation what it is to-day as men have. This is
a broad assertion but I expect to substantiate
it before I get through. When Columbus was
inspired with the belief that there was a
country on the other side of the ocean men
scorned the idea, but a noble woman grasped
it and helped with her means to give him an 
outfit to go on his exploring eqpedition. There-
fore, we give women the credit for the dis-
covery of this good land. When the discov- 
ery was made men began to gather here from 
all the European world, and as they could
not get along without the women, they came
too. They suffered all the privations and
hardships that men did. They went to work,
the women with the men, and soon began to
prosper; as they prospered they became inde-
pendent, growing stronger as the years rolled
by. All these years they had been paying
taxes to England, but they became tired of
this as they were not represented in the mother
country, and “taxation without representa-
tion,” was their war cry. Ladies, that is one
condition to-day and has been for over a hun-
dred years taxation without representation.
The colonists went to war and gained their in-
dependence. When war the was over the men
formulated a constitution for the government
of the people and declared that all were created
free and equal, and the rights of life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness were guaranteed
to them.
	Then emigration took its march toward the
setting sun. Woman had been declared free
and equal with man. She must go with him
through the wilderness, across the deserts,
through a country filled with savages. She
 was equal with him in all the trials and hard-
ships of pioneer life. They never stopped their
onward march until they landed on the
Pacific coast, by this time women had helped
to build up a great nation. The men had
held the reins of government with a firm and
steady hand. They made all the laws and
administered them, created all the offices and
filled them all with men. And what else has
woman done besides sharing the hardships.
She has reared presidents, senators, congress- 
men, legislators, governors, judges, lawyers,
and warriors to fight the nation’s battles, in
fact every other class of men that compose
this great nation, and yet she has never been
allowed to cast a vote for the sons she has
reared to fill these high and exalted stations.
Yet this is a great and powerful nation there
is none other on the footstool of God that
equals it. Its glory and grandeur shine far
and wide. All nations are invited to come to
this "land of the free and home of the brave,”
and yet at least one half of her citizens have 
never been allowed the right of franchise, and
there is a dark spot on the horizon of its great-
ness. The women of the nation have been
looking at that spot. They find it is a star
with a veil over its face. That star is woman’s
suffrage. We want to remove the veil and
let the star shine forth with all its brightness
and prove to the world that this is indeed and
in truth a land of the free and a home of the
brave women as well as men. The sovereign-
ity of this nation is rested in the people.
Women as well as men are its sovereigns. The 
lawmakers are their servants.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	As women have shared equally with men in
all the trials and hardships of building up a
nation until its greatness knows no bounds, is
it not fair and just that she should share  in
the honors and emoluments?


Ladies:— 
	Our cause is so just, that conquer we must.
 Let this be our motto, in God is our trust.
	Mrs. Laura Cutler was heartily in favor of 
woman suffrage.  As woman was in the be-
ginning created as a help-meet to man, it was 
only reasonable to suppose that she was en- 
dowed with equal intelligence that she might 
be an able assistant.  It has been said by 
some misanthropist, "a woman was always at 
the bottom of all trouble.” She is most cer-
tainly at the head of that which is honorable.
Without her whence would have come the pil- 
grim fathers, the patriots of the revolution, the
framers of our glorious constitution?  Through
all those trying times when our Independence
was in its infancy, who went hand in hand
with those patriots as they fought for their 
rights?  Who comforted and sustained them
and prayed while they fought?  Who endured
the hardships of those perilous times side by 
side, with the men traveling across the track-
less plains and bravely bearing their share of 
the burden.” The women all honor to them. 
Since the first woman's convention which 
was held at Senecca Falls N. Y. in June 1848 a
few have been struggling for the right of 
suffrage until now the movement is general.
It is said, a woman will always have her way. 
If this is the case, when the women of a nation 
are united they stand a good chance of getting 
what they ask for.  We want the right to say 
who shall hold office and make the laws we 
are governed by.  As we in Utah have held 
the franchise, we feel most keenly on the sub- 
ject.  If we expect to rear sons who will be
able to uphold and sustain our great and 
glorious constitution in all its purity we must 
prepare ourselves so to do. 
	Hon. Geo. Webb said “It is evident we 
must concede the point that in intelligence,
women are the equal of men, as we have seen 
by, those who preceeded me.” If the ladies of
the nation are united in this movement and
each converts her husband the victory is won.
That women will have their way is fully rec-
ognized in the lobbys of Congress.  Women
succeeding where men fail.  If mothers wish 
their sons to become politicians, they should be 
able to teach them.  A mother’s influence
over her child is boundless.  Many of our
prominent men and eminent politicians ac-
knowledge that their success is due to the in-
fluence of mother or wife. 
	Franchise is conferred by law and can be 
withdrawn by law.  Congress holding that 
power over us as a territory.  If Utah were a 
state (with the leading men we have to-day) 
the ladies of Utah would enjoy the franchise. 
	Mrs. Josephine Brown considered the sub- 
ject of Woman Suffrage a very important one. 
We should understand our positions and be 
united on this movement.  Let our motto be 
“United we stand, divided we fall.” 
	Mr. John Woodhouse spoke upon the con-
dition of women in past ages and of their 
present advancement, until now we find them 
equal with men in almost all the walks of life. 
It is claimed that women would have a purify-
ing effect on politics, but he considered 
American politics so rotten they were past 
redemption.  A different and better state of 
affairs must soon prevail and when that time 
came women would undoubtedly obtain their
rights.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was proud of this or- 
ganization.  In all departments of life he be- 
lieved women were as reliable as men. They 
had proven themselves capable in various 
positions.  Had heard of female cashiers in
banks but not yet of a female defaulter. It 
was the duty of the ladies to maintain their
rights.  Had never heard an intelligent reason
advanced why women should not vote.  If the
women held the franchise many evils that
now exist in our midst would be abolished.

[Column 2]
	Mr. William Southwick was in sympathy 
with this movement and endorsed the senti-
ments that had been uttered.  Spoke upon the
condition of politics in the United States. 
	Through the industry of the ladies they 
could accomplish anything.  Believed the day
was not far distant when the ladies would 
have the franchise. 
	The meeting adjourned for one month.
	No of members enrolled 137.
		SARAH T. EVANS, Sec. pro. tem.


