EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Knowing that you and the readers of your
valuable paper really esteem very highly the ex-
ample of a well-spent life, and rejoice in the
merit won by the truly good, I take the liberty of
furnishing you a brief account of a notable in-
stance of family affection, reverence and respect.
	Just before the close of the past year the
golden wedding of Patriarch Rosel Hyde and his
wife Mary Ann, arrived and was celebrated at
their home in Kaysville by the assembling of their
three sons and four daughters with their wives
and husbands and several esteemed and valued
friends to do honor to the occasion. A more
heartfelt reverence for their great worth could
hardly have been realized. Father and mother
Hyde have proven themselves well worthy of the
profound respect manifest in the feeling tributes
of regard which welled up in the hearts of their
family. Not merely kindness but intense feeling
was exhibited in the greetings, and good wishes
expressed. The occasion was one, the recollec-
tion of which will never be effected. Here were
parents, fifty years of whose life in the duty of
marriage as husband and wife, father and mother
were spread out before the intimate criticism of
their intelligent children, now themselves grown
to the confines of the sere and yellow leaf, and
arrived at maturity of judgement, and yet not a
scene recalled which gave a reflection of injustice
or a wish that it had not been. Not passive but
active respect and a sincere wish that the child-
ren's lives might be as just, as prudent and worthy,
as the lives of the honored parents, was the pre-
vailing sentiment. And the following extract of
an address by one of the sons was heartly en-
dorsed:

"And the inspiration we imbibed from your counsels good
	and wise
Has kept us firm thus far in life to the goal before our
	eyes.
And whate'er of good and noble deeds we've done or yet
	may do
We've had the teaching first and the example set by you."

	Yon cannot yield much of your valuable space
to this item so I will not give details, but simply
say that the ample stores of Father Hyde fur-
nished turkeys, beef, mutton, pork &c. all of his
own raising, with other necessary items all
raised and made on his own premises, and that
the company assembled from the extreme north
of Cache Valley, the extreme west of Tooele
County and intervening parts, were royally enter-
tained and such a family reunion it is the privi-
lege of few persons to attend.
	Father Hyde is son of the late Heman Hyde of
the 13th, Ward of this City, and brother to the late
William Hyde of Hyde Park Cache, Co., and of
Patriarch Charles W. Hyde. Mother Hyde is the
sister of the late Elvira Smith Holmes who was
one of the plural wives of the Prophet Joseph.
	Grandma Elizabeth L. Hyde 79 years of age
composed and read the following;

[Column 2]

	Dedicated to Rosel and Mary Ann Hyde on
their Golden Wedding day:

	Five decades are past and gone
		Since you were young and blithe and gay,
	Then you agreed life's joys to share
		And chose your loyal wedding day.

	Eight sons and daughters good and true
		Are come from near and far away
	To greet their honored parents dear
		Upon their Golden Wedding day.

	A poet rare with golden pen
		Could scarce your worthy deeds portray,
	Yet I this simple offering bring
		On this your Golden Wedding day.

Yours respectfully
	H. H. S.


