DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	For fear our friends in the North may be thinking
That because we have no brothers Goddard and Savage,
We can't have an old folk's picnic and ball,
I thought I would tell you a little about it.
For though we're a far away link in the chain,
We'er a link still and hope ever so to remain.
And we love all our old folks and honor them too.
'Twas at Mesa, November, the day twenty-nine,
Eighteen eighty nine of our Lord,
The hour was one, when the Hall bell was rung,
And the gathering quickly begun.
All the Stake was invited and I think they all came,
I mean all, who had passed the half century line—
And the widows were there in the hope to beguile
A lone hour, of their life darkened way.

	"O my Father Thou that dwellest
In the high and glorious place—"
Touched the hearts of the hearers, and wakened
Sweet thoughts of our dear Sister Snow.
B. F. Johnson the Chaplain, then opened the meeting
With prayer for the welfare of Zion.
Which was followed with singing
"Deal gently with the erring ones
We yet may win them back."
A variety progamme was then carried out—
There were speeches and songs, and a sketch of
The Mormon Battalion which was given by
Brother Brazee.

	One of our three-score and ten sang a song,
Mother Deseret we call her, and may she live long.
A serio-comic by Mabel Ann Hakes
Very much pleased the hearers, if I make no mistake
For this is from hearsay, I was not of the Band,
Who had reached the set mile stone of Wonderland,
Yet hearsay is taken in Court now I see,
When it happens to suit the said Court and his council,
Yet surely all life is a wonder or dream,
And things are but seldom what they seem.
I'm reminded of this by Judge Hake's declaration
After viewing with critic's eye the congregation at the Ball,
That there were no old folks there, unless it might be,
Philip Metz and Thomas B. Flanagan.
The time passed too swiftly and closed with the hymn
"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
And dismissed with prayer by the Chaplain.

	Then the Picnic held sway for an hour or more
With hand shake and jest by the friends of "Lang Syne."
Now what may come after from knowledge I give,
For I entered the Hall when the music tuned up,
And the call came to fill up the floor;
There were plain quadrilles and puzzling reels,
With a little waltz and Schottische:
And that dance which is vulgarly called polygamy— 
Which many indulged in and danced without fear,
For professor N—told us the Court was not here,
Perhaps I had better explain here a little,
For a change had come over the scene,
For silent and swiftly there had mingled among
The Silver, the golden and brown,
There were faces all smiles, untouched yet with care,
Whose radiance made brighter the Snowy crowns there.
We had more recitations interspersed with the dancing
More songs and more speeches too,
A fine recitation by our dear Sister Biggs,
And a fantastic polka by Aunt Lissie and Carl,
Which just brought down the house.
If you don't know Aunt Lissie, I'll just tell you here,
She is one of the genuine mothers in Zion.
With heart big enough to take in all the
Children, of this vast creation.

	I would I could speak of each one that took part,
And the lessons by each speaker given,
And pray that the lessons may never depart
From the hearts of the hearers.
"You have broke your poor old mother's heart,"
Brought tears to many eyes—
Oh would the wayward stop and think.
Ere they bow down the head with grief
That's snowy now and bent with care,
And give them joy, and not despair
May Fannie's "Voice from the poor house,"
Strike deep and take part in the struggle
To banish the demon of drink form our
Sorrow and grief stricken land.

[Column 2]

Now a word for the ones who projected
This treat for our aged, our fathers and mothers,
Much credit is due to Alma Spilsbury,
And those who so ably assisted,
May you reap what you've sown faith, honor and love.
When you stand where your guests stand today;
And the girls who with garlands entwined the Hall,
With all who aided both great and small,
To gather this ray of sunshine in
May you the blessings of heaven win.
		SEC'Y


