HEPHZIBAH.
XIII.

How buoyant are the hopes, that youth inspires!
	Yea, rich in faith, this land of fairy dreams,
Wherein one cherishes, such fond desires,
	That all the future bright with promise seems.

	Hepsie Hathaway went back to school with
out being especially impressed with anything
she had heard from the Elders; in fact the
girl was too much absorbed in her studies, and
her thirst for book knowledge to realize the
importance of the Gospel. While at home she
had been in a sort of bewilderment, it was all
so strange and sudden; astonished to find her
mother so changed, and her former school-mate
Lucy Reynolds, a convert to the new faith;
and surprised when she learned from the girl's
own lips that her engagement was broken off;
—she was scarcely able to grasp the situation,
and really things had not been clearly pre-
sented to her.


[Column 1]

	"How strangely things do happen in this
world Lucy?" said Hepsie to her friend, who
had come in to say good bye, and to confide
in Hepsie, whom she was sure would feel some
sympathy for her in the struggle she was mak-
ing. "I never could have believed you could
give up Henry's love for the sake of a differ-
ence in religion."
	"I gave him up for the truth," replied Lucy
quickly, "and I trust I shall be faithful to the
cause I have espoused; it is something higher
and better than our ministers preach Hepsie,
and cannot be compared with the favor of
men, or the riches of the world." "And yet
you could not convince Henry, with all your
eloquence, and your own heart pleading for
him too, and such devotion as you have always
shown him? I do not see how he could give you
up, I cannot understand him, nor you either
Lucy,—for that matter.  I thought love over-
came all obstacles, all differences, in rank, in
sentiment, and in religion."
	"You see now how mistaken you were my
little friend,—and I hope you will be a true
friend to me in this, for you can do me a great
favor if you will?" "What is it pray?" the
girl responded quickly. "Never mind now
dear, you will be coming home again soon,
and then I will tell you all." And so they
parted.
	During the journey back to her sister's
Hepsie was silent and thoughtful; as she had
heard so much in a few hours, and it had all
been so unexpected. Mr. severance kept up
an incessant talking about the "Mormons" his
wife seemingly acquiescing in what he said,
thought in a very different spirit from his.
Hepsie inwardly resented the way in which he
alluded to the Elders, knowing her mother
looked up to them with such reverence, and
had entertained them at her own house; she
thought her sister altogether too passive, but
she kept her own counsel until after they
reached their destination, and then she broke
out abruptly after the fashion of young girls,
"Hannah why didn't you speak up for mother's
friends when Samuel abused them so? What
right had he to call them hypocrites and de-
ceivers? What does he know about the Bible
compared to"—before she could finish the
sentence her amiable sister, always self pos-
sessed and equal to the occasion, said in the
mildest tone, "How old are you Hephzibah
Hathaway?" "O, I suppose you think I am
too young, to express myself as I do sometimes,
but really Hannah how do you know that these
men are not called to preach the Everlasting
Gospel? Mother says they are, and although
I don't know for myself I believe her testi-
mony." Mrs. Severance was confounded, she
had always taught Hepsie obedience, and now
she was puzzled how to answer the girl.
	At that moment Mr. Severance entered the
room and instantly guessed there was some
 unpleasantness, judging by the silence and the
peculiar expression on the countenances of his
wife and her sister.
	"What's the matter, are you two discussing
"Mormon" doctrine?" "Not exactly replied
Mrs. S. but Hepsie thinks mother is right."
"O, she does, and so I suppose these "Mormon"
Elders will be ducking her under the water
some of these cold days; I would rather see
her dead." "O, husband, remonstrated Mrs S.
how dreadful you talk, Hepsie has opinions of
her own, child as she is, and the best way is to
let the subject alone; she will forget it all the
sooner." Hepsie relapsed into silence; she
would not argue, with this man whom she so
thoroughly disliked, she wondered how Hannah
could respect him, much less love him, for to
her, his very presence was hateful.
	The conversation was not renewed for several
days, and things took their usual course.
Hepsie became more absorbed in her studies

[Column 2]

and no message came from home, about the
work, which was all this time spreading rapidly
in the town, only such a short distance away.
It was near the close of the term and Hepsie
had been very diligent, and was making every
preparation for the last day, expecting to pass a
successful examination; she had even spoken
to her sister about her dress, and manifested
considerable interest in the matter of her ap-
pearance, as visitors were exprected from other 
towns, and it would be quite an event in the
quiet life of a country school-girl; and Hepsie
was fully aware that Miss Andrews expected
her to carry off the honors and the prize.
	All the enthusiasm of her ambitious nature
was aroused, she could not sleep, she was rest-
less and excited, though she was also confident of
success. It was almost the first time in her
life when she had been over-anxious about her
wearing apparel, and she hunted up the finest
old lace, and the prettiest ribbons, to complete
her toilet. Meantime a letter came from  her
mother requesting her to come home, as an
Elder who had been baptizing a great number
in Boston, Salem and Lynne was expected and
Hepsie must hear him; this was rather trying,
but she kept the matter secret from her sister,
and went on with her preparations; somehow
she was not as light-hearted as before, and her
mother's urgent plea for her to come home
kept ringing in her ears.
	At last the morning came for the examina-
tion, the hall was beautifully decorated and
Miss Andrews in the gayest of spirits, and the
grandest of dresses Hepsie thought, welcomed
little Hepsie with a kiss as she came forward
with her usual good morning to the teacher
she so dearly loved, and as she saw her hesi-
tation, assured her how confident she was that
she would not fail. Hepsie was like one in
a dream all that day; she did not see the
sea of faces around her and the voices seemed
afar off, for all the time she fancied that she
could hear her mother calling to her to come
home, and in imagination she could see a little
group gathered for "the baptism," in the brook
close to the dear old place; the brook upon the
mossy banks of which she had sat so often
dreaming of the future, and where she had
plucked the sweet-scented violets in spring-
time—and watched the speckled trout darting
hither and thither; all these visions came and
went as she recited the lessons she had learned 
so perfectly for the occasion. Hepsie scarcely
knew how she got through that day—only
once was she self conscious, and that was when
Miss Andrews called upon her for the essay;—
she read it with all the eloquence and grace of
expression possible in one so young; her voice 
was clear and her tones finely modulated. It
was the climax, the crowning moment of the
day; the applause was more than her delicate
and over-wrought nature could stand, she
reeled and would have fallen had not a gentle-
man near noticing her nervous condition
quickly stepped forward, and supported her
until a glass of water was brought—when she
revived, and arousing herself realized the
ordeal, was passed; and summoning to her aid
that strong will power that proves so effectual
when called into action—she was herself again.
	Remarks from the visitors came next and
Hepsie heard all the comments and the criti-
cisms of these men of learning—on the work
of the young ladies, she felt embarrassed when
her efforts were praised and she ardently
wished for the exercises to close, that she
might be alone in her own room and "cry it
out." The prizes were distributed and the
school dismissed; almost every one of the
scholars were in tears, and the dignified teacher
much affected. After the school closed two or
three of the gentlemen with Miss Andrews
came forward to congratulate Hephzibah, ask-
ing Miss Andrews numerous questions as to
the plans for her future, and predicting a

[Column 3]

brilliant career for the little girl, if her health
did not fail under the strain of study.
	Hannah heard all, and treasured it up, often
telling her sister afterwards how proud she was
of her on that examination day; Hepsie her-
self cared little for it, her heart was elsewhere.


