TO MRS. WAREHAM, MANTI:

	It has fallen in my lot to labor in the Holy
Land. The question here, as I see it, is to gain
some foothold, first of all. That being done, a
vast field lies before us. The Jews are gather-
ing in thousands. Europeans flock here, in
order to colonize the country and to earn
money. The natives, mostly Arabs, swarm
about, and for all of these something should
be done by way of enlightening them on the
subject of the coming of our Lord and the
establishment of His kingdom. I am alone
to labor here and my capacity seems to be
but small compared to the vast labor that
should be done. But I trust in God in whose
hands are all the ends of the earth
and the inhabitants thereof. If I could
succeed only in gaining one point as a basis of
future operations, I would be happy, and con-
 sider my long journey well paid. To gain a
foothold is therefore my present endeavor.
And I hope to be able to say before leaving
Jaffa, now we have one place in the Holy Land,
from which our mission can be carried on as
God shall be pleased to direct it further. But
the first work is often the hardest and most
laborious.
	Jaffa or Joppa is the place where the
Prophet Jonah went on board a ship in order
to escape his mission to Nineveh (Jon. 1: 3.)
And here, Peter had the remarkable vision,
which commissioned him to baptize Cornelius
in Cesarea. (Ag. 10.) The house where Peter
lodged when he had this vision is still shown,
and the roof of the house is reached on an
ancient stair-case, leading from the yard of
the house and to the top of it. Here also
Peter resurrected Tabitha (Ag. 9.) Christianity
seems, therefore, very easily to have gained a
strong foothold in Jaffa, and it is to be hoped
that the spirit of the ancient inhabitants still
hovers over its present population. The Catho-
lics and the Protestants have missions here
and not without success, though their means
of making converts can not always be lauded.
	Well, I must not tire you with a too long
letter. I pray for the progress of the Relief
Society and that the spirit of God may be
poured out upon all the Saints.
		A brother in the Gospel,
			J. M. SJODAHL.
	Jaffa, Palestine, Sept. 11, 1889.


