	WOMAN'S PRIVILEGES.

	A woman's journal may very properly discuss
and advocate woman's rights, and she may lay
claim to them all as legitimately hers; more than
this, it may with equal propriety investigate what
are termed the rights of man, as relates to the
woman. In these she is equally interested as one
of the participants.
	Man from early ages of the world's history has
claimed superiority, and has oftimes allowed that
claim to assume the relations of master and slave,
and woman, man's helpmate, has been subjected
to menial servitude by her lordly master.
	The civilization of the nineteenth century has
given her an elevation more consistent with her
being and calling. But still the relics of the past
are not altogether discarded in her favor.
	It may be said and truly too, that it was the
fiat of the Creator that "he shall rule over her,"
in the relation of husband and wife, but what is
the object and nature of this rule—this right under
God to govern and control.
	Rule or government from this source never im-
plies subjugation, but always equalization. The
object of rule under the divine government is to
make the governed partakers of the blessings,
powers and privileges of those by whom they are
governed. The law of love, is the only rule that
ever gave man the right of control over any
human being. This law of love never degrades,
nor works any ill to another; never will deprive
any one of those rights with which nature and
nature's God have endowed them. It is the law
of Life.
	Even in the relation of husband and wife, that
which the nearest extinguishes individuality of
any relation that can be formed,the woman does not
neither can she lose her entity. She is still a con-
scious intelligent and an accountable being, pos-
sessing moral judgments of right and wrong,
which must influence her life, and will prompt her
acts, for which she is as strictly held accountable
as is the man for his; and her rights, even in
this relation, may not be disregarded nor be in
any-wise infringed.
	In this relation, man and woman may become
founders of a kingdom. All kingdoms have a law
given them, and all laws have their bounds and
conditions; and who can say that the woman is
not equally interested with the man in what those
laws shall be that are to govern the domain which
she has been the instrument in creating, which
exists with her and would not have existed without
her. She evidently has the right to a voice in
the making of those laws, and who shall deprive
her of that right? In and through her are de-
veloped the powers of the man.
	These principles may have an application outside
of the family circle. If they are facts to be regarded
there, they may be entitled to like regard in the
community, in society, in the state, or in the
nation. The family is the foundation of these


conditions of the race, and it is only just that wo-
man be recognized in her true character, and be
permitted to enjoy the exercise of all her rights
as an accountable free agent; in all her associa-
tions with the family of man to which she has
been assigned by her Creator.
	For man to recognize woman in her true and 
proper relation should be as pleasurable as
desirable. To associate her with all that is
elevating and profitable to man, seems to be her
legitimate place, both in social and spiritual de-
velopment. Not even a hope of future happiness
is worth cherishing that she is not identified with
in its realization.
	But while in fact she is a part of man, she is an
entity of herself, of which she cannot be deprived.
 The fact that the fundamental elements of one
being can never become those of another deter-
mines this entity, and in the light of this fact she
must be considered as well as in her relation to
man.
	As a free agent possessing a free-will she must
in her rights be respected. As a conscious being,
accountable for the wrongs of life, and susceptible
of the happiness derived from right doing, she
must not be infringed upon in that on which her
happiness depends. Man may claim her as his
own, but she is comparatively valueless to him in
any other sphere than that for which she was de-
signed.
	There is nothing that affects the happiness of
man in which the woman is not interested; no toil
or sorrow she is not willing to share. Her very
nature adapts her to her sphere, fitting her for all
its requirements. Her relations are necessary to
man's development, and while the laws and condi-
tions of her being are observed and respected by
man as her ruler, she is no failure in the purpose
of her creation, and is the glory—the crowning
gift of God to man.
