				ARTICLE III.
	Section I. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution and paying not
less than one dollar annually into the treasury of 
this Association shall become members thereof,
and shall be entitled to attend all its meetings, to
participate in all discussions that may arise and 
to receive reports and other documents published
by it. 
	Section 2. The payment of fifty dollars ($50.00)
into the treasury of this Association shall con-
stitute any citizen of the United States a Life
Member of the Association, with all the privi-
leges belonging to the regular annual members.
				ARTICLE IV.
	Section I. The officers of this Association 
shall be a President, a Vice President at Large, a 
Recording Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary,
a Treasurer, a Chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee and two Auditors. The officers named in
this Section shall be nominated by an informal 
ballot at a business session of the Annual Con-
vention of the Association. Three persons re-
ceiving the highest number of votes for any
office shall be considered the nominees of the 
Convention for that office, and the will of the As-
sociation shall be taken by a formal ballot.
	Section 2. Wherever State and Territorial
Associations auxiliary to the National-American
Association exist, the Presidents of such Asso-
ciations shall be considered Vice Presidents of
the National-American Association, representing
therein their respective States and Territories.
	Section 3. Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National American Association.
	Section 4. The President of the NATIONAL-
AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION
shall appoint a Vice President to represent on its 
Executive Board any State or Territory where no
State or Territorial Association exists auxiliary to 
the National-American Association. 
	The officers enumerated in the preceding Sec-
tions of this Article shall constitute the Executive
Committee of this Association; of these officers,
fifteen shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
tion of business.
	Section  6. The Executive Committee shall 
elect annually from the veterans of our cause ten
or more Honorary Vice presidents.
				ARTICLE V.
	This Constitution may be amended by a ma-
jority vote at any annual meeting, notice of the
amendment having been given at any preceding 
annual meeting. 
				BY-LAW I.
For the accomplishment of the object specified

[Column 2] 

in Article II of its Constitution, this Association
shall seek to concentrate the efforts of all the ad-
vocates of woman suffrage in the United States by
the following methods: (1) It shall hold annually
in Washington one meeting of delegates (accord-
ing to the basis of representation stated in By-
Law II) for the transaction of business, the elec-
tion of officers and the advocacy of its principles;
and it may hold one or more other Conventions
annually for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It 
shall form State or Territorial Associations 
auxiliary to itself in every State and Territory 
where none such now exist, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective 
States and Territories, it shall promote their local
work by every means in its power. (3) It shall 
publish tracts, speeches and other documents, and
shall furnish the same to State and local Suffrage
Associations and to individuals at actual cost.
(4) It shall prepare and circulate petitions to 
Congress and to State and Territorial Legisla-
tures on behalf of the political and civil equality
of women. (5) It may employ one or more or-
ganizers and lecturers, and take such other 
measures for the promotion of woman suffrage 
as the Executive Committee shall determine
upon, subject always to the will of the Associa-
tion.
	BY-LAW II.—BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Section I. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association, and (in a State or Territory 
where there is no State or Territorial Suffrage
organization auxiliary to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association) any local Woman
Suffrage Association may become auxiliary to the
National-American Woman Suffrage Association
by paying into the treasury of the National-Ameri-
can Association annually twenty-five cents (25) 
per member of its entire membership.
	Section 2. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer
of each auxiliary Association to send to the
Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, before January 1st in each
year, a list certified to by its President or Record-
ing Secretary of the members of said organiza-
tion for the current year. 
	Section 3. Every such Auxiliary Association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the 
Annual Convention of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one delegate
in addition for every twenty-five members above 
a membership of fifty. The delegates actually 
present may cast the whole number of votes to
which the Auxiliary Association is entitled.
	Section 4. Any State or Territorial Woman
Suffrage Association which is not auxiliary to the 
National-American Association may send one 
delegate to the annual meeting of the National-
American Association.
	Section 5. All officers of the National-Ameri-
can Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be en-
titled to one vote in all the business meetings of 
the Association.
	Section 6. Where there are two State Societies 
in one State, both of them auxiliary to the
National-American, the President of each shall 
be a Vice President of the National-American;
and each shall elect its own representative on the 
National-American Executive Board, and be en-
titled to one delegate for each twenty-five mem-
bers.
		BY-LAW III.—CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (except the delegates at Large
specified in Section 5 of By-Law II) must present
credentials properly signed by the President and 
Recording Secretary of the organization repre-
sented. Membership cards properly signed by 
the Treasurer of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association shall serve as credentials
for the members of that body who are not dele-
gates from other bodies.

[Column 3]

