EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The death of Dowager Empress Augusta of
Germany the wife of the late Emperor seems to
have been quite a sad event, although her years
were many. Her funeral was almost as elaborate
a state affair, as that of her royal husband.
	The Primaries of the People's Party will be
held in the several wards of the City Monday
evening Jan. 20, at 7. 30 p. m. for the selection of
delegates to the Convention which will be held
Monday the 27th, in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. A very great deal depends on the Pri-
maries. The delegates should be carefully and
wisely selected.
	The People's Party made a fine showing in the
torch light procession on Friday night Jan. 10,
when they turned out from the several wards in
full force, for a sort of general review. The
cavalry, marching clubs, guitar and mandolin club
and juveniles all in suitable dress with torch
lights, parading and keeping the best of time in
regular order presented quite a magnificent ap-
pearance. The music was excellent, selections
good, and the flags and banners with the brilliant
lighting of the torches and electric light with the
"beautiful snow" produced a gorgeous effect quite
dazzling. Each ward had a banner of its own, of
different design with appropriate motto, signifi-
cant of the cause of justice, equity and political
rights; some of the banners were very expensive,
made of costly material and all were very hand-
some. Everything was done in order, no carous-
ing or disturbance of any kind. Altogether the
affair was a decided success.
	The Utah Legislature met in the City Hall in
this City on Monday Jan. 13. at 2. p. m. and ef-
fected an organization of both the Council and the
House. Hon. F. S. Richards was elected Presi-
dent of the Council and F. J. Cannon Chief Clerk,
W. L. Halliday enrolling and engrossing clerk.
Other officers were also elected—Secretary Sells,
administered the oath to the newly elected of-
ficers, and prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
A committee of two Hon. A. Hatch and Hon. E.
Benner were appointed by the Council to wait
upon the Governor and inform him that the As-
sembly was organized.
	The lower House of the Legislature was or-
ganized with Hon. James Sharp Chairman, R. S.
Campbell Chief Clerk, John Boyden enrolling and
engrossing clerk. The oath of office was ad-
ministered by the Secretary, Hon. J. N. Kimball
and Hon. S. R. Thurman were appointed on the
part of the House to notify the Governor that the
Assembly was prepared to receive any communi-
cation be might have to make.
	After the transaction of some necessary busi-
ness the Committee that had been appointed to
wait upon the Governor returned and reported


that His Excellency was prepared to deliver his
message to the Assembly at such hour as might
be designated; four o'clock of the same day was
decided upon. At a few minutes past four o'clock
the members of the Council were seated in the
Hall of the House. The roll of each House was
called and the Chaplain of the Council offered
prayer. His Excellency the Governor was an-
nounced by a member of the Council Committee.
As the Governor entered the Hall the members
rose in token of respect. Pres. Richards an-
nounced that His Excellency would now deliver
to the Assembly his message. Governor Thomas
then read the document, which covers the ground
for the Legislature to work upon.


[Column 1]

