SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms December 19th 1889,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand were seated Pres. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. B. W, Smith, Mrs S. M. Kimball, and
Mrs. E. Howard the Secretary. Meeting
opened with singing.
		"We thank Thee O, God for a prophet,"
	Prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMaster. Singing,
		"Do what is right the day dawn is breaking,"
	Roll called 15 presidents, 12 counselors 2
teachers responded. Verbal reports in brief
given as follows 2nd ward Mrs. McGreger,
3rd Mrs. Frances Smith, 6th Mrs. E. Britton,
8th Mrs. E. B. Fletcher, 9th Mrs. M. Barrow,
10th Mrs. E. Paul, 11th Mrs. McMaster. 12th
Mrs. Julia Druce, 13th Mrs. L. A. Wells, 14th
Mrs. M. W.  Wilcox, 15th Mrs. M. E. Gray,
16th Mrs. Diana Reid, 17th Mrs. B. W. Smith,
18th Mrs. Ellen Barton, 19th Mrs. Ann E.
Neal, 20th Mrs Sabine 22nd Mrs R. Whipple,
Union, Mrs. Cox.
	Pres. Horne then made some instructive re-
marks upon the duties of those holding official
positions, and also to mothers in regard to the
training of children while they were very
young. Conference then adjourned until 2 p.m.
singing Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened with
singing,
		"O my Father thou that  dwellest,"


Prayer was offered by Pres. Zina D. H.
Young, singing, 	
		"O, God we raise to Thee,"
	Verbal reports were continued—1st, Ward,
Mrs. M. Steele, 7th, Mrs. Cooper, Draper, Mrs.
C. Smith, Herriman, Mrs. Crane, Sandy, Mrs.
Wilson North Jordan, Mrs. Webster, Bluff-
dale, Mrs. Madsen, Brighton, Mrs Ottilie
Schonfeld, Sugar House, Mrs. Sarah Gibson.
	After the reports were given Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon addressed the assembly, he stated that
he fully realized the importance of the or-
ganization, of the Relief Society, and what an
immense amount of good could be effected by
the sisters, “we have not time to be idle, there
is no limit to the field of good you occupy, all
the best talent can be put to use; we have a
large number of young people among us. On
the mothers depends the training of the child-
ren, and the development of the characters of
their offspring; they can impress on their minds
ideas that will be for future use. My parents
were not members of any sectarian system,
still my mother was strictly religious, inclined
that way. One of her strict precepts was to
keep the Sabbath Day, I have tried to live
to this, if I had my wish we would have
no work done on that day, no cooking, no working
of our animals, everything to be at rest. It is
a day for rest and worship: we ought not to
poison the minds of our children by unwise re-
marks against any principle of our religion.
the seeds of infidelity have been sown by un-
wise remarks; we all carry an influence with
us; can we not feel when making a visit in
some families a spirit of quiet and peace, and
if you feel bad when going in you leave happy
and at ease, in other places you will have the
opposite feeling; the atmosphere we carry with
us will be felt, we should shun evil society and
evil deeds. I feel I ought to speak in plain-
ness upon the associations of young people be-
fore marriage; it is a wide field for your
training. Chastity should be preserved as life,
far better for a girl to die than lose her virtue,
better is it for a man to die than injure a
daughter of Eve. It is from inexperience
often that such things happen, we should teach
them to look on such as next to murder, long
courtships are wrong, it leads to great evil.
I speak of this as a timely topic, create a public
opinion against long courtships, and get a
feeling of early marriages, it is a wrong idea
for our girls to get, that they must have every
luxury before marriage, love makes a desert
place a palace. It is all well enough if the
parents can get the style for their children,
but if they can't let the young people get by
degrees, the comforts of life and they will ap-
preciate them; if we would raise a healthy
race let us be chaste, mothers teach your
daughters and fathers their sons these things;
let us impress upon our children the necessity
of keeping from beverages that are not fit for
us to use, habit grows stronger as we grow old;
let us foster good thoughts, good words and
help make an improvement in ourselves and
others. I would like if we had schools in our
Territory for educating our girls in every
habit of industry, sewing, cooking, housekeep-
ing; there is no man or woman that is not im-
proved by practical labor. This is a fact that
people can be made cross or happy by cook-
ing, make a nice clean table neat and tidy, it
is little things that contribute to woman’s
happiness; we have the best fruits, the best
flowers, the best vegetables, that many women in
other countries would be very glad to get
We can all improve on the gifts God gives us,
we can develop those gifts if we try, and edu-
cate ourselves in these things; some of you
thought you could not speak in public, but you
have found out that you can by seeking to de-
velop your gift.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young said “this is the work
of woman, our Heavenly Father sent us His

[Column 2]

Son to show us the mercy we should show to
each other. We expected our souls to be fed
this day, we have been, let us not be dis-
couraged, there are bright days before us, let
us carry home with us the good teaching we
have received from Pres. Cannon, may we all
be impressed to help in this great work.
	Mrs. B, W. Smith: “I pray that God may
bless all the Latter-day Saints; this is a fast
age, everything is rolling on most gloriously."
	Mrs. S. M Kimball: “A great deal of good
has been said, we would love each other more
if we knew each other better, Brother Cannon
has said we each of us have a spirit influence,
we can detect influences when passing by habi-
tations where the spirit of God dwells.”
	Pres. Horne: “Let us put in practice what
Brother Cannon has taught us today and be
benifitted by what we have heard,” she then re-
lated an incident in her experience which was
very interesting and instructive. Women
have great influence, we are entering upon a new
era in our history. I hope we will all as a
people keep the solemm fast which has been ap-
pointed for us to attend. Brother Woodruff
sent his best regards and prayers to the sisters
by Brother Cannon.
	Conference adjourned for three months sing-
ing,
		“Guide us O, thou great Jehovah."
	Benediction by Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon.
						E. HOWARD, Sec’y.


