UTAH W. S. A.

	The Annual Meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social Hall,
Saturday Jan. 11, 1890, commencing at 3 p.m.,
Vice Pres. Mrs Nellie R. Webber in the chair.
On the platform with her was the Ch. Ex. Com
Mrs. M. Y. Dougall and Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck
Mrs. C. H. Clayton Secretary and the Treasurer
Miss Margie Dwyer were also present. Prayer
was offered by the Chaplain of the day Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Mrs Webber said that the painful 
duty devolved upon her of stating in consequence
of the death of the daughter of Mrs. Alder the
Acting President of the Association, she could
not be present, and therefore she occupied the
chair; spoke most tenderly of the sudden decease
of Miss Nettie Alder,and expressed in a few well-
chosen words her regret, and the sympathy she
felt for those so sadly bereaved.
	The secretary then read the minutes of the Con-
vention held in October last, which were ap-
proved. Secretary and Treasurer's report for the
year were then read and submitted for approval
and accepted.
	Mrs. Webber stated that in order to transact
the business in hand it would be necessary to
move that the rules they had heretofore adopted
be suspended during the afternoon a motion was
then made to that effect and carried unanimously.
	Secretary read articles 3, 4, and 9, of the By-
Laws and Mrs. E. B. Wells moved the amend-
ment of article 3 so as to include an Assistant Sec-
retary, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards moved the amendment of
article 4 that the initiation fee be 50 cts. instead
of 25 cts. seconded and carried.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne moved that the amendment
of article 9 be abolished and that it stand in its
original form, viz. that regular meetings be held

[Column 2]

once a month instead of once in three months as
per amendment; seconded and carried.
	The Chairman thought owing to the sad be-
reavement of the Acting Pres. Resolutions of
sympathy and condolence should be drawn.
	On motion of Mrs. S. M. Kimball a Committee of
three were suggeted to prepare suitable Resolu-
tions.
	A motion was made and carried that the Chair
appoint the Committee on Resolutions, the Chair
named Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Richarhs,
Mrs. M. I. Horne.
	The election of officers for the ensuing year was
the next business transacted.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt nominated Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball President of the Utah Ter. W. S. A.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Jessie J. Jones nomi-
nated Mrs. Emily S. Richards First Vice Pres.
seconded and carried. Mrs. Nellie Little nomi-
nated Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, 2d. Vice Pres. sec.
and carried. Miss Rachel Edwards nominated
Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd. Vice Pres. sec. and
carried. Mrs. E. B. Wells nominated Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beattie, Ch. Ex. Com. sec. and carried. Mrs.
P. Y. Beattie nominated Miss R. Edwards, Secre-
tary, sec. and carried. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall nomi-
nated Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, Cor. Sec. sec. and
carried. Mrs. A. D. Groesbeck nominated
Miss Margie Dwyer, Treasurer sec. and carried.
The following ladies were nominated and voted
upon separately as members of the Ex. Com.
Mesdames Cornelia H. Clayton, Margaret Mitchell,
Nellie Little, Theresa Hills, May Talmage. It
was decided that the Secretary be allowed to
choose her assistant.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressing the Chair asked
that Resolutions of Respect be drawn for Mrs.
M. J. Tanner, Pres. of Utah Co. W. S. A. re-
cently deceased. On motion of Dr. R. B. Pratt, the 
same Committee were instructed to draw both
Resolutions.
	The Committee on Resolutions withdrew and
during their absence Dr. R. B. Pratt read a
written address, which will be given in the next
issue of the paper, Dr. E. S. Barney made an
impromptu speech.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball took the chair: she felt
rather reluctant to accept the position to which
she had been elected, but intended to take hold of
the work with some system. Appreciated the
labors of the retiring officers, felt they had done
much good and were deserving of the gratitude of
all interested. Suggested that each member read
over six times the Constitution and that the Asso-
ciation take up the study of municipal govern-
ment so as to understand the nature and character
of its laws and requirements, etc., and this would
lead on and on until there would be an under-
stanning of all departments of government. This
would lead to our advancement and the enlarg- 
ing of our capacities. Remarked that she had
suggested to Mrs. Horne that the general meeting
of the ladies to be held next Saturday be turned
into a suffrage meeting and asked an expression
of the views of those present.
	Dr. Pratt acquiesced in the movement.
	On motion of Miss Edwards vote of thanks
was tendered to the officers of the past year.
	Mrs. Webber expressed herself in favor of the
suggestion made by Mrs. Kimball, read a portion
of a Circular and thought that to accomplish any-
thing creditable it would be necessary to have a
large enrollment of members, also sufficient means 
to send Delegates to the Convention at Washing-
ton to represent our own organization instead of
having others appointed to represent us.
	Mrs. Dougall, Mrs. Dye, Mrs. Lucy W. Kim-
ball and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, each made in
teresting and appropriate remarks in brief.
	The Committee returned and Mrs. E. B. Wells
in behalf of the Com., submitted the following:

	At the regular meeting of the Utah Ter. Wo-

[Column 3]

man Suffrage Association held Jan. 11, 1890 in
the Social Hall in Salt Lake City the following
Resolutions were submitted:
	Resolved,—that the officers and members of
this Association in annual session assembled,
hereby tender to Mts. Lydia D. Alder their sin-
cere thanks for the valuable services she has 
rendered the Woman Suffrage Assoication of
Utah during the past year as the Acting Presi-
dent,
	And we do hereby earnestly express our grate-
ful appreciation of her arduous labors and the grand
efforts she has so cheerfully made for the ad-
vancement and success of this organization.

	Resolved, further that the officers and members
of this Association extend their heartfelt sym-
pathy and condolence to their late Acting Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, who has by the hand
of an over-ruling Providence been called to sus-
tain such a severe affliction in the recent death of
a loving and affectionate daughter, and,
	Resolved, that we do hereby desire to most
fervently express the deepest sentiments of regret,
and sorrow for the mother and family who have
thus been called to part with one so near and
dear; and we solemnly beseech our Father in
heaven, to pour out the comforting influences of
His Holy Spirit in this hour of sorrow and mourn-
ing over this sad bereavement.
	Resolved: That a copy of these Resolutions
be placed upon the records of this Association
and a copy be forwarded to Mrs. Lydia D. Alder,
and that copies be sent to the 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and others papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect and Condolence adopted
by the Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Ter.
Jan. 11, 1890, to the memory of Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner, late President of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah Co., who died in Provo Jan.
8, 1890.
	Whereas,—It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst by a sudden edict Mrs. M.
J. Tanner. who since the organization of the W.
S. A. of Utah Co., has served efficiently as
President of that branch of the W. S. A. of Utah
Ter., and,
	Whereas:—We feel heartily desirous and in
duty bound while acknowledging with due rever-
ence the Divine source of this call, to express to
all branches of this Association our sorrow and
also the respect in which Mrs. Tanner was held,
	Therefore:—Be it Resolved by the W. S. A. of
Utah in regular session assembled that we have
sustained in the death of Mrs. M. J. Tanner the
loss of an earnest laborer and an efficient officer
in our cause.
	Resolved:—That we hereby express our heart-
felt sorrow and sympathy for the immediate 
members of the Utah County branch of this Asso-
ciation whose chief officer has been taken away.
	Resolved:—That we extend our sincere con-
dolences to the bereaved family of the deceased.
	Resolved:—That these Resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Association and copies
thereof be forwarded to the family of the departed,
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the Utah En-
quirer and other papers for publication.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
		M. ISABELLA HORNE,
			Committee.
	On motion of Mrs. Webber the Resolutions
were accepted, and she also moved that they be
published in the EXPONENT and other papers and
that a copy be sent to Mrs. Alder, and placed
upon the records of the Association.


On motion of Dr. Pratt the Resolutions were
endorsed as read.
	An invitation was extended to all to join the
Association, and they were informed it was time
to renew memberships. Meeting adjourned for
one month, prayer by the Chaplain.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


