NOTES AND NEWS:

	The King of Siam has just married twenty
new wives.
	Madam Carnot gave a Christmas party to
four hundred poor children at the Elysees in
Paris.
	Women have been admitted to the bar in
all the New England States except New 
Hampshire and Vermont. 
	Miss Annie Peterson has been awarded the
first degree of doctor of music which any lady
has gained at the Royal University of Dublin.
	Mrs. Leland Stanford, of California, has ob-
tain the permission of the Emperor William II
to have a copy made of the "Sistine Madonna"
in Dresden gallery.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards will publish an
article in the January Century, giving the first
popular description of the recent extraordinary
discoveries in Bubastis, Egypt.
	Three Austrian women, sisters, have re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Medicine, at
Berne, Switzerland, and two of them are now
practising in New York.
	A Woman's Press Club has been formed in
New York, with Mrs. D. G. Croly, ("Jennie
June") as President, Mrs. Lippincott ("Grace
Greenwood") First Vice President, and Mrs.
Mary E. Bryan, Second Vice President.
	Roberty Browning and Mrs. Browning were
among the early advocates of equal rights for
women in England, and while others are
mourning for him as the great poet, the advo-
cates of woman suffrage will sorrow for him
also as the friend of women. So says the
Woman's Journal and so say we.
	The sphere of woman continues to enlarge.
The latest evidence comes from Connecticut,
where a young woman has just been given a
license as a dispensing druggist. It deserves
to be added that she not only got her license
but passed the best examination that has yet
been had before the examining board.—Boston
Herald.
	At the University of Zurich last year twenty-
nine women studied medicine, fourteen philos-
ophy, and two political economy. In London
there were forty-eight women medical students.
In Paris there were one hundred and eight, of
whom eighty three were Russians, eleven Eng-
lish, seven French, three Americans, two
Austrians, one Roumanian, one Turkish.


