TREATMENT OF CHILREN.

	It is now about six years since the article
"Washed to Death" was published in the EX-
PONENT defining the injurious effects of wash-
ing little children all over every day, or giving
them a daily bath, and showing that it re-
duces the vitality, takes out the electricity and
weakens the whole system of children who are
thus bathed, and recommending that they be
bathed all over but once a week, using
spirituous liquors to rub the body.
	Many since then have become convinced of
the bad effects of bathing children so much
as it is customary to do, and have adopted
and acted upon the recommendations given in
the article above mentioned, until they are 
now so firmly convinced that nothing could
induce them to return to the former habit of
giving the daily bath. Their experience has
demonstrated to them that their children are
healthier, stronger and more vigorous, their
muscles firmer, the body more plump and solid
and that they are less liable to take cold.
	The grip of the fingers and strength to stand
better is noticeable, and the weaknesses that
most children have are not known by them,
but they can better stand teething and other
ailments that children are subject to, while
the death rate with them is far less than
among those who are washed so much. They
have also a more positive and intelligent look
in the eye and a livelier expression of coun-
tenance.
	Since "Washed to Death" was published I
have explained to many mothers of my ac-
quaintance the injury done to children through
washing them so much, and many, some of
whom were quite hard to convince of the hurt-
fulness of the old custom are now strong advo-
cates of the weekly bath and grateful for the
knowledge they have attained.
	The Allwise Creator made man perfect in
his organization and the electric glow on the
skin at birth should not be washed out and
the system relaxed.
	I have made this subject a study and can
speak with assurance that the greatest injury
is done to children by bathing them so often
while they are under two years old.
	Oh! that mothers and those having the care
of children would use good common sense in
all things, study and act in comformity to the
laws of nature, then they would not need to
consult a physician so often. They would
rear their children to enjoy a full develop-
ment of vigor, health and strength that they
might fill up a long life in usefulness with-
out so much feebleness, pain and sorrow.
		S. F. ATWOOD.
	Kamas, Nov. 15, '89.


Mrs. Jenness Miller and Miss Jenness are
about to open a physical culture school in New
York, which looks to the realization of Edward
Bellamy's idea, "that the millennium for which
the world waits is to come with woman's per-
fect developent." Methods of development
which aim at mere muscular culture will be
discarded, and the drill will consist of poising,
breathing exercises and gestures, the principles
that underlie correct postures in walking,
standing, sitting and talking. The pupils will
be drilled two hours daily, five days in the
week for grace, force, firmness, health and
beauty.


