The human conscience is not a fixed or static condition of mind. It is true, we are born with a right balance or conscience with which to determine what is right and what is wrong, but environment and education greatly modify, or even change altogether, this inherited standard of spiritual values. Our Father implanted within us at our spiritual birth his own perfect standard of right and wrong, and we brought that with us when we came to this earth. The conscience is an instinctive knowledge of law and its consequences. Here is a moral law. If we break it, we pay the price; if we keep it, we enjoy the reward, and it is this inherited knowledge of law or "conscience" which is a part of our divine inheritance.

Conscience, however, is modified by tradition, by the unconscious education of childhood, and by our own will in regard or disregard of its promptings. A man's conscience varies with the acts of a man, and descends with him to the lowest depths, justifying him in his actions; or ascends with him to the greatest heights, glorifying him with its rewards, yet constantly prodding him to higher moral attainment, to richer spiritual rewards.

It is a mistake to imagine that men who do wrong and women who sin know that they are doing wrong and feel that they are sinning. Talk to the lowest criminal that walks the street or languishes in a prison cell. He justifies himself in the course he has taken. If it were not so, his waking hours would be unendurable.

As long as a man's conscience is sensitive and pricks him making him feel that he is in the wrong, at times, so long does he possess the power of repentance and reformation; but criminals, apostates, degenerates, in short all types of men, from the highest to the lowest, modify and change the conscience to fit their life conditions and to permit them to enjoy a measure of self justification.

Many wicked men are tender to their wives and mothers, careful and cautious in their guardianship of children. They salve conscience, as it were, with the practice of fine domestic virtues; while some very good men are oppressive in the treatment of their wives and families. Such good men unconsciously justify their smaller domestic sins because of their larger personal virtues and moralities.

With the criminal as with the good man the blame for his wrongdoing always is laid upon the other fellow or upon society. There are fixed moral laws, as perfect and as rigid as are the laws of light and heat, but our knowledge of those laws depends upon the adjustment of our lives in conformity with them. It is this little bit of psychology that we mothers and grandmothers should become familiar with in dealing with our children and grandchildren.

The child is a savage, or rather, he has the primitive instincts of a savage, to take what he wants where he finds it. Unselfishness and a quick understanding of the rights of others must always be taught by the mother or guardian directly or indirectly. Some children are born with naturally unselfish and courteous dispositions, yet the law of survival prompts every child to seize that which it desires no matter who suffers in consequence.

Even little babies, however, can be taught to be thoughtful of the rights of others, to be quiet while grandma is sick, to give the rocking chair to grandpa, and as they grow older children can easily be taught never to impose upon each other nor to take that which belongs to brother or sister, mother or friend, school mate or stranger, without permission and courteous request.

Neglect of this primal law too often results in a dishonest foundation for character which will canker the developing child and will even destroy future usefulness and be a menace to civic peace. Might is never right unless it is founded on just and moral laws.

Children who see parents cheat street car companies out of a transfer, railroad companies out of a ticket, shopkeepers and business men out of every possible cent; who hear parents tell half truths to neighbors, and watch fathers cheat in their dealings in business or trade. What can you expect of such children? They feel themselves perfectly justified in stealing the neighbors' eggs and fruit, their companions' books, pencils, rubbers and playthings. What father does and what mother says is always all right to children. EDITORIAL. 
What ideals are we setting up for these modern children of ours? Do we justify ourselves in drinking a cup of tea? In lying about social matters to our friends? In appropriating lost articles and keeping borrowed books or other things? If we do, it is small use for us to tell the children to be temperate, honest and truthful. Sermons from the pulpit, lessons from the Sunday school, attendance at Mutuals, are useless, practically, unless the home life is carefully guarded and the children are faithfully taught daily and regularly in the small honesties of daily life.

If children steal fruit or eggs, they should return them and pay for them. If they cheat in marbles, and father should find out whether they do or not, father should shame the boys out of such a pernicious habit. If girls borrow each other's or mother's finery without permission, the act should be noted at once, apologized for, and the unjust act should never be repeated. We should never "help ourselves" to anybody's property, under any circumstances, unless due permission is asked and granted.

We mothers and grandmothers should scrupulously guard the rights of our children, our hired help, and the rights of ourselves. Do not think these are trifling matters. They lie at the very root of our life mission, sisters and friends.

NEW BOOK ON THE "MORMONS." Dr. James E. Talmage's new book is a compilation of the clear and lucid articles which have been appearing in the press of the country from the famous pen of Dr. James E. Talmage. These are now issued under the title of "The Vitality of Mormonism." A happy title for the book would have been, Half Hours With the Gospel, for each article can be read in just about that amount of time. They are eminently modern in tone and are delightfully easy to read and absorb.

Perhaps the greatest service done by Dr. Talmage in this series of spiritual expositions of the principles of the gospel is the arrangement in many and varied aspects and the rich array and limitless scope of the truths, and spiritual laws, together with the modernizing of these age-old principles. Truth persists but its approach varies with times, people, and moods. Dr. Talmage has succeeded in placing lucidly before the world, and not only before the world, but also before our own young people, the eternal and divine principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

We welcome this contribution to our home Church works.

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October.

"And it came to pass that I Nephi spake much unto them concerning these things: Yea, I spake unto them concerning the restoration of the Jews in the latter days:
And I did rehearse unto them the words of Isaiah, who spake concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of Israel: and after they were restored they should no more be confounded, neither should they be scattered again.
And it came to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that they were pacified and did humble themselves before the Lord."

We are living in a day of fulfilment. We are seeing the culmination of many great and glorious things and the beginning of other things whose culmination will be vastly more glorious than the things of the present time.

As this is a woman's organization for which the lessons are being prepared perhaps there will be no objection to illustrating our point of fulfilment from the things that have occurred to give a larger life and fuller freedom to women. It is near a century now since the first seminary opened its doors to women. It is lacking just eight years of a century since the first high school for girls was opened in Boston, amid a storm of opposition. It is considerably less than a century since Oberlin, the first college to open its door to women, saw fit to admit them, and yet today a woman may do work in practically every college in America and Great Britain.

It is now fifty years since women first obtained suffrage on an equal footing with men; but today in many European countries the women have suffrage and those who have not yet obtained it are making a vigorous fight. Sweden and France have recently introduced bills into their respective national assemblies asking for the enfranchisement of women. The United States is calling vigorously for the ratification of the federal amendment by thirty-six states, that the suffrage amendment may be written into the constitution.

So far as North America and Europe are concerned the fight for suffrage appears to be nearing its close. GUIDING LESSONS. 
Simultaneously, almost, the curtain goes down on Turkish rule in the East, freeing the land of promise of ancient Israel from the most cruel and persistently warlike people that this world has known since the advent of the Son of Man.

The peace pact recently signed by the allied nations and Germany, distinguished because of the great number of nations that took part in its making, has so disposed of Palestine that a new era lies before her, "the dawning of a brighter day majestic rises on the world."

And this new day was seen and prophesied of by both Lehi and Nephi and by Isaiah before their time. If Great Britain is made mandate for Palestine, as many have believed she would be, because of her great experience and close proximity to Egypt, then we may know that the day of the gathering is at hand.

Soon will the inspired prayer of Elder Orson Hyde be both prophecy and prayer. And as we anticipate this event do we not again see God moving in a mysterious way his wonders to perform?

It is said that fifty years ago the Emperor of Japan took for his slogan, "Japan shall know everything that is known by any other nation in the world." All well-informed people know that Japan absorbed that slogan. She is one of the most advanced nations in the world today. And there is little that any other nation knows which Japan through her diligence has not acquired.

So likewise have the Jews absorbed the learning of the world. Palestine will realize as her children gather to rebuild, that they have brought knowledge from every clime where they have been scattered.

What does Great Britain know that the Jew of the British Isles has not learned?

What have France, Spain and Italy to give the world that a Jew or group of Jews have not absorbed? Have Russia, Austria or Poland any strong national characteristic or gift that do not reflect themselves in the achievements of their Jewish subjects? America, boasting of inventive genius and business insight, has many able representatives of her business ability among her Jewish citizens. Like Shakespeare's Shylock they have learned all things that their gentile neighbors know, but they will know even more than their instructors. Shylock said, "the villainy you teach me will I practice, but I will better my instruction." It is to be hoped that in the rebuilding of Palestine those sons and daughters of the ancient Hebrews will practice only the good they have learned from their gentile brethren, bettering it with all the power God shall add unto them. And are we not on the very threshold of the fulfilment of great and mighty prophecy, prophecy uttered many centuries before the advent of Christ in the land of Jewish nativity, and again reiterated on this continent by Lehi and Nephi? Truly God doth nothing unless he reveals it to his servants the prophets, and truly were Lehi and Nephi inspired of Almighty God, for the prophecies they utter fail not.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Discuss the proposition: We are living in a day of fulfilment, and tell of the culmination of some things not mentioned in the lesson. 2. Read in class Elder Orson Hyde's prayer offered on the Mount of Olives. 3. Show how it is both prayer and prophecy. 4. Give instances of Latter-day Zion being built up by persons gathering from many foreign climes. 5. Find out if you can who did the cabinet work on the tabernacle organ in Salt Lake City. From what country did he come? Who built the organ? Musical part? From what country did he come? 6. From what country did Karl G. Maeser come? 7. In what land was John Hafen, the painter, born? 8. What might British Jews contribute to the building up of Palestine? 9. What might Italian Jews contribute? 10. What might Jews from the United States of America contribute?

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in October.

LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in October.

FRENCH SURNAMES. The history of France. The Catholic Church as a source of surnames. The Crusaders. Not until after Caesar's time do we know anything about that rich country, which is called France. A people known as Gauls, who were of Celtic race, then inhabited all the district north of the Alps and west of the Rhine. When the apostate Catholic religion became popular in the fourth century the priests began a system of recording vital statistics, but these records are hidden behind locked doors in the Vatican in Rome. When the Crusaders went to Palestine in the sixteenth century the custom of surnaming people became very popular; and later the government made the custom a part of the law of France. The evolution of French surnames followed the usual course. By Luther's time, 1517, there was a pretty well established method of surnaming the French people. Like all other European nations this custom began with the titled people and the aristocratic classes. The trades unions next made it popular for artisans to adopt surnames and then the military men were obliged to adopt them because of the necessity of keeping track of the many soldiers who made up such a large part of the French population for centuries. The government itself finally took a strong hand in this matter and various laws have been passed concerning the registers of both the church and the state, which now preserve the vital statistics of this country.

Unlike most other European nations the French government passed a law two centuries ago which made it unlawful for people to name their children even with Christian names unless chosen from a list issued by the state. The sources and divisions of surnames follow the same general outline found in other European countries. First we have the Patronymic, or father's name. These are the most numerous with their associated nicknames. We have for instance, Henry, Jacques, Robert, Guillaume, Michel, Paul, Pierre, Renaud, Richard and Simon. Place names come next in point of evolution and frequency. De La (of the) and Du have been tacked on to every conceivable variation and estate. De la Fontaine, Daix (for d'Aix), Danjou (for d'Anjou), Descamps, Duval, De la Motte, and Chateaubriand, etc.

Trade names are equally familiar and frequent, cuisinier (cook), Boulanger (baker), Roulier (teamster), Le Feuvre (blacksmith), Lemaistre, Le Meunier (the miller), Escuyer (followed his master to war to care for his horse), Granger (tenant of a "grange" or farm), Charpentier (carpenter), Charbonnier (charcoal maker), Fournier (tender of the "fournier" or baking oven used in common by a village), Berger (shepherd), Botteron, Celier, Cuvier (maker of "cuves," wooden vessel to wash in), Sellier (bootmaker), Bossard (maker of clothes brushes, etc.). Titles sometimes furnish surnames, for instance: Chevalier (knight), Lecomte (count), Duc, Prince, Roy (King), Seigneur (Lord), Curé (Priest), etc. Nicknames were given as in other countries very frequently. Descriptive names also were used by the French people. Colors, size and conditions helped to determine what nickname should continue. There are many French names among the Huguenot refugees who settled in England and later in America and some of these are very familiar even here in Utah. We might illustrate these Huguenot names as follows: There are such names as Lambert, Godfrey, Gilbert, Gervase, Michael, Martin, Roger, Charles and the like that would become English at once without alteration. But there are others with which we are familiar: Percy occurs repeatedly. Roussel, Dherby, an immigrant in 1684, would drop the "h" and become Derby. There are several Smiths in the lists, presumably arriving from the Netherlands. The old Norse name of Houssaye comes in several times; so do Hardy, More, Hayes, Rose, Mercer, Marchant, Mourtis, Car, Emery, Nisbet, Neel, Ogelby, Boyd, Blondell, Cooke, Pratt, Lee, King, Johnson, Stockey, Davies, Best, Kemp, Wilkins, Pryor, Fox, Hudson (soon to shed the "h"), White, Bush, Greenwood, etc. Langue would speedily become Lang, and Boreau become Borough; Grangier be converted into Granger, and Goudron into Gordon; Guillard would become Gillard, and Blond be written and pronounced Blunt.

How some of the names given above that seem to be distinctly English such as Greenwood and Highstreet, come into the Huguenot lists is puzzling; and we can only suppose that the immigrants translated their French names into the corresponding English, as Boisvert into Greenwood, and Hauterue into Highstreet.

QUESTIONS. Who were the Gauls? What were the original boundaries of Gaul? Of France? Who was Charlemagne? What customs of surnaming were followed in France? Give illustrations.

Note: The Genealogical Stake and Ward Committee are requested to finish up all family surname cards and return to Genealogical Society of Utah. Where cards are needed send to the Genealogical Society of Utah, who will furnish them free.

LESSON 4. Home Courses. Fourth Week in October.

In our present-day manner of living, in the family group, a large share of the proper feeding of the race and therefore of the development and maintenance of physically strong men and women is a problem of the home, more particularly a big problem for the housewife who is responsible for the meals set before the family. This big problem is moreover a difficult one, first, because there is such a confusing abundance, a bewildering maze of food materials from which must be chosen just those articles that are best adapted to the needs of the several members of the family; second, because appetite alone is not a dependable guide in the matter of eating. That the appetite cannot be trusted alone, is evidenced by the many examples not only of indulgence in alcoholic beverages but also in food excesses such as of sugar or meat and in the frequent cases of individuals liking too small a number of food articles or disliking those that should be staples. Yet the problem of good meals for the family must be solved.

Now, the greater assurance that the family meals will meet the needs of the individual members follows only when the housewife keeps constantly in mind, first, what food is and second, that the primary function of food is to meet the body needs rather than to satisfy cultivated tastes. It is only under such circumstances that she can be sure that at least each day's food and if possible each meal supplies the materials necessary to meet these three constant needs of the body, viz., first, energy; second, tissue building material; third, regulation of body processes.

The most generally accepted definition of food is: "Food is anything which when taken into the body will yield energy or build tissue or regulate body processes." Foods as we eat them—apples, milk, eggs, meat, etc.—are made up of certain substances we call "nutrients." In all the great variety of foods we eat there are only six of these so-called "nutrients." By name these nutrients are: carbohydrates, that is all forms of starches and sugars; protein; fat; water; minerals; and vitamins. Minerals are sometimes called ash because they are left unconsumed when foods are burned. Eight minerals are needed in the body; these are—iron, sulphur, phosphorus, calcium or lime, sodium, chloride, magnesium, potassium.

Vitamins have been discovered in food only in the last few years and we know very little about them other than that they are necessary for life and growth of the young and for the health of the adult person as well as of the child. It is just as desirable and important that the woman who plans meals for herself or others become familiar with these nutrients and their uses in the human body as it is that the seamstress know what hems, gathers, belts, plackets, seams, are in a garment and what purposes they serve.

Group 1? Foods Good for Protein. Cheese, cream or cottage; Lean meat of all kinds, beef, pork, fish, poultry, mutton; Milk, whole, skim and buttermilk; Eggs; Legumes, peas, beans of all kinds, lentils, peanuts, soybeans; Cereals (give a moderate amount).

Group 2? Foods Good for Fat. Olive oil; Mazola, and other salad oils; Cooking fats, as lard, crisco, etc.; Butter and oleomargarine; Fat meats; Egg-yolk; Nuts, most kinds.

Group 3 ? Foods Good for Carbohydrates. (a) Starches Cereals, wheat, corn, oats, rice, rye, barley, buckwheat; and all preparations made from cereals, as flours, meals, grits, starches, macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, crackers, breakfast foods, bread, cakes, cookies, noodles. Starchy vegetables, as potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, pumpkin, carrots, parsnips; Bananas, Ripe beans of all kinds, lentils, and peanuts.

(b) Sugars Granulated, brown, loaf, or powdered sugar; Honey; Molasses, syrups of all kinds; Fruits canned, dried, jams, jellies, and fruit butters; Milk.

Group 4? Foods Good for Minerals. Milk; Egg-yolk; All vegetables and fruits, especially spinach, lettuce, carrots, peas, cabbage, celery, apples, oranges, berries, pineapple, grapes; Bran of cereals, for example, in graham flour, rolled oats, cracked hominy, bran biscuit or pudding.

Group 5 ? Foods Good for Vitamins. (a) Milk, and milk products, especially butter, cream, and whole milk cheese; Meat (a small amount); Eggs; Greens of all kinds; (b) Vegetables of all kinds; Fruits all kinds.

Note. ? The vitamins found in foods under (a) occur in a smaller number of foods than in case of (b), so more care must be taken that foods in the (a) part of Group 5 are used sufficiently.

Notice that milk is placed in each of the five groups. Eggs are at once an excellent source of protein, fat, minerals, and vitamins, if the whole egg or the yolk alone be used. Vegetables and fruits are valuable for minerals, carbohydrates and vitamins. Cereals furnish an abundance of carbohydrates in the form of starch, a moderate amount of protein, and if the bran is contained in the cereal preparation, minerals are also supplied.

Since it requires all six of the nutrients to meet the three body needs, it is imperative that each day's meals include at least one representative from each of the above five groups as well as water. Water should be used freely; adults taking about three quarts in twenty-four hours. It may be drunk at meals as well as between meals if it is not taken to soften the food. To take water into the mouth while food is in it, is at once bad physiology and bad manners.

In the adult's diet special thought must be given to the use of fresh fruits and vegetables and top milk. No day should be allowed to pass without vegetables and fruits having been served. One pint of milk for each adult per day is a good allowance. If fresh milk cannot be procured, then condensed or powdered milk is a desirable substitute for the fresh product. Some people cannot take milk unless in cooked form.

***

That it is imperative to use in each day's meals, and in each meal if possible at least one representative of each group of foods as given above, is shown by an examination of the three body needs and noting the nutrients required in each case.

(Note. ? T means 1 level tablespoon; c means 1 level cup (pint size); t means teaspoon.)

Sugar, 2 T; Corn starch, 3 T; White bread, 1 slice, size 1? inch x 3? in. x 3? in.; Cornflakes, 1? c; Grapenuts, 3 T; Shredded wheat, 1 biscuit; Rice, 2 T raw, ? c cooked; Cream of wheat, 2? T raw, ? c cooked; Rolled oats, 3? T raw, ? c cooked; Potato, 1 medium; Whole milk, ? c; Skim milk, 1 c: Cauliflower, 1 small head; Spinach, 14 ounces or ? gal. raw; Lima beans, 2? T cooked; Peanuts, 12 or 16 kernels; Almonds, 12 kernels; Apple, 1 large; Banana, 1 medium; Orange, 1 large; Raisins, 1? T, seeded; Dates without stones, 5 to 7; Whole egg, medium 1?; Cheese, 1 cu. inch; Butter, 1 T

556 .

Scientific experiment has also worked out with considerable accuracy the number of calories required by persons of different ages as well as of adults doing muscular work of different degrees of severity. The following tables* summarize the generally accepted figures:

Age Calories per Lb. Calories per Day

for girls 2,300 to 3,000 for boys

for girls 2,300 to 3,000 for boys

Requirements for the man of average size (weighing about 150 lbs.), doing a moderate amount of work (for example a carpenter's work), have been calculated as follows:

Eight hours of sleep at 65 calories 520 calories
Two hours' light exercise (walking) at 170 calories 340 " 
Eight hours' carpenter's work at 240 calories 1,920 "
Six hours' sitting at rest at 100 calories 600 "

Total food requirement for the day 3,380 calories

One-third we may safely count on coming from the bread, cereals, and vegetables that we should have in this daily diet.

The regulation of body processes is effected together by water, minerals and vitamins. All these nutrients must be constantly present in proper amounts if the heart is to beat as it should, the food be properly digested, absorbed and used in the body, the waste materials excreted, the breathing go on as it should, and all parts of the body work together in harmony.

We "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition" (page 186), by Dr. H. C. Sherman.