attempt to suggest amounts of these regulating nutrients only in the case of the water, as has been said about three quarts for a grown person per day. But we must take care that each day's food contains several articles that will furnish vitamins and minerals.

Suggestions for planning adequate meals for the family may be made more concrete by the following menus:

Questions for Lesson One.
1. What are the three advantages of planning meals?
2. What are nutrients? How many are there? Name them.
3. What are the body's needs that are met by food?
4. What is the special importance of vitamins? What foods furnish vitamins?
5. What nutrients are supplied by a salad of apples, raisins and nuts, with a dressing of whipped cream?
6. What nutrients will be furnished by bread pudding, using bread, sugar, egg, milk and flavoring in its making?

Questions for Lesson Two.
1. How many of the nutrients should be in each day's meals? Why?
2. What determines the amount of energy-yielding foods which a grown person needs? Name six good food sources of energy. To what nutrient does each owe this power to yield energy?
4. Name six foods that will have a good share in the building of body tissues and tell what nutrient in each is good for tissue building.
5. Name six foods that will have a good share in regulating body processes and tell why each helps.

*Children's menu planned by students in special diets class, U. A. C.

Smoking cars for women will be run on some of the eastern roads within the next few years, New York railroad men predict. The vestibules and observation platforms on many trains running to New England during the college commencement period this year were filled to overflowing with young girls and women puffing cigarettes.

The Best Home Drink
Even a good meal is made better by the addition of a cool, invigorating beverage. You should be sure it is pure and wholesome and that it has food values. Such a drink is Nekto. It becomes a part of the meal. It contains a very large proportion of food properties and is healthful to a marked degree. That's why doctors recommend it as a food as well as a drink.

Buy of Your Grocer or Druggist.
Made by CULLEN ICE & BEVERAGE CO. Salt Lake.

Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS

Ernest Lambourne SALT LAKE'S LEADING FLORIST 67 South Main Phone Was. 1516 Salt Lake City

Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN'S 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment
Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY

THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah

"DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City

Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith.

The Utah State National Bank UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c.

features quick and efficient service.

Officers Heber J. Grant, President Wm. R. Wallace, Vice President Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cashier Alvin C. Strong,