Guide Lessons
=============

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in February. BOOK OF MORMON LESSON. PROPHECY FULFILLED AGAIN. Our lesson in the March issue, 1918, considered the prophecy in II Nephi 10:10-14: "But behold, this land, saith God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon this land, "And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon this land who shall raise up unto the Gentiles; "And I will fortify this land against all other nations; "And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God; "And he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words." In the March, 1918, lesson we told the story of Maximilian, the Austrian archduke, who attempted to found an empire in Mexico. We made record of the fact that Maximilian was the victim of a revolution that finally resulted in his execution, and that Napoleon III, of France, who inspired and sustained Maximilian, was forced to abdicate after the French defeat at Sedan. It is scarcely nine months since that lesson was published, yet once again we stand face to face with the fulfillment of this very remarkable, and to the Latter-day Saints, this most heartening, prophecy during all these dark days of the present war. A period of some 270 days only has elapsed, and yet it has been sufficient time for us to witness the overthrow of another combination which has sought to dictate and dominate policies in the new world — the land our heavenly Father designated as a Land of Promise. And this brings us to the special theme of today's lesson. Francis Joseph, the brother of Maximilian, who touched the button that set into motion the military forces of Central Europe, died before the end of the war came; his throne tottered under the weight of a myriad of discontents of the many peoples who formed his empire, and the added sorrows of war. GUIDE LESSONS. 53 The Austrian throne could not fall to Francis Joseph's son, for his son had met a tragic death; it could not fall to his brother's son, for he, too, had been the victim of a tragedy; it came perforce to his unfortunate grand-nephew. No pomp nor ceremony marked his entry into place; one course only, his — "to take arms against a sea of troubles, and by opposing," seek to "end them." The recent surrender of Austria to the Allied forces saw the once proud Austrian empire, that in her supreme hour had dominated Europe, break in pieces. It saw its Emperor, Charles I of Austria, the last of the Hapsburgs, a reigning house for 900 years, flee from the capital city with bag and baggage. A few days later, he returned to abdicate, and to beg to be allowed to live as a private citizen in Vienna. Yet this boon, poor as it is, may not be granted. The collapse of the German empire followed that of the Austrian empire with amazing rapidity. On the 9th of November came the announcement that Kaiser William the II and Crown Prince Frederick William had abdicated. The 10th of November marked the flight of the former Emperor into Holland, and on the 11th, the signing of the armistice that marked the conclusion of hostilities between Germany and the Allies. Although William has sought refuge in Holland he must be ill at ease, and he appears to be a most unwelcome guest. It is related that soon after William's accession to the throne he paid a visit to Oscar, king of Sweden. Oscar's chamberlain asked him later what he thought of the new monarch. The reply came, "He is a second Nero." Since the outbreak of the present war, William has often been compared with Attila, the terrible Hun. A writer in the New York Times says, "Genius or paranoiac, the most hated ruler of modern times." Thousands of people are clamoring today not that he be banished to St. Helena, as was Napoleon the Great, but that he be tried before a military tribunal, condemned and executed for his high crimes against justice and humanity. The editor of a New York daily pays respect to Charles the I of Austria, and William the II of Germany, in the following language: "As the Hapsburg vanishes, what regret, what good word can be called forth from anybody? Of the Hapsburg as of the Hohenzollern, his accomplice and master, master no longer, Shakespeare's Richard III is the best interpreter: "My conscience hath a thousand several tongues, And every tongue brings in a several tale, And every tale condemns me for a villain. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Perjury, perjury, in the highest degree, Throng to the bar, crying all 'Guilty! guilty!' I shall despair, there is no creature loves me; And if I die, no soul will pity me; Pray, wherefore should they? since that I myself Find in myself no pity to myself." And so once again are the sacred words of the Book of Mormon made to triumph. "And I will fortify this land against all other nations: "And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God." We close this lesson with a sentence borrowed from our March lesson, 1918: "How sure are the prophecies of God, how complete their fulfillment!" QUESTIONS. 1. Tell in brief the story of the fall of Archduke Maximilian. The Relief Society Magazine, March, 1918, gives a much more complete account than is given in this lesson. 2. In what way have the Central Powers, for over four years at war with the Allied powers, sought to impair the liberties of America? 3. To what does the word Hapsburg refer? 4. How many centuries have the Hapsburgs been on thrones in Europe? 5. What Hapsburg monarch died during the present war? 6. How came it that his grand-nephew ascended to the throne? 7. To what does the name Hohenzollern refer? 8. Tell the story of the fall of the last of the Hapsburgs. 9. Tell the story of the fall of Emperor William II, of Germany. 10. What traits of character in William II have led people to class him with Nero? 11. Show how the collapse of the Central powers, and the victory of the Allied Powers has again fulfilled Book of Mormon prophecy. 12. What is socialism? 13. How does socialism compare with Bolshevikism? 14. What is the United Order? 15. What can you say about the United Order as set forth in the Book of Mormon? GUIDE LESSONS. 55 LESSON II. Work and Business. Fourth Week in February. LESSON III. Genealogy. SCOTCH AND IRISH SURNAMES. (See Chapter 20, Surname Book). Teachers' Outlines. 1. Scotch and Irish are branches of the Celtic tribes. 2. Tribal formations. (a) The Clan. (b) Sub-Clan or Septs. (c) Highlanders, Lowlanders. 3. Clans all bore same tribal name, with Mac added. 4. Irish Clan customs same as Scotch. 5. Some Irish Clans adapted an additional surname to the Clan name in the 15th century. 6. In 1485 an act of Parliament was passed regulating the Surname of the Irish. We learned in former lessons that the Scotch and Irish were descendants of the Celtic tribes. Some authorities claim the Celts as a part of the Teutonic family, others assert they are a distinct race. Elder George Reynolds and several other Latter-day Saint scholars are inclined to the view that all of them are mixed descendants of the ten tribes. However this may be, Ireland was settled up by the Celtic tribes, who, later crossed the channel into Scotland, and by the sixth century they had settled largely in Caledonia. Ireland had been visited before this by the Christians, and an Irish Catholic priest named Columbo went over to Scotland and built a monastery in the island of Iona. He succeeded in converting the Picts and introduced primitive Christianity with its attendant social changes into the Highlands of Scotland. The Celts were grouped in tribes, and their habits and customs followed those of the Teutonic races, with this exception: they retained their patriarchal form of government many centuries after the other races had abandoned the custom. A clan or Tribe was composed of the descendants of a common ancestor, and as they lived in a small compass and did not move about, they kept up their ancient customs for many centuries. 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The Clans were divided up into sub-clans, or Septs, as they were called. There were seven sub-clans of the Clan Alpine, while others were equally as prolific. Not all of these clans and sub-clans were blood descendants. Men who married into the clan, captives who were taken in war, and sometimes adopted children, all were mixed up in the clan or tribe. The Highlanders were exceedingly exclusive and very much opposed to the Lowlanders. The Lowlanders intermixed with the English people and these were intermixed and intermarried with those of Danish and Norse blood, peoples who came across the North Channel. The clan adopted the personal name of the head of the tribe or clan, who founded the same, and each member of the clan was called by that name with the addition of Mac which simply means, belonging to. For instance, MacGregor meant a man belonging to the tribe of Gregor. Macintosh meant one belonging to the tribe of Intosh. The sub-tribe carried on the same custom. Irish customs were the same as Scotch customs. Like the Scotch people, there were two classes of the Irish race, those in the north and those in the south. In later centuries the settlers in northern Ireland were mixed very largely with the Scotch Covenanters many of whom were sent over in James the First's time after the siege of Londonderry to settle up Ulster and Donegal counties. The tribes had each a tribal name handed down from the founder of the tribe. Then others had nicknames attached to the personal and tribal name; for instance, Mac Dermot Roe was the red Mac Dermot; Mac Dermot Gull was the anglicized Mac Dermot. For a long time these additional names were kept up. Irish families who intermarried with the English people used English customs and assumed English surnames. In 1485 Parliament passed an act compelling all Irishmen to adopt English surnames, and confusion, indeed, was the result. Some Irishmen simply Englished their Irish names, others took trade names such as Smiths, Carpenters, and Cooks. It is much more difficult to follow an Irish surname to its original source than a Scotch or English surname. Yet care and patience will unravel even this difficulty. QUESTIONS. Who are the Scotch? What can you say about the Celtic tribes? Why were the clans formed? The sub-clans and Septs? GUIDE LESSONS. 57 What is the difference between the Highlanders and Lowlanders? How did the clans choose their clan name? Invite someone of Scotch decent to give the history of her surname. What two Irish customs resemble Scotch customs? What can you say of the Act of 1485, passed by Parliament concerning the Irish? LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in February. NATIONAL ASPECTS OF PARENTHOOD, AND ITS PROBLEMS. Maternal care and the making of a home are to be traced in numerous types of life besides that of human beings. Interesting illustrations might be drawn from fish and insects, birds and mammals to show three, among other important, points, in the growth of parenthood: (1) Without prolonged parental care, the destruction of life is so enormous that a very large number of offspring must be produced to perpetuate the species. Is it not a serious reflection upon the Twentieth century that hundreds of thousands of infants die annually within a few weeks of birth from no other cause than want of care, to the serious impoverishment of civilization? The conditions fatal to these infants damage the survivors more or less permanently, reducing individual capacity and national efficiency. (2) Valuable lessons are to be learned from observations on the varied forms of care in lowly types of life, where instinct directs the right preparation for the birth of the young and for their protection until they are self supporting. But under the complex conditions of modern civilization, trained intelligence must replace uneducated instinct, if young human life is to be safeguarded. (3) As life rises to a higher level of mental and social capacity, we note that the cooperation of two parents becomes essential to its production and protection. A dim recognition by primitive parents of such forms of personal responsibility may have led to the formation of the first human home as a means of shelter or protection. It paid to keep the children alive and well. Their motives were not purely unselfish; rather they were impressed with the thought of benefits to be derived from the help of intelligent and vigorous sons and daughters, who would assist in home duties, in hunting, in enemy attacks and especially, who would care for the parents when they became sick or feeble; this fact is perhaps the most forcible reason for the existence of family life. A less generally recognized purpose of family life is the maintenance of a fine racial standard. History reveals the fact that where family life deteriorated, so also did national efficiency. Therefore, upon the parents of today, upon their methods of bringing up their families, hinges the future of this nation. In order to furnish the country with a right-minded, self-supporting vigorous population, high standards of health and noble ideals of conduct must be fostered in home life. The surroundings, moral and physical, among which a child passes the first eight or ten years of its existence, color the whole of its future, and are responsible for the standard of civic worth it will attain in maturity. Consequently modern family life must fulfill four main functions: (1) Protection during infancy, and childhood, and again in old age. (2) Education, or systematic intelligent training in useful habits, and in ability to benefit from the experience of the past. (3) Development of bodies and minds, by play and work, food, rest, clothing, and care, suited to the age of each member of a household. (4) Social training, through the give and take of home life, and by the practice of mutual love, patience, service, courtesy and self control, which constitute essential preparation for the national responsibilities of maturity. Direct responsibility for the selection and support of a suitable home devolves upon the parents, but indirectly this is shared by the nation. There are numerous external considerations to be taken into account, such as, location, cleanliness of neighbors, freedom from dirt, bad odors, or from unnecessary industrial noise, which are largely dependent upon community standards, and the efficiency of the state and local boards of health. A good home must furnish means for rest and recreation as well as food, warmth, cleanliness and general comfort. The space surrounding the home should be ample for healthful activities, such as gardening, or games. The existing slight value placed on home recreation is actually a national concern, when we realize the far-reaching results of the growing tendency of young people to seek amusement outside the home, and of their craving for abnormal excitement, and exaggerated stimulation, such as is sought, for example, in the popular "movies." Among these results are premature nervous exhaustion, discontent with the quiet routine of normal life, and increased incentive to juvenile crime. GUIDE LESSONS. 59 (A good standard for judging moving pictures is given on page 20, of The Civics Hand Book, published by the National Federation of Women's Clubs.) Formerly it was thought that the care of children was a purely parental affair, but one outgrowth of this century is the recognition that the quality of a nation depends on the material reared in the homes; therefore, the state must now concern itself not only with the cultivation of a sound public opinion on this matter, but must ensure that normal children shall be reared in normal homes through the provision of good conditions for life, including wholesome recreation. Last, but by no means least, comes the recognition that parenthood is a profession, for which training must be provided, that the process of development in young human beings is very prolonged, and that each individual suffers throughout life if this process is not adequately safeguarded. The elasticity and adaptability of young human nature are so great that the results to the children of parental ignorance are often deferred for many years. These effects may not show themselves until the individual is exposed to the stress of heavy anxiety or overwork, or of maternity in later life. Then, instead of responding with elasticity to the strain, there is a collapse or a period of prolonged ill health. Results are thus separated by years from their real causes, and the connection is unfortunately overlooked. Unless the physical condition of the youth of the nation is passed in review, as was the case last year; then the nation is startled out of its misplaced confidence in parental capacity, and demands more intelligent home care of its youthful citizens in the interests of national prosperity. Care to secure a high standard in child life should begin even before marriage, for it is now known that sound health in the offspring is associated with the character and physique of prospective parents, and depends upon their education for their responsibilities, as well as upon the skilled care of expectant mothers. Among the agencies for such preparation for Parenthood may be included:— (1) Opportunities for study of the subject in high school and college. (2) Classes and lectures for the general public, supported by special newspaper articles and exhibits. The question of Child Labor and Education should constitute other vital parental interests. What is usually described as education, that is, the few hours out of the twenty-four spent daily in the school room, cannot produce as enduring results as do the social and moral standards founded on education in the home. The necessity for legal safeguards in respect of child labor is unfortunately urgent, and should engage the attention of all 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. parents. How comparatively few parents appreciate the necessity for the study of individual child nature! Too often, for instance, precocity is stimulated instead of regulated, or ignorance allows the development of physical and mental handicaps, which could be controlled by early and judicious treatment; or undue repression or extreme indulgence results in juvenile delinquency. Yet such failure of parental care, burdens the nation with more or less defective citizens — not necessarily of criminal tendencies, but unable to contribute their full quota of efficient service to the national life. Nevertheless, there are hopeful signs of a slow awakening on the part of the public, which is, after all, largely composed of parents. The Children's Year Campaign "To save 100,000 babies and get a square deal for children" opened on April 6th, with the beginning of the nation-wide weighing and measuring test of young children. This work, inaugurated by the National Council of Defence on behalf of children has been approved by President Wilson, who expresses the hope that "the work may so successfully develop as to set up certain irreducible minimum standards for the health, education, and work of the American child." It depends upon the homes of the country to attain and maintain such standards. REFERENCES. Children's Year Working Program, Bul. No. 40, Leaflet, No. 3. U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Child Care, The Preschool Age, part 1, by Mrs. Max West, (pages 7-11). U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Infant Care, Series No. 2. Pub. No. 8, by Mrs. Max West, (pages 9-19). U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Infant Mortality, by Raphael S. Olsen. Bul. No. 1, (pages 13, 14, 21-32). University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. What are the special functions of a home? 2. Give three illustrations from lower types of life of instinct guidance in birth preparations and protection of the young. 3. What are the essentials in the maintenance of high racial standard? 4. How would you propose preparing the youth of the country for the responsibilities of parenthood? 5. What is the relation between national efficiency and home life? 6. Why has it been necessary to organize the Children's Year Campaign?