[Vol17 | December 1930 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Making of Personality Claire Stewart Boyer]
The sorcery of the hand is also THE MAKING OF PERSONALITY revealed.

There is love in the voice, understanding in the eye, but in the hand there is a touch of sympathy out of which human relationships are made. [* mental development the value of instinct and the proper use of reason are important factors.

Instinct would make us lords of ourselves instead of slaves of fashion.

Reliance upon instinct relieves one of self-consciousness, of worry; it lends distinction and charm to any personality.

Instinct pronounces judgment on the value of opinion and the worth of experience.

Reason should be the pilot of our lives, to keep us from extreme winds of passion and wayward tides of thought.

S PIRITUALITY is recognized by personal vibrancy.

The person who is in tune with the infinite, whose soul is chiefly concerned with goodness, sends out waves of spirituality to his fellows, which they recognize.

This personal vibrancy is more powerful than beauty, more effective tthan intelligence.

Only those who have responded to life's griefs and raptures are mellowed 663 instruments from which the music of life may come in spiritual strains.

Love of Nature and appreciation of the fine arts also intensify the personal tone.

One of the most delightful touches of spiritual culture is good manners.

To live without manners would be as detrimental to the soul as it would be to the body to live without exercise.

And finally joy must be nurtured in the soul.

Genius is the spontaneous coordination of inspiration, aspiration and execution; it requires for its perfect development the most harmonious culture of the spirit, the intelligence and the senses.

He is master of his world who can both plan and achieve, who keeps his plans within bounds of the achievable and brings his achievements up to the requirements of his plans.

"He who espouses perfection Must follow the threefold plan Of soul and mind and body To compass the stature of man." In a symmetrical cultivation of all our powers, in a balanced exercise of all our faculties the treasure of personal happiness is likely to be found.

SNOW COVERED PINES IN THE ROCKIES Photo by Glen Perrins
