THE CHILDREN.
 What tender thoughts are awakened by the
one word children, in the hearts of all who
realize the relationships of life. It calls out
the affections immediately, and awakens with-
in the soul emotions born of live for all that is
good and pure. The little children! how inno-
cent they are, how guileless in their simplicity,
how attractive in all they say and do in their
artless, unaffected manner. Love for children
is a heaven-born attribute in the human char-
acter; it is right to live and cherish them, but
there is much more to do besides loving them,
in the usual signification of the term. Gener-
ally speaking, love is blind to faults; it should
not be; this will not answer with children.
Parents, mothers especially, for it is to mothers
we are addressing these few lines, should disci-
pline and control the love they bear their chil-
dren, so that it prove a blessing. It should be
the kind of love that is watchful, diligent, con-
stant and tender, yet firm and decided when
necessary. To help little children to grow up
good and pure, honest and upright, is a noble
work. Most people have contented themselves
with thinking that before a child was eight
years old there was little need of teaching; yet
everybody knows how susceptible children are,
hw inquiring, and how eager to see, to hear,
and to do.
   It is evident that to correct the evils that ex-
ist in the world to-day a great reformation is
needed, of a kind unlike any other, and many
wise people believe it must commence with
the children. They are certainly the purest
element to work with (would to heaven they
could be born purer physically), but this is an-
other point in view. This work must necessa-
rily devolve heavily upon the mothers; they
make the first impressions. But they may
have helps in teachers and instructors, who,
by various methods of interesting and attracting
them, may relieve a short time the over-bur-
dened mother, and draw out much of what I 
fine and tender in their own natures.
 The finest and most eminent characters of
whom we have heard, or read, have expressed
themselves as being happy in the society of
little children. The Savior rebuked his disci-
ples for refusing to let the children be brought
to Him, and said in those touching words, that
have been quoted ever since, by all classes of
people wherever the Bible is known, "Suffer
little children to come unto me, and forbid
them not, for of such is the kingdom of heav-
en."
 Everything for the better education of little
children in all that is most excellent should be
done, and because of the endelible impressions
made upon the infant mind in its earliest years,
the greatest care should be taken in the devel-
opment of their moral and spiritual faculties
Many people do not believe that children pos-
sess any positive spiritual faculties that can
possibly be cultivated so young as under eight,
nine, or ten years. But however tiny the
germ may be, it should be nourished and its
growth encouraged proportionately with other
tendencies.
 There has been too much neglect of these
spiritual qualities in the young, yet they are of
vital importance in the perfecting and harmon-
izing of the human soul. If they can be called
out in the children, faith will increase, and the
knowledge of God. Child-life is always more
or less delightful; it stands out separate and
apart from all other phases of one's life as the
time of genuine happiness, and the traditions
and instructions of the earliest period are re-
membered with a distinctness that almost
passes belief.
   Among this people there is a host of children;
the parents are anxious they should excel in
all that will make them noble and truly wise.
Then it is absolutely necessary that some spe-
cial pains be taken to raise them above the or-
dinary standard. The custom has been to edu-
cate them morally and mentally, but the spir-
itual has lain dormant. But a new movement
has been made to put  into active exercise the
spiritual elements of the children's character.
For this purpose the organizations called Pri-
mary Associations have been formed, and al-
ready much has been accomplished in this
direction. But there is not sufficient interest
awakened upon the subject; many parents are
indifferent in regard to the matter. Some good
people think this getting the children together
to teach them of the things of God, and help
develop in them at a very early period the la-
tent germ of spirituality, is superfluous; they
are taught to pray in the nursery and at the
mother’s knee, and then are also taught in the
Sabbath School, and that more than this is
cramming them with things they cannot ap-
preciate; others have said, "It is some old wo-
man's whim who is over-religious." To all, or
any, who feel any doubt on this subject, we
would suggest that they take the trouble to
visit one of these same Primary Associations,
and listen to the teachings given, note the
spirit and manner in which they are im-
parted; hear the sweet voices of the children
singing, and see the eyes sparkle with innocent
pleasure and the little faces brighten as they
answer their questions; and better still, hear
them speak in their childish manner of faith
and other principles. Oh, it is a glorious thing
to see our children walk in the ways of the
Lord while in their early youth. They are the
future hope of Israel. Mothers, let us ever
carry this remembrance in our hearts,


