MEN'S VIEWS OF WOMEN'S DUTIES.

	"SPEECH is silvern: silence is golden."
It is probable that by this time Lord Burgh-
ley has seen cause to regret that at the An-
nual Dinner of the Northamptonshire Agri-
cultural Society he proposed as a remedy for
the present agricultural depression "that
the farmers' wives and daughters must put
their shoulders to the wheel. Their daugh-
ters must not be brought up to play the
piano; but as farmers' wives. They should
not be brought up to play lawn-tennis and
to speak French and other languages. They
were wanted to exist entirely in this coun-
try to assist the agricultural interest."
Lord Burghley's speech furnished material
for letters in the newspapers for a fortnight.
Farmers' daughters asked with natural in-
dignation, "What would he have us do?
We make our own bread, make butter for
the house and for market, attend the poul-
try, pigs are killed in the house, needle-
work done, even to dressmaking, and to
meet the exigencies of the times only one
maidservant is kept. This with the general
supervision of the house, seems enough.
Would Lord Burghley have us import ad-
ditional hands, and take to the field work
ourselves? Woud there be any economy in
this?" This resentment at the masculine
"laying down of the laws" is very natural.
It is surely worse than useless in these days
when so much attention is paid to mechan-
ical and scientific improvement in men's
employments to argue that women's work
must be carried on entirely in the old
grooves, that they have no business to be
anything more than thoroughly domesti-
cated" (to use the cant words of advertise-
ment,) and that all education beyond cook-
ing, sewing, and housework, is supereroga-
tory, We quite agree that there may be
too much piano-playing, but we would like
to see it diminish among the middle and
higher classes, and in favor of less sup-
erficial acquirements with which we fear
Lord Burghley would have even less sym-
pathy than with French and lawn-tennis.
If he meant that the women as well as the
men of the family should look upon the
joint prosperity as their own concern, we
also agree, but this would not be secured
by their exclusion from the higher-educa-
tion of their fathers and brothers, but by
their improved knowledge of business,
from farming details up to political econ-
omy, and by a system of more equal respon-
sibility under which the women of the
family should have a fairer share of control
over the general income than under the
present system of pin-money or allowances.
	Such oracular utterances on the domestic
duties of women are unfortunately very
common. The Duke of Rutland followed
suit the other day when, in opening an
endowed school for girls in Loughborough,
he said "Without touching on the question
of woman's rights, he thought women should
receive an education to fit them to under-
take the duties they had to fulfill, especially
cookery and sewing." Of course women
should be educated to fulfil their duties,
but who is to say what these duties are?
Cooking and sewing are not the duties of
every woman, any more than carpentering
or ploughing are the duties of every man.
In proportion as the general capacity of
girls is increased, their quickness of per-
ception, their accuracy of calculation, their
general powers of reasoning on and applying
what they have acquired, will increase,
and they will become more fitted to turn to
whatever special duties fall to their share.
But there is an assumption which borders
on the offensive in these accurately defined


statements of the duties and sphere of the
whole of one sex, which is instructive in
quite another sense to that which these
statesmen and orators intend.—"English-
woman's Review."


