VISIT TO ENGLAND.

	I left Salt Lake City May 20, traveling for
five days by rail, in company with my son Jo-
seph, Brothers Martineau, Benson and other
Elders. We met occasionally with intelligent
persons, with whom we had pleasant conversa-
tions, disabusing the minds of some who had
listened to the misrepresentations of Ann
Eliza, Mrs. Stenhouse, and others. We arrived
in New York on Sunday moning, the 25th,
When we took up our abode at the Stevens
House, Bowling Street, the hotel generally
patronized by ou[-] people. In the afternoon
my son and I took a walk down Broadway, and
were surprised to meet so few well-dressed per
sons, and to find the streets so quiet, no one
appearing to be on his way to a place of wor-
ship; indeed, there did not appear to be any
service held in the Churches we passed. On
the Monday morning quite a different scene
was presented. Broadway and other streets
were thronged on the sidewalks with pedes-
trians, while it was difficult to cross the street
for omnibuses, cars and vehicles of every des-
cription that were innumerable. We went to
the Office to see Bro. Staines (who was not
aware of our arrival, having spent the Sunday
in Brooklyn). He kindly assisted us in pro-
curing our passage on the Wisconsin, which
was to sail on Tuesday, 27th; and extended
his courtesy and kindness in taking us across
the water to Brooklyn, to see the lovely Green-
wood Cemetery, a delightful resting place for
the dead. The grounds are laid out in the
most exquisite taste, ornamented with every
kind of plant and flowers of sweet perfume.
There is a carriage service organized for the
accommo[-]ation of lot-owners and visitors. At
the North entrance a carriage, with coachman
in livery, is in attendance every fine day at
certain hours, to drive you through the differ-
ent avenues. He stops occasionally to point
out some monument of interest, describing to
you the person, cause of death, etc. Many of
these monuments are most costly in design,
with chaste and richly ca[-]ved statuary; some
erected at the cost of thirty thousand dollars.
Tablets of sculptured marble, and monuments
of the same; others were of granite and [-]ome
of bronze. In one of the avenues you have a
splendid view of the Bay of New York, with
Staten Island and New Jersey in the distance.
I think the avenues through which you can
travel extend 18½ miles. It is indeed a lovely
spot, and seems as though it would be nice to
lie down there and rest. We were much de-
lighted with our ride, though it ne[-]ded more
than one pair of eyes to see all points of inter-
est. Felt deeply indebted to Bro. Staines for
the treat. His gentlemenly kindness and
courtesy is a great comfort to the brethren and
sisters who meet with him in New York.
	On Tuesday morning our kind friend, Bro.
S., accompanied us to the vessel, introduced us
to the officers, and gave us the last "God bless
you" and wave of the hand as we sailed out of
port at 10:30 A. M., to cross the briny deep for
England's shores. Our passage was a favorable
one, were well cared for on the vessel, having
every luxury of the season, though unfor-
tunately I was not capable of enjoying much,
being too sick to present myself at the table
after the first day. Was very thankful when
we arrived in Liverpool, which was on the 7th
of June, making a voyage of eleven days. I
met with intelligent and agreeable ladies, the
wives of ministers and men of business. We
had an excellent stewardess, who paid us every
attention, a kind C[-]ptain, whom I never heard
speak a cross word. One circumstance that
tended to mar our pleasure was the sickness of

[Column 2]
Bro. David Dunbar (who, with Bro. French,
had joined us in New York)  Two days after
landing in Liverpool it proved to be the small
pox he was suffering from, and that of the se-
verest kind. I was thankful when I heard of
his convalescence; was also pleased to have a
call from him while in Leicester, for I had
been particularly anxious about him and exer-
cised faith and prayer in his behalf; when I
heard that he was fast sinking, I could not be-
lieve he would die.
	On arriving in Leicester, our native town,
my brother and part of his family were at the
station to greet us. My brother and I could
not recognize in each other the same person
that we had seen twenty-eight years ago. We
could not speak, but wept together. Nor was
my son recognizable, not having seen him
since a boy of eight years old. My son spent
two weeks visiting with his friends before go-
ing to his field of labor in the Sheffield Con-
ference. I spent a pleasant time with my
relatives in Leicester, called upon a few old
friends, though they were but few, many that
I once knew were sleeping in their graves. I
found very little disposition amongst my
friends to investigate the truth, or take any
interest in Mormoni[-]m, except it was to in-
quire about polygamy, and made that as a
plea, or excuse, for not having a desire to un-
derstand our principles. Yet I realize there
are very few happy marriages in the world. I
believe many are afraid to investigate lest they
should be convinced, which they feel would be
attended with great sacrifice, to unite them-
selves with a people who are so unpopular.
We were some time before we found out where
the Latter-day S[-]ints m[--] for worship. We at
length found about sixty-two of the Saints,
who met in a small house in a quiet street.
They met to partake of the Sacrament, bear
their testimony, &c., but had no singing lest
they should di[-]turb their neighbors, which to
me appeared rather cold and dry. The parties
who kept the house have since emigrated, with
several others, from that branch. It appears to
me that [-]he work is at a low ebb in my native
place, but trust, with the exertions of Brother
David Dunbar, who takes the Presidency of
that Conference, and his co-laborers, that a
more lively interest will be taken in the work.
	I spent five or six weeks in Manchester, vis-
iting my husband's sister. I met frequently
with the Saints in Grosvenor Street, and en-
joyed myself much; also attended the Confer-
ence, meeting with quite a number of the
brethren from Utah, and had quite a happy
time. Found one dear [-]r[-]end in the Church
with whom I enjoyed myself—a sister of our
respected Sister Barrett. I visited occasionally
with her, which was the most enjoyable time
I had, my own relatives having no sympathy
with my religion and no desire to learn of its
principles. Though I had every comfort and
luxury, and a carriage to ride in, I felt there
was no place like the home of the Saints.

(To be continued.)


[Column 1]
	DEDICATION OF SISTER BOOTH'S
