WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Helen Magill, daughter of the
President of Swarthmore College, has been
studying at Cambridge University, and has
received a scholarship in a competitive ex-
amination in Greek, Latin and French.
Miss Magill graduated from Boston Uni-
versity.
	MRS. G. H. Lewes, nee Marian C. Evans,
the "George Eliot" of literature, wishes
that when she is buried only the words
"George Eliot" shall be placed on a slab
above her grave. The daughter of a coun-
try curate, she, with a good education, went
to London at the age of twenty-three and
began to write for magazines. She wrote
most for the radical "Westminster." She
declined to marry her tutor, Herbert Spen-
cer, the philosopher. She married Lowes,
whose first wife had twice run away from
him, and she lives in the house near Re-
gent's Park, where about a year ago he
died. She is fifty-nine, is childless, and
has earned $250,000 with her pen. She is
of medium height, has large features, gray
eyes, gray hair, and a sweet voice.
	MR. SCHURZ'S LIBRARY.—In Secretary
Schurz's beautiful library, which no one who
has ever entered forgets, stands an easel,
and on that easel is a life-sized portrait in
India ink—a face and bust—of marvelous
beauty and tenderness. It is more than a
picture: it is a presence, and it hallows the
apartment with a sense of "the tender
grace of a day that is dead." No one who
knew Mrs. Schurz in her lifetime, or who
recalls Mrs. Mary Clemmer's touching and
tender analysis of her character in the "In-
depent," shortly after her death, but ap-
proaches that picture as if it were a shrine.
To the pure and loyal heart of her husband
I know it is such, and if you have ever
seen him in his library you have felt that
that gentle presence became a participator
in the interview. Numa had his Egeria,
and Sir Galahad his blessed vision, and Carl
Schurz, returning to his lonely home at
nightfall, after days of such intense hard
work as few men realize—a work which is
to him more than a vocation, even a conse-
cration—opens softly the door of his favor-
ite room, and finds awaiting him those
sweetly-following eyes.—Albany Journal.


