	HOUSE AT BEAVER.

	Sister Hannah Booth's house was dedicated
Oct. 17, 1879; it has a good rock foundation,
with brick walls. Pres. J. R. Murdock made
introductory remarks; prayer by Elder Daniel
Tyler. Picn[-]c dinner. There seemed nothing
wanting to suit the variety of appetites that
surrounded the table. Tho e who prepared
the dinner thought best to forget retrenchment
just for that once; there had b[-]en such faithfu
labor bestowed upon the house, the workmen
(especially Philip Baker) had been so liberal

[Column 2]
and persevering in finishing up the building;
the occasion demanded an extra dinner. Six
Elders were present, and double the number
of women, all with open hearts to congratulate
Mother Booth on carrying into effect what she
had commenced with doubtful prospects; thus
proving that women can accomplish "big"
things with little means, with tact and skill,
as well as men, and better sometimes, under
conflicting circumstances.
	Brother Wm. Fotheringham entertained the
company with an account of his mission to
India, the strange religion of that country, the
readiness of Mother Booth, her sister, her son
and wife, to embrace the truth, amidst the
great indifference of the people who hoard his
preaching. They were the chosen few. They
had been raised in ease and affluence, not ac-
customed to labor, but for the Gospel of Christ
they thought no sacrifices too gre[-]t.
	Sister L. B. Pratt contributed a lengthy essay.
She had known the family on their first arrival
in San Bernardino, California, had been a wit-
ness to their energy in learning to cook their
food, which they had never done in their own
country. She says: "I, with other sisters,
taught them to cook by a campfire, and after-
wards by a stove. I admired their patience
and perseverance; never did I hear them mur-
mur and say, ‘If I was back in my own coun-
try I could have servants to do my work.'
When the Church was preparing to leave San
Bernardino, they exerted themselves to come
to Utah. They sold their fine dresses, cam-
brics and laces, many articles of value, to pur-
chase a team and wagon. They bought two
yoke of Texican cattle, frightful to look upon,
with tremendous horns. They were not well
broken, and Mother Booth's son was not an
experienced driver, having been a Civil Engin-
eer in his native country. The two sisters had
to walk up all the hills, and wade through
deep sand in crossing the desert. I was in the
same company; we often walked till a late
hour in the night. It was no new thing to me
to travel with ox teams, as I had been through
the exodus from Nauvoo to Salt Lake; but to
them it was strange and new. They stood it
bravely. Mother Booth had been educated for
an Accoucher in India, and practised success-
fully in San Bernardino. We reached the set-
tlements in Utah af[-]er one of the most tedious
jouneys that human beings ever performed,
and located in Beaver, where for several years
Mother Booth was a faithful and skilfull phy-
[-]ician among her own sex. In pr[-]cess of time
Mother Booth went to Salt Lake, and there
continued her practice, winning the confidence
of many ladies whom she attended through
the trying scenes of childbirth. Who can say
her career has not been a remarkable one? You
who are present know what her labors have
been in Beaver—a faithful servant to the pub-
lic; and while managing the building of her
house, walking about the town to collect ma-
terial, and contract for work on the building,
she had the care of her poor afflicted sister by
day and by night. The disease of her sister
was an aggravating one, causing her to be al-
most as helpless as an infant; no one could
have strength and patience to attend her like
her faithful sister. She besought the Lord for
strength, and it was given her. She scarcely
felt her weariness, till the poor sufferer was re-
leased and carried to her final resting place;
then she realized what she had passed through
and acknowledged the power that had sup-
ported her."
	A vote of thanks was tendered to all who
had kindly assisted in building the house, and
Mother Booth, after repeating the Lord’s
prayer in the language spoken in Hindostan,


expressed her gratitude to her friends, and de-
clared herself blessed and comforted. Thus
ended the dedication of a building (a credit-
able one) erected by the economy and wise
management of a woman from far-off India.
	AN INVITED GUEST.
For further particulars concerning this re-
markable woman, we would refer our readers
to "The Women of Mormondom," chap. xivii,
"A Sister from the East Indies."


