	ARIZONA, APACHE CO., Oct. 25, 1879
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister—After a long silence I again re-
sume my pen to correspond with my dear old
friend, the EXPONENT, This leaves us well
and prosperous in the far-off land of Arizona.
The brethren have succeeded in raising average
crops this season. Notwithstanding the long
drouth, they have had plenty of water to irri-
gate more land than was cultivated. Sugar
cane averaged one hundred gallons to the acre,
and a very good yield of corn and squashes.
This is the best country for beans I ever saw.
There will be no difficulty in storing beans for
famine in this country, as there can be an
abundance of them raised here. I see from
the EXPONENT that Sister E R. Snow recom-
mends the storing of beans in Sanpete Valley.
Our settlements here, though small, would do
well to give heed to this counsel.
	Owing to the scattered condition of the set-
tlements, there is no Relief Society organized
here yet, but some of the sisters are doing what
they can in the way of clothing our neighbors,
the Lamanites, who manifest a friendly appre-
ciation of our kindness. Bro. Lewyllen Harris
has been very dilligent in teaching them, in
connection with Bro. Thaine and others; so
much so, that one of the head chiefs said in
my hearing, when asked to smoke, that he did
not smoke; that those who did not drink
whiskey, or use tobacco, would live twenty
years longer than those who did The mission
to this land is a very important one. When I
have met with brethren who have left their
families and labored for years past among the
natives of this land, I have been reminded of
the aneedote of Bro. Heber C. Kimball when
he went to preach the mysteries of the king-
dom, which was "that Bro. Amasa needed a
pair of pantaloons" The brethren and sisters
have been poorly prepared to render assistance
to those who have labored for years past among
a people that cannot sustain themselves.
	The everlasting hills rejoice, and the earth is
made glad, together with the ancient covenant
people of God, because of the blessing of the
Holy Priesthood that has come upon this land.
There have been appropriations made by the
Saints here for the opening of a new road from
here to Utah, which will prove a great blessing
to those desiring to emigrate to this country.
The old route by way of Lee's Ferry has been
a terror to some. As I stood gazing upon the
rugged cliffs, towering perpendicularly above
the river at the ferry, I was struck with awe
and reverence at the sight; a solemnity rested
upon me. I thought of the sad fate of Bishop
Roundy, and the beautiful theme of Parley P.
Pratt, the gifted theologian and poet, when he
exclaimed:
		"liers 'mid the mountain's towering dome,
		The Colorado water's foam,
		And freedom finds a home,
		Oh, come, come away."
	Sister Annie Woods joins me in love to the
brethren and sisters. We hope to see the day
that unjust judges will no longer sit in judg-
ment upon holy men of God. The s[-]me God
that caused prison walls to fall in t[--] days of
the Savior is their God, and His arm is not
weakened; He can deliver.
	Owing to the irregularities of the mail, I do
not receive more than half of the Exponents
due me, threfore the sisters here are waiting to
send their subscriptions for the paper in conse-
quence of this delay. With love to the breth-
ren and sisters and a fervent desire for the in-
terest of the Saints, as ever,
