READING.

	If I could, I would enumerate the advan-
tages arising from reading; however, as I
am fully conscious I have not the ability to
do justice to a subject so extensive in itself,
and so profuse in its bearing, I will not at-
tempt to define, or delineate, but will give
you a few of my own ideas relative to this
branch of education.
	By reading we learn to know ourselves
more thoroughly, which is one of the most
important attainments; we can judge of our
ideas, our capacities and our actions, by com-
paring them with those of others whose
lives are portrayed to us by the writer; we
can become acquainted (almost familiarly
so) with the character and lives of the great
men and women of the past ages, with the

[Column 2]

reputation they sustained among their co-
temporaries, also with the events which
were then transpiring, and the parts which
they performed in the transactions of the
day and age in which they lived; in what
way and manner, and by what means they
rose to eminence above their fellow-labor-
ers in the same cause, so as to forever im-
mortalize their names; and if noble and
laudable, we may strive to emulate those
excellent qualities which we so much ad-
mire in them, and which have been record-
ed for the benefit of future generations; or
if, on the contrary, through any lack of
knowledge, wisdom, or experience they
have failed to win the laurel for which they
were exerting their greatest energies, force
and skill, let us shun the weakness, vice
or error into which they were (perhaps un-
wittingly) led, and which we commiserate
in those who might otherwise have been
celebrated as heroes of their time.
	By reading we enlarge the circle of our
thoughts; we continually improve our con-
versation and the versatility of our lan-
guage; we enrich and expand our minds,
and all our ideas of cultivation and refine-
ment, become broader and more extended.
	We also become conversant with the dif-
ferent topics of the day, and make ourselves
familiar with the events transpiring under
our own immediate notice, or in the vicinity
in which we live, and in the circle of which
we form a part. Thus we live, not only in
the past, but more effectually and to a bet-
ter purpose in the present; and we draw
therefrom our own inferences and conclu-
sions, form our own opinions, and more
gracefully harmonize our theories and prac-
tices, with those of our cotemporaries, and
thus are better enabled to mark out our
own course of thought, or action, and dis-
tinguish ourselves in the pursuit of the
object we wish to achieve.
	Then again, we become acquainted with
the manners, habits, customs, &c., of other
nations, of which we would, perhaps, have
remained almost wholly in ignorance; of
the different varieties of government, reli-
gion and amusements, practised among
them; and through these sources of infor-
mation our minds are expanded, our views
of human nature enlarged, and our feelings
of benevolence for mankind in general
better developed.
	Reading opens up a field of instruction to
which there is no limit, and I am wholly
lost in the contemplation of the innumera-
ble resources it affords to the active mind;
it is one of the most delightful of solitary
or social entertainments; it enriches the
springs of thought, and helps us to procure
a fund of information which we may apply
for onr benefit in any and every emergency.
	Poetry is the very essence of reading,
inasmuch as it seasons every other kind; it
lends an infinite charm which harmonizes
with the most lofty and beautiful senti-
ments of the soul. Every person (in my
humble opinion) should intermingle poetry
with their reading; it blends in so perfectly
with that which is more solid, material and
practical, and very perceptibly purifies the
grosser elements of the mind.
	I have merely touched upon one or two
items connected with this illimitable sub-
ject; and I would sincerely beg to be judged
mercifully, as I have neither genius nor
ability to recommend me to your notice.


CUSTOMER—“What did you think of the
bishop’s sermon on Sunday, Mr. Wigsby?”
Hairdresser—“Well, really, sir, there
was a gent a sittin' in front o’ me as ’ad his
'air parted that crooked that I couldn't 'ear
a word!" - New York Graphic.


