DEAR EDITOR:

	I have so much to write this time that I
hardly know where to begin. We have

[Column 2]
had such a general time of excitement that
it has unfit me for the most ordinary duties.
You are aware ere this that General Grant
was the cause of all this bustle. For a
week everybody was on the qui vive wait-
ing for the signal to tell us the Tokio was
in sight. The fire alarms were to tell us
first, and at every tap of the bell during
the week every one was ready to start to
welcome the great hero to his native home
—America.
	The city was gorgeously decorated; it
seemed a contagion, every one did some-
thing, until the city resembled a paradise;
I cannot begin to describe the beauty.
Across the street ropes were stretched, and
thousands of small flags were attached,
which were arranged in diamonds, hearts,
crosses, and in fact everything one could
think of. The Jewish holidays were being
celebrated at that time, and the people were
more showily dressed than ever before.
The city and the entertainment altogether
was enchanting. We happened to be one
of the privileged few to welcome the Gen-
erai on board the steamer Cherea, and I
was wild with the anticipation of going on
the old ocean, and on such an auspicious
occasion. We had one hour to reach the
wharf after the first signal, and I happened
to be six miles from home at the first tap of
the bell; but the California street dummie
cars soon brought me to Kearney St., from
whence I flew like the wind to get my in-
vitation card, which I had left at home. I
arrived on the steamer just five minntes
ahead of time, and saw four or five thou-
sand people left on the wharf, although they
had tickets and had hired carriages to bring
them there.
	The steamer was gaily decorated with
flags of all nations, and the water was alive
with all kinds of water-crafts. We started
and sailed out about ten miles, and never
one seasick person. The ocean was so calm
and beautiful, and it was just at sunset
when we saw the Tokio in the distance.
We soon steamed along side of her; the
tug Millen Griffith sailed close to her, and
Ulysses, Jr., boarded the Tokio and was
soon in the embrace of his dear mother,
whom he had not seen for nearly three
years. A number of other huge steamers,
with their living freight, and handsomely
decorated, steamed alongside of Tokio; a
line of yachts, held in tow by a tug, was
formed for the steamer to pass through.
Then began the firing of cannon on either
side of the bay; the roar was deafening,
and shook our vessel from stern to stern.
The music was all along the water, the
hills were black with the eager crowds that
had gathered to witness the pageant on the
water. It was a sight never to be forgotten;
it was a glimpse of fairy land, or a scene In
the "Arabian Nights." Darkness and fog
began to settle down and dim the view,
when rockets were sent into the air, elec-
tric light was brought forth, also various
colored Roman candles. Our vessel steamed
back to the wharf, when to our dismay she
stuck fast on a sandbar, as the tide was out.
We were towed ashore inch by inch, and
it was after nine o'clock P. M. before we
stepped ashore. When we learned our
fate we made the best of it, and we had
the "Pinafore" and several amusing things
performed to while away the hours. The
grand torch-light procession had not ended,
and we saw it. O how enchanting! The
electric light, the waving flags and gay
bunting, the soldiers in their gay uniform,
and the inspiring martial music nearly
turned the people's heads, and 'tis not to be
wondered at either.
	The decorating was left for the General

[Column 3]
to inspect by daylight, which he did Sun-
day by riding In an open barouche. Every-
body was anxious to get a view of our dis-
tinguished visitor, and at every place where
it was thought he would be there were im-
mense crowds.
	He attended the Police Ball in aid of the
widows and orphans of the police depart-
ment, and the result was seven thousand
dollars for the treasury. I never saw such
a crowd; and the blue-coated guardians of
the peace made a pretty sight. They are
nearly the same height, and all dressed ex-
actly like. Their brass buttons were nicely
polished, and when they marched around
the hall two by two and doffed their hats
to the General the sight was very pretty.
	Kearney threatened to burn Grant in
effigy, and it was a sorry day for him, for
he came near losing his life, and if he had
attempted to carry out his threat he would
very likely have been shot in his tracks.
That threat has injured him more than any-
thing he has done yet. He left town be-
fore the General arrived, but returned be-
fore he started to Yosemite, and sent his
card up to the General's apartments, but
was refused an Interview on account of a
previous engagement.		NELLIE.


