MEN AND YOUNG LADIES.

	How often is it said, "My sons must re-
ceive a college education, but my daugh-
ters can learn sufficient at home." Yes, your
daughters can learn sufficient at home, and
so can your sons; but there is no reason
why your sons should be better acquainted
with the arts and sciences, and other things
pertaining to the development of the mind,
than your daughters. Give them equal ad-
vantages, and true genius will show itself;
or, if the family means will not allow all to
be educated alike, give the best opportu-
nity to the one most likely to profit by it.
If this example had been followed from
the beginning, the world would contain
more works of true merit and not half so
much rubbish.
	Oftentimes a bright, intelligent girl is
left without any advantages of education,
while her less intelligent brother has all
the spare means of the family expended in
his behalf. He never makes anything of
himself, because it isn't in him; she never

[Column 2]
becomes great, because she hasn't had an
opportunity. If a different course had been
taken with them, the girl would have been
a learned and perhaps great woman, and
the boy would have been equally as well off
as he is with his education.
	Some tell us that girls are to be mothers,
and should learn to keep house, and a girl's
home should be her world; "her duty is to
take care of it." Very true; and thus, as
boys are to be fathers, they should also reign
at home and make it their duties to take
care of these homes. Men are often
ashamed to take their wives with them
among learned people, because they are so
ignorant; and even if they do take them,
the wife seldom enjoys it, because she
knows nothing of what is going on. Yet
they love these wives, beacuse "they are
such excellent cooks, and have such sub-
missive dispositions;" but they do not love
them with the true, generous love of the
soul, that would be impossible, because
their tastes are different and they are not
equally matched. When boys attain their
majority, they feel that they know more
than their mothers do; they still love their
mothers with a natural filial love, but they
cease to come to them for help and counsel.
If girls were educated like boys, there
would be none of this. A man would be
prond to take his wife with him anywhere,
and would love to bring learned and noted
people to his house to meet her; he would
love to sit with her in the evening, when
the day's labor is done, reading their favor-
ite books, or discussing popular subjects.
Too often do we hear of a man spending his
evenings away from home, because there is
nothing there to interest him—no conge-
nial spirit; and no one likes to read and dis-
cuss subjects with himself. One needs a
companion in his joys as much as in his
sorrows.
	Some prefer a woman "who is pretty and
does not know too much"—Is it possible for
any one to know too much? Such a woman
dresses nicely and makes a very pretty
appearance at balls and theatres; she is
admired by all for her pretty face and art-
less ways but "distance lends enchant-
ment" she wont bear inspection. Her
eyes are a beautiful color but they lack the
clear intelligent light that should beam
from them. Her features are faultless, but
a certain insipid blankness dwells in that
face nevertheless, and if we were well
acquainted with her we should call her
shallow. No doubt this woman has spent
enough time waltzing to learn the French
language. Enough time gazing at herself
in the mirror and planning ways of im-
proving her looks to learn all the arts,
sciences and languages combined. Pray
what kind of a mother will such a woman
make? Can she teach her children any
thing?
	Then what kind of a mother would a
learned woman make? She can teach her
children every thing. She herself can lay
the foundation upon which their educations
will be built; and what a foundation: No
nonsense and trash joined together with
foolish ideas, but firm and solid learning
mixed with the purest mortar, a mothers
love. Mothers sometimes unconsciossly
lead their children into wrong paths and

[Column 3]
false ideas, simply because they know no
better. In ancient times the Roman moth-
era educated their children themselves un-
til they arrived at a certain age then they
were taken from them and placed in the
schools of learning. These mothers must
have been educated, else how could they
have done this? Is it possible that we are
degenerating? Is not education as necessary
now as ever? Yes and more so, for now
there are more people. Education of the
sexes ought necessarily to be equal, every
one admits that our boys must be educated,
I have endeavored to show why our girls
should be educated.
					[handwritten] A[---] W. C[---]
