GOOD MANNERS
			    -----
	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
   In writing upon this subject a vast field
opens itself to view, but like the traveler
who sees so much he would like to gather
up in his travels, but reflects he will be
overladen and hindered, for here is a beauti-
ful valley to be explored, or yonder is a
waterfall; or some choice plants, or precious
minerals he would like to have for his
friends, yet he is aware that he must not
stop for every thing his eye meets, but only
try to “take in” all the best points on his
route, so it is with me—I wish to speak of
many things but find it will be impossible
to do so unless my chapters were much
longer and even then I doubt whether it
would be as well as to make short chapters.
We hear people talk a good deal about a
higher moral education, and with this there
must certainly be mingled more politeness,
more courtesy towards one another; men
and women would be more deferential to
each other if they were more tender and
forgiving. Qur tranquility, our peace of
mind, our happiness depends  even more
perhaps upon small things than upon great;
we all feel this at times and yet we are neg-
lectful of doing our part.
   It would be better for us all if more
attention were paid to the little details and
trivial observances, which distinguish
enlightened nations from the barbarous or
half-civilized and yet in many things we
are more or less boorish and rude, without
the excuse for neglect of these matters that
the really ignorant have; for we know these
things and do them not.  It is want of at-
tention and not lack of knowledge or ability
often that makes us negligent of our social
duties.  To those who feel deeply the need
of an improvement in manners, and in our
bearing towards one another, and particular-
ly at home, for there is where it must begin,
it would be well to keep in mind the precept
of SENECA, which translated is, "Speaking
to others, what you dictate here; and learn
yourself  while  teaching  you appear.”
Those who have occasion to speak and write
upon this subject may do it in a spirit and
feeling that will be benificial to themselves
as well as others who may read or hear and
this should be considered, that we are all
children comparatively, all desirous of at-
taining to something higher and better.
Selfishness is said by some to lie at the root
of all sin, and certainly selfishness is a great
hindrance to politeness, because “the first
law of politeness is to be agreeable to every-
body even at the expense  of one’s own
comfort.
   “Society has some arbitrary rules which
it imposes upon  its members and which
continually restrict them in  their  actions,
in telling them how they must eat, and
drink, and dress, and walk, and talk and
so on,all tending to one end,the preservation
of harmony, and the prevention of one
person from usurping the rights of another
*  *  *  If these laws regulate the tone of
your speech, and pronounce you vulgar if
you talk in a loud voice, it is because people
have nerves and sensibilities which are
grated upon by harsh tones.
    High moral characters, a polished educa-
tion, a perfect command of tempor, delicate
feeling, good habits, and a good society.
These constitute good breeding, and pro-
duce good manners.  Wit, accomplish-
ments, and social talents are great advan-
tages, though not absolutely necessary.  On
the other hand birth is often lost sight of;
while wealth rank and distinction, so far
from being desirable, must be carefulley
handled not to be positively objectionable.
   The best definition ever given of good
society is: the meeting on a footing of
equality and for the purpose of mutual en-
tertainment, of men or women, or of men
and women together, of good character,
good education and good breeding.  A feel-
ing of perfect equality is necessary to the
ease of society; and so well is this exempli-
fied in well-bred circles abroad, that men
belonging to the old nobility,possessing the
advantages of generations of transmitted
culture, will as a rule, be found to be more
affable and more genial than are the sons of
the newly made aristoracy.  It is only the
new people, here and there, who are climb-
ing up into notice, who are pretentious,
and fancy they can make themselves of
importance, by being rude or insolent,
where as all insolences show such a lack
of conscience as regards the rights of
others, such a lack of training as to
the binding obligations of the well-
bred, that it proclaims unmistakeably the
imperfect culture and real vulgarity that is
endeavoring to masquerade as elegance.
No one is entitled to respect who fails in
respect towards others.  Let  those  who
meet with rudeness take no notice of it.
Above all, do nothing from revenge; and
they will be able to console themselves
with the thought of their own superiority.
*  *  *  Certainly  the  well-bred,  of  all
others, should be  able  to  bear slights and
rudenesses with fortitude.  By so doing,
they give testimony to the value  of  early
training, evidence their own supirority and
set an example that  will  not be  lost  upon
those who are witnesses.
   The sham aristocracy indulge  in  mush-
room-manners.  But  true aristocracy  in-
dulge their admiration  for  genius, talent,
courage, perseverance and all heroic  quali-
ties but they never bow  before  titles simp-
ly because of their titles.”
   Politeness does not mean  friendship  not
in the least,  courtesy  is the  rule  of  good
society and people who have antipathies to
each other may meet on the neutral ground
of a friend’s house with the utmost courtecy.
Your host’s friends are yours  for the time
being.
   One thing which should be considered
in the cultivation of manners  is time.
Hurry and  bustle are antagonistic to grace
and ease of manner.  There is a great deal
of hurry hubbub and jostling in this day and
age which is a hindrance to “fine manners.”
A writer on this subject of politeness says
“The sense of his own superiority, in which
young America indulges, is apt to cause
him to look down with lofty contempt on
those old-fashioned ideas of courtesy and
good breding which our fathers bequeathed
to us.”


[Column 1]

