EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have often felt a desire, to express my
feelings,through the medium of your paper;
but have refrained from doing so, through
the consciousness of my weakness. But on
reading the Charge.of Chief Justice Hunter,
to the Grand Jury, I feel to express some of
my thoughts thereon.
	He says, "The government of the United
States," "And polygamy cannot exist with-
in the same limits, and it is more than ap-
parent, it will not be the government that
will have to succumb." After seeking to
rob the Latter-day Saints, of the honor due
them, in reclaiming these desert wastes;
and bestowing that honor, on the "Gentile-
element," he says "Do you gentlemen,
think it was in the interest of polygamy,
that these vast changes have taken place?
Do you not rather see in them, the purpose
ot the Supreme Ruler, to teach, these peo-
ple their errors?"
	It the learned gentleman believes in the
Bible, and, will read the 107 Psalm, perhaps
he may see that the Prophet David, foresaw
the time, when, there would be a people,
even, "The redeemed of the Lord;" "Whom
He hath redeemed from the East, and
the West, and the North, and the South."
"And He led them forth by the right way,"
(after feeding the "hungry," "thirsty,"
"fainting," souls, wandering in the wilder-
ness.)
	Also, that He turned the wilderness into
standing water; and dry ground into water
springs; and there He made the "Hungry
to dwell, that they might prepare a city for
habitation." "And sow the fields, and plant
vineyards." "And He blesseth them so that
they are multiplied greatly;" "Again they
are diminished, and brought low;" How?
"Through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
Then what does the Lord do? "He poureth
contempt, upon Princes and causeth them
to wander in a wilderness, where there is
no way. Princes are rulers, or we may say
the government, What! The Lord going
to cause the government to wander in a
wilderness where there is no way, and be
lost? He certainly does not say that He will
lead them, by the "right way," so we may
infer that they may be lost. But what does
He do with the poor, and oppressed ones?
Let us see. Yet setteth He the poor on
high from affliction, and maketh him famil-
ies like a flock." The Lord do this? Indeed
He will. What then? "The Righteous
shall see it and rejoice, and all iniquity
shall stop her mouth." What is iniquity?
It is evident that all who seek the down-fall
of the people that God has led forth to this
desert land, and speak and fight against
the holy principle ot Celestial Marriage, are
by the Lord termed iniquity, and she shall
stop her mouth. Who will observe these
things? "The wise." What shall they un-
derstand? The loving kindness of the Lord
Then who will succumb?
