NOTES AND NEWS.

	FAMINE—The distress in Hungary on
account of the bad harvest is very great.
In fifty-seven towns and villages in Temes
County the greatest distress prevails. In
Saros County, where some cases of starva-
tion have occurred, forty parishes are
threatened with famine. Frightful ac-
counts are also recieved from the counties
of Aravj, Heves and Zemplin.—Ex.
  	A CURIOUS PICTURE has just found its
way to England, a portrait of "David" by
his own hand; a fine sketch, which appears
to have been the study of the portrait now
in the Louvre. It was brought out of his
studio after the fall of Paris, by Bostopchine
(the same who when Governor of Moscow
set fire to that city.) His son sold it to the
late Senator Nicholas Smirnoff, whose heirs
mow mean to dispose of it.
	WASHINGTON, 11.—At the regular meet-
ing of the board of school trustees for this
district, to-night the question was settled
of the application of Mrs Belva A. Lockwood
and six other women for placing a woman
on the school board, which was first sent to
the President, and by him referred to the
attorney general, then to the district com-
missioners' school board. The latter
adopted a report, admitting that there is no
legal obstacle to women serving as members
of district school boards, but taking the
ground that there are grave objections as a
matter of policy, and that therefore the pa-
plication should be refused.
	THE SPANISH FLOOD—The details of the
flood at Murcia are harrowing. The inun-
dation passed over the enormous stone table
in which Alicante is inlaid, streamed
through its arches, its half-dark piazzas and
narrow streets, and wrought havoc only
second to that which ravaged the plains of
Murcia. Eight villages were swept away
and four partially flooded. Ten thousand
inhabitants and a hundred families are
destitute. The loss of property exceeds 50,
000, 000 francs. the total loss of life will
exceed 3,000. A terrific stormburst oc-
curred on Friday night Oct. 24, at Menagal-
bon, near Malaga. Forty houses were
flooded, two of which collapsed, and two
persons were drowned.—Ex.


RECKLESS of orthography, an impassioned
swain wrote: "Mary, I love the well!"  She
replied that she was glad he didn't drink
spirits.


