R. S. REPORTS.

 The Second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies in the Bear Lake Slake of
Zion was held at Paris on the 18th and 19th
of October, commencing at 10 o'clock A. M.
On the stand were Pres. J. P. Lindsay and
her counselors, also the presidents of the
different Relief Societies throughout this
Stake. Meeting opened in the usual man-
ner, with singing and prayer.  The minutes
of previous Conference were read and ac-
cepted; also the statistical and financial re-
port of the Relief Societies and Primary
Associations.  Pres. Lindsay and counsel-
ors, Elizabeth Collings and Maria Rich, re-
spectively. addressed the congregation; ex-
hortod the sisters to be punctual in attend-
ing their meetings, also to be very careful
in regard to the language they use and the
example they set before their children, lest
they should rise up in accusation against
them hereafter.
 2 P. M.  The time was occupied by the
presidents of the various societies, giving
verbal reports of their condition, all show-
ing prosperity, and that some had been
very diligent in gleaning and storing grain.
 19th, 10 A. M.  The President and offi-
cers of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Associations occupied the stand.  Ap-
propriate remarks were also made by Bish-
ops H. J. Horne, Robert Price, J. Pugmire,
and Brother Richard Horne.
 2 P. M. Pres. J. P. Lindsay  addressed
the audience, giving a very spirited dis
course on Plural Marriage, also good and
valuable instructions to the presidents, and
other officers of the Relief Societies.
	Prests. J. H. Hart and George Osmond
heartily  endorsed  the  remarks  made by
the sisters, and encouraged them to perse-
vere and be steadfast in the good work in
which, they were engaged.  Choir sang.
Benediction.  Conference  adjourned sine
die.'
	All regretted that Apostle C. C. Rich was
detained at home, on account  of sickness
in-his family.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE.
				Corresponding Secretary.
			------
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
of Grass Valley, Sevier Co., was held at
the Grove Aug. 1.  There were present on
the stand Pres. Margreth Anderson, Coun-
selors  Eliza  Rust and Sabra  Hatch, also
Bishop  J.  H.  Wright and Counselors P.
Rasmussen  and T.  E.  Beck.  After the
usual exercises and reading of minutes, the
statistical and financial report was read as
follows: Statistical:  Teachers, 12;  mem-
bers,  72; total officers and members,  87;
meetings held semi-monthly, average at-
tendance 29;  WOMAN'S EXPONENT taken,
11  copies.  Financial:  Receipts,  cash,
$15.55; property, $44,30;  Disbursements,
to the Manti Temple, $8.50; home indus-
try, $10.82; books, $3.98;  to the poor, $4.43;
on hand in the Treasury,  $45.19; grain
stored for Zion 26 bushels.  It was then
moved and unanimously carried that we
sustain bur officers on the stand.
	Bishop J. H. Wright then gave us some
good instructions, telling us to go ahead
and put our trust in God; he was happy to
see the sisters striving to do what was right.
Pres. Margreth Anderson instructed the
sisters to be punctual in attending meet-
ings; thought we did not fully realize the
duties wo will have to perform in the fu-
ture; also encouraged us to lay up grain.
	Coun. Eliza Rust bore her testimony to
the truth of this work.  Coun. Sabra Hatch
read a very good piece of poetry composed
by herself.
	Counselors Peter Rasmussen and Thomas
E. Beck and others made very interesting 
remarks, telling us to go ahead and per-
form the duties that were placed upon us,
and said we should not be discouraged be-
cause we are poor, for the Lord is able to 
bless those who serve him.  Singing. Bene-
diction.
		MARGRETH ANDERSON, Pres't.
MARY JENSON, Sec’y.
				------
	Pursuant to notice the Relief Society of
Lehi met October 20, to accept the resigna-
tion of the president, Mrs. Sarah Coleman;
also to appoint a successor.
	There were present on the occasion Bish-
op Thomas R. Cutler and Counselors W. H.
Winn and A. R. Anderson, also President
Mrs. M. T. Smoot and Mrs. Lucy W. Kim-
ball of Provo.
	The Bishop read the letter of resignation
of Sister Coleman, which was accepted.  A
vote of thanks was tendered  Sister  Cole-
man for her efficient services to the Society,
and to Sister Barbara Ann Evans, her Coun
selor, who also had resigned.
	It was afterwards motioned that Sister
Rebecca Standring be President  of the Re-
lief Society of Lehi, with Mrs. Martha  P.
Thomas as first  and  Mrs. Mary J. Powells
as her second counselor.  Motion  unani-
mously sustained.  They were set apart by
the Bishop and counselors, after which Pres.
Mrs. Smoot addressed the meeting, stating
that she felt sorry that Sister Coleman
should resign, but knew she was getting
ripe in years and her health was feeble.
She advised the sisters to adhere to the
counsel of the Priesthood, and encouraged
them in relation to their duties.
	Bishop Cutler urged the sisters to union
and the sustaining of each other; said he
would assist them all that lay in his power.
	On the following  Monday  the annual
meeting was held, at which Bishop Cutler
and counselors were present.  After the open-
ing exercises, the yearly report was read
and accepted.  After which it was motioned
by Pres.  Standring  that Miss Elizabeth
Smith act as Secretary of the Society, with
Mrs. Mary Ann Standring as Assistant Sec-
retary; also Mrs. Mary Ann Anderson as
Treasurer.   Motion sustained,  and  these
sisters set apart by the Bishop and his coun-
selors.
	The Bishop  expressed  himself  as being.
pleased at  finding  the Society  was  in so
good a condition.  Admonished the sisters
to magnify their callings, and assist one an-
other that we may be enabled to attain to
the blessings  God  has promised  to his
Saints.
	Coun. Winn and  Anderson gave  advice
and counsel to  the Sisters, urging  them  to
unity and good works  in  Zion's cause.  A
good spirit and feeling  prevailed  through-
out both meetings.  It was  a time  of  re-
joicing.
WM. SOUTHWICK, Sec'y pro tem.


"IS THERE any cloves or cinnamon,"
asks a despairing moralist, "that will
sweeten the breath of scandal?"


