CHARACTER SIXTH.
			         -----
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
				 -----
   The next picture my gallery presents is a
metaphysical sort of character, but I plead
guilty to some degree of favoritism with
regard to it!  Still, I ever desire to be im-
partial, for none ought to sit as a judge who
lack this God-like attribute.
   Here is a fine organization, tall and mus-
cular, sensitive and nervous almost to dis-
ease—but the moral stamina of the charac-
ter holds these ever with a commanding
will, and they are seldom apparent now.
The mental and physical blend harmoni-
ously, and hence produce a happy tempera-
me[-]t.  This character has had the schooling
of a full life, which has strengthened its
prudence and brightened its wisdom; it
has an intuitive knowledge of “people we
meet,” and of course of associates and
friends. It is liberal and most charitable,
and gratitude is a striking feature.  It is
capable of great mental and physical suffer-
ing, both of which it has passed through,
and has become calm, content and loving
life! Its manners are indicative of this,
and I suppose they may be called “taking”
generally; but as there are such diversities
of tastes, perhaps they may not please all!
but that neither adds or detracts from them;
they are at any rate as nature made them,
for never were anything more unstudied.
Probably this may be considered the fault;
n’importe, we have no time to take the
trouble to discuss this point.  They (the
manners) carry the heart of the being, and
hold it up to the gaze of associates; and
this heart is so warm that it forces, per-
haps, the exotics of nature, which the
world’s frostiness nips and sends them back
chilled and shriveled, and this has caused
sorrow and disappointment.  But times and
half-times correct this precocious folly in
the school of experience, and the heart has
love, joy, peace, a love of truth, from what-
ever source it comes, honesty, candor and
sincerity! ’Tis possessed of social and do-
mestic virtues, fond of retirement, almost
solitude, yet when launched into society
enjoys it (if congenial) with a zest that
nature evidently points that way; but it is
only the few that can attract, or magnetize!
   Great love of books—oh! they have been
the pearl dissolved in the cup of life—the
jeweled link in life’s iron chain!  A strong
spice of poetry and romance in the compo-
sition; over-romantic, the worldling would
say, delightfully, deliciously so, the creature
itself defines it, declaring it the “philoso-
pher’s stone,” that converts all into gold,
giving a vision “coleur de rose!” But
remember with all these idealisms, suffi-
ciently plodding to be industrious and use--
ful, never eating the bread of idleness, or
becoming a drone in the hive.  Haughty
and proud, but still gentle and humble,
these extremes are sometimes remarkably
blended;  the  development  of  either
depended upon who handles the character,
or how it is handled!  may be led by a silken
thread, if love holds it, may be propelled
by a feather plucked from the downy wing
of love;  but a rod of iron,  held by the
hand of tyranny, changes the aspect, and
like the biting frost of winter fossilizes
beauty and happiness; hasty and impetuous,
but held in by the reins of self control,
quiet and enduring, generous, very; a soul
made for worship, consequently  highly
devotional; temperament pensive and po-
etical; temper under good control, consid-
ering the volcanic strata it passes through;
disposition good, calm, collected, and con-
centrated; firm, fond and faithful, cautious,
conscientious and conciliating;  to  these
may occasionally be found some antipodes—
“the flaws and blots that flesh is heir to.”
   The sketch is ended, as far as I intend to
develop it, and the sitting is over.
	   CHARACTER SEVENTH.
			      ------
   I was asked to write this character, and
desire to do so truthfully, commencing with
appearance; for assuredly “the spirit makes
the form,” unless it has lived in prison,
and one of royal calibre will find a way to
break the bands and force the lock sooner
or later.
   Moderate height and sturdy figure, the
“tout ensemble” decidedly  aristocratic;
light hair, very blue eyes, the expression of
the same, especially at times, riveting and
remarkable; great character in the mouth,
which is rather large; forehead rather broad
than high—the whole countenance convey-
ing a very pleasing expression, and by no
means devoid of that which exhibits force
and high tone.  Byron would have decided
upon the high birth of this lady by her
small hand and foot.  This woman was born
regal, but she did not know it; does she
know it even now, when half her life is
over upon the earth?  I doubt it.  Then
awake from thy slumbers, fair lady, and
“know thyself” and thy consequent respon-
sibilities!  Thou hast the warm, full blood
of Ephraim flowing in thy veins, and would
have made a Judith, or a Jeptha’s daughter
to such a father! thou hast been in a grand
school of experience, walk calmly, walk
cautiously, be not in haste, large bodies
move slowly, and thou art not small.  Ven-
eration is visible, yet not so large as to be
ever fanatical; not deficient in appreciation
of the subl[-]me and the beautiful; benevo-
lence large—not apt to soar into ideality,
having had sufficient ballast to be held on 
Terra firma; order good, but not excruciat-
ing; loves children, but does not deify
them; has lacked self-appreciation, not
realizing her own individuality, and so 
like one in the dark she has feared to ad-
vance another step; but she is emerging
into the light, and henceforth her walk
will be more decided, and as she becomes
acquainted with herself she will be more
confident, will feel the ground firm beneath
her feet, and will throw out a little more of
the sweet abandon of her character.  Fear
not, such an one as I am depicting can
never be vulgar, but merely make it more
artistic, needing no wrappings but the sim-
ple drapery of truth.
 This character would have excelled as an 
actress; she has many suitable requisites
for such a position—her voice alone would
thrill an audience, and her reading and
rendition would have “filled the bill.” She
should cultivate speaking as an art—should
learn to lecture; she could do it, did she
but unfold herself from the wrappings
placed upon her in the nursery and the
school-room, binding both heart and brain;
the former, being the mightiest organ, has
somewhat burst the bands.  To do anything
well, we must be at ease, must forget that
any eye is upon us; artistic actors always
raise their eyes above their audience, that
they may not see or be influenced by it; in
this way they escape the magnetism of
eyes and are free.
   A good neighbor, a firm friend where
she posesses to be, a devoted mother and a
faithful wife.  Need more be said?  Yes,
much more might be said, and the crown of
all is that she is a faithful Latter-day Saint
Here opens  the grand field upon which she
can stretch herself, walking like a good
soldier through the deserts of the same,
yet basking sweetly upon every oasis she
meets with in her pathway.  Here is the
grand theatre of her future life, extending
into the eternities.  My sister, call out thy
soul, and let thy sisters rejoice at the sound
of thy sweet voice and the subjects emitted
from the same.  No longer doubt yourself,
for such doubts are traitors, and make you
lose the good you oft might win.  Bless
your sisters in the assemblies of the Saints
--they are the handmaids of the Lord and
will appreciate you.  Trust in God, open
your mouth, and He will fill it.
   The ear of the writer of these few words
will listen for the fulfillment of her asser-
tions; she speaks with confidence, because
she knows the material is there.  May she,
feel that she has struck  chords that have,
awakened "A Harp of a thousand strings.”


