They must have the (Continued on page 256)
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
EMMA SMITH, THE PROPHET'S WIFE
LESSON IX
The Smith Farm. Shortly after the removal of the Smith family from Vermont to New York, the father, Joseph Smith, Sr., purchased a hundred-acre tract of land within the northern limits of Manchester township, some two miles south of Palmyra. Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, states that within the first year the family made nearly all of the initial payment, erected a log house, and cleared practically thirty acres of land for cultivation. In the meantime, she herself furnished all of the provisions for the family and replenished the household furniture through the sale of oil-cloth coverings for tables, etc., painted by her own hands.
Joseph's Employment with Mr. Stoal. To assist in maintaining the family and also in meeting the annual payments on the land, the male members of the family found occasional employment among the neighboring farmers and others near by. When Joseph had reached early manhood, an elderly gentleman by the name of Josiah Stoal came to the Smith home from Bainbridge, in the southern part of New York state, for the purpose of securing Joseph's services to assist in opening a purported silver mine, thought to have been formerly operated by Spaniards. Joseph attempted to discourage him in his purpose, but he was obdurate, and even offered Joseph a high wage if he would help him. Joseph finally accepted the offer and worked nearly a month when, at Joseph's repeated insistence, the project was abandoned.
Joseph's Marriage to Emma Hale. While thus engaged Joseph boarded at the near-by home of Mr. Isaac Hale, a respected citizen of Harmony, Pennsylvania. At this time Joseph first met Miss Emma Hale, daughter of Isaac. Mutual love followed. Rumors to the effect that Joseph had received heavenly manifestations aroused the opposition of Emma's parents to such an extent that they opposed her marriage to him. Because of this, the young couple went to South Bainbridge, where they were married at the home of Squire Tarbell, January 18, 1827. At this time Joseph was twenty-one years of age and Emma twenty-two. In the meantime Joseph had spoken to his parents of his intended marriage and received their hearty approval, also an invitation to bring his bride to their home. This Joseph did immediately after their marriage.
Mother Smith's Tribute to Emma. The following well-deserved tribute was subsequently paid by Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, to her daughter-in-law, Emma: "I have never seen a woman in my life, who would endure every species of fatigue and hardship, from month to month, and from year to year, with that unflinching courage, zeal, and patience, which she has ever done; for I know that which she has had to endure: She has been tossed upon the ocean of uncertainty; she has breasted the storms of persecution, and buffeted the rage of men and devils, which would have borne down almost any other woman." (History of the Prophet Joseph, Lucy Smith, Chapter 38.)
Joseph, Emma, and the Plates. The Prophet's mother relates that shortly after Joseph and his wife came to live at the Smith home, Joseph was stopped by an angel of the Lord on the highway near the hill Cumorah and given further instruction concerning the plates. Accordingly, as the 22nd of September approached?upon which date Joseph was to make his accustomed visit to the hill?interest at the Smith home was unusually high. Indeed on the twentieth of the month, Mr. Knight and Mr. Stoal, two of Joseph's friends from Colesville and Bainbridge, came to the Smith home, apparently because of their high regard for Joseph, and remained there until after the plates had been delivered into his care. Because of the extra work thus imposed upon the Prophet's mother, she had not retired by midnight of the 21st. She relates that shortly after twelve o'clock, on the morning of September 22nd, Joseph surprised her by asking for a chest with lock and key. Her inability to meet his request gave her alarm, but Joseph reassured her that all was well.
Shortly after this, Joseph's wife passed through the room with her bonnet and riding dress, and within a few minutes she and Joseph left together, taking Mr. Knight's horse and wagon. They did not return until after breakfast the following morning, at which time Joseph showed his mother the Urim and Thummim and again assured her that all was well. The part that Emma played in the early morning hours of September 22nd is not known, since neither she not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Prophet has left record of the proceedings. Shortly thereafter, when she was asked whether Joseph had the plates, she adroitly replied that she could not tell. The fact is that Joseph thad received them and, for sake of safety, deposited them in a hollow log. 7. Emma Carries Message to Joseph at Macedon. A few days later, as Joseph was engaged in digging a well for a widow in Macedon, it became known that unfriendly neighbors were determined, at any and all hazards, to obtain the plates. When Emma learned of this, she immediately mounted a horse and rode quickly to Macedon, some five to six miles away, and notified Joseph of the impending danger. Joseph borrowed a horse from the widow and returned with his wife to the Smith home, to which place he forthwith conveyed the plates and locked them in a strong hox, the purchase of which was made possible by digging the well. 8. Emma and the Lost Manuscript. Emma again showed her unbounded interest in the affairs of her husband at the time Martin Harris was permitted to take the one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript to his home. Almost immediately after Martin's departure she became the mother of a son who lived for a very short time. Thereafter for two weeks her life hung in the balance, but even so, she became alarmed for the safety of the manuscript and insisted that her husband go in search of it. This Joseph did after arranging for her mother to stay with her. When Joseph learned that the manuscript was lost, he cried aloud: ''Then must I return to my wife with such a tale as this? I dare not do it, lest I should kill her at once." 9. The Revelation to Emma. In July of 1830, some three months LESSON DEPARTMENT after the Church was organized and while Joseph and Emma were still living at Harmony, a_ revelation (Section 25) was received directing Emma in her various duties. In this revelation Emma is called an "elect lady" and told that her sins are forgiven. She is called upon to be a comfort to her husband and to assist him "'in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness." She is also directed to make a collection of sacred hymns for use in the Church, for, said the Lord: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with blessings upon their heads. Wherefore, lift up thy heart and rejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made. Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of pride. Let thy soul delight in thy husband, and the glory which shall come upon him. Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive." The remarkable extent to which Emma complied with these injunctions is briefly reviewed in the succeeding paragraphs of this lesson. 10. Emma Assists in Mission to the West. It will be recalled that some six months after the organization of the Church, and before the Prophet and his wife had left Fayette for Kirtland, revelations (See Sections 28:8-10; 30:5, 6; 32:1-3) were received directing the following named brethren to take a mission to the West: Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson. The journey, which was to be made largely on foot, was more than a thousand miles in length, and therefore entailed much preparation. Of the part taken in these preparations Lucy Smith, the Prophet's mother, says: "As soon as this revelation was 239 received, Emma Smith, and several other sisters, began to make arrangements to furnish those who were set apart for this mission, with the necessary clothing, which was no easy task, as the most of it had to be manufactured out of the raw material. Emma's health at this time was quite delicate, yet she did not favor herself on this account, but whatever her hands found to do, she did with her might, until she went so far beyond her strength, that she brought upon herself a heavy fit of sickness which lasted four weeks." 11. Death of Emma's Adopted Child. On the 31st of April, 1831, less than three months after Joseph and Emma had moved to Kirtland, Ohio, Emma became the mother of twins, a boy and a girl, both of whom died within the next few hours. Nine days later, hoping to fill the void occasioned by the death of her own children, Emma took the motherless Murdock twins to raise. In September of the same year Joseph and his family moved from Kirtland to the town of Hiram, some thirty miles to the southeast, where they had been invited to take up their residence at the home of John Johnson. Some time near the middle of March the twins were stricken with the measles and soon became so seriously ill that Joseph and his wife lost much rest in taking care of them. In the evening of the 24th while Emma had gone to bed to obtain much needed sleep, and Joseph was resting by the side of the stricken children, a mob burst into the house and summarily carried him away. During this mobbing, which continued throughout the greater part of the night, one of the twins, the boy, contracted a severe cold and soon thereafter died. 12. Helpfulness to the Sick. When Governor Boggs issued his exterminating 240 order, Emma and her little family bade good-bye to her husband, then in Liberty jail, and left with the body of the saints for Ilinois. Some months later, in April of 1839, Joseph joined his povertystricken family at Quincy, Illinois, and soon thereafter purchased a log house at Commerce (Nauvoo). Due to the hardships which the saints had undergone and to the unhealthfulness of the locality into which they had just moved, many of the brethren and sisters were stricken with serious illness. True to her devotion, both to Joseph and the saints, Emma brought the sick to her home in such numbers that she and her family were crowded out of doors and took up temporary quarters within a tent. 13. Emma, First President of the Relhtef Society. The part which Emma Smith played in the early history of the Relief Society is well known. She was appointed its first president by the Prophet at Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland, counselors, Eliza R. Snow, secretary, and Elvira Cole, treasurer. At this time the Prophet explained that the term "elect lady" ?applied by the Lord to Emma Smith in a revelation given some years earlier?had now been fulfilled in her election to the Presidency of the Society. The distinction of being Divinely selected as the president of such an organization with its unlimited possibilities for good, is of itself ample proof of God's acceptance of her. 14. A Comfort to the Prophet. In the summer of 1842 the Prophet was forced into retirement because of the unwarranted demands of certain officials in Missouri that he be extradited to that state and tried for the shooting of former Governor Boggs. While thus in seclusion on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a lonely island in the Mississippi river not far from Nauvoo, Joseph expressed a desire to be visited by Emma, his wife. Adroitly avoiding the sheriff by leaving the city in the opposite direction and passing around it by another way, Emma was enabled to reach her husband at the appointed time. She with others had previously met him at night time in mid-river. After her return to Nauvoo Joseph wrote to her in these endearing terms: "Dear Emma: I embrace this opportunity to express to you some of my feelings this morning. First of all, I take the liberty to tender' you my sincere thanks for the two interesting and consoling visits that you made me during my almost exiled situation. Tongue cannot express the gratitude of my heart, for the warm and truehearted friendship you have manifested in these things toward me." His letter closes as follows: ''Yours in haste; Your affectionate husband until death, through all eternity, for evermore." (History of the Church, Vol. 5, pp. 103-105.) 15. The Prophet's Tribute to Emma. Under the same date as the foregoing letter (August 16, 1842) Joseph recorded the following tribute to his wife: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band, on the night of the eleventh, on Thursday, on the island at the mouth of the slough, between Zarahemla and Nauvoo: with what unspeakable delight, and what transports of joy swelled my bosom, when I took by the hand, on that mght, my beloved Emma? she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart. Many were the reverberations of my mind when I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been, called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and sufferings, and the joys LESSON DEPARTMENT and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board. Oh what a commingling of thought filled my mind for the moment, again she is here?undaunted, firm, and unwavering ? unchangeable, affectionate Emma." (Ibid. Vol. 5, p. 107.) 16. Emma's Letier to Governor Carlin. Shortly after her return to Nauvoo, Emma wrote a masterful letter to Governor Carlin of Illinois, who had already honored the extradition papers demanding that Joseph be sent to Missouri. In this letter Emma made a pathetic and logical. Appeal for the welfare of both her husband and the suffering saints. A few days later Emma's letter was delivered to Governor Carlin at Quincy. In the presence of Judge Ralston. After carefully reading the letter, the Governor "passed high encomiums on Emma Smith, and expressed astonishment at the judgment and talent manifest in the manner of her address." (Emma's letter should be read and carefully analyzed by members of the class." See History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 115.) 17. Her Crown. Emma's devotion to her husband was unbounded. Perhaps on no occasion was this more fully apparent than at the time when the bodies of the two martyrs were brought to the Mansion House at Nauvoo. Time and again she attempted to enter the room where her slain husband lay, only to fail from exhaustion of both body and mind. Eventually as she reached his side and was passionately caress- 241 ing his lifeless form, a bystander attempted to comfort her by stating that her affliction would be to her a crown of life. Whereupon she answered quickly: "My husband was my crown." (Historical Record, p. 573.) 18. To the Last. For reasons best known to herself, Emma Smith did not accompany the Church to the West. She seemingly preferred to remain in Nauvoo and rear her children in the environment of the community where her husband lived and worked and died. In harmony with her well-arranged plans, she now rests by the side of her husband, - close to the little log house in which she and he lived when they first went to Nauvoo. Near by the "Father of Waters" is slowly measuring the time until the Great God of Heaven will call forth both the living and the dead to be judged according to their works. Questions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does Emma's going with the Prophet when he received the plates indicate that she was accepted of the Lord? 2. Analyze the revelation of the Lord to Emma Smith and show how she attempted to fulfill it. 3. What do you think of the Prophet's tribute to her. 4, Emma seldom had a home of her own. How was this a test of her devotion? 5. In what way was she a source of constant consolation to her husband? Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES