Social Service (Fourth Week in June) MAINTAINING PECULIARITIES AND DEVELOPING ORIGINALITY LESSON Ix It has been said that if we knew exactly what the future vocational and social activities of a person would be, we could train him carefully for them. But we live in an age of complex human desires, with a complex mechanical system of satisfying these. In industry and occupation there is minute fine specialization. The success of a system of specialization is a group of people different enough in temperament and ability to become expert in the many various lines of work. Psychology points out clearly that we have the differences and peculiarities in people that make this type of social organization possible. A proper preservation of these points of originality and a proper placement of people in occupational activities will produce the greatest amount of happiness. The aim of this lesson is threefold: 1. To have parents see the real significance and importance of variations and differences in the abilities and interests of their children. 2. To direct the class members to real action in seeing that parental ambitions, mass education, traditional measures of school work and other things do not crowd out or crush these expressions of originality. 3. To have the class members see clearly that it is possible to safeguard these variations and at the same time train children in a common language, a common loyalty, common social courtesies and ideals of character. This aim in terms of American education was stated by Dr. I. L. Kendall in the following sentence: "Many of the ideals which underlie American character arose out of the pioneering conditions of the frontier. On the good side these conditions demanded resourcefulness and selfreliance, equality of individuals, and at the same time ability to cooperate with the common good." 4. To encourage class members to feel themselves and teach their children that people who differ from us are neither inferior nor superior, because of those differences, but that it is the degree to which each contributes what he can and cooperates kindly for the good of all, that determines who is the better. Suggestions for procedure: 1. Make the aims clear. 2. Assign the reading guide carefully. 3. Individual members of the class may investigate local school conditions and report on topics similar to the following: 1. Is there a uniform passing mark? 2. 'What are the required subjects? Are there any adjustments? 3. How are elective subjects determined? 4. If children are sectioned on the basis of ability do the slower sections feel inferior? 5. What guidance work is provided in the schools? 6. What determines a school failure? 4, The high school principal may be asked to lecture on the subject: The Successes of our brilliant, average, and less brilliant pupils. 248 Have him stress the way in which adaptations have made happiness possible for all. 5. The class can then read together and discuss the supplementary material. Class Members Reading Guide: Habits, p. 6; Habits, pp. 8-9; Personality, pp. 3-10. Begin by reading the chapter in Personality. Here you will find the following key sentences: "Every normal child has within him the possibilities of a happy and useful life." p. 3. "Each child is different from every other, and the family that forgets this, and expects its children to follow one pattern, is bound to feel? and to cause?disappointment." p. 5. "The outstanding need, in the building up of personalities that can withstand the pressure of life, is emphasis on the child as an individual. We must learn more about human behavior in general, and then we must apply what we know to the children in our care, remembering that each one requires study as to what his own personal needs are, and as to how the surroundings in which he lives are contributing to or checking his development." Study the setting in which these statements are made. The following problems should be in your mind as you read the material again. 1. Uniform personal and health habits are needed. Adjustment to individuality is largely then a matter of method. Habits, pp. 8-9. 2. Sometimes conventional institutions must give way to the spontaneous play of children. Habits, p. 6. 3. Home and family life will need to safeguard itself in regard to several specific dangers inherent in it at we present time. Personality, pp. 4-6. 4. The basic instinctive needs of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all children need expression. Personality, pp. 6-7. 5. Children with anti-social or. Undesirable variations in conduct are to be studied and educated rather than punished. Personality, pp. 7-8. 6. Success in original activities is to be rewarded in the social order. Suppl ementary Material: 1. The School Problem. A. General Problem. "Wihat is there in our present program that makes for individuality, independence of thought, imagination, insight, initiative, choice instead of mere traveling with the herd? This we should capitalize. How can the program be improved? Obviously disciplining children in a fixed course will not do; the individual must have a chance to express himself. Childish choices must be encouraged and guided to sensible outcomes. Variation must be expected and provided for. Situations calling for initiative must be provided. The possibility of change and improvement must be emphasized." (Editorial Journal of Educational Method. Dec., 1930.) "It is of high importance to prevent the spirit of mass production, which has found its way into the control of pretty much all the processes of industry with resultant economic advantage and esthetic loss, from similarly dominating any part of the field of education, elementary, secondary or higher. The individual is too precious to be sacrificed to the mass. He should be surrounded by those opportunities for diversity of interest, of occupation and of expression that will invite and encourage him to make the best possible use of his talents." (Report of the President of Columbia University, 1928.) B. Dangers of developing the LESSON DEPARTMENT feeling that less efficiency in Mental Tests or School Work are marks of uselessness or undesirability. Commissioner E, W. Butterfield of Connecticut discussed this question at the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association in 1931. In part he said: "One night a mother called upon me, a stranger, who had driven fifteen miles to see me because she thought from my position I must be very wise. With tears and averted face, she told me her story. "My husband is out in the car,? she said, 'He is too ashamed to come in and I don't know how to tell you this, but we have a boy of thirteen and he is dull. He studies every night, but he doesn't do well in any of his classes, and the superintendent thinks he should repeat the seventh grade. His cards have always been poor though the teachers have helped him after school. At first he didn't care but now he is older and he feels bad to be different from his schoolmates. His teacher has written to me that I am not to expect too much of Ralph, as he is doing as well as one of his ability can do. She has tested his intelligence and finds it is only ninety percent. I know that my husband is bright, but I am afraid 1 am feeble-minded, and have never known it before. "Then I began to question her about Ralph, and she told another story. He was neat and kept himself clean and his room picked up. He was never saucy to his parents, he always did the dishes when his mother had a headache. He was a good singer and played well on his saxophone. He read the American Boy each week and kept the family and neighborhood radios in repair. He was keenly interested in his garden. He planted it and took entire charge. At a roadside stand, and to 249 route of regular customers, he had sold $23.15 worth of beets, cucumbers, lettuce, and string beans. This money, except for Christmas presents to his parents, he had in the bank. He had spent a happy two weeks' vacation with an uncle who is a big hen farmer, and now Ralph has a vocation in sight. "Then I said to my visitor, 'You are entirely mistaken in thinking that Ralph is dull. You have a bright boy and should be both proud and happy. He is school dull but he is home bright, working bright, saving bright. For the social advantage and for his own mature satisfaction, you should keep him at school until high school graduation, but let him choose, as far as possible, subjects which do not abound in words and definitions. Be patient and endure the penance of these years. Keep the home and music and garden as now, but add the hens, and know that when once he graduates he will never be dull again. It is probable that he will be a good business man, an effective producer, and a reliable citizen. He will choose a wife with discrimination and make her happy.' "
C. Tyranny of Special interests and activities. Universities and high schools sometimes permit students in one department to so discredit the work in other departments that students interested in these latter ones feel shame. President Faunce of Brown University tells this story: "Recently speaking at a certain college, I ventured to quote a sonnet of Shakespeare that has been precious to me for many years. At the close of the address as the assembly was dispersing, a shame-faced student showed me a copy of Shakespeare's sonnets which he carried in his inside pocket. He was reading it slyly in moments of leisure, but 250 afraid to show it to his fellow students, who preferred the vulgar periodicals of the day. In that particular college the best was obliged to hide its head. Then democracy becomes hatred of excellence, and that hatred is found today in many schools and clubs and churches in America. The great danger in our schools is that they may be geared to the capacity of the average child, and there is no such creature. They should be geared to the discovery and training of leaders, in the confident conviction that most of our children may lead in something, and that the discovery of the boundless varieties of human ability wrapped up in the most prosaic (common-place) and unpromising children makes the daily task of the teacher an adventure into the infinite far more alluring than any expedition in hunting and fishing, a true voyage of discovery in realms of gold." Democracy means, then, an equal chance for unequal minds. (Journal of the National Education Association, April, 1928.)
D. The Tyranny (cruel exercise of power) of Marks and Eligibility Requirements. Some children find it difficult with even great effort to meet uniform grades in specific required work. Their lives fit with exceptional happiness into certain other activities. The right to expression is barred to them because they are different.
2. Parental Problems.
A. Making the child fit a planned program to satisfy parental ambition or compensate for parental disappointment. A professional man brought in his three-year-old son. Mental tests were given. The evidence pointed unmistakably to ordinary ability. The father forced an admission from the clinic workers that it would be doubtful whether his son would complete college or perhaps even high school. "At this Mr. Prentice burst out: 'If that's the case, I don't want to raise him. I would rather he died this week than feel I had produced a moron. Why, I don't know anyone who hasn't gone through college! All my associates are college people. I was an honor man myself!' " (Sayles, The Problem Child at Home, p. 46.) Of another case Sayles reports: "United in little else, they were as one in their efforts to push and prod their small daughter into doing a higher grade of school work than her good but not remarkable ability seemed to make possible. Much of her nervousness and her poor school adjustment was clearly traceable to this prodding and to the constant fault-finding that accompanied it." (p. 49.) "Whenever we find marked differences between the children of a family, we must undertake to provide opportunities which will give outlets to the unique abilities of each child, no matter in what directions those abilities may lead. The shortsightedness of parents who try to develop their children along lines in which they themselves are interested or capable, is accountable for much unhappiness. Each normal individual has within him or her the possibilities of a happy, useful adult life, and the sympathetic search for and development of a number of these innate possibilities lie within the power of the parent." (Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, p. 72.)