Literature THE DHELIGHT OF Great Books (Third Week in June) "An air is more lasting than the voice of the bird, A word is more lasting than the riches of the world." The story of a nation's literature is the history of the forces that have entered into the nation's composition, molded its career, and marked the genius of its people. The songs and tales of a primitive people are symbols of the Past, if we can discover their meaning we have a clue to the spiritual character of the people who made them. "The Past may be forgotten, but it never dies." The Celt and his World. The Irish are a Celtic people. In Ireland, where the past still lives, every place has its tradition and every name its story. Much of the past is still shrouded in mystery, that long march of "noble men of Arya" to the Celtic singers of today, but much has been discovered. In the chronicles of the classical nations about 500 B. C. There are frequent references to a people of great strength and influence living in Central Europe, the Celts. They were tall, fair, and masterful, loving splendor and adornment, driven by passion rather than reason, and seeing deep into the mystery of things. Aristotle recorded that they dwelt beyond Spain and had captured Rome. Ephorus wrote that they had the same customs as the Greeks and were on the friendliest terms with them. At the height of their power, 390 B. C., they conquered Rome. Then for ages they dwindled and wandered. As Ossian said of them, "They went forth to war, but they always fell." The remnants of the race settled in Gaul ?Old Irish Proverb. And Britain. Cesar found them there and recorded valuable facts about their culture and religion in his military records. The Roman invasion of Britain drove the Celts to the fringes of the islands, now Cornwall, Wales, Scotland, Ireland. After the Teutonic occupation of Britain, the elements of charm, complexity, and spirituality remained with the Celtic remnants molding their history and in turn stamping the character and the genius of their race on the English speaking peoples. The Celtic temperament is a thing apart from other races just as is the Latin and the Teutonic. The things of the Spirit were the very core of their life and thought, in no other people is the feeling for the supernatural so intense. Religion, the great force in Celtic life, was administered by a priestly caste, the Druids. The priest was the prescribed intermediary between God and man. The teachings of the Druids are still surrounded by mystery, as they forbade the committal of their doctrines to writing. They believed in the immortality of the soul as the existing evidence of their strange burial customs will attest. The moodal temperament of the Celt is the source of his genius, the genius to be a builder of poems. The literature of the pre-Christian Celts is a splendid mass of heroic and legendary tales. This saga-romance material falls into three great cycles?the Mythological, the Cuchulain (Cu-hu'lan), and the Fenian. Cuchulain is the greatest figure of 244 the ancient literature, the heroic cycle records his mysterious birth and parentage, his rearing, his wooing of Emer, a series of combats with the King of Connacht, the last great combat in which unknowingly he slays his own son. The famous story of Deirdra (Dar'dra) belongs to the Culculmlain cycle. The story of Deirdre is the finest remnant of early Irish literature. She has been called the Helen of Ireland, and the tragic pathos of her love and death has been almost endlessly sung by the modern poets?Yeats, Russell, and Synge among them. Fin mac Cumhail (Cool), the central figure of the Fenian cycle of romances, is a kind of Irish King Arthur with a Round Table organization. No other early literature has such a gallery of women, vigorous, independent, fieryhearted women as Deirdre, Meve, Grania, and Findabair. After Saint Patrick, a Celt, apostolized Ireland in the fifth century, the literature of the early Irish was collected, copied, and preserved. Today there is a strange mingling of the old paganism with Christianity, elves, banchees, leprechaums, haunted raths and streams are to be found everywhere in Ireland as in the distant past. The Celtic Renaissance: The Irish Renaissance was a conscious movement for the reconstruction of Irish life. The movement has various phases, literary, dramatic, economic, and social. The literary revival was directed by individuals who felt that the soul of Ireland was to be found in its tradition, in its history, and in its folk-legends. They viewed nationality less as a political force than a spiritual force creating ideals. The Gelic League was organized to attempt the restoration of the Irish language. The chief service of the League, however, has been the recovery of the Celtic tradition RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE long hidden in the undeciphered manuscripts of old Gelic poetry. Two poets and scholars, George Sigerson and Douglas Hyde, labored at this task. Their translations of the precious pieces of folk literature have been already the treasure house for poetic and dramatic material. A new generation of writers has been inspired and a national literature of poetry, drama, prose fiction, and essays has been produced. This new body of literature, intensely national in its origin, has qualities which appeal to all English-speaking peoples ?'"a singular revelation of the human soul in all places and all times." Modern Irish Poets. William Butler Yeats. The chief spokesman for the new poetic Ireland, William Butler Yeats, is a lover of the shadowy beauty of pagan Ireland. He was born at Sligo (1866) in the rugged west of Ireland. Beautiful to look at with dark face and eager eyes, as a youth he suffered from being unlike his fellows, "a genius among the commonplace." His natural intellectual and spiritual curiosity found its early satisfactions in the legendary lore of Ireland. The countryside around Sligo was the holy land of fairy-lore where he gathered the folk gossip of the peasants. He seemed to find the soul of Ireland in these folklegends. "The Celtic Twilight" is a collection of supernatural tales founded upon the legendary material. "Ghosts flicker through these tales. ?Beautiful meanings crept in, glimmering behind words like a flame shining through a curtain." Yeats joined the Irish nationalists and became leader in the Celtic Renaissance not to foster a political revolution: he desired a spiritual renaissance. The Nobel Prize was conferred on him in 1923, "for his consistently emotional poetry, which in LESSON DEPARTMENT the strictest artistic form expresses a people's spirit." He worked zealously with Lady Augusta Gregory to establish the Irish National Theatre. He is at the present time a senator of the Irish Free State and Minister of the Fine Arts in the Dublin Cabinet. Everything he writes, tales, essays, poems, and plays has a wistful beauty, a shadowy mysticism, and a lingering melody. George William Russell By general consent George William Russell, who writes under the pseudonym "A?," ranks next to Yeats among modern Irish poets. A man of singular integrity and beauty of character he is a leader of the nationalist movement. As editor, publisher, and philosopher he has encouraged the profession of letters in Ireland. His prose writings deal with national affairs. To admirers of his poetry he is known as "the poet of the shadows." Poetry to him is the ritual of his religion believing with Plato that inspiration is a divine gift only attained by those who have kept their souls sensitive to beauty. Hence his poetry is emotional and often mystical showing marked influence of Irish folk-lore. A worshiper of the spirit of nature, he is closely related to Wordsworth of the English poets: "The power is ours to make or mar Our fate as on the earliest morn, The Darkness and the Radiance are Creatures within the spirit born. Yet bathed in gloom too long, we might Forget how we imagined light." Padraic Colum. 'As one of the founders of the Irish National Theatre, Padraic Colum has been associated with Yeats in the Celtic Renaissance. His work as a dramatist is better known than his poems. His poetry represents the distinctive note of the younger generation of Irish poets. In "Wild 245 Earth" the poems reveal a contact with Irish national life. He pictures peasants at their work, old women by their firesides, young girls at their spinning. His poetry is free from sentimentality; it is strong with the strength of the soil?intense and vivid depicting man's struggle with nature. At present Colum is living in America, and writing tales for children drawn from the great myths of the world. "A Cradle Song," is one of the most appealing of his peasant poems. The Wanderings of Oisin?William Butler Yeats. The poem is an Irish Odyssey, the story of Oisin's long years of wandering in "fairy lands forlorn." One day in his youth while hunting with his companions, Oisin meets a beautiful maiden, Neave. She sings to him of the Land of Ever Young: "Where ten have heaped no burial mounds, And the days pass by like a wayward tune Where broken faith has never been known, And the blushes of first love never have flown." Together they go forth over the glossy sea to the Island of Dancing. Oisin stays for a hundred years hunting, fishing, dancing, singing, loving. One day, standing by the sea, he finds in the foam the shaft of a broken lance, then he begins to remember. As he remembers a change comes over everything. A faint song of the sorrow of human things breaks the enchantment. Oisin and Neave mount once more upon horseback and ride on the Island of Victories. Here Oisin sets a maiden free who is held captive by a demon. The demon comes to life again every fourth year, and so the battle is endless. *U-sheen 246 After a hundred years the hero passes on to the Island of Forgetfulness. At first he endeavors to awaken the sleepers. All is in vain and so the lovers sleep side by side for another hundred years. When Oisin awakens he is once more filled with a longing to return to his own world. Neave consents, with foreboding of evil, for if he touches the earth he will never be able to return to her. Arriving in Ireland, which he left in the heroic pagan days, he finds all changed. The men are miserable and weak, singing no longer the joyous songs of old. Instead of his people, the Fianna, a religion of penance and prayer controls the land. Sick at heart, lonely and sad, like Tannhauser, he seeks again his immortal love. On the shore Oisin sees two men staggering under a heavy load. In a moment of forgetfulness he leans to help them and falls to the ground. The spell is broken and Ojisin finds himself a creeping old man. To him then comes Saint Patrick, who wishes to hear his story. Learning that the Fianna have been doomed to eternal damnation he refuses the invitation to repent and seek forgiveness, preferring to be with his comrades ''on the flaming stones of hell." The legend, as Yeats has treated it, has a certain philosophic value. Patrick and Oisin represent two kinds of feeling about life. Oisin with Celtic spirituality is in love with the visible beauty of life and with action. The Christian spirituality of Saint Patrick has its interest in the realm RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the soul not in the life of this world. The expression of the one is in exuberance while that of the other is in asceticism. In the portrayal of the Celtic spirituality Yeats has excelled, because there is always present "the haunting beauty of a twilight world." Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books? Erskine. The Celtic Dawn?Morris. The Celtic Twilight?yY eats. William Butler Yeats?Reid. American and British Literature?Van Doran. Since 1890. B. Projects. 1. Music: Irish National 'Airs. A. Believe Me if All Those Endearing Young Charms. B. The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls. C. The Last Rose of Summer. D. The Minstrel Boy. 2. Biographical Sketch: a. The Celt and His World. B. William Butler Yeats. 3. Readings: a. Selections from Modern Irish Poems. 4. Story: a. Deirdre. B. The Wanderings of Oisin. C. Method: The material in the lesson is adequate if no other material is available.