RESEARCH. 303 live to complete this work. That her death prevented this attainment, is only one of the many disappointments she met with marvelous courage. It was said by one of Sister Crocheron's friends, "Augusta Crocheron seemed to me to always have the wrong setting, so refined, so gentle, so desirous of everything beautiful, and yet denied them all." It might appear this way to many who knew and loved her, and yet she was a woman who had such a depth of feeling that she found happiness and wealth, where others could not comprehend. Her love for flowers was almost a passion, and wherever she lived her dooryard was resplendent in color. She found perhaps her greatest pleasure in reading, and books were not denied her. In the perusal of their pages she forgot her woes, and spent many happy hours. She loved nature and enjoyed solitude, for there she found the inspiration which called forth the songs of her heart in poetic verse. It seems to me that I have always known and always held dear, Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Perhaps our spirits knew each other before this dispensation. Hers was a spirit finely tempered and tuned for the artistic and poetic things of life. It is some comfort to believe that the severe refining she received in life's furnace, Kingdom. better prepared her for a glorious setting in our Father's RESEARCH. "What constitutes 'Society'?" inquired the Man from Mars; "Is it a gathering of wealth and intellectual stars?" "Ho, ho!" replied the rustic youth who wore a grin serene, "Society's our Mayday dance upon the village green." "Not so," the housemaid gayly said. "That isn't it at all. To find society you should attend the coachmen's ball." The serious woman said, "If for society you search You'll find the very best there is coming to my church." The studious one remarked, "The very highest social force You may discover if you will attend our lecture course." And some said that society was made for games of chance. And others mentioned art and brains and beauty and the dance. The Man from Mars looked puzzled and remarked, "It seems to me Society is all mankind, including even me; And each of us looks just beyond his own familiar sphere; The impulse is what made me leave my home and come down here. Society's a picture which we fill wiith fa\s and elves And, when we meet them, find that they are persons like ourselves." Her Vocation. By Sophy Valentine. Helen Andrews had unexpectedly fallen heir to a small fortune. She was no longer young, having passed her forty-fifth birthday, and the buoyancy of youth had gone. It was with rather a wistful expression she sat that first evening, after the news of her good fortune had reached her, contemplating her altered prospects. Having been cashier for years in a modest establishment, with a small salary, and accustomed to nipping her every desire in the early budding, she could hardly now adjust herself to this new position of affluence. "What the first withover. shall I do was astonishment all the money?" she wondered, after "Oh, if it had only come twenty years ago, when I might have enjoyed it to the fullest extent; when my whole being hungered for something worth while; for love, for light, for beautiful things; when I was ambitious; when it might have helped me to fulfil my life's greatest desires. Now it's too late to do much, if any, good. All I need now, I guess, is a shroud and a decent burial place, but as I have already insured for three hundred dollars, I could get that without this money." She heaved a deep sigh. "Ah, if it had only come twenty years ago. It might have helped me get the education I hungered for, the place in society I craved, with all my heart — it might even have helped me get a husband; who knows? There are men like that, pretty good men, too, as men go. I might now have been a happy wife and mother, instead of a sour old maid. But pshaw, come to think of it, I might have had a husband without the money. There was one, two — yes, there were three that I could have married, had T wanted to. There was Clarence, for instance, very handsome, but such a miserable good-for-nothing, as very handsome men are so often apt to be. Then there was Paul: good, honest Paul, but so woefully uneducated; almost ignorant. No, I never could have endured that. Then, of course, there was the widower with four children, he was both good-looking, and somewhat educated; but there were the children, I was afraid of them. Afraid I couldn't do justice to them. Was that really the reason? That's what T told him. but — yes, T think it was really selfishness, it was too much trouble. Dear me, T might have done worse. I might have earned the blessing of these children's gratitude." She sighed again. "No, it's useless to mourn over lost opportunities: the question