GUIDE LESSONS. 339 nurses ? interest themselves in this matter, but also philanthropic people who are not trained professionally, but who perhaps by study, association, or experience have gained useful knowledge which they are glad to impart. Institutes or schools for research work have been founded by some of those men of wealth who at heart are humanitarians. The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, in New York City, was established for the complete investigation of the nature and causes of human disease and methods of its prevention and treatment. Also to establish a department of animal pathology to improve the health of poultry, cattle, and other farm animals. These institutions cost money, Mr. John D. Rockefeller having given $12,500,000. exclusion of the building and the grounds. "Some of the practical achievements of this institute are the discovery of the serum treatment of epidemic meningitis; the discovery of the cause and mode of infection of infantile paralysis; the surgery of blood vessels, through which transfusion of blood has become a daily life-saving expedient; the safer methods of administering anaesthetics, and the cultivation of the parasite of rabies." With the increased knowledge of childhood's needs, and the solicitous care accorded the infant, it is no wonder that the death rate among children has so greatly decreased. A few statistics will readily show the great difference between the present death rate and that of past times. Reliable statistics may be obtained from recent hooks, pamphlets, or magazine articles, of which so many are now published. Public talks on the care of children, given bv reliable physicians and nurses, are very helpful and much to be recommended. However, there are general facts, easily learned, with which every mother should be familiar, and which may safely be put into practice. First, every one should realize that the tenderest age in the life of the child, and in some respects, the most important time, is the first two years. An authority on diseases of children, makes the statement, that "functional derangements and organic disease are more common, and the mortality greater between the ages of six months and two years, than at any other period of childhood." Heredity may have much to do with the ill health of a child, but strong hereditary tendencies may be overcome by intelligent feeding, healthful surroundings, and careful training. With this in view, stations have been established in most large cities, where pure milk is supplied to babies who are in need and instructions as to feeding. Sanitary conditions are looked after by boards of health. The results are that many precious baby lives are saved. 
 Greatest care should be taken to maintain or establish good health, that the so-called diseases of childhood may not have fatal results or harmful effects. It often happens that children of high-grade, mental, and nervous temperament seem peculiarly susceptible to disease, and require tenderest care. The diseases common to childhood, to be dreaded, are measles, whooping-cough, and scarlet fever. The last is most to be feared, because it is so highly and subtly contagious, and the occasional effects so direful. Many splendid children have lost their sight and their hearing, and thus have become deaf mutes, as a result of scarlet fever. Any of the diseases mentioned, when they do not prove fatal, may leave bad results that hamper the victim through life. The wisdom of quarantine regulations is manifest, and any member of the community should be heart and soul in aiding the enforcement of the quarantine rules. Where children have been exposed to contagion, their general health should be guarded more carefully than ever, and when symptoms of serious illness appear, there is wisdom in calling a physician early. QUESTIONS. What would be some of the results of the human family of increased health and lengthened life? Name some of the advantages of passing through childhood in health. How may accidents or illness be averted? What is one of the main objects of the wise physician, mother, or nurse? Name some of the ways in which medical science has advanced? How is knowledge of health principles extended? Tell what you can about the Rockefeller Institute? What would you say about public health talks? What is the tenderest age in child life? What about heredity in children? Of what benefit are milk stations? Have you any in your district? Do you need any? Name some childhood diseases likelv to leave bad results. Can anything be done to prevent? What do you think about quarantine regulations? What about giving early treatment in sickness? GUIDE LESSONS. 341 Lesson IV? A Few Facts Every Mother Should Know. How to keep the baby well nourishe mother. but not permit overfeeding should the understood by every Over-feeding or improper food bring on intestinal troubles more readily than any other causes. When intestinal sickness occurs, the food supply should be immediately stopped until the trouble is better. Sterile water may be freely given? cold, unless there is nausea (vomiting), and m that case, the water should be given hot. A flannel bandage wrapped around the abdomen is beneficial in bowel trouble, because it helps to keep the skin at an even temperature. Babies should be kept clean and sweet? it seems wrong to the infant to have it otherwise. It is a blessing to the mother of today that clothing? simple and plain, and planned for comfort? is the correct thing. The temperature of the child should be equable, avoiding extremes of heat or cold ? both are injurious. It is a good rule to keep the feet warm and the head cool. When babies are nursed regularly, there is little danger of colic or bowel trouble. After six months babies rarely need night nursing. . Do not let the babies be exposed to draughts. It is very careless and even reprehensible to take baby from his warm bed and carry him rapidly through cooler air, without protection from air currents. The sudden change has been known to bring on serious lung trouble. Nothing is better for baby than plenty of fresh air, summer and winter, but the child should be properly dressed for the prevailing temperature. Children's eyes should be protected from glaring lights, either artificial or natural. We all have seen babies with nothing but tiny bonnets or caps on their heads, facing strong sunlight, with no protection whatever for the eyes. In very first baths, a baby should be handled by a skilled nurse, and the water should be of the right temperature. Infants have been known to receive a shock in some manner that gives them an unconquerable aversion to bathing. While it is the duty of the mother to keep her baby clean, even so good a thing as bathing may be overdone. There are times when a sleep would be better than a bath, and the mother needs wisdom to decide. Above all things, children should be protected from nervous shock. Sudden or loud noises, rough handling or tossing, being kept awake, when they should be sleeping, all these things tend to lower the vitality and harm the nervous system and the injury might be permanent. 
 When children have fever, it is soothing, comforting, and coolng to sponge them with soft cloths, wrung out of cool or tepid water. Bathing the wrists or wrapping them in a wet, cool, cloth, quickly reduces the temperature, because on the wrists there are arteries so near the surface. In case of accident where there are severe bruises or broken bones, wring cloths out of water as hot as the hands can bear, and lay over the injury, while awaiting the arrival of the physician. That treatment allays pain and reduces swelling. If, in the same way, a child should get cut, and the blood comes out in spurts instead of a steady flow, it shows that an artery has been cut. Pressure should immediately be placed between the injury and the heart, and a very tight bandage applied until skilled attention can be given. It may save a life by keeping one from bleeding to death. A mother who has become overheated through overwork or fast walking should take a good drink of water before nursing her babe. ? QUESTIONS. What can you say about the feeding and overfeeding of babies? What about food and also about water in cases of intestinal trouble? What about changing temperatures for baby? What about fresh air for baby? What about caring for babies' eyes? What about babies' baths? Do children sometimes needlessly receive permanent injuries to their nervous systems? How? How may children be soothed in fever? What would you do in case of bruises or broken bones? What would you do if an artery were cut? Elizabeth S. Wilcox. An arrangement which makes it possible to clean the outside of upper-story windows without serious inconvenience or danger, conists of a metal grip which holds an absorbent cloth at the end of a handle and on its top side carries a rubber squeegee. Notes from the Field. President Joseph F. Smith, and wife, Counselor Jiihna L. Smith and Bishop Nibley and wife, Rebecca Niebaur Nibley, left this city five weeks ago, to visit Hawaii. They met Senator Smoot and wife in Honolulu. These sisters all visited with the Relief Society in Honolulu, Laie and Waikai. The Hawaiian sisters in this distant country are working hard in their regular Relief Society duties. They are delighted with our new Magazine, and as one result, they have put their gardening lessons to such good account, that the Primary and Relief Society have planted out lovely and fragrant beds of brilliant tropical flowers around the Mission House. The lawn is dotted with these garden plats. Sister Smith made a special point of encouraging the sisters to hunt out their genealogies, each trying to secure the largest list of names from month to month. While there. Elder Peter Kaealikaihonua died, and was robed in Elder Fernandez's temple suit for burial. The sisters felt impressed to replace that burial suit, while they were there, and singularly enough, the day after they left, Elder Fernandez himself died. When the President's party arrived at Portland, on their return journey, they found Sisters Emma A. Empy and Janette A. Hyde there. All remained for Stake and Relief Society Conference, and to dedicate the Portland Meetinghouse, and have just returned in excellent health and spirits. Welcome home. R. S. Nurse and Obstetric School. We are happy to announce that the General Board will continue the regular Nurse School, combining with it a thorough course in Obstetrics. We are anxious to bring this important branch of our Relief Society service up to the highest standard of efficiency, so that our young mothers everywhere can feel to place themselves safely and securely in the hands of our graduated obstetricians. This seems to be the natural and pleasing custom of the ancient peoples, and it is also the solution of one phase of the heavy expense attendant on parenthood, in this luxurious age. The school will open in September. We would like to encourage each ward president to send at least one candidate to take this course. Particulars will be furnished on application to the General Secretary. Don't Throw the Old Mesh Bag Away No matter how badly it is worn we can put it in shape just as good as new. Send it in we give you the cost of repairs first. McCONAHAY The JEWELER 64 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" City Bank Connections Means Much to Out"Mutual Made" of-Town People Most out-of-town people have city transactions. The BUTTERS services of a bank are ofttimes needed. Establish relations Two brands: "Blanchard" and with this bank and be pre"Four-in-One." They're as supared. Four per cent interest perior to the "usual run" of butpaid on savings deposits. Next ters as cream is to milk. You'll time you are in town come in bear us out in this when you and see us. We want to know commence using them. you. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank MUTUAL CREAMERY Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. COMPANY John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. 11 Creameries in 7 States. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 So., Salt Lake City, Utah. pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. SUMMER EXCURSIONS VIA The following rates apply from Salt Lake City EAST WEST Denver.. $22.50 Portland $37.00 Colorado Springs 22.50 Seattle 44.50 Omaha 40.00 Tacoma 42.80 Kansas City 40.00 San Francisco, via Ogden 35.00 St. Louis 51.20 do. one way via Los Memphis 59.85 Angeles 35.00 Chicago 56.50 do. one way via Portland 53.50 Minneapolis 53.85 Los Angeles, via So. Pacific... 40.00 do. one way via Portland 62.50 do. one way via Salt Correspondingly low rates to many Lake Route... 35.00 other points. Side trip rate Los Angeles to San Diego and return via rail $5.00, and via steamer $4.00, in connection with circuit tour tickets. Tickets on sale daily to November SALE DATES ? May 15, 19, 22, 26, 30, 1915, inclusive. 29; June 2, 5, 9, 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 and LIMIT, three months from date of 30; July 7, 14, 21, 28; August 4, 11, 18, sale, but not to exceed December 31, 25; September 1, 8, 15. 1915. LIMIT ? October 31. NORTH Excursions to northern Utah and STOPOVERS Idaho points, May 22; June 5, 19; July 2, 3, 17, 23, 24, 31; August 14, 28; DIVERSE ROUTES September 11, 25. Proportionately low rates from other O. S. L. stations. See agents. CITY TICKET OFFICE, HOTEL UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.