Clothing for Women. PROPER DRESS FOR NURSES. It may be that some unthoughtful persons who see a nurse in her starched dress, apron, and cap, walking about a sick room, or, perchance, taking a little stroll in the neighborhood for a breath of fresh air, obtain the impression that this regulation costume is simply an affectation. Now, this is not so. There is a very good reason why the nurses should, and usually do, wear the uniform prescribed for them in all modern hospitals, and used by professional nurses in homes as well as in institutions. The reason for this costume is simple — it is purely a matter of hygienic protection to both patient and nurse, as well as to the other inmates of the hospital. The clean-looking blue or white dress is starched, not alone for looks, but also because bacteria find no lodgment in such wearing apparel. In the first place, it is uniform, that is, the pattern of the dress, apron, and cap are pretty much alike in every institution or hospital, with such modifications as individual taste may indicate. This uniformity is dictated by good sense and economy. It is working along the line of least resistance in dress. Second, the colors are white or blue, because both these shades are restful and attractive to the eye of sick people, and because they easily show the least accretion of soil or uncleanliness; and uncleanliness, you know, is both unsanitary and unhealthful. The material for the nurse's dress is cotton or linen, because it washes easily, launders nicely, is cool in the warm temperature of most sick rooms, and it has the added recommendation of being cheap and easily obtained in quantities. Nurses usually change their uniforms three times a week. The form of the dress, apron, and cap, follow graceful lines — the simplest of fashions, the skirt being short, the apron made with a bib, while the sleeve finishes with a cuff that can easily be rolled back, and the apron has a comfortable pocket. The cap is worn, not so much for ornament, — although it is an exceedingly chic addition to the trim little costume, — but its presence is required to prevent the nurses from filling their hair with diseased microbes from patients' breaths and bodies — such, at least, was the original idea in nurses' caps. We suggest an adaptation of this costume for the mother or sister who is nursing her beloved sick in her own home, and thus secure as near an approach to the ideal regulation nurses' custom as she may. Genealogy. The great International Congress on Genealogy, to be held the last week in July in San Francisco, is arousing deep interest in this intermountain region. Especially is this true of the Utah Genealogical program, which is to be held on July 27, during that week. We are pleased to say that the Genealogical Society of Utah has named twenty-five delegates from that Society, headed by President Joseph F. Smith, President Anthon H. Lund, President Chas. W. Penrose, President Francis Marion Lyman, Bishop C. W. Nibley, and twenty other well-known delegates. The Relief Society Extension Work which has excited interest, not only in this country, but in Europe, and which was the subject of a paragraph in a German antiquarian magazine of recent date, will be represented on the program of the Utah Society. We are happy to say that President Emmeline B. Wells, who was one of those who were baptized in the Mississippi River by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when the principle of salvation for the dead was introduced, will be at the head of the Relief Society delegation. So deep is the interest felt by the presiding authorities of the Church and of this Society that each member of the General Board of the Relief Society has been appointed a delegate to this great convention; and most of them will accompany President E. B. Wells and the other delegates from the Relief Society in the special train, which will be provided for this great party. The names of the Stake and Ward Relief Society delegates should be sent in to this office from the various stakes not later than the last week in June, as the Genealogical Society of Utah intend publishing the program, which will be used in the convention, and the delegates' names will be printed in this program. We wish to say to all of our friends, that visitors may enter this party at any time, even within the last three days; but if they wish to become delegates, which means they will have a seat in the convention, and have a vote, their names should be sent as soon as possible, so that they can be published in the program which is to be prepared by the Genealogical Society of Utah. We congratulate all who may take this trip, as it will be historic in every sense of the word. Sample pages of the L. D. S. Family and Individual record can be furnished at 45c a hundred, or $3.35 a thousand, not including postage. Other blanks, 10c a dozen.