Augusta Joyce Crocheron. (A Tribute.) By Emmeline B. Wells. With many sighs and fond memories, I turn back the pages, one by one, of my beloved volumes of the Exponent, and over and over again I read therein the name of the dear departed friend — Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Poems, essays, sketches, minutes, reports, all telling of her versatility as a writer, and at the same time telling something too, of her striking yet tender personality. Like all really interesting women, Mrs. Crocheron had a history. While her life's narrative might seem one long series of sorrows, disappointments and adventure, still she was not always in the shadows, and when the sunshine penetrated the clouds around her, then her soul pealed forth in song and praise. Mrs. Crocheron's great grandmother, on the maternal side, was an Indian princess, the daughter of a Penobscot chief, and her grandfather in the same line was a sea captain. Such progenitors would naturally bequeath as a heritage something of their genius as well as characteristics, and those who best knew Mrs. Crocheron might thus easily account for her love of nature, romance and color, her rather restless disposition, her great desire for attainment and her deep melancholy when dreams could not be realized. She was deeply blessed with an abiding faith which helped her over many stony places in life's path, while her unfailing friendship was a gift to be forever cherished. Mrs. Crocheron was born in Boston in 1844. A year so memorable to the Latter-day Saints, because it marks the martyrdom of their Prophet and Patriarch. When she was scarcely six months old her parents with sixteen other families started on that long but remarkable journey from Boston to California, around Cape Horn, on the good ship Brooklyn. Many times it seemed as though the ship could not withstand the elements, and would 
 surely founder, but the Saints aboard never despaired and their great faith gave confidence and assurance to the captain and the crew. The journey was completed at the end of six months, and the weary pilgrims again set foot on land. These New England Saints were repeating history, having left the shores of Plymouth, where their ancestors had sought and found a refuge for religious liberty, and these landed on the other side of the continent for the same purpose — to worship God as their conscience dictated. California was then Mexican territory and the war with Mexico was at its height. It naturally follows that the settlers saw and encountered some of the dangers and adventures war brings. Besides, there were the hardships and struggles of pioneer life, all testing to the utmost the fortitude, endurance, courage and faith of men and women, and these adventurous souls like other Latter-day Saints were not found wanting. In those days California was not the beautiful garden state that she is today, but rugged, barren and dreary, where the endless vista of the sea and the splashing of its waves but enhanced the loneliness. For twenty years the Joyce family remained in California, detained because of family affairs, but during that time the mother and daughters performed splendid service for the Church, and their beautiful home in San Bernardino was the symbol of hospitality, to "Mormon" missionaries and their friends. Later when the family moved to Utah they were warmly greeted by many friends who remembered their generosity and kindness in the early California days. Mrs. Crocheron's mother possessed a very strong personality and was a woman of some gifts of accomplishment and education. It naturally follows that as far as possible she would bestow the same talents upon her daughter^. Considering the circumstances of pioneer life, the advantages she gave her family were quite remarkable. Mrs. Crocheron's three books which she published under some difficulties will always be valuable and useful to the Latter-day Saint women. This is especially true of the volume entitled, "Representative Women of Deseret," a book of short biographies of some of our most distinguished "Mormon" women, written almost entirely under the direction of the women themselves. This fact renders the book a useful work of reference. "Wild Flowers of Deseret" is a collection of her poems, but having been published long ago does not contain nearly all that she has written nor by any means her best. The third book, "The Children's Book." shows the love of her mother heart and her desire to please the little ones of whom she was especially fond. Mrs. Crocheron had nearly completed a work for which, as a literary attainment, she had great hopes. It was the story of the "Book of Mormon" told in verse, and she had a great desire to