EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janbtti A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman > Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, UtahVol. II. JULY, 1915. No. 7. DESTRUCTION UPON THE WATERS The In a revelation, given to the Prophet Joseph Prophecy. Smith, August 12, 1831, and found in Section 61 in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord pronounces this solemn prophecy: "Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the waters, but in the last days, by the mouth of by servant, John, I cursed the waters; "Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. "And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart. "And, as I, the Lord, in the beginning cursed the land, even so in the last days have I blessed it, in its time, for the use of my saints, that they may partake the fatness thereof. "And now I give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that you shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in her snares; EDITORIAL. 337 "I, the Lord have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decrees." How incomprehensible that forecast was to the handful of Saints who listened to the Prophet's inspired voice at that little meeting on the banks of the Missouri. How impossible of fulfilment it appeared to the scoffer and the atheist. How far-off and visionary it seemed, then, and for years after, to many ? nay, to most, who read this remarkable revelation. And yet, we live today under conditions that make its absolute fulfilment seem natural and simple. Only the The dread picture cast before the mind in these Upright passages is relieved by the promise that the up may reach right in heart shall be able to reach the land of the Land of Zion. All this land of ours, this beautiful America, is Zion. And the safety of ships which carry "Mormon" missionaries has passed into a familiar proverb, in sea-faring circles. That there have been one or two losses and deaths of our saints upon the waters can be traced in every instance to the failure of those who were lost to follow counsel. These exceptions only make the rule the stronger. The Prophet Vindicated Once more the scoffing world is met by the challenge of events, which prove beyond the possibility of a doubt that the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke by the gift and power of God. The Lord ? after warning and forewarning* the world ? is now permitting the angels of fulfilment to sweep over the waters with the besom of destruction the engines thereof conceived and shaped by men, and used under the inspiration of hate and war. Be ye not Those who stand in holy places shall not be moved. moved. For the end is not yet. There is work for us to do, sisters, friends. Work ? for the living, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, to minister to the broken-hearted. Work for the dead ? to redeem our kindred who have been waiting in their prison houses; to study the scriptures, to enlarge our understandings, to prepare ourselves for the end here, and for the glorious hereafter. Let us be up and doing. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson ITT ? Summer Hygiene Lesson. CARE of children. Never in the history of the world has so much attention been given to the care and training of children as at the present time, and never were human efforts better bestowed. Marked increase in the length of life and better