Current Topics. James H. Anderson. "Clean-up day" in Utah has had a really remarkable effect in most of the cities, by giving them a tidier appearance. Whatever may be the next great development of the European war, the dismemberment of Turkey now seems to be a settled fact. Eleven thousand women have been enrolled on the police force in the larger cities of Italy, to keep peace at home while the men make war abroad. Tranquility in the Far East has been assured through China yielding to the demands of Japan. The latter has the most and the biggest guns and the best trained soldiery. The University of Utah dispute seems to have settled down to the point where the law which requires the board of regents to control the institution is being given real effect. The Mexican people continue to starve or butcher each other. After two years, the difficulties in our sister republic seem to be no nearer an amicable settlement. California has been known as "the beet sugar State," but Utah is running her a close second. Two new sugar factories will be built in Utah this year, one in Salt Lake and another in Davis county, while California loses at least one such factory. One class of leading citizens declares that the United States navy is equal to all prospective emergencies, while another class insists that the contrary is the fact; but neither has such confidence in our naval strength as to seek an actual demonstration of which is right. Dr. Bernhard Dernberg, former German colonial secretary, and erstwhile unofficial spokesman for Germany in the United States, has found it advisable to depart from America, because of his objectionable utterances on international affairs. Even a parrot can get into trouble by talking too much. Now Portugal has had a touch of war, albeit this was of an internal character. A few of the smaller nations of Europe only CURRENT TOPICS. 323 are not involved in war, yet even these are "holding the clothes" of the combatants by caring for the rights of belligerents in the warring nations, and suffering themselves actual injury by the conflict. At the Mohonk conference on international arbitration, President Hibben of Princeton University startled the ultra-peace advocates by demanding an armed preparation "against war," if not "for war." At this point the conference failed to apply its own theory of arbitration to get its differing elements to an amicable agreement. Ex-President Taft sounds a word of warning to the American people in calling attention to the extreme attitude assumed by some leaders of the American Federation of Labor. The ex-president says those leaders seek to make of themselves a privileged class, and often exercise a power that has become oppressive and detrimental to the public weal and good of society. Three great volcanoes were in active eruption in the United States during the month of May — Lassen Peak in California and Iliamna and an unidentified mountain in Alaska. In the case of Lassen Peak, ashes were carried a distance of over 200 miles. It is a comfort to know that neither of these disturbers of earth and air are within easy reach of thickly populated districts. While the work is going on quietly, a notably beneficial advancement in the care of the sick and suffering among people in this part of the world is being made by the training of so many intelligent women as Relief Society nurses, ever ready to hear the call of the distressed and to give needed relief both by deed and faith. America's Liberty Bell is to be in Salt Lake City on July 11, en route to the exposition at San Francisco. Of the many thousands who will flock to view the historic relic, not a few will be impressed with the virtue in a thought expressed by the poet, that while the "old bell now is silent, and hushed its iron tongue, the music it awakened still lives, forever young." A commission in Salt Lake county, Utah, has discovered that fully eighty per cent of the school children there have defective teeth. Here is a good opportunity for dental science to relieve a world of suffering, not only in toothache among the tots, but in stomach troubles which result from the defective condition complained of. Meanwhile, "candy intoxication" will give continuous 
 trouble. When Col. James R. Mann, Republican leader in the Congressional House of Representatives, and in a position necessarily opposed to any party measure of the present national administration, was invited to offer a criticism of President Wilson's neutrality policy in the present European crisis, he silenced the would-be agitators by the laconic reply that there were "too many nations at war already." This is the view of the most capable American statesmen, regardless of party affiliations. In the libel suit between two of New York's great men, Theodore Roosevelt and William H. Barnes, the former says trial by jury is a success, because the verdict was in his favor; while his opponent is not so certain about it. Be that as it may, even the verdict of "twelve men good and true" in New York does not settle the question in the minds of the friends of the contestants; these differ as widely as before. Lord Kitchener is severely criticized by some of the newspapers in England, for his conduct of the British campaign in the present war. There is nothing new in editors assuming to know more about militant matters — with their tongues, or pencils — than do trained soldiers. Neither Lincoln nor Grant were strangers to this fact; and in Kitchener's own experience he has been most severely criticized when on the verge of his greatest success. William Marconi, the inventor, says he has discovered a method by which persons can look through a solid wall and observe what is going on on the other side, but he will not give it out for fear of the evil purposes to which the method may be put. The use of such a discovery might be discomforting to a great many people, but the Good Book says there "is nothing secret that shall not be made known," and if Marconi does not tell, then someone else will, since human curiosity and energy do not permit such a discovery to remain unexploited. A notable event of the past month in the European war was the sinking of the great ocean liner Lusitania by a German submarine, off the coast of Ireland, the lives of over eleven hundred non-combatants — men, women and children — being lost. Nearly one hundred Americans met death by the sinking of the ship, and the United States government made a vigorous protest to Germany against such methods in warfare. Little Holland, too, almost under the German heel, made emphatic objection to this act by the Teutons, there being a number of citizens of that nation among those who were lost. The world waits breathlessly for the political outcome of this tragic incident.