[Column 1]
but never for speculation, and it is never
sold for money except when it is necess-
ary to dispose of old wheat and purchase
new. Many even of the small wards own
granaries that are filled with good wheat.
The women who serve in the Relief So-
ciety devote freely time and talents to the
amelioration of mankind, without expec-
tation of reward, save the reward of a
clear “conscience void of offence toward
God and all men.” It is a labor of love,
the consecration of all that they have and
are on the altar of their faith, to promote
good in the world, to make life happy for
their own, to build up genuine homes,
where peace and unity abide.
	Meantime, we believe in cultivating all
the graces of mind and body and in prom-
oting the highest in art, literature and
science, that the future of the generations
now living, and of those which are to
come, may be nearer perfection in attain-
ment than that of any race that has ever
inhabited this earth. That the earth it-
self may be cultivated, its waste places
made habitable and beautiful by the hands
of industry and the blessing of the Lord,
that the Western continent from North
to South and from East to West, and the
whole of this goodly land of America, may
be as free and desireable to dwell in as our
own glorious United States.
	In this good work women as well as
men, have been and are engaged and
none more so than our honored and be-
loved President of this Society, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, who has from her
early life been a woman of thrift and
enterprise, as well as economy. She is
therefore eminently qualified to stand at
the head and direct the efforts of these
hosts of workers, because she has passed
through the varied experiences of a long
and useful, as well as successful life. She
is in appearance a queenly woman, though
now nearing her 84th year, with all her
faculties in excellent preservation, and
her cheerful countenance and dignity of
manner betoken the innocence and purity
of the soul within.	
	We also wish to mention with tender-
ness in this report, the great loss to our
Society in the demise of one of our most
honored and revered sisters, the Treas-
urer of the General Society for 21 years,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, well known for-
merly to many of the leading women of
the Council, having been a delegate from
our Society in the Congress of Represent-
ative Women at the Columbian Expo-
sition in Chicago in 1893, and also par-
ticipating in its social entertainments.
Her address in the Art Palace attracted
much attention, when she related the
story of crossing the plains in 1847, and
the many peculiar circumstances of her
pioneer journeyings and experience.
	We desire to unite with the National
Council of Women in any Memorial Trib-
ute they may make to the memory of our
dearly beloved leader and General, Miss
Susan B. Anthony; and to express our
heartfelt love and veneration for her grand
and noble efforts for women everywhere

