UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 38th Relief Society Con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion. held at
Vernal, Feb. 21, 1906, at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises President Col-
ton made opening remarks. She felt that


with a little energy there could be a little
better attendance; she reported the stake
with the exception of Jensen.
	Sister Annie K. Bartlett reported Jen-
sen Relief Society; both president and 
her counselors reported the stake in good
condition.
	After the stake reports an essay was
given from Naples Society by Adell Hunt-
ing; select music on the organ by Abbie
Henry from Vernal Relief Society.
	Reports from the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches as follows: Mountain Dell,
Prest. Mary J. Searle; Jensen, Prest.
America Orser; Naples, Prest. Annie Cas-
per, followed by Nancy A. Colton (one of
the stake board) upon knowledge and
courage, practically temperance. Sister
Mary O’Neill made a great many com-
ments on the lecture.
	Sister Sarah Pope, former stake presi-
dent of the organization, said while look-
ing over the congregation she felt to
thank the Lord, for, said she, all looked as
though they had plenty to eat and wear;
spoke of the early settlers in the state
and the hardships they had to pass
through, of the Relief Society and its
organization; she also spoke upon the
Word of Wisdom and its benefits.
	Counselor Agnes Bennion spoke of the
sisters trying to find employment for their
children and upon education and the
books we should read; she read an article
entitled “Questions of Amusements.”
	Bro. Alonzo Hawes said that he could
testify that the Spirit of God was here; he
spoke of the good counsel that might be
given to the boys and girls; spoke of the
good work the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety were doing.
	Sister Phebe Hislop, president of Mae-
ser Society, reported that society in good
condition; she also related some of the
effects of card playing; she had never had
a card in her house nor seen any in her
father’s house.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session we continued our
services by the choir singing then prayer
and singing, minutes, etc. General and
local officers were sustained, statistical
report read and accepted.
	Reports from the different wards. Pres-
ident Hannah Odekirk, Vernal; Prest.
Mary J. Hardy, Glines; each in good con-
dition. 
	Sister Althura Collett called unexpect-
edly to speak, but her motto was to re-
spond to the call from those placed
over her; spoke of prayer and home mis-
sionaries.
		(To be continued.)


