[Column 2]
of caring for the sick and needy, the aged
and infirm is quite as necessary as in larger
places, and in many instances the needs
are greater because the facilities are not
at hand, or the skilled help to be obtained.
	We can truthfully say great good to
many thousands has been done by our
women through this organization, and we
are fully prepared to verify this assertion.
The classes of nurses that graduate each
year, is one of the most efficient ways of
helpfulness; and we are gratified with the
results of our Relief Society nurse classes
as a whole. Imagine what relief these
nurses carry into the homes where their
services are required, the very expression
and appearance of a trained nurse, who
loves her work, brings into a household
an atmosphere of repose and is a healing
balm to the sufferer. I think it has al-
ready been explained in a former report,
that the nurses trained under the auspices
of the Relief Society give a certain por-
tion of time to charity nursing; and this
gives to them an experience such as no
trained nurse who only attends where
families are able to pay can ever get, and
is more valuable as a life lesson, than
dollars and cents. These eharity nurses
going as they do into the homes of the
meek and lowly are, as it were, angels of
mercy in many instances, diffusing sun-
shine and radiance where darkness and
gloom had prevailed. Nursing is indeed
an elevating profession.
	Some years ago we introduced as a part
of our educational course what we term
mothers’ work into our Society; in a cer-
tain sense the training of young women
for motherhood had always been encour-
aged and much timely advice and instruc-
tion given in a general way, but we have
adopted of late years a more regular
method by having outlines prepared and
lectures in each ward Society on such sub-
jects as relate direct to the preparations
for motherhood and the rearing of chil-
dren. The good results have been appar-
ent in awakening dormant ideas and fac-
ulties, and inducing women who had latent
talent to use it for their own development
and to be helpful to others, their associ-
ates, their neighbors and friends, and for
the public good.
	The Relief Society has also much prac-
tical work to do, and calls into exercise
the executive ability of its members in 
accumulating means, and in handling, and
husbanding it resources. During this past
year many more buildings have been
erected in various wards and settlements
for Society purposes, and considerable
grain has been stored, and more granaries
have been built. This enterprise of stor-
ing grain is peculiar to the women of this
Society. Nowhere else in the world have
we ever heard of the women of any peo-
ple, or any Society, laying up grain against
a time of need, except in our organiza-
tions.
	It has been an interesting thing and a
labor that required some skill to manage.
There have been some losses, but in the
main the work has been successful. The
Jubilee year of the Church, of which the
Relief Society sisters are members, don-
ated two-thirds of the grain that had been
stored for the three years since the work
had been inaugurated for seed to the far-
mers, this was their offering to the poor,
and in some rare instances since in con-
sequence of losses in the wheat crop it
has been loaned out to good advantage,


