[Column 2]
last time we met rises vividly before us. Did we
part in kindness? Did we lovingly say “good
bye?”
	There is no regret when we think of Gladys and
her beautiful life. Gladys, who sleeps far away
from her childhood home.
	Gladys was the second child of Joseph and
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and was born in Salt
Lake City, March 13, 1865, and died February 26,
1906, in Juarez, Mexico.
	Her loving sister Evelyn ministered by her bed
side, and soothed her in her hours of pain. Her
heart yearned over her little ones, and wistfully
her eyes rested upon them, until they were closed
by the chill of death. For them she desired and
strove to live. Often she spoke of the fragile, little
mother far away and the precious ones whom she
would see no more in life.
	Gladys was of a bright, cheerful disposition, a
companion to and a lover of her mother. Kind
and true and even as a child. she was never known
to shirk a duty. She was affable and loving to a 
fault, always the same, light-hearted and happy.
These characteristics endeared her to family and
friends.
	The ties of motherhood unfolded her beautiful
nature, like the rose that expands beneath the
sun’s warm rays.
	A loving, conscientious wife, a tender mother, a
firm friend. this and more can be said of her
	To her faith her heart was loyal and true; to la-
bor for it, her delight.
	She held several positions of trust, even in her
girlhood days, in the organizations of the Twen-
tieth Ward, her home ward, where she is lovingly
remembered.
	She was of a literary turn of mind, and did
some fine work while with us in the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club. It is with regret that we part
with such an active, brilliant member.
	Her funeral, which occurred February 27, was
an occasion of sadness. Though the leading
brethren said so many beautiful things of her,
though all were loth to part with one so estimable,
faithful and diligent, and the home made desolate
because of her absence was spoken of, yet all 
hearts turned to the mother, whose health would
not permit that she should learn of her death until
long after she was laid in the tomb
	Amid silent tears of sorrow the following poem,
composed by that mother, to comfort some other
heart in distress, was read from the stand, then
sung by request:

	Resting now from care and sorrow,
		Resting from fatigue and pain;
	Faithfully she fought life’s battle,
		Death to such is endless gain.
	Gad hath gathered home her spirit,
		God hath taken what He gave;
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	All her warfare is accomplished,
		Bid her now a fond adieu;
	Brief the parting, glad the meeting
		That shall nearest ties renew.
	True and tender, self denying,
		One of Truths disciples brave—
	Let her sleep, she needs to slumber,
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	Shall we mourn for one who’s left us?
		Yes, our tears we needs must blend;
	Love’s own off’ring this we owe thee.
		Faithful mother, faithful friend.
	While we look for consolation
		Unto Him, “the strong to save,”
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	It was so appropriate, and seemed like her
mother’s voice blending with the words that had
been uttered.
	Gladys is not dead, but liveth unto life eternal.
With one of old we can exclaim “Surely good-
ness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: I will dwell in the house of the Lord for-
ever.”				LYDIA D. ALDER.


