[Column 1]
	EXECUTIVE SESSION, NATIONAL
		COUNCIL OF WOMEN,
			TOLEDO, OHIO.
SECRETARY’S REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY, PRESENTED
BY REBECCA E. LITTLE, DELEGATE.
Madame President, Officers and Members
	of the National Council of Women
	of the United States.
	DEAR FRIENDS: A report from the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society was for-
warded in February of 1905 to the Trien-
nial at Washington, D. C. and the time
seems so short since then that there ap-
pears little to tell of things accomplished.
We can assure you, however, of the deep
interest we feel in the Council work, and
of our sympathy with individual workers
who are striving for the good of all, and
for the advancement of truth and right-
eousness.
	We know there is a vast army of wo-
men who are engaged in various depart-
ments of earnest endeavor to make better
the lives of those whose lines have not
been cast in pleasant places; and to these
grand women, we would extend the hand
of fellowship and wish them God speed
in every noble enterprise undertaken for
humanity.
	In looking back over the past year, al-
though we have kept up regular duties,
perhaps we ought not to regret that great
things we had desired have not been
brought about; for it is the little beautiful
acts of kindness, mercy and benevolence
that are after all, most helpful and uplift-
ing to the human soul, and in these small
things that do not count much upon paper,
our women do an infinite amount of good.
They minister in loving tenderness to the
sick and aged, who have not near and
dear ones by them, and when death comes
to the relief of suffering humanity, it is
the privilege of many to close the eyes
that can no longer see and clothe the body
in raiment suitable for burial; these are
the blessed opportunities of members of
our Society. No one can perform these
sacred duties without realizing the spirit
of that true charity spoken of by Paul the
Apostle, the “charity that never faileth,”
that blesses the giver ten fold in return.
Such labors refine and discipline the char-
acter and life of those who perform these 
ministrations in the spirit of true benevo-
lence.
	The ladies of the Council are many of
them somewhat acquainted with our
methods of work. We aim for the highest
and best in our undertakings, though we
often fall short of the standard we have
in mind.
	From our headquarters we send out to
the various organizations under the super-
vision of our General Board, not only let-
ters of instruction from our President, but
mlssionary sisters in pairs, to visit Con-
ferences in the several localities as care-
fully arranged beforehand. These sisters
not only speak publicly upon matters par-
taining to our work, but give advice to
those at a distance and assist in organiz-
ing new branches or in filling vacancies.
Often these trips are made where there
are no railroads and through mountainous
countries. This is really an important
part of our work, and very helpful to those
in remote places. For in these far off
districts away from busy towns, the work

