		GROWING YOUNG.

	To, grow young, may be a paradoxical
expression, but it may be a possibility for
all that—not in years, of course, but in
manner and feeling. I know, and you
readers of the EXPONENT know, two beau-
tiful examples of this paradox; perhaps
we know more, but standing boldly before
the women of Zion today, in this respect,
are our two beloved leaders in Woman’s
work, “Aunt Bathsheba” and “Aunt Em.”
Their secret I don’t know, unless it has
always been their wonderful work, al-
ways thinking and planning for the ad-
vancement and care of others, uncom-
plainingly and unselfishly, giving their
time and talent to the betterment and 
building up of womankind, and yet withal
so sweet and womanly, so tender and so
true. 
	We had a party this lovely month of
May, when all nature breathed loveliness
and perfume. when all the hills were
crowned with verdure and bright flowers,
and the orchard trees put on their loveli-
est apparel of pink and white. What
time more fitting for a party? What day
more fair than dear Aunt Bathsheba’s
birthday? and she the fairest of all. Why
not forget sometimes that we are growing
old? In fact at such a time it would be
hard to believe we were. At any rate,
on this day time stood still, and those
who looked and participated in this May-
Day party all were young again, and the
youngest and gayest of us all was she in
whose honor we met, though her years
might number eighty-four. Dressed in
shimmering silk of white, with soft rare
lace, we called her that day Queen, and
we brought her flowers in wreaths and
garlands—beautiful lilies of the valley
and fragrant apple blossoms, and we
crowned her, as in the long ago as chil-
dren we used to play and choose among
our number, some fair, beautiful compan-
ion and make her “Queen of the May.”
We brought her gifts, sang her songs,
told her our love, and read to her heart
poems. And why? “Just because we
loved her so.”
	Oh, how blessed to come so near the
“end of the way” in such serenity of soul
assured of our heart of a perfect well
spent life! Blessed, a thousand times
blessed is she, our beloved leader—our
dear Aunt Bathsheba. 
	Modern grandmothers. When I was a
little girl I used to feel as though a great
injustice had been done me, because I
never had a grandma; and now, as the
years have passed, I don’t know but
what I still think the same; for surely,
the very dearest, sweetest things in all
this world are the grandmothers. Long
years ago we used to picture the grand-
ma like a set piece of furniture in the 
house, sitting ever in the chimney corner,
in an old-fashioned rocking chair, dressed
in a black frock and a large apron, a small,
three-cornered shawl on her shoulders and
a cap on her head, her hands always busy
with flashing knitting needles or darning
the family stockings; at evening telling
the children stories of her own childhood,
or of how children were taught to behave
in her young days; of the dear, quaint
manners of the long ago, with the stately
minuet and the powdered wigs. and the
buckled shoes. Doesn’t it seem strange
that dames of that day should ever settle

