		ELIZABETH BROOK FOX.
	Died at Franklin, Oneida County, Idaho, Mon-
day, April 9, 1906, of general debility and heart
failure, Sister Elizabeth Fox. Sister Fox was
baptized at Leeds in 1851, and finally with a deter-
mination to remain true to the testimony which she
had received, she sanctioned home and friends for
the gospel’s sake and came to this country, arriv-
ing in Salt Lake in September, 1861, Elder Milo
Andrus beign president of the company.
	After remaining at the home of Elder Phineas
Young for two weeks she went to Lehi, where she
married Charles E. Fox in February, 1862.
	In 1863 Brother and Sister Fox came to Frank-
lin. Both were members of the Franklin Ward
choir for a number of years.
	Sister Fox acted as a teacher in the Franklin
Relief Society for several years, afterwards be-
coming its president, which positon she filled for
eight years. On April 19, 1881, she was appoint-
ed president of the Relief Society of the Oneida
Stake, presiding with marked success for more
than sixteen years Her genial disposition won
for her the love of all with whom she was associ-
ated, which amounted almost to devotion.
	Besides a son and daughter, Mr. Joseph B.
Scarborough, of Franklin, and Mrs Annie Hatch,
wife of Bishop L. L. Hatch, of Franklin, Sister
Fox is survived by twenty grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas the Eternal Father, in His infinite wis-
dom has called our beloved sister, Elizabeth Fox,
from our midst; and
	Whereas Sister Fox has been closely connected
with the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake for a
number of years, and having been a teacher in the
Franklin Ward for seven years, also president of
that organization for about eight years, and later
Stake president for more than sixteen years.
	We, the stake officers, representing all the
branches of the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake;
desire to express our great appreciation of her in-
tegrity, and wish to extend our deepest sympathy
to the members of her family in their sad bereave-
ment.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sympathy to her son and daughter and their fami-
lies; be it further
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
the records of the Relief Society of this Stake, and
that a copy be presented to the bereaved family
and also to the Deseret News and WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT for p[-]blication.
					LOUISA B BENSON,
									President.
					HANNAH B. MICKLESON,
					LUCY B. PARKINSON,
									Counselors.
					PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL,
									Secrearty.


