Garden of Eden, and was commanded to
“till and take care of it—to be happy and
enjoy himself”—a love of home and coun-
try has burned more or less brightly in
the hearts of all God’s children, and will
continue to do so until we all “come into
our own.
	History gives us many noble examples
of patriotic men and women, whose deeds
of valor and heroic sacrifice we point to
with pride.
	’Tis a man’s prerogative to fight the bat-
tles of his country. ’Tis a woman’s to
remain at home; perchance to weep but
nevertheless valiantly taking upon her-
self the double responsibility of father
and mother; but because her labor is per-
formed, perforce, far from the scene of
the bloody conflict, is she less patriotic
than he who meets the foe face to face?
No! a thousand times no!
	While her husband, father or brother
is engaged in the struggle for supremacy,
actively pushing by his own endeavors the
outcome to a successful finish,—be it in
the halls of Congress where laws are
made, whereby hang the destiny of na-
tions, or on the field of battle—his heart
can but feebly realize the agonizing sus-
pense of hope deferred, and the uncer-
tainty of meagre detail in time of action,
which is the common lot of the waiting
ones at home.
	Woman’s patriotism is best shown by
her faith, and the outcome of the results
she helped to obtain when she sends her
loved ones from her saying:

	Fight for your country!
		Die if it need be;
	Stand true to your colors
		And God will defend thee!

	If she is gifted with her pen she will
incite to fresh deeds of courage, and build
up the flagging hopes of her countrymen.
	It is a much discussed question, “which
is mighter the pen or the sword,” and the
preponderance of opinion, I think, is in
favor of the former.
	Every nation boasts of its patriots, and
emblazoned upon the pages of its history
there stand the sentiments and expres-
sions of patriotic fervor which make for
its people an ensign from which future
generations may obtain inspiration for
fresh deeds of glory.
	What woman has read the history of
Madame Roland without a feeling of gen-
uine admiration for her patriotism, and the
courage she displayed when she mount-
ed the scaffold for her execution, exclaim-
ing: “Oh liberty, how many crimes are
committed in thy name!”
	Our own country has produced exam-
ples of courage and perseverance, among
women equal to and not exceled by any
other.
	’Tis true that since we became an inde-
pendent nation and liberty and freedom
of the press have been open to all, none
have been required to sacrifice their lives
to establish principles which are theirs by
right of divine inheritance. But, should

[Column 3]
occasion require, we have many Madame
Rolands among our countrywomen.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there is a
strong feeling of patriotism—a love of
country—which animates every breast,
and while we are made up as a people
from almost every nation under heaven,
yet we all unite in singing:

		“My country ’tis of thee
		Sweet land of Liberty
			Of thee I sing.”

	The latter-day Saints when considering
the limitations of their preconceived no-
tions of country, native land, home of
birth, etc., find, with the advent of the
Gospel into their hearts, a more compre-
hensive knowledge of what patriotism
really is, than is generally acceded among
other peoples; namely, that our county
is Zion—“Zion the pure in heart,”—
wherever its boundaries may extend. It
will in time cover the whole earth and ex-
tend into the sanctuaries of heaven; then
we can truly say:

		God is my Father.
			“My country, the world.
		Do good, my religion”—
			My banner’s unfurled.

	Not all patriots, yet, comprehend this
large view of country; but those under-
standing the Gospel of Jesus Christ which
teaches the Fatherhood of God, and the
Brotherhood of man, will be able to do
so. The gifted writers and poets of our
people have made this principle a theme
of many of their most inspired songs.
Pre-eminent among these stands the name
of Sister Eliza R. Snow.
	One cannot read her poem entitled
“Nationality” without being inspired by
strong patriotic fervor coupled with a 
highly developed spiritual sense which
place her at once as one of the most
loyal, faithful and obedient subjects of
the City of Zion, in the Kingdom of
Heaven.
	I will close this article by quoting a few
excerpts from the above mentioned poem:

“One might as well my thoughts exterminate—
My place in pedigree annihilate—
Or the warm pulse of life eradicate—
As to efface or to remove from me
The sentiment of nationality.
It of my nature constitutes a part—
Unites with all the life blood of my heart;
And if no trait or portion of my spirit
’Tis something I eternally inherit.
Not all the charms surrounding scenes impart
Can chase the high-toned feelings from my heart,
For oft—full oft so tenderly they yearn
A kindly impulse prompts a fond return
Unto the land of my nativity—
My native home—my native scenery.
But where—O where the land so choice, so dear?
Which is the nation I so much revere?

I say with Brother Eddington, I am not
Iialian, Hindoo, English, German, Scot.
Neither American, Swiss, Welsh, or Dane,
Nor yet an Islander from ocean’s main.
Nor Spanish, French, Norwegian, nor Swede.
I claim no country, nation, kingdom, creed
Excepting Zion; that I proudly name,
Home of all homes that home I fondly claim.
Were I to boast of nationality.
I’d look beyond this frail mortality.

The Holy Spirit every Saint receives


Is one sense added to what nature gives.
And forms a powerful telescope whereby
We look beyond the stretch of mortal eye
Its keen perception takes a view
Of origin and destination too.
Through this superior spirit sense we learn
What our inferior sense can ne’er discern,
That we’re not natives of this of this fallen earth.
We lived before—we had an earlier birth.
A clime and habitation highly pure
Beyond what these gross senses can endure.
Our hearts beat upwards and our feelings move
In homeward currents up to those we love,
Where uncorrupted nature’s beauties glow
Where life’s pure streams from endless foun-
	tains flow;
And there the sixth—the spirit sense will lead
If to its dictates we give earnest heed;
And its refining process will prepare
Us for a full and free reception there.
And there we’ll talk of nationality
With the celestials of eternity.
