[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF A HEROINE.
	Away in the quaint little village of Kil-
berry Argyleshire, among the flowery
glens and nooks of bonnie Scotland, on
March 12, 1824, Jane McKinnon Baxter
first beheld the light of day. Her life was
spent in a quiet and uneventful way as
most Scottish lassie’s are. The religious
training she received was the stern, iron
clad doctrines of the parish church and
the old family Bible at home. When
about twenty years of age she found her
way to the City of Greenock, a manu-
facturing center, here she heard for the
first time a true Gospel sermon. Some-
thing that she had been groping for, a
something that sounded in her eager, list-
ening ears like the tinkling bells and
roused her slumbering thoughts to action.
She knew the voice of the true shepherd
and soon became a member of the fold.
Here she met the man of her choice,
Archibald McPhail, and to him she was
united in marriage in the year 1840.
	In 1856 they took a fond farewell of
friends, home and country and accom-
panied by their little daughter Jane, four
years old, they boarded one of those slow
sailing vessels which took them safely
across the briny deep after a long and
tedious sail of nine weeks.
	But the arduous and faith trying jour-
ney lay in sullen grandeur before this un-
suspecting band of Saints, who had left
the comforts of a civilized country to un-
dertake the unparalleled task, with the first
handcart company across the trackless
desert, frequented only by the savage red-
skins. the home of the wild deer and the
roaming buffalo. While struggling through
the many hardships, privations, want, hun-
ger and sickness that visited this heroic
band of pilgrims, her husband took ser-
iously ill, becoming exhausted and unfit
for the unequal task before him. With
that wifely devotion which only our pion-
eer mothers knew, she meekly took her
place by the couch of her dying husband,
comforting him by day, and her vigilant
watch was kept up at night by the faint
glimmer of a tallow candle.
	As she waited in calm sadness envel-
oped in the silence of the night, she im-
plored the God whom she conscientously
served, to help her endure the trying or-
deal, also that the candle would continue
to burn, as it was all she had, until she
witnessed her bosom friend and loved one
close his eyes in death. In that awful
hour of supreme agony her confiding faith

