[Column 2]
in Him to lend a listening ear, doubted
not, and the humble petition as it floated
on the wings of the somber night from
the lips of one of the daughters of the
lonely wilderness met the approval of
Him who seeth in secret. And as the
king of terrors struggled with his victim
for victory while the fast ebbing life flick-
ered in the balance, the scanty light also
battled to fill its mission until the heart-
broken scene was closed, Though thrown
into the depth of affliction her integrity
in the work she had espoused never grew
less, never faltered, and her confidence in
God remained unshaken as the mystic
mountains that surrounded her.
	No costly shroud or marble casket en-
cased that noble body as it lay in state
waiting for the dawn of morn to consign
it to mother earth. The many lives that
were laid on the altar of sacrifice for the
sake of truth, during that bitter exodus
with the countless perils and foreboding is
nobler by far than the hero on the field
of battle, fighting and falling for the glory
of his country. 
	You nor I witnessed the falling tears of
our heroine, as she whispered “All is
well,” and took a last look as she turned
away from the lonely mound, resuming
the tedious journey with her little daugh-
ter gazing wistfully in childish wonder-
ment at the tear-bedimmed face of her
mother. In December of the same year
they reached their long looked for destin-
ation, the haven of the refugee.
	The emigrant of today. whirling along
reclining on cushions of velvet, idly
dreaming in luxurious ease, cannot sense
the emotions of our pioneer fathers and
mothers when their weary, bleeding feet
rested on the spot where the modern
Moses was inspired to say, “Enough; this
is the place.”
	Although tattered and torn, with faces
begrimed from long exposure, with thank-
ful hearts they knelt on the grey sage-
brush to return thanks to Him who per-
mitted them to reach the gathering place
of the Saints.
	As the old adage goes, “A friend in
need is a friend indeed,” so this was the
case with our worthy subject. Here she
formed the acquaintance of Robert Bax-
ter, whom she subsequently married and
by whom she had two children, a boy and
a girl, the girl dying when quite young.
Her son, John M. Baxter, is now presi-
dent of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.
	A little over 33 years ago, when the
Bear Lake Stake was settled, our heroine
was among the number who came to sub-
due the elements and battle with frontier
life.
	When the Randolph Relief Society was
organized she was chosen as first coun-
selor to Sarah M. Tyson, which position
she held for twenty-nine years.
	At or about this time the crowning
epoch of her life dawned upon her, and a
new field of labor presented itself.
	Apostle Wilford Woodruff, being moved
upon by inspiration, called and set her
apart to fill the responsible position of
midwife for the community.
	As the science of obstetrics was entire-
ly unknown to her, she was loth to accept
the mission, but her objections faded like
the snowflakes in the river, when the
hands of the beloved Apostle were placed
upon her head, and he pronounced one of
the most wonderful blessings through di-

[Column 3]
vine inspiration that human lips could
utter, to her this blessing was priceless;
in it lay joy and unlimited satisfaction.
From the counsels of the Apostle she
never departed, but cherished them far
beyond all the contributions that science
could produce.
	Hers was no blind obedience, but a
humble acknowledgement of the living
priesthood that was reflected in all her
actions.
	In this blessing was couched the prom-
ise that if she remained firm and faithful
to this calling she would never lose a
case. Those words of inspiration never
lost their effect, her efforts were crowned
with marvelous success. During the
long period of some thirty odd years’
practice she never lost a case.
	In the evening of her well-spent life it
was pleasant to spend an hour with
Grandma, as she took you back through
the hallway of Father Time and related
some of her wonderful experiences.
	When that humble and well-beloved
Apostle, Owen Woodruff, paid his last
visit to our settlement she desired a bless-
ing at his hand, as she felt the ravages of
time fast creeping in upon her, the
thought of lingering and suffering or be-
coming a charge seemed to mar the noble
independent spirit that characterized her
whole life seemed to manifest itself. Her
request was granted and his words verily
came to pass, as did the prophecy of his
venerable father so many years before,
she passed peacefully away in the pres-
ence of her devoted son and daughter.
	She, like many others, has left foot-
prints on the sands of time for you and
me to emulate, for she has gone before to
receive a well earned reward.
