[Column 1]
a dear friend or neighbor, a companion or
associate.
	In the passing away of Sister Elizabeth
J. Stevenson, the sisters in the Salt Lake
Temple, where she was called among the
first to labor, and in the General Relief
Society, realize they have lost one of
their best workers and a true friend.
	She was always willing to do double
duty when it was at all possible; no task
too hard, no burden too heavy, a friend
in need to those in want of assistance,
either temporal or spiritual. A comforter
to those who were cast down or op-
pressed, such a one must be greatly
missed by those who had received from
her kindly and loving ministrations.
“And friends, dear friends, when it shall be,
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, ‘Not a tear must o’er her fall!
He giveth His beloved sleep,’”
	It is the opinion of the writer that
could our beloved sister and friend, who
has left us, speak to us now, she would
say, “Do not weep for me but take up
the task I have laid down and be valiant
for the truth of the Gospel of our Lord
and Savior.”
	In some respects the demise of Sister
Stevenson was sadder than when one dies
at home. Going from her home on Mon-
day, April 18, to attend a conference at
Emery, Emery Co., for the Relief Society
(a work she greatly loved) she was taken
sick upon the journey; her illness was so
serious from the first that her traveling
companion, Sister Hattie B. Harker,
telephoned to the family on Saturday
night, and her daughter, Sister Wilcox,
started on the Sunday morning train to go
to her mother’s assistance; hearing by
telephone message on reaching Price (the
end of the railroad) that her mother was
worse, she sent to Salt Lake for her hus-
band, Dr. C. F. Wilcox, to come as soon
as possible. The doctor complied with
his wife’s request, and everything was
done for the sick woman that skill and
remedies could effect. Sister Stevenson
had great faith herself, and she was ad-
ministered to by the brethren of the
priesthood many times, but from the first
it seemed that pneumonia had fastened
upon her vital parts, and prayers and faith
although comforting and soothing, could
not avail, and she breathed her last in
mortality on the morning of Wednesday,
April 25, 1906, her daughter, Sister Wil-
cox, and son-in-law were by the bedside
and Sister Harker, who had been her as-
sociate in visiting Emery Stake, with
others of the sisters, were present to
render any assistance possible. Her last
words were, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	As soon as possible after the sad event
Elder Ezra Stevenson (Sister Stevenson’s
son in this city) was apprised of the sad
occurrence, and arrangements were made
to bring the body home. From Emery to
Price, sixty miles by team, required time,
and the journey under the circumstances
was mournful indeed. Sister Wilcox was
overwhelmed with grief, also Sister
Harker, who felt for her companion the
most intense sympathy in her great sor-
row.
	The mourners reached Salt Lake at
midnight, Thursday, April 26, and were
met at the depot by members of the fam-

