AT REST.

	DIED on Sunday morning April 23, 1882 at
his home in the Museum building in this city,
Joseph L. Barfoot, aged 66 years. Brother Bar-
foot was born March 29, 1816, in the Fortress of
Warwick Castle, Warwick, England. He was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, in February 1856, and was an
active missionary during the remainder of his
residence in London; where he had labored pre-
viously in what was known as the "London City
Mission," according to the best light and
knowledge he had before receiving the new and
everlasting Gospel. He came to Utah in 1865,
and has ever since resided in this City. For
some years past he has occupied the position of
curator at the Museum, which he was most ad-
mirably qualified to fill. His genial and unas-
suming manner combined with his extensive
knowledge of natural curiosities, and minerals of
all kinds, as also of antiquities, rendered him cap-
able of imparting information in such a way as
to please and edify all who called upon him.
He was a man of uncommon talents and ac-
quirements. He had dived deep into the re-
cesses of science and stored his mind well with
the treasures he had found in his careful search
through the winding ways so few ever attempt
to travel. His happy adaptation of subjects gave
him the faculty of harmonizing science with re-
ligion—which is not usual with men of great
scientific attainments.
	He was undoubtedly the most learned man in
Utah, and indeed there are but few in the world
who possess such a vast mine of precious treas-
ures, and are capable of utilizing them for the
public good. Brother Barfoot was also gener-

[Column 2]

ously endowed with love for his fellow men, was
a philanthropist in the true sense of the word:
It was the great desire of his life to do good to
mankind.
	Prof. Barfoot was royally descended, on his
father's side from Robert Bruce, King of Scot-
land, and was heir to the Earldom of Crawford.
But worldly titles were nothing to him, his am-
bition was to secure an imperishable crown,
which he sought diligently and faithfully to ob-
tain. His mother was Sophia Louisa Ridley
directly descended from Bishop Ridley, who suf-
fered martyrdom at Smithfield, England; and
from his mother he inherited his strong religious
tendencies and unswerving faith in God. This
great good and learned man was as humble as a
child, gentle, modest and yet noble, high-
minded, liberal and charitable to all. One may
safely say he was indeed a Christian whose life
and example are well worthy imitation.
	The funeral of Prof. Barfoot, was held in the
21st, Ward meeting house, where some of those
who loved and respected this good man, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect, to
him who has gone to rest from his earthly
labors. Wreaths and bouquets of flowers were
laid upon his coffin, by loving hands; and all
present felt to endorse the many beautiful testi-
monies given of this worthy brother. Appropri-
ate hymns were well rendered by the ward choir,
prayer was offered by Br. Tuddenham, and brief
addresses were delivered by Elders George Rey-
nolds, Junius F. Wells, John Tuddenham, H.
W. Naisbett, John Nicholson, H. Foulger,
Bishop Thomas Taylor, and Elder George By-
water. Benediction by Elder Joseph E. Taylor.
	Much might be said and written of this wise
and venerable man, that would be a blessing
to the young people in this day, as well as
interesting to all. Bro. Barfoot has been for
years a regular contributor, to the Juvenile In-
structor, has writen considerably for the Des-
eret News and other papers and Magazines and
occasionally for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in
which he was much interested as he entertained
the most liberal views upon all questions re-
lating to the elevation and advancement of
woman.
	May Our Heavenly Father bless his family and
sanctify this bereavement to their good; and in
the morning of the first resurrection may they
be united again that his happiness may be com-
plete, is the wish of one who cherished for him
not only a great admiration of his high attain-
ments, but a sincere affection and many pleasant
recollections of his intelligent conversation.
	E. B, W.


