NORTH OCDEN.

	Minutes of a Primary Conference held at
North Ogden, February 25th, 1882. Sister M.
A. Wallace presiding. Singing, "We are the
children of the Saints;" prayer by Bishop Amos
Maycock; singing, "Gather up the Sunbeams;"
roll called, one hundred members present; min-
utes of the last meeting read and accepted;
programme read. Exercises: Recitation, Fran-

[Column 3]
ces Wharton, entitled "Joseph the Prophet;"
recitation, Andrew Clark, entitled "Obedience;"
song, Lydia and Emily Bailey and Bessie
Stevens, entitled "Daughter, don't let Mother
do it;" recitation, John Williams, entitled
"Poverty;" dialouge, Samuel Storey and Joseph
Cazier, entitled "A discussion between a Gen-
tile gentleman and a Mormon boy;" recitation,
Margaret Holmes, entitled "Address to a flower;"
song, William S. Wallace and Charles Ellis, en-
titled "Say, why do birdies warble?" recitation,
Ruth M. Evans, entitled "Lines inscribed to
Bishop Hunter;" recitation, Rose Brown, en-
titled "In memory of Joseph Standing;" song,
Edwin T. Alvord, entitled "Dare to do right;"
the first chapter of the "Bible Questions and
Answers" were repeated in concert by the
Association; song, by Harriet Barker and
Annie Storey, entitled "Lost and Saved;" reci-
tation, by Florence Wade, "Make the best of
life;" dialogue, "The history of Joseph the Pro-
phet," William and Thomas Richards; song,
"Mother is dying," Lilie Ellis and Mamie Cra-
gun; recitation, "Memento Mori," Lillie Rose;
recitations, Joseph and M. A. Wallace Jr.,"
"All things bright and beautiful," and "I'm
very young and little;" song, "Gladly meeting,"
by Naomi Jones; recitation, E. A. Chadwick,
"The Martyred Prophets;" recitation, William
S. Wallace, "The scripture alphabet;" song,
Nellie Richards, "I'll be a little Mormon;"
recitation; "Nobody like Mother," George
White; song; Lizzie Wallace, "I cannot sing the
old songs." President Wallace then gave the
meeting into the hands of the sisters from
Ogden. Sisters E. Y. Stanford and Rose
Canfield, counselors of the Primary Association
of Weber Stake, Sister H. Nye, Ogden, Bishop
Maycock and Counselors, of North Ogden.
Sisters Stanford, Canfield and Nye gave some
very excellent instructions to the children; they
were pleased with the exercises and said it
was the best conference of the Primary Associ-
ation they had ever attended. The president
and first counselor from the Hot Springs, gave
some very good advice; Bishop Maycock and
Sister M. A. Walker addressed the children.
Members enrolled, one hundred and sixty-nine.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing "Love at home." Benediction by Brother
N. Montgomery; Mary A. Wallace, President;
Margaret Storey and Sarah J. Ellis, Counsel-
ors; Elizabeth C. Wallace, Secretary; Mary
Storey, Assistant Secretary.

