THE TIMES ARE OUT OF JOINT.

	The sentiment expressed by Shakespeare
which is quoted above, is certainly applicable to
the present time. There is abundant evidence
of this to every reflective mind. The daily pa-
pers are filled with accounts of crimes, accidents,
death and disaster sickening to read; and one
cannot help longing for relief from these horrors
of every day occurrence. Where is the union
of purpose for the good of mankind, and the
security of life and liberty in the strength of
kingdoms and nations, that ought to character-
ize this age of boasted civilization, this enlight-
ened, highly cultured nineteenth century?

[Column 2]

	The record of the past year was filled, one
might say, with calamities. The assassination of
the Czar, and the foul murder of Pros. Garfield,
would indeed indicate that a spirit of lawlessness
and bloodshed was abroad in the world, that
made even kings and rulers stand in awe in
view of the dreadful evils that might in a mo-
ment overtake them. In the present year the
same spirit seems raging in the hearts of the
wicked urging them on to evil deeds. The at-
tempted assassination of Queen Victoria took
everybody by surprise; so good and noble a
Queen has seldom lived, and hard hearted in-
deed must be the villain who could pollute his
hands with the innocent blood of royalty. Fol-
lowing close upon that foul deed two faithful
administrators of Her Majesty's laws are mur-
dered in cold blood when sent to concilliate a
part of her people whose welfare and happiness
she desired to promote. Alas, poor unfortunate
Ireland, for there indeed "the times are out of
joint."
	How is it with our own beloved country "the
land of the free and the home of the brave."
Witness the controversy of the Congress of the
United States, on some most important matters
under consideration during the present session of
that honorable body. The legislation concerning
Utah, is only one of these, but the persecution
of a people because of their religion, in a land of
free thought and "the birthplace of free religious
liberty" plainly proves "the times are out of
joint."
	Have the great men of the nation left God
out of their Councils? If so, then indeed may
they fear and tremble. One can but think they
have, when they seek to oppress and break down
a handful of people who had sought refuge from
their cruel oppressors in the fastnesses of the
Mountains; where they had peopled the desert
and made it habitable for men, and only asked
the protection of the God of heaven, and the re-
cognition by the nation, of their rights as citiz-
ens, to which thousands of them were entitled
by birth, and all by the right of that honest
toil, that untiring industry which made the bar-
ren land fruitful, and its cities fair to look upon;
only the rights guaranteed to every man to man-
tain his manhood, these are the heritage of a
free-born people.

	Men who their duties know,
But know their rights, and, knowing dare maintain.

	How can Congress consistently with the spirit
of liberty, compel a people to renounce the prac-
tise of any principle of their religion? This is
indeed a paradox. It may be asserted that mar-
riage is no part of religion, but would not that
be a contradiction of all established precedents?
Do not all religious denominations marry accord-
ing to their own peculiar forms, or ceremonies,
and do they not make use of such words as seem
to them the most appropriate in performing this
sacred ordinance. Assuredly they do, and ever
have done. If the Edmund's bill should be en-
forced as it is understood by those who framed
it, then indeed will "the times be out of joint"
in Utah, where now life and property are most
secure, and where God's laws are held pre-em-
inent. The plans of wicked men to restrain and
curtail the liberties of a free people yea, even to
enslave them will be a vexation to this nation
for all time to come; their Councils will be con-
fused and their deliberations brought to naught.
They have sewn the wind they will reap the
whirlwind! Lying spirits have gone abroad over
the face of the earth, seeking whom they may
deceive, and they will deceive many, and it be-
hooves every person to know whether he is on
the Lord's side, and "hold fast to the iron rod,
which is the Word of God," that he may find
safety and deliverance in every time of need.

[Column 3]

	The Latter-day Saints should never swerve
one jot or tittle from the path of duty, but strive
earnestly to keep the faith. This claim is im-
perative. God has instituted a reform in the
earth, a plan of salvation which is higher, broad-
er, grander, deeper and reaches farther into the
future than any institution which man could
suggest. And even though the "times are out of
joint," there is One who can be safely relied upon
to set all things right. The great Physician,
the Healer will in his own due time, and in the
season thereof, restore all things to their proper
places, and his kingdom will be established
never to be thrown down, and righteousness will
be his sceptre.


