THOUGHTS AWAKENED BY CAMEO.
	Cameos have ever been great favorites of
mine! and I wore one of the immortal Shaks-
pere for many years daily, till it became as it
were an Amulet, but one unfortunate day I lost
my Cameo!
	I have seen some beautiful devices in Cameo.
One especially, I so well remember, it bore with
exquisite distinctness the thirteen personages,
composing “the last supper.” The centre figure
was of course, the Savior,—“the beloved Apos-
tle” on his right hand, and the remaning eleven
around the table. If I ever craved a jewel, it 
was the most exquisite one; but its price was
fifty guineas, and I had to return it into the
kind hands that had brought it for my inspec-
tion, knowing it would be the gem of my heart;
every feature was distinct, and even the ex-
pression of each face, vividly portrayed. But
the “Cameo,” that has struck many chords in
my heart, at the present moments in the Nom
de plume of the writer of the brief, but most in-
teresting article in the last issue of the EXPON-
ENT, headed “Spencer's Letters” The very
name brings before my mind such a crowd of
complicated reminiscences, that I find it difficult
to make any tangible. Were I to live to the age
of Methusalah, I could never forget the complex
feelings that thrilled through my whole system
as I took that little volume into my hands. I
had had the Latter-day work verbally laid before
me, and I had felt the truth of some of its prin-
ciples, for I could read them in the New Testa-
ment, but I had seen no book, or printed matter
of any sort regarding it. I was requested to 
read "Spencer's Letters," as a book that would
please, and more convince me; but I hesitated,
I feared it would "lead me to convictions I would
shun,” therefore I rather declined, but still was
not sa[-]isfied; at last I consented that it should
be purchased and sent to me. It came! I took it
into my hands, not attempting to open it, hold-
ing it with a species of awe, having an indistinct


idea, that, that book in some unaccountable
way, contained my destiny! I held it as by a spell,
wondering what I should do with it. At last
my mind arrived at a focus, I quietly went to
my own room, shut, and locked the door, went to
the spot where I was accustomed to offer up my
daily and nightly orisons, laid the book upon
the bed knelt down before it, and asked my
Father in Heaven, if that book contained Truth
that I might embrace—if error, that I might
reject it wholly and entirely. Of course my pray-
er contained more than this—but my memory
retains only these two sections.
	I arose, and again took the book into my
hands, and sat down by my bedside, my whole
system in a thrill of sacred awe. If I did not
fully realize that it was the most sacred, the
most important moment of my life, and that I
feel sure that angels were around, and sustaining
me, I could smile at the slow, and mysterious
way in which I so gently opened that little
book, and peered into its first words. At last I
had it wide open. I ventured to read its first
letter; I breathed freely once again. I felt as-
sured that the writer was a servant of the living
God! that he was a noble man—a gentleman—
one whose teachings bore the impress of him,
under whom he served, and worshiped, and
wrote, and thought. Every letter I read, I was
the more convinced, the more satisfied. All he
said was so conclusive; I thought all was told:
and when through I turned to the fly leaf, and
enthusiastically wrote upon it, "My Own, My
Own!" Those words stand there to-day; and to
day I endorse them.
	The annotations and reflections of Cameo, on
these letters are truthful, just, and appreciative;
and I joyfully endorse every one of them; for
they contain the language of my own heart.
And from the moment I read those letters I
became a Latter-day Saint. "Yesterday, to-day
and forever."		HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 9th 1882.


