MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

	It is a pleasant duty to review the lives of
those who have ever nobly borne their part, in
the great battle of life,and record a few of the
most noteworthy incidents connected with their
history, It is but just to publish concerning
those who have been foremost workers in some
good undertaking; who have proudly dis-
tinguished themselves, and achieved good for
their race; it is but just I say, to publish these
facts, for the benefit of others; that after gen-
erations may know what eminent examples
have been furnished them, and by whom.
	The history of this Church, when it is fully
written, will contain much in relation to wo-
man's work,and it is well that our readers should
know who some of these illustrious women are,
who were their antcedents, and what they have
done.
	The lady whose name is prefixed above, is
well known to most of our people. At the
present time she holds prominent public posi-
tions, and has for some years past been actively
engaged a great portion of the time doing pub-
lic duty. Let us go back to her origin and
early life and see how she came to be endowed

[Column 2]
with such strength of character. Mrs. Horne
says,
	"I was born on the 20th day of November,
1818, in the town of Rainham, County of Kent,
England. I am the daughter of Stephen and
Mary Ann Hales, and the eldest daughter of a
large family. My parents were honest, indus-
trious people. I was taught to pray when very
young, to be honest and truthful, to be kind to
my associates, and to do good to all around
us.
	"My early years were spent in attending
school, and in assisting my mother in domestic
duties.
	I took great delight in my studies at school,
when I could be spared from my duties at
home. I improved every opportunity that I
could get in gleaning knowledge."
	Sister Horne as a child, was industrious dili-
gent, persevering and exemplary. The same
characteristics that have developed into such
sublime strength and made her so self-reliant,
and helpful to others,were apparent in her child
hood, and no doubt she inherited many of these
noble traits of character from a long line of
ancestry. Her father was a Methodist, and her
mother a member of the Church of England.
Mrs. Horne as a child had strong religious tend-
encies, and consequently clung more to the faith
of her father, in which there was more of the
spiritual and less of ceremonious form, than in
the Church of which her mother was a member.
Mrs. Horne was in childhood a regular attend-
ant at Sunday School,to which she was specially
attached, as it not only was another source of
gaining intelligence, but fed and fostered the
growth of her spiritual inclinations. When re-
quested by her Sabbath School teacher to com-
mit to memory, two or three verses from the
Bible, she would learn a whole chapter or per-
haps two, and recite without being prompted.
In this way she became familiar with the
Scriptures, and her young mind thus impressed
with beautiful truths from the words of our
Savior, prophets and apostles, she was well
prepared to receive in due time, the Gospel of
the new and last dispensation. When only in
her eleventh year,she became so fascinated with
the Bible, that her leisure hours after the la-
bors of the day were over, were employed in
reading and studying the history and incidents,
the sublime parables and teachings contained
in that sacred work.
	In 1832 Mrs. Horne's parents decided to
emigrate, and after considering Van Dieman's
land somewhat favorably, finally concluded to
go to Upper Canada. They sailed from Eng-
land on the 16th of April. The family con-
sisted of Mr. and Mrs. Hales, five sons and two
daughters, Mary Isabella (now Mrs. Horne)
being the eldest of the two. The sea voyage
was tedious; the mother was sick during the
entire voyage, and one little boy died upon the
way, and was consigned to a watery grave.
The ship anchored at Quebec, and after perils
by sea, storms and dangers, the Hales arrived
in York on the 16th day of June 1832, stran-
gers in a strange land; and there they found that
dread disease, the cholera, making fearful rav-
ages; but the Lord preserved them all in health.
The following Spring, 1833, the family removed
to the country, about eight miles from York.
Mrs. Hales' health was delicate and conse-
quently the care of the large family devolved
upon Mary Isabella, though only fifteen years
of age, but she was quite equal to the man-
agement of household affairs, and scrupulously

[Column 3]
conscientious in regard to her duty in honor
and obedience to her parents.
	In the Spring of 1834, she attended a Meth-
odist Camp-meeting in the neighborhood, where
she first met Mr. Joseph Horne, and subse-
quently became intimately acquainted, the
friendship ripening into love, and two years
afterwards Joseph Horne and Mary Isabella
Hales, were united in marriage on the 9th day
of May, 1836. The young husband owned a
farm and there the young couple took up their
abode in a house of their own, with everything
around them comfortable, and the feeling that
they had settled down for life.

To be Continued.


