TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.

	The Anniversary of the Primary Association
of the 20th Ward was held in the schoolhouse
on Wednesday, April 19th, 1882. Mrs.
Emma Toone presiding. Exercises as usual.
Roll called; one hundred and twenty six-mem-
bers present. The programme for the after-
noon was as follows:
	Essay, written by Miss Isabella Salmon; sub-
ject, "The Primary Association." Song, "Mossy
Old Mill," by Kate Sharp, Lucy Savage and
Emily Sharp. Dialogue, by Selina Pusey and
Millie Reynolds, on "The First Principles of the
Gospel." Recitation, "Our Darling Baby," by
Kate Romney. Song, "I'm going to write
to Papa," with accompaniment on the small
piano, by Josie Daynes. Essay, on "Truth," by
George Ross. Bible questions, answered by the
Association. Recitation, "Boys of Spirit," by
Willie Culmer. Song, by Flora Phillips, en-
titled "Happy Moments." Lines on the resto-
ration of the Gospel, recited by Georgina Toone.
Essay, on "Obedience," by Lucy Savage. Song,
"May-day," by the juvenile choir. Dialogue,
on "Attending Sabbath School," by Frank
Pusey and Willie Phillips. Recitation, "Order-
ly Habits," by Mary Ann Jackson. Recitation
in Concert, "Young Missionaries," by four boys
and five girls. Song, by Emma Forrest, "I
wish Mamma was here." Reading, from the


Book of Mormon, by Willie Knight. Song, by
Mary Romney, "Cling to me ever." Recitation,
by Maud and Lilly Potter, a humorous
piece. Recitation, by Isabella Romney, "Morn-
ing Prayer." Song, by Ida Savage, Ida San-
some and Lenny Savage, "The unfinished
prayer." Recitation, by Rhoda Jackson, "Sleep,
Dolly, sleep." Recitation, by Alice Reynolds,
Scriptural, from the Juvenile Instructor. Song
by the Association, "Love at Home."
	Addresses were then delivered by Sisters E.
R. Snow Smith, Ellen C. Clawson, Louie Felt,
Rachel R. Grant and Counselor Pusey,
Bros. Lewis, Romney, Salmon, Richards and
Simmons; all of which were very brief but
interesting and instructive.
	The children were then treated to a sumptu-
ous feast of cake, oranges and candy. The 
pleasant affair winding up with a dance for the
young folks. Altogether the children spent an
enjoyable time.
	CECILIA SHARP,
	Corresponding Secretary.

