BIBLE DOCTRINE.

	We, as a community, feel thankful for the
good will Mrs. Scott manifests towards us in
asking at the right source whether these things
said of us are true. The Savior said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall hate you," etc. "Rejoice
ye in that day, and leap for joy." St. Luke,
chapter vi. Now we do not wish to be under-
stood by saying, "We mind our own business,"
that we do not wish a candid and thorough
investigation of our principles and of our
motives in the full belief in all good that em-
anates from God our Heavenly Father, which
we have embraced, and accepted for our salva-
tion in this life and hereafter. We thank you for
your noble-mindedness of inquiry, your sus-
pended judgement until convinced by stronger
testimony than by an enemy to the religious
views of our domestic happiness, and our
rights which we, in common with others, claim
in a Christian land. We wish more of our
sisters abroad would come forward, as you
have done, and make it their particular bus-
iness to inquire into all matters pertaining to
us, in relation to the truth, and we shall take
great pleasure in answering questions in a
Christian-like manner. We will talk together,
not for evil, but to bring about good results
and fellowship with the honest and upright in
heart.
	You say you do not believe in Mormon-
ism, perhaps you might believe in the book
called "the Book of Mormon," if you should
read its contents; it is a historical record of
the ancient people of this continent, handed
down by them for many generations. It was
kept and preserved and brought to light by
one of their Prophets. The origin of that
ancient people is a mystery to the world, but if
they would read the "Book of Mormon," it
would be so no longer, but prejudice blinds the
eyes of mortals, and they remain ignorant.
Why is this? Because judgement is passed
without investigation. Now Ann Eliza, the
lecturer, is acting under different motives
altogether from what we are. She acts, writes
and, speaks to put money into the pockets of
her helpers, who are ever on the alert to feed
the public on trash and falsehood to get gain,

[Column 2]

which is a very easy way to live without hard
work. We will lay belief on one side in set-
ting forth our principles, for we have actual
knowledge. Before we received the ordinances
of the Gospel, we believed and were baptized
for the remission of our sins; we had hands
laid upon our heads by men holding the Priest-
hood of the Son of God, by which the Holy
Ghost was conferred upon us, which is the
pattern that was given to the former day Saints.
The Spirit, thus received, brings all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; now if we deny the spirit of revelation
we cannot possess it. This gives us actual
knowledge without a doubt. We receive the
gift of the Gospel. Please read St. Mark, last
chapter, and read the Savior's words, "Go
ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to
every creature." Would it not make thousands
of infidels if this Gospel could be changed to
other forms? We are persecuted because we
believe in its unchangeable laws, "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one jot
or tittle of my word shall fail." Now I can
quote many passages of Scripture to substan-
tiate this, which can be read at leisure:
"Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach
any other doctrine than that we have preaced,
let him be accursed." Peter, when preaching
in Jerusalem, convinced his hearers, and they
said: "What shall we do?" Then Peter said un-
to them, "Repent and be baptized, every one
of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the re-
mission of your sins," etc. The Acts, chapter ii.
Second Epistle of John. "He that abideth in
the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father
and the Son;" also, "There is but one faith,
one Lord and one baptism." Read Revelations,
chapter xiv: "And I saw another angel fly
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation, kindred, tougue
and people." Ever lasting, unchangeable, to be
preached to the inhabitants of the earth for
their salvation and eternal glory. After hav-
ing our minds enlightened by the spirit of di-
vine truth, we cannot be persuaded to relin-
quish our principles or go back into the old
beaten track of ignorance—modern civilization.
Well, our paper is small, and I must draw my
subject to a close, as others will want room to
express their views, as the questions advanced
by Mrs. Scott for our consideration involve
much in thought and research, especially in
relation to rewards and punishment.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April, 25th, 1882.


[Column 1]﻿
