SEVIER STAKE.

	The tenth Quarterly Conference of Sevier
Stake of Zion was held at Richfield, March
17th, 1882. President Elizabeth Bean pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, Sis-
ter Bean expressed herself as being happy in
meeting her brethren and sisters in conference
capacity, and thankful for the good spirit we
had with us. Desired each one to try, by the
spirit of the Lord, to magnify their calling,
and perform the duties devolving upon them.
	President A. K. Thurber, who had just re-
turned from the Legislature, addressed the con-
ference. Related interesting incidents of the
Legislature. Briefly referred to the passage of
the Edmunds bill, and its unjust and unneces-
sary laws. Exhorted the sisters to live humble
and faithful, and seek for the spirit of God to
guide them. Invoked the blessings of heaven
upon them.
	President Bean felt to endorse the remarks
of Brother Thurber. She was reminded of
Brother Kimball's comparison of this work to
a stalk of mustard. She loved the land of her
birth. Persecution had commenced at the
house of the Lord, and we should cleanse the
inside of the platter. Order should be in every
family; for this kingdom is one of order. Said
the Gentile women could not understand the
principle of Celestial Marriage; and they never
would.
	Bishop Wright followed with a few remarks.
Singing. Benediction by Brother G. W. Bean.
	2 P. M. After singing and prayer, the pres-
idents, of the different societies, gave verbal re-
ports of their societies, showing that those who
were interested were diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duty.
	Sister Celia E. Bean read the statistical and
financial reports of each society, and a com-
piled stake report.
	The conference was addressed by Brothers
Pierce, Oldroyd and Entz, Sisters Heywood
and Bean. All gave good counsel, and invoked
the blessings of Heaven upon all branches of
the Relief Society. Conference adjourned un-
til June 16th, 1882. Singing. Benediction.
					CELIA E. BEAN,
						Secretary pro tem.

