MRS. EMILY SCOTT.

	Dear Lady: Do not for a moment think
because I have been silent with regard to your
letters in the EXPONENT, that I have felt
apathetic, no indeed. They have been quite
refreshing to me, to find there is, at least, one
mind out in that world we came from, who is
so honest as to say she "does not believe in
Mormonism, neither one half of what is said
against it."  Good my Lady!  again, you "went
to hear Ann Eliza's lecture," and you were
neither amused or edified.  Does she always
read the same words?  How she must weary
people who have any brains, and make use
of them!  it really does not speak loudly to me
in favor of her audiences; thank Heaven I was
not one of them!  for such an audience must
possess a morbid, vitiated taste, that could list-
en to the Parrot talk of such a palmipede Lect-
urer (?) (save the mark)—I have not the least
possible desire to proselyte you, or any other
person, not even my own "Kith and Kin."
My religion is too precious to intrude on "peo-
ple we meet."  I embraced it with an honest
heart, and have done my best to live up to its
precepts and requirements, for the last thirty

[Column 2]
years and have never seen the first moment
that I repented of that grand epoch of my life.
Paul said, he "became a fool for the Gospel's
sake"—and he was an educated man, taught
at the feet of Gamaliel, his sublime address to
King Agrippa testifies of this, after all these
centuries of increased accumulated learning,
that he was an accomplished scholar—yet he
said the words I have quoted.  So I with a de-
cent stock of school education and a far higher
one acquired in my beloved home, my parents
being my preceptors—I, too became a fool
for the Gospel's sake; but let me define this,
—I laid my heart and brain upon the altar
and many of the dogmas of the High Church
of England,in which I was raised and educated,
vacated my cushioned Pew in the dear old
Church (I mean of course the building) and
attended a Chapel where we sat on benches
beside the poor, the unlearned, the humble,
and the unsophisticated, with of course excep-
tions to all these, for the net was to gather of
every kind.  There we assembled in a happy
congregation of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the
Laws laid down by our Savior literally; entered
by the door at which He had passed thro' be-
fore us, setting an example to all who would
hereafter take the name of Christian.
	I virtually laid my all upon the altar, if
need be—if this and much more constitutes me
"a fool for the Gospel's sake," I willingly
claim the title! but my experience realized to
me that I sprang to a higher degree of intelli-
gence, and have so continued! here Paul and
I appear to differ; but when we meet I have
no doubt we shall see eye to eye, as we both
obeyed the same laws, laid down by the same
Master.  I do not pretend to assert that the
mighty heterogeneous masses of people that
have been gathered into the Church of Jesus
Xt. are all Saints in very deed; that is neither
probable, or possible, but I do know that a
large majority are the honest and pure from
all nations, desiring to know the right way, and
to walk therein.  All this mighty Gospel ed-
ucation you may be sure is not acquired with-
out much labor, trial and it may be suffering.
When a child is sent from home to "Boarding
school," does it not suffer in its feelings and
affections?  Does it not find the lessons hard to
learn?  Oh! sometimes so hard! but it is placed
there in kindness, for its own benefit, and that
it may hereafter be a blessing to all associated
with it; and that it may become useful "in its
day and generation."  The L. D. S., are in
the Lord's school, the highest yet upon the
earth.  Those who enter in ignorance soon be-
come well informed and intelligent, they are
taught true principles, and then they govern
themselves of course; as a natural consequence
the most assiduous, soon become the most
efficient; but stay!—You'll think I'm preach-
ing!
	If you desire to ask me any question, either
through the EXPONENT, or by private letter, I
shall be pleased to answer to the best of my
ability.  Don't trouble your mind about Poly-
gamy (that is not our word) because that it is
now a forbidden thing.  We have now become,
under the iron rod of Priestcraft, in the free Re-
public of America!! When that is settled,
what next?  For that is only the first letter of
the clerical alphabet "they" intend to teach us.
Polygamy is a detestable word to me, coming
out of mouths that speak neither with the
"spirit, nor with the understanding." I have
written as fast as the pen could transcribe my
thoughts and ideas; truth is easily told and
needs no forethought circumlocution—it is a
God-like word—but is almost obsolete in some
places; were it the universal motto, how much
sorrow, and sin, would be wiped from the
earth.
		Your friend,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City May 5th, 1882.


