BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Before closing the correspondence between
my parents during their separation in 1839 and
40, I will copy a few extracts from another
of my mother's letters to father.
	She writes: "I must tell you a little more
about our English sisters. One week ago
yesterday a number of them came to see me.
I will mention their names, Sister Pool, Sister
Ware, Sisters Margaret and Lydia Moon, and
Susannah Moon. I must say I never enjoyed
a visit better. They seemed as glad to see me
as though we had always been acquainted.
When they first came in, after shaking hands
with me, the next object that caught their eyes
was our little David, "Ah!" said they, "there
is Heber, see his eyes." They then went to the
bed to lay off their things, and there beheld
your portrait, and such another ado I never
heard. "Oh!" said they, "it is so like him,"
and then they wept like children, and all said
I must give their best love to you. All of the
English Saints, that I have seen seem to be
contented and happy; but I am told that some
of them murmur very much, especially the
B——s, I expect they have got too much money
to be happy here.
	"Brother Lyman Johnson, called the day
that the sisters were here, and had quite a chat
with them. They all sang so beautifully that
it was quite a paradise. One of their songs
was for you to come to Zion instead of to Eng-
land. Sister Moon says that I must expect to
have my house full for a time after you come
home. Please give my love to Elders Wood-
ruff and Smith, and tell them I thank them for
the few lines they wrote me. Tell Brother
Woodruff his wife left here in company with
two of her brothers, about a week before Elder
Turley arrived. She proposes visiting her
parents in the State of Maine, and remain un-
til her husband returns from Europe. You
can inform him, that the things sent to his
wife all came safe, and I have them in my care
agreeable to her request.	* * * The child-
ren are impatient to have you come home; you
are losing all of the most interesting part of
little David's life. A child is never so pretty
and interesting as when they first begin to
walk and talk. He is now well and goes prat-
tling about the house, and you may be assured
we all think him very cunning. He is called
Heber altogether by the neighbors. Every
one says that ought to be his name. Brother
Charles C. Rich says, "if he lives he will look
as much like you as Seth did like Adam—who


[Column 1]

could only be distinguished by their eyes.
Brother Rich and wife send much love to you,
also Brother Hubbard and wife, and family,
and all of the neighbors. Sisters Sarah Milli-
can and Louisa Beamen, were here yesterday
and wished to be remembered to you and breth-
ren, also Sisters Laura and Abigail Pitkin,
they are faithful to pray for you. They say
you promised if they would be, they should be
partakers of your blessings. Please give my
love to all your quorum and all the Saints who
enquire after me. We are all well except
William, who has just got his ankle bruised
with a wagon running over it; but I think the
bone is not hurt. Your Journal is now in
press. Now farewell my dear Heber, and may
the Lord bless and comfort your heart in Christ
is the prayer of your unworthy companion,"
		VILATE KIMBALL.
	The Journal which my mother mentioned as
being in press,is now at the Juvenile Instructor
Office, where I have lately sent it, and it may
be in the press, which is quite a coincidence be-
ing about forty years from the time that it was
first published in Nauvoo and this was an old
number found among my father's papers.
	The following interesting incident was re-
lated to me by Brother Charles W. Hubbard
who stayed with us a portion of the time during
our late Conference. As is well known Presi-
dent Young was very sick when he crossed the
Mississippi River, and was brought by a brother
to the house of Heber C. Kimball, the day be-
fore they started upon their mission to Europe.
My father was also sick with the same disease
(ague) but after the fever went off he climbed
upon his house and was trying to finish the
roof when his brother missionary (Brigham
Young) came out to walk a little to try his
strength, but in the effort fainted and fell to
the ground. Father not having strength to
lift him, called to brother Charles W. Hub-
bard, who lived just across the river, to come
and assist him in bringing President Young in-
to the house; where, after placing him upon
the bed, they administered to him and again
he recovered. Bro. Hubbard said that father
followed him to the door, as he started for
home, and said, "Charley I doubt very much if
Brigham ever rises from that bed;" but had
no sooner uttered the words, than he spoke up
as with another voice and said, "He shall live
and start upon his mission with me tomorrow
morning;" and sure enough they did start the
next morning, as (I think) no other missionar-
ies ever did, and they performed the work for
which they were sent, as the following from the
Prophet Joseph's History will show.
	"All the quorum of the Twelve Apostles
who were expected here this season, with the
exception of Willard Richards and Wilford
Woodruff, have arrived.
	"We have listened to the accounts which
they give of their success, and prosperity of the
work of the Lord in Great Britain, with pleas-
ure. They certainly have been instruments in
the hands of God, of accomplishing much, and
must have the satisfaction of knowing that
they have done their duty. Perhaps no men
over undertook such an important mission un-
der such peculiarly distressing, forbidding and
unpropitious circumstances. Most of them,
when they left this place, nearly two years ago,
were worn down with sickness and disease, or
were taken sick on the road. Several of their
families were also afflicted, and needed their
aid and support. But knowing that they had
been called by the God of heaven, to preach
the Gospel to other nations, they conferred not
with flesh and blood, but obedient to the heav-
enly mandate, without purse or scrip, com-
menced a journey of five thousand miles en-
tirely dependent on the providence of that God
who had called them to such a holy calling.
	"While journeying to the seaboard, they
were brought into many trying circumstances. 

[Column 2]

After a short recovery from severe sickness
they would be taken with a relapse, and have
to stop among strangers, without money and
without friends. Their lives were several times
despaired of, and they have taken each other
by the hand, expecting it was the last time
they should behold one another in the flesh.
	Notwithstanding their afflictions and trials,
the Lord always interposed in their behalf, and
did not suffer them to sink into the arms of
death. Some way or other was made for their
escape; friends rose up when they most needed
them, and relieved their necessities, and thus
they were enabled to pursue their journey and
rejoice in the holy one of Israel. They truly
went forth weeping, bearing precious seed, but
have returned rejoicing bearing their sheaves
with them."
	What, but religion could have prompted the
Apostles and Elders of this Church, to leave
their homes, wives, children and every earthly
tie, taking their lives in their hands, as they
did, to go forth into the world without purse or
scrip, which they have done from the beginning
until the present time? The Elders of this
Church have never preached for hire, no nor
have the poor, whom they have converted and
gathered to Zion, ever been shut out from the
congregations, because they were unable for-
sooth, to pay for a pew, or to make a display, of
the latest and richest styles of dress and bon-
nets etc.; but the rich and poor have fared
alike; though many, because of prosperity,
have become lifted up in the pride of their
hearts, and seem to have forgotten the Hand
that led them forth from the darkness, ignor-
ance and bondage, in which they were held in
their native lands, making them a free and
happy people, and have sought with far greater
energy for the wealth and honors of the world,
than for the love of the Father who giveth or
taketh away, as seemeth Him good. But they
are not the ones who will come up in remem-
brance before Him, for He says "Blessed are ye
poor for yours is the kingdom of God." "But
wo unto you that are rich for ye have received
your consolation."
	We read that our Savior was lowly, unedu-
cated, and much poorer in worldly circum-
stances, than was Joseph Smith the Prophet,
and his friends and associates (according to
history) were also of a poorer class, simple in
their ways and habits, and if He "had to sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things," then how can any one else expect to
be exalted or to dwell with Him in the
eternal worlds, unless they are willing to fol-
low in his footsteps; to be humbled, chastened,
scourged and afflicted, and endure all things?
For He says "I will have a tried people,', and
"Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth and
scourgeth every one whom he receiveth." The
chaff must be sifted out. The allurements
which are thrown around us are very great and
so dazzle the eye, that unless we keep a faithful
guard over ourselves—holding on to the Iron
Rod, we are in great danger of being swallowed
up, in the same whirlpool where so many have
been lost; "Selling their birthright for a mess
of pottage," and would have sunk to rise no
more.
	Those who have not the knowledge and as-
surance that the course which they are pursuing
is according to the will of God, cannot endure
all these afflictions and persecutions, taking
joyfully the spoiling of their goods and even if
necessary to suffer death, by the hands of their
foes. They will grow weary and faint and fall
by the way unless they have unshaken con-
fidence and a perfect knowledge for themselves.
They cannot make a sacrifice of their character
and reputation; and give up their houses, their
lands, brothers, sisters, wives and children;
counting all things as dross, when compared
with the eternal life and exaltation, which
our Savior has promised to the obedient; and

[Column 3]

this knowledge is not obtained without a strug-
gle nor the glory without a sacrifice of all
earthly things. In the last days (we read) the
Lord is to gather together his Saints who
have made covenant with Him by sacrifice and
each one must know that their sacrifice is ac-
cepted as did righteous, Abel and Abraham
the Father of the faithful. Every Latter-day
Saint knows this to be true, and that ac-
cording to our faith so are our blessings and
privileges.
	Anciently, we read, that nothing was with-
held from the ones whose faith was sufficient
to receive it. The mouths of the lions were
stopped, and the violence of fire quenched, they
were valiant in fight, and escaped the edge of
the sword, and put to flight the armies of the
aliens. Women, by their faith, recieved their
dead children to life again, and obtained heav-
enly visions, the ministry of angels, and some
became familiar with the third heavens, saw
and heard things which were unutterable, and
unlawful to utter. Many of the Saints can
testify that they have witnessed just as power-
ful miraculous manifestations, as did the an-
cient women of Scripture, so have many of the
"Mormon" women obtained heavenly visions,
their sick have been healed and even the dead
raised to life again.
	A grand and glorious work is this which the
Lord has set his hand for the last time to per-
form, and how vain and worthless is the wealth
and pomp of this lower world, when compared
with the great exaltation and glorious riches of
eternity which will endure forever; and how
small and insignificant does it make the works
of man appear to Saints of God, who are awake
and have in weakness girded on the armor of
truth and righteousness, and now stand firm
upon the watch tower waiting to witness the
Grand Tableau, yea, the closing, the winding
up scene of the Almighty King of Kings, and
Lord of Lords who has ever been our friend
and advocate and his spirit still whispers to
his Saints, Fear not for as the poet said:

	"I have beheld my love and mercy scorned;
	Have seen my laws despised, my name blasphemed,
	My providence accused, my gracious plans
	Opposed; and long, too long, have I beheld
	The wicked triumph, and my saints reproached
	Maliciously, while on my altars lie,
	Unansered still, their prayers and their tears,
	Which seek my coming, wearied with delay:
	And long disorder in my moral reign
	Has walked rebelliously, disturbed the peace,
	Of my eternal government, and wrought,
	Confusion spreading far and wide among
	My works inferior, which groan to be
	Released."
		—Pollock's Course of Time.
To be continued.


