EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend:—Will you allow me to express
a few of my feelings through the columns of
the EXPONENT, regarding my relatives and
progenitors, bearing the name of Coffin, and by
that means I may more readily communicate
with them? They have been most assiduously
searching our genealogies, and in getting up
the Tristram Coffin reunion, which has been a
great undertaking; and I want to express my
gratitude and the great interest I take in their
proceedings publicly, and show my reverence to
my noble ancestors. I am anxiously looking
for the book that the union is about to publish
respecting this extensive family, both lineal and
collateral, and I know many here in the
mountains of Utah who will rejoice with me
in reading it, and will make use of the gene-
alogies it will contain; and I take this mode of
publicly expressing my feelings upon this sub-
ject, by sending an EXPONENT to each of the
heads of my relations. I received a paper they
sent me, containing a most interesting account
of our English branch of the family; which I
felt, as I read, was indeed an honor to us; and
I felt my spirit inspired, as I read, by the
spirit of these my English ancestors of eight
hundred years. I will here give an extract

[Column 2]

from a letter of Mrs. Mary Coffin Johnson,
of Brooklyn, who visited our relatives in
Portledge, England. She says: "Portledge is
one of the very few estates in England which
has remained for so great a length of time in a
family retaining the original name, about eight
hundred years! On entering the gateway, the
drive through the park is nearly half a mile in
length, on a winding road overshadowed by
noble oaks. At almost every turn some new
charm and fresh beauty is disclosed, until the
lordly mansion is seen.
	"The butler received us at the hall door. Our
cards were taken to J. R. Pine Coffin, the
hospitable owner and lord of the manor, who
soon appeared, and cordially welcomed us. I
had previously exchanged letters with him, con-
cerning my proposed visit. Much to my re-
gret, I had not the pleasure of meeting the
lady of Portledge; she having been suddenly
called to the death-bed of her mother. She
is highly spoken of, as a most estimable lady,
and is the sister of the late Captain Speake,
the Nile voyager. Our English cousin, J.
B. Pine Coffin is a specimen of an English
gentleman—and a Coffin! He is fine and
noble in physique, and leads one, cordially,
to admire him, being frank, genial and most
hospitable.
	"One remark, just before we started for our
walk over the estate, was of personal interest
to me, betraying, as it did, the independence of
thought and action which every Coffin pos-
sessed when convinced of a good measure.
Said he, "You shall take some refreshment be-
fore we go, will you have tea, coffee or cocoa?
I am a teetotaller, I do not offer wine to my
guests." This gentleman has ten children,
forming a lovely group from Miriam, down to
baby 'Dorothy,' who was in nurse's arms—
excellent types of real full-blooded Coffins," etc.
	And now I want to remark on the grand
success of the re-union held on Nantucket
Island on the 16th, 17th and 18th of August,
1881, being the last resting place of Tristram
Coffin and his wife, Dionis, and the first of their
name in America. Two monuments are to be
erected to their memory in honor of them; also a
genealogical history is to be printed; and I feel
to sustain the memorial by having each of my
family join it, and contribute their means to it.
One of my sons is on the committee, and has
received a notice from Andrew G. Coffin, of
New York, treasurer, 72 John street, to for-
ward our subscription to the Coffin Testimonial
Fund as enclosed in the circular. The arduous
and protracted labors performed by him, by
which the re-union was made so grand a success,
richly deserves recognition at the hands of
the clan.
	I have received several papers from Prof.
Selden J. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Easton,
Penn., giving account of the celebration each
day; and have obtained valuable records from
our noble English relative, and some valuable
portraits in good preservation. All this has
given me delight and satisfaction. The history
of the Coffin family, going so far back, will give
some history and line of ancestry to many in
this country, and the mountains. My son and
some of the family intended to have been at
the re-union last August, but business prevented,
but are in hopes to be able to go before long,
to visit the beloved spot of our kindred and
ancestors. If this is printed, I will send several
papers to my beloved relatives and friends.
	Respectfully yours,
		ELMIRA PINKHAM TUFTS.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


G. P. Putman and Sons, have in press a vol-
ume by Eben G. Scott, on the "Development
of Constitutional Liberty in the English Colo-
nies of America."—Ex.


