A TYPICAL FEUDAL CITY.

	If the reader will turn to the map of Europe 
and place her finger near the centre of tne ‘
southern half of the German Empire, it will
indicate almost the exact position of the city of
Nuremberg (or Nurnberg), and that name
will probably sound familiar, for one or more
reasons, to most of those who peruse this article.
Those who are mothers, and hence deal more
or less in playthings, will recall the fact that
the fame of Nuremberg toys has reached even
the valleys of Utah. Some will remember the
city as the birthplace, on the 21st of May,
1471, of Albrecht Durer, painter and engraver,
the versatility of whose gifts made him more
nearly resemble the immortal Angelo than any
other artist of history. A very celebrated
sculptor, Adam Krafft, was also born here, and
during a long life left, in many parts of the
town, evidences of his great excellence with
the chisel; and some noted die-sinkers and
metal-workers, as well as two or three poets, a
historian or two, and other men whose names,
if mentioned, would be familiar to the biograph-
ical student, first saw light in this city.
	To those who belong to the large class of
human beings who earn their living by the use
of the pencil, it will be no news to say that situ-
ated here are the factories of the Messrs. Faber,
whose pencils are known and used all over the
civilized world. I will not presume to think
any of my readers know any thing about the
quality or reputation of Nuremberg beer; but
evreywhere in Europe and in nearly all parts
of the United States, it is a favorite for its
fine and peculiar flavor, its rich color and its
purity. But the city is quite a famous one in
Europe, for various other reasons, and in quaint
old Germany itself has the reputation of being 
one of the best preserved of the ancient forti-
fied towns of the empire.
	Like everything else which makes an en-
during mark upon the page of history, Nurem-
berg is greatly indebted for its existence to a
woman—in fact a woman, if not the actual
founder of the city, was at least the one who
gave it the stability and prestige which it has
never lost to this day. Something over eight
hundred years ago there lived in central Europe
an Empress, named Kunigunde, whos career,
if all be true that is told about her, was a very
interesting one. I am not aware that she has
had any accurate biographer, who has taken
the pains to search after proofs of her wonder-
ful deeds, and who has refrained from giving
credence to such stories as were at best but
the wild superstitions of the peasantry. On
the contrary, every writer who has mentioned
her at all, seems to have adopted what previous
historians have said, and added a little himself
to make his book more entertaining. We all
know, from every day experience, how rapidly
a tale grows and improves with each successive
repetition, and we can each therefore form an
idea of how small a foundation, eight hundred
years ago, may have existed for the marvelous
accounts which we read of to-day. For ex-
ample, it is quite a common tradition nowa-
days respecting this Kunigunde that she came
from heaven to earth in a flame of fire, as a
perfect woman, in the height of beauty, and
possessing all the elements of immortality. An
earlier story is that as she lay in her little
cradle, flames of fire were seen to dart from and
envelope it, much to the alarm of her parents,
whom she, however, reassured by telling them,
though she was only three months old, that
she would not be injured. And a still earlier
tradition, and probably one somewhere near
correct, recites that as the infant princess was
for the first time presented to her delighted
father, the great chimney place took fire and
fell wih a loud crash—a good omen, so the old
nurses said, indicating that the child should
become great and mighty, tearing down old

[Column 2]

empires and causing new ones to grow up in
their stead.
	It would be very wearisome to relate all the
events of her childhood as told by such histor-
ians as believe she had a childhood, or to men-
tion the various traditions still held as to the
signs of heavenly displeasure at the time of
her marriage. Suffice it to say, whether she
were a heavenly or an earthly being, she had
a true woman's heart, and yielded to the wooing
of a handsome young prince, whom she mar-
ried amid great rejoicings of the people and
with bright prospects of lifelong happiness.
She, however, was ambitious and restless, while
her husband was indolent and satisfied to pass
away his life in ease and the pursuit of pleasure.
She therefore assumed the lead of affairs, es-
tablished herself at the city of Nuremberg
(now heard of for the first time in history), de-
fended it with strong fortifications, made con-
tinual inroads upon the territory of her weaker
neighbors, and was able to resist the attacks of
her stronger ones. She ruled with severity,
giving simple justice always, but mercy, never.
The Burg, or castle, now mostly rebuilt, situ-
ated on an elevated sandstone rock, is where
she lived, and in the courtyard still grows the
old lime tree, planted by her, under which she
sat sternly administering her own laws. Many
of the walls and defences, said to have been
erected by her orders, and according to her
own designs, also remain and attest the true
Amazonian character and attributes credited
to her. And all this was done in a very short
time, for in the prime of life, some say in less
than ten years after her marriage, she came to
her death under the following painful circum-
stances.
	From her last incursion into a neighboring
province, she brought, as prisoner, to her strong-
hold a brave robber knight, whose manly,
proud bearing, during his imprisonment, quite
won her heart, and she made overtures to him
promising him liberty, great wealth, and half
her kingdom if he would join her in a con-
spiracy to get her husband out of the way.
About this time it appears that her ease-loving
lord became a little suspicious, and set spies to
watch the maneuvres of his cunning better
half. At last, just as she had locked the jailor
in his own room, and was opening the gates to
the knight, who was already on his horse,
the betrayed husband with his guards rushed in
and gave a very unexpected conclusion to the
programme. The empress threw the keys of
the fortress down a deep well, while the knight,
knowing that certain death awaited him, re-
solved to meet it in an attempt to escape. He
spurred his horse on to the parapet wall, at a
single bound, cleared the moat which encircled
the castle, and was free. Cheated of one of
his conspirators, the emperor, now thoroughly
aroused, resolved to punish the other at once,
and very affectionatly threw his wife headlong
down the well, ordering her to bring the keys
to him before she need expect his forgiveness.
It is said that she did come once, with the keys.
hanging at her girdle, but her ghostly appear-
ance was so terrible that the poor conscience-
stricken man died of fright. In confirmation
of these details, the old castallan leads the
unbeliever to the well itself (fee six cents), and 
lower candles into it to show its great depth,
while with solemn whispers, he declares that
by means of a mirror properly arranged, on a
dark night, the spirit of the restless woman
may be seen, groping about for the castle keys,
without which she cannot accompany her hus-
band to paradise. As the moat at this point is
about one hundred and thirty feet wide and
one hundred deep, with perpendicular walled
sides, T was disposed to doubt the equestrian 
feat of the robber; but the guide triumphantly
led me to a certain part of the castle wall where
two deep indentations made by the hoofs of
the steed in his grand leap still remain, mute

[Column 3]

witnesses of the truthfulness of the warder's
tale. I was also amused at his reply to my
assertion that I did not believe his account
about the tree under which Kunigunde admin-
istered justice, because I did not believe that
justice ever was administered in Nuremberg at
all. "You may depend the story is true," said
he; "you will notice, Herr American, that it is
so long since any was administered, the grass
has grown up out of and over the stones of the
pavement and made a smooth, mossy lawn of
it." He was so prompt with his reply that I
concluded some other American had made the
same objection as myself, having learned from
bitter experience that the goddess with the
scales was here, not only blindfolded but bound
hand and foot—perfectly powerless.
	Such is a brief sketch of the earliest history
of a city which has withstood the feudal and
more modern wars of Europe, and remains to-
day almost as ancient looking and as well pre-
served as it ever was. Of its authentic history
much that is interesting might be mentioned,
showing its great prosperity in the sixteenth
century, before the discovery of the sea route
to the Indies, its subsequent decline, and its
restoration again to the position which it now
occupies, as the chief city of manufacture and
trade in South Germany. But it will perhaps
be sufficient to add, by way of conclusion, that
it became one of the free towns of the empire
in the twelfth century, and received many im-
portant concessions from successive emperors,
to whom it furnished a residence. For the
next few hundred years it was one of the lead-
ing cities of Europe in the protection offered to
art, and in the activity and energy of its busi-
ness men. But during the Thirty Years' War
is suffered greatly, and during several decades
following it, the feeble rule of the patrician
families caused it to sink almost into insignifi-
cance, until, in 1806, when it became a Bav-
arian city, life again returned to it, and it be-
came and has since remained a flourishing com-
mercial centre. Since the Reformation it has 
always been a stronghold of Protestanism,
Melancthon having early introduced his prin-
ciples, and having received a warm welcome.
Certain relics in the museum, however, indicate
that the tortures of the Inqnisition were not
unknown here in early times, for there may be
seen the rack, the thumb screw, a sort of heavy
pillory, and a hollow cast iron figure filled
with spikes, called the Iron Virgin, into which
the heretic was thrust and fastened. A picture
of the guillotine on the ceiling of one of the
old buildings is significant also, showing that
that horrible instrument is not, as has been
generally supposed, of modern invention.
	The people are quiet and old-fashioned, but
industrious. The streets are narrow and
crooked but clean. The houses are irregular
and not handsome, though very picturesque,
and every few steps may be seen niches in the
walls where a little statue of the Virgin or
some favorite saint has been placed by the
pious inhabitant. In some of the old private
residences, in which it is said are fifty rooms
and even more, the red tiled roof, which seems
to start from the ground, and the eaves of
which are so low that a tall person actually
has to stoop to get into the door, runs up to
such a high peak and is filled all the way up
with such a bewildering number of the funny
little pointed windows, that one cannot question
the truth of the statement. The appearance
of these houses, whole streets of them, is very
odd, especially when ornamented, as most of
them are, with medallions in relief and images
of the most grotesque looking animals with the
most whimsical inscriptions. The main at-
tractions, however, are still the fortifications,
which are in almost perfect preservation. The
old town is surrounded by a heavy rampart,
strengthened here and there by towers of var-
ious shapes, and was in warlike times entered


by four gates, the massive towers defending
which still remain. Outside the wall is a dry
moat, thirty-five yards wide and thirty-five
feet deep, walled up securely and made doubly
strong wherever there was opportunity. The
material used is a species of coarse sandstone,
yielding readily to the action of the pick axe
but resisting admirably the effects of the
weather. Every conceivable advantage, in
matter of angles and projections was taken,
and it would seem that, before the days of im-
proved artillery, the place was really impreg-
nable. The most frequented and finest parts
of the works are where the small river, the
Pegnitz, enters and leaves the town, through
low, fantastic arches, and also in the neighbor-
hood of the castle. Since 1807, when many
other gateways were made into the city, the
moat, at such places, has been filled up.
Where it still remains in its original form it
now, however, serves a more peaceful purpose
though still keeping away a great enemy—
starvation—from the doors of many of the in-
habitants, who make use of its low, warm
sheltered location, for raising early vegeatables
and excellent fruit. One or two beer gardens
flourish in the shadow of its walls, and right at
the base of the old castle itself some enter-
prising Teuton has started a poultry house.
The cackling of the fowls is not very conducive
to the state of reverie and meditation which so
ancient a place might he expected to produce.
No one visits the city without taking a stroll
clear around the original battlements, and a
more interesting hour can scarcely be imagined.
A few mornings since I had just concluded the
round as the sun peeped over the dark pine
forrest on the east, and ten minutes afterwards
took train for another part of the empire I
bidding Nuremberg, as I now do the Expon-
ent, for a time “Goodbye.”
