ONE HUNDRED YEARS.
	The first day of June of this present year
marked the century hour of the birth of
Brigham Young, the founder of Utah, the
great pioneer, colonizer and organizer, and
for forty three years president of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Brigham Young was one of the greatest
men of the nineteenth century, perhaps the
greatest except Joseph Smith, certainly so


considered by the people among whom al-
most his entire life was spent. His was a
master-spirit, and a mind quick to grasp
and settle great and grave questions; he was
one who entered into detail and never
missed a point. He seemed to see every-
thing, small and great, and remembered
better than any man the writer has ever
met, every person, man woman and child,
whom he had ever seen before. He had a
most remarkable memory of incident and
was quick to discern character. He had a
wonderful faculty of controling and of
guiding people of all classes and national-
ties. One might fill volumes with inci-
dents of his life worth recording. It is well
to keep before the youth of Zion the attri-
butes and active deeds of this great man,
and to perpetuate his memory in every way
possible.
It was gratifying indeed to see so many
honor his hundredth anniversary, and to
hear the many encomiums of praise of his
life and character from the speakers on that
occasion. And as time rolls on more and
more will the people of the world be will-
ing to acknowledge his good works, his
deeds of valor, his humanitarianism and
his greatness of soul.
The program of exercises at Saltair on
June I, was very well rendered and the
music was specially fine; the weather was
very favorable. President Lorenzo Snow
was present and some of the Apostles, and
there were several of the sons and daugh-
ters of President Young. Of his wives
there were present, Margaret P. Young,
Eliza B. Young, and Amelia F. Young.
President Zina D. H. Young was detained
at home on account of the illness of some
of her grandchildren. There were many
from a distance, relatives and friends, and
it was pleasant to see the old friends
and to meet them, even for a few minutes.
Time rushes onward and ere long there will
be but a few people living who knew
Brigham Young personally.
Brigham Young was a true friend to
woman and he reposed confidence in
women, and was ever anxious to see our
sisters step forward in the line of progress
and advancement; he favored woman’s en-
tire freedom in all the walks of life.


