LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
March 30, 1901, at 2 o'clock, President M.
I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting commenced by singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing, "Let us 
pray, gladly pray." Minutes read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she would like all
the wards to pay in the money for the
building as soon as possible. President
Snow did not want the building begun till
$20,000 was received. Said she had visited
Granite Stake this morning, and they were
a thrifty Stake. Spoke of the vastness of
the work of the Relief Society and of the
responsibility of women as mothers,
we are never too old to learn our duty and
do it. Zion is growing and work is in-
creasing, be meek and united. It is the
wish of my heart to always teach the sis-
ters the truth. Spoke with much feeling
of the severe sickness of President George
Q. Cannon who was then in California.
	Counselor Stevenson said she continually
prayed to the Lord that she might see her
own faults and be blind to others. Read a
sketch from a lecture given by Prof. Mutch
on "The Wrong Way to Live." Said she
felt if the Saints had observed the Word of
Wisdom, what a blessed people they would 
be. Believed tea and coffee made people 
nervous.
	Sister Barton said she always felt bene-
fited when she attended these meetings.
She was thankful she knew there was a
God, and a doubt of such a being was
never in her mind.
	Sisters Corbett, Barnes, Wright, Hardy,
Horrocks, Colum, Gunn and Julia S.
Woolley spoke of the Word of Wisdom and
the love they had for the Relief Society.
	Sisters Ball, Ellis and Pond each bore
faithful testimonies of the truth.
	President M. I. Horne said she thought
it would be a good thing if missionaries could
be sent to visit the different branches of the
Relief Society. Spoke of the necessity of
women not aspiring to places they were not
prepared for. All are required to bring
what money they have for the building two
weeks from today, to the officers meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Annie
T. Hyde.
