ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 

The semi-annual conference of the N. W.
R. S. of St. Joseph Stake met in the Pima
meeting house, Friday, May 17, 1901, at
10 a. m and 2 p. m., President Elizabeth
Layton presiding.
Present on the stand were Elder L. John
Nuttall and President Emma S. Woodruff,
of Salt Lake City, who were visiting the
organizations in eastern and southern
Arizona; also the presiding priesthood of
the Stake, as well as the Bishops of several
wards.
After the usual opening exercises roll of
officers was called and minutes of Decem-
ber conference, 1900, was read and ap-
proved.
President Layton said we were greatly
blessed by having with us Elder Nuttall
and President Woodruff.
Sister Woodruff next addressed the con-
ference. Said she found the Saints here
about as they are in the north. Spoke in
regard to the building of the conjoint house
in Salt Lake City. Urged the sisters to
subscribe for the EXPONENT. Advised
mothers to look after their children and
train their daughters to do all kinds of
work.
Young ladies should attend the Relief
Society meetings and acquaint themselves
with the workings of the same. Relief
Society officers should consult and work
in harmony with their Bishops and Stake
officers and with the Stake Presidency.
The local organizations of the Stake,
which numbers twelve, were reported by
their respective presidents, with one or two
exceptions. All of them are doing a good
work and are desirous of improving.
Elder Nuttall said:  “It gives me
pleasure to visit again with you after an
absence of a little over a year. I can see
the advancement made by the sisters which
is very gratifying, though the average
attendance is not what it should be. The
sisters do not realize the privileges and
blessings of their membership in these
organizations or they would certainly be
more faithful in attending meetings. One
of the great objects of this organization is
that the members may train themselves and
become acquainted with the scriptures, that
they may be able to converse intelligently
with the Elders on Church matters, and be
qualified to teach the principles of the same
to their children. In connection with the
principles of the Gospel the sisters can ex-
change ideas about their household duties,
thereby aiding each other. Felt to thank
God that some of the branches were study-

[Column 2]
ing the articles of faith. If we work to
that end we can make the meetings just
what we want them to be. It is not only
a duty but a great privilege to assist with
our means in the carrying on of this work.
Teachers should visit with prayerful
hearts. Spoke of the storing of wheat.
Hoped we would continue testing the
methods of preserving wheat in this warm
climate. It has been made known to
prophets that a time of privation would
come upon the world and it is no more
than natural to suppose we will feel it.
President Young said he knew the breth-
ren would not store grain, but the sisters
would and we could depend upon them.
Conference adjourned until two p. m.
by singing and prayer.
Afternoon session met as per adjourn-
ment. Counselor Mary L. Ramsey was
the first speaker. She was thankful for
the visit of one of our brothers and sisters
from Salt Lake City. Said their visit was
greatly appreciated. If we get the spirit
of the work it is a pleasure for us to per-
form our duty. Asked God to bless us all
that we might be more diligent in per-
forming the labors assigned to us as
Relief Society members.
Sister Woodruff thought the organiza-
tion was greatly blessed in having the
Stake authorities sustain them by their
presence. Counseled mothers to teach
their children to pray as soon as they are
able to lisp a word; also to pay tithing. 
Control your children while young and
you will seldom have trouble with them
when thev grow older. Said it made no
difference to what position we are called so
long as we are working for the kingdom of
God.
Statistical and financial report of the
Stake was read by the secretary, Selina
Phillips.
President Layton made an illustration
of the sisters loaning wheat and urged
them to heed the counsel given by those in
authority in this regard.
The secretary presented the names of the
Stake and local officers, the names of Eliza
Nebeker and Virginia Major were added to
the list of the Stake aids, all being unani-
mously sustained in their respective posi-
tions.
President Andrew Kimball advised the
Stake officers to meet with each ward once
a month. Was pleased with the financial
status of the Relief Society, but there was
a falling away of the average attendance
which he was sorry to see.
Discouraged the storing of wheat in grist
mills, but rather, he said, build granaries
of your own for this purpose. “It is the
way we go to work whether our labor be-
comes a pleasure or a task. It is the duty
of officers to respect the priesthood at all
times, to counsel and advise with them in
all matters pertaining to the organization.
Elder Nuttall hoped we would remember
the points suggested by Sister Woodruff and
President Kimball. Gave some excellent
advice on the wiping out of iniquity, etc.,
said the sisters should uphold and sustain
the suffrage movement. This life is given
us that we may prepare for the future. We
have no right to judge the actions of our
brothers and sisters. This is God’s work
it is also ours. “May he bless you that
you may feel His power and influence in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.”
President Layton was gratified with the
instructions given. Hoped all associa-

[Column 3]
tions would take to themselves that part
which is best adapted to them.
Conference adjourned for six months.


