Lake City gave lessons in Parliamentary
Law and the art of expression, had an
opportunity not long since to speak before
the California Club in San Francisco and
gave her opinion of the “Economical and
Industrial Condition of Women in Utah.”
We are very grateful to Mrs. Lee and glad
that she had the courage to speak in a large
gathering of women of the world, the
fashionable society of the metropolis. The
newspapers reported Mrs. Lee thus: “She

[Column 2]
emphasized their immense purposefulness
and their ability to do mental as well as
physical drudgery. She attributed their
attainments to the religious influence which
caused them to do much public speaking,
to the fact that they had to be producers as
well as consumers, to the altitude in which
they live, which was conducive to mental
activity, and to the full freedom they en-
joyed under equal suffrage. She devoted
some time to telling of the progress made
in silk culture.”
	Mrs. Martindale, of England, and her
two talented daughters paid a visit to this
office during the month of May. We had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Martindale at
the International Council of women in
London, in 1899, and she presided at the
meeting in St. Martin’s Hall on the day
when Mrs. Susa Young Gates gave her
paper on Domestic Service, a subject in
which she is much interested. She felt
greatly disappointed at not meeting Mrs.
Gates here. The mother and daughters
had been making a tour of many countries,
visited the Holy Land, India, Australia,
New Zealand, New South Wales and the
most interesting Eastern cities of European
countries. Mrs. Martindale has a residence
in Brighton and is president of the Brigh-
ton Woman’s Liberal Association. One of
her daughters is a physician and the other
an inspector of public institutions for chil-
dren. The ladies visited all the historic
places of interest in the city and were
greatly pleased with what they saw and
heard while here.
	We were very agreeably surprised on
June 8 by a call from Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, of New York City. Mrs.
Dickinson was en route to Portland where she
is to give some lectures, thence to British
Columbia, where she has several appoint-
ments. She intends returning via Salt
Lake City, and will remain here two or
three days. Mrs. Dickinson is well known
in the United States and in foreign lands as
secretary of the King’s Daughters, an
International society which is one of the
largest organizations in the world, and has
done and is doing a magnificent work
among young women. Mrs. Dickinson
does much work through the medium of
the Silver Cross, a monthly magazine issued
by the Society of King’s Daughters. She
is the author of a number of books of both
prose and poetry. Our sisters know Mrs.
Dickinson through the National Council of
Women of the United States, of which she
was at one time president and is now one
of the honorary presidents. She is known
far and wide in educational work, gives
lectures in colleges and Universities on
various subjects of higher education.
When she returns here on her way home
we sincerely hope she may have the oppor-
tunity of addressing our young people in
one or more of the institutions of learning
in Utah, and of meeting more of our people
and visiting places of interest. Mrs. Mary
Lowe Dickinson ranks high among the
celebrated women of the age.
	Mrs. Josefa Humpal Zeman is another
celebrated woman who visited Salt Lake
recently and spent about ten days here.

[Column 3]
She was accompanied by her sister, Miss
Zeman and Mrs. Ema Zerzan. All of
them are Bohemians, and have established
themselves in Chicago where they have
lived ever since the Columbian Exposition.
Mrs. Zeman represented Bohemia at the
World’s Congress of Women in 1893, and
attracted a great deal of attention among
club and society women; directly after-
wards she founded a newspaper entitled
Zenske Lisly, the woman’s paper of Little
Bohemia, a part of Chicago where many
Bohemians reside and have their own clubs
and places of amusement, also churches.
The paper is entirely conducted by women
and is now issued weekly though started as
a monthly. Mrs. Zeman has a charming
personality. She enjoyed her visit to Salt
Lake very much. She spoke while here
most entertainingly to the Reapers Club on
Monday afternoon, May 26, and to the
Woman’s Press Club Friday evening, May
31. Below is what one of the Chicago
papers says of this charming Bohemian
woman:

	The personal history of the woman who founded
and now manages and edits Zenske Listy is inter-
esting. Seven years ago she was a delegate to the
World’s Congress of Women. She was born at
Pisek, Bohemia. Her father was a patriot of
intense devotion and became a voluntary exile
from his native land about the time Josefa was
four years old. The family came to America and
the foundations of the daughter’s education were
laid in the public schools of the United States. In
1881 they returned to Bohemia. Then the little
Josefa was given a taste of the native institutions.
She had a private tutor for awhile who awakened
in her an ardent admiration for the history, the
development and the civilization of her own land.
Afterwards she attended the high school of Pisek
and became confirmed in these deep-rooted emo-
tions of loyal affection to the fatherland.
	Her family returned again to America after
three years, and went to Chicago to reside.
Josefa desired above everything to respond to the
stimulating atmosphere of progress about her and
to assist her countrywomen to do likewise. There
appears to be that in the Slavic woman which
was formerly in the Huns—a mental unrest which
makes for a forward and upward movement of an
epoch-making profoundity.
	Of the Slavic race was Sonya Krukovsky
Kavalensky and Marie Bashkirtseff, both of whom
astounded the world with their masculine genius.

	There are many points of special interest
connected with this charming woman 
which we may give our readers at another
time. At the World’s Congress of
Women she came to be known as “the elo-
quent little Bohemian,” and was at that
time elected a vice-president of the Inter-
national Council of Women.
