[Column 1]
they rise or fall together, dwarfed or God-
like, bond or free.”  Since time immemor-
al women have been bread-winners, and
various have been the causes which have
forced them to gain their own livelihood,
and that of others dependent upon them;
and various have been the avenues to
Which they have had recourse.   So long as
woman’s ambition did not soar beyond that
of the household domestic, the seamstress
or washerwoman, little was thought or said
of her stepping beyond her province.  It
was all right for woman to be self-sustain-
ing so long as she did not work in the same
lines, nor receive the same wages for the
same work as her brothers.  For a long
time there was a struggle for the “survival
of the fittest,” but at present all true, just-
minded men and women seem willing to
concede to women equal rights, as far as
the labor question is concerned.  In those
professions where women are as well quali-
fied and efficient as men, they receive gener-
ally the same salaries. But the great ques-
tion seems to be centered on the influence it
has upon her home life, many declaring that
college graduates are disqualified as home-
makers.  They say that in nearly all cases
they marry late in life, and often not at all,
and often when they do marry, they are
not good wives and mothers.  As yet the
question is tentative, as it is only recently
that they have been granted the privilege
of equal opportunities in education and the
woman college graduate has yet to prove
her efficiency as a home-maker.
    But to the thinking mind, it would seem
that the sacred requirements of motherhood
would naturally demand all the advantages
of the highest education.  And if that girl
or woman has faithfully followed her col-
lege course day by day and year by year,
with patience and fortitude, ever with the
instinctive object uppermost in her heart of
making herself an honorable and useful
woman, who can gainsay that the knowl-
edge thus gained—the discipline of the
mind, the correct habits of thought and
action so long and patiently pursued, will
make her a better, a wiser and a more com-
petent wife and mother?
    By considering for a moment the causes
which lead women into the domain of pro-
fessional life, we find the causes of incen-
tives as varied as are the industries in
which she may engage.  It may at times
be a worldly, vain or inordinate ambition
that prompts her heroic efforts.  But could
we look within the soul and know the
spi[-]it promptings, we would, almost with-
out exception, find it is an innate knowl-
edge, a desire for more extended usefulness,
or, perchance, dire necessity that urges her
into the professional field of labor.  Often-
times it is this very mother-love that is the
well-spring of the very act that is said to
disqualify her for these sacred duties.
    Oh, the work and struggle of these
mothers—first that their children might be,
and then that they may continue to be!
Do we not find this condition throughout
all the regions of civilization?  Women as

[Column 2]
widows, women separated from their hus-
bands from various causes, and almost in-
variably the children cling to the mother
and she must be the main prop and stay.
Then shall woman regulate her activities to
routine drudgery, when she is capable of
better things?  When by more intelligently
directing her energies she can accomplish
more for her children than by remaining
constantly beneath the portals of her own
home?  And it stands without argument that
mothers as typewriters, school teachers, or
even as lawyers and doctors, can do more
for their children than those who work from
sun to sun in other ways, for half the re-
muneration.
    True, it might well be said, that the
proper order of things should be for the
father to be the bread-winner, and the
mother the home-maker; for the ideal home
is consecrated by both paternal and maternal
love, and its sweetest music the prattle of
little children. But inscrutable are life’s
experiences!  Oftentimes woman must
meet the exigencies of the case alone and
unaided, she must do and dare, lift the
burden and look to heaven for strength and
light and wisdom.  The true womanly
woman will make the best wife, and, mother,
whate’er may be her vocation.

         “We need not wealth or splendor,
	    Wide hall nor lordly dome; 
	  The good, the true, the tender—
	    These form the wealth of home.”

    What we most need are broad-minded.
women who love their husbands and their
children, those who know and love duty.
Such women will perform faithfully their
duty nearest them.  Such women, even in
professional life, when by necessity they
earn a livelihood, will devote more time
and careful thought to their families than
the unprincipled woman who has wealth
and all her time at her disposal.  “The
greatest boon, the deepest tenderness a wife
and mother can bestow is to help her loved
ones to their duty.”  ’Tis the mother’s
gentle hand that twines and weaves the
roses of life into existence.

	  Oft we ask ourselves the question, 
	     What is best for us to do,—
	  What soul-work or hand vocatton,
	     Best for women to pursue ?

	  Shall we be the dolls of fashion,
	     Loved and flattered for awhile,
	  Wither ’neath man’s sterner passion,
	     Live again in fonder smile?

	  Shall we live for vain ambition,
	     Live for friends of wealth and power, 
	  Feast on words of adulation.
	     On the friendship of an hour ?

    	  Shall we live for public duties, 
	     To reform the low and vile,
	  Cultivate angelic beauties,
	      In those minds now filled with guile?

	  Shall we live for home’s fair altar,
	     Ne’er to pass beyond its shrine,
	  In this purpose never falter,
	      Let all thoughts around it twine ?

	  To these queries what’s the answer ?
	     Duty! Duty seems to call;
	  Let all thoughts and feelings center,
	     On stern duty first of all.

[Column 3]
	  Know it, love it, act it bravely,
	      Whereso’er the path may lead;
For ’twill bring most perfect pleasure.
	     And at last the richest meed.
