SAN FRANCISCO RELIEF SOCIETY.
   Minutes of the Relief Society meeting
held at the Latter-day Saints California
mission headquarters, 939 Golden Gate
Ave., San Francisco, California, April 19,
1901, President E. H. Nye presiding, who
has for the last four years and a half pre-
sided over the California mission.
   President Nye’s wife, Sister Harriet
Nye, was appointed missionary to the
California mission by President Wilford
Woodruff, which position she has honored
up to the present time, of her release.
   President Nye called the sisters together
for the purpose of reorganizing the Relief
Society, Sister Ida M. Sarll having ten-
dered her resignation as president, and said
resignation having been accepted.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson, who succeeds
President Nye as president of the mission,
was present and assisted in the reorganiza-
tion of the Society.    The opening hymn
was “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.’’
Prayer by Sister Rawlison. Second hymn,
“How firm a foundation.”
   President Nye made a short speech and
stated the obligations the mission was
under to the San Francisco Relief Society,
and that the purpose of the present meet-
ing was to reorganize the society. He also
gave some very pertinent instructions and
kindly advice.
   Elder Joseph E. Robinson spoke a few
moments after which President Nye pre-
sented the name of Sister Mary Hughes, of
1715 Mason St., as president of the Relief
Society, who was unanimously sustained.
   Sister Hughes expressed her willingness,
with the help of the Lord would do her duty.
   The name of Sister Harriet Von Den
Bergh, of 526 A. 6th St., was presented as
first counselor, who was unanimously sus-
tained.    She signified her willingness to
accept the office.
   The name of Sister Elizabeth Rawlinson,
of 1219 Lombard St., was proposed as
second counselor.    She also was unani-
mously sustained and expressed her will-
ingness to serve and her appreciation for
the confidence reposed in her.
   Next the name of Sister Mina A. Towne,
of 305 Larkin St, was presented as secretary
of the Relief Society, who also was unan-
mously sustained and she also signified
her willingness to act and her appreciation
of the trust reposed in her.
   The name of Sister Young, of Alameda,
was presented for treasurer.   She was
unanimously sustained, and expressed her
willingness to serve and her desire to per-
form her duty faithfully.
   The sisters were then set apart by
President Nye and Elder Robison, alter-
nately.
   President Nye gave some other instruc-
tions and the meeting adjourned.   Closing
hymn, “Praise God from whom all bless-
ing s flow.” Benediction, Joseph E. Robin-
son. Next meeting wes appointed for
Friday, May 3, at 2 o’clock p. m.
