AROUND POCATELLO STAKE.

	On Monday morning, April 22, the Stake
officers of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A. started on a tour around the Stake,
making the journey by team.
	There were in the party President Eliza
M. Oram, Counselor Matilda Smith and
Secretary Martha M. Scadden, of the Stake
Board of the Relief Society. We visited
eight wards in the Stake, but owing to
disease prevalent in the remaining wards
we were unable to visit them. We traveled
all day, reaching Rockland Monday eve-
ning.
	On Tuesday we proceeded to the meet-
ing house to meet our appointment. At 2
p. m. meeting convened with twenty eight
in attendance. Singing, "How firm a 
foundation." Prayer was offered by
Sister Florence Benyon. Singing, "Earth
with her ten thousand flowers.
	Counselor Matilda Smith was the first
speaker. She exhorted all to live lives of
Saints and to be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God. The sisters should
keep consecrated oil in the house as a pre-
ventive against the diseases that are
abroad. Exhorted all to seek a spirit of
love and charity towards each other. Spoke
on the necessity of attending to our prayers
and bore her testimony. Spoke against
card playing.
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness
and on tithing. Also spoke on the responsi-
bility of raising families in the ways of
God.
	Sister Edith Harrison spoke on the 
efficacy of prayer; also on home-making,
exhorting the sisters to make home a de-
sirable place where the children would
seek for their enjoyment.
	Sister Helen Oram spoke of loving one
another and doing good to those whom
we dislike most.
	The ward officers also spoke and felt de-
sirous to do their duty and obey counsel.
	We next returned to Pocatello and held
meeting with the Relief Society of Pocatello
Ward, Friday, April 26. After opening
exercises Counselor Matilda Smith spoke
on the principle of faith and of exercising
more faith than we do in cases of sickness,
and of the efficacy of the consecrated oil.
	Counselor Josephine Rosengreen felt she
was blessed in being able to attend this
meeting. We all have a mission to per-
form and could do much good or much
harm. We should be prayerful and seek to
do as much good as possible.
	Corresponding Secretary Annie Bird felt
we had great privileges and responsibilities
upon us. Should school ourselves and
prepare to become exalted in heaven. Our
actions will mark our record and we should
live to make a good record.
	President Oram spoke on the necessity of
having the Woman's Building in Salt Lake
City. Bore testimony of the Gospel and of 
the gifts that follow the believer. We
should do good for those whom we most
dislike. Exhorted all to respect the priest-
hood.
	We next met with Dempsey Ward, Sun-
day, April 28. Sister Smith was the first
speaker and felt to encourage a labor with
those who do not attend Spoke on the ten
cent fund, also spoke on the correct training
of children in the Gospel and of teaching
them to pray and to be obedient.
	President Oram suggested that a mis-
sionary labor be taken by the presidency of
each ward and that they visit every mem-
ber. Exhorted all to receive the teachers
kindly. Spoke upon the Word of Wisdom.
	Secretary M. Scadden encouraged the
girls to become initiated in the Relief
Society work, they could help much in
caring for the sick.
	Held meeting with Cambridge Ward
Relief Society, Monday, April 29. Presi-
dent Oram spoke against evil speaking of
one another. Encouraged the teachers to
be energetic. All should inculcate the gift
of faith, also spoke of the Woman's
Building. Encouraged attendance to all
spiritual duties. We should use wisdom
and not run into contagious diseases, but
see that none are in need.
	Counselor Smith spoke of the mission of
the Relief Society and exhorted all to re-
spect and obey those in authority.
	We next met with Woodland Ward
Relief Society, Wednesday, May 1. The
first part of meeting was devoted to busi-
ness, as there were some vacancies to fill.
	Counseler Smith spoke on being forgiving
and charitable and of being exemplary be-
fore our children.
	President Oram spoke on the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society by the Prophet
Joseph, also on the necessity of unity and
against fault finding with those in authority.
	Sisters M. Smith, H. Oram and Edith
Harrison sang "O my Father."
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke on the mis-
sion of the Relief Society and exhorted all
to attend to their duties. Urged teachers
to labor with the young ladies and en-
courage them to become members of the
Relief Society.
	Met with Marsh Center Relief Society,
Thursday, May 2. Counselor Matilda
Smith felt to encourage those who had
come out in the storm to attend this
meeting. Spoke on tithing and training
children in the principles of the Gospel and
teaching them to be obedient.
	President Oram exhorted the sisters to
attend all sacrament meetings. Spoke on
the efficacy of consecrated oil in sickness.
	Counselor Smith sang "The Fisherman
and his Child."
	Sister Williams, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
felt we should teach the children to sing.
Should obey counsel, and receive office as
a blessing and not as a burden.
	President Oram exhorted all to study
and not seek office.
	Met with the Relief Society of Garden
Creek, Friday, May 3. Counselor Smith
spoke on the necessity of a conference
house in Salt Lake City, also on the neces-
sity of keeping oil and exercising faith in
the ordinances for the sick. 
	Secretary M. Scadden spoke of unity,
prayer and forgiveness and exhorted all to
sustain their officers.
	Sister Douglas, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
encouraged all to attend their meetings and
help the presidents.
	Sisters Nellie Oram and Edith Harrison,
of the Y. L. M. I. A., sang, "Nay, speak 
no ill."
	President Oram spoke on cleanliness and
order and touched on many important
subjects. Enjoyed doing her duty, had 
been blessed in paying tithing.
	Met with McCammon Ward Relief
Society, Saturday, May 4, at 11 a. m.
After opening exercises Counselor Smith 
said she had attended conference in Salt
Lake City and heard President Snow speak
on the increase of tithe payers Spoke to
some officers just sustained, and exhorted
them to be diligent in doing their duty and 
regard their office as a blessing.
	President Oram spoke of the high calling
of a teacher. All should be united and not
stir up strife. They should settle all 
Relief Society difficulties in the society and 
not trouble the Bishops with them. Meet-
ing closed with singing "O my Father."
Benediction by Julia Hall.
	The ward officers of each society felt
well and desired to do their duty.
	Immediately after meeting in McCammon
we started homeward, reaching Pocatello
again at 9:30 p m. We all felt well and
had very much enjoyed our trip and our 
labors, and we sincerely trust that some
little good has been accomplished by this
labor in this Stake of Zion.
	May God bless the Relief Society and
Relief Society workers everywhere is the
earnest prayer of your sisters in the cause of 
truth.
			Martha Scadden, Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.


