		A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

	Sarah Martitia Allen Pearson died at Draper,
Salt Lake Co., Utah, February 28, 1901, at the
age of 52 years. She was a good mother, a pru-
dent wife, a woman of sterling qualities aud a firm
believer in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. She was a 
member of the Draper Relief Society, although
her labors were of a private nature. She was a 
peace maker in very deed. Wise in judgment and
of a quiet disposition, but one greatly beloved by
her family and friends.
	She was a descendant of the old Revolutionary
stock of Virginia and South Carolina. She was
the fourth child of Andrew Jackson Allen, of
Kentucky, who was one of the pioneers of Utah in
1847, and Delilah Andrus Allen, of Illinois.
	Her grandfather, Rial Allen, was born in 1791
in South Carolina, three years after South Caro-
lina accepted the present constitution, which
changed it from a royal province to one of the
thirteen original states, and during the second
year of Washington's first administration. He
was the son of Samuel Allen, of North Carolina,
who assisted in the struggle for liberty, and sup-
posed to be of English origin dating back to the
colony Albermarle, whose settlers came from
Virginia prior to 1663. 
	Archibald Andrus, her mother's father, was born
in Halifax, Virginia, on the 9th of January, 1771.
He was the son of Eleazer Andrus, of Virginia, of
Scottish descent.
	Sister Pearson was born February 19, 1849, in
Salt Lake City. She with her parents were num-
bered among the first settlers of Draper. She
grew to womanhood having the same or similar
experiences to those of her forefathers and inci-
dental to the early settlers of Utah. She received
her education principally under the late Dr. J. R.
Park. On the 17th of March, 1878, she was mar-
ried to Henry Pearson, in Salt Lake City. On the
24th of December, 1869, her first child was born,
Henry Allen Pearson, whose childhood was passed
at Draper, and who, at the age of seventeen 
years, graduated at the Deseret University of
Utah. He entered the Naval Academy at An-
napolis, Md., two years later.
	At the end of six years he graduated and entered
the United States Navy, and has risen from cadet
to lieutenant. He served with Admiral Dewey
in Oriental waters at the outbreak of the war with
Spain, and was in charge of the Zafric which cut
the cable that connected Manila with the outside
world.
	Since that time eight other children have been 
born to her ; two daughters and six sons, seven of
whom survive her. Her eldest daughter died one
year and one month before the mother, leaving a


little grandson one year old. This great shock so
affected her health that she never recovered, but
grieved and mourned for her daughter up to the
time of her own demise. She leaves a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	Sad are our hearts, dear sister, without you, but
we feel comforted when we think of the noble
work left here on earth as a monument of honor
and praise to your memory.
	Thou hast been true to the trust our Heavenly
Father placed in thee. Thou hast never shirked a
duty or complained of the hardness of thy lot.
Thou hast set a grand example for thy family and
friends to imitate, and we will think of thee hence-
forth as not in the dark tomb but rather dressed in
thy heavenly robes, mingling with the good and
just awaiting to receive those dear to thee as they
are prepared and called home to the mansions of
glory.
	This is lovingly dedicated to her husband and
children by her sister,
	Delilah E. Allen Dudley.


