EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A meeting of the daughters of the Utah
pioneers was held at the residence of Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde, in this city, on Thursday,
April 11, 1901, invitations having been
previously issued to a number of the
daughters. A society was organized in a
preliminary way and a Committee on Con-
stitution appointed.	Mrs. Annie T. Hyde
was elected president; Maria V. Dougall
and Alice K. Smith, vice-presidents; Alice
M. Horne, secretary;. Julia P. 	M.
Farnsworth, corresponding secretary, and
Minnie H. James, treasurer.	Since that
time other meetings have been held and the
Constitution framed and adopted.	There
is to be a celebration of a suitable nature,
possibly on the memorable 24th of July.
The objects are to perpetuate the memory
of the heroic pioneer forefathers and fore-
mothers and to promote good-fellowship
among the posterity of these renowned
veterans.
	At the meeting of the Reapers’ Club,
Monday, June 10, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
gave an entertaining talk on her trip to
England, France, Scotland and Wales. She

(Column 2)
had evidently traveled with her eyes open
and made the places of which she spoke
seem very real. 	Mrs. Thomas visited old
churches and described them well, and she
told us of people who interested her.	She
spoke charmingly of Paris and her im-
pressions of that wonderful city, and of the
French people whom she greatly admires in
many ways. She sort of compared the
English and American working people
making it very realistic. She thoroughly
enjoyed seeing Sir Henry Irving in the
play of Robespierre, and on another occasion
was fortunate to be present at one of his
readings, which she appreciated very much.
Mrs. Thomas is a delightful talker and the
club feel her presence in their midst again
a great pleasure, and joyfully welcome
her home again from her long sojourn
abroad.
	The conference of the Young People’s
Associations that convened in this city on
June 2 and 3 was one of great significance,
and the attendance was very large indeed.
The veteran president of the Church was
present and gave the opening address,
which was very gratifying to the assembly.
It was also a great satisfaction to hear the
young women speak in the large Taber-
nacle as well as the young men.	It really
made one feel as though this were indeed
the woman’s century.	The great organ
pealing forth its wonderful tones with the
fine singers, both men and women, added
more to the grandeur of the services than
one at a distance would imagine.	As a
people we are highly favored to have the
great Tabernacle and the wonderful organ
which adds so much to the loftiness and
superb effect of such occasions. Certainly a
conference such as this has been must have
an uplifting tendency upon the associations
as a whole, and the spiritual benefit should,
and one would think, must be far-reaching
and make a lasting impression.
	The reception given by the Y. M. and
Y. L. Associations at the Bee Hive House
on the evening of June 4, 1901, snrpassed
all others of its kind in some of its main
features. The house itself is historic, built
at an early period by the founder of Utah,
Brigham Young, and at that time
Governor of the Territory, and it is where
many parties and dinners were given to
distinguished people during that period as
well as afterwards on many occasions while
President Young was living.	At present it
is the residence of President Lorenzo Snow,
whose life and labors are a part of Church
history, and who, at the advanced age of
eighty-seven years, still maintains his
vitality and energies with all his faculties
in a truly wonderful degree. His presence
at the reception was a great attraction and
hundreds of young people from a distance
had the opportunity of meeting him person-
ally and exchanging greetings, which was
doubtless fully appreciated.	It was sur-
prising to see with what genuine en-
joyment he entered into the general spirit
of the program, particularly the musical
part. The decorations of fresh flowers were
exquisite and a perfect delight to flower-
lovers. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, president of
of the great association of young women
was also present and though not able to
take part in the program it was a pleasure
to have her in the midst of the young ladies
in whose interest she has labored so faith-
fully and traveled so extensively twenty-
one years this June.	It is probable every


Stake of Zion was represented in that
gathering of five hundred and over. Ice
cream, strawberries, cake and lemonade
were served to the entire company by a
bevy of beautiful girls. Zion is growing
rapidly and the youth are advancing in
wisdom, knowledge and understanding.

	The Tenth Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting on Sunday evening,
May 26. The meeting house was crowded
to overflowing. The floral decorations
were profuse and very beautiful, great 
bowls of sego lilies and many varieties of
wild flowers, also roses, pansies, peonies
and honeysuckles in abundance. The fra-
grance was like that of a flower garden,
but the beautiful children surpassed even 
the lovely flowers, and the order was excel-
lent. Mrs. Paul, the president, possesses in
a rare degree the essential qualifications to 
interest and attract the children. She pre-
sided with grace and dignity and has un-
doubtedly in the short time she has had
charge won the love of the little people of
the ward in her care. The exercises were
well rendered and the selections for the pro-
gram were so carefully arranged as not to
be tiresome to the children. President
Camila Cobb and her counselors, with one
or two aids, were present, also Mrs. E B. 
Wells, Bishop Spiers, Prof. J. H. Paul,
Mrs. Elizabeth Paul, (president of the
Tenth Ward Relief Society) and a large
number of the parents of the children. The
Book of Mormon exercise given was one of
the best features of the evening and reflected
great credit on the part of those in charge
as well as the little people who gave it.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. C. Cobb and
Bishop Spiers each made a few remarks
commending the work done and good order
observed during the meeting. The Pri-
mary Association deserves our fostering
care, and parents cannot be too mindful of
those who are giving time, thought and 
care to their children, training them in the 
spirit of the Gospel and in those things that
tend to right and righteousness.


