	FROM A FRENCH WOMAN.

	About four years ago Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, a distinguished French lady,
visited our capital. She came in connec-
tion with Gentile philanthropic enter-
prise, but was very much interested in the
Relief Society of our Church, and expressed
herself to this effect to the First Presidency
with whom she obtained an interview.
She resides in Wyoming and since her re-
turn she has opened her house to the
Saints for both religious and social func-
tions.
Hearing that a young Mormon sheep-
herder was very sick, with no one to nurse
him but the cattlemen upon the range, she
took him to her home and cared for him
with the greatest solicitude, but in spite of
her efforts he passed away on Fobruary 3,
1901.
	Mrs. Cleophas having been left a widow
at an early age, she was well able to sym-
pathize with the young wife of the deceased
man, and being a poetess, she wrote the
following lines to Sister Park. We give
the original and translation.

	In remembrance of James Park, dedicated to
his widow by their devoted friend, Mrs. Eugenie
Cleophas, who nursed him during his last days
upon this earth.

	A si grande douleur, hélas que peut on dire?
	L'âme brisée se tord en un immense emoi!
	Il semble que jamais on ne pourra sourir
	Car le coeuré perdu, coeur éspardu regarde avec effroi
	Au fond de l'avenir la triste solitude
	Qui atteint pour tonjours celui qui reste en bas
	C'est un morne abandon, une âpre solitude
	Qui vous saisit, vous garde et ne vous quitte pas.

	Quande on s'est tant aimé! se sentir seul sur terer
	Comprendre que jamais on ne se verra plus
	Ne plus se voir! veiller et pleurer solitaire
	C'est l’ombre et le nèant. Et cēux qu òn a pérdus
	Froíds et silancieux, dans leur cercueil de marbre
	Ne verront plus nos pleurs et notre desespoir
	Lorsque le soir venu alors que la nuit tarde
	Vous pensons à l'absent, et renions l'espoir!

	Ah ! 1'espoir nous l'avions jusqu’au dernier sourire
	Du cher mourant. Dans son regarde déjǎ glacè
	Maigre tout, nous cherchions a’y lire.
	Un rayon d'esperance mais Dieu avait placè
	La main sur cette tête, et malgré nos prieres
	La froide mort l'apris; en nous laissant brisés
	Annéanti, perdu, le front dans la poussiére
	Livied, l’oeil atone, en songeant au passè ! 

	Ce passé disparu dans la nuit de la tombe, 
	Se présente à nos yeux entouré de bonheur
	D'illusions, de paix! Et quand tout d'uncoup tombe
	La foudre qui écrase et détruit notre coeur,
	Nons restons ètourdis sous la main qui nous fappe.
	Cherchant ce qui a purendre Dieu si cruel
	Doutant de sa bontè, car son but nous èchappe
	Mais lui avec douceur il nous montre le Ciel.

	C'est là que le mourant en quittant cette terre
	Est allé nons attendre, et d'un bonheur parfait
	Il jouit pour tonjonrs, sans douleur, ni misère
	Sans souci d'avenir. Et quand il nons laissait
	C'ètait pour habiter la céleste demeure
	Que Dieu donne à tons ceux qui souffre ici bas
	Il est lui bien heureux! O pauvre femme plewre
	Ton époux envolé; mais ne regrette pas.

	Pour lui mille ennuis de cette vie de peine
	Où chaque homme semblable au galérien maudit
	Dispute chaque jour son pain, et se déméne
	Pour trouver le bonheur qui constàmment le fuit !
	Laise le maintenant apés tant de souffrance
	Gôuter un doux repos, infini; éternal;
	Et Dieu dans sa bonté te donne l'esperance
	Une fois tout fini, de le rejoindre au Ciel !

	Words cannot paint a sorrow such as this,
	The wounded spirit, writhing as in pain,
	Sees in the future, one dark, long abyss,
	And feels that it can never smile again,
	With startled eyes it penetrates the space, 
	And views the straightened form within the gloom;
Lying alone, so far from her he loved,
	Within the narrow limits of the tomb.

	When one has known a husband’s tender love,
	To face alone a future all unknown,
	Through all the trials that the years may bring,
	To feel that one must watch and weep alone !
	While he, upon whose strength we loved to lean,
	Lies cold and silent in the marble tomb,
	Sees not our tears, nor heeds our wild despair—
	Hope leaves us as we contemplate our doom !
[column 2]
	Hope leaves us ! we who clung to hope so long,
	Aud would not see death in the glaring eye,
	To his last smile our soul responsive cried,
	"Courage, dear heart, stern death shall pass us by."
	But God our Father laid a gentle hand,
	Upon the fevered brow, and so he died;
	Leaving us crushed, our foreheads in the dust,
	So stunued that even tears were then denied.

	With steadfast gaze we looked into the past.
	Where memory's store-house opened to our view
	Visions of peace and joy ineffable,
	To which we now must bid a long adieu—
	And when at last we realized the blow,
	Which like a thunder-bolt had wrecked our life, 
	We asked—does God in mercy send stern death,
	To separate a husband from a wife ?

	But God, our Father, bade us raise our eyes,
	The veil was lifted to our wondering sight,
	And him we mourned as dead we then beheld
	In realms of perfect bliss and pure delight
	Freed from his suffering, sorrow, pain and woe,
	Where earthly cares no longer chafe or fret—
	It is enough ! poor wounded, sorrowing soul,
	Weep if thou wilt, but canst thou know regret?

	No more for him the fight for daily bread,
	That chains man like a slave to dull routine.
	No more for him the fight for happiness
	And earthly joys that vanish like a dream !
	Thou wouldst not break into his quiet rest,
	Nay, rather wouldst thou face the world alone !
	May God in mercy give thee that sweet hope,
	To meet again where partings are unknown.

