00AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
(Continued.)
The next spring we fenced a field and
planted some potatoes and wheat and were
beginning to feel at home. But that fall
(1857) word came to us that all the mission-
aries were to come home on account of the
threatening trouble at home. We now
set to work gathering up what we could and
preparing to start home. Some of the peo-
ple had sold their teams and wagons and
could not return, so they remained. We
took what we could and left the rest, and


September 1st found us ready to start for
Salt Lake City. The weather was cold and
the snow made it unpleasant for us. We
landed at Kaysville, November 1st. We
had no home to go to and winter was
coming. But we secured two small rooms
and settled down. Brother Layton was
called to go to Salmon river to assist the
people from that place, so we were left
alone again. Shortly after he started Bishop
Allen Taylor came and told us that we
must fix up our wagons and be ready to
start south in about two or three weeks.
We told him that we did not know what to
do, but that we would do the best we could
to get ready. Brother Layton came home
in about six weeks and when we told him
about it he said that he could not get ready
to start before early spring, as the teams
were worn out and there was not
much feed for them. But he finally decided
to go and we started not knowing where we
were going. This was the move.
When we reached Salt Lake City we
stopped there a short time. Our next camp-
ing place was at Utah Lake there the wind
and sand made it very unpleasant for us, so
we did not stay there very long, but moved
on to American Fork.
About the last of June word was received
for the people to return home. Brother
Layton with part of his family returned
immediately to see after the things and the
remaining part came along about the sixth
of July, tired and worn out. On the
eleventh I had another son born, whom we
called Ezra William. Soon after harvest
we bought a place known as the prairie
house, to which place we moved and
lived about a year. Then I went to live
alone in Kaysville, where I lived alone
during the winter. In the spring of 1860
we bought a farm of a man by the name of
George Allen, and on the fourth of April I
moved to that place and lived there alone
until the fall. October 17, 1860, another
son was born to me and we gave him the
name of David Edwin. In the spring of
1861 Brother Layton built a large house and
moved part of his family together. He
moved me to Salt Lake where I lived six
months and then returned to Kaysville,
and then moved down on the old farm
where Sarah and I lived,and the other three
wives, Isabelle, Caroline and Rose, had
homes elsewhere in Kaysville.
On January 25th I had another daughter
born and she was named Ann Barnes.
That year, October 25, 1863, Sarah Martin
Layton died, the cause being a cancer in
her breast. That was a hard blow to us.
all. She left two sons and one daughter,
four having preceded her to the great be-
yond. Her death was a very hard thing
for me to overcome, as we had been friends
from childhood, we had been more than
sisters. She was of a kind and gentle dis-
position, and unselfish in her nature. She
suffered untold pain for several months be-
fore death came to her relief. She was a
very worthy woman and her place has
never been filled. After her death I did not
live with any of the rest of the family, I
had several different homes. Her oldest son
lived with me until a short time before his
marriage, and when he left his younger
brother came and lived with me. They
seemed to be peacemakers wherever they
went.
I lived on the farm about four years.
While there in the old home, and on the
4th of September, 1865, my last child, a
daughter was born, and we called her Sarah
Elizabeth. I did some moving around until
1872, when I moved to the fort and have
lived there since. But many and varied
are the changes I have passed through, but
the Lord gave me strength to hold fast to
the Iron Rod for which I have ever been
thankful.
November 25, 1868 my mother died at
the age of seventy-four. Dropsy was the
cause of her death. She was buried in the
Kaysville cemetery. We missed her very
much, but we realized that parting must
come to all, though it is hard to part with
loved ones. My father lived alone in the
old home and cared for his garden, his
stock and fowls. He was an early riser and
always retired early; he did not know what
sickness was, and was always happy and
contented.
When I settled in Kaysville I began
dress making and worked very hard for a
living and to sustain my family. At the
organization of the Relief Society I was
chosen to be second counselor to my sister
who was chosen president. She occupied
that position until her death, June 5, 1871.
At that time Sister Mary Ann Hyde suc-
ceeded her, and I was chosen first
counselor.
In 1873 my eldest daughter learned tele-
graphy and took a position in the Utah
Central office and worked there five years.
In December of that year my eldest son was
married to Mary Egbert. He lived here
until January 1875 when he went with Lot
Smith as a missionary to Arizona.
Dress making was my work most of the
time, and the Lord blessed me in my work.
I made and mended clothes and cared for my
children. I had no one to give me a word
of encouragement or comfort, for I had
long since learned not to put my trust in
the arm of flesh. I knew that the principle
of plural marriage was true, and that I had
entered it of my own free will and choice,
with the determination to serve the Lord,
and was willing to bear my cross as best I
could. Many things crossed my lonely
path that were very unpleasant, but I be-
lieve that the race is not to the swift nor
the battle to the strong, but to those who
endure to the end. Had not my Father in
heaven had a watch care over me, I do not
know where I might have drifted had not
some unseen power watched me. But He
knew the many sacrifices I had made in
many ways to hold on to my children, and
He has given me the strength as I have
needed it so far. Many a time I was
tempted to do things that to me seemed
would bring happiness, but my own soul
told me that they would grieve the Spirit
of the Lord, and I was restrained, for I
knew that if I did as He commanded He
would not cast me off. I do not take any
of the credit to myself for not taking the
wrong course. The Lord was ever mindful
of me and did not suffer any more tempta-
tions to come along than He gave me
strength to bear up against.
In 1878 my daughter Mary Ann married
George Swan, and Ann B. took the position
in the telegraph office at Woods Cross. My
father died on the 9th of September, 1880,
at the age of ninety years, an honored and
well respected man. Thus one by one my
friends dropped off. I felt then that I was
alone in the world, as my father, mother
and only sister had gone from this world to
rest in peace until they should be awakened
on the morning of the resurrection. Then
we hope to meet to part no more.
I could write many pages telling of the
trials and heart-piercing scenes, that I
have passed through; but it would do no
good. When I put off mortality they can
all be buried with me. I can say with the
poet:

“But out of all the Lord has brought me by His
love,
And still He does His help afford to hide my life
above.”

I have learned in my own experience
that it is better to suffer wrong than it is to
do wrong. We must bear our own cross
and work out our own salvation. Exper-
ence is a good teacher, but he is severe. I
have many times been sick nigh unto death
but through the laying on of hands and the
prayer of faith I have been raised up.

(To be continued.)


