[Column 1]
A FAITHFUL WOMAN.
Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Our Relief Society in Fairview, Utah,
feel that more than a mere notice of the
death of our beloved president is due to
the memory of her worthy life, therefore
they send you her biography that after you
have made whatever changes you desire, it
may be published in the Exponent.
	Mary A. Pritchett was born July 4, 1819
in North Carolina. At the age of two
years her parents removed to Virginia. The
rest of her life up to the time of her coming
West was spent in the grand old historic
state. All the Southern fire and chivalry
peculiar to her race whose ancestors were
French, coursed through her veins. In
1839 she was married to Joseph M Pritch-
ett, a well to do Virginian planter, and be-
came the mother of sons and daughters,
eight of whom grew to maturity.
	The Gospel was brought to her by
Jed. Grant, Joshua Grant, Joseph Park, D.
O. Rideout and Hamilton.
	At the time the War was devastating the
South, and they living in the confederate
State, were called upon to furnish patriots
for the rebel army and some of her sons
were “soldier boys.”
	After receiving the Gospel herself, her
strongest desire was that the hearts of her
children be touched, and that they all
gather to Zion. One thing that the better
enabled her to succeed in gathering her fam-
ily to Utah, was that the horrors of war
were upon and all about them; and though
the sons fought for the South, and their
hearts were naturally loyal to their own
district, yet they felt that their cause was
hopeless, and having been pressed into
service by not the most law-abiding of their
fellows, they were very anxious to bid
good bye to the ranks. All but one served
his term, and that one bid good bye to his
pards one day in the woods and traveled
westward, just three days before the terri-
ble fighting at Richmond began.
	Her husband was enabled to dispose of
his property and prepare for the journey
“across the plains” in the autumn of ’64,
going to Ohio where she was to join him
two months later at Portsmouth. Accord-
ingly herself and two youngest children, a
boy and a girl aged respectively 15 and 13,
and a married son with his wife and two
babes, and a married daughter with three
very small children, began the overland
journey.
	Their outfit was an excellent one for the
time, consisting of two good teams and
wagons well laden with excellent food,
clothing and bedding, one extra horse to
ride and ten head of stock.
	They had proceeded but about 73 miles
on their journey when a band of Guerrillas

[Column 2]

relieved them one evening of all their
loose stock and all their horses, save the one
the boy rode, while herding; not only that
but they caught the boy with a rope that
they did not hesitate to say was to lift him
above the earth with, and he was obliged
to cut through the mountains alone in by-
paths to save his life.
	The indomitable spirit of this woman
never flinched, though they must now
journey on foot, these five people with their
five helpless children, leaving by the road-
side all the provisions they had made for
their comfort to be taken by any way-
farer or by foragers from either army. Not
for one moment did she turn her eyes
backward toward her former friends and
relatives, not even tho’ she was well aware
a warm Southern welcome would have
been extended to her with all the comforts
within the power of their courtesy to be-
stow, especially if she had left her religion
with her provisions.
	An account of the many difficulties and
hardships she had to meet and overcome or
bow beneath, while they traveled a distance
of about 200 miles, through the heart of the
battle swept country in the late autumn
and early winter, when rain was of almost
daily and nightly occurrence, would make
a book of no small dimensions, and that
would not be lacking in thrilling events or
stirring loyalty.
	At Brownsville they took steamer for
Portsmouth where she met her husband
and afterwards they took passage for St.
Louis. 
	In the spring of ’67 they prepared to
cross the plains with a company of the
Saints, and her history from that time on
became the history of the Saints, so well
known to all. Fairview was their final
stopping place and their home has been in
this ward ever since.
	June 14, 1869, the. Relief Society of this
ward was organized and Sister Pritchett
was chosen its president, which responsible
position she has held with dignity and
pride up to the day of her decease, Febru-
ary 27, 1901, having been elected president
of the board of directors in 1893, at the
organization according to the laws of the
Territory.
	As we review in mind her life work we
wonder if there are many who ever with so
scanty opportunity performed so many
blessed deeds of charity and benevolence.
She was ever at the bedside of the sick; her
motherly counsel was never sought in vain
either by man, woman or child; the needy
were never refused assistance when they
applied to her, and were usually supplied
with employment—the best of help to the
poor. Her spinning and weaving never
pressed her so hard that she had not time
to attend to her religious duties.
	Regarding the society under her direction
she often received inspiration and some-
times revelation on questions that were, not
then understood, but that were later, ex-
plained by those more experienced, or in
higher places in the very same way they
had been revealed to her.
	Her tenacity in adhering to counsel was
something wonderful, and due to this
quality is the fact that our comparatively,
small society has 2,343 bushels of wheat on
hand in excellent condition.
	She always had a desire to “die in the 
harness," and her desire was granted her.
During her last illness of two months the
responsibility of the society rested on her
mind. She did not forget to send in her


membership fee of ten cents with a request
that whether she be still in the flesh or not
it be donated at the appointed time, March
17, 1901.
Her eventful and useful life closed Feb-
ruary 28, 1901. All Fairview lost a mother
when President Pritchett died.
Euphrasia Day, Sec.


