Vol. 19.                     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1890.          No. 4.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. Fremont Items,—S. J. M.  Notes
and News. Miscellaneous. Woman’s Calling,—
E.A. Crane Watson. R. S Reports,—Box Elder,
Salt Lake Stakes. The Coming Brotherhood,—
Frances E. Willard. The Coming of the Savior,
— M. A. M. Pratt.
	Editorial:—Lawn Fete,—Speeches and Songs,
etc. Editorial Notes.	
	Poetry:—Sowing and Reaping,—Alice L. Cole.
Eventide,—Ida M. Davis. Lines,—By Andrea.
A Song,—A. J. Crocheron. Equal Rights,—
E. H. Woodmansee.


[column 1]
SOWING AND REAPING.

When waking from their slumber
Were forest, field and hill.
And freed from icy fetters,
Were rivulet and rill,
A youth went forth one morning
To sow his early seed,
Choosing the sunny hillside
Rather than shady mead.

He with untiring patience
Had worked with plow and spade,
Till by his earnest labor
A garden plot had made;
And out on the sunny hillside,
Over the fertile land,
He sowed the seed that morning
With true and careful hand.

Spring, with its balmy breezes,
Soon passed from hill and plain.
And the soft breath of Summer
Waved the swift growing grain.
Summer, and still the sower
Did work with patient toil,
For tho’ they be not planted
Weeds spring up from the soil.

The waving grain grew higher
And caught a golden glow
That deepened with each drawing, 
Tho' oft a hungry foe
From a safe distance watching
Did long a share to reap,
He could not for the sower
His ceaseless watch did keep.

And when the tints of Autumn
Were over wood and hill,
He who had sown in Springtime,
And labored with a will
Throughout the changeful season,
His rich reward receives;
With joy he marches homeward
Bearing the golden sheaves.

Another youth one morning,
Careless of where it fell
Scattered his seed at Springtime
Within a grassy dell;
The weeds sprang up and choked it,
But thinking he had sown,
And naught remained but reaping
When the rich grain had grown.

He spent no time in labor,
But all the Summer long,
Idled away the moments
With pleasure, laughter, song.
And when at time of harvest
He forth to reap did go,
To where with careless motion
He sowed in Springtime, lo!

[column 2]
Save weeds, and stones and stubble,
And dead leaves, naught was there;
And he quite empty-handed—
Returned in deep despair,
Learning that in the Autumn
Naught reap we from the soil,
Unless in Spring and Summer
We patiently do toil.

Those who in life's brief seasons,
Carelessly sow the seed,
And think—the sowing over,
To work there is no need,
Will find that in the harvest, 
There are more weeds than grain.
And having gained that wisdom
Wish to sow o'er again.

Too late for recommencement,
When life's best years have flown,
And then to learn the lesson
We reap as we have sown.
How many lives are wasted?
How many hearts cry then
With a sad, useless cadence,
"Alas! it might have been."

You have your lives before you,
Your springtime yet you hold;
Oh may you fill the moments—
Ere autumn finds you old—
With earnest useful labor,
Sowing ere springtime leaves;
Else you shall not in autumn
Garner the ripened sheaves.
				ALICE L. COLE.
	Edited by Mrs. L. A, Penniman and dedicated to the
youth of the Latter-day Saints (all over the world).
	Mauston, Wis., June 30, 1890.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
XXV.

	Always and ever the moan of the sea,
		Sobbing and sighing, she seemed to hear;
	A subtle foreboding of what was to be,
		Sleeping or waking it filled her with fear.

	When the strangers who had brought the
message had left with Hepsie's decided an-
swer in the negative; she felt that the associa-
tions of her married life were ended, that a
new epoch for her must begin, the name was
all that was left, except the terrible sorrow
that hung about her like a funeral pall.  She
experienced some regret on account of Har-
old's brother, who had shown so much real
affection for her, that Mrs. Harvey was accus-
tomed to say, "one cannot tell which loves
Hepsie the most, Harold or Oney."
	How hard it was for Hepsie to face the
world alone, can never be told in words; one
thing only was left, her faith in God; she
prayed unceasingly for divine help, for sub-
lime courage, and it was given her.
	Miss B. had a cousin in Nauvoo, whose
children came occasionally to visit her, and
they had noticed "the pale sick young lady,"
at auntie's, as they called her, and had
spoken of her at home, and the mother had
become somewhat interested, and desirous of
knowing who her "old maid cousin" had
taken to, as she knew her eccentricities.
	She sent word by the boys, that she would
like to meet this young stranger, and told
them to ask auntie to come up and see her, and
bring Mrs. Harvey with her. The answer to
the message was: "Tell your mother she need
not waste her sympathy on Mrs. Harvey, I'll
[column 2]
take care of her, she never has troubled about
me, its only because she's young and pretty,
but she can go if she likes, she'll be sorry if she
does that's all."  Hepsie heard it all. and she
felt keenly the bitterness of spirit, that would
deprive her of a little enjoyment, when she
was so much in need of a change. It was
not long however, until an opportunity came
for her to meet Miss B's. cousin, it was quite
unlooked for, and no one could have been to
blame in the matter but fate, and it proved
fatal to Mrs Harvey, as far as the friendship of
Miss B. was concerned.  After Hepsie's in-
troduction to Miss B's cousin, which was
purely incidental, she became quite familiar 
with the family, and Miss B. became highly
indignant, and one day burst out in her anger.
"If you like cousin Ann so well, you'd better
take up your abode there, you're no good to
me and I'm tired of your going backwards 
and forwards all the time, I can live without
you, but its very ungrateful, when you know 
what I've done for you, taking you in and wait-
ing on you."
	Hepsie could not reply, she was too deeply
wounded, her sobs and tears were her only
answer, and she resolved then, whatever the
consequences might be, that she would not re-
main longer with one who manifested such a
spirit.
	It was true, she had become interested in
Miss B's cousin, for she was a woman of great
faith and never wearied of explaining the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and of telling Hepsie
about Joseph the Prophet, and the days of
Kirtland, the wonderful manifestations in the
Temple, and the scenes of persecution through 
which the early converts had passed in Ohio,
and in Missouri.  All this had a peculiar
charm for Hepsie, and she felt her faith in-
creased and her spiritual strength renewed day
by day, as she listened to the conversation of
this good, devout woman. Finally Mrs. W.
knowing how unsuited she must be to her
queer cousin, said to her one day, "you might
have a little school here, a sort of governess
like, you would be your own mistress in the
matter, and if a better opportunity came,
you would be at liberty to accept it."  Hepsie
realized the great difference in the spirit of
these two cousins, one was full of zeal in the
Gospel, the other constantly finding fault with
everything, and she accepted the offer Mrs.
W. made, though she never mentioned any
remuneration except the privilege of a home.
	She dreaded telling Miss B., but it was un-
avoidable, and in the gentlest way possible,
she explained the matter, but her motives
were all misconstrued and finally when she
saw how useless words were, she burst into
tears and cried until she was really unfit for
anything. Miss B. was so very much annoyed
that she said so many disagreeable things, and
her manner was so offensive that it made Hep-
sie still more anxious to go where she could do
something to pay her way.  She was not in
need of clothes, and therefore cared very little
whether she earned money or not, for the pre-
sent. Miss B. wound up at last by saying: "I
took a fancy to you at first, and as for cousin
Ann, she's got so many of her own, big and 
little, she'll not trouble about you; but its just
like her, she came and took my sister Elizabeth
away once when we were girls, wanted her to
go out west to Ohio with her, tried to win her
affections away from her own family, and
you've always reminded me of my sister, now


[Column 1]
﻿she’ll take you away and leave me alone
again.”
	Little by little Hepsie was learning some of
the hard lessons of life; and all the time griev-
ing at night, even after a peaceful day, her
pillow would be wet with tears. Such a sense
of loneliness even in the midst of congenial
companionship. She never tired of hearing Mrs.
W. talk of Mormonism; but all the time deep
down in her heart, was the longing to see her
mother, though she knew she could not un-
bosom her feelings even to her, and the in-
tense desire to know the fate of her absent
one; she did not wish or expect him to re-
turn, yet she longed to hear of his welfare.
His last letter was from the West Indies, and
he had spoken of “roving on the the wild sea,”
and she intuitively felt he was out upon the
ocean, he had dwelt much in times past on
his love for the music of the ocean; and in
former days had written a song of the sea, and
called it “memory,” that he was very fond of
singing; and she also recollected her emotions
as she sauntered on the beach in the twilight
when a child, and the sort of presentiment she
had then, that the sea would be in some way
associated with her life; she dreamed of the
sea, and its “bounding billows;” and she
fancied she could hear its sobs, the echo of her
own, she longed sometimes to fly away that
she might listen to the reality, it would, at
least, be a sort of sympathy she need not re-
pel. In her calmer moments she knew such
a thing to be impracticable, and that hence-
forth labor in the great work-a day world
was to be her portion.
	She taught a few children in a desultory sort
of a way for a little time, and then was en-
gaged to teach a school in the eastern part of
the city, in a log school-house, and this time
there was no other way but to board around
by the week, but this was among the Latter-
day Saints. Once she had refused to do this,
but many things had changed since that time,
and this opening seemed to her providential in-
deed; another new experience.
	Just before Hepsie went away to teach the
school, Lucy Reynolds and her husband ar-
rived in Nauvoo, and rented rooms near Mrs.
W’s. where Hepsie was staying. Hepsie
found Lucy the same dear old friend, but
Lucy was terribly disappointed that she would
not confide in her, and in consequence of this
there was a temporary estrangement between
them.
	Lucy told her much of her mother’s affairs
and the anxiety she had felt on her account,
thinking to draw Hepsie out on the subject,
but it was of no avail. In regard to her
troubles she was as silent as the grave; work,
now she was better, seemed the best remedy for
both body and mind. Hepsie was greatly in-
terested in her school, she had some large
girls in whom she felt the deepest interest,
knowing how soon they too would be likely to
enter married life, and remembering her own
experience, she sought to instil into their
minds, moral truths, and impress them with
the realities of true womanhood. Her mind
was absorbed during school hours, but when
her tasks were completed she resumed her
accustomed methods of day-dreaming, and im-
agined all sorts of extraordinary things,
almost believing she should hear news of Har-
old, though she never made in quiry of any one
likely to know; in fact she had heard nothing
of the S—ys, Harold’s former partners, and
she was confident, had the Harvey’s heard
from him, they would not have communicated
with her. She was not in the habit of writing
home now, for what could she say; one after
another of her brothers, sisters and school-
friends had expressed in writing to her, indig-
nation against Harold, and denounced his
conduct, blaming Mormonism for all, and she
could not endure such reproaches; so she gave
[Column 2]
them all up. In September her mother
would come, her term of school would close
the last of August, and she would be at 
liberty.
	Occasionally she scribbled verses, but
none of them appeared in print, except on one
occasion, some verses on Friendship she had
sent to a friend, had appeared in an English
journal. Hepsie was astonished, for she had
not thought herself in a condition of mind to
write, but it was true, they had been accepted,
and there they were with her signature at-
tached. Had she sent them herself, she
would only have given her initials, or a ficti-
tious name; however, she consoled herself by
thinking no one knew her scarcely, for she
was very modest about her writing; and afraid
of criticism.
	The weary summer months dragged along,
very little like that other summer, two years
before, when she had been so light-hearted and
full of expectancy. There were many rumors
of mobs in the outlying districts around
Nauvoo, and many actual disgraceful wrongs
perpetrated against the Saints, and work on
the Temple seemed to enrage those who had
arrayed themselves in opposition to the
Church. Hepsie had no fears or misgivings
when she heard of mobs coming almost to
Nauvoo and the threats they made of putting
an end to Mormonism, destroying the Temple
and so on; she felt her courage rise and al-
most forgot her individual troubles in those
of her people.
	Her school had closed, she had said her
farewell to the children, and had gone to
stay with Mrs. W. temporarily, looking for-
ward to her mother’s coming; counting the
days and the hours almost, weary of waiting,
when one bright afternoon, a girl came run-
ning towards the house; Hepsie was standing
in the doorway, repeating over to herself
“when will mother come;” the girl almost
stunned her with the news, “your mother has
arrived, she is at Br. P’s. and wants you to
come immediately.” Hepsie fairly flew over
the ground in her excitement, and at sight of
her mother as she crossed the threshold she
fainted dead away; when she came to herself,
she knew it was the tumult of recollections
that crowded upon her brain, at sight of her
mother’s face that had overwhelmed her and
overpowered her. The meeting was an embar-
rassing one after all, much as Hepsie had cal-
culated upon it, bringing up the trying ordeals
through which Hepsie had passed since leaving
her chidhood’s home, the baby’s birth and
death, the sorrow of that time and what fol-
lowed. Then Mrs. Hathaway had many
questions to ask relative to the situation in
Nauvoo, aud poor little Hepsie had to act as
sort of guide and instructor to her mother;
everything was so different to New England
ways, habits and customs, and Mrs. Hathaway
though well acquainted with the theory of her
religion, knew very little of the practical side,
such as one learns by coming in contact with
those of the faith in the daily associations of
life. But Mrs. H. had her religion at heart,
and therefore difficulties were easier for her,
than those not so firmly rooted and grounded
therein.
	Towards the latter part of September, Hep-
sie’s friend Lucy had a little daughter born,
and she was so absorbed in her mother du-
ties and housekeeping, that Hepsie lost sight
of her for a time. So it is the dearest
friends get separated through circumstances,
though the strong ties that bind them need
not necessarily be dissolved.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


A Christian is a man who is restoring God’s
likeness to his character.—Robertson.


FREMONT ITEMS.
				June 17th, 1890.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Thinking that some of our friends who read
the EXPONENT, would like to hear from their
sisters up here in the tops of the mountains, I
thought I would write a few words in their be-
half.  The Saints here, as a general thing, are
striving to live their religion.  Our Sunday
schools and meetings are well attended, and
also an increase in our Relief Society meetings
of at least one third.  We have had a great
deal of sickness here during the latter part of
winter, and through the spring, but we have
great reason to thank the Lord that He has
answered our prayers in  behalf of the sick, and
for the manifestation of His goodness to us in
many ways  The EXPONENT is a welcome
companion in my house, as it gives us many
valuable instructions, and also gives us an op-
portunity to hear from our sisters in different
parts of the world.	Yours truly,
								S. J. M.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The House agreed July 8th, to the Senate
amendment to the bill for the admission of
Wyoming, and the President signed it July
10th, delaying his signature until half past
five, to give Delegate Carey opportunity to
finish up pending business, as the signature of
the President reduces him to the ranks, and
leaves Wyoming without representation.—Ex.
	The Idaho bill passed the Senate and re-
ceived the signature of the President July 3rd.
The President consulted Delegate Dubois
whether he would rather have Idaho come into
the Union on the Fourth, or have its star
added to the National flag on that day, as the
law provides that the star of a new State is
added on the Fourth of July succeeding its ad-
mission.—Ex.
	Wednesday the 23rd of this month is the
day when Wyoming celebrates its statehood.
The magnificent flag to be presented to the
State by the women as a token of their appre-
ciation of their citizenship is now having the
forty-fourth star added to it. The hearts of all
who love fredom, will send an electric current
of sympathy and congratulations to this
youngest and fairest daughter of the Union.
—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Forbearance is attended with profit.
	To persecute the unfortunate is like throw-
ing stones on one fallen into a well.
	You can outlive a slander in half the time
you can out argue it.—Uncle Esek.
	One ray of moral and religious truth is
worth all the wisdom of the schools.  One
lesson from Christ will carry you higher than
years of study under those who are too en-
lightened to follow this celestial guide.—
Channing.
	As far as possible dwell on the good side of
human things.  There are family boards
where a constant process of depreciating, as-
signing motives, and cutting up character goes
forward.  They are not happy places.  One
who is healthy does not wish to dine at a
dissecting table.  There is evil enough in  man
God knows!  But it is not the mission of every
young man and woman to detail and report 
it all.  Keep the atmosphere as pure as pos-
sible, and fragrant with gentleness and char-
ity.—Dr. John Hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EVENTIDE.
At sunset on the beach I watch
	The children in their glee.
One picks a pebble from the sand,
	And throws it in the sea.
A tiny thing to agitate
	That vast immensity !
Its circles widen, widen out.
	Then, faintly closing o’er,
Are lost in waves more turbulent,
	Or swept upon the shore.

My life is like that pebble tossed
	On time’s refluent sea;
A sudden ripple stirs its face,
	Then glides out silently
In ever widening circles, till
	Its last faint breath is still,
As, weary with the strife to fight,
	Where strength must measured be,
It rests its aching head within
	Sweet sleep—eternity.
					Ida M. Davis.


LINES.
BY ANDREA.
  To Sister Mary Dewey of Deweyville on the death of her
son Horace, who departed this life Aug., 26th 1889.

	A blessing, a prize, a jewel came.
	Some two and twenty years ago;
	To fill your humble cot with joy;
	Much care on him you did bestow.

	And how that kind parental care.
	Which so enshrouds a mother’s heart, 
	Grew and expanded day by day,
	As he performed his childish part.

    	And thus for years your watchful eye,
	Your mother-heart with tender care.
    	Traced every action with delight;
	And ne’er forgot in secret prayer,

	To ask of God who reigns above,
	To fill his heart with noble love;
    	That he might choose the wiser part,
	And serve the Lord with all his heart.

	Your prayer was answered; Horace grew,
	To strength and manhood, good and true;
	And your kind heart did thrill with joy,
	When you beheld your noble boy.

	With ready hands to take his part,
	And do his best with willing heart,
	As time has flown since first he came,
	Into your home without a name,

	A jewel down from God above,
	To claim attention, training, love—
	You, in your labor for his good,
	Did just as any mother would.

	Loved and trained the noble boy,
	And filled his childish heart with joy;
	But failed to think ’twas God’s desire,
	Your boy should aim at something higher.

	Therefore He gave him that sweet rest;
	And he has gone to join the blest,
	His labors now are more of worth.
	Than when he dwelt upon the earth.

	The Lord needs help of good and true;
	And noble minds He must have too,
	To aid Him in'His work in heaven,—
	And to your boy this task is given.

	Therefore I would not call him back,
	To journey on life’s weary track.
	But in the church-yard let him rest,—	
	His soul is safe;—the Lord knows best.

	Of course we’ll miss his presence here,—
	For to his friends he was so dear,
	But do not grieve,—you know he’s gone
	To join that blest and happy throng.
	In humbleness we’ll all proclaim,
	"God gives, God takes, Blest be His name."


[column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S CALLING.

	During the enlightened progress of the age,
we are gaining a more elevated view of the
true mission of woman, of the dignity and im-
portance of her labors and duties, and of the
true happiness which will be the result of a
faithful performance of woman’s work, if her
good efforts are appreciated and sustained by
those holding the power of reason and justice.
At the present time there is quite an agita-
tion at large, involving many theories, and
even speculation, as to woman’s rights and
wrongs. Who can deny that there is not a
wonderful power, social and moral, in the
keeping of every good wife, every devoted
mother, and every true woman, married or
not.  This power is now seeking expression in
nearly every portion of the civilized globe.
There must be some cause for this! ’tis not a
freak or whim of one separate party, religion
or denomination, or nationality, and will one
day be universal. We, of course, must expect
failure and opposition, but our victory will be
so much the greater. To reflecting, intelli-
gent women, whose faith rests on the teachings
of Jesus Christ, this will be no drawback,
women’s calling is grand and all-ennobling, by
her mission being conducted as the great Mas-
ter intended, all mankind will be promoted to
a higher standard, and better qualified to teach
the restored Gospel as taught by Christ him-
self; thereby saving and exalting the souls of
men in the eternities.
	The calling of our sex is not duly appreci-
ated, woman’s efforts receive but little encour-
agement, and she is not given the advantage
due her; her trust is responsible, sacred and
sublime; that of bringing to earth the body
and spirit of man; of training and cultivating
the mental, physical, and spiritual make up in
the most impressible period of childhood; this
is just as important and sacred as anything
ever acquired or accorded to man, for this
alone, all advantages and honor should be
given to every true mother, and she should be
considered man’s equal, as she verily is, nor is
this the end of her world, the limit of her
sphere, her duties here do not in any wise
make her incompetent for any of the intellec-
tual pursuits of life, inasmuch as her natural
abilities and desires qualify her.
	After Eve was given unto Adam, ’twas said,
“a man shall cleave nnto his wife and they
both shall be one flesh.” Woman was created
for a helpmeet to man, we have nothing on re-
cord to make us think God made the female
inferior in any way to the male portions of
creation, ’twas not suggested that she possessed
just enough intelligence to make a very pleas-
ing plaything or toy for the sterner sex,
neither was it proposed that she should be his
slave or drudge, because her mind was not
sufficiently large to grasp knowlege of a higher
order, but ’tis written plainly woman was
created for a helpmeet, not in any particular
branch or sphere, but, a helpmeet, and that
embraces all that was to be done, every requi-
sition devolving upon mankind, as a matter of
fact woman’s labor is more closely connected
with home affairs and ’tis her duty and privi-
lege to become educated, that she may be pre-
pared to instil in the minds of her daughters
the best methods for saving labor, of using
economy, yet-producing the finest results, being
an expert in the domestic regions, need be no
detriment to one having a perfect knowlege of
any of the arts and sciences; of the laws of the
country the most beneficial regulations, and
most desirable systems of executing the same.
	There are in all communities, some who
were never destined to reign either in the pa-
rental sphere or that of wifehood, their intellec-
tual attainments are oftimes of a very superior
nature; and I argue that their calling is equally
grand, and one writer I know says, higher

[column 2]

than those who rule only in their own homes,
because their aims and interests are for those
who are the offpring of others, and who are
not bound to them by the ties of blood, but
their labors are given cheerfully, because of
the intense desire they possess for the onward
and upward march of God’s children; should
they be kept from the performance of their
natural incline ion and abilities? should their
minds be dwarfed to keep them on a level with
those who could not, if they would climb to 
such heights? I say decidedly, no! they should
also be remunerated as liberally as though
they were of the masculine persuasion. It
really looks, if even-handed justice was dealt
to our sisters and daughters, there would be
less enthusiasm displayed for the right of polit-
ical power which is now deemed necessary in
order to obtain the former points of equality,
although I believe women perfectly capable of
becoming acquainted with everything political,
religious or otherwise; yet I can observe noth-
ing elevating for a woman to make herself
conspicuous in a political primary meeting, or
at the polls, I know too well my opinion here
will be opposed, but I calmly submit to your
disapproval, for it is my sincere views upon the
question, and I fail to see any real benefit we
could obtain by laws and penalties, the power
of right we so earnestly crave will only be
gained by the gift of love and duty, man and
woman are either incomplete without the
other, no great thing can be accomplished if
they are separated, we can only fill our des-
tinies unitedly. We are God’s daughters,
Paul tells us, “we must be in subjection to
our husbands” also our “husbands should love
us, and not be bitter towards us,” if this admo-
nition is heeded by our liege lords, they will
consider our cause, grant us all rights and ad-
vantages, for developing womanhood, and ele-
vating our sex generally. We hold the
priesthood in connection with our husbands,
the right to rule with them, to be a helpmeet
in all things which is only obtained through
the covenant we make to "love honor and
obey.” I am an advocate of justice in every
sense being accorded to women, but I fear
the remedy will not be procured by her be-
coming a party in the fight for political power,
I think it is for our eternal good to make
the best use of our time, improving every op-
portunity to expand our minds, enlarge our
understanding, that our mental capacity may
be sufficient to contain all intelligence, for
that is the glory of God; would those who
withold our privilege, grant us the right of
equality with themselves, they would be re-
warded with wiser mothers for their offspring,
sons and daughters with finer intellectual quali-
ties and brighter crowns to adorn their brows
in that world where they will be devoid of
power to deprive us of the advantages the
great Designer intended should be ours.
						E. A. CRANE WATON.


Minutes of Relief Society Conference, held
at Mesa, June 19th, 1890. Meeting opened
by the usual exercises. Pres. Sarah M. Pom-
eroy presiding. Pres. C. I. Robson, with 
quite a number of the brethren were present,
altogether a very good attendance.
	The reports brought in were of an encour-
aging nature. Pres. M. A. Hakes of Mesa,
Lizzie MacDonald, Lehi, Ann Klienman,
Alma, Susan Savage, Papago, and Esther Open-
shaw of Nephi wards, all felt encouraged and
made some excellent remarks.
	Pres. C. I. Robson, with a number of the
brethren, gave some good and timely advice
and instructions in their addresses to the peo-
ple. A general good spirit prevailed.
	Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy and Sister Emma
Hill made a few closing remarks.
	Benediction by C. H. Allen. Adjourned 
for three months. 		F. E. Robson, Secy,


Womans Exponent.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.	
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	July	15,	1890.


[column 1]

﻿LAWN FETE,

GIVEN BY THE W. S. A. OF UTAH.

	On the 10th of July the very day Presi-
dent Harrison placed his signature to the
bill to admit Wyoming into the Union with
Woman Suffrage in her platform, the ladies
of Salt Lake City celebrated the event with a
lawn fete at the beautiful gardens of Mrs.
Caroline E. Dye.
	The decorative committee spared no pains
in ornamenting with flags, banners and stream-
ers. Chinese lanterns were hung in every
available place among the trees, vines and
shrubbery, and a couple of head-lights from
the railroads were so arranged as to give
brilliancy to the effect.
	A stand for the speakers was very taste-
fully draped and hung with pictures of cele-
brated women, at the back of where the ladies
were seated.
	The reception committee did their work
gracefully and thoroughly; throughout the
grounds the chairs and garden-seats were so
arranged that the hundreds of people assem-
bled were all comfortably seated. The whole
scene presented an oriental appearance in
grandeur and coloring.	The perfume of
fragrant flowers filled the air, and the band of
music helped to make the charm more com-
plete.
	It was a large intelligent and imposing as-
sembly of ladies and gentlemen. About half
past eight the exercises opened by music from
the band, a national air, followed with a song
to the tune of the Star Spangled Banner,
written for the occasion, and sung by Mrs.
Agnes Olsen Thomas, whose clear rich voice
is so well suited to the music. She sung with
spirit and expression, and her high notes rang
out melodiously upon the soft night air.
			A SONG.

	TUNE, STAR-SPANGLED BANNER.

Where the mountains eternal, lift up to the sun
Their summits snow-crowned and unchanging forever,
Where the streams leaping forth to the valleys below
Bring harvest and joy from the Father and Giver;
There’s a light shining forth there’s a voice we can hear,
Through the dark o’er the earth, oh how sweet and how
	clear;
'Tis the spirit of God and where’er they may roam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.

Not for riches of earth would we barter away
The title of Saint and the joy of our mission.
Though the world may oppose, all our trust is in Him
Who hath lighted our souls by each glorious vision.
Let the truths we have heard in the Temples' still peace
Fly with wings of a bird to each spirit’s release;
'Tis the voice of our God and where'er they may roam
He is calling the pure to our own mountain home.

[column 2]

Come ye then to the fountain of truth and of love
All ye noble and great, all ye suff'ring and lowly.
Lo! thy King draweth near and the faithful shall be
Gathered in to the feast and be blessed and holy.
Lo! thy steps have been late, He hath called ye so long,
Come, thy joy will be great, come and join the glad song
O’er the weary, wide world, o’er the waters wild foam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July 5, 1890.

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, then came the address of welcome by
the president Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.

Gentlemen and Ladies:
	I have the pleasure in behalf of the asso-
ciation who have arranged this entertainment,
to extend to you kindly greetings and a cor-
dial welcome. 
	The object in gathering you under these
beautiful vines and flowering trees is to show
you that suffragists’ bow at friendship’s call,
and pay homage at the shrine of love, purity
and beauty.
	This being our introductory fete, we ask our
friends to help make it enjoyable to all.
	A short programme will be rendered, after
which, the tables the platform and the
grounds will be subject to the tender mercies
of our guests.

	After some excellent music by the band,
Mrs. Emily S. Richards delivered an elo-
quent address in a clear voice and most happy
manner.

		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :—We
are here tonight under the auspices of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of Utah. Although we
have been organized nearly two years, the objects
of the association are not generally understood,
and therefore it has not received the support to
which it is entitled. We hope that the exercises
and social intercourse of this evening may result
in a more perfect comprehension of this impor-
tant subject, that new sympathies may be
awakened and additional efforts made to advance
one of the noblest works of the age.
	The object of Woman Suffrage is to secure
universal liberty and maintain human rights—not
of women only, but of all mankind. Its funda-
mental principle is human equality. Wherever
any class of people are deprived of equality be-
fore the Jaw, there is a legitimate field for suffrage
work.
	Until recently we exercised the elective fran-
chise equally with men, and therefore did not feel
the need of suffrage organization. We did not
fully realize the value of this precious privilege
until Congress deprived us of it, and then we
wished for its return.
	We have allied ourselves with the National-
American Suffrage Association, whose object is
to secure the enfranchisement of all women. A
host of valiant souls are doing noble work in
Dakota and other places, while our proud sister
Wyoming has entered the Union today with wo-
man suffrage as the brightest star in her diadem.
It has been truly said that "this is the first genuine
republic the world has ever seen, the first recog-
nition in government of the great principle of
equal rights for all.”
	But, why, says one,do you want the suffrage?
Why are you not content to be “queen of the
home” and leave the political arena to men? Be-
cause past experience has demonstrated the un-
willingness of men to accord equal rights to wo-
men. Besides, there are thousands of women
who have never been privileged to wear the crown
of wifehood and who are dependent upon their
own labor for support. It is estimated that there
are over a million of unmarried women in the
United States and nearly as many more in Great

[column 3]

Britain. What must be the grand total of the
civilized world? It is largely for the protection
of these that suffrage associations are organized.
	Until quite recently,and long after the inception of
the suffrage movement, colleges and other insti-
tutions of learning throughout Christendom were
closed to woman. She was not permitted to
practice the learned professions, even if she pos-
sessed the requisite qualifications. During the
first half of the century, feeble rays of light for
woman shone forth from Troy Seminary and
Oberlin College, but not until 1865 did the dawn
of intellectual day begin to break at Vassar; fol-
lowed by a flood of light from Michigan, Harvard,
and other notable institutions, where women now
enjoy equal rights and privileges with men, and
merit alone, without regard to sex, marks the
standard of excellence.
	Today, the pulpit of our land sends forth words
of life and hope from woman’s lips; her voice is
heard at the bar of justice and its echoes fall upon
the highest tribunal on earth; she brings healing
to the sick and solace to the distressed: her brain
and pen contribute power and might to the press;
she is foremost as a teacher, and does much to
mold the minds and shape the destinies of men;
she forms an important factor in the commercial
world and her presence is felt in the office, the
store, the workshop and the factory. Who will
say that she is out of place in any of these positions?
It cannot be denied that she does her work well
and fully earns her compensation.
	So much has been accomplished without the
suffrage, how much more might be done with it?
Already woman has been raised from the status
of a chattel and legal nonentity almost to the
equality of men in property rights. Why should
she not be his political equal? She has ceased to
be a puppet and has become his companion, in-
tellectually as well as socially. Why should she
not share with him the responsibilities of govern-
ment? Her influence would be elevating and re-
fining, while the average of intelligence and edu-
cation of electors would be raised. She could do
much to promote the cause of freedom and pre-
vent discrimination against her sex. Her peculiar
knowledge of home and domestic life would prove
most beneficial in the legislative department of
the State. As a juror she would be both merci-
ful and just. Her devotion to the cause of tem-
perance would strongly tend to promote sobriety
and thrift. Her love of peace would hasten the
time when national differences would be settled
by arbitration, instead of war. Even though she
were not in office herself, the fact that she had a
vote would make the representatives of the people
considerate of her wishes and mindful of her
welfare.
	“Political equality means civil, social and re-
ligious liberty.” We can all do something to-
wards attaining it, if we will.  The glorious
achievements of the past are due to united effort.
Every name added to the the suffrage roll gives
prestige to the cause and is felt at Washington.
A few years ago Congressmen scoffed at the idea
of woman suffrage. The other day one of their
committees reported a constitutional amendment
providing for it. Of us but little is asked; let a
generous response be given.
	The fear has been expressed that such a
change in woman’s status would endanger the
quiet of home and create discord. The absurdity
of this idea was demonstrated during the seventeen
years that women voted in Utah. The same ob-
jection was once made against the higher  educa-
tion of women,but experience has shown that femi-
nine charms and graces are not lost by the study of
Latin and chemistry. On the contrary, learning
and mental discipline add system and competency
to the performance of domestic duties.
	The great majority of women do not care to
hold office or engage in public life. To them the


[Column 1]
powers of womanhood are consecrated to the
hallowed precincts of home; but, while they are
content to modestly shine there, they would in-
sure to their less fortunate sisters who have to
earn their own living, as well as to those who en-
gage in the contest from choice, equal chance
with men to obtain the comforts of life and the
rewards of excellence.
	In all my acquaintance I do not know of a wo-
wan who wants political office, but I do know
many who believe their sisters have equal rights
with men to strive for the blessings of life, and
who think that the quantity and quality of work
done should determine the compensation, without
regard to sex.
	We are seeking the elevation of woman,
morally, intellectually, socially, politically—in fact
in every way. We would not destroy or impair
a single womanly instinct. We would cultivate
and improve every attribute that forms a part of
perfect womanhood. We would not sow seeds of
discontent in any heart that now enjoys the sweet
tranquility of home, but we would place in the
hands of women who are battling among men for
existence, the ballot, to make them equal in the
fray. Intelligence, refinement, purity and grace
are first among the gems we seek. Equality and
justice are the watchwords of our cause. May
they find lodgment in your hearts and utterance
from your lips in favor of human freedom.
	More music by the band and Mrs. Martha
Horne Tingey, read in a very easy and grace-
ful manner, with a voice perfectly modulated,
clear and distinct, an able and effective essay,
written by her mother, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, upon Scripture women, proving
clearly their influence and power by practi-
cal examples.
Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
	In presenting a few of my ideas upon the
subject of Woman’s Suffrage this evening, I
desire to prove to the satisfaction of my hearers,
that it is not the Great Creator, our Heavenly
Father, who has placed woman in the position of
an inferior being, but it is the abuse of the power
that he has committed to her brother, man, that
has kept her back, and placed her on such an un-
equal footing. To do this, I will call the atten-
tion of this intelligent company to a few incidents
in Bible history, which will tend to convince the
unprejudiced mind that God, with His superior
intelligence is no respecter of persons, that He
created and placed His daughters side by side
with His sons, and both are equally responsible,
intelligent and useful in their respective spheres.
	When our Mother Eve was placed in the
garden of Eden she was for a helpmeet to her
husband, not his servant, and the same blessings
were confered, the same promises given to her as
to the man: and when she yielded to temptation
she was equally guilty and just as severely cen-
sured and punished as he, which would not have
been just,had she been a less intelligent and re-
sponsible being. Although Mother Eve has been
greatly censured for her disobedience, as the
text shows, it was only after she had become
convinced that it would make one wise, even as
the gods, knowing good and evil, that she had
the courage to partake of the fruit, willing to
suffer the penalty if she could gain increased
wisdom and knowledge. While we do not desire
to sanction disobedience, it is to her spirit of
progression that we are indebted for the opportu-
nity of gaining that experience and knowledge
that will enable us to return and dwell in our
Father’s presence. And the characteristics she
then exhibited have been transmitted to her
daughters, for to the true woman no sacrifice is
too great,no suffering too severe,if it will result in
good to her posterity and the elevation of the
human family.
	Later in the world’s history when the Lord

[Column 2]
made the promise to Abram that in him and his
seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and in making the covenant with him changed
his name from Abram to Abraham, as contained
in the seventeenth chapter of Genesis, the Lord
said unto him. “As for Sarai thy wife, thou
shall not call her Sarai but Sarah shall her name
be and I will bless her, and give thee a son of
her,and she shall be the mother of many nations;
but my covenant I shall establish with Isaac,
which Sarah shall bear unto thee.” Thus show-
ing that the covenant was made between Abraham
and Sarah, changing both their names to confirm
the covenant made to them and their posterity.
	We next find that in the days of the Judges,
(4” Chap.) the children of Israel came to Debo-
rah, a prophetess, for judgment, for she was a
Judge in Israel, and through her the Lord spoke
to his people. At one time she sent for Barak,
the leader of the army, and said unto him. “Hath
not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying,
Go and draw towards Mount Tabor, and take
with thee ten thousand of the children of
Naphtali and of the children of Zebulon? 		
And Barak said unto her, “If thou wilt go with
me, then I will go but if thou wilt not go with me
then I will not go.” And she said “I will surely
go with thee, notwithstanding the journey thou
takest shall not be for thine honor, for the Lord
shall sell Sisera into the hands of a woman. And
Deborah rose and went up with him.” This
prophesy was fulfilled by Jael, the wife of Heber
the Kenite, slaying Sisera their enemy while he
was asleep in her tent. Thus through a woman’s
agency did the Lord deliver the enemies of His
people into their hands.
	Another beautiful instance is recorded in the
27th chapter of Numbers of the Lord giving
equal rights to woman. Zelophehad, one of the
heads of the families of Israel, died in the wilder-
ness, leaving no son, but five daughters. They,
being women of intelligence Woman Suffragists
if you please, stood before Moses and Eleazar
the priest, and all the congregation, and said
“Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he hath
no son? Give unto us, therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father.” It would seem
from reading the circumstance that even the
great prophet and law-giver Moses, was not
clearly certain upon the subject of woman’s rights
and privileges, for we read, “And Moses brought
the cause before the Lord. And the Lord spake
unto Moses, saying, The daughters of Zelophehad
speak right. Thou shalt surely give them a
possession of an inheritance among their father’s
brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of
their father to pass unto them.   *	 a 	*
And it shall be unto the children of Israel a
statute of judgment, as the Lord commanded
Moses.”
	Another instance where God called a woman
to fill an important position was in the case of
Miriam, Moses’ sister, In the 6th chap. of Micah,
in reproving the people, He says, “For I brought
thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed
thee out of the house of servants; and I sent be-
fore thee Moses, Aaron and Miriam.”
	Huldah was also another prophetess to whom
the priests and scribes came for the word of the
Lord.
	We have another beautiful illustration of
woman’s fortitude, courage and self-sacrifice, as
also her political influence, in the case of Queen
Esther. When the kicked Haman besought
Ahasuerus the king to have all the Jews, her
people, men, women and children, put to death
and to take their spoils for their prey, he said to
the king, “There is a certain people scattered
abroad and dispersed among the people in all
the provinces of thy kingdom, and their laws are
diverse from all people, neither keep they the
kings laws; therefore it is not for the king’s

[Column 3]
profit to suffer them. If it please the king, let it
be written that they may be destroyed, and I
will give ten thousand talents of silver to the
hands of those that have the charge of the busi-
ness to bring it into the kings treasuries.” So
letters were sent by post to all the king’s provinces,
signed by the kings seal, that the Jews should be
put to death. Mordecai, a prominent Jew and
uncle of Queen Esther, sent a copy of the decree
to the queen, and besought her to go before the
king and make supplication to him for her
people. She answered him that there was a law
that no man or woman should go into the king's
court who was not called, under the penalty of
death, unless he should hold out to them the
golden sceptre, and she had not been called to
come unto the king for thirty days. But with
characteristic faith and heroic courage she sent
word for her people to gather themselves to-
gether and fast and pray in her behalf, and said
she, “I will go in unto the king, which is not
according to the law, and if I perish, I perish.”
Her noble self-sacrifice was rewarded. She
found favor with the king, who held out to her the
golden sceptre, listened to her petition and
granted her request. Thus through her influence
her people were saved, and their enemies
confounded.
	When the Lord designed to raise up Samson
to deliver Israel from the bondage of the
Philistines, it was to a woman the angel was sent
and to whom instructions were given. She told
her husband, and when he also desired to see
the angel, he appeared the second time to the
woman, who called her husband, and he then
talked with the angel, but was afterwards afraid,
saying, “We shall surely die because we have
seen an angel of God.” But his wife exhibited
greater faith and force of character, and comforted
him, saying, “If the Lord wanted to slay us
He would not have received the burnt offerings
at our hands and shown us such things.
	An exemplary instance of woman’s wise counsel
and sound judgment being the means of allaying
anger and preventing bloodshed is recorded in
the 25th chap. of the First Book of  Samuel.
When Nabal a Carmellite, through his churlish-
ness had insulted David and provoked his anger
to that extent that he had determined to take his
soldiers and entirely destroy Nabal and all his
household, Abagail,the wife of Nabal,who is rep-
resented as a beautiful woman and of good
understanding, hastened to take a peace offering
and present herself before David, and with wise
and judicious pleadings assuaged his anger and
persuaded him to relinquish his purpose. And
David said unto her, “Blessed be the Lord God
of Israel which sent thee this day to meet me.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou
which has kept me this day from coming to shed
blood.” Thus should woman’s influence ever be
used to avert evil and establish peace.
	We also read in the New Testament that many
women were fellow-laborers with the Apostles in
their ministry, and to whom they refered with
much honor and respect. Our Savior was a
great friend to woman when He was on the earth
and appeared to her and gave her the first commis-
sion after his resurrection,saying,“ Go tell my dis-
ciples I have risen.” Woman never deserted Him
in His hour of trial, but was last at the cross and
first at the grave, while His Apostles each went
their way one of them even denying Him with an
oath for fear of the multitude. But the women
were faithful and true.
	These are but a few of the many instances con-
tained in the Scriptures of woman’s influence in
public as well as private affairs. In presenting
these few items of history for your consideration,
I have endeavored to show that woman’s sphere
is not necessarily confined to the home circle.but
that her Creator designed her to stand as a fellow-
helper, to man in all the affairs of life. And when


she is permitted to take her proper place socially
and politically, she will remember the higher
platform on which she stands, and act as a magnet
to draw society and politics up to her standard
of morality, purity and honor.
	Mrs. Bancroft, of Dakota, was introduced
by Mrs. Kimball; she read a very elaborate
paper npon women suffrage, in a very sweet
voice and pleasing manner.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, made a short
speech impromptu, expressing his approval of
the suffrage movement, and giving his opinion
of woman’s political equality. His remarks
were forcible and inpressive, and will carry
weight in the right direction.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley then de-
lighted the audience by singing “Equal Rights
song” in her charming voice, so high and
perfectly controlled, floating out upon the
night air in its most silvery and exquisitely
cultured tones.

EQUAL RIGHTS.
TUNE, HAIL COLUMBIA.
	Rise Columbia's daughters rise;
	Heaven has surely heard your cries,
	Yet, to the world we must appeal;
	Arise, ye Mothers of the race?—
	Enjoy your heaven appointed place,
	Demand the rights the world accords—
	Freely to “Creation’s Lords”
	Now let woman's watchward—be—
	“Equal Rights, and Liberty."

CHORUS:
	Sisters, brave of heart and true,
	Now for simple justice sue;
	Claim the birthright of the free—
	“Equal Rights, and Liberty.”

	Shall we longer count as naught—
	Rights for which our father’s fought?
	The rights which all their sons enjoy;
	Can impartial justice sleep?
	Servile silence shall we keep?
	Need we bear for evermore—
	All our wrongs so deep and sore?
	Why should women still be bann’d
	Virtual slaves, in Freedom's land?

CHORUS:
	“Equal Rights," for small and great;
	"Equal Rights,” whate’er our state—
	No more, no less than this we claim;
	Let others think 'tis woman's fate—
	Always submissively to wait,
	For equity we’ll still contend—
	And work to gain the wish'd for end;
	Take courage, friends, and don't forget—
	That “Equal Rights" await us yet.

CHORUS:
				Emily H. Woodmansee.
S. L. City, July, 7th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Kimball then announced the close of
the exercises, and that refreshments were next
in order also dancing; the band playing enliven-
ing strains of music. The tables were hand-
somely decorated with flowers, the refreshment 
committee deserve the utmost praise for the
effective work done.  Dancing and animated
conversation was kept up until midnight, when
the guests dispersed.
	The lawn fete was certainly a brilliant 
affair, and the several committees worked with
a will to ensure its perfect success. They
realize most fully the truth of the saying,
"there is no excellence without labor."


We call the attention of our readers to the
article, entitled Woman's Calling, hoping to hear
from other ladies on the subject.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young left home on Thursday 
morning July 10th, stopping in Cache Valley a
few days on her way farther north.  Friday July
11th, she went to Wellsville with Mrs. Lettie
Thatcher and Mrs. Adeline Barber and attended
a meeting of the Relief Society of that place.
Saturday met with the R. S. of the second ward
of Logan which met to reorganize. Sunday at-
tended meeting in the Logan Tabernacle, and
Monday evening at 8 p. m. left with her daughter
Mrs. Zina Y. Card and family on the train
for Canada.  Wrote to us from Butte City
Montana enroute July 15th. Sister Young expects
to visit a few weeks in Canada where her daughter 
resides, and will return home if all is well some-
time in September.
	The fourth of July was appropriately celebrated
in this city, that is after the usual manner, by
men, and a woman to represent the Goddess of
Liberty. Miss Ella Olsen had the honor of the
position. Miss Susan B. Anthony advised the
woman suffragists to celebrate the fourth of July
this year in some suitable manner. When men
and women can celebrate their political freedom
as in Wyoming the honors on Independence day
will be more equally divided.  Ogden celebrated
with the Grand Carnival; other towns in Utah
many of them had suitable exercises and proces-
sions, and everywhere cannons and fireworks
were almost deafening.


R. S. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society, Box Elder Stake, convened on the
10th of June, in the Third Ward Meeting
House, Brigham City.
	Meeting was called to order by counselor 
Susannah P. Booth.
	Singing: "Once more we come before our 
God."
	Prayer by Bishop Tingey.
	Singing:  "Know this that every man is 
free."
	Counselor Booth was the first speaker. “I
am thankful I am here this morning, but it is
with peculiar feelings that I arise."  Spoke
feelingly about our departed president, also of
her own sister who died suddenly.  Said: we
should always be prepared to leave this exis-
tence, I trust I may not yet be called, I am
not prepared, I have a desire to fill my mis-
sion.  The Lord has power to do all things,
let us pray that He will not place more on our
shoulders, than He will give us strength to
bear.  Let us pray for the youth of Zion, I
want to do a mother's part, whether my chil-
dren or others do theirs or not.
	Mrs. Hubbard, Pres. of Willard:  "I am
pleased to be here, but we all feel to mourn,
still our loss is sister Harriet's gain, let us live
so we may meet those who have gone before
us.  We have great reason to rejoice, that we
can meet in peace.  We must be faithful, we
must be true, and love one another."
	Mrs. Jane Perry, Pres. Three Mile Creek:
It is a year to-day, since I had the privelege
to meet with you, and perhaps this is the last
time.  How thankful we should be that the
Lord has permitted us to receive this Gospel, it
is more than my meat and my bread, think of
the many in the world longing to come to
Zion.  We are drifting too much apart, when
we leave this life we will take nothing with us
but our knowlege.  Sister Hariet has laid her
work down after having performed it well,
she has lived up to the principles of the Gos-
pel; she is rejoicing now.  This is the work of
God.

[Column 2]
	Presidents, Peterson of Bear River City.
Mary Goodliffe of Snowville. Christine Jensen
of Mantua, each spoke a short time.
	Fannie Graehl: I feel well although "Aunt
Harriet" has left us, and I still have a desire
to do my duty.
	Sister Rowher:  I hope I may always desire 
to do my duty.
	Sister Johnson of Beaver Dam:  "I feel a 
desire to serve God, prayer is the key to Hea-
ven.  I rejoice in the principles of the Gos-
pel."  Asked the mother's to send their chil-
dren to the Primary.  Singing.  Benediction
by Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session.  Singing;  "We thank 
Thee, O God for a Prophet."
	Prayer by Bishop Jensen.
	Singing:   O, my Father, Thou that dwell-
est."
	Emilia D. Madsen, read a Memorial to the
memory of our departed President, Harriet A.
Snow.
	Presidents Harriet Hunsaker and Dewey,
each spoke a short time.
	Bishop Tingey: It is a great privilege to be
a Latter-day Saint, let us be humble and pray-
erful, let us guard against evil.
	President Harper:  It behooves us to attend 
to our duty.
	Counselor Adolph Madsen, asked the
mothers to encourage their children to attend
the primary meetings.  We should make our
children our confidents, that they may feel
we are their best friends.
	Mary E. Snow:  We certainly miss "one"
to-day from our midst, although we would not
call her back.  The mothers generally enjoy 
their meetings, perhaps, when we were young-
er, we felt to excuse ourselves in being a little slack.
	President Rudger Clawson:  There is a good
influence in this room, and Oh, what an influ-
ence the sisters wield in the church and king-
dom of God, we felt we could hardly spare one,
and that was the president, she died very much
beloved and respected, she has gone to a bet-
ter place and would not choose to come back,
nothing greater can be said of any sister, than
"she has done her duty."  Use an influence 
with your children, that they keep the Sabbath
day holy.
	Sister Watkins President of the Fourth
Ward:  I feel the Lord has been with us with
His Spirit, we should strive to live and work
up to the duties laid before us.  I have been 
in this church fifty-four years, my parents laid
their bodies down in these valleys.
	President Mary Anderson:  The Lord says,
"if you love me, keep my commandments," if
we love Aunt Harriet as much as we profess,
then we ought to live up to some of her coun-
sels, if we try to perform our duties every day,
that is all that can be asked of us.
	Bishop Anderson:  There is a good feeling
and spirit, it is a glorious thing that we can
meet together in peace, to have the privilege to
show what we will do for each other, ourselves
and the kingdom of God.
	Counselor Olivia Widerborg:  We miss
Aunt Harriet, let us follow her example, she
was a true, faithful Latter-day Saint, living
her religion every day in her life.
	Sister Hardy;  Woman is not without the 
man, we should work in unison, administer in
kindness in our families.
	Minnie J. Snow:  Every day that I live, I
feel more the value of the Gospel, unless we
improve every opportunity, I am afraid we will
be weak, when we think we are strong.
	Susannah P. Booth thanked the sisters, said:
if we will work up to the counsels of "Aunt 
Harriet," we shall be faithful, we have always
worked together in unison and love with her.


Conference adjourned for three months, sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Benediction by Bishop Dewey.
				EMILIA D. MADSEN,
								Cor. Sec’y.
		   SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, June 19th, Pres. M.
Isabella Horne, Counselor Mrs. H. M. Whit-
ney, and Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, with the Secre-
tary, Mrs. E. Howard, occupied the stand.
	Conference opened by singing, “Come let us
anew,” etc., prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMas-
ter; singing, “Do what is right.” Roll, called
23 Presidents, 8 Counselors. 2 Secretaries and
2 Treasurers responded.
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks,
in which she urged the sisters to appreciate
the value of the Relief Society, as it had been
considered of such importance as to be record-
ed in the Book of the Law of the Lord.
	The following branches were then represent-
ed: Mrs. Margaret Steele, First Ward; Mrs.
Ann McGregor, Second; Mrs. Frances Smith,
Third; Mrs. Celia Kirke, Fourth; Mrs. Ann
Brimley, Fifth; Mrs. E. Briton, Sixth; Mrs.
H. Woodbury, Seventh; Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Eighth; Mrs. Barrow, Ninth; Mrs. Jennie Mc-
Lean, Tenth; Mrs. M. McMaster, Eleventh;
Mrs. Julia Druce, Twelfth; Mrs. L. A. Wells,
Thirteenth; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, Fourteenth;
Mrs. Mary Grey, Fifteenth; Mrs. E. Davis,
Sixteenth; Mrs. Emma Bull, Seventeenth;
Mrs. Hannah Wright, Eighteenth; Mrs. Ann
E. Neal, Nineteenth; Mrs. M. Sharp, Twen-
tieth; Mrs. Jeremy, Twenty-second; Mrs. S. J.
Cannon, Farmers; Mrs. S. Gibson, Sugar
House; Mrs. E. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood;
Mrs. Ann Griffith, Union; Mrs. C. Smith,
Draper; Mrs. Bodell, Herriman; Mrs. Mary
Dixon, Mountain Dell; Mrs, W. Olsen, Sandy;
Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan; Mrs. M. A.
Webster, North Jordan: Mrs. Mary Porter,
Granger; Mrs. A. S. Hirst, Pleasant Green;
Mrs. Jane Silcox, Riverton; Mrs. M. A.
Hazon, Brighton; Mrs. M. A. Mousley, Bluff-
dale.
	Pres. Horne made a few encouraging re
marks, said she thought we should all help
and especially some of the young ladies should
take hold and do some of the work.
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
doxology, benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session:	Meeting commenced by
singing, “Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest,”
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; singing, “Mid
seenes of confusion,” etc. The opening ad-
dress was made by Pres. B. W. Smith, in
which she exhorted all to be faithful, and to
prepare for the coming of the Savior, to be
diligent, keep the Sabath day holy, and to up-
hold the Relief Society.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon a
oneness of spirit, and of feeling, she sorrowed
for those who turned away from the truth,
knew they lost great blessings, felt the greatest
blessings followed obedience, knew we had a
great mission to fill; hoped we would all be
prepared to meet the Savior.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, spoke of her desire
to do good, her appreciation of the blessings
she had received, thought it was time we
stepped forward and became acquainted with 
politics, that we might understand the laws of
our country, and know our rights and privi-
leges, and then we would be better able to help
fallen humanity to arise from their fallen con-
dition; knew that we needed the spirit of the
Gospel and faith to accomplish what we
ought to do.
	Mrs. E. McDonald of St. George, spoke elo-
[Column Two]
quently upon faith, patience and wisdom, re-
joiced in the Gospel, felt that there was com-
pensation in it for all our trials; gave excel-
lent practical advice in regard to bestowing
charity upon the needy.
	Mrs. E. Howard, spoke of her recent visit
to Grantsville, where she attended the Relief
Society conference of Tooele Stake; thought
many of the Saints were slumbering and sleep-
ing, carried away with the things of the world;
spoke well upon the saving of grain by the
sisters.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, made some very. good
remarks, thought we should always be able
to give a reason for the hope that is within us.
	Pres. Horne, spoke upon punctuality in
attending meetings, said we should not dwell
too much upon our trials, but prepare our-
selves for whatever might come, we should
get credit for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil. Spoke of her
interesting visit to Sanpete, where she had en-
joyed herself in doing Temple work, and in
visiting the Relief Society, “they are loving
and united there.”  Urged the sisters to get a
spiritual education, said in this respect we
have had the same blessings as our brethren;
we can have the same privilege and elevation
that they have; exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of our religion,
and to live good lives, and set a good exam-
ple, told the sisters to try and get in all the
wheat they could this harvest, it would be
wanted, and to urge the members to attend
meetings, it would increase their faith, and
help them in good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said her labors had
been in the Relief Society for nearly half a
century; thought our young sisters should take
hold in the Relief Society and not let all the
burden rest upon so many old and middle-
aged, would like to see a greater unity in our
work; the Relief Society should help the suf-
fragists and they should work with the Relief
Society and young ladies, and all help mu-
tually for improvement. We should advise
our young people, try and keep them in the
paths of virtue, we should never do anything
we cannot ask the blessing of God upon. Ex-
pressed a wish to hear a woman read the
Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of
July, prayed the Lord to inspire us individu-
ally, to work in that channel where we would
accomplish the most good.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks,
hoped all would think well of what Mrs. Kim-
ball had said upon the woman question, it re-
minded her of what the five fatherless girls
did in ancient times; in the days of Moses.
Those girls obtained their rights of inheri-
tance the same as their brethren; through in-
terceding, though Moses had to ask the Lord;
hoped we would have something to do with
government behind the veil.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, “We thank Thee, O God,” etc., bene-
diction by Mrs. Julia Druce.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.

(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.)
	The Woman's Council can do something in
this line. Representatives of about seventy
societies of women have already joined it.  If
those women, representing seventy different
societies and tens of thousands of good-hearted
members, if they would hold a council on the
subject of white slaves, if they would work up
 a petition to city councils, something would
come of it.  A city council would not act be-
cause of the petition alone, but the people who
sign the petition will think about the subject.
Let the petition ask that there shall be women
appointed as inspectors; that there shall be a

[Column 2]
municipal ordinance providing that in the
given city there shall be women to serve
without salary—well-to-do women, who would
much better invest their time in this manner
than to swing in hammocks and read story
books—to be appointed to visit the places
where women work, and to make official re-
ports to the city council.  Then let the work-
ingmen, who have the majority in every city,
demand that there shall be a fire-escape to
every building where there are wage workers,
instead of having them piled in there and
killed and burned as thoughtlessly as if they
were so many sardines in a box. Then let it
be put down as another section of that law,
that there shall be so many in a room of a cer-
tain size, and no more.  Why, in some places,
the girls are told that they must take short
threads, for if they did’nt their needles would
go into the eyes of the one in front!  Then
the law should provide that they should have
their lunch room, and not have to stand up,
huddled together like so many sheep, to nibble
away at their lunch; and they should have an
hour, and not an half an hour, at noon; and
that there shall be the best sanitary conditions
and conveniences.
	But the law is nothing unless you have an
enforcer. Let the women enforce the laws.
Let the men and women sitting in their clubs
and saying what a wonderful country this is,
that a woman can dress so cheaply, that the
sewing machine has made such a difference
that you hardly have anything to pay for
your clothes, and have so much more time and
money to improve your mind, know how it is
they get their collars and cuffs so cheap.  Let
them look into the wan faces of the women who
make these garments, and receive these prices
for their work!  Women are too good hearted
to tolerate all this, if they know the cause.
Bring them face to face with the workers, and
they will soon work up such a public opinion
that the hours and rates of wages will be
changed for the better.
	In order to get your minds stirred up by
way of remembrance, read "The Prisoners of
Poverty," by Helen Campbell.  When I was
in Boston, in the winter of 1888, I read in the
papers that some of the professors of Harvard
University had been having a great deal of
talk with a socialist. His name was Laurence
Gronlund.  He was a Dane, and those men
said he was the most sensible socialist they
ever met.  Many think every socialist an
anarchist, but here was one who was most re-
putable.  I had the pleasure of an interview
with him, and I was wonderfully interested in
his ideas.  He said to me:  "People generally
will not read my book, because it is dry, but
there’s a wonderful gifted man who has put
my book into a story, and the name is 'Look-
ing Backward.' "  So I read that; and Ed-
ward Bellamy, its author, says that from the
year 2,000 he looked backward to the year
1887, and saw, from that blessed and wonder-
ful time, the terrible condition we are in now.
He tells what might be done, as if it had really 
happened.  Of course there are characters in
the story, and there's a spice of romance and
all that; but it is to me a wonderful book.  I 
do not see why what is in it should not come
to pass. If all would say, “Let us have no
enmity, let us have no outrage, let us have
mutualism, let us have collectivism, let us
have arbitration, let us have co-operation in-
stead of the wage system, and let it come not
by revolution, but by evolution,"  I think it
might be.  The best part of this evolution will
be the little white papers dropped into the
ballot box.  That is the way it is to be done.
	Workingmen are reading the Testament.
They are reading and studying about the
wonderful character—The Carpenter’s Son.
They are reading and studying about His
ideal of brotherhood, and what kind of a


world we could make this if we set out on the
principles that He taught, and on the princi-
ple that He lived.  I am glad that they are
studying the temperance question, studying 
the woman question, and studying the New
Testament.  They are thinking whether we
could not make a heaven out of this world.
Let them go on, those men who find that it
is for their interest to have a great big trust
and a great big monopoly.  Perhaps the peo-
ple will some time discover that there are two
who can play at that game.  They may find
that the trust with "We Us & Co." for the
name, that such a trust as that might make
things go into a sort of brotherhood in this
country, and that it could be brought about
through the ballot-box  Only a country that
has Christianity could ever have ideas of bro-
therhood, only a country that has the broad-
ness and the sweetness of the Gospel could
ever care for such things. Bishop Simpson,
preaching in Evanston when I was a student
in college there, said:  "Boys, the very but-
tons on your coats you owe to Christ."  I pon-
dered on that a great deal, and I concluded it
was God’s truth.  Carlyle the great Scotch
philosopher, said, as he sat under the hedge
side by side with Emerson, the great American
philosopher, and pointed with his long finger
across the meadow to a church spire: “Christ
died on the tree!  That built the kirk yonder,
and brought you and me together."  So it was
Christ, who died on the cross, who put the
bright light into the earth that is spreading
everywhere.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE COMING OF THE SAVIOR.
	Acts 1st chap. 11 ver. "Ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into Heaven? this
same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye
have seen him go into heaven."
	The Latter-day Saints are the only people 
that are looking for the Savior to come as
Peter said He would, and the only ones that 
will be prepared. Joseph Smith received a
revelation to gather out from the world the
honest at heart, that would receive the Gos-
pel of Christ, I'll quote from the Book of
Covenants, Appendix Section 133, 4th ver.
commencing at, "wherefore prepare ye, pre-
pare ye, O my people; sanctity yourselves;
gather ye together, O ye people of my church,
upon the land of Zion."
	5th verse. "Go ye out from Babylon. Be
ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord." 
	8th verse. "Send forth the Elders of my
church unto the nations which are afar off;
unto the islands of the sea;—firstly upon the
Gentiles, and then upon the Jews."
	The Gentiles have been almost thoroughly
warned, and the Jews will be.	
	10th verse. "Yea, let the cry go forth
among all people: Awake and arise, and go
forth to meet the bridegroom, behold and lo
the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
him. Prepare yourself for the great day of 
the Lord."
	Watch, therefore,  for ye know neither the
day nor the hour.
	Let them therefore, who are among the 
Gentiles, flee unto Zion.
	And let them who be of Judah flee unto
Jerusalem."
	Here the Latter-day Saints have the word of
the Lord, and know just what to do. First
the elders preached the gospel to them, then
the gathering, so that they could be prepared
to go in to the marriage supper of the Great
Bridegroom. "And when this Gospel of the
kingdom is preached, the end shall come."
	The Holy word speaks of the signs that will
ake place just before His coming. “The

[Column 2]
waters would go beyond their bounds, there
would be earthquakes, fire, and vapors of
smoke, men's hearts failing them for fear of
the things that would take place on the
earth."
	Some would say the Lord delayeth His
coming, but Malachi says: "He will suddenly 
come to His temple." Then a temple must be
built for Him to come to. What people have
built a temple but the Latter-day Saints? and
who are looking for His coming?
	In the last chapter of Revelations it is re-
peated twice: "And behold, I come quickly,
and my reward is with me to give every man
according as his work shall be." This same
Jesus that Peter saw go up into Heaven will
come again to reign on the earth a thousand
years, of which the Sabbath is typical, being
the end of the six thousand years of labor and
toil, the seventh thousand year comes in as a
day of rest, and there shall be nothing to hurt
or destroy in all my holy mountain saith the
Lord. And He will come as a thief in the
night, they will be eating and drinking marry-
ing, etc., as in the days of Noah, until the
flood came and took them all away. We the
Latter-day Saints have gathered out from the
world to prepare ourselves for the coming of
our Redeemer, we ought to be the most faithful
of any people on the earth, keeping ourselves
unspotted from the sins of the world, from all
its allurements, and whether we live or die,
we shall be ready to meet our Lord, as Paul
says the dead in Christ shall rise first, and ever
be with the Lord.
	"Now we beseech you brethren, by the com-
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gath-
ering together unto Him, that ye be not soon
shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit,
nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as the
day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive
you by any means; for that day shall not come.
except there come a falling away first, and
that man of sin revealed, the son of perdition."
Thessalonians II, 2nd chapter. 
	This we know to be true, as there never was
a time, when there was such a commotion by
sin and unbelief, because they received not the
love of the truth, that they might be saved, 
so strong delusion was sent to them that they
should believe a lie, who believed not the
truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Bertha
Greenwood who died quite suddenly at American Fork
June 7, 1890.
	Sister Bertha Eyring Greenwood was born June 12, 1839
at Saxony, Coburg, Germany, and came to America in
1853 and joined the Church in St. Louis in 1859.  She has
been a faithful officer of the Relief Society of this ward ever
since her residence here having acted invarious capacities
and always been on hand to do what was required of her.
	She was a good Latter-day Saint and a true friend to
the poor and needy.  She was also a teacher in the Sun-
day School for several years and has been a great comfort
to her afflicted husband during his long and painful illness
requiring her constant attendance.
	Sister Bertha has been subject to attacks of acute rheu-
matism for several years past and suffered at times very
severely. She had an attack of rheumatism on Sunday pre-
vious to her death which developed into rheumatic fever,
and the slender thread was snapped quite suddenly on Sat-
urday afternoon causing grief of the wildest description
among her family and friends.
	Therefore be it resolved,that we the members of the R.
S. of American Fork tender our sympathy to the afflicted
husband and to the children who are bereft of the care and
counsel of their beloved mother.
	Resolved,that we deem it a just tribute to her memory to
say that she was loved and esteemed by a large circle of
friends and associates and her sudden death is mourned by
all.
	Resolved,that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family also that one be sent to the American
Fork Independant and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and that it be spread on the pages of our record.


Tho', hard it seems to part with friends,
	Yet we've the assurance given
That ties so dear we form on earth
	Will reunite in heaven.
				MARY S. HINDLEY,
				ELLEN D. CLARKE,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
				ORPHA ROBINSON,
				MARY B. ADAMS,
								Committee.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S ﻿EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
