Vol. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1890.		No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. The Coming	Brotherhood.—
Francis E. Willard. Pride, How Shall We Define
It?—Mary. Montpelier Primary.—Rose Hillier.
Widows In India.—Selected. R. S. and P. A.
Reports.—Bear Lake—Uintah. How It Came
About.—Maud Muller. Notes and News.
Editorial. An Interesting Time. W. S. A.
Celebration. Editorial Notes. Honoring the
Aged.—A. C. W. The Bitter and the Sweet.— 
M. E. K.
POETRY. In The Old Days Of Long Ago.—Lu.
Afterwards.—Ida M. Davis. Supplication.—
Charity. Lines.—Alice M. J. Tanner.


IN THE OLD DAYS OF LONG AGO.
BY LU.

In the old. old days of the long ago
	This world was a loom, it is said.
Wherein truth and error wrought together,
	Thro' the woof and the warp of its thread.
So firmly they wove that few could sever,
	Or fairly trace out the false from the true,
Only persistent, constant endeavor,
	Caught sight of the error, woven all through.
Then such beautiful things were woven in,
	Rich dazzling colors both of light and dark.
Glimmering all over its strife and din,
	That the deepest wisdom could scarcely mark
Where the truth came in; or error was placed.—
	Fashion and folly mad passion and hate,
Were wrought with truth in extravagant haste,
	Adown through the ages early and late.
Fearless and free without halt or delay,
	Backward and forward the swift shuttle flew,
Evil and good traveled along through the way,
	The woof and warp, held the false and the true.


AFTERWARDS.

When rushing swift to some vague goal
    We cast chance glances by the way,
But have not time to pause or look
    Lest we the unknown world shall stay,
We snatch quick sight of pleasant things;
    And when we find ourselves at last,
Within the land we made such haste
    To reach, and see the flowers fast
Fade in the dullness of decay,
    We think of glimpses that were flashed
From deep rich tints of summer’s bloom.
    As o’er the way we careless dashed.

Thus when we struggle to attain
    Some cherished plan, some topmost hight.
That seemed the one alluring way,
    And to that end both day and night
We hurried swift, nor noticed aught
    Of modest grace in humble ways,
Till fades the sky's enchanting blue,
    And we remember then some days,
Whose swift, sweet hours flew by like birds
    Upon the wing with merry lays.
Whether they flew to north or south,
    We heeded not till after days.

Returning late they brush their wings
    Close to our face; and then we feel
Something we lost and gave no thought.
    Till thus we’re smote in mute appeal.
And standing dizzy and alone,
    We dreaming measure years apast.
By just these hours, How strange wee birds,
    Ye should usurp the throne at last.
					IDA M. DAVIS.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
XXVI.

    In all the shifting scenes and toils of life,
	Where’er her fortune, or her lines were cast;
    Battling for right 'mid all the storms and strife;
	Buoyant and hopeful even to the last.

	The fall and winter following Mrs. Hatha-
way’s arrival in Nauvoo were of special note
in the history of the Church, and each and
every event that transpired made upon her a
deep and lasting impression, as also upon Lucy
Reynolds and her husband, for though they
were staunch Latter-day Saints they were
totally unacquainted with the spirit of moboc-
racy, that pervaded Nauvoo and its suburbs,
and one might almost say Hancock Co., and
the State of Illinois. During that winter the
Nauvoo Temple was so far completed, as to be
ready for ordinances, and this seemed to arouse
the evil passions of the wicked mobs beyond all
reason; persecution raged to the very extreme,
and an exodus of some of the Saints, especially
the leaders of the Church and their families,
was talked of early in the winter. So many
occurrences took place about this time that it is
impossible to do more than barely touch upon
them; and that is perhaps sufficient for the
story we are writing.
	The Saints who were in good standing were
anxious to receive their blessings in the beauti-
ful Temple that had been built at such great
expense, under such trying circumstances, and
while many of those who worked upon it were
so poor they were scantily supplied with the
necessaries of life, yet they had toiled on, de-
termined to finish the Lord’s house. Brigham
Young, who by virtue of his position as Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve was really
the leader of the people, was desirous that as
many of the Saints as could, should have the
privilege of the blessings to be given in the
House of the Lord, while there was still an
opportunity granted them, for prophet as he
was, he foresaw the hindrances that weuld fol-
low; and day after day the Temple was
crowded with brethren and sisters. It was a
grand and beautiful sight and one that can
never be forgotten while memory lasts, not
only inside the magnificent and holy edifice,
but to see the Saints flocking up the broad
steps and to the doors of the Temple as we had
read of in ancient days during the short time
they were permitted to work therein.
	Hephzibah had many excellent opportunities
of becoming familiar with the highest and
most exalted principles and truths pertaining
to the Gospel, as well as to the great and grand
work which was being performed in the
Temple; and it really seemed that she had been
mysteriously led without her own volition into
a channel of association whereby she might
obtain certain great blessings and privileges
not only for herself, but for her mother; who
was such a devout and faithful exemplar of
the first principles taught by the Elders and
also so intelligent concerning the prophecies of
scriptures, which she had so carefully studied.
Coming to Nauvoo at a time when one great
event was crowding thick upon another, with-
out being known except by a few, she (Mrs.
Hathaway) would not have had the privilege
of going into the Temple as she so much de-
sired, had it not been that the way had been
opened for her through Hepsie’s misfortunes
and sorrows, that had thrown her into the
[column 2]
society of those who “went in and out of the
Temple day and night.”
	Hepsie realized now it was in her power to
get the privilege of Temple ordinances for her
dear mother who had been so zealous and
earnest an adherent to the Gospel ever since it
was first preached in the little country village
in New England, though she had not had the
opportunity of gathering to Nauvoo in the
life-time of the Prophet, and hearing his voice
for herself which she had so ardently desired.
	It was a great comfort to Hepsie that she
could assist her mother in this way spirit-
ually, even at the time, but in years after-
ward she realized more fully, how surely the
hand of Providence, had guided her in ways
she knew not, and against which her spirit and
her pride had. wofully rebelled, though she
had kept silence, and none knew except her-
self the struggles she had undergone in her
heart and soul.
	All this time she had heard nothing from
the Harvey’s, and she knew now that she had
hoped against hope, with regard to Harold.
She felt confident in her own mind that he was
dead, though no word or message came save
the still small whisper down in the depths of
her own soul, which told her plainly that she
was free and at liberty, to make choice of
another if she so desired. She did not know
whether she cared for this freedom or not, she
had passed through so many trying ordeals,
that she seemed only to think of peace, she
had been so completely subdued and remolded
that she was not sure if she still possessed any
of the romantic characteristics of former days.
She had given up everything; all her girl-
friends, all her associates, and once she had
thought that weuld be impossible; even Lucy
Reynolds seemed more her mother’s friend,
than hers; what did it all mean? Mrs. Hatha-
way quickly discerned after her arrival the
great change that had taken place in Hepsie,
though she rejoiced that it had increased in-
stead of lessening her faith.
	“Hepsie,” she said one day when they were
alone together, “what has made such a radical
change in you? It seems incredible to me, (and
I am your mother,) that you should have lost
your ambition to be a writer, or teacher, your
poetical taste, your aspirations for fame, that
we once thought so firmly rooted and grounded
in your nature from early childhood, can you
explain what has caused it? Is it Harold's un-
faithfulness?”
	Hepsie’s lip quivered, her eyelids trembled,
her whole soul convulsed with peculiaremo-
tions; she knew not what to answer, but feel-
ing as she always had her mother’s superiority,
and recognizing her right to question, she col-
lected her scattered thoughts and replied
hastily. “Don’t question me, mother, I can’t
bear to talk of these things now, everything in
this world has changed for me; henceforth my
religion shall be my all.”
	Mrs. Hathaway never questioned Hepsie
again, but she saw and felt that she was
absorbed as it were in something that engrossed
her thoughts and occupied her mind to the ex-
clusion of all else, and she remarked to
Lucy Reynolds (now Mrs. Adams) one day
when they were talking. “Can you tell me
Lucy, what has come over Hepsie to work such
an entire change in her?” “No,” replied Lucy,
“unless it is the Temple work and the exalting
nature of the principles taught by the Apostles
and Elders concerning a spiritual exaltation


[column 1]
through sacrifice, that she seems to think so
far in advance of all the learning and wisdom
of the world.”
	Shortly after the conversation between Mrs.
H. and Lucy, Hepsie said to her mother in a
sort of casual way, “the leaders of the Church
and their families are preparing to leave
Nauvoo and go forth into the wilderness to
seek a place of refuge from their oppressers, as
the Pilgrims did, only instead of crossing the
sea, they will go over the great American
desert.” Mrs. H. looked up from her sewing
in surprise exclaiming, “and do you think of
undertaking this journey?” .“Why, mother
would it be such a dreadful thing to do? there
are many young women going, and there is
nothing to hinder my trying a new experience,
there will be plenty of toil and hardship con-
nected with it no doubt, but to travel through
an unknown country will be interesting in the
extreme!” “And do you take into consideration
that you will be leaving your mother and all
your own kindred?” And Mrs. Hathaway al-
most broke down as she said it Hepsie had
scarcely seen her mother weep in her lifetime,
and it was almost too much for her, she had
not thought she would take it so to heart, and
it was a few minutes before she could reply,
and when she did, it was with a great effort she
maintained her composure, but she felt she
must speak out, and choking down her sobs and
looking up at her mother’s sorrowful face, she
said “Something tells me I must go mother,”
and before she could finish the sentence her
mother interrupted her saying, “and some-
thing tells me if you go we shall never meet
again.” By this time mother and daughter
were both in tears; it was indeed a trying scene,
Hepsie felt as she had expressed herself that
she was impelled to go by some irresistible
force, and she hoped to make a satisfactory ex-
planation to her mother, though it almost
broke her heart to be separated from her again
so soon. Words seemed powerless to express
her feelings and her great love for her mother
made it very hard for her to decide,and yet the
whisperings of her own heart were all the time
urging her forward.
	Lucy (Mrs. Adams) coming in put a stop
to the conversation for a few minutes, but ere
long Lucy said “Hepsie is it true that you are
going away to Upper California beyond the
Rocky Mountains?” Hepsie made no reply.
But Mrs. Hathaway who was specially anxious
to know what had made Lucy inquire, said ex-
citedly, “Who says Hepsie is going away?” “O,
Brother Kimball says so, and I’ve heard others
say it too, I thought ’twas all settled, I only wish
I was going, but we can’t go yet, but we’ll be
sure to follow after.” Then you approve of
this move and expect that all the Saints
will go as soon as they can?” Mrs. Hathaway
said, anxious te know what her opinion was.
"Most certainly, why Brother Kimball says
its the grandest move the Church has ever
made, there they’ll be free to worship God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, with none to molest or make afraid.”
“I am very glad to hear Brother’s Kimball’s
views, I know they must be correct, though that
does not reconcile me to parting with Hepsie,
and I am not prepared to go now in such haste.”
“It is not expected that widows will go with
young children this winter,” said Mrs. Adams,
who seemed as anxious to tell all she knew
about the matter as Hepsie was to keep silence
on the subject, “but the Church will send for
the widows and children, the aged, and those
who cannot go now, as soon as they get located.”
	“Really Hepsie are you going, because if
you are I’m sure you are expecting to be
married again.” Hepsie was now fully aroused,
no one had ever mentioned marriage to her in
presence of her mother, and she resented
such an insinuation, as though it were an in-
sult; in the bitterest tone she said, “Lucy
[column 2]
Adams how dare you talk to me like that, am
I not already married, and have I not suffered
enough for a lifetime?” "O, as to that,” re-
plied the incorrigible Lucy, “you were never
so desperately in love with Harold that it need
to hinder you from marrying again, and in all
probability he’s dead anyway, I saw his brother
the other day, and he declares Harold is dead,
or he would have come back before now, for
he wrote him a letter and said, he would come
back for you within a year if he lived, and the
year is long past now.” Even Mrs. Hathaway
felt this was too much upon such a painful
subject, and addressing Mrs. Adams, said “you
are simply torturing Hepsie beyond all en-
durance, she has no thought of marriage I am
positive.”	
	What Mrs. Adams had said about Harold’s
death had its effect upon Hepsie, she could
not dismiss the subject from her mind by night
or by day; and she resolved to ascertain if
possible whether he was living or dead.
	After that day Hepsie felt she could never
meet Lucy again and she was anxious to go,
and to get away from all those who would be
likely to mention Harold’s name to her. Mean-
time she made the matter a subject of con-
stant prayer in her heart, as she performed her
daily duties, and she struggled with her feel-
ings to know how to bear the separation from
her mother, which she knew was inevitable if
she concluded to accept the offer she had to go
with the first company, who were to leave the
beautiful city of Nauvoo in midwinter. She
never thought of the hardships to be encount-
ered, the journey had no fears for her; to be
with those who had the word of the Lord,
with prophets and Apostles,to be always gaining
a knowledge of those things that pertain to
eternal life, and the advancement of the Lat-
ter-day work was her object. She tried by
persuasion and entreaty to reconcile her mother,
believing in her heart and assuring her, that
she would by going forward herself, be able to
advance her interests and help her more than
if she stayed behind. “I am no longer a child,”
she said, “but able to think and act for myself
relying upon my Heavenly Father for guid-
ance and protection.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


[column 1]
THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.
(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.)

	There is nothing so grand as work:
	Labor, all labor, is noble and holy;
	Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God!
	
	Work is not great because many people have
heard that we do it- Work is great because it
is done in a royal spirit.  Work is getting to
be aristocratic; and not to work, dishonorable.
It is not uncharitable to say that a person who
does nothing is a drone in the hive, and does
not amount to anything.  It is the sweat of
the brain and the sweat of the brow that
makes us Somebody with a capital S, instead
of Nobody with a capital N.  Then let us be
glad that we are workers with God who never
ceases in His benefactions. We live in a
world where every insect and bird and creature
is always doing something, because to do some-
thing is to be happy; and so when the time
comes that the true aristocrat shall make the
world something like a home,and not altogether
like a desert; when they come to their kingdom;
when they have the opportunity for the culture
of their minds as well as the development of
their hands, which they ought to have; when
there are no grades in society except grades of
moral excellence, grades of industry, grades of
intellectual nobility; when there is no wealth
that makes aristocracy,  but when what
we are, what we have done, fixes our place in
the world, then I believe we shall see the world
that Christ came to bring.  We are going to
[column 2]
see it far sooner than we think, because we are
living in a time when ideas get around almost
as quick as a flash of lightning.  Every throb
of sympathy from the heart towards such as
the “white slaves,” every outraged sense of
justice that ever stirred a human heart, has
helped to bring about this great time of
deliverance.  We have talked a great deal
about charity.  I am glad to live in a day when
we are talking something about justice.  We
women want justice.  All the laboring man
wants is justice and fair dealing.  All that
these “white slaves” ask is that they shall not
be slaves; that rich men shall not give so much
to a school, so much for building a chapel and
so much for missions. as if they were great
Christian philanthropists, yet all the time put
the thumb-screw on these poor girls.  That
has got to be done away with.  Peoples eyes
are being opened.  God grant that the doctrine
of Christ, which is “fair dealings to others as
you would yourself be done by,” may come to
every workingman and woman in America.
	And yet the Nation is full of real Christian
men and women who “deal justly, love mercy
and walk humbly with God.” They heed the
voice of Christ in its tender cadences saying:
“And all ye are brethren!” God grant their
number may be multiplied!  Even men of the
world admit that London’s four hundred city
missionaries mean more for peace and quiet
than four thousand police would mean.  Even
infidels admit that McAll’s Mission in Paris
prevents barricades and riots by teaching the
French workman a more excellent way to the
brotherhood of which he dreams.  For the
book of peace and goodwill says: “This is the
fast that I have chosen, that ye break every
yoke.”
	Let me give you my “shorter catechism,, of
political economy from Ruskin: “There is no
wealth but life.  Life, including all its powers
of love, of joy and admiration.  That country
is the richest which nourishes the greatest
number of noble and happy human beings;
that man is the richest who, having perfected
the functions of his own life to the utmost, has
also the wisest helpful influence, both personal
and by means of his possessions, over the
lives of others.  A strange political economy
founded on self-interest being the fulfillment of
that which once brought schism into the
policy of angels and ruin into the economy of
heaven.”
	Dear friends,
	Your bark is wafted to the strand by breath Divine,
	And on the helm there rests a hand other than thine.

Other than yours—that steadfast, loving hand
of Him whose hand was pierced for you and
for me, who shall one day hold the scepters
of the world, who cared not for Himself, but
whose very prayer was for us all.  There is
no “I” in the Lord’s Prayer, it is all “We;”
it is all the Brotherhood of Man and the
Fatherhood of God.


A lawn party was given to Miss Susan B.
Anthony in Indianapolis on July 25th, in aid
of her work in South Dakota. The committee
having the affair in charge were: Mr. and Mrs.
E. C. Atkins, Hon. and Mrs. Joseph E.
McDonald, Mr. and Mrs. George Merritt, Dr.
and Mrs. H. G. Carey, Mr, and Mrs. Franklin
Landers, Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Kregelo,
Mr. and Mrs. Stanton J. Peele, Mrs. Mary
McKenzie and Mr. and Mrs. Theodore L.
Sewall. Speeches were limited to five minutes;
Mrs. Sewall made some bright and vigorous
remarks; and among other speakers were:
Rev. H. A. Cleveland, Mr. John L. Griffiths,
Mr. Augustus L. Mason and Mr, Alfred F.
Potts. Music lent its charm to the occasion.
								Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUPLICATION.

Lord thon who see’st all my heart,
	And know’st my every thought:
Help me to do Thy holy will
	And serve Thee as I ought. 

And when my path seems dark and wild,
	And hope burns low within;
Look down upon Thine erring child,
	And keep my heart from sin.

Help me to bear my daily cross'
	Though it be hard to bear:
Oh! may I feel through every loss
	I've still a Father's care.

And when at length my day’s are passed,
And all the world grows dim
Oh! may I anchor safe at last
	And be at rest with him.
						CHARITY.


[column 1]
PRIDE, HOW SHALL WE DEFINE IT.
	King Solomon says: "Pride comes before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall."
Now since we have fallen to that degree that
our enemies rule over us, (or at least those who
are enemies to this Gospel, and say such a
doctrine shall not exist,) how shall we account
for this change, is pride the cause? Well, you
say it is right to have a becoming kind of pride,
yes pride enough to be decent to be cleanly to
be respectable. 
	If this is pride why did the Lord say "He
resists the proud but He giveth grace to the
humble." I think we can maintain those quali-
ties without a particle of pride.
	In my opinion dignity and self-respect be-
long to the Deity. Did not Jesus say "Be ye
perfect even as your Father in heaven is per-
fect." In this we learn that God is our Father.
Accordingly those who believe this and obey
His commandments will obtain His spirit
which when it is obtained they will find it
gives them dignity and self respect, for these are
attributes of the Diety and not pride as one
may suppose.
	No this is a portion of our Father's char-
acter and naturally we inherit the same; not
only so, but we have an earnest persevering
zeal for the rights which belong to us, this
we saw in the grand parade last winter, but
the Lord can not make saints of proud people,
accordingly our humility must be tested. But
how about this self-respect; we are told by
Jesus that no unclean thing can enter the king-
dom of our Father in heaven.
	No, we must be pure in mind and body; for
it is written, First Epistle of John 3 chap. 3
verse "Every man that hath this hope in Him 
purifieth himself, even as He is pure. This
then is a portion of our Father's character and
not pride as many suppose. We must not be-
come filthy, or we would be loathsome objects
not fit to come back into our father's presence.
	He also speaks by the prophet Moses say-
ing to the children of Israel: "Be ye holy for
I am holy.” Strict obedience is required to
keep our feet from stumbling, we see.
	Yet we as a people often use the word pride
quite out of place, because it is not properly
defined by us, you will hear it said I am proud
of this or proud of that, yes proud to belong
to this cause. Is this right? I think
we may be gratified and pleased and delighted
yet not proud at all in all this; what does the
the Savior say, He says "the Lord resists the
proud but gives grace to the humble."
	Can we obtain His spirit then while we har-
bor pride in these tabernacles of ours? I think
not; besides we are in danger of losing that
portion we did obtain when humble, even as
King Solomon did. Do you remember his
dream? (Kings 4 chap. and 5 ver.) The Lord
asks "what shall I do for you?" he told the

[column 2]

Lord he was but a child did not know how to
go out or come in yet, he had need of wisdom,
he had a great people to rule over."
	He then earnestly pleaded for wisdom. The
answer was "Since he did not ask for long life
or riches, nor the lives of his enemies, but
only for wisdom he should have great wisdom,
and also riches." This he realized to the
fullest extent. He was honored and beloved
by all who knew of his wisdom, and heard his
voice, until he forgot God's commands given 
by Moses, saying "there are a people the
Israelites should not mix with, or in other
words should not go unto them neither should
they permit them to come into their domains.”
Yet King Solomon at last ventured to take
wives from these people.
	Now see what vanity did. And St. Paul says
that we are as subject to vanity as the sparks 
that fly upward. This vanity overcame King
Solomon. Read what he says when the Lord
took from him this flow of the good spirit. He
says "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity and
vexation of spirit." Of all the good things
under the sun none was any satisfaction to
him after losing that good spirit which he
once possessed so profusely.
	Now let us bring the subject nearer home.
I remember seeing the effects of vanity not
only once but often. I will only speak of
a friend of mine, a near neighbor who was
talented and had an education competent to
fill positions of trust.
	When he first came to this valley he worked
for the government, (under Cap. Stansburg.)
After this he was Chancelor of Deseret Uni-
versity. And finally one of the Twelve
Apostles. He filled his positions so well he
was called to preside over a branch of this
vineyard; yes several times did he fill this
position. But he became vain. This vanity
led him to do that which the Lord of heaven
and earth has forbidden.
	He not only lost his office but also his stand-
ing in the Church of God, and was cut off.
He was humbled to the dust and truly re-
pented after a time wished to be baptized, I
never knew if this was granted, but I do re-
member what the Savior said to Peter who
asked how often he should forgive, if 7 times,
"Yes," was the answer, "until 70 times 7." Show-
ing you should always give encouragement to the
penitent to forsake evil and cleave unto that
good spirit which gives light and joy and
peace.
	But oh! the mischief that vanity will bring
upon the human family. Each of us can know
this for ourselves. How often we find it like
the weeds on our garden sprining up ere you
are aware choking the good seed which al-
ways is a benefit to the person who possesses
it.
	How earnestly should we pray our Father
for wisdom that we may not be confused and
dark in our minds on this subject or any other,
but that we may know which spirit to cleave
to and which to forsake that we may not be-
come vain and foolish in these last days, when 
so much light and intelligence is requisite to
fill our positions properly.
	Vanity and self-conceit are dangerous pro-
perties. Why should one become vain be-
cause they have arrived at some attainment
which another has not. They may fill another
position the first is not capable of filling.
	Let us reflect and be more wise in the future
than we have been in the past, is the prayer of
		One of the Old Folks.
								MARY.


MONTPELIER PRIMARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	On the morning of June the 1st, 1890 the
children of Montpelier Ward met at the


school house for the purpose of celebrating the
birthday of Pres. Brigham Young.
	After all had assembled, we then set out for
our Montpelier canon, a place having been
selected for our enjoyment. After all had ar-
rived we were called to order by Sister Bunney.
The children sang “Gladly meeting,” after
which prayer was offered by Brother John
Bunney.
	Pres. Bunney then addressed the children
for a short time, told them the reason they
had met, spoke of some of the great and
noble deeds performed by that great and good
man.
	A selection was then read by Rose Hillier,
entitled “The funeral of Brigham Young.”
The forenoon exercises consisted of songs,
recitations, dialogues, readings etc.
	Brother O. Swinson then spoke to the
children, said it afforded him much pleasure
in meeting with the primary children in these
gatherings, endeavored to show them the many
blessings they enjoyed compared with the
children of the outside world.
	The meeting was then adjourned by singing
“I'll be a little Mormon,” benediction by
Brother E. L. Burgoyne.
	The tables were then prepared and after
asking a blessing on the food, it was freely
partaken of by all. The afternoon was spent
in playing games and gathering wild flowers
in which the children enjoyed themselves very
much, at about 5 o’clock we all prepared to re-
turn home with happy hearts and smiling
faces.
					Rose Hillier, Sec.
Montpelier, Bear Lake Co., Idaho.


WIDOWS IN INDIA.
	For a year after the death of the husband
the widow has special rites to perform. For
thirteen days after the funeral she must not
change her clothes. No one pays any atten-
tion to her or gives her a kind word. She
must be content with one meal a day and at
the end of that time her head is shaved. At
certain intervals throughout her life she is ex-
pected to fast and these intervals include two
days of fasting during every month of her
widowhood. During these days she must
touch nothing in the shape of liquid or solid
food, and whether she is sick or well, it makes
no difference. The Hindoos say that the soul
of a man after his death,goes to heaven quickly
and pleasantly in proportion to the sufferings
of his wife during the month after his death.
Consequently the mother-in-law and the rest
of the relatives try to make these sufferings
as great as possible. The widow can never
take part in any festivity, and it would be an
evil omen if she attended a marriage- She
gets no word of pity from the women of the
household, and she is lower than the servants.
Even in death she has not the funeral of other
women. Her body is not burned in the
clothes she has on, and only a coarse, white
cloth covers her as she lies on the funeral pyre.
Her husband, if he would, could not help her
condition. Women cannot inherit property
among the Hindoos, and if any thing is left by
the husband, it goes to the children.
	In the northwest provinces of India, where
the holiest of Hindoos live, the treatment of
the widows is even worse than that described
in the above statement. Here the woman is
often dragged along with the husband’s corpse
to the cremation. She is pushed into the
water and made to stand there, while the body
is burning. She comes home in her wet
clothes and she dare not change them. It
matters not if she be sick, or whether the
weather be warm or cold. She sleeps in these
clothes for thirteen days and she is persecuted
by all.						Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,			EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST	15	1890.


AN INTERESTING TIME.
	In company with Mrs. Jane S. Richards, First
Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H. Young we left this
City on Thursday August 7 to visit the sisters in
Iron County and attend Conference in that Stake
also to visit Beaver Co., and if possible Fillmore
on our return, but finding the distance very long
and it being necessary for us to reach home as
soon as possible, we deferred our visit to Fillmore
and other places in Millard County until another
time.
	We reached Cedar City Friday evening after a
drive of fifty-five miles, and went direct to the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Birkbeck where
several of the sisters were gathered to meet us.
	Saturday we met with the Relief Society of
Cedar and after meeting drove to Parowan ex-
pecting to reach there in time for the children’s
Primary Conference. However we were delayed
on account of a wind storm so that we were
rather late but had an opportunity to hear a great
many of the children’s exercises, singing, recita-
tions etc., and to look upon their beautiful,intelli-
gent faces. There were a goodly number of them
assembled not only those living in Parowan but
from Cedar City, Summit and Paragoonah;
Kanarra not being represented on account of the
diphtheria which we heard was among the child-
ren at that place.
	The President of the Stake and his Counselors
were present, also many of the parents
which must have been very gratifying to those
who labor in these associations, and we were both
very pleased to see the interest that was taken in
the little folks, and the encouragement given to
the sisters, who have charge of these organiza-
tions.
	The following day the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Parowan Stake was held
occupying both the forenoon and afternoon. The
Presidency of the Stake were present also the
Presidency of the Relief Society of the Stake.
We were entertained at the house of Sister
Richard Benson over night and dined at the home
of Brother Morgan Richards, Counselor to Pres.
Jones, with a large number of brethren and sisters.
After the Conference adjourned we visited the
sick and took supper with the President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Parowan Stake, Mrs. Mitchell.
	We drove over to Paragoonah and met with
the Relief Society in the evening, Bishop Jones of
that place and many other brethren as well as
the sisters were present, we had a crowded house
and an excellent meeting. The following morn-
ing we left Iron Co. to go to Beaver where we
were entertained at Pres. J. R. Murdock’s.
	We met with the Relief Society in the evening
in a sort of general meeting; every one was in-
vited and there were about as many men as wo-
men present. The President of the Stake, also

[Column 2]
the President of the Relief Society of the Stake
Mrs. Lucinda Houd were present, and Mrs.
Houd’s Counselor Mrs. E. J. Bennett who is also
Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake, and
the Presidents of the two branches of the Relief
Society in Beaver City, Mrs. Ruth W. Tyler and
Mrs. M. J. Bickley. We noticed in the audience
Elders Daniel Tyler, Wm. Fotheringham, Benja-
man Bennett and other prominent brethren,among
them Brother Shepherd an old-time Elder in
Israel.
	Tuesday morning we left Beaver accompanied
by Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley and met with
the Relief Socity at Minersville at one o’clock,
after having dined with Mrs. Mary E. Lightner;
at her house we saw Mrs. Elizabeth Gilbert one
of the oldest members of the Church, the widow
of Sidney Gilbert prominent in the days of Kirt-
land and also in the persecutions of the Church
in Missouri. Mrs. Gilbert has just passed her
ninetieth birthday Aug. 7, she is not feeble as one
might expect, she talks well, told us she was bap-
tized into the Church in 1830 and had never been
reproved or brought before the teachers or author-
ities in all those sixty years. That is a good
record to leave when she passes away. Mrs.
Gilbert is the aunt of Mrs. Lightner and of Elder
Henry Rollins.
	After our meeting in Minersville we turned our
faces homeward, arriving on Wednesday morning
Aug. 13, having enjoyed our visit and labors very
much indeed and having been everywhere so
kindly and hospitably welcomed. It is exceed-
ingly pleasant and interesting to travel among the
people and see them in their homes and assem-
blies. The Relief Society and other organizations
are doing great good in the midst of the Saints
wherever they are located.


W. S. A. CELEBRATION.
	On the afternoon of Wednesday the 23rd of
July, the same day that Wyoming celebrated her
statehood, the W. S. A. of Utah assembled in
Liberty Park, Salt Lake City to honor the occa-
sion, and rejoice in the good fortune of their
sister Territory and with the women of Wyoming
that they had obtained political freedom. The
affair was rather impromptu, and hurriedly ar-
ranged; the exercises commenced at 4 p. m.,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball in the chair.
	A song from a French opera by Miss Alice E.
Bridewell of New Orleans gave spirit and a tone
of vivacity to the proceedings, her rich clear voice
rang out among the tall and stately trees, full of
melody and sweetness. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read
in excellent voice and pleasing manner a brief
speech written by her sister Mrs. Susa Y. Gates
who was not well enough to attend the gathering.
	“That women are today shouting the Battle Cry
of Freedom in unison with Wyoming’s glad
triumph, surprises no one! Yet, if the veil of the
future could but be torn aside, for every cry given
by woman man would send a thousand fuller,
deeper notes of joy into the echoes of Eternity.
Can he with eyes fail to see that for every step
gained by the mother, the son will leap a rod
beyond. Every inch of width, every foot in
height which you add to the home walls of the
mother,deepens and broadens in four fold measure
the natures nurtured beneath her eye. When will
men understand this? “You cannot gather figs
from thistles,” but how well the delicate peach
repays the years of cultivation, which brought
the acrid plum from the steppes of Russia to hang
in rosy lusciousness on southern walls.
	To vote, means not alone the right to drop the
ticket in the ballot box. It means a gate open-
ing on a thousand avenues, which lead to peace
and equality. It is because those few brave wo-
men so many years ago at Seneca Falls walked

[Column 2]
up and demanded entrance at the gate, that we-
men have since scaled the barrier and have en-
tered the paths of Surgery, Law, Mercantile and
other pursuits all leading outward from this gate.
	Does it unfit men for husbands and fathers to
cast their votes? Does it unfit them as hod-
carriers, brick-layers, as Senators as physicians.
Why then should it unfit woman for her various
occupations?
	The one object to be gained in educating men
or women is to make them think. The educated
few have always ruled the ignorant many. But
now with the opening wedge drived into the iron
wall of prejudice by the bold hand of Wyoming,
we may hope to see Education rising, from the
masses even as the clouds from the whole face of
Ignorance watering into life and glory the flowers
of Thought—equal and independent Thought.”
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then addressed the
ladies present in a very graceful manner, compli-
menting the women of Wyoming upon their
energy and efficiency during the twenty years they
had enjoyed the franchise,and congratulating them
on enjoying equal political rights with men in full
possession of statehood. Said there was no
jealousy in the hearts of the women of Utah to-
wards Wyoming even if they had been disfran-
chised, they rejoiced in the good fortune of their
sister territory; though Utah was her elder sister
and in every way entitled to the same rights and
privileges. 
	Dr. R. B. Pratt was the next speaker, she went
over some of the ground of the opponents of wo-
man suffrage and referred to the weakness of
their arguments, particularly those of Southern
Congress-men. She gave some of her views in
reference to the colored race, and woman’s posi-
tion generally;—the remarks upon the colored
people called forth some statements on the sub-
ject from Miss Bridewell who seemed pretty well
posted on the woman question in the South;
though she had never belonged to a suffrage as
sociation but was a member of a Ladies’ club, and
took a great interest in all matters pertaining to
women; she believed what the Southern women
needed was education on the subject, and the op-
portunities of becoming acquainted with the
merits of the cause; and they would be ready to
take hold of the work. Referred to the chivalry
of Southern gentlemen and their desire to show
woman special respect and honor; but she was
fully aware there were many women who had no
protection, and who consequently must fight their
own way in the world; and how much better to
be qualified and the condition of things adapted,
to such circumstances. Miss Bridewell was
listened to with marked attention; it was so new
to most of those present, to hear a young Southern
girl speak so feelingly upon the question of wo-
wan’s political equality.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt proud of the Territory
and State of Wyoming, she was a suffragist from
principle and believed in equal rights for men
and women, thought woman’s reign had now be-
gun in earnest since the women of Wyoming had
been privileged to become enrolled and were
secure in statehood. South Dakota was struggl-
ing for the same privilege and she believed would
be successful, many able women were there aid-
ing the cause, California donated liberally and
other states were helping on the good work.
	Mrs. Kimball suggested three cheers for
Wyoming which was responded to by all present
joining in the hip, hip, hurrah, which was heartily
repeated.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber rose in response to the
Chairman’s invitation and expressed herself in
sympathy with woman suffrage all over the world,
firmly believed women should have the ballot,
and did not think they would vote for men to be
elected to office because they treated them in a
saloon. Mothers would wish to purify the at


mosphere for their sons and for mankind gen-
erally, and a better condition of government would
exist when women took an equal part in it.
	Dr. E. S. Barney believed in women and their
equality, she thought they would make good
judges, gave a graphic illustration of a stage trip
across the plains at which time the presence of a
lady in the stage coach, had been a sort of equa-
lizer to keep things moderate. Her idea as far as
progress was concerned was that women were in
advance. and certainly in charity which was the
acme of good.
	Mrs. C. Chapin of Ohio believed in woman
suffrage, said it had not been agitated in the town
where she lived, but she had been much interested
in it since she came to Salt Lake.
	The Chairman Mrs. Kimball made a brief ad-
dress and announced that a dispatch had been for-
warded to Mrs. M. E. Post at Cheyenne Wyom-
ing, the following is a copy.
	"The women of Utah send joyful greetings and
congratulations to their favored sisters of Wyom-
ing. Utah is proud of her little sister and recog-
nizes woman suffrage as the brightest jewel in her
crown of Statehood."
	The telegram was signed by Mrs. Kimball, as
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and endorsed by the members here and
will be we are perfectly sure by all the thousands of
women in Utah who believe in equal rights. The
Chairman then announced refreshments and the
ladies arranged the tables and benches.
	Near Mrs. Kimball was a box which had not
been opened, after all the guests were seated Mrs.
Kimball opened the box and displayed a dainty
little silver tea set with tray, this she presented to
Mrs. Dye, who sat opposite, with these words:
	"Mrs. Dye: The ladies of the W. S. A. of Salt
Lake City have assigned to me the pleasure of
presenting to you in their behalf this silver Tea-set
which we ask you to accept as a testimonial of
appreciation and love."
	Mrs. Dye though taken unawares made a grate-
ful response thanking the ladies for their beauti-
ful remembrance and telling them her lawn and
grounds were open to them any time in the future.
	A bright and animated discussion of the wo-
man question was kept up while partaking of the
refreshments, and soon after the company dis-
persed, having spent a few delightful hours in
very proper recognition of the victory achieved
for women not only in Wyoming but for the cause
everywhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Letters received from President Zina D. H.
Young since her arrival in Canada inform us of
her improvement in health and that she has at-
tended meetings of the sisters there and is enjoy-
ing, her visit among the Saints. She does not ex-
pect to remain away from here very long, will
probably return early in September.
	On Friday the 18th of July in company with
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, we attended the Relief
Society Conference of Davis Stake held at Kays-
vllle. Mrs. Susan Grant President, and her
Counselors Mrs. Mary S. Clarke and Mrs. Lucinda
Brown were present, also many other leading
sisters and some of the brethren of that Stake.
There was a representation from the Relief
Society of nearly every ward and their reports
made a good showing. We dined at Mrs. Sarah
Layton’s Pres. of the Relief Society of Kaysville,
and had a very pleasant time of social conversa-
tion. Mrs. Layton is in delicate health, but
spiritually alive to her duties in the office to
which she has been called and set apart. The sisters
in that Stake seem to appreciate the privileges of
the organization, and to be making good progress
in their work.


Mrs. Rachel Grant gave a sketch of the Relief
Society in Manassa where she had been visiting
recently, and of the disadvantages under which
the sisters labor who are so far from the centre
stake of Zion. The day was an Interesting one
and we trust profitable to all those who attended
the meetings.
	On account of circumstances which it was im-
possible to control and which cannot be explained
here, there was no issue of the paper on the first
of this month, although the number of the paper
will be the same as if it were dated August I, and
the volume will contain the twenty-four num-
bers, as we shall make up the missing one during
the year, so that no one of the subscribers need
feel wronged, and we earnestly solicit a greater
interest on the part of agents and Presidents of
the Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
those who are connected with the Woman Suff-
rage Associations, and ask them to take into con-
sideration the fact that the Woman's Exponent
is their organ of representation; that it has pub-
lished in their interest always, and for nearly
eighteen years was also the organ of the Young
Ladies’ Associations. We do not hesitate to say
that it ought to be well patronized by the women
of Zion, whose interests it has ever maintained
and now that the subscription is reduced to one
dollar per year, it must be within the reach of al-
most, if not quite, every home throughout the land.
The Relief Society wherever organized cannot
afford to do without it, because it is their official
organ and all special or general instruction is
given in its columns. Each one learns what
another branch of the Society is doing, as well as
each Stake, and thus they are enabled to work in
greater harmony. There are many reasons why
the paper should be better sustained and more
widely circulated, and we sincerely hope the
sisters in the various localities appreciate the
benefits of having a paper of their own and
will renew their diligence to make it all that they
desire.


HONORING THE AGED.
	On Thursday July 31st, Aunt Mary Snow Gates
was 77 years old. Sister Ann C. McFarlane pre-
pared a little surprise to cheer the aged lady.
Sisters Emma Morris, her Counselors Mary G.
Whitehead, Ann Hardy and a few others took in
a few presents and refreshments to gratify the
taste, pie, cake, melons and grapes etc., it was
really appreciated by the dear old lady whose con-
dition calls forth our sympathy and kindly feel-
ings; she has been comparatively helpless for
about three years from the effects of a paralytic
stroke. She has been a great reader in her time
and her sickness has impaired her hearing and
her eye sight also her speech. She feels very
forlorn through not being able to read as that was
a source of real comfort to her.
								A.C.W.
St. George, Aug. 3, 1890.


[column 1]
THE BITTER AND THE SWEET.
or
OLD FOLKS DAY.

	We often hear this remark: the bitter and the 
sweet are mingled in this probation or life and I
think the remark quite an appropriate one. But
on Old Folks Day it was vice versa, there was
far more aweet than bitter.
	Having arrived at the age of of 70 years I was
anxious to see how many people were living who
crossed the plains 42 years ago; knowing so
many had passed behind the veil during this
period of time.
	I was glad to see the Captain of our company
Bro. George Wallace. He was captain of our ten,
[column 2]
Bro. O. T. Smoot captain of fifty. Both are liv-
ing, Glad also to see Sisters Nebekar and Dewey
or Woolley, they looked charming yet, but their
husbands had passed away and are with eleven of
the apostles, some who were captains of a hundred
wagons and familes. Bro. Taylor was one, Bro.
Parley Pratt was also one. In the year 1847 we
followed the Pioneers. They started in April,
and our companies the first of June. They arrived
July 24th, we about September 15th. But I must
not forget others. One was Perigrene Sessions
and wife I met on this occasion. He begins to
look aged, but his mother who is 96 looks well
yet. I see her faculties are failing however, (she
was not there.) I would not forget to say the young
people who waited upon the tables looked angelic
in their white and bright colored dresses, with a
blue ribbon upon the left arm, and a white cap
with a blue bow etc. but their countenances
brightest of all beaming with love and admiration
while serving so gracefully at the tables. At
one time after all was over, the music struck up a
tune which gave animation to the young people;
the isles were alive with many of the girls, two
and two waltzing while the tune lasted.
	This shows they were not exhausted by fatigue
on this occasion; although it must have been a
tiresome task to wait upon so many. Four hundred
from the norh besides those from our City and
from the South. It was indeed a great day.
	And what made it still better, were the speeches
from Officials, that honored us with their presence.
I was highly gratified with the speech of our
Mayor George M. Scott, whose remarks I could
hear best. To me it sounded as though every
word he spoke was heart felt.
	Our Governor Arthur L. Thomas seemed in
earnest, but I could not hear distinctly, was glad
to see it in print afterwards which I expected to
do. I was favorably impressed with him when
he was Secretary for Gov. Murray. But realize
that now he is between two fires.
	I noticed Hon. F. S. Richards was applauded
but could not hear why; therefore was glad to
read his remarks knowing as I did that he was
better acquainted with us as a people than the
others who spoke.
	I believe I was more anxious to read Judge
Powers remarks, because I have supposed him
to be our bitter enemy. But I found a great deal
to admire in the article read by him for I noticed
that it was not extempore. I noticed his remarks
were refined and intelligent and respectful to the
aged as a friend to the human family &c. And I
felt to say, could the venom he has manifested
heretofore be extracted from his character he
would make a splendid Latter-day Saint.
	Well, I think this is enough! No not enough.
I was charmed with the hearty good-will with
which which Brother Charles R. Savage gave out the
presents to the old folks who were not able to live
without labor, there were quite a few who re-
ceived presents. But when he called for a man
who had not had a dollar in his pocket for a
month no hands were raised; and again for two
weeks but no hands were raised. This shows
that they were not greedy but rather honorable
men who had lived to become benefited through
the principles taught them by the gospel, which
are uprightness, honor, integrity and truth. These
when perfected will make its possessor a Saint;
because they are the teachings of our Saviour
who was called faithful and true.
			From an Aged One,
							M. E. K.
	July 21st 1890.


R.S. AND P.A. REPORTS.
			Bear Lake Stake.
	The Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake of
Zion, held their semi-annual conference May
31 and June 1 in the Stake Tabernacle


[column 1]
Services commenced by singing "Lord we
come before Thee now." Prayer was offered
by Pres. William Budge, singing again; the
roll was called and minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved; the statis-
tical and financial reports were then read
The various branches of the Relief Society in 
the Stake were represented by the Presidents,
the reports were very complete and satis-
factory.
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting in this beautiful building,
thought it a credit to the stake. She had 
listened to the reports of the sisters with
pleasure, did not know of a time when they
were represented so well, urged upon the
sisters the necessity of attending to their spirit-
ual and temporal duties, hoped we realized our
positons as mothers in Israel to, "do good to
all" made many other remarks comforting and
encouraging to all present.
	Pres. William Budge spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters, said through all our perse-
cutions there is a source of enjoyment which 
man cannot give. The only way we can
stand the assaults of our enemies is by in-
creased diligence. Thought that attending to
the poor was the first temporal labor for the 
sisters to perform.
	Singing "Praise God." Prayer by Elder 
Dalrymple.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., singing "Softly beams the
sacred dawning," prayer by Bishop Price, sing-
ing "Earth with her ten thousand flowers."
The sacrament was then administered.
	Coun Elizabeth Collings said that through
the blessings of God we would be able to stand
all the trials we are called to pass through;
and to gain His blessing we must obey His
laws, mothers in Israel should teach their
children to honor their Father in heaven and
all to whom honor is due. Bore her testimony
to the truth of the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt thankful for a name
and standing in the kingdom of God. "There
is a dark cloud hanging over us, but the Lord
will be on our side if we are energetic in our 
endeavors to serve Him."
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt pleased with the
reports from the young folks, also to have Sister
Alice Rich with us again after her long afflic-
tion and to hear her acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all her sufferings; all the trials we
pass through only help to strengthen our faith.
	Stake Pres. of the Primary Association,
Annie Laker made a few very appropriate re-
marks.
	Pres. Geo. Osmond and Bishop Price each
gave some very good instructions and en-
couraged the sisters in their labors. Singing
"When shall we all meet again." Benedic-
tion by Elder H. Finley. 
	LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec. of Stake R. S.
		UINTAH STAKE P.A.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Primary
Associations of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Stake House, Vernal, June 2nd, 1890. Pres-
ent on the stand; Pres. Abigail Oaks, Second
Counselor, Anne Hacking, Sec. Caroline A.
Stringam of the Stake Officers. Also the
presidents of the several ward Associations, 
with their counselors, members of the Priest-
hood etc. Conference was called at ten o'clock
a. m. by Pres. Oaks: singing by all present,
prayer by a little boy of Ashley Association,
Ashley Bartlett. Singing.
	An excellent programme was then rendered
not one failing to respond. Interspersed
through the programme were reports from the
different associations of the Stake, which were
more than usually favorable.
	The exercises of the children were well nigh
perfect, and if space permitted we would like
to have given them all especial mention. As
[column 2]
it is we will speak of a few of the smaller
children.
	A song by Emma Freestone 6 years of age
of Ashley Ward Association was sung in the
sweetest manner, also a song entitled "The little
Church by the Hill" was sung by four little
girls of Merrill Association. Their voices
chorded charmingly, and it was indeed a joy
to listen to them.
	Two little girls of Mill Ward Association,
Pearl and Myrtle Johnson, aged respectively
four and six years, sang a dear little hymn
about the coming of the Savior, Myrtle ac-
companying on the organ. A song entitled 
"Gentle Smiles" by Willie, Pearl, and May
Timothy of Riverdale Association was sung in
such a lovely manner that pen would fail to
describe the heavenly music. Also a recitation
entitled "Mother's Darling" by Jennie Johnson
a little dot of a girl from the same ward, was
rendered in a most charming manner.
	The opening prayer in the afternoon was
offered by Zina Stringham a little girl of Mill
Ward Association three years of age, her little
voice was heard in all parts of the house, and
the audience responded with a fervent amen at
the close of the prayer.
	"Beautiful Home" was sung by Edie Wardle
of Glines Ward, her father and mother assist-
ing her, Brother Orson Calder accompanying
with organ. This was a beautiful song indeed
sung by well trained voices.
	Instrumental pieces were rendered by child-
ren from the several associations, and without
doubt showed considerable skill.
	Robert W. Winner of Mountain Dell Asso-
ciation gave us a solo on the Violin, which
was highly appreciated.
	Little Zina Hacking, six years of age, sang
"Little drops of water"her father (Pres. James
Hacking) accompanying her on the Organ.
	A dear little couple, Susie Marlow and
Amasa Packard, of Merrill Ward sang very
sweetly together and the recitations, dialogues,
essays, etc., of the remainder of the pro-
gramme were rendered in an excellent manner.
	Bishop George Freestone of Ashley ad-
dressed us during the afternoon. The sub-
stance of his remarks were as follows. Was
highly gratified with the manner in which the
children had recited. Years ago, he had
noticed people that placed their children for-
ward at every opportunity that presented it-
self. Thought at that time they were over
zealous, but had lived long enough to change
his mind. For he could point out children of
these very people that had grown to be noble,
useful members in the kingdom of God. "Our
children if trained when young, are not apt to
depart from the teaching they receive. Our
children have the principles of the Gospel in-
culcated into their minds, from the teachings
they receive in these Primary Associations, 
while older persons are often surprised to find
that they can receive instruction on important
matters from these little children. It is too
much the case, that the greater burden of
training these children, rests with the officers
of these associations, this should not be,
mothers send your children to Primary, go with
them when you can, and always assist the
officers with your faith and prayers and every
means that may be within your power." Felt
to bless all connected with this noble work. 
	Pres. Abigail Oaks, felt well repaid for at-
tending this conference, said that those that
had had the training of the children had done
well, "may we ever train them in truth and
righteousness." Thought that shortly our
house would not begin to hold the children.
	Gave out the next conference for the third
Saturday in September, called for five exer-
cises from each ward, and for reports to be
ready by the 1st of September.
	Thought it advisable for each ward in turn
to lead the singing, and choose the songs for
[column 3]
our ensuing conferences. The Ashley Associa-
tion to choose for the next conference.
	The Stake Officers were then sustained by
unanimous vote as follows, Abigail Oaks, Pres.
Elizabeth Bingham, First, and Anne Hack-
ing, Second Counselors, and Caroline A.
Stringam Sec.
	We felt to tender our hearty thanks to our
Chorister, Brother Thomas Bingham, also to
the Stake Organist, and Brother Orson Calder
their efficient aid.
	The conference closed with singing by all
present and benediction by Pres. James
Hacking.
	It was without doubt the best conference we
have ever held.
			CAROLINE A. STRINGAM, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW IT CAME ABOUT.
		(BY MAUD MULLER.)
	"Watch the baby dear, Mamma will soon be
back." The speaker, a tall graceful figure,
addressed herself to a group of little children,
three in number as they played under the
shade of the trees not far from the door; and
turning hastened through the field, to where
two cows were feeding, they having escaped
from a little pasture close by. And while she 
is in pursuit, allow me, dear reader, to intro-
duce her to you, and give you a little history
of her past. Some eight years before our story
opens, Harry Seawell became acquainted with
"the lovely Flora Mapleton," daughter of
Mathew Mapleton a poor but honest farmer.
They soon became fast friends, and to an ob-
server it could easily be seen, that these oft re-
peated visits meant something more than mere
friendship. It's the old, old story, of love and
marriage! old yet ever new; and friends and
acquaintances felt that it was a good match.
Flora had always been a delicate girl, but her
unbounded love for Harry prevented her from
raising any objections, when he laid his plans
to start a home in a new country sparsely set-
tled; those who have had the experience of
settling new homes, know what this term im-
plies; how, with everything new and strange,
having to temper the elements, subdue the
soil, clear and break up land, make roads,
fences and water-ditches, there is a great deal
of outcome, and but very little income for the
first few years at least.
	But youth and love smiles at such small
trifles, so in course of time our young friends
anchored their little barque firm and fast, in a
rough unbroken country, with its advantages
and disadvantages, life seemed full of sunshine,
no cloud to dim the horizon of their future.
But experience has taught us that no matter
how fragrant the rose, thorns lie hidden under
its foliage, just so with this loving couple.
	Sickness soon visited their humble dwelling,
a little one was added to their number, a poor
weakly little thing, inheriting from that
fragile mother a delicate constitution, and
like some lovely flower blossomed to day to
droop and die to-morrow. These were sad days
for the young parents. But all this was bu-
ried, thro' the anxiety and care that was now
given to the young mother; for days and weeks
her life was despaired of, many times the fond
husband feared his home would be made deso-
late by the loss of his companion; but after
many weeks of watching, she passed the
crisis, and 'twas with joy her friends nursed
her back to health again. Although but a
wreck of her former self, she was in time, able
to attend to her household cares. When his
wife had regained her health, and Harry had
time to look about, he found he had become
so deeply involved, that he would have to seek
work where he could obtain the means to ex-
tricate himself with. This of course could not
be obtained at home, for money was scarce.


He could see no other way than to leave home,
and go in search of work where he hoped soon
to get enough to pay all his debts, and build
a comfortable home for his wife. He laid his
plans before her, painting them in glowing
colors and she, the same good patient loving
soul ! shut her feelings in her heart and bid
him God Speed! and he was gone! gone, and
she was alone, without the kind husband to
soothe her when sleep would leave her pillow.
but she stood it bravely this little heroine of
ours and waited patiently weeks and months
for his return.
	And Harry what of him, day after day he
tried in vain to obtain work, one misfortune
after another overtook him, and finally after
months of disappointment and bad luck he
wended his way homeward, to receive that
encouragement from his darling, which she so
stood in need of herself. But in this case as
in all cases of adversity the woman was the
stronger, she was ready to receive him with
words of cheer, and laid all manner of plans
for the future.
	But nothing could throw off the despondency
that settled down on Harry Seawell; nothing
but himself. And this he seemed utterly
unable to do. He knew that he had failed to
obtain that which would make his family
comfortable. He would look at his patient
little wife notice her wasted form caused by not
having the necessary food till at times it seemed
he would go mad; at such times he would
feel that her smile or words of cheer were
only a reproach. Years went on and as mis-
fortune does not come single-handed, things
went from bad to worse. It seemed as if
she had laid her merciless hand so heavily up-
on him, that he could not get from under the
grasp. Three little ones now shared their
home. To be sure they were a comfort,and no
fonder father or mother lived than Harry and
Flora Seawell. It was this great love for them
that made poverty so hard to bear.
	To think they were in need of the comforts
of life, and he unable to supply their wants
was more than he was able to endure, and at
times might have been tempted to a rash or
desperate act, had it not been for the cool-
headed, patient wife that never murmured.
Although it was selfish for him to put so much
upon her yet he did it. He did not seem to
realize that these fits of despondency made it
harder for her to bear although she never
reproved him.
	If he had been the strong noble man he was
when he took her from her father’s door, he
would readily have seen his course was kill-
ing her. Not that he meant to be cruel to her
but he had become so used to complaining,that
he looked on the dark side of life and could
see no bright side in the future. And in fact
did not appreciate the many little blessings
that came to him daily.
	They had chosen for their building spot for
their future home an elevation on their land
where you could see in the distance the thrifty
little village that was rapidly growing, and
bid fair to be a flourishing town in the near
future, near by is the creek, whose banks are
shaded by trees and underbrush. ’Tis a cool
retreat from the rays of the scorching sun, and
the murmuring of the water as it glides over
the pebbles below, lulls you off to a forgetful-
ness of the cares around you. Near this in-
tended home is a large canal running thro’
Harry’s land that he not only uses, but 'tis for
the benefit of those who own land miles below
his own. While preparing to build, and, to
make his family as comfortable as possible, he
formed a rude shelter among the heaviest
underbrush and trees; to protect them from the
heat of summer,and the winter blasts. There-
fore the house was between the river and canal,
with the hills half a mile distant for a back-
ground. A beautiful little spring enhanced
[Column 2]
the value of his property, and was a great
prize to the family. A nice lucern patch
which supplied his stock with feed for the
winter,was another blessing attached to Harry’s
farm. But under the existing circumstances
Harry was unable to appreciate these blessings
as he might otherwise have done, he could
not see that in the future this would bring
him many returns for his unceasing labor.
It was the present wants that absorbed his
mind making him feel poorer than he really
was. Poor Flora. It made her very un-
happy to see her once cheerful husband give
way to these melancholy moods.
	It darkened their home and many times
this poor wife would pray that some day,Harry
would be his own dear self again. It came
sooner, and in a way she little dreamed of.
The morning on which our story opens,Harry
started to the canyon for a load of material
for his house. The morning was calm and
clear, nature had on her loveliest dress, the
fragrance of the wildrose, the fields of waving 
grain, the sweet, clear notes of the meadow-
lark,bespoke the goodness of an Allwise Creator.
Harry could not help but partake of this
sweet influence,as he rode along. Time passed
very busily for Flora, she sang a sketch of a
favorite song as sbe did up the morning’s work.
Harry had been more cheerful this morning
than usual. and her thoughts were so taken up
with this, and her labor, that she did not go
to the door for some time, when at last she did
it was with no little surprise that she noticed
an approaching storm! the sky had become
overcast with dark and threatening clouds her
first thought was of the children and as she
hurried to the spot where they were at play,
she spied her cows feeding outside of the en-
closure.
	Finding the little ones all right, with the
injunction to watch baby she was gone. She
hurriedly corralled her cows and made her way
back to the house. As she neared the house,
she noticed the baby was not with the children
she quickened her steps, at the same time look-
ing in all directions but did not see the little
one. She hurried to the spot and breathless
with excitement exclaimed, “The baby! chil-
dren wheres the baby?” They looked up in
amazement; of course they had not seen it go
did not know anything about it. Had it
followed her, and she had not seen it! Wild
with excitement she hurried to the river! O
what if he had fallen in and perhaps this very
moment was being washed away from her!
The thought lent her strength, it seemed that
her feet did not touch the ground! still it
seemed ages to that crazed mother,she reached
the bank at last, she scanned the river up and
down, but could see nothig of her baby. He
must have fallen in and floated down the
stream! The thought no sooner entered her
mind than she was off. Down the banks she
ran over rocks, thro’ the brush shrieking at
the top of her voice! “O my baby! my baby!”
The thought that he might have sank impelled
the wretched mother to plunge into the stream
feeling for the little body she knew must be
there somewhere. The excitement must have
taken wings for the news went out, that Flora
Seawell’s babe was lost, men women and chil-
dren, came upon the scene, then the search
began in earnest. Every spot where they
thought he could get, they searched it
thoroughly. Men searched the river with pitch-
forks, hoping to catch the dress of the little
one; to make the scene more impressive, the
storm burst upon them in great fury. The
rain came down in torrents; but they never
relinquished their energy: little ones worked
with a will, they crossed the canal thinking
it might have walked the plank that reached
across its banks, and off towards the hills as
if some unseen power was urging them on,at
every step calling him by name; when O
[Column 3]
joy! under a bush weeping bitterly; they
found the little one drenched to the skin but
alive and well. It did not take long to re-
turn with their treasure, to the anxious
workers; but now the babe was found where
was the mother? They hurried down the
stream, shouting their success at every breath.
Far down the stream they found her a
picture once seen never to be forgotten. Her
hair hanging down her back, her eyes start-
ing from their sockets, wringing her hands,
and screaming as one bereft of reason. “My
baby is lost! my baby is lost!” Stout men’s
hearts gave way, at the sight of that wretched
mother: but when they made known their
success she was overcome with joy. Taking
her tenderly in their arms, they carried her
to the house where gentle hands removed her
wet clothing, put her in bed, and made her
as comfortable as possible.
	Of course the news reached Harry before
he reached home: the joy of that fond father
on beholding his little treasure again no pen
can describe. He was greatly surprised to
see his little wife looking so well. In a day
or two she was herself again. When he
looked at them and thought what might
have been. his better nature was stirred to
the very center. His heart went out in
gratitude to God for the watch-care He had
had over his family, and the restoring of
their little one to them again. He resolved
that with the help of the Lord, and his
patient companion, he would be more worthy
of them in the future. He would try and
look on the bright side of life; and he did:
To day there is no happier home than that
of Harry Seawell’s.
	If clouds loom up in the horizon, he drives
them away with a smile, and fondly gazing
at his little flock will say “I have you all
and I am content.” The change it wrought
upon Harry is noticable to his friends, mak-
ing them happy in his company so the losing
of their babe proved to be (as Flora says) “a
blessing in disguise.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES.
[TO MY DEAR MOTHER ON HER SEVENTIETH ANNI-
					VERSARY.]
	Seventy years have passed away
	Since you first beheld the light of day.
	Our Heavenly Father sent you here
	A widowed mother’s heart to cheer,
	A father’s love you ne'er did know,
	To guide your feet as they should go.
	Some cruel fate his path had crossed,
	And he was to his loved ones lost.
	
	Your noble mother, with grief most wild,
	Found comfort in her darling child;
	And with a mother’s love did strive
	To teach her child how she should live.
	The Gospel light soon bursting forth,
	You both did find and prize its worth;
	And comfort found beyond the grave,
	This Gospel promised souls to save.

	When you had grown to womanhood
	A companion found both true and good,
	Life's battle with him o’er fifty years
	You've shared amid its joys and tears.
	Like other Saints, from home were driven
	For espousing a pure religion.
	Vile, wicked men in mobs arose
	And proved that they were Zion’s foes.

	The martyred Saints full well you knew
	And you're a living martyr, true.
	'Twas thought a battle would take place,—
	Your friends and mobs stood face to face;
	Did you not start to friends to fly,
	With them to live, or with them die?
	And when the flag of truce displayed
	You realized those Saints were saved.


The mission was filled by a noble band.
Freedom's banner waved on this very land.
While you my dear mother, untiringly striving
For your own little ones was gaining a living.
When father returned he did not long rest
'Till he found you a home in the distant West.
'Twas thought, were the Saints on a far off sod,
Their foes would allow them to worship their God.

The Church has grown, thousands gathered,
For saving souls missionaries labored.
Societies formed in Utah's fair land
Are working together with heart and hand
To comfort the sad and aid the distressed
That all the afflicted may truly be blest.
While you, my dear mother, with unceasing zeal
Have ever put your shoulder to the wheel.

Your wise counsels your colaborers heed
And surely are prospered in each valiant deed.
And by their works do honestly prove
They are engaged in a labor of love,
They with your family meet here today.
With hearty good wishes we fervently pray
That your Seventieth birthday all may enjoy
And care and sorrow not come to annoy.
				ALICE M. J. TANNER
Beaver City, U. T., 25th Feb. 1890.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Queen Isabella Association asks Pres.
Palmer to appoint as three of the nine women
commissioners from Chicago, Dr. Julia Holmes
Smith, Dr. Francis Dickinson and Catherine
V. Waite.
	As late as 1850 the number of female 
graduates in medicine could be counted on the
fingers of one hand. To-day upward of 2,000
American women hold a medical diploma, and 
the chance of a first-class medical education is
within reach of any woman who seeks it.—
Baltimore Sun.
	Canon Wilberforce, during his tour in
India, has been speaking with more than his
usual eloquence. He says that there is no sex
in citizenship, and that India should develop
the intelligence of her women. "No nation 
can attain strength that is afraid to educate its
women."
	WATER COOLED WITHOUT ICE.—Where ice
cannot be procured, water may be cooled by
wrapping the pitcher containing it in a towel
of loose texture which has been previously
impregnated with ammonium nitrate (and
dried), and moistening this with water. The
same towel may be used repeatedly, being
dried thoroughly beforehand each time.—
Medical Classics.
	Rev. Robert Laird Collier died of apoplexy
at his country home, "the Everglades," near
Salisbury, N. J. at midnight, recently. He
was stricken with paralysis the night before
and never regained consciousness. Mr. Collier
was born in Wicomico County, Aug. 7, 1835.
Like Saul of old he opposed equal rights until
he saw light; then, like Paul, he heartily es-
poused the good gospel of woman suffrage.
	A Mohammedan woman; a native of Bakshe-
Serai, in the Crimea has recently passed with
flying colors her examination as physician
and surgeon at Odessa, and, having received
her diploma, is now practising medicine among
the Mohammedan ladies of the district
from which she hails. Her name is Dr. Razie
Koutloiaroff-Hanum, and hers is the first case
on record of a Mohammedan lady practising
medicine as understood by Western nations.
Women, too, are now being employed for the
first time by the Government as telegraphic
clerks and ticket agents on the Trans-Caspian
Railroad.
								Ex.
	It is not often that a bride stops while mov-
ing toward the altar, and breaks the line of
[column 2]
the procession of her own sweet will. But
Miss Dorothy Tennant did this on the occasion
of her marriage to Henry M. Stanley the other
day in Westminster Abbey, and walked slowly
to the tablet under which lies the dust of
Livingstone and placed thereon a wreath of
white flowers, in the center of which was the
letter "L" in scarlet. This gentle courtesy in
honor and memory of a departed hero, recalls
what Dickens says of that beautiful trait in
human nature which causes us to remember
most vividly the dead in moments of our
greatest joy and peace. For grace and dignity,
this simple act is unsurpassed. It will be
remembered that Miss Tennant was the model
for Millais' famous picture of "Yes, or No?"
And this counterfeit presentment gives a face
of gentle sweetness and quiet power.
						Woman's Cycle.

	The report on permanent organization of
the Columbian Commission of the World's Fair
at Chicago, proides for a Board of Lady
Managers, consisting of two women and
alternates therefor from each State and Terri-
tory and the District of Columbia, which shall be
known as the Woman's Department of the
World's Columbian Commission, and the
commissioners from each State and Territory
and the District of Columbia shall nominate,
from their respective States and Territories
and the District of Columbia, such lady
managers, and the president of this commission
shall appoint said nominees to said Board of 
Managers, and in addition to the members
from each State and Territory and the District
of Columbia, the president of the commission
may appoint nine women of the City of Chicago
The respective Commissioners at Large shall
in like manner nominate eight women and
Alternates at Large to act upon said Board of
Lady Managers, and that the whole number
of women so nominated and appointed shall
constitute the Board of Lady Managers contem-
plated by the act of Congress. It is further
provided, that the Board of Lady Managers be
constituted officers of the World's Columbian
Commission, and as such shall receive the
compensation of six dollars per diem, and
travelling expenses,the same as the men.
									Ex.


OBITUARIES
	Died at Meadow, Millard Co. Utah,July 8,1890, Sophia
wife of E. A. Beckstrand. She was born at Oland,Sweden,
Oct. 9, 1833, embraced the Gospel and was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1855.
Emigrated to Utah 1861, and was married the same year
to Brother E. A. Beckstrand, in Salt Lake City.
	She was a good wife, affectionate mother and a sincere
friend, and sister. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She leaves a husband and four children to
lament her loss, her eldest son is on a mission to Sweden.

	Death softly came, and bore away
		A sister true, and tried.
	In the calm twilight of her days,
		In faith and hope she died.

	She suffered long, then calmly bent
		To meet death’s fatal blow;
	An arrow sure, in mercy sent,
		To sufferers here below.
					M. A. Y. GREENHALGH,

Meadow, July 11, 1890.

	Died at Payson, April 3rd, 1890, Annie Elizabeth, be
loved wife of John Henry Box; deceased was born July
11th 1813 in Switzerland; embraced the Gospel and emi-
grated in 1876. Lived and died in full faith of the Gospel
and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolutions of Respect adopted by the Relief Society of
the 4th District—Payson.
	To the memory of Sister Annie Elizabeth Box;—
	Whereas; it has pleased our Heavenly Father by the
hand of death to take from us our beloved Sister we bow in


humble submission to the divine will of Almighty God,we
realize in her death we have lost a good woman.
	Resolved; that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society record, also a copy be presented to the bereaved
family and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		LAMECIA A. SCHARRER.
		ANNA JONES,
		EMMA CURTIS.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Gent. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
