VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1890.		NO. 7.


CONTENTS.
	Another Woman’s Thoughts—E. T. Hephzi-
bah. Extracts, Letter from Teton — Emily
Clara Barton—Woman's Journal. How We
Spend Our Time—L. Freeze. R. S. Reports,
Sixth Ward, Logan—E. Townsend. Hunter
Ward. Mrs. Leavitt in Denmark. Extract from
a Letter—L. B. T. Book Notice. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL. The Times in which we are Liv-
ing. Women’s Meetings and Conferences. In-
teresting Items—S. G. R. Agricultural College.
Letter to the Sisters—Zina D. H. Young. To
Publishers. Whittier’s Letter to a Friend. Wo-
man’s Suffrage in Logan.
	POETRY. Love’s Calling—By Lu. Our Coun-
try—J. G. Whittier. The Lady Pioneers—Ellen
Jakeman.


LOVE’S CALLING.
	   		  BY LU.

Long have I called with earnest entreaty,
	Still am kept waiting from morning 'till noon,
Then all the evening, no word receiving,
	All these long days of our beautiful June.
Have you closed the doors of your dwelling,
	Sailed off afar to some strange, unknown sea,
Whose billowy waves, ever repelling,
	Love’s olive branches extended to thee?
Have all the white doves sent thee, gone astray?
	Shall I never hear an echo or tune,
From one poor rover, joyous or sober,
	While bidding farewell to beautiful June?
Perchance you walk the valley of silence,
	Where voices are sealed and language is dumb,
In some far away Utopian island,
	Where never the light of other days come!
Nor e’en shadows of love’s fostering care,
	That surrounded your infant years tender
E’er fall o'er your way like incense of prayer,
	To be treasured in memory ever!
Dear one’s at home that made all things so bright,
	Childhood rambles, o’er hillside and meadow,
Varied sports of each season's delight,
	With the glad Christmas days of December.
Time’s chisel is carving, his hand none can stay,
	Sturdy workman, he tarrieth never!
There's no delay for the grave or the gay,
	With the whole wofld he moves on forever.
The glory of morning blends into noon
	While the shadows of evening soon follow,
Some hopes fondly cherished, perished with June,
	Still we look for a coming "tomorrow."

Atchison, Kan.


OUR COUNTRY.

	[The following poem was contributed by J. G. Whittier
to be read at the reception given to Mrs. Mary C. Logan
by Mrs. D. Lothrop at Hawthorne's old home in Concord,
Mass., Aug. 14, 1890:]

	Our thought of thee is glad with hope, 
		Dear country of our love and prayers;
	Thy way is down no fatal slope,
		But up to freer sun and airs.

	Tried as by furnace fires, and yet
		By God’s grace only stronger made,
	In future tasks before thee set
		Thou shalt not lack the old-time aid.

	The fathers sleep, but men remain
		As true and wise and brave as they;
	Why count the loss without the gain.
		The best is that we have to-day.


No lack was in thy primal stock,
	No weakling founders builded here;
Thine were the men of Plymouth Rock,
	The Puritan and Cavalier;

And they whose firm endurance gained
	The freedom of the souls of men,
Whose hands unstained in peace maintained
	The swordless commonwealth of Penn.

And thine shall be the power of all
	To do the work that duty bids;
And make the people's Council Hall
	As lasting as the Pyramids.

Thy lesson all the world shall learn,
	The nations at thy feet shall sit;
Earth's farthest mountain tops shall burn
	With watchfires from thine own uplit.

Great, without seeking to be great
	By fraud or conquest—rich in gold,
	But richer in the large estate
		Of virtue which thy children hold;

With peace that comes of purity,
	And strength to simple justice due;
So runs our loyal dream of thee:
	God of our fathers! make it true.

Oh, land of lands! to thee we give
	Our love, our trust, our service free;
For thee thy sons shall nobly live,
	And at thy need shall die for thee.


ANOTHER WOMAN'S THOUGHTS.

	Ever since I came to years of understand-
ing I have felt to rebel against woman's un-
just subjection to the powers that be, as I
know that an intelligent thinking woman can
not do the work assigned her and be in 
bondage.  How can a woman bring forth 
obedient children when her heart is seething
with bitterness at her own condition? How can
she teach her own sons and daughters
to revere laws that do not alleviate her
wrongs?  If mankind is to enjoy true freedom
the mothers must be free, but, as E. T. Crane
Watson says, "I do not see that we shall be
greatly benefited by being conspicious in a
political primary meeting, or at the polls." for
I think the root of the trouble lies a great deal
deeper.  Men must have a true love for right 
and justice ere they will accord with woman in
all her rights, and women must be truly worthy
of love and respect, ere good men can accede
them, so I can see no solution of the problem
only through the light that a true religion
can give.  A religion that will purify all from
selfishness, a religion that will desire the
exaltation of all human beings above sin,
sorrow, and suffering, In truth the religion
that comes only from Him who gave His life
to save humanity.
	As we are expecting Christ to come and
reign on earth we have no doubt but that 
woman's cause, with all other just causes, will
ultimately triumph, but the question of to day
is, what is the best method to bring about the
desired result?
	I fear our emancipation is distant, the sub-
ject may be agitated, woman be taught to 
think, may be preparing for the day of deliver-
ance, but not until the Gospel is understood
and has sanctified the human family will
woman obtain her true position.
								E. T.
	Aug. 4th 1890.


HEPHZIBAH.
XXVIII.

	Our lives are full of mystery so deep;
		We cannot fathom all the years may bring,
	The angels have some secrets which they keep,
		We hear the music, not the words they sing.

	Hepsie returned to Nauvoo with a heavy
heart concerning the future of Harold’s rela-
tives.  She felt however that she had dis-
charged her duty, and given them the benefit
of her testimony; and a strong one it was, and
her conscience was clear what ever might trans-
pire in the future, even were Harold to return,
she had left a message with his brother, that
would touch his heart, if he had a spark of
true affection left therein, for he knew how
great a sacrifice she had made in leaving her
home, knew all her aspirations, all her ex-
pectations, and how willing she had been to
endure toil and hardship with him for the
sake of the Gospel, all this Oney would re-
peat to Harold should he ever return.
	The few days that were left Hepsie, after her
return to make final preparations for the
journey into the wilderness (as it was termed)
were very busy  ones; and in fact she did not
give a decided answer to those with whom she
was going, until the night before leaving the
City.  A great mental struggle was going on
in Hepsie’s mind, notwithstanding her outward
composure. Her farewell to her mother was
a terrible ordeal, and yet she went through it
with apparent calmness.  No one ever knew
but herself, what the effort cost her.  Her
mother must not know, she said over and over
to herself.	
	Even after Hephzibah had left Nauvoo, and
had as she supposed, met all the opposition
that could be brought to bear against the
course she was taking, there was still one more
effort made to induce her to remain within the
borders of civilization.
	It is well understood by those acquainted
with Mormon history, that at the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo, the company took away
with them, what was known as the famous
Nauvoo brass band under the direction of
Capt.  Wm.  Pitt. The music of the band
helped to cheer the saints upon their journey,
and while encamped on Sugar Creek dispelled
the first dark hours of gloom that hung over
the saints, who had just left their homes,
orchards, gardens and worldly possessions to
go into a new and uncivilized region, not
knowing what was to befall them, only to trust
in One, whose power is above all earthly power;
and with unswerving faith the leaders of the
Church took upon themselves the task of
searching for a resting place for their people.
	While in Iowa the citizens of Farmington
who knew of their journeyings, (and many of
them had been Mormons and apostatized) sent
for the brass band to come over and give them
some music; it was well known that Pitts’ was
the best band anywhere in the vicinity; and
the Farmington folks were very glad of this
opportunity to have a concert. Accordingly
the band and some of the young people who
were singers consented to this arrangement.
The occasion was quite a jovial one consider-
ing all the peculiarities of the circumstances.
	Hephzibah was one of the invited guests,
and as she realized it was perhaps the last time
she would have an opportunity of participat-
ng in an entertainment of the kind for a long


[column 1]
time to come, she consented to make one of the
party.  She was not prepared however for what
followed. She had forgotten all about the
Sw—y's and their going over  to Farmington
to settle, and was utterly surprised when during
the afternoon one of them came up to her un-
awares, and in a voice that seemed familiar
accosted her with, “Say, Mrs. Harvey how
came you here with these wandering Pilgrims?
We had never heard a word of you since we
left Nauvoo just before that Christmas, and we
all thought you had gone back East to your
own folks by this time, say, where have you
been and why didn’t you write? We’ve talked
a heap about you, Charlie has never got over
leaving you there, nor none of us for that
matter.”
	Hepsie was so astonished and overwhelmed
that she could scarcely reply at all, but she
managed to tell him she was on her way to the
great Western wilderness with the company of
the Saints, and that she had perfect faith in
the enterprise, and should not falter whatever
might come.
	The young man who was no other than one
of Harold’s former partners in business, urged
and entreated Hepsie with all the persuasive
eloquence he possessed to stay there, “You’ll
die of the perils and hardships by the way-
side, and it will be your own fault, you could
teach here and get a splendid salary, stay
with us, mother would be so pleased to have
you once more, she never tires of praising you,
talks of your wonderful memory, your patience
and forbearance, and your utter helplessness,
though so young, yet so enthusiastic in religion,
that you would not listen to those who were
older and wiser.  Why mother says your read-
ing was like poetry, and your songs so full of
sympathy that tears were the only expression
of her appreciation. O, Mrs. Harvey do stay
with us I offer you everything, my home, my
heart, I shall never love any body as I love
you, never, tho' I never dared to say so even 
to myself, because you were the wife of my
friend, but believe me I love you as I never can
love again.”
	With all Hepsie's experience and her theories
on the subject of love, this was too much for
her, she was so embarrassed that she could not
reply, her cheeks seemed all aflame, her lips
were dry and tongue parched, she felt as if she
was going to faint, but tears came to her re-
lief, and were more potent than any mere
words could have been. “O, I see  said
Hezekiah you cannot forget Harold, he was good
and noble and your ideal, but I feel sure he is
dead, we never hear from him; why do you go
away with this great sorrow in your heart?"
	By this time Hepsie had regained her
voice and thanking the young man for his
kindness of heart and telling him to marry
some one, who could give him her whole heart
and undivided affection, she tried to break off
the conversation, but he persistently refused to go
and added, “Mrs. Harvey if you ever want a
friend, if you should grow tired of a wanderer’s
life, let me know, there are three of us and we
would each one of us be willing to leave all
else for you.” This was Hepsie's moment and
she improved it,—"would you give up all else
and come back to the faith and travel with the
Saints into the wilderness for my sake?” Well,
no, not that Mrs Harvey that could not be,
we have renounced Mormonism you know, we
could not go back to that."
	"Well that proves that your love is selfish 
shallow and not genuine.  Love does not stop
for sacrifices, it suromunts every obstacle, it is
self-denying.  We must part, I shall go back
to the Camp tonight, and tomorrow we shall
pursue our journey Westward, what awaits me
I know not, but my faith in the future of my
people is unshaken, heaven help those, who
doubt and faint by the wayside.”
	And now dear patient reader we must bring
[column 2]
this story to a close, it is a true one, and there-
fore you cannot expect it to end with the same
sort of glowing highly colored denouement as 
a sensational novel, but if you have followed
the principal character in the story, and taken
in all the details and episodes, you will have
startling facts enough with a vivid imagina-
tion to conjecture a sequel equal to that of many
of the romances of modern times, and this the
writer will leave each of you to follow out,
his or her own inclinations in the matter, and
settle Hephzibah's future as you may think
proper to decide from the testimony given.
	There are one or two main points that
should be stated in the closing chapter, as they
really relate to the moral of the story itself.
After Hepsie parted with her mother to come
across the Mississippi—she never did see her
again she died of the hardships when the
Saints were driven out of Nauvoo in the sum-
mer of 1846, and was laid in an unknown grave
by the wayside, which fulfilled Mrs. Hathaway’s
words and affirmed the presentiment. Harold
never returned but died at sea and was buried in
the ocean, according to his brother's presenti-
ment, and the fore-shadowing of Hephzibah
when a child.  His parents never returned to
the Church and his brother died very young,
no doubt Hepsie thought, because it was im-
possible with his disposition to rise above the
opposition he had to contend with; he sank into
a sort of melancholy and went into a decline.
He was a beautiful character but lacked the
strong elements necessary to battle with un-
pleasant surroundings.
	The school-mates of Hepsie for whom she
had such a strong attachment early in life did
not all marry Ministers, or Doctors, or Lawyers
or men with high sounding titles, as they had
declared they would, in fact two or three of
them still live in single blessedness to this
day, and visit among their cousins and rela-
tives, and are very sedate and proper.  Jane
the Esquire’s daughter, plain and unpreten-
tious as she was married a rich man, “away
down in Maine,” who afterwards figured con-
spicuously in politics at home and finally went
as Senator from his State to Congress.  Miss
Fay whose Christian name was Mehitable as
Hepsie once explained to her sister Hannah,
and who dubbed Hepsie as “the girl in panta-
lettes,” failed to secure the one she loved
and married in haste to repent at leisure, and
instead of wealth and position, she was obliged
to earn her own living and adopted the stage
as a profession.  Lucy (Reynold’s) Mrs. Adams
and her husband kept the faith, and though
they did not leave Nauvoo with the first
company they were among the first to locate
in the valley of the Great Salt Lake and lived
and died true to the principles they had em-
braced in their youth.
	The young college graduates in whom
Hepsie and Lucy took such an interest, both
apostatized before the Saints left Nauvoo, and
went back East one to practise law and the
other medicine.
	Many of the incidents written here proved
prophetic, and there are those living who
could testify to the same, but as we are not
dealing specially with this matter we leave it
to the intuition of the reader.  That there is
a Providence that over-rules and controls our
destinies is an undeniable fact, and yet we are
left our free-agency paradoxical as it may
seem.  It is not predestination, but it is the
guiding power of Him who holds the destinies
of men and of nations, that we can rely upon,
if we put ourselves in the position to obtain
His favor and support.  He leaves us free to
choose the good and refuse the evil,if we will;
add He knows how to bring us nearer to Him
by chastening and through fiery trials, and
yet He will not forsake us but will be our
ever-present help in time of need. The most
beautiful characters are those that have been
[column 3]
purified through suffering and have borne it
patiently.
		"For gold must be tried by fire
		And a heart must be tried by pain."
	The lessons that Hephzibah learned out of
the schools were very difficult, but they were a
much higher grade than those taught in the
halls of learning.  She had talked largely of
love while very young, and she had sipped
a little at the spring she had thought over-
flowing with the precious draught, just enough
to taste its sweetness, but behold it had turned
to bitterness afterwards, and even the cup from
which she drank was tarnished, and so she
cast it aside that her lips might not be
cankered, and it is not strange if after such
bitter experiences in her search for a pure and
enduring love, she was wise enough to know
the true metal from the glittering and showy
enameled tinsel, and to be able to choose wisely
in her riper years, and to teach some vital
truths to those who had not the same oppor-
tunities of gaining wisdom, or of knowing how
near the false can imitate the true by having
had so striking a contrast.  Having known
the bitter Hepsie ought certainly to have drank
freely of life's sweetness, but alas, how often are
the bitter and the sweet strangely commingled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.
LETTER FROM TETON.
	This is a beautiful country. The Teton
Basin is 15 by 35 miles in area; the close sur-
rounding mountains are covered with the pine
and quaking-asp; the flowers here are too
numerous to mention, but the very sweetest
wild blooms I ever beheld.
	The Teton Peaks are 13,335 ft. in height, 
and when lit up by the deep gorgeous hues of
the sunsets here, they make the most beauti-
fully imposing sight I ever saw in my life.
I just love this ranch-life, and I often think
how thoroughly you would enjoy the wild, free
independent mode of living. Just imagine
great stretches of pasture-land with the large
bands of horses, the fierce herds of cattle, 
(some of the latter are so very wild that one
is not safe a half mile from the house.)
	The cozy log cabins are miles and miles
apart; to visit, we go horse back or in the 
cart.
	Game is very abundant. Elk, deer, moose,
bear, goose, duck, chicken, etc; and the finest
of trout abound in the lovely Teton river and
many canyon streams. All kinds of berries
are here, too.
	 I am enjoying plenty of horse-back riding, 
the shortest ride I have had yet was 16 miles;
last time I rode 25, and next time I expect
to start on a four day's horse back trip into
the mountains, there is a crowd going to Jack-
son's Hole, on the other side of the peaks, 150
miles from the Yellowstone Park.
	*		*		*		*
			Ever your friend,
							EMILY.
Aug. 28, 1890.


Do good by stealth, and blush to find it
fame.—Pope.

	Those who propagate evil reports frequently
invent them; and it is no breach of charity to
suppose this to be always the case, because no
man who spreads detraction would have
scrupled to produce it; as he who would diffuse
poison in a brook would scarcely be acquitted
of a malicious design, though he should allege
that he received it of another who is doing
the same elsewhere.—Adventurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE LADY PIONEERS.

	[Written for the celebration of Pioneer Day at Ephraim
Sanpete Co., July 24, 1890.]

	This day is ours.  'Twill ever live in story
		That first thy founders, Utah, saw thy face.
	Happy the man whose name is clearly written, 
		On thy fair scroll and in an honored place.
	They sowed the seed whose harvest we shall reap,
		They laid our sure foundations broad and deep.

	But man come not alone—a conquering hero
		To pioneer this land, our Deseret,
	But true and brave, and his own strength completeness
		Woman shared the toil and each privation met.
	"Dwell not alone Oh man" for Heaven decreed it
		Earth has not changed much though it’s older grown,
	And it is true—reluctant sound to own it
		Man never did accomplish much alone.

	And have you ever heard in song or story
		The names of those our Lady Pioneers
	Who left their homes to share in unknown sorrows.
		Of hunger, weariness, and trembling fears?
	Each shared the toil; drank the same cup of sorrow,
		Lifted like burdens as the man whose name,
	Wreathed with her sweetness, grace and holy fervor
		Is written in the book of lasting fame.

	And Harriet Wheeler Young, born in New Hampshire
		First on the list as lady pioneer,
	And Clara Decker Young her fair, pure daughter,
		Bride of a prophet in her sixteenth year.
	And Ellen Sanders Kimball from far Norway,
		Called by the voice of God her part to fill,
	Children of destiny these three fair women,
		Who gave their lives up to His holy will.

	Now don’t infer from what I’ve said of sweetness
		These women sat down and let men do the work.
	Things wouldn’t have been done with such completenes
		If they had been the kind to faint and shirk.
	Beside his plane and chisel stood her scissors
		His ax, her broom; his scythe, her buzzing reel;
	She matched against his harrow, plow and saddle,
		The labors of her loom and spinning-wheel.

	Their hands were white, but not too white to toil,
		Their garments coarse, but made them seem more fair,
	Their voices clear, lifted in songs of praise,
		Thrilled into rapture all the desert air.
	And their reward was love's untarnished flame,
		And in their souls the peace of those who’ve trod
	With all Christ’s armor on day after day,
		Unshodden through the Holy House of God.

	They wisdom learned close to the fountain-head,
		Drank righteousness as from a flowing cup;
	Grew in a holy faith so strong and firm,
		They loved not sin; Death called no terrors up.
	They gave to earth a race of human souls
		So pure from taint, so free from earthly dust,
	The angels sang for rapture in the skies,
		And God placed in their hands a holy trust.

	While we accord to man all of his own,
		And with the laurel crown his kingly brow;
	Do not forget the mothers of the men
		Who are the hope and pride of Zion now,
	Those fair, fine vessels whom love and sacrifice
		Prompted to drink privations bitter cup,
	"If man is King, then woman is his Queen."
		And to his side let fame now lift her up.
							ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[column 1]
			﻿CLARA BARTON.
	In military circles throughout the world, Clara
Barton is the best known of American women.
A daughter of Massachusetts, a noble repre-
sentative of the so-called "superfluous women"
of the commonwealth, her life record is one of
patriotic service.
	To Miss Barton belongs the credit of having
assisted in organizing the public school system 
of New Jersey.  She organized a public school
at Bordentown, N.  J.  She began with six
 cholars in a dilapidated old house with capacity
sor twenty, and at the year's end had 600

[column 2]
pupils in a fine brick building, newly erected
for her at a cost of $4,000.
	Her health failing, she went to Washington
City to recuperate, the climate there being 
favorable for her recovery.  About 1854
Judge Mason, Commissioner of Patents, offered
her a clerkship in his office, because she could
be trusted to keep the secrets of the office, and
not sell them, to the injury of applicants for
patents, as some of his men clerks had done.
She was the first woman to be regularly
employed as a clerk in any of the departments
at Washington, and great was the consterna-
tion among the government employees when
her name went on the pay roll.
	Miss Barton was the only woman who
served through the Civil War with neither
pay nor commission, first going back and forth
on the Potomac boats, taking the men as they 
come from the battle-field with blood and mud
dried upon their persons, and getting them
ready for the hospitals, and afterwards doing
a similar service in the camps.  On Morris
Island, during the siege of Fort Wagner,  she
was the only woman, and she stayed at her
post until bad water and exposure made her
dangerously ill.  Military records and the
memories of veterans are full of her acts of
kindness, in caring in woman fashion for the
sick and wounded- She was Gen.  Butler's
famous "Lady in charge of the hospitals at the
front," in 1864.  The next year she went to
Andersonville to identify and mark the graves
of Union soldiers.  In all these offices she
showed unusual executive ability and undaunt-
ed courage, tempered by the gentleness of a
loving, compassionate and refined woman.
	In 1870 she engaged in her splendid work
in the Franco-German War, and all the nations
of Europe rang with her praises and did her
honor.  The Grand Duchess of Baden, herself
a great philanthropist,  made her chief assist-
ant in the preparation of the military hospitals.
Here she first became acquainted with the
work of the Red Cross Society, and at once
united in it.
	Miss Barton came back to her native land 
and organized the Red Cross Society of
America, and was, very deservedly, made its
president. By a treaty of nations, her society
as well as the European original, is recognized,
and its agents are exempted from the restric-
tions placed upon travel, and in time of war
from most of the regulations concerning
communication between hostile camps.
	In 1883 Gov. B. F. Butler appointed Miss
Barton Superintendent of the Reformatory 
Prison at Sherborn Mass., giving her full
control and accepting her as her own bonds-
woman.  Miss Barton accepted this position
reluctantly, and in response to the entreaty of
Gov.  Butler and of many philanthropists that
she should aid that noble work in a time of
emergency and trial.  So satisfactory was
her administration that the Legislature re-
commended that the offices of treasurer and
steward, which had always been filled by men,
should be merged into that of the superintendent,
and that Miss Barton be appointed to fill the
triple office;
	In 1884 Clara Barton and her society were
given charge of relieving the sufferers by the
Ohio and Mississippi floods;  She was sent as a
delegate to the International Peace Congress
held at Geneva in the same year.  The United
States paid her the distinguished honor of
requesting her to write the "History of the
Red Cross Society," with which she complied,
and it was printed by order of Congress.  After
the great fires in Michigan, the cyclones in
Texas, the Charleston earthquake, and the
awful calamity at Johnstown, Clara Barton
and the sisterhood of the Red Cross were
earliest at the scenes of distress, and unhesitat-
ingly the people put themselves under their
administrative generalship.

[column 3]
	Wherever flame or flood or pestilence bring
death and disaster to American homes, Clara
Barton plants the banner of the Red
Cross.
	The life of this plain, simple unpretentious
and self-sacrificing woman is one of the
grandest monuments to charity and merciful
kindness the world has witnessed. She will
pass away, but the work and example of such
a life will never depart from among the races of 
men.
	Sumner once wrote of Clara Barton: “She
has the talent of a statesman, the command of
a general, and the heart and hand of a 
woman.
					Woman's Journal.
	Boston.


LYDIA E. BECKER. 
	The friends were shocked by the telegraphic
announcement, Saturday July 19, of the death
of Lydia E. Becker, of diptheria, at Geneva,
Switzerland.
	Miss Becker was one of the leaders of the
woman's suffrage movement in England, and
well known on that side as an able persistent
advocate of equal rights for women. She was
the editor of the Woman's Suffrage Journal at
Manchester. This she conducted with a
single eye to secure parliamentry suffrage for
women. She watched the acts of parliament,
often going up to London during the sessions
and sending immense petitions for her favorite
measure. She regularly published the par- 
liamentary debates in her Journal, thus pre-
serving the history of this important move-
ment as it has gone on in England.
	She will be greatly missed from the suffrage
ranks and from suffrage work in England.
Her co-workers there will receive the warm
sympathy of the friends of the cause every-
where in the sudden and untimely death of
Mrs. Becker.						L.S.

	I have a very distinct remembrance of Miss
Becker as I saw her in the summer of 1872,
and from this may be allowed to make a brief
personal mention of her.
	At the time of which I speak she was very
prominent in the woman suffrage movement
and as its advocate was one of the most consider-
ed and respected. I heard her speak in public
once or twice. The first time was, I think,
at a crowded meeting in St. George's Hall,
London, at which Prof. Playfair, now Sir
Lionel, of that name,presided. 	
	She spoke with weight of thought and
assurance, and impressed me as a person who
had given much study to social problems. Her
voice had the pleasant English ring, the imita-
tion of which causes come of our elegantes to
gurgle and almost to choke, American throats
not answering to so deep an intonation. She
was, as I remember, of medium height and
over, stout, with a complexion neither dark
nor light, but indicating vigor of temperament;
her dress was careful and in good taste; her
greeting of the American suffragists frank and
friendly.
						JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman’s Journal.


Mrs. Hannah Sullivan, who has just died at 
Newcastle, Wy., at the age of 111 years, is 
said to be the only woman centenarian who
ever voted.
	"Why is it," asks Col. Higginson, "that the
American magazines have marched in solid
column into England, and displaced the English
magazines?" It is because the American
magazine is a magazine. It brings people 
together- It is a place of comprehension.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1,00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			  PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]
	THE TIMES IN WHICH WE ARE
				LIVING.
	There are many notable events now transpir-
ing with this people that cause the Latter-day
Saints to reflect seriously upon their situation and
to look unto the Lord for His special guidance in
passing through what has been very appropriately
termed “the narrows.”
	The attempts made by the government of this
great and free Republic to dispossess the Church
of the means appropriated by the people for
special and legitimate purposes, pertaining to the
the interests of its spiritual growth (which always
embraces more or less the temporal) and to con-
strue everything that is done of a public nature
into an effort on the part of this people to support
polygamy, or encourage disloyalty to the Union
seems so utterly inconsistent when considered in
the light of reason and common sense, that one
would naturally think people of ordinary intelli-
gence would see at once that there was a mystery
underlying the whole transaction and would wish
to honestly arrive at some conclusion of the real
causes that had led to this religious crusade for
such indeed it is.
	In this enlightened age of the world’s civiliza-
tion and in America the cradle of religious liberty,
it is more than passing strange, if persecution
can be tolerated by a people of advanced
thoughts and ideas. As a sweeping assertion the
saints are familiar with the actual cause. It is the
Church of God. Its influence is being felt, and
great changes are being wrought and “everything
that can be shaken will be shaken,—so said the
prophet.”
	The evil one seeks by all the means in his
power to overthrow the true Church with its
holy priesthood and thwart the purposes of
Jehovah. Taken in its large sense this embodies
the whole matter in a nut-shell. The world of
mankind cannot see and comprehend this, be-
cause they are blinded by prejudice, therefore
they do not understand that the power of the
priesthood excites the envy, malice, jealousy and
hatred of Satan and his emissaries; and that he
walks up and down the earth figuratively speak-
ing provoking bitterness and emnity against
those who have enlisted under the banner of the
King of heaven in this last dispensation, to pre-
pare a place and a people for the coming of the
Messiah and the Millennial reign.
	If the people who consent silently even to the
persecution of the L. D. Saints would contrast the
condition of things now, with that of the true
Church in the days of Jesus, or with that of the
children of Israel in olden times; and examine
the Scriptures, (in which all believers think they
have eternal life) they would at least see a simi-
larity to the course now being pursued; and that
as it was in the days of the Savior, so it is now,
[Column 2]
unpopularity of those who have accepted divine
revelation through prophets and inspired men;
evil reports and misrepresentations are taken as
genuine truths, and what follows? why this people
are deprived of the rights and privileges to which
they are entitled under a free government, they
are robbed of property rightfully acquired through
industry, thrift, perseverance and the blessing of
God upon their fields, their flocks and their
labors.
	Nevertheless they still trust in Him whose out-
stretched arm is over all the earth, and they know
their cause is just and though men and nations
may oppress, yet in His own due time will the
Lord, whose laws they have tried to keep, effect
their deliverance, and ultimate triumph.
	Meantime should they sit idly down and wait?
O, no, there is work for all, and it will require the
best thoughts, the most earnest efforts and the
utmost diligence to move onward and upward and
keep pace with the times in this progressive age
of the world’s history. Trials are but preparatory
to the great things about to transpire in which
this people will be called to take an active part,
and it behooves all to be diligent and faithful,
humble and obedient, that they may not falter or
fall by the wayside because of hardship or perse-
cution through lack of faith, but hold on to the
iron rod for the race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong but to him that endureth unto
the end.


WOMEN’S MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES.

	Meeting of the Relief Society at Paragoonah,
Sunday evening August 1890 at half past 7 p. m.
Sister Eliza A. Barton presiding; singing, "Lo
the mighty God appearing," prayer by Bishop
Jones, singing "Great God attend while Zion
sings," minutes of former meeting read. Sister
Jane S. Richards was introduced by Pres. Barton
and addressed the meeting in a most interesting
manner touching upon many subjects calculated
to inspire faith and perseverance in spiritual
duties, especially in prayer and in attending meet-
ings. Spoke upon the necessity of union and re-
ferred to the many temptations to wrong doing
that beset and were in the pathway of this people.
Referred to the advancement of science and the
many inventions of the present time. Spoke
beautifully upon charity and forgiveness of one
another. Exhorted the sisters to meet often, sing
good hymns, read good books and study to im-
prove in all good things.
	Sister E. B. Wells dwelt upon similar subjects
urged the sisters to put into practice the good
teachings they had heard, and to embrace every
opportunity for improvement in the things that
would make them truly wise. Referred to the
advantages of the Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' and Primary Associations, and advised
the sisters to use their utmost endeavors to teach
the young people the principles of the Gospel.
She also gave some of her ideas upon woman's
work and progress.
	Bishop Jones spoke upon woman's position
and pursuits in life, made some excellent remarks
and illustrations upon the subject, also upon
charity and forgiveness, humility and forbearance
one towards another.
	Brother Barton expressed himself delighted to
hear the sisters from Salt Lake City and hoped all
who were present would be benefited by the good
instructions that had been given, rejoiced in the
principles of the Gospel and felt that the Relief
Society was a great blessing. Sister Sarah
Horsley Counselor to Sister Barton and also
Sister Benson of Parowan made some interesting
remarks and gave good instruction.
	Pres. Eliza Barton was greatly pleased with the
visit of the sisters from Salt Lake and the good
[Column 2]
things that had been spoken to encourage and
help them forward, felt they needed instruction in
their duties as a Relief Society but desired to do
all in her power in a humble way and spirit,
singing "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Brother Horsley.

	At half past seven on Monday evening Aug.
11, the Relief Society met as per appointment in
the meeting house at Beaver, Sister Lucinda
Houd Pres. of the R. S. of that Stake presiding.
Pres. Murdock and many other leading local
brethren were present and a very large and atten-
tive audience of men and women. After singing
"O, God our help in ages past," prayer was
offered by Pres. Murdock, continued by singing
"All hail the glorious day." The first speaker
was Sister E. J. Bennett Counselor to Pres. Houd
and also President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver
Stake. Her remarks were excellent and practi-
cal. Pres. Houd followed her with a few remarks
expressing her pleasure that the sisters from Salt
Lake had visited them etc. Sister Houd then
called upon Sister R. W. Tyler who made a very
interesting speech and was followed by Sister
Bickley; each of these sisters spoke of their
work in the Relief Society and the various duties
and obligations it brought with it.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon political and
social matters especially upon marriage, giving
good advice to the young people. She also spoke
of the duties devolving upon the sisters in their
organizations and alluded to the saving of graind
which they had been counseled to do by President
Young.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of the spiritual
work of the sisters, advised holding meetings
often, and keeping up the Quarterly Conferences;
also spoke of the need of saving grain and re-
ferred to the counsel given not only by Pres.
Young but Pres. Taylor and the living President
Wilford Woodruff. The sisters had never been
released from this mission given to them, and in
view of all the calamities transpiring in the world
it would seem necessary to have bread stuff on
hand. Referred to the scarcity of provision the
Saints had passed through and hoped we would
never see such times again. Sister Richards
said many comforting things to the people, Pres.
Murdock spoke a short time endorsed what had
been said, and testified to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters in Beaver Stake. Pres.
Houd made a few closing remarks, and the meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer.

	At one o'clock Tuesday Aug. 12, there was a
meeting held at Minersville under the auspices of
the Relief Society Mrs. Rebecca Eyre presiding
Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley were present
having accompanied Sisters Richards and Wells,
thus far on their journey homeward. Meeting
opened with singing "I saw a mighty angel fly.'
Prayer by Counselor Geo. Eyre, singing, "Hark
ye mortals peace be still." Sister Eyre made a
few opening remarks welcoming the sisters and
invited her Counselor Sister Mary E. Lightner
to address the meeting. Sister Lightner spoke
upon the goodness and mercy of our Creator to
his children, and gave some interesting items of
the church in early days.
	Counselor Lydia McKnight, prayed for the
spirit of the Lord to be with us and gave some
idea of the labors that were performed by the
sisters in that place.
	Pres. Houd expressed her gratification in hav-
ing the opportunity to visit Minersville with the
traveling sisters and exhorted the sisters to love
one another, said we are all working bees in the
hive of Deseret, we must not be cast down, urged
the sisters to take the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
gave much good motherly advice.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were then
ead by the Secretary which gave a very good


idea of the spirit of their meetings.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of our having all
our faculties continued even to old age.
	Referred to Mother Gilbert who had been sixty
years in the Church, and was still living at the
ripe age of ninety years; dwelt eloquently upon
the coming of the Savior and the need of spiritual
development; also upon the bountiful harvest, the
influx of strangers in our midst, the need of sav-
ing grain and also fortifying our children againts
evil influences especially saloons and drinking
places. Sister Richards made a strong appeal to
the sisters to sustain their own publication the
Woman’s Exponent. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon several subjects
of interest particularly the blessing and privilege
of the work for the dead. Sisters R. W. Tyler
L. Houd, and the President Sister Eyre each said
a few words bearing testimony to the truth of the
principles of the everlasting Gospel and express-
ing their desires to be faithful and endure all
things. Choir sang “Joseph Smith's first prayer.”
Benediction by Wm. Wood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING ITEMS.
	It was some time before we went on our journey
to England. Our cottage was near the office where
the President had business attended to; (the
date I cannot now remember) but I think it can
be found if necessary.—Brother Brigham was
said to be sick, after a day or two he was better,
and around.—Then a paper was sent to me to
read, and copy what I felt might interest me.
The slight indispostion of the President was the
effect of a Vision. I only copied a little piece
that might be with me all the time—and this was
the case the more than five years I was away.
	This same little memento, old but still whole, I
now copy for the help of others. It reads as fol-
lows:
	“Joseph stepped towards me and looked very
earnestly yet pleasantly. But before this, I asked
him what I should say to the people from him,
this was the answer:” “Tell the people to be
humble and faithful, and be sure to keep the
spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them right.
Be careful and not turn away the still small voice;
it will teach you how to do, where to go, it will
yield the fruits of the Kingdom—Tell the brethren
to keep their hearts open to conviction, so
that when the Holy Ghost comes to them, their
hearts will be ready to receive it. They can tell
the spirit of the Lord from all other spirits, it will
whisper peace and joy to their hearts and souls;
it will take malice, hatred, strife, and all evil from
their hearts and their whole desire will be to do
good, bring forth righteousness, and build up the
Kingdom of God. Tell the brethren if they will
do this, follow the spirit of the Lord, they will
go right. Be sure to tell the people to keep the
spirit of the Lord; and if they will, they will find
themselves just as they were organized by our
Father in Heaven before they came into the
world. Our Father in Heaven organized the
human family but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion.” “Joseph then showed me the
pattern how they were in the beginning this I
cannot describe, but I saw it and saw where the
Priesthood had been taken from the earth; and
how it must be joined so there will be a perfect
chain from Father Adam to his latest posterity.
Tell the people to be sure to keep the spirit of the
Lord and follow it and it will lead them just right."
	The whole was very interesting, but this was all
I cared to take from the manuscript.
								S. G. R.


[Column 1]
	    AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
	The opening of the Agricultural College
situated at Logan, Cache Co., was a great event
[Column 2]
in Utah, and a gala day for Logan and Cache Co.
Many distinguished visitors were present from
other counties, and telegrams of congratulation
were received from those specially interested liv-
ing at a distance who could not be present.
	The hour for commencing the exercises was
10 a. m. The lecture hall was well filled and
there were present of the Board of Trustees, W.
S. McCormick, President; Gov. A. L. Thomas;
W. H. Brown and Mr. Hills, of Utah county;
M. B. Sowles, of Salt Lake; R. W. Cross of
Weber county; J. T. Hammond and C. F. Olsen,
of Cache county; also Moses Thatcher, G. W.
Thatcher, Bishop Wm. B. Preston, Mrs. Eddy,
G. G. Bywater,, of Salt Lake; Orson Smith, S.
M. Molen, Isaac Smith, Rev. E. W. Greene,
Judge William Goodwin, Commissioner C. C.
Goodwin, Treasurer Bolivar Robers, of Salt
Lake; Mayor I. D. Haines, R. S. Watson, Seth
A. Langton, James A. Langton, W. H. Apperley,
Dr. J. M. Tanner, A. G. Barber, John Bench, W.
E. Partington, John T. Caine, Jr., S. A. Kenner,
E. R. Nielson and many others. Of course Prof.
Sanborn, president of the faculty, and others of
the faculty were also in attendance.
	Pres. McCormick first addressed the vast as-
sembly and announced that the Agricultural
College of Utah was now open and ready for the
dedicatory services. He made very appropriate
and suggestive introductory remarks.
	The opening exercise was a piano solo by Mrs.
R. W. Sloan.
	Pres. McCormick in a rather humorous manner
introduced Prof. Sanborn of the Experiment
Station of Utah and President of the College, who
after some preliminary remarks said: “By the in-
troduction of these colleges was projected into
the educational designs of this country a new
idea for a new class. The old-classical education
I think might be termed a dress parade education.
By the institution of agricultural educational
colleges a broader and a deeper idea was in-
troduced—an idea which recognized the great
value of the productive classes, and the necessity
of giving to them the benefit of scientific re-
searches, of encouraging a new form of education
with the wisdom of giving them the benefit of a
higher culture than they had previously enjoyed.
He dwelt at some length upon the future de-
velopment of the race through the medium of the
new education, and this he believed fully because
of what this education had done for man in the
past. It had procured his physical, mental and
religious freedom.”
	Here Mr. Lamoreaux sang a song which was
warmly received.
	Professor Sanborn then read the following tele-
gram, just then received from Hon. John T. Caine,
Washington, D. C.
	PRESIDENT J. W. SANBORN:—I congratulate
the people of the Territory upon the opening of
the Agricultural College of Utah under such
favorable auspices. An act of Congress, recently
approved, appropriates to Agricultural Colleges
fifteen thousand dollars for each year, increasing
the amount one thousand dollars a year for ten
years thereafter. At the end of that time the ap-
propriation to be $25,000 annually. This, in ad-
dition to the appropriation of $15,000 for the ex-
periment stations. Success to the Agricultural
College of Utah.
							JOHN T. CAINE.
	(Applause.)
	Pres. McCormick then introduced the Governor
of Utah Ter. Arthur L. Thomas. In the course
of his remarks the Governor said:“As a Territory
Utah has done well for education. Reading in
the statutes we find that very soon after the
founding of this Territory, an act was passed
establishing the University of Deseret. It was
an evidence of great courage to do so great a
thing at so early a day. Reading in the law will
[Column 3]
disclose how broad was the basis on which it
was founded. The Deseret University can not
be so great an institution as it may become until
the Territory has schools sufficiently advanced to
send up to the University a class of students
more highly educated than now. Free schools
will do much to this end if the present law can be
enforced, as I believe it will. The next act was
the founding of an institution for the education of
deaf mutes, by which they can become less re-
moved from us and be made of greater use as
men. Then came the establishment of the reform
school. Then follows the agricultural college.
The passage of this act was the first time that the
great agricultural classes had been recognized in
Utah. It seems to me that the agricultural
classes, like the soil they cultivate, are ever
patient and yielding. All the good, the success
of the world and of the race is directly traceable
to agriculture and to the industries founded upon
it. The agricultural are the best classes of our
citizens, and in their ranks is found in trying
times the greatest patriotism and loyalty in the
world. Troubles never arise from the agri-
cultural classes.”
	Bishop Wm. B. Preston was the next speaker,
he gave a brief sketch of agricultural pursuits, in
detail, and the needs and advantages thereof, and
after summing it all up says:“May I add also that
in the education of the man, the heart should not
be forgotten; and that by the great intelligence
brought to bear upon agriculture—the primal pur-
suit—the labor of the farmer may become a more
popular pursuit; and that the straying mind of
youth may be recalled with delight to the best
and oldest pursuit of the human race.”
	After Bishop Preston had finished, Mrs. R.
W. Sloan sang an operatic selection which was
highly applauded.
	Mrs. S. W. Eddy then delivered an address
upon the higher education of woman which is
said by those present to have been the most
brilliant effort of the day. The Logan Journal
promises to give her speech in full in its columns,
which will be anxiously looked for.
	Geo. G. Bywater Esq., then read a paper on
the relation of mechanics to education. His
paper was an able effort and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Next was a telegram from the father of the bill
which brought the Agricultural College into ex-
istence.
					MANTI, U. T., Sept. 4, 1890.
	PROF. SANBORN, Logan:
	I congratulate the people of Utah on the
auspicious event of the opening of an Agricultural
College and Experiment Station in Logan. May
this institution prove successful in endearing the
noblest of all pursuits to the hearts of our youth,
and in furnishing our farmers with such methods
as may facilitate their labors and bring them the
greatest results.
				Yours truly,
						ANTON H. LUND.
	This dispatch was also received with applause.
	Mr. R. C. Easton then sang “Annie Laurie,”
with such effect that the assemblage would not
rest until they heard another verse.
	Hon. Moses Thatcher followed in the line of
Mrs. Eddy, by showing the power within the reach
of woman. He referred to Miss Carroll who
planned the opening of the Tennessee river
which decided the late civil war in favor of the
Union, and to Bismarck, who, while he made
emperors and nations bow, was himself humbled
by a woman.
	Dr. J. M. Tanner also responded in a brief but
happy effort, contending that while the new idea
of education would become more and more popu-
lar, it would only serve to increase the interest
and strengthen the old. Therefore he rejoiced at
the opening of this college and wished it God-
speed.


Rev. E. W. Greene spoke briefly, and referred
to the absence of skilled mechanics among young
people here, and their great necessity, and was
thankful that such an institution as this was
established and which was calculated to increase
the number of skilled laborers among the young
of Utah.
	Short addresses were also  made by R. W.
Sloan, W. H. Snelling, J. A. Langton, J. F.
Wells and C. C. Goodwin.
	Messrs. Easton and Lamoureaux sang "When
the Swallows Homeward Fly" with very excellent
effect.
	Benediction being pronounced by Rev. E. W. 
Greene, the dedicatory services were over.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER TO THE SISTERS.
Cardston, Lee's Creek, Canada,
				August 20th, 1890.

	I awoke in the morning with these words in
my mind,
		"If you love me feed my sheep."
	God has truly given us Shepherds of His own 
choosing that have fed us the bread of Eternal
life these many years, and through our many trials
God has not forsaken us. Our confidence in Him
should not be shaken.
	Let us search the scriptures, and also words
given direct to cheer the many lonely and weary
ones whose souls need consolation; for by so do-
ing our lives are sweetened with the honey of 
truth; the sun may shine through all gathering
clouds of persecution, to give light to our path,for
Father has made it so simple and plain. The 
world, yes, the saints, oft make mistakes and 
seek to climb rugged paths that do not result in
their best good, we need strength and wisdom
every day and hour to be given us,to keep in sight
the star of peace.
	I am here in the great north west of Canada,
and it is so quiet like primitive Utah. My
thoughts wander over this sea of land covered
with fine grass, and wonder for the future; the 
God given Queen yet lives, the dignity of her ex-
cellent laws has been maintained, we honor their
justice, and may they never be sullied by a policy
that injures the innocent. Any tract of land that
we have ever dwelt upon has been paid for and 
blest by the Ruler of heaven and Maker of the
earth for which we return thanks; we should have
confidence in her Majesty's laws for over fifty 
years no religious persecution has been tolerated
against the saints.
	In this quiet nook my health is improving and
thus I feel to labor and encourage others to walk
in the path given us by the organizations so com-
plete. They enable us to work on a broader
platform and to do more good than any women on
the earth.
	I have confidence in our faithful, tried sisters
that are caring for the flock in our sphere, bless-
ing the sick and afflicted, so self-sacrificing to
bless others and they lay up treasures in heaven.
	Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith are with you at home and are ever de-
sirous to bless and comfort with many other faith-
ful and true sisters; seek their advice and to meet
with the Relief Society for mutual benefit and
much good is done by promoting confidence and
faith, and thus we gain wisdom and knowledge;
one sure key to direct us is this, that which builds up 
is from above, and the reverse is from
beneath.
	I would say to my sisters who are scattered, it 
requires a team (many can be their own team-
sters) seek to assemble with the sisters, all saints
should have their names enrolled in the Relief
Society, we need the faith of each other to ad-
vance in spiritual life, we are commanded to con-
tend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
saints, I trust ere long to be with you, it was righ
[column 2]
that I came. Here in Canada I find the true and
faithful, seeking to do the Father's will. Although
no echo of steam rends the air, no pomp or 
splendor glistens to allure the attention of old or 
young. The love that adorns saints and happi-
fies stimulates to action, there must be a variety
and here are the toils of life and the same kind
that is met with in new countries; there is but
very little sickness 3 deaths in 3 years; there is
one very sick brother now, through an accident
was thrown into a stream of water and took cold.

	To the sisters throughout the world let us be
true to ourselves and our God, remembering we 
are in the fold of Christ, His spirit has sanctioned
our legal entry, and if we will feed the sheep, the
lambs will not go a stray, let us not loose sight of
the truth, the Shepherd careth for the flock, for-
getting not our every day duties,and caring for the 
redemption of the dead that we may lay up 
treasures in heaven.
	I trust the Presidents have looked after their re-
ports. It is with much labor that the Secretaries
prepare their reports, this also will bring a rich 
reward to those that get an experience.
	Isaiah says the daughters of Zion shall be
polished after the similitude of a palace, and this
will be brought about by all doing their duty, and
may all have the gift of wisdom with power to
over come that we may have faith to feed the 
flocks that they faint not.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
					President Relief Society.


TO PUBLISHERS.
	Publishers will confer a favor by giving in their
paper, notice of the following.
	Owing to the severe illness and probable death
of the publisher of Woman's Directory, the
Directory will be discontinued for a while.
					ED. Woman's Directory.


WHITTIER’S LETTER TO A FRIEND.

	Mr. Whittier has written the following letter to
Mrs. A. O. Boyca regarding her pleasant book,—
“Records of a Quaker Family."
		Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.,
						7, m. I, 1890.
	My Dear Friend:
	I have received thy beautiful book with great
satisfaction. As a truthful picture of the old
friendly life, it seems to me perfect; and I give
thee my heartfelt thanks for the privilege of read-
ing it. Our dear Society seems changing and be-
coming more like the Calvinistic and other
Dissenting Churches, both in doctrines and testi-
monies, but the good work it has done, and the
simple exteriors of its lives in the past will not be
forgotten by the world it has made better and
sweeter.
		Gratefully thy aged friend,
					JOHN G. WHITTIER.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT LOGAN.
	A mass meeting was held in the Tabernacle
Tuesday Sept. 2, for the purpose of re-organizing
the Logan branch of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, President of
the Territorial Association, and Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards were up from Salt Lake and occupied
the stand in company with Mrs. Lettie Thatcher,
Mesdames Molen, Farr, Townsend, Cardon,
Sanders and others. Mrs. Kimball was elected
chairman, and Mrs. Farr secretary. Mrs. Kim-
ball endeavored to explain the necessity of under-
standing the rules of government. Most of the
officers elected at the first meeting resigned and


the new ones elected are as follows: President,
Mrs. Sarah Farr; first vice-president, Mrs. Lettie
Thatcher; second vice-president, Mrs. Mary Farr;
secretary, Miss M. Thaine; corresponding secre-
tary, Miss A. Parry; chairman Ex. Com. Mrs. P.
Hendrickson; members of the Board, Miss B.
Morehead, Mrs. B. Goodwin, Mrs. M. Hurst,
Miss L. Hovey, Miss Cassiday. Speeches were
made by Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. Adeline Bar-
ber, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball, President O. Smith,
and Councilor S. M. Molen. Selections upon the
franchise were read by Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.


HOW WE SPENT OUR TIME.

	Accepting an invitation from Sister Anna
K. Smoot, Pres. of the Primary Associations of
Utah Stake, Counselor Lillie Freeze accom-
panied by Stake Assist. Mrs. Jane Freeze of
the Y. L. Association of Salt Lake Stake, left
on the early morning train of Aug. 25th and
were met at Pleasant Grove by the combined
Presidency of the R. S., Y. L., and P. A.,
Ass’n, of Utah Stake who had planned a visit
through the northern settlements on a tour of
inspection and encouragement to the sisters
and children laboring in these organizations.
	At Pleasant Grove the Primary met at
10 a. m. with a large attendance of over 130
members, as is usually the case, the girls
largely predominating. The programme was
well rendered throughout. At 2 p. m. a meet-
ing of the R. S. and Y. L. convened at which
appropriate and spirited addresses were given
by Pres. Anna K. Smoot, Pres. Mary John
Pres. Zina Lyon, the two visitors from Salt
Lake and others, many points particularIy in-
teresting to women were dwelt upon and an
excellent spirit prevailed.
	Tuesday, 26th we entered the charming
little retreat of Alpine, never shall we forget
the scene of rural beauty that burst upon our
vision as we rounded the hill leading into the
pretty village nestled at the foot of the mighty
granite hills.
	We met with the Primary at 10 a. m., here
while the girls led in numbers the boys were
very well represented and showed marked in-
terest, everything on the programme was per-
formed to the credit of teachers and children.
	At 2 o’clock, a meeting of the R. S. was
held, at which much encouragement was given
to the ceaseless toilers “our mothers.”
	Part of the company went to Lehi that
night and an evening meeting was held in the
interest of the Y. L. a good attendance of
bright, intelligent, earnest girls showed that
they were still alive to their duties though
laboring under disadvantages. Pres. Lyon
Mrs. Jane and Lillie Freeze addressed the
girls on various topics of interest to themselves.
	And at sunrise on the morning of the 27th,
we reluctantly left the beauty, melody, sun-
shine, the sublime influence of peace which
hangs as a mantle over this little village.
	At American Fork, we waited three hours
and a half for a delayed train which debarred
us from the enjoyment of hearing the exercises
of the children at Lehi, but as we arrived at
the meeting house, just at the close of the
meeting some of the singing was repeated
proving the excellent talent of the children;
we were pleased to learn that a number of
boys took part in the programme. Pres.
Smoot and the other visitors assured us that
the meeting was a success.
	A lively meeting of the sisters held in the
afternoon showed that they were alive to their
duties as saints, progressive in spirit and un-
daunted in their labors for the improvement of
their associations.
	That night we attended an exceedingly in
teresting meeting of the district officers f


[column 1]
American Fork, and at 10 a. m., on Thursday
the general Stake Officers meeting of the P.
A. convened.  This is a grand arrangement
and it was a most enjoyable sight to behold the
Officers from every town and hamlet number-
ing upwards of 150, greeting each other with
such joyful faces, warm hand-clasps and earnest
expressions of mutual love and good fellow-
ship, many of whom no doubt, had not met
since the Conference 6 months previous.  Here
short, concise verbal reports were given from
 the various branches, each telling of the
different methods adopted for enhancing the
interest of the meetings, the most successful
management of the association, etc. All the
business pertaining to the Stake organization
was here transacted and much good counsel
given for future guidance, by Pres. Smoot
whose good generalship, executive ability,
fine tact as organizer and Pres.  is shown to
the best advantage—here is generated the
power which moves so successfully the 
mammoth organization embracing nearly 4,000
children.  Pres. Smoot seems to understand
how to get the best and most work done cheer-
fully by the intelligent corps of officers over
whom she presides.
	At noon, all present were invited to par-
take of an elaborate picnic spread in the Court
house with fruit and flowers in profusion,
where the guests were gracefully waited upon
by a brigade of dainty white capped bright-
eyed girls.  These picnics are an established
feature of each conference given by the As-
sociations of the town where the conference is
held, and as they are always held in Provo
during the winter and changed each summer
to a different town—they are looked forward 
to with mingled anxiety and delight and much
preparatory work is done to make each event
a grand success.  At the one in question held
at 2 p.m., the house was filled with parents and
children, the Bishopric of the ward, and
Superintendent of the Sunday School.  Every
item was pre-arranged, preventing any delay so
tiring to children.  Programmes were written
and distributed among the congregation, every 
part rendered promptly, one noticable and
gratifying feature was the large number of
boys who took part, about 35 in all, doing
themselves great credit; 12 boys recited the
"Articles of faith" in concert in perfect har-
mony, the singing was most delightful by
many, very little girls and showed much care-
ful training.  Time and space will not permit
us to mention half of the many things that
pleased us.
	The children have donated to the nickle
fund over 70 dollars which is used exclusively
for emigration; two persons have been brought
from Europe and the money is again ready
to loan without interest.  The liberation of
one soul from bondage is deemed sufficient
interest on the cash.  The Stake is divided
into seven districts presided over by the
usual Officers who hold regular monthly busi-
ness meetings and keep account of all proceed-
ings.  The Stake Pres. accepts reports from the
presidency of each district semi-anually, thus
the labors are divided among many and
much energetic work is performed.  Every 
Association is visited once a year by Pres.
Smoot and Counselors, who also attend district
Conferences at intervals between each semi-
anual Conference.
	A flying visit to Springville for a peep at
our friends a return to Provo to attend the
Woman's Suffrage Meeting and the Young
Ladies semi annual Conference at which we
trust profitable meetings were held blessed and
encouraged by the wise and motherly counsels
of Pres. Elmina S. Taylor whose labors and
interests among the daughters of Zion are
indefatigable, ended our labors in Utah
Stake where "Welcome" shone in every face
and was felt in the warm grasp of every hand,
[column 2]
and was evident in the very hospitable enter-
tainment accorded us everywhere.  We
brought away many plesant memories and
stopped over on our return at South Cotton-
wood to attend the Mammoth Sunday School
reunion held there Sunday 31st in which 4
wards participated occupying the whole day
with two excellent programmes.  A drive to
Mill Creek, Wed. Sept. 3rd to join the visit-
ing sisters who came out to attend the Young
Ladies annual meeting of that ward where an
enjoyable time was spent in two well attended
well spirited meetings, a delightful picnic at
noon and we wended our way homeward feel-
ing much improved physically and with the
firm conviction that a more enjoyable time
was never experienced.
						L. FREEZE


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		LOGAN 6TH WARD CACHE STAKE.
	The Annual meeting of the 6th Ward Relief
Society was held in the Meeting House on
the 3d, of Sept. President Elizabeth Townsend
presiding. There were present, Stake Pres.
Orson Smith and wife. Relief Society President
Adeline Barber, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
of Salt Lake City; with a good attendance of
the members. The minutes of the former
meeting were read. Roll was called. The
amount of means received and disbursed re-
ported. The amount of wheat and its condi-
tion, and suggestions made in regard to build-
ing a Relief Society House and Granary
which was encouraged by Brother Smith.
Sister Kimball related her experience in re-
gard to a similar undertaking, and said, "you
will be astonished at the ease with which it
will be accomplished if you will but make a
start." A few items were then read by the
Secretary on Relief Society work; of its first
organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
Nauvoo in 1842; of its first move in Logan
and of the duties required, etc.
	President Smith approved of the Society,
was glad to see it had efficient officers and
thought its plans for further advancement
were excellent. It was concluded with a little
picnic provided by the two counselors.
					E. TOWNSEND, Pres.
		HUNTER WARD S. L. STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Hunter Ward S. L.
Stake met as per adjournment in the Ward
House on Thursday, September 4, at one
o'clock p.m. Mrs. Charlotte Neilson presid-
ing. Visitors from the City had been invited
and were present Pres. M. I. Horne her Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
Coun. to Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells,
also the Bishop one of his Counselors and a
goodly number of brethren and sisters for
such a sparsely settled district. Meeting
opened with singing "God moves in a mysteri-
ous way," prayer by Bishop Wm. Miller, sing-
ing, "The Glorious day is rolling on." The
secretary then read the minutes of the previous
meeting, which were very good containing
much food for thought and excellent advice;
the secretary also read the monthly donations
received at the last meeting, which showed a
spirit of benevolence and liberality creditable
to the local sisters.
	Pres. Neilson made a few opening remarks,
and expressed her pleasure in having the
sisters from Salt Lake City. Coun. Elmina
S Taylor was the first speaker, her remarks
were replete with the best instructions, she
dwelt upon the benefits to be derived from at-
tending the meetings of the sisters as well as
other meetings, and enjoined upon the mothers
to not only give good advice and teaching to
the children, watch as well as pray, but to set
worthy examples before them in all things,
[Column 2]
referred to the trials of the present time, and
realized that through these the saints would
prove their faithfulness; alluded to the love of
the world and of pleasure that was growing
in the midst of the saints.
	Pres. Horne spoke of the small things with
which the Relief Society dealt, referred to the
Savior's words concerning the widow's two
mites and his declaration that she had given
more than them all, because it was all she
possessed, made a very happy illustration of
this example, also spoke of the watchful care
of our Father in heaven over each one, which
was verified to us in his saying not even a
sparrow could fall to the ground without his
Maker's notice and that the hairs of our head
were all numbered. "We are now undergoing
the process of purification to prove our
integrity. The duties of the Relief Society are
arduous and especially those of the teachers;
we have both spiritual and temporal duties to
perform; visiting the sick and sorrowing, help-
ing in kindness those who are weak, the tried
and tempted, using our utmost influence against
the wiles and temptations of the world, that be-
set our young people; make our homes happy
and comfortable, teach our children to be
brave and industrious; be wise in looking after
the poor; we don't believe in beggers, it indicates
a bad state of society, though it is not always
the beggar that is the most dangerous element,
it is the smooth tongued and polished hypocrite
that are the most so after all. Beware of the
company of such persons, do not associate
with those who are not of our faith. The
speaker then referred to the importance of the
Relief Society and the words of Joseph at the
time he organized in Nauvoo. She advised the
sisters in regard to their means and spoke
especially upon the subject of saving grain,and
the building of storehouses.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, spoke of being
present at the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and testified that all the principles he taught
were true,and would benefit the human family.
Spoke upon example as being better than pre-
cept, and upon faith, the healing of the sick by
administration of the laying on of hands; told
of the accident that betell her in May last and
gave God the glory, for her being restored to
health, she had not called upon Doctors, but
exercised faith in the ordinances; did not think
of dying after she was injured; blessed all
those present in the name of Jesus.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand
results achieved through the organization of
women, also upon true charity, and the disposi-
tion to look upon the bright side, referred to
the days of famine and of sickness, the trials
of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters
and thought for many reasons we ought to be
grateful notwith standing the persecutions of
the present time, for the Lord had greatly
prospered us in these valleys.
	Pres. C. Nielson made a few remarke ex-
pressing her pleasure in listening to the
remarks of the sisters and called upon the Coun.
to the Bishop A. A. Jones, who spoke briefly
upon charity and fault finding also of obedience
hearkening to counsel and the still small voice
of the spirit that would direct us in the path of
duty.
	Bishop Miller expressed himself in accord
with what had been spoken; he believed the
Relief Society would yet be called upon to
help those who now persecute us; deplored the
condition of the world in the midst of their ca-
lamities because they had not the spirit of
God to sustain them as the saints had, spoke
feelingly upon the duties of mothers.
	The President of the Primary Association
gave notice of the next meeting, and the
hymn "Behold the Savior comes" was sung.
Benediction by Sister Brown.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[column 1]
MRS. LEAVITT IN DENMARK.

	I had the pleasure of attending a woman’s
suffrage meeting yesterday, called by the
Danish Society,at which were present delegaets
from Sweden, Norway, and Finland.
	The speaking was in their languages except
that I said a few words in English, and was
interpreted, though nearly half the persons in
the room raised their hands as able to under-
stand English.
	Mrs. Selmer, who accompanied me,  trans-
lated a few things,  but as I understoood so
little of what was said, I should like to make
a few very brief notes ef what I observed in other ways
	First I was struck with the number of
ladies who wore short hair. Again, I did
not observe one corseted waist among them
all, that is, the leaders and speakers who
were moving about and who came under my
observation.
	One only of the ladies exhibited an oratory
formed after the model taught to men in the
schools. All the others talked in the most
easy and natural way, with smiles and gestures
intermingled,  and one laughed with her
audience.  Only one was at all slow or
hesitating in her speech.
	Objectors were asked to speak, and two or
three gentlemen “improved the opportunity,"
but from the laughter that followed the brief
reply of some lady, I fancy they gained little
from their endeavor.
	I have heard two points criticised by ladies
who believe in suffrage, but who do not act
with this society.  The first is that too many
of the society go out of their way to talk
against Christianity.  To say nothing of the
beliefs of either class, I think it bad policy in
suffragists to attack religious beliefs.  It is
certain that suffrage cannot be carried
without the help of Christian men and
women, and it is also true that many will
not join a movement which seems to them,
because of utterances of some of the leaders,
—which are not, however, a part of any rules
or constitutions,—to be contrary to their own
most cherished beliefs.  The opposite course,so
constantly followed by the Woman's Journal,
and upon the platform which that paper re-
presents, with its results, shows very clearly
that I am right.
	Another hindrance is that several of the
suffragists are said to assume mannish not
manly ways.  I saw nothing of this, but to sit
in a meeting with an arm on the back of a
chair and the hand thrust in the hair, and
one leg thrown over the other, casts a needless
slur upon a grand and fundamental move-
ment.
	We err if we copy after the “ways” of men.
Let us be ourselves, and not weak imitations
of men, and thus sooner will we show those
who are not yet with us that the movement is
not unsexing women, and the sooner shall we
show them that education,  thought-power,
executive ability, courage, truth are as compati-
ble with feminine delicacy and purity, femi-
nine sweetness and grace, as purity,gentleness,
sweet temper and unselfishness are with true
manliness in men.  I hesitated to speak of
another point, as, perhaps, it applies best to
one lady, lest the shadow should fall upon
others; still.  I decide to mention it.  In the
northern continental cities, there are as yet
but few lady physicians.  In one of these cities
that I have recently visited, a lady physician
of much ability and skill, fully in accord with
the movements for the elevation of women,
joins with men in smoking and drinking, and
the use of oaths—no, I would say it squarely
as I would of a man—swearing. These were
not her habits until she began to practise
medicine.  Presently when the movement is
more general here, as it is in America and
[column 2]
England, these unpleasant things will be rated
at their true value, merely as individual eccen-
tricities or mistakes.
	It appears to me we should all be careful
not to depart from what is truly feminine, nor
from any badge of femininity in dress or
manners, unless it is something that really
hampers or weakens us.
	It is sure that “emancipation of women” is
progressing rapidly in these Scandinavian
lands, and that the movement is much farther
advanced than in the more southern countries.
			MARY CLEMENT LEAVITT.
	Kjobenham, Denmark, Aug. 5,1890.


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.

	MRS. WELLS: DEAR SISTER:
	I am much interested in the story of
Hephzibah, and I think I recognize some of
the characters.  Had I been as courageous
as she was,I might now be with the Church;
don’t know when I will get there again.  My
health is tolerably good, but my eyes and
ears are badly affected; fear sometimes I will
get entirely deaf and blind.  I hope and pray
that I may not.
	*		*		*		*		*
	Accept my best wishes and remember me in
your prayers; give my respects to Elvira.have
been looking for a letter from her; have re-
cieved none of late.
			Yours Affectionately
								L. B. T.
	Osceola, Ill. Aug. 12, 1890.


BOOK NOTICE. 
	We have recently reviewed a new book the
title is "Tokology," "A Book for Every Wo-
man"by Alice B Stockham M. D. The author
has something of a national reputation and her
writings are highly commended by the press. 
The book seems to contain many important 
truths and useful lessons to the wife and
mother.  It has been said by some to be the
best work of its kind, but as to this the writer
is not prepared to decide.  That every woman
should be well informed regarding her physical
powers and conditions we have always main-
tained, therefore the books and lectures which
will give her this knowlege, should be within
her reach, and carefully studied.  There is no
danger of knowing too much about the human
organization, but very great danger in know-
ing too little.  Sister Caroline C. Raleigh is
agent for the work, and as she is well known
to the people where she is likely to canvas, 
we have little doubt of her success in introduc-
ing the work where it will be read with interest
and be likely to do good. There are none
too well posted on the subjects that pertain to 
the health and happiness, and to secure the
greatest good to posterity through the channels
of wisdom and knowledge should be the direct
aim of every mother.  For further particulars
concerning the work apply to C. C.  Raleigh
324 N. First West St. Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Pleasure is the flower that fades; remem-
brance is the lasting perfume.—Bouffiers.
	
	Deference is the instinctive respect which
we pay to the great or good—the unconscious
acknowledgement of the superiority or
excellence of others.

	Death opens the gate of fame, and shuts
the gate of envy after it; it unlooses the chain
of the captive, and puts the bondsman's task in-
another man's hands.
							Sterne.


The detractor may, and often does, pull
down others, but he never, as he seems to
suppose, elevates himself to their position.
The most he can do is maliciously to tear from
them the blessings which he cannot enjoy him-
self.


UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE 
Tickets
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of	
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
