VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1891.	NO. 18.


CONTENTS.

	A Shetch—E. The Mother of Our Savior—L.
L. G. Richards. Should all Women Marry—
Jenny June. A Zulu Woman's Mansion—Ladies
Home Journal. Suffrage—Lexia Harris. Notes
and News. The Woman's International Press
Federation. Constitution. Salt Lake Co., W.
S. A.—C. C. Raleigh, Sec. Famous Beauties—
Elizabeth Bisland. Advancement of Women—
Boston Herald. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORALS:—General Conference. Relief
Society Conference. Representative Women of
the Convention. In Washington—M. A. G.
Greenhalgh.
	POETRY:—A Call—Ruby Lamont. "Tears Idle
Tears"—Maggie Winesburg. To My Mother's
Sister—Lula. An Old Book—Lady Lindsay.
Legend of the Violet—Merion Couthony Smith
Fire Fancies—Good Housekeeping.


A CALL.

BY RUBY LAMONT.

There's a flash of light in the midnight sky,
There's a voice of strength as the flash sweeps by,
For Oppression's doom has been sounded far,
Lovely Freedom wakes with the day-beam's star!

Shall we close our eyes to our neighbor's need?
And though we be blest shall we cease to plead
For the cause of Right, for our sister's woes,
While fair Justice droops 'neath her cruel foes?

How long, how long shall we bend and weep,
How long shall the waves of injustice sweep
Over human life, with its woe and care,
To darken a world that were else so fair?

Awaken! Arise! Let thy slumbering heart
In the march of Right take a noble part!
Thou shalt share the palm by the victor's side,
And rejoice with them who for Truth have died.

Circleville, Utah, Feb. 13, 1891.


"TEARS; IDLE TEARS."

MAGGIE WINESBURG.

There's a world of meaning in the crystal drops
	That flow from the human eye,
Sometimes it's woe too deep for words
	But a heartbreak's bitter cry.

Or they may be caused by a cruel slight
	From friends we hold most dear,
As in the crowd they pass us by
	With a slighting word or sneer.

Sometimes hot words from anger flow,
	And cruel words fall fast,
And our dearest friend is our bitterest foe
	While the angry passions last.

Then again the pearly drops flow fast,
	Like a gentle summer shower,
As in every pulse of our throbbing hearts
	We feel joy's sweetest power.

It is passing strange that those crystal drops
	Each human emotion show;
In joy or grief we find relief
	As the bright drops freely flow.


TO MY MOTHER'S SISTER.

In a quiet and peaceful home was seen
A band of sisters, whose youth serene
Was passing so calmly, tho' swiftly by,
It was scarcely seen by the watchful eye
Of a tender father, who waited there,
Or marked by a mother's gentle care.


And the sisters thought not, as one by one,
From the happy hearth they were passing on,
How soon the latest would yield to "fate,"
And the quiet home be desolate.

You stood together—my mother and you,
Dreaming of life's narrow pathway in view;
And for each bright fancy her visions wove,
Yet ye dreamed not afar from each other to rove.

But ye parted! ye parted! your playtime o'er,
And together ye weave bright visions no more;
For other homes ye have sought and found,
And other fair circles now gather round.

Life's future pathway may still be the theme,
While other sisters all hopefully dream,
But ye, your childhood and youth are pass'd.
And a shade on your last fond meeting cast;
The shade of a long and sad farewell,
Of which the wild winds still wailing tell.

The winds that over the desert come,
Tell of a mother who left her home,
And friends and children still true and kind,
With smiles and tears, she left behind,
To journey o'er plains and mountains wild,
And search out the home of her wand'ring child.
And the low winds whisper softly now,
How she calmly sleeps 'neath the mountain's brow

Rest gently, mother, sleep sweetly on,
Thine earthly sorrows and cares are gone:
And content ye, sisters, if needs must be,
That each other's faces no more ye see,
Content ye, afar from each other to roam,
'Till mother, in Heaven shall call ye home.

		LULA.
1866


A SKETCH.

	Far away in western climes there lies a most
beautiful garden. Remote from the constant
whirl and commotion of the metropolis, one
imagines himself exalted, as it were, to a
sphere beyond, when he feels the soft
sea breeze upon his cheek and notes the
beauties of nature which surround him. Here
all is quiet, peaceful,and the soul, in harmony
with the delightful associations, stands in con-
trast with the surging waves of the ocean as
they break in sublime grandeur upon the
shore. One cannot imagine anything more
lovely than the sunshine, the flowers, the
grand old oaks and the stately pines which
are to be found in this paradise of beauty.
	Many years ago there dwelt in this sequestered
spot a woman of fine intellect and much
beauty. Sorrow and trouble had driven her
aimlessly from one place to another, until
careworn and in solitude she had at last found
a place where the weary heart might rest in
quietude. Day after day she spent wandering
over the acres of land filled with delightful
pleasures, always finding something new in
nature to interest her susceptible mind. It
seemed to her that the woods and everything
that lived must entertain solemn and rev-
erential thoughts, so powerful and holy were
the melodies which came forth from the
branches of the trees and the flowing brooklet.
Beside the same brooklet she often sat listen-
ing to the sounds which dropped from the
branches like dew, sometimes forming in her
mind beautiful muses, and often humming in
unison with the trees and brooklet. She had
grown to love these melodies, and in her mind
she would associate the different tones and


thus make a harmonious whole. She would
imagine the brooklet telling the flowers of
the wonderful tree at its side, and then it
seemed as if the tree itself sang, so well and
truly had the pure spring related. The angels
above must have heard these delightful sounds,
and said to one another "we must have the lovely
songsters here in our heavenly garden," for
one day a scorching beam had dried up the
wonderful brooklet, and the beauty, strength
and life had left the proud tree at its side—
they had departed with the soul of a noble
woman and sainted sister.
		E.


THE MOTHER OF OUR SAVIOR.

	To contemplate the life and mission of this
most noble woman, creates within the mind
the deepest, purest reverence and admiration
that mortal is capable of feeling for mortal.
What an incentive the contemplation of this
beautiful character and divine mission should
be to every young woman, to guard her
purity and virtue with the strictest tenacity,
to "magnify the Lord and rejoice in God."
	Not that she was born of wealthy parentage,
for she says herself, in speaking of the Lord's
great goodness, "He hath regarded the low
estate of His handmaiden; for behold from
henceforth all generations shall call me
blessed.	*	*	He hath put down the mighty
from their seats, and exalted them of low
degree."
	Evidently she did not belong to any one of
the higher circles, wherein existed and
operated those of large means, or great wealth.
She was of very lowly birth, and her educa-
tion, her thoughts and imaginations must have
corresponded with her humble station in life.
Yet how pure and refined must have been
every thing in any way associated with her
wholelife and being.
	The Scriptures say little or nothing con-
cerning her personal appearance. Yet it is
natural and consistent to believe she was a
most lovely maiden. The mind, indeed, can-
not conceive of one so blest and highly favored
of the Lord, being anything but beautiful.
As the presence of the Spirit of God refines
and exalts the inner nature, so does it beautify
and glorify the outward appearance. It gives
the only true beauty, the only beauty which
will endure forever, and is therefore the one
precious charm above all others which should
be sought for and cultivated by the young
ladies in Zion, since the religion they hold to
promises blessings only which are to be ever-
lasting in their nature. The mother of Jesus
being so richly endowed with the Holy Spirit,
as is expressed in the sacred records, must
then have been most beautiful. Agreeing
with this natural supposition, the Latter-day
Saints have also a concise, and to them a most
reliable declaration given by the Prophet
Nephi, who in vision beheld this Lamb of
God, and His mother, according to the flesh.
He pronounces her "a virgin most beautiful
and fair above all other virgins."
	Very little is told concerning the character
of this illustrious woman. But enough is
written to give an idea of what she must have
been.
	The indignities heaped upon the humble
servants of Christ in these days, are continual
reminders of Himself and His own sufferings


during His short career on earth. So also, do
the persecutions brought to bear upon many
of the mothers in Israel today, cause the
mind to revert to the trials, inconveniences
and sorrows to which the mother of Jesus was
subjected. Joseph, the husband of Mary, was
warned to take the young child, Jesus, and
His mother into Egypt. The servants and
handmaidens of the Lord are also warned in
these days, to flee from place to place, to es-
cape the cruelties of the enemies of righteous-
ness.
	Another similarity is, that instead of talking
to her friends and neighbors about her affairs,
Mary "kept all these things, and pondered
them in her heart." The same things are
adhered to by many mothers among our peo-
ple today. How they should rejoice in the
midst of all the trials they are passing through.
Noble and choice spirits have been reserved to
come forth in these latter days; how every
mother should sanctify herself before the Lord
and patiently await His mandates, as did
Mary, the mother of Jesus.
		L. L. G. Richards.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SHOULD ALL WOMEN MARRY?

	A few months ago a young woman became
engaged to be married to a gentleman in whose
family were two brothers, both eligible young
men, but no sisters. Her own immediate
family consisted of her mother and one sister;
her father was dead, and she had no brothers.
Naturally, during the weeks of visiting and
gayety that preceded the wedding, the sister of
the engaged young lady and the brothers of
the engaged young man were thrown much to-
gether. Theatre parties and dinner parties,
receptions, and afternoon teas were of constant
occurrence, and one or other of the brothers
offered his services as escort. This was more
than sufficient to set the tongues of gossips go-
ing. Smiles, winks, and nods were exchanged
whenever and wherever the young people who
were not engaged appeared, the young lady
was congratulated in advance, and the "luck"
of the girls in finding ready-made husbands in
a daughterless family freely and audibly com-
mented upon. All this time the facts were
the farthest possible from justifying the infer-
ences drawn by the vulgar and mischievous
busybodies. The young lady, whom they took
it for granted was ready to pounce upon the
first man who presented himself, was a serious-
minded girl with a distinct purpose in her
life, and with her plans laid for steadfast effort
towards its fulfilment. The young man, on
the contrary, to whom she was so summarily
assigned, was somewhat cynical, indisposed to
marry, and only waiting his brother's wedding
to make a long-contemplated trip abroad and
possible stay of years.
	It is not my purpose now to dwell on the
heart burnings and unpleasant aspects of this
case, the inexpressible vulgarity of this per-
sonal chatter and assumption of knowledge of
other people's affairs, or of the wicked inven-
tion of facts to sustain theories when subse-
quent events do not carry out previous asser-
tions. All these things are within the per-
sonal knowledge of every one of us, and are,
indeed, matters of daily occurrence. Each
one will be able to figure to him or herself the
ominous looks, the shakes of the head, the
fears, and the additional inventions which fol-
lowed the subsidence of social relations into
their accustomed grooves, the retirement of the
young lady and her mother into their quiet
life, her assiduous application, and the de-
parture of her supposed fiance for foreign
lands.
	What I specially desire to ask is this: Why
should all women be expected to marry? As

[Column 2]

a matter of fact the majority do marry, and
in this world probably always will; for, its
primary conditions render marriage more or
less of a necessity. But it is less so to the
educated woman than to her more dependent
sister, and it is less so for companionship and
social needs than formerly. The strong re-
maining inducement is the building up of
family interests and associations, that pro-
vision for the hunger of the heart in old
age, which only children and their growing life
and love can supply.
	Apart from this there is now every induce-
ment for young women as well as young men,
who are sufficient unto themselves, to remain
single. The world has become their oyster
as well as that of man. It is as secure under
ordinary circumstances for them as for men,
It holds for them its rewards of toil. its wealth
of knowledge, its high honors as the result of
patient research and endeavor. It is no longer
obligatory upon a woman to give herself to
one man to save herself from being torn to
pieces by the rest. The world has its
marauders, but they work more by tongue than
by hand, and they retire behind closed doors
at the first sniff of danger. Doubtless wo-
men are still subjected, very largely, to the
will-compelling power of men; but the wills of
men are bent less in the direction of marriage
than formerly, and the will of the woman is
bent more frequently against it. The woman
is growing into a dual personage. To her all-
womanliness she is adding some manly attri
butes: strength of purpose, self-reliance, and
that persistent energy which is the result of
the exercise and useful employment of faculty.
If such women marry, they must share life
on equal terms with their husbands, and there
are men who are good enough and great
enough to be thankful for such equal com-
panionship. But it is not necessary to say
that the majority have not reached that point,
and it is better for the woman who is able to
order her own life and live it in accordance
with the dictates of her own conscience, to do
it alone, than to subject herself to a lower
will, and be its struggling or quiescent victim
through all the years of her existence.
	There are women as well as men, to whom
marriage is not only not a necessity, it is not
congenial. They have gifts and capacities
which they desire to cultivate and exercise.
The serious pursuit of any art or industry is
incompatible with the faithful performance of
the usual duties of wife and mother. This is
the serious utterance and conviction of one
who has tried conscientiously to unite the two.
	Of course there are circumstances—absence
of children, leisure, a favoring atmosphere—
which may promote latent tendencies, or dis-
cover them, and aid in their active development
and exercise after marriage; but these are ex-
ceptions. There are also cases, as before men-
tioned, where men and women, in all integrity
of motive, may unite their lives upon an equal
footing, and spend them in fellowship and
mutual helpfulness as blissful as any condi-
tions may be on this earth.
	But we all know that these are not the
usual terms upon which men and women
marry. That the woman relinquishes her
opportunities, and takes upon herself certain
duties when she binds herself to the man; and
that whatever becomes of her duty as wife,
nature itself compels her to realize her obligation
as mother, and lay inclination on the altar of
sacrifice. This obligation is, and should be,
imperative. Family life is the sacred out-
growth of the marriage relation—it is the
Ygdrasil of our social existence, the
sanctuary under whose wide and constantly-
spreading branches all virtues should find
sustenance and nurture. This can only be
with the wise and true wife and mother as
the centre of this growing life. If her work is

[Column 3]

delegated, her strength expended, her influence
must be dissipated and measurably impaired.
	Outside of her work in the home, the ex-
ercise and experiences of the married woman
who is the household head of a family should
be socially, mentally, and physically recreative
and stimulating, calculated to enlarge her per-
ceptions, widen her knowledge, keep her in-
formed as to the doings, and in rapport with
the thought of the rest of the world. Prob-
ably the secret of the growth of the Woman's
Club is that it performs exactly this office for
the home-making woman. This is, however, a
resource for the unmarried as well as the
married woman; and while to one it furnishes
mental refreshment, to the other, who perhaps
lives by brain-work, it brings rest and com-
panionship. Life is too full and too many-
sided now for any intelligent woman to be con-
tent in one narrow groove, and the best
modern manifestation of the freer life is the
power to choose the field in which her energies
shall be expanded without being placed under
a ban.  But the woman who marries should
do it as unto the Lord, making that her
ministry, without reference to what she has
married, for marriage is not primarily or solely
for the happiness of the individual, though
this is often enhanced, but for the preserva-
tion and growth of the race.
		JENNY JUNE.


A ZULU WOMAN'S MANSION.

	The Zulu woman is the architect and
builder of the Zulu house, and the style of
architecture is known in the colonies as "wattle
and daub." It looks like an exaggerated
beehive, for the Zulu mind has this peculiarity,
that it cannot grasp the ideas of anything
that is not round or elliptical in form. There
are no squares in nature. To build her
house, the woman traces a circle on the
ground fourteen feet in diameter, and getting
a number of long, limber branches, she sticks
them firmly into the ground and then bends
the tops over, and ties them with fiber obtained
from the numerous creepers or "monkey
ropes." Then she twines thicker creepers in
and out of these sticks, all around the circle
of spaces, about twelve inches apart, and then
taking wattle (a kind of coarse grass or reed)
she thatches the edifice, leaving a small hole
at the top for a chimney, and another hole
three feet square for a door. In front of this
she builds a covered way, extending outward
about three feet, and the exterior of the house
is finished by a coat of "daub" or mud. She
then seeks the nest of the white ant, and, dig-
ging them up, obtains a quantity of white
clay, which she beats to powder, dries, and
then mixing it with water, kneads it until it
is quite smooth. This she spreads all over
the ground inside the hut, and beats it care-
fully until it is quite hard and free from
cracks. This floor a good housewife will
scour twice a day with smooth stones until it
is like a piece of polished marble. The fire-
place is near the door, and is simply a ring
of this clay to confine the embers in one
place. The other necessaries found in a hut
are a bundle of spear shafts, some tobacco
drying and several bunches of millet hanging
from the roof. Grouped around the walls are
the three anasi (a species of sour milk) jars,
the native beer jars and open jars holding
grain. Of course the dense wood smoke ris-
ing coats the roof, millet, and tobacco with soot,
and long "fingers" of it hang in every direc-
tion; but the floor will be clean enough to eat
on, and as long as that is so the social Mrs.
Grundy of Zulu is satisfied—Ladies' Home
Journal.


God reaches us good things by our own
hands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN OLD BOOK.

And old torn book, with one pale rose
	Crushed in its yellow pages:
I have not held it in my hand.
	Nor read it thus for ages.

Nay, formerly, the print was good,
	Or else mine eyes were better;
For now they're full of tears—too full
	To see a single letter. 

		LADY LINDSAY.


LEGEND OF THE VIOLET.

The violet was Love's flower, 'tis said,
	In distant ages, long ago;
Her color was a deep heart-red,
		As few may know.

Till, looking upward to the blue,
	The very deep of purity,
Her being caught that wondrous hue, 
		As all may see.

But as that perfect blue was shed	
	Upon her petals without stint,
'Twas mingled with her own heart-red,
		In purple tint.

O Love, look up to air and sun,
	Live in the largeness of God's space;
Till thou and Purity be one
		Sweet blended grace.

	MERION COUTHONY SMITH.


FIRE FANCIES.

I am sitting by my fireside,
	In its warm and ruddy glow;
While the day is slowly dying
	And the shadows come and go;
And within the glowing embers
	Shadowy forms I seem to see—
Shadows that bring back to memory
	Friends and days once dear to me.

And although this firelight dreaming
	Pleasant is, yet still there run
Through it all deep tones of sadness,
	Like to shadows o'er the sun:
For the dear ones whose sweet faces
	Made my heart so glad and gay.
They with whom I talked and journeyed
	On each happy summer day,
Now are absent; and I miss them
	As I sit alone to-night,
As I see their dreamland faces
	In the dim and flickering light.

Yet some day in the far future,
	If our Father wills it so,
I shall meet the friends I dream of
	In the firelight's ruddy glow.
But to-night, when they are absent,
	It is pleasant just to see,
In the glowing light before me,
	Faces of those dear to me.
So I sit and dream and wonder,
	In the fire flame's ruddy glow,
While the day is slowly dying,
	And the shadows come and go.

		Good Housekeeping.


[Column 1]


SUFFRAGE.

	In the early history of our country, suffrage
was limited to church members, then to
property owners, and later all restrictions were
lifted from the citizens of a free Government,
who were endowed with sufficient intel-
lectuality, to become competent judges at the
age of twenty-one. The last advancement
removed a much greater obstacle, and this
time it was decreed that race or color should
form no consideration. We now wish to
insert only the one word "sex," to make it
read race, color, or sex, then there will be no

[Column 2]

limit to the broad platform of freedom upon
which our glorious Constitution stands.
	This word should have been inserted by the
signers of the Constitution, but it was not and
the omission has caused and is causing a great
deal of unnecessary trouble.
	Why do we want suffrage you say? Why
did our forefathers wish to be represented in
the English Parlament, and have a voice in
the law-making power? Because one person
cannot justly represent another without
having experienced similar feelings. And for
the same reason we desire to place a candidate
in the halls of Congress, and aid in the making
of the laws, for if they materially conflict
with a majority of the governed, they cannot
be classed as good, or be upheld by the
populace, hence it is of vital importance that
representatives of the people should formulate
them. As it now stands only one half of the
citizens of the United States are represented
in Congress.
	One class rules the other by the hand of
tyranny. They have no voice in the laws, the
amount of taxes they shall pay, or who shall
fill the public trusts.
	In Massachusetts those who wish to vote
must first work a poll tax. Were it possible
for women to gain suffrage by paying a poll-
tax, there would be hundreds and hundreds
seen at the polls every election day. And
why would the test be unjust? The paupers,
infirm, demented and vagabond, would be
debarred. Men or women who shared not in
political enthusiasm, would not care to pay a
dollar to secure a privilege that was not
valued.
	The polls are not necessarily a place of
uncouth conduct and boisterous language.
If women were expected and continually
appearing, quiet would reign; men would
not so far forget themselves as to indulge in
abusive language or amuse themselves by
fist fighting in the presence of ladies. It is
just as Henry Ward Beecher says, that "rude-
ness at the polls is due to woman's absence,"
that "her office is to carry with her whatever
is seemly and decorous."
	We do not want to fill man's sphere, or
rule over him as Victoria does over her subjects.
We believe that man was placed at the head
by God, but that woman's place is at their
right hand. We would like to be represented
in all political circles, to let merit, not sex,
regulate the amount due for services rendered,
to be allowed to fill some appropriate offices
under the Government, and to have a voice
in the election of the same. If, as some say,
it would be like giving every man two votes to
allow each woman to cast one, as he would
be his wife's dictator, it would pay them just to
please and satisfy the women, for do they not
make for us a heaven, or a hell? And there
could be no harm in simply doubling the
number of votes, as the ultimate result would
not be changed. But who would dictate to
the bachelor's wives, the widows and the un-
married? Oh! that is not the point, they fear
that women would not always be influenced by
their husbands, and that wicked and immoral
men would not be elected. As one writer
says "Women are too scrupulous and exacting
in their choice of a candidate to be successful
in practical politics." Would that more of
the men were afflicted with the same disease!
	Why are women not as competent to vote as
men? They are oftener sober, a greater
number of them are honest, fewer commit
murder, suicide, burglary, robbery, etc., a
less ratio become insane, beggars, or visitants
of the poor house and gambling den.
Woman has the early care and training of the
child, she plants the first seeds, makes the
first and lasting impressions; and the in-
fluences that she exerts over the child's mind
remains with it to its dying day.

[Column 3]

	It is impossible for man to go very far in
advance of woman, or for woman to far
surpass man in intellectuality, but the develop-
ment of the one means the onward march of
the other, and a systematic development of
both, for do they not have the same origin?
	We cannot impart to others what we do
not possess; and when it becomes an
acknowledged fact that she is best fitted to
perform the duties of a wife and mother,
and to have the care and training of the
representatives of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religious,
and to have the care and training of the
representitves of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religeous
and domestic affairs, the zenith of woman's
glory will have been reached, and great things
may be expected from the offspring of
such a people.
		LEXIA HARRIS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	At ninety-six years of age, Mrs. Matilda
Sewall, of Augusta, Me., takes rank among
the best piano-players of her city.
	The Ladies' Health Protective Association
of New York will apply for a national charter.
They have under consideration the problem
of cleaning the streets in that city.
	Leonard Grover has closed a contract with
Eugene Tompkins for a run of "The wolves
of New York," at the Boston Theatre.
Scene painters are at work getting up the
piece, which will be elaborately presented.
	Mrs. Eliza N. Blair, wife of Senator Henry
W. Blair, has nearly completed a story of the
New England life of a generation or two back,
entitled "Elizabeth the Puritan," which will
soon be published, probably by a Boston
firm.
	A Woman's Educational Union at Frank-
fort-on-the-Main, Germany, founded in 1876,
has 809 members. Its schools have 684
pupils who study, besides the usual subjects,
tailoring, embroidery, machine-sewing, hair-
dressing, ironing,millinery, and cooking.
	Madame von Teuffle, better known as
Blanche Willis Howard, is living happily and
writing busily in Stuttgart. Her husband
lately said to friend that it would be "a blot
on his 'scutcheon' if her marriage should
paralyze his wife's literary faculties." He is
said to be as proud of her as a literary wo-
man, as he is devoted to her as a wife.
	Sarah Bernhardt, with her companion, Miss
Saylor, a valet, two maids, Mr. and Mrs.
Maurice Grau and child, a Danish hound, a
Skye terrier, and the little girl Madeline,
adopted in New York, arrived at the New
York and New England station last night on
the White Limited Express from New York.
They were met by Messrs. Abbey and Schoeffel
and driven to the Vendome, where supper was
served at about eleven o'clock. Mr. Grau
said that after completing the Boston engage-
ment the company will go in turn to Wash-
ington, Philadelphia, some minor cities and
Montreal, working westward to San Francisco
by way of Chicago and St Louis, winding up
in Australia. Returning in the autumn, the
company, will again visit Boston. In re-
ference to the child the famous artist has
adopted, he knew but little. They called
it Madeline, and it was supposed to be the
offspring of a distant relative or friend of
the actress. She had taken a great fancy to
it, and after taking it with her to Washing-
ton and Philadelphia, will send it to France
to be educated.


Learning makes a man fit company for
himself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1891.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Sixty-first annual conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will com-
mence at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, April
4, 1891, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City. All
officers and members are cordially invited to be
present at the meetings.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
		JOSEPH F. SMITH,
			First Presidency.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The second annual conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, on Tuesday, April 7, 1891.
Meetings will commence at 10 o'clock a.m. and
2 o'clock p.m. respectively.
	The officers and members of the Relief Society
and all those interested in this benevolent work
are cordially invited to attend the Conference. It
is expected that able representatives from each
State organization will be present and make brief
reports of the methods of work and results
achieved.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			President.
		JANE S. RICHARDS,
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
﻿
REPRESENTATIVE WOMEN OF THE
CONVENTION.

	In the last editorial the Woman's National
Council was the principal subject, now it must be
the Woman's Suffrage Convention, which was also
held at Albaugh's Opera House, Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the chair; and she is, in the estima-
tion of many "The grandest Roman of them all."
She read Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's speech,
which had been prepared for the occasion,
as the lady herself is in Europe, and she did it as
she does everything, with dignity and originality,
for she excels in being her own true self. She
has no imitation, and though she read Mrs.
Stanton's speech, and read it well, she was Susan
B. Anthony through it all, most emphatically, and
not Mrs. Stanton, or any body else.
	Her success in a great measure is due to her
personality. She is in every sense of the word
Susan, and does not copy the manners nor adopt
the style of either of the other great leaders of
the suffrage movement. She is as distinctive in
this respect as if she belonged to another era in
the emancipation of womankind.
	One finds many types of women in this great
movement, and there are those who follow a

[Column 2]

certain lead, or represent a class or kind, but
aside from these Miss Anthony stands out alone,
a figure representative, and although a leader, in
no sense of the word a copyist. Never could
there be one more pronounced as distinctive from
all others. It is seldom one sees such an un-
assuming, yet queenly woman as Miss Anthony.
Without having had the maternal development
that adds to womanhood stars in its crown of
glory, she stands pre-eminent among the women
of her race and time, for the valuable service she
has rendered to those who were and are adding
stars to the crown of motherhood. And so we
say Susan B. Anthony is the mother of mothers.
She has had a greater work to do than many who
have borne both sons and daughters, and we pay
her reverence and honor, and desire for her length
of days, and wide spread influence throughout
America's broad land.
	But we must hasten on and speak of others.
Lucy Stone was there. She was one of the first
who became identified with the earliest of the
crusaders in the conflict for woman's rights. She
is of a motherly type, and yet she stands some-
what alone, though a woman of family. She made
herself a name that was known throughout the
land in the Anti-Slavery commotion, and did not
change it even in marriage, and yet her union
with Mr. Blackwell is a most happy one. Their
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, bids fair to be-
come as famous as her mother. She has already
attained considerable celebrity in the active work
of suffrage; and is certainly one of the brightest
lights.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, one of the most noted
women in America, was also present at both the
Council and the Convention. Mrs. Howe is the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, that holds its Congress each
year in some one of the large cities of the world.
In 1889 this Congress met in Denver, Colorado.
Mrs. Howe is a very talented writer and a re-
markable woman for her age in many respects.
She travels about over the country as many young
women would think they could not; and is
still doing an active work in helping to advance
others, who have not had the advantages and ex-
perience which has made her life so full and
complete.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall is advancing very
rapidly, and her talents and executive ability are
appreciated in the great Councils of these par-
ticularly bright women that come together once a 
year in Washington. At the last executive meet-
ing of the Woman's National Council she was
elected the President for the next term, which is
a very great honor, and will give her a more
national reputation; although she has held
various other positions; she was for several years
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
National Woman Suffrage Association and Cor.
Sec'y of the Woman's National Council from
the date of its organization to the time of her
election as its President.
	There were so many other bright stars shining
in woman's firmament, if one can be allowed to
use that expression in this connection, that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject, but we
may mention the names of a few. Ella Deitz
Clymer, the former President of Sorosis, is a
superb young woman; Annie Nathan Meyers,
writer and author as well as public speaker,
is a dainty little specimen, as is also Lelia Michell,
who represented the Magazine of Poetry, how-
ever she comes in among the Press women who
will be written up in another article in this
number of the paper.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery is not only a very
efficient young woman, but is beginning to de-
velop the mother element in a marked degree.
She had her children with her, and one could
easily see what a devoted mother she was prov-
ing herself to be; and this fact disproves the

[Column 3]

argument so often brought forward by opponents
of woman suffrage that it would unfit young wo-
men for wives and mothers. Miss Foster was
very young when she commenced to take an
active part in the woman's movement, and she is
just as loving,as tender and as lovable, as though
she had never stepped outside the home circle.
	Miss Mary F. Eastman is one of the great
lights of the woman's movement. She has perhaps
the clearest method of expressing her ideas in
speaking extemporaneously of any woman on the
platform; and that is saying a great deal, for these
women are exceptionally clear headed as well as
brilliant.
	Mrs. Lyde Merriweather, with her decidedly
Southern style and accent, was one of the most
pleasing and attractive speakers; like many of
the others, her hair was very gray, almost white;
her speech was the most humorous and to many 
the most fascinating of all; she told the most
serious things in a way to make them attractive
and created more real merriment than any other
lady. She is fluent and mellifluous and has a
happy method of making people swallow "bitter
pills." She gave great truths in an effervescence
that people drank in from her charming lips and
voice, as they bubbled forth from the well filled
chalice beneath, which may make a lasting im-
pression upon those who listened, even though
taken in sparkling atoms.
	At a Convention like this, one sees and hears
so much that is good, and strong, lofty and ex-
hilarating, that it is difficult to select for a short
article the very best, because in fact it is all good,
better, best, and who is to decide which is the
highest and truest and noblest, out of so much
that is superlative. Rev. Anna H. Shaw, among
the ministers who were present should be men-
tioned separately if any one of them, because of
her great helpfulness throughout the entire week.
She possesses indomitable energy and great vigor
of mind and body; and not only has the courage
of her convictions, but is able to present her
ideas and views as vigorously and as ingenuously
as any ordained minister of "the male persua-
sion" could possibly do with fifty years practice.
	Miss Florence Belgarnie, of London attracted,
and deservedly, great attention at both the Coun-
cil and Convention, and she was indeed a pleas-
ing representative of the great Mother Country.
Miss Belgarnie was a Delegate to the Woman's
National Council from the "British Women's
Temperance Association," "The Women's Liberal
Federation," and other woman's organizations
In the N. A. W. S. A. Convention she spoke
upon the "Status of Women in England." She is
a very eloquent and spirited speaker and puts her
soul into her work; she overflows with vivacity
and is powerfully in earnest. England could not,
we think, have made a wiser choice. Miss
Belgarnie expects to lecture in several large cities
in the United States before returning to England.
She has come very highly recommended by in-
fluential people, as well as Societies, she brought
a letter of introduction to Hon. John W. Young
of our city, from a Member of Parliament. She
speaks up bravely for the working women.
	Miss Belgarnie read a Memorial of Greeting
from the women of Great Britain and Scotland,
addressed to the women of Wyoming. The
Memorial was sent to Representative Baker in
the House, and Senator Blair in the Senate. It
reads as follows:
	"We, the undersigned, women of Great Britain,
representing the societies named below, desire
to send, by our appointed delegate, Miss Florence
Belgarnie, our cordial congratulations to the
women of Wyoming on the triumph they have
won for all women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women of that State from political
serfdom.
	"We believe that the status of the women of a


[Column 1]

﻿nation is the measure of the progress attained
by the men of that nation, and that the men
and women of Wyoming, therefore, who stand
on the solid basis of political equality and full
right of citizenship, irrespective of sex, command
the highest respect and gratitude of all civilized
nations.
	"We believe also that the enfranchisement of
the women of the State of Wyoming is but a
step to the enfranchisement of the women of all
other States and nations, and we therefore offer
our sincere homage to that noble womanhood
on whose brow victory has placed the crown of
electoral freedom and equality.
	"Signed by the Central National Society for
Woman's Suffrage, the Woman's Franchise
Leagues, of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Bedford, Bridge-
port, Leicester, Nottingham, and York; the
Bristol Woman's Temperance Association, the
International Arbitration and Peace Society
the Woman Councilor's Society, the Woman's
Federal Association of Great Britain, and the
Principal of Somerville Hall,Oxford."
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby whose work on the Wo-
man's Tribune helps so much the cause of wo-
wan's enfranchisement everywhere, must not be
left out of this list of noted women, who were the
great lights in the Council and Convention. Mrs.
Colby was busy every moment (as editors
generally are), but she succeeded in getting time
to prepare a paper, and read it on the last even-
ing of the Convention; the title was, "The
Doll's House;" she described the doll wife, etc.,
and drew a very accurate picture of the situation
of such a wife, and gave apt illustrations of her
topic. She has a happy manner of presenting
unique subjects. She is doing effective work for
all women with her paper, and does not spare her-
self in the least, but enters heart and soul into
the practical management of it as well as the
editorial work.
	Isabella Beecher Hooker represented
Connecticut at the the Convention; she is one
of the best known women of the country; she
said she was tired of going down on her knees
to legislators, etc., she is certainly very witty and
always created mirthfulness in the audience
whenever she spoke, if it were but a word or two.
	The Washington Post in speaking of her said,
she had "a beautiful face, and the noble in-
tellectual features that characterize the Beecher
family;" and that she "bore a strong resemblance
to the face of the preacher and scholar, so long
the pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn."
	She is indeed a distinguished woman in ap-
pearance; once seen never to be forgotten. She
delivered quite a profound address (written) upon
"Women in Politics and Jurisprudence." She
defined politics thus: "Politics in a large sense,
meaning the science of government, includes of
course jurisprudence, or the science of law; but
treating these two separately, we will consider
politics as a method of administration, that being
the more common use of the term, and enquire
how party management will be effected by the
general participation of women in the use of the
ballot. She gave Webster's definition of juris-
prudence; a knowledge of the laws, customs and
rights of men in a state or community necessary
for the administration of justice." After elaborat-
ing upon this subject logically, Mrs. Hooker closed
her paper by saying, "thus you see, friends, the
only preparation women really need for discharg-
ing faithfully their duties of citizenship, even the
judicial, is a sense of responsibility,and that when
the legal opportunity is offered to the women of the
whole country, I believe they will not allow them-
selves to be outdone by the women of Wyoming."
	There were many other beautiful, talented, yea,
charming women, of whom it would be a pleasure
to write, who expressed sentiments and views
worthy of the highest consideration, but this

[Column 2]

article is already lengthy and at some future time
we may present to our readers, another galaxy of
these great and gifted women of the age.
	Mrs. Bertha Honore Palmer, President of the
lady board of managers of the World's Fair, is a
very handsome and graceful woman. Her speech
was of course upon the subject that at present
occupies her mind and thoughts; she made many
excellent suggestions, and added: "We urgently
request that each organization represented here
appoint a Committee of five of its most able wo-
men, to consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and present to us at an early
date their suggestions and advice as to how we
may best accomplish the great end we have in
view, and to inform us in what manner their as-
sociations will be able to co-operate with our
board in its work; and we ask that they send
their suggestions, applications for space, and so
forth, to our headquarters in Chicago, where they
will be gladly received and most carefully con-
side red and acted upon."

	"The board most cordially and pressingly in-
vites this Council to hold its international meet-
ing in Chicago at the time of the Columbian
Exposition, when it will place at the service of
the ladies, the assembly room in the Woman's
building, and should it not prove large enough,
through our congress auxiliary the magnificent
Auditorium can be secured for the International
Council of Women."
	Of the many women, whose names come loom-
ing up in the mind of the writer at this mo-
ment, and whose faces present themselves like
pictures ever present in memory, are a few we
must name here to be written of hereafter:
Elizabeth Yates, of Maine; Josephine N. Henry
of Kentucky; Ellen B. Deitrick, Mass.; Helen P.
Jenkins, Michigan; Julia B. Nelson, Minn.;
Emma Smith De Voe, South Dakota; Dr
Frances Dickinson, Chicago; Mrs. McCullough
of Pittsburg; Mrs. Freeman, of Cincinnati; Dr'
Gilchrist,of Ohio, a most charming and attractive
woman; Mary Seymour Howell and Mrs. C. K.
Hood, of New York; Lucy E. Anthony, Anna
Garlin Spencer, and scores besides.
	One, however, who must be mentioned here on
account of her valuable work for all women, is
Miss Mary F. Seymour, editor of the Business
Woman's Journal. She read a paper on the
"Occupations of Women at Date," a topic with
which she seemed perfectly familiar, and her
work in the field of labor she has chosen is a
practical illustration in herself of what energy and
determination can accomplish,coupled with talent
and executive ability. Her active work during
the week of the Council and Convention was a
positive proof of her success in the labor she has
undertaken.
	Then there were men who made speeches on
the subjects of woman suffrage, and kindred
topics, men whose names are as familiar as house-
hold words in the advocacy of suffrage, Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, of Boston, facetiously spoken of
by the ladies as "the son of his father;" Senator
J. M. Carey, of Wyoming, who received an ova-
tion that was seemingly very embarrassing, an
elegant and very large basket of magnificent
flowers, which he scarcely knew what to do with;
Senator Pickler, South Dakota; and Rev. F. A.
Hinckley,of Mass.
	The Utah Delegation must not be left out, for
they formed quite a conspicuous part of the affair,
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the Utah W. S.
A., made a five minutes speech, which we intend
publishing hereafter, and Emily S. Richards who
read a valuable paper in a clear voice and graceful
manner. Then Utah also had as delegates to the
Convention, Phebe Young Beattie and Electa
Bullock, who though not having an opportunity
to speak, did their share of voting, and as our

[Column 3]

dear Hannah T. King used to say "were excellent
listeners;" and Martha Greenhalgh was also there
as a Delegate and was a member of the Com-
mittee on Resolutions. Utah made a good show-
ing, the membership entitling her to twenty votes
the highest number from any state or territory.
	The officers of the National American Suffrage
Association for the year are: Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, President; Susan B. Anthony, Vice-
President; Alice Stone Blackwell, Recording
Secretary; Jane H. Spofford, Treasurer; Rachel
Foster Avery, Corresponding Secretary; Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee; Eliza
T. Ward, and Frederick A. Hinckley, Auditors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN WASHINGTON.
M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
"All quiet along the Potomac to-night."
	Yes, all is quiet, so far as the loud-tongued
voice of war is concerned, but the clarion notes
of Freedom's Goddess are heard on every hand;
not only are they ringing in the Capitol of 
America, but through the length and breadth of 
every nation; echoed, and re-echoed by all 
tongues, and all peoples.
	During the past week, many of God's noblest
sons and daughters have united heart and voice 
in an appeal for equal rights, not only for woman
but for humanity.  No narrow-minded distinctions
of creed or color, found a place upon their plat-
form.  In the assembly hall, in the hotels, on the 
streets, in all public places, were the delegates
and friends of this great movement fraternally
and heartily welcomed.  At the executive man-
sion all were kindly and courteously welcomed.
	Mrs. Harrison received the delegates by
special invitation, and Miss Willard gracefully 
presented each one by name.  The mistress of
the White House, attended by some of the ladies
of her family, received each one with a kindly
word, a genial smile, and a gentle hand.  President 
Harrison was equally gracious; though the im-
mense numbers which attended his receptions 
could not fail to have wearied him; still, that
cheerful, benignant face, showed no sign, and 
each one to whom he gave his hand received from
him a welcoming word and a pleasant smile.  The
 inhabitants of this beautiful city are hospitable
and courteous.  I, as no doubt did many others, 
received attentions, invitations and kindly
courteous greetings that placed me at once at
home, and I could hardly realize that this was my
first visit to the Capital of America.
	To describe Washington and its environs, in
the space I can occupy in the EXPONENT, would
be impossible; suffice it then to say, that the site
on which it stands has been well chosen, for it is
a splendid one.
	Its public buildings are massive and imposing,
if we except the White House, which is too small
and altogether inadequate to the requirements of
the head of this great republic; though I believe
it is in contemplation to enlarge it.  The sur-
rounding buildings are so large and imposing,
that they overshadow and partially eclipse the
smaller edifice.
	The reception rooms are much too small for
the needs of this rapidly growing nation, and the
sooner the contemplated enlargement and im-
provements are made, the better.
	One feature which has tended, somewhat, to
sadden us is the black drapery upon the public
offices.  They remind us that a gallant sailor,
a noble soldier, and a great statesman have
passed away; but the record of their chivalry and 
eloquence remains with us, and the nation is
comforted by the knowledge that it once pos-
sessed such men, while others will strive to emu-
late their valor and their virtues, and by so doing
in a measure supply their loss.


To individualise the many great and noble 
minded men and women I have had the honor 
and pleasure of associating with during my visit,
would be invidious, still I may be pardoned if I 
name a few of the most prominent, among whom 
are Wm. Lloyd Garrison, son of that great apostle 
of freedom, whose voice was heard so often in 
eloquent appeal for the emancipation of the
negro, and the son to-day is following in the foot-
steps of his father, fearlessly advocating the free-
dom of that older slave, woman. 
Another who deserves all praise is Senator 
Curey, of Wyoming, who, from the stage of 
Albaugh's Opera House, proclaimed Wyoming as
the "True Republic," and to whom a very beauti-
ful offering was presented by a few women 
It was a colossal bouquet of choice flowers. To 
this tribute of appreciation and welcome, I had
the pleasure of adding my mite. There are many 
more to whom I would like to give a prominent 
place, but as I said before, where so many are 
great, it would be invidious to enumerate a few.
Among the very pleasant gatherings that en-
livened our visit, should be mentioned Mrs. J.H.
Spofford's reception, held in the dining room of 
the Riggs House, which was gayly decorated for
the occasion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying
a conspicuous place at the top of the room. On 
Saturday, Feb. 21, there were assembled in that 
room, between 9 and 11 p.m., men and wo-
men of many creeds, and divers political opinions 
yet all laboring for one end, viz., the elevation of 
woman to her proper position in God's universe.
It is said that Washington is the "Paradise of 
the colored race," and truly I should think it was, 
for we find them everywhere; whatever you re-
quire done, a colored 'pusson' does it. As a 
rule they are polite, attentive and cheerful. The 
waiter, as you leave the table, smilingly hopes 
you have enjoyed your meal, the cab driver ex-
presses the same hope as to your ride, and so on 
through all the various positions in which you 
come in contact with him.
We meet many who appear to be in good cir-
cumstances, at least their appearance would 
warrant you in thinking so; they are well dressed,
stately in bearing, and in most cases intelligent 
and well informed. We seldom meet a "colored 
gentleman" and a white man together, but they 
ride in the same street cars, and seem more at 
home in the Capitol than in any other place in 
America that I have visited.
After the dome of the Capitol, the Washington 
monument is the most conspicuous building. As 
you approach the city by railway, the white dome
stands out in bold relief against the blue sky.
The Washington monument is a plain obelisk,
strongly resembling an enlarged Cleopatra's 
needle. In the interior is an elevator, by which 
you can ascend to a gallery near the top, and 
from the windows an extensive view of the sur-
rounding country is obtained.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN'S INTERNATIONAL
		PRESS FEDERATION.
	One of the very pleasing features of the
writer’s visit to Washington was the friendly
association with press women in the pre-
liminary and actual work of arranging for
the formation of a press federation. The object
being to unite the newspaper women of the
world on some general ground that will be of
great advantage to those interested in each
other’s methods, and the uplifting of women in
the great world of progress. That union is
strength, has been pretty well conceded in
organizations of many various kinds. Several
local press associations have been formed by 
women during the last few years, and meet-
ings and clubs have given these women quite
an experience in coming together and getting
acquainted in a very friendly manner, that
[Column 2]
increases their respect for each other and
makes their affinities stronger and deeper,
and their ideas broader and more cosmo-
politan. The effect will doubtless be elevat-
ing both to the workers and the work. That the
union of women in the newspaper world will
have a tendency to greater refinement in that
line of work there can be no manner of doubt.
	The press women of Washington some years
since, formed an organization called the
National Press Association, and have held
their meetings regularly and given entertain-
ments, etc., and it was through a call by the
President and officers of the Association that 
the meetings were called.
	The first meeting of press women was in the
parlors of Willard’s Hotel, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 24. Mrs.
M. D. Lincoln, Pres. of National Press Associa-
tion,in the chair; there were present gifted
and talented women from various sections of
the country. One of the most noted, perhaps,
was Mrs. Kate Tannett Woods, of Rhode
Island the author of many books, and a lady
whose name is well known throughout the 
United States and the world. Mrs. Martha
Field, of New Orleans, better known as
Catherine Cole; Dr. Rosetta K. Gilchrist of
Ohio another celebrity; Belva Lockwood, of 
Washington, Dr. Murphy, of Toledo, Ohio;
Lilia Michell, representing the Magazine of
Poetry, Buffalo, New York; and many more,
some of them residents of Washington, and
others from a distance; the rooms were filled
with ladies whose very presence was inspiring,
and who created an atmosphere of intellectual
thought and aspirations.
	Expressions as to what should be done led
to revealing what had been done, and it was
soon ascertained that Women's Press Associa-
tions had been organized in New England,
New York, Ohio, Illinois and Kansas, besides
the National one, and that there were repre-
sentatives present from each of these. After
some discussion as to uniting. the name for
such an organization was considered, and the
naming of the association proved to be of im-
portance; it took up more time and really
brought out more brilliant ideas than the plan
itself; a great many witty things were said, by
bright young women and just as many by deep
and thoughtful older ones. Finally setting
aside temporarily the name, a motion was
made to which one or two amendments were
offered, that at last resulted in a resolution
which was presented and carried, to the effect
that a committee of seven be appointed to
draw up a Constitution that could be sub-
mitted to the women of the world for their
suggestion and approval, and presented at
another meeting to be held on Feb. 26. Mrs.
Annie Diggs of Kansas, Chairman, She repre-
sented the Kansas Press Association; Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the National Press Ass'n.;
Miss Mary Allen West, the Illinois Press
Ass'n; Mrs. Estelle M.H. Merrill, the New
England Press Ass'n; Mrs. Minerva M.
Merrill, the New York Press Ass'n.; Dr. R.
K. Gilchrist, the Ohio Press Ass'n.; and Mrs.
E. B. Wells to represent the West where no
such Ass'n., had been formed. Miss Helen
M. Winslow, of Boston, was also present by 
invitation though not a member of the Com-
mittee.
	This Committee on Constitution met in the
Riggs House parlors the following morning,
and with a great deal of deliberation and in-
terchange of ideas set about the work.
	It took some time to get the ideas crystalized
and put upon paper but when women with
marked executive ability undertake to pre-
pare a Constitution, they are sure to carry
into effect the purpose for which they started
out. The meeting of this committee brought
the ladies into such close proximity, and the 
the free and full discussion necessarily entered
[Column 3]
inso seemed to make each one feel happily 
acquainted with all the others.
	The Constitution as published in our
columns, was completed and the name given.
"The Woman's International Press Federa-
tion" this was the outcome of a desire not to
encroach upon the name National as adopted
by the Washington Ass'n., and also because
it would include the Women's Press Associa-
tions of other countries, it being well known
there was one in active operation in Australia,
and in some other lands. The Committee
decided how to get the Constitution before
the other Press Associations of the country
and adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the Willard
Hotel parlors the following day, and the 
Constitution submitted and the Committee
dismissed, but after some consideration of the
matter it was finally decided it would be
proper for a committee to meet, and such a
committee with Mrs. Martha Field, of
New Orleans to represent Southern women,
to appoint, while in session, a Chairman and
Secretary to take in hand the preparatory
work necessary to calling a meeting of delegates
from the Women's Press Associations in all
parts of the country and notifying those abroad
to send delegates or letters. The President
and Secretary were chosen by ballot, which
resulted as follow, Belva A. Lockwood Chair-
man, Annie S. Diggs, Secretary. It was pro-
posed that a meeting of Delegates should be 
held in Boston in October next, but the mat-
ter was not decided. The National Press Asso-
ciation is anxious the meeting be held at the 
seat of government in Washington.


CONSTITUTION. 

ARTICLE I.—NAME.

	This Association shall be called the Wo-
man’s International Press Federation.
	ARTICLE II.—OBJECT.
	The object of this Federation is to bring
into communication with each other the
various women’s press clubs throughout the
world, in order that they may compare methods
of work and become mutually helpful; to ele-
vate the work and the workers, and to forward
by concerted action through the press, such
philanthropic movements as may commend
themselves to the Federation.
	ARTICLE III.—OFFICERS AND DELEGATES
	Section 1. The officers of the Woman’s In-
ternational Press Federation shall be a presi-
dent, first vice-president, and a vice president rep-
resenting each club composing the Federation,
a recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
a treasurer, and an auditor of accounts.
These officers shall constitute an executive,
committee, which shall transact the business of
the Federation and report to the Federation at
each regular annual meeting.	
	Sec. 2. The president, first vice-president,
recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
treasurer and auditor of accounts shall be
nominated and elected at annual meetings by
ballot. A majority vote of officers and dele-
gates present shall constitute an election. The
president of each club in the Federation shall be
vice-president of the Federation, or a club
may elect a vice-president from among its
members.
	Sec. 3. No member shall hold more than
one office at the same time. No officer shall be
eligible to election for the same office for more
than one term consecutively. Each officer shall,
hold office until the adjournment of the next
annual meeting. In case of a vacancy, the
executive committee shall appoint a member 
to serve till her successor be elected, at the
annual meeting following her election.


Sec. 4. Each club, belonging to the Federa-
tion should be represented at the annual meet-
ings by their president and one delegate, who
shall both be entitled to vote, and one of
whom shall present to the meeting a written
report of club work. In the absence of any
regular delegate, such delegate may be repre-
sented by an alternate.
    Sec 5. Members of clubs which have
regularly entered the Federation may be
present at any annual meeting and may take
part in discussion upon all measures brought
forward, but shall not introduce motions or
vote.
ARTICLE IV.—CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.
    Sec. 1. A woman’s press club desiring to
join the Federation should apply to the cor-
responding secretary of the Federation, and
should send to her a copy of its constitution
and by-laws, also a sketch of its history.
    Sec. 2. The secretary of the Federation
shall present the name and the credentials of
the club to the executive committee. By vote
of the executive committee a club may be
elected a member of the Federation of women’s
clubs. On admission of members and other
important business a vote by mail may be
taken when considered necessary by the
general officers.   
    Sec. 3. A club in order to be eligible to
membership in the Women’s International
Press Federation must possess the following
qualifications:—First, a constitution which
shall show by its plan of work that it is a press
club and not purely a literary association; and
second, a record of not less than one year of
organized club life.
ARTICLE V.—MEETINGS AND DUES.
    Sec. 1. The meetings of the Federation
shall be held annually— time and place to be
decided upon by the executive committee.
    Sec. 2 The annual dues of each club shall
be $10 payable at the annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VI.—AMENDMENTS.
    This constitution may be amended at any
annual meeting of the Federation by a two-
thirds vote of the members present, the pro-
posed amendment having been approved by
the executive committee; and notice of the
same appended to the call for the meeting.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of meeting of the Salt Lake Co.
Woman’s Suffrage Association, held at the
14th Ward R. S. Hall, Feb. 17th, 1891.
	Called to order by Pres. Elizabeth Howard.
	Prayer by M. Isabella Horne.
	Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
Names of 65 ladies who wished to become
members of the Association, were presented
and voted in.	
	The by-laws and regulations of the
Association were read by the Secretary. 
	Pres. Elizabeth Howard made some remarks
upon the purity of elections and thought
that women who were rearing sons to vote,
should themselves be voters. The Mormons
had been charged with disloyalty, but we know
that the charge is false. Read an extract from
a paper presented at the Woman's National
Council, advocating the adoption of the
Golden Rule in our Associations.
	M. Isabella Horne said she had always
been a suffragist, and believed that in the
beginning men and women were born equal,
but that since the fall, man had not only exercised
the authority given him over women, but had
usurped some. Society needs reforming and
purifying, and very much depends upon the
mothers. Thought that the same purity of
character should be required of men as of
omen; do not b elieve in women taking the


places of men, but in their having equal pay
for equal work. Our husbands, sons, brothers,
and fathers, gave us the franchise before
when we had it, and we have faith to believe
that we will have it again.
    Elizabeth Paul said she had always been a
suffragist at heart, and had noticed in her
childhood the difference in the treatment of
little boys and girls, and thought much
depended on the home training. Had always
availed herself of the privilege of voting, as
long as she had the right, and would rejoice
when she had it again.
    Margaret Mitchell thought that the mothers
should be as free as the fathers, as a slave
mother was not a pleasant sight. Women were
naturally just, as well as naturally virtuous.
We should not treat our sons better than our
daughters. Try and inform our minds concern-
ing our present and future position, and felt
that we were moved upon by the same Spirit
that inspired the founders of this great
government, under which we live.
    Elizabeth McFarlane made a stirring speech,
and read a beautiful poem, illustrating
woman’s devotion in times of war. Said that
we must assert our rights, and we would get
them. Equal rights should be our motto.
There are men among us to day who are as
anxious to see women have the ballot, as
we are to have it.
    Pres. Howard announced that as we were
having a new Suffrage song book prepared,
we would probably have some music at
our next meeting, and also have a more
commodious place to meet in. Adjourned
subject to call of the President.
	C. C. Raleigh, Sec.


[Column 1]

	FAMOUS BEAUTIES.

	Two women whose prominent positions up-
on the stage have made their beauty of
world-wide fame, are Mary Anderson and
Cora Urquhart Potter, who are both dis-
tinctively American in their type, though
very unlike one another in feature. Both
are tall, exquisitely slim, with faces of a
flower-like softness and delicacy, and with a
certain air of fine, keen brilliance and vivacity
that is seen in the faces of no other type.
They both have Scotch blood in their veins,
Mrs. Potter's being of the Lowland Scotch
and the Celtic Highlander, from which latter
she inherited her splendid red hair.  Miss
Anderson is a Californian by birth, her descent
being German and Scotch.  From her birth
she was beautiful, a sort of Watteau-baby, all
pink and white and gold.  As she passed from
childhood into girlhood, she suddenly shot up
to her present height, and like all over-grown
girls, was for a time lean, awkward and un-
beautiful.  But, as the roundness of woman-
hood came, and with it grace and self-confi-
dence, her baby beauty all reappeared, and
at sixteen, America awoke to the fact that
there had appeared on the stage a woman
destined to be famous for her beauty as well
as her art. Mary Anderson was born in
Sacramento in 1859, and removed to Louis-
ville, Kentucky, whiel still a small child, re-
maining there until her sixteenth year, when
she made her first appearance on the stage
in Albaugh's Opera House, playing for one
night only in "Romeo and Juliet," to a busi-
ness of forty-eight dollars.  Her next appearance
was in New Orleans, and the rest of her
career is well know to the public.
	A charming story is told of Mary Anderson's
girlhood in Kentucky, si non e vero e ben
trovato. Her parents were not rich at the
time, and she sometimes went on errands that
should have been the duty of the servants.
One evening just at dusk she caught up an
old hat and ran without, a pitcher in her

[Column 2]
hand. Louisville is quiet enough on the more
retired streets at that hour for one to hope
that such an errand might pass unobserved.
She was then a tall, angular girl of fourteen,
desperately shy and conscious of her dress and
hat, and when she saw coming around the
corner one of the local young swells, she
made a dash in the other direction, but like
sweet Kitty of Coleraine, her foot tripped, she
stumbled, the pitcher it tumbled.  The young
man gave one irrepressible laugh, and next
moment ran forward and picked up the red,
wretched and discomfited maiden, who flung
away from his inquiries and offers of assistance
and ran home in tears. Twelve or more
years later, when the provincial swell had be-
come a celebrated journalist, he was bidden to
a reception in honor of the young actress who
had conquered all the English-speaking
people.  When he was presented she held out
her hand impulsively and cried: "I have wait-
ed for this, twelve years; it is one of my
triumphs.” Then, to his puzzled inquiries, she
replied; “Do you remember the little girl
who fell down in Louisville one evening?  I
suppose not; but I went home and cried all
the night, as only a girl of that age can weep
over a goucherie.  I knew you by sight and
reputation, and thought you a very splendid
person, and I vowed then through my tears
that I would some day revenge myself for
that laugh by becoming famous enough to
make you feel it an honor to meet me.  And
I have never forgotten the episode, because
it was the first step I made on the road I
have since traveled.”
	Mrs Potter is a native of New Orleans,
having been born there about thirty years ago.
She came of a family that had long been
wealthy and prominent in the South, and like
Miss Anderson, grew up suddenly into an ugly
awkward girl, who matured into a great beauty.
She had always a mass of brilliant, red bronze
hair, long, fine dark eyes, and skin of exquisite
delicacy, aad a beautifully modeled face, which
to this day has never lost one of its rounded,
childlike contours.  Her teeth are perfect,
and her smile peculiarly sweet and beguiling.
She was nursed in her babyhood by a negro 
mammy, waited upon in childhood by troops
of small darkies, lived the life of the average
Louisiana child, which means existence out of
doors for the better part of the entire year,
and being fed upon fruit and sugar cane.
When the lean girl was suddenly meta-
morphosed into a tall maid, slim and supple
as a serpent, crowed with a mass of ruddy
locks, and dowered with an unalterable
determination to have her own way, older
people wagged their heads wisely and
oracularly: "She will go far!"  At an early
age she married James Brown Potter, a
member of the aristocratic New York family
that had given two bishops to the diocese, and
had a career of unexampled social success in
a city where such careers are not common
without great wealth to back them.  She
organized and developed amateur theatricals
to a point they have never before or since
attained, and finally deserted her social world
for a professional career.  She has one
daughter, eight or nine years of age, who
inherits much of her mother's beauty and
emotional temperament, and who lives with her
father, seeing her other parent only at rare
intervals. Whatever may be the verdict as to
Mrs. Potter's ability as an actress, about her
very wonderful beauty there can be no two
opinions.
	Mrs. Potter has created many a stir in
fashionable circles both at home and abroad,
not only by the beauty of her face, but the
graciousness of her manner as well.  Her
strong position as a society belle enabled her
to take an independent stand on matters of
fashion, particularly in expressing her fond-


ness for artistic dress. It is related how one
day, at a reception in London, conversation
turned upon the supposed scarcity of American
materials for elegant dresses. “You have no
domestic manufactories of rich dress-goods, I
believe,” said an English friend. “Have we
not?” she replied; “I will astonish you at the
next reception by wearing an American
fabric.
	This was told from one end of London to the
other, and when the night came and most of
the people were assembled, Mrs. Potter entered,
looking as if she were a picture cut from an
old painting, in a fascinating and original
dress. Its pattern was a terra-cotta silk of
soft, pale color, beneath which were distinct
dreamy suggestions of pink flowers and green
leaves blended in exquisite harmony, trimmed
with coffee-colored lace, and with a gold
girdle around the waist. “Is that lovely fabric
really the product of American looms?” asked
her friend. “Yes, and of American design,
and better still the designer is a woman,”
said Mrs. Potter, “I like to wear these dresses,
particularly as they convince English society
that America is not without artistic taste of
the highest order.”
	In private life Mrs. Potter is even more
charming than on the stage. Her face lights
up when she talks earnestly, as she very often
does, and the fire of her eyes carries conviction
not less than her rapidly-uttered and well-
chosen words. A woman of brain and nerves,
it is scarcely to be wondered at that she
sought relief from vapid society life in some-
thing that, whatever else must be said about
it, at least calls for intense energy and
action. 
				ELIZABETH BISLAND.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	ADVANCEMENT OF WOMEN.

MRS. FRANK LESLIE’S DISPOSITION OF HER
		GREAT FORTUNE. 

	NEW YORK, March 9, 1891. Mrs. Frank
Leslie will make a new will on Wednesday,
by which the bulk of her fortune, amounting
to at least $600,000, will be left in trust for
the establishment of a great institution for
the instruction of women, and the advance-
ment of a higher education of the sex. Mrs.
Leslie, when seen by a reporter to-day said:
“I have not entirely crystallized my plans
as yet, but the main point is this: I want
to establish an institution to help women
who can and will help themselves. I
am very much interested in art. In
fact, if I had taken my own way
I should have been an artist. Therefore,
art students occupy a prominent position
in my planning. The building must, first of
all, have lecture rooms, good studios and
facilities for instruction in painting, and in
addition, a large hall expressly constructed
with a view to its suitability for exhibitions
of pictures. I also think very favorably of
making provision for advanced students to
take continental courses of instruction in
art, though upon that point I am not entirely
decided.
	Of course, literature will also be provided
for, and I think there is a very great neces-
sity for some course of instruction in that
profession. Nowadays, I am sorry to say,
nearly every young girl in the land appears
to think all she has to do is to take a pen in
her hand and become straightway a full
fledged authoress. Why, do you know, I
have over 600 manuscripts offered me every
week, and the majority of them are just ter-
rible.
	“The sum I shall devote to the project will
be the proceeds from the sale of my business.
I value it at present at $600,000, which
[Column 2]
amount I think none to high. About a year
ago I sold the Illustrated Newspaper to Mr.
Arkell for $300,000, and my Popular Monthly,
as an investment, is worth twice as much as
that, not to mention my six other publica-
tions.
	“Within the next few months I expect to
start two new papers. One will be devoted
entirely to women and their interests; the
other will be a Spanish publication, intended
to circulate through Spanish America. I
have no near relatives except one niece, who
is married to a very wealthy man in the
West. I shall leave her my houses
and jewels. I am not so young as I once
was, and although the next ten years will not
be the best of my life, still I intend to enjoy
the fortune I have earned. Then, if I am
still living, I intend to go ahead and build my
woman’s Institute. I am deluged with
begging letters continually, but there
is a class of letters that I would
like to get, however, and that is letters writ-
ten by sensible people interested in the ad-
vancement of women, who would suggest
ideas in relation to the institute I contem-
plate founding. I wish you would say that,
for the public might help me greatly in this
matter.
	“I talked the matter over last night at the
Press Club with Mrs. Croley and others of
my friends, and they were united in thinking
this the best object to which I could devote
my fortune. Don’t you think it strange
that it has never occurred to any woman
before to found an institute for women? I am
a woman’s woman all through, and although
my business has necessarily brought me much
into contact with men, and into public notice,
still all my sympathies and hopes are with
women, and I want my money to benefit
them.”—Boston Herald.


The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book"
in pamphlet form is now ready; price, 10cts
per copy. Send orders to this office, 25, E.
South Temple St. Salt Lake City.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It costs more to revenge wrongs than to
bear them.
	Modesty and a quiet tongue is a safeguard
to virtue.
	Small faults indulged are little thieves that
let in greater.
	Virtue and happiness are mother and
daughter.
	It is to a woman that the heart appeals
when it needs consolation.


OBITUARY.

	It is with feelings of sadness we announce the death o
our worthy young sister, Melisa Mariah McDermott, who
passed peacefully away from mortality at her father's resi-
dence in Clifton, Idaho, Feb. 10, 1891.
	She was seventeen years and one week old, a patient,
obedient daughter and a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	She was attending the B. Y. College at Logan, Utah
and while spending the holidays at home the family was
stricken with the measles. Her mother being in feeble
health the care of the family fell upon her, and patiently
she waited on her five younger brothers and sisters through
their sickness, she being the last to take the fatal malady.
She suffered much during her five weeks' illness. All was
done for her that loving hearts and willing hands could do.
	She was always a good, faithful and obedient child, and
second counselor in our Primary Association; and was
willing to do all that lay in her power for the advance-
ment of the work. She manifested in her labors that meek
and unselfish disposition characteristic of a true saint of
God.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup.
WOMAN'S 
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children.
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS, 
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

[union pacific logo] Tickets
				ON SALE
				TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
		AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. Eccles,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortments of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address DAVID JAMES, BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

