VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1891.		NO. 23.


CONTENTS.

	Reminiscences—C. D. P. A National Temple
for Women. Labor in Literature—M. L. Payne.
Take a Woman's Paper—Woman's Chronicle.
Royalty at Work. Longfellow's Evangeline.
Miscellaneous. Birthday Anniversary. A Utah
Girl in London—Lib. R. S. Report. W. S. A.
Reports. Woman's Progress in Higher Educa-
tion—Helen L. Webster. The Wimodaughsis
Property. Invented by Women. Notes and News.
A Saddened Home—Ella A. C. Gillam.
	EDITORIAL:—Birthday of Brigham Young. Y.
M. M. I. A. Meeting and Fair. Editorial Notes.
Miss Willard's Defense. Transactions of the
National Council of Women.
	POETRY:—Peace—A. Furber.—Lucky Days—
Harriet Prescott Spofford. Thoughts and Memo-
ries of a Summer Hour—E. B. W. The Mystic
Bed—Ada Stanley. Hast Thou Been Tempted—
E. W. Hull.


PEACE.

God give you peace! your life will have its longings,
	I would not ask they be less keen and deep;
The soul that firmly stands upon the mountains
	Must know the footing of the pathway steep;
It must have trod the valleys dim and low
	And tented where the streams of silence flow.

For you no blank content of heart or brain
I crave, but I would have you, friend, to drain
	The cup of all wide living, feed and grow
Full rich in wealth of feeling, have you know
The strength of strong desire, and bravely face
The close temptations of our struggling race.
I would not spare you strife and weariness,
Nor beg that powers of darkness never press
	Anear your feet; yet ever do I pray
	The rest of God be with you all the way!

		A. FURBER.


LUCKY DAYS.

BY HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.

When May with apple blossoms
	Her loving-cup is brewing,
With beams and dews and winds that get
The honey from the violet,
With hopes on which the heart is set,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad the time for wooing!

When August calls the locust
	To sound the year's undoing,
And like some altar dresed of old
In drapery of cloth and gold,
High pastures thick with broom unfold,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing.
	Dear lad, the time for wooing!

When brown October pauses,
	The ripened woodland viewing,
And all the sunny forests spread
Their fallen leaves, as heart's blood red,
A carpet fit for brides to tread,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad the time for wooing!

Oh, listen; happy lover,
	Your happy fate pursuing:
When fields are green, when woods are sere,
When storms are white, when stars are clear,
On each sweet day of each sweet year,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad, the time for wooing!

		—Harper's Bazar.


THOUGHTS AND MEMORIES OF A
SUMMER HOUR.

Mem'ry is busy in her haunted bow'r,
	Clad with bright thoughts the senses to beguile;
So softly falls the touch of passing hour,
	That dreamy fancies linger near the while.

I hear soft voices murmur'ng low and sweet;
	I feel the touch of gentle hands again;
And in the shadow of some lone retreat,
	I e'en forget I ever suffer'd pain.

Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flow'rs spring up afresh where all was drear;
And somthing whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign, devoid of fear.

There seems a rapture in the summer breeze,
	Borne from some region ever bright and fair;
How lovingly it plays amid the trees,
	Breathing "enchantment in the azure air."

O memory of the years now past away,
	Buried and dead, but living still in thought;
Nature was then as prescient as to day,
	And her conceptions were as grandly wrought.

Eearth rob'd herself as queenly then, as now,
	And summer mantled hill, and field, and plain,
And garlanded with flow'rs her biushing brow,
	And wreath'd her sceptre with the golden grain.

Yes, other summers have in glory woke,
	And sunshine flooded nature with its kiss;
But time's relentless hand the spell has broke,
	Though earth were in an ecstacy of bliss.

In the weird rustle of the falling leaves,
	There is a sadness touching to the heart,
For summer her departing glory grieves,
	Yet nobly doth she with her treasures part.

She sighs her requiem to the passing breeze;
	All natuae joins her in the mournful strain;
A thousand echoes whisper in the trees,
	Repeating o'er and o'er the sad refrain.

And is there in our hearts no sad regret,
No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget?
	Or glean, and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves,

Where fancy's magic wand can recreate,
	And live again the happy seasons o'er,
Food for the mind, 'gainst bitter, adverse fate,
	Harvest of thoughts to gladden evermore.

		E. B. W.


REMINISCENCES.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Here are a few lines for your paper if you
think them worth your notice.
	Sister Snow’s speech in your last EXPONENT
brings to mind many recollections, and par-
ticularly of that occasion.
	Some of the sisters who resided, and still
remain in that place, will, no doubt, remember
with pleasure the enjoyable time we had at 
that meeting.  Over twenty years have passed
since then, and many dear ones have gone be-
hind the vail; among the number is Sister
Eliza R. Snow; and although her mortal body
slumbers in the silent grave, her noble works
still live to her honor and praise.
	Sugar House Ward, at that time, reached
as far as the first Ward (and took in what is
now Farmers Ward) also in the opposite direc-
tion a good distance past the penitentiary;
untiring were the desires and efforts of our


dear sisters to glean and bring the fruits of
their labors to help the poor, and comfort the
sick and dying.  Some travelled miles to go
over their district, wading through mud and
mire, day after day; and they were blessed in-
deed.  It was one of the first Societies organ-
ized and in a very scattered condition.
	Only the eighth meeting—how feeble we
were—how small;—how good we felt, how
encouraged, by her comforting words; we re-
ceived new strength and fortitude, more ambi-
tion, feeling really that we were doing some-
thing to help the work along; soothing the
sick and afflicted, relieving the wants of the
poor, helping to carry the burdens of the weary 
and heavy laden, comforting those who mourn,
and endeavoring to reclaim the wayward, and
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leadeth to Eternall ife; this is the kind of work
that brings joy and consolation to the soul.
	I remember well the Relief meetings in
Nauvoo, held in Brother Joseph’s store
situated on Water street, on the banks of the
Mississippi river, on several particular occa-
sions; Brother Hyrum’s Brick office also, a
little further up on the bank of the river
where we used to go to school, and a great
many other things come to our minds when we
refer to long ago; scenes and trials the saints
of God have passed through, since the be-
ginning up to the present time, pass before the
mind like a vision and cause us to reflect
seriously, and our hearts fill with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father, that He has brought us
out from Babylon that we may not be per-
takers of her sore afflictions; that we may have
a chance by obedience to His laws and keep-
ing the commandments, and not going hand 
in hand with the world, but living near unto
Him to prepare ourselves for something bet-
ter.
								C. D. P.


A NATIONAL TEMPLE FOR WOMEN.

	During the early part of the session Monday
evening the exercises were pleasantly varied
by the presentation from the National Chau-
tauqua Association of a gift of land for the
erection of a temple, at Glen echo, for the
future meeting of the Council. The gift also
included the granite of which the temple is to
be built. The deed was read by Mr. L. D. F.
Jennings. The gift was accepted by the presi-
dent Miss Willard, and by the treasurer, Mrs.
M. Louise Thomas, who announced that the
Women's National Council had secured an act
of incorporation in the District of Columbia
which would empower them to accept any
other gifts that might be made to the Asso-
ciation.
	"I want you to understand, friends," said
she, "that the idea embodied in this Chau-
tauqua Association and its relation to women
is the idea of a woman. A woman's mind
conceived it and a woman's heart moved the
hearts of the givers to make this beautiful do-
nation to the Council. I would like to tell
you what Clara Barton said of the woman who
first thought of this." Mrs. Thomas then read the
following extract from an article written by
Clara Barton:
	Seven years ago, in the turmoil and confu-
sion of the New Orleans Exposition, where
effort failed, endeavor languished, hope


perished, and the stoutest natures gave way, I
marked a woman whose patient and persistent
labors, day by day, attracted me like a magnet.
I followed her to her "pavilion" to find
she had nothing to sell, no profits to expect
but ideas to promulgate for the uplifting of hu-
manity.
	A graduate of old Chautauqua in the North,
she was laboring to up-build a new one in the
South, and succeeded, and De Funiak Springs,
in the western arm of Florida, the only Chau-
tauqua in the South at that time, was the re-
sult of that patient toil. I followed her history
to find that this result was fraught not with
personal or pecuniary gain, but with the sac-
rifice of health and strength and in the face of
heavy loss.
	A few weeks ago I was informed of the fact
of the princely gift of land and material aid
foy a National Chautauqua at our own door,
my co-operation was asked and I was also told
that an experienced woman was active in the
movement. "The name?" "Mrs. Susie Birch
Jennings." The memories rolled back. She
was Susie Birch at New Orleans. The name
was a talisman. Perseverance, earnestness,
good judgment and experience should bring
success; and a great wave of grateful confi-
dence swept over my heart for the other gift
of that faithful worker in this new vineyard
of the Lord. It was the hand of this woman
that Mrs. Leland Stamford clasped in hers as
she uttered these eloquent and heartfelt words:
"We have a Catholic University; a Methodist
University in progress; now comes a Chau-
tauqua, with its grand amphitheater, that over-
shadows them all."
	Mrs. Thomas then introduced Mrs. Susie
Birch Jennings and Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
The ladies were greeted with applause by the
audience and responded in graceful and fitting
remarks.
	Mrs. Thomas then said: "Our idea in our
temple is to have a representation of every in-
terest among women. We have already re-
ceived one pledge of $10,000 through Clara
Barton. The woman who has made this pledge
is Mrs. Roby, President of the Grand Army of
the Republic among women, who heads an or-
ganization of forty thousand. If she can ob-
tain one dollar from each of her constituents
her benefactions will not stop but will aid
greatly in the building of the temple.
	"Now the work is before ns. Do not let it
die or grow cold in your hearts. Remember
that we wait your message."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LABOR IN LITERATURE.

MKS. M.	L. RAYNE.

"Learn to labor and to wait."
	To the writers who send out their crude
thoughts and unfledged ideas to the standard
magazines of the country the following remarks
from an authority on the subject may not
come amiss:
	In answer to the question, "What kind of manuscript
de you desire?" Mr. Gilder of the Century says: "The
very best poem, the very best novel, or short story, essay
or descriptive article that can be written in the English
language, and especially by an American writer, is in
constant demand. What a young and ambitious and
unknown writer most needs is not influence or introduc-
tions, but brave and self-searching criticisms, and the
hardest kiud of work in the perfection of his material, be
t verse or prose."
	If these writers would read the magazines
in question, analyze their articles, catch that
snbtile, attractive quality, known as genius,
which has won their acceptance, and then
labor hard to create some poem or paper of
equal merit and interest, there might be a
chance that they would succeed. It might not


be as writers for the higher magazines, but as
humble toilers in the vale of letters. Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes works harder to evolve
a bright thought, and does more patient
drudgery to polish and improve it. than any
of the obscure writers would condescend to do.
One who knows him says that he writes, re-
writes, interlines and turns his sentences to
catch every possible reflection of his genius.
It is this constant respect for the art he
practices that gives to his writings their
brilliancy and their rippling flow.
	A new writer who was waiting for inspira-
tion was advised to try a little perspiration. If
an excutioner were appointed and your head
were to come off if you did not produce a good
poem or cheerful essay, you—the laggard in
literature—would achieve something worth do-
ing. There are people who are actually too
lazy to think. They plead that it gives them
a headache. They would call it time wasted
to spend twenty-four hours over the matching
of rhymes in order to get a perfect frame for
a crystallized thought. Yet a thought may be
a winged soul, carrying messages of hope and
comfort to the ends of the earth. We hear of
geniuses in lonely farm-houses bursting full- 
blown upon the waiting world, but we know
nothing of the years during which the
thoughts were worked out, the scenes enacted
in the mind of the writer, and the plot develop-
ed. Of one thing be sure. There was much
painstaking, much labor of love or sorrow, be-
fore the book with its fair leaves reached our
scanning eyes. As an example read the life
of Charlotte Bronte, and see what her prepera-
tion was for writing her great novel Jane
Eyre.
		The Answer.


TAKE A WOMAN'S PAPER.

	It will be found by those who care to in-
vestigate, that for men there are upwards
of 17,000 papers issued, while for women there
are not more than fifty. Yet the excuse most
frequently given by women, when asked to
subscribe to a woman's paper is, "My husband
takes so many papers that I do not feel that I
can afford to take this one." Would it not be
better for the husband to do with one paper
less, and let the wife have a chance to learn
what women are doing in the world?" If he
requires as a man to know what men are do-
ing, does not she, as a woman, need like infor-
mation concerning the work accomplished by
her sex.—Woman's Chronicle.


ROYALTY AT WORK.

	The daughters of the Princess of Wales,
says Lady Elizabeth Hilary in The Ladies'
Home Journal, are sensibly educated. They
know how to sew so well that they can make
their own gowns, and their knowledge of every
art taught them is thorough. They can go
into the kitchen and cook—cook well; they
understand the art of breadmaking, and if
they were ever thrown upon their own re-
sources would be able to take care of them-
selves. And this has been done not only as an
example to other mothers in the kingdom, but
because her Royal Highness thought it right
for her daughters. I wonder how many of the
daughters of American gentlewomen could
make butter, sew, paint, are good musicians,
have a knowledge of sculpture and can read
and speak three or four languages? And yet
this is true of the daughters of the Princess of
Wales, who was herself, while thoroughly edu-
cated, taught all the industries that would be
a part of the knowledge of a daughter of ordi-
nary gentlefolk. Sweet-faced, healthy-looking
girls, they are always.


LONGFELLOW'S EVANGELINE

	Here is the story of how Longfellow's
famous poem of "Evangeline" came to be
written: "Hawthorne dined one day with
Longfellow, and brought with him a friend
from Salem. After dinner the friend said,
"I have been trying to persuade Hawthorne
to write a story, based upon a legend of
Acadie, and still current there—the legend
of a girl who, in the dispersion of the Aca-
dians, was separated from her lover, and
passed her life in waiting and seeking for
him, and found him only when dying in a
hospital when both were old." Longfellow
wondered that this did not strike the fancy
of Hawthorne, and said to him, "If you
have really made up your mind not to use
it for a story, will you give it to me for a
poem?" To this Hawthorne assented, and,
moreover, promised not to treat the subject
in prose till Longfellow had seen what he
could do with it in verse."


Miss Margaret Schutt, a maiden lady, of
Derry, Pa., died recently at the age of sixty-five.
Her entire life has been devoted to hard work,
and since her father died, early in the seventies
she had been a plain domestic in the families
of the neighborhood. She dressed plainly
venturing only from the beaten path in wearing
a bustle. For some years she had been living
with a family named Bennett, from whose
house she was buried. After the funeral the
Misses Bennett went to clearing up the room
Miss Schutt had occupied. Such things as
were of no use they cast into into the fire.
When they came to the bed-ticking bustle
worn by the deceased, it was promptly pitched
into the flames, but was for some reason im-
mediately pulled out again. Then it was seen
that a twenty dollar greenback was found
sticking through the seam. Tearing open the
bustle the young women discovered a lot of
bank notes and gold and silver coins of all
denominations. The pile when counted up
made nine thousand dollars in cold cash. It
has long been a mystery what Miss Schutt did
with her earnings and this explained it. She
left no will, so the money was turned over to
her sister, who, in turn rewarded the Misses
Bennett for their discovery. The bustle will
probably go down to future generations as an
heirloom.—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Goodness is better than knowledge.
	It is the great at whom envy shoots her darts.
	Men's words to women are much more kind
when written than when they are uttered
	A man who puts His life in peril unselfishly,
and in a just cause, is entitled to the admira-
tion of all men.
	Faith is a humble, self-denying grace; it
makes the Christian nothing in himself, and all
in God.—R. Leighton.
	A tender conscience is an inestimable bless-
ing: that is, a conscience not only quick to
discern what is evil, but instantly to shun it,
as the eyelid closes itself against the mote.
	The culture of flowers, is one of the few
pleasures that improves alike the mind and
the heart, and makes every true lover of those
beautiful creations of infinite love, wiser
purer, and nobler.—J. Vick.
	Memory, like books that remain for a long
time shut up in the dust, needs to be opened
from time to time; it is necessary, so to speak,
to open its leaves, that it may be ready in time
of need.—Seneca.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MYSTIC BED.

The chamber is low and dark and deep,
here many a one goeth down to sleep;
And the pilot who openeth the entrance door,
Closeth it never to open more;
And the occupant drest in a robe of white,
Looketh ne'er again on themoming light.

The bed is so narrow and hard and cold,
The pillow is covered with damp and mold;
And frozen mist in the clear starlight,
Are the sheets so thin and strangely white,
 And the counterpane rests, with a heavy fold,
On the sleeper there, so still and cold.

No window to let in the sweet moonlight,
To shine on the face so calm and white,
Or nestle like pearls, in the golden hair,
Where lieth a rose all withered there.
Not even the fragrant breath of the flowers
Can enter therein on the morning hours.

And down upon that mysterious bed,
Sometime I shall lay my weary head.
Whose gentle hand in the bright summer hours,
Will gather for me sweet beautiful flowers?
What loving friend will hallow my rest,
And place the white rose upon my breast?

		ADA STANLEY.


HAST THOU BEEN TEMPED?

Hast thou been tenped so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Hast fought the tempter well, and know,
His language sweet to overthrow;
	Was it thy will or circumstance
	That checked his pitiless advance?

Hast thou been tompted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Hast thou been strong where he was weak?
Mayhap thine armor yet may break
	Where his is firm and show thee where
	Corruptness festers unaware.

Hast thou been tempted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Or hath thy happy lot insured
The safety, wherein he allured,
	Would ne'er have known the want that drives
	To sin, to shame, to prison gyves?

Hast thou been tempted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Thank God thou still art pure, but lend
Thy stronger hand in kindness, friend;
	Crush not the fallen with disdain,
	But help him back to hope again.

		E. W. HULL.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Dear Sister Harrison: We the ladies of the
Relief Society of Eureka, and other friends,
have met in your home this evening to con-
gratulate you on your returning health and
strength. We are pleased to know that you
are able to be around again, and we hope
under the blessing of God, that you will con-
tinue to improve in bodily strength until you
are fully recovered from the severe sickness
under which you have suffered so long. You
have been brought back, so to speak, almost
from the gates of death, and we are proud to
see, and to know that our kind Heavenly
Father has been so merciful to you in sparing
your life to see more days, and to give you
another opportunity to be a help and mother
to your children and to be a useful, active
member in the Relief Society in this part of
our Father's vineyard.
	We also wish to extend to you, and the
members of your family, our heart-felt sym-
pathies for the great bereavement you, in the
providence of God, have been called upon to
sustain of late in the loss of your beloved hus-
band and father, Brother Harrison.
	We feel that such a sad occurrence was one


of the greatest misfortunes that could have be-
fallen you in this life, and that you alone feel
the loss of your dear companion with greater
sorrow than we can.
	We therefore pray that God, our Father,
may give you His holy spirit to comfort you
in your day of sorrow and bereavement.
	May you have faith in His promises,and be as-
sured that He has provided ways and means
by which you shall have the presence and
companionship of your dear ones again.
	In conclusion, Sister Harrison let me say, in
the name of the ladies of the Relief Society
and other friends that we wish to present you
this small token of our respect, as one of the
members of the Relief Society, and also as a
memorial of our everlasting friendship and as
a birthday present.
	We hope that in the future when you look
upon this memento* it will bring to your
mind those who respect and sincerely sym-
pathize with you under your present circum-
stances. We also wish you many happy re-
turns of your birthday.—C. B. N.
			E. LIZZIE GILLESPIE, PRES.
			MARY KEATON, SEC.
	*The ladies presented Sister Harrison with
a haudsome and valuable present.


[Column 1]

A UTAH GIRL IN LONDON.

	London, May 3, 1891
DEAR MARY:
	We came to London after two weeks stay
in Southport. * I thought we should only
stay here a week, or ten days, but we have
decided to stay two weeks if all is well, so I
don't have to rush about sight-seeing all the
time although I have been quite busy going
about since I came,and have seen considerable.
* * * The scenery is grand coming from
Southport to London, the Derbyshire hills
especially. The castles and halls and churches
were all ivy-covered and the green fields and
flower gardens were just like what we read of
in books. We passed young ladies playing
tennis and croquet. Papa's Aunt met us at
the station and we drove direct to our apart-
ments.
	The next day we went over Westminister
bridge and passed the Houses of Parliament.
Then we went into Westministor Abbey and
saw the tombs of Milton, John Dryden,
Longfellow, Hastings, Wardsworth and many
more great men, bnt these are all I can
remember. In the afternoon we went to St.
Paul's Cathedral to see the place. We saw
the Lord Mayor of London and ever so many
more great people, but I think they all look
ordinary and are not as refined looking
as some of the middle class people.
	The next day we went to the Crystal Palace
and saw so many things I can hardly
remember them all. In this place they have
an imitation tomb of the Black Prince, I
guess yon have read about him, and there
were busts of most of the great men of every
nation, and statues of a large number of
great people. In the gallery there were
beautiful pictures of all schools and all nations.
In the aquarium were fish of all kinds. They
have courts to represent the architecture of
olden times; and a tropical region of tropical
plants and birds. In the evening pa, ma, and
I went to see a grand burlesque and variety
play; it was splendid; a man in the play had
some trained dogs, and two of them had a
boxing-glove fight; they were getting angry
over it, so the man had to separate them;
everybody roared with laughter at the fun.
	I suppose you went somewhere on May-day;
I went to one of the most stylish shops in
London and bought me a dress; wherever you
buy a dress in England you can have it made
right at the shop; the dressmaking and be-
longings costs three guineas and a half.

[Column 2]

	May 5th:—Day before yesterday we went
to the Zoological gardens to see the animals.
They  have every kind of animal there from
the white Polar Bear to the crocodiles and
snakes of South America. Mabel and Alfred
had a ride on the elephant. The next day
that is yesterday, we went to Kew Gardens,
they are exquisitely lovely. In them a Queen
used to live, the Lake and swans, the ivy-
covered tower and flowers and garden make
a perfect picture. There are two or three
museums and half a dozen conservatories of
flowers and plants. * *

	May 12. * * It will not be long now be-
fore you think of going up the cañon; the time
seems to slip by: it does not seem possible
that it will soon be June and that we have
been away from home six weeks. Pa says if we
wish to we might stay six months after the
time of his mission is up, and travel on the
continent. I should like it but of course we
cannot decide one year and a half before the
time. Anything might happen in that time.
If we should stay however it would be two
years from this summer before we should come
home. *
	We have had a continual round of sight-seeing
since we left Southport; have been in London
two weeks now,but intend to start for Hastings
a sea-side place tomorrow. This afternoon we
are going to the Royal Naval Exhibition or
else to the German. Here in London we go
by under-ground or elevated railways instead
of street-cars; they only have street-cars on
the outskirts of the City. *
	One day last week we went to the tower of
London, it is a great gloomy place and looks
as if murders had been committed there. We
stood on the place which is supposed to be the
scene of the murder of the boys Edward V.
and his brother the Duke of York, and stood
on the piece of granite underneath which are
the graves of many great people put into one
upon which the scaffold was put. The heads
of Queen Anna Boleyn, Margaret
Countess of Salisbury, Queen Katherine
Howard, Jane Grey, Robert Devereaux; Earl
of Essex, and Lord Hastings were cut off here.
We saw the block on which were two or three
axe-cuts where the axe had come down after
chopping off their heads, also saw the axe and
the executioner's mask which was horribly ugly.
When Lady Jane Grey was a prisoner in one
part of the Tower, she saw her husband led
forth to be executed on the Tower Green in
front of her window, and saw his headless body
brought to the Chapel, a little away from
Tower Green, "in a carre," while the scaffold
was being prepared for her own death on the
green in front, which took place on the same
day, Monday 12th, Feb. 1554. Wasn't it
horrible?
	Give my love to Josie, and I am going to
write to her when I get her address.
	With love to all the family and yourself
also the boys and girls.
		LIB.


“The announcement of the closing of the
Riggs House, which has been for fifteen years
the headquarters of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, brings a sense of loss to
every one connected with the movement
throughout the nation. Mr. and Mrs. Spofford
have been generous and amiable hosts, and
warm and sympathizing friends, and we can
but hope that they will establish another
hostelry from which the encroachments, of
business will not push them, for we should
hardly know how to have a Washington
Convention without them, as a rallying point.
But next time it must be called the Spofford
House.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts; No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1891.


BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June first is the anniversary of the birth of
Brigham Young who was born in the year 1801,
and who was for many long years the President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and a wise and judicious leader of the
people when they were driven from their homes
and possessions. He has been designated by a
gifted writer (Edward W. Tullidge) as the
modern Moses, and certainly the Lord was with
him and inspired him in a miraculous manner in
many times and places. This people have great
reason to cherish his memory and teach the
children of Zion to honor the man and the day.
"Honor to whom honor is due" so say the
Scriptures and surely honor is due to this great
and good man. It is a beautiful custom to ob-
serve the day as a holiday for the little people,
that it may be more effectually impressed upon
their minds, and the Associations of young men,
who were organized by his direction for mutual
improvement have done well in choosing his
birthday as a proper time to hold their annual
conference, and especially if on that day, the
cultivation of music is to be made a principal
feature. It is well-known that Brigham Young
took special delight in the cultivation of musical
talent both vocal and instrumental and gave every
encouragement possible in that direction even in
the days of adversity among the people. He was
richly endowed in this respect himself, possess-
ing a mellow, musical voice and a correct ear for
tune, harmony and time; and delicate apprecia-
tion of this talent and gift in others. In the
grand Temples that have been, and are to be
erected, it will be an essential matter to have
hundreds and thousands of harmonious voices
tuned to the praise of the Creator, as well as those
who can play upon instruments, in order to give
the most eloquent and glorious expression to the
human soul in its adoration of the Deity.
	In all the higher attainments of excellence the
Latter-day Saints should strive to excel, and the
youth of Zion born and reared here, have blessed
opportunities for cultivation, and it is expected
that they will surpass the world in knowledge,
because they are entitled through obedience to
the Gospel, to the Holy Spirit which leads into all
truth. But these things are not obtained without
diligence and application.
	Brigham Young's teachings were all calculated
to inspire in the mind a tendency to advancement
and progress in every department of life both
private and public. His example in regard to
methbd, promptitude and economy, is worthy of
imitation, and it would be well for the youth of
Zion to follow the course so often marked out by
him in his sermons and instructions to the people,
and especially in referrence to home productions
and home manufactures, and seek to build up
home interests and thereby build up Zion.


Y. M. M. I. A.

	A general conference of the Young Men’s
Mutual Improvement Associations opened Sun-
day May 31st, in the Tabernacle in this City;
which was well filled in the morning and crowded
in the afternoon and evening. The excellent sing-
ing was a pleasing feature of the day and added
much to the impressive exercises.
	Discourses were delivered during the morning
by Elder Charles W. Penrose and President
Angus M. Cannon, and an essay by Elder Willard
Young on the subject of Education. Some re-
ports concerning the work of the Associations
were given by the respective superintendents and
Elder Milton H. Hardy gave a summary of his
mission among the organizations in the twenty
stakes he had visited. During the morning
Heber H. Goddard rendered a solo, and the Glee
Club gave the selection “Comrades in Arms.”
	In the afternoon meeting Elder Benjamin Cluff,
of Provo delivered a lecture on Self-culture. A
communication from Pres. Jos. F. Smith ad-
dressed to Pres. W. Woodruff was read by Elder
Junies F, Wells, it contained the sentiments of
the writer on the present condition of the young
men of Zion and their future prospects, and em-
bodied many useful lessons.
	Pres. Wilford Woodruff occupied a short time
in addressing the young men and referred to the
Primary, the Sabbath Schools and the Mutual
Improvement Associations as preparatory in
qualifying the rising generation for their labors
in time and in eternity. Exhorted all to diligence
and faithfulness that were engaged in this work
and besought them to labor while the day lasts.
	Apostle H. J. Grant made some timely remarks
upon the necessity of a testimony of the truth
of the existence of the Creator and of Jesus the
Savior of the world.
	At the evening session Angus T. Wright of
Ogden gave a lecture upon “The Corner Stone of
Character,” Integrity; which was very suggestive
 nd Apostle Moses Thatcher delivered a stirring
address on the “Mission and Opportunities of the
Y. M. M. I. A.” He exhorted the young men to
labor for others as well as to seek to improve
themselves, to imitate the example of the Savior
in good works, to obtain a knowledge of God and
of His Son Jesus Christ whom to know is eternal
life, urged the young men to follow the golden
rule, “To do unto others as you would wish them
to do unto you;” to search out those that were
going astray, that were wanderers in by and for-
bidden paths, and seek to lead them back into
safe ways, not to neglect opportunities of doing
good, cautioned the young men to choose wisely
upon the political subject, admonished them to
seek wisdom like unto Solomon, to study civil
government and the histories of nations; but first
to make Jesus the Rock of their salvation; and
remember that true grateness was only to be
achieved through meekness. Reports from
several stakes were made, and much was said
about the evil influences now being brought to
bear upon the young men of this city, and the
necessity of home-missionary work right here.
The Conference adjourned to June 1st and the
choir sang the Motette “God of Israel,” benedic-
tion by Elder B. H. Roberts.


[Column 1]

MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Thursday morning May 21st, in company
with Mrs. Jane S. Richards we started for Payson
on an early train to attend the annual meeting
and Fair to be held by the Relief Society at that
place; the green fields and blooming fruit trees
along the route were a pleasant picture and rest-
ful alike to the eyes and mind. At Provo we
were joined by Pres. Mary John of the R. S. of
Utah Stake and her First Counselor, Mrs.

[Column 2]

Marilla Daniels a very dear friend of ours to
whom we were fondly attached long ago, away
back in Nauvoo. At the Payson depot we were
met by Mrs. Millie Starke,Pres, of the W. S. A.
of Payson, who informed us that we would both
be expected to speak to the W. S. A. in the
evening. The carriage drove up to the residence
of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas who are widely known
for their generous hospitality. The President of
the Society Mrs. B. J. Simons and others came
with pleasant greetings and welcome, and we
chatted until dinner was announced, and an
elaborate dinner it was. At 2 p. m. we all repaired
to the meeting bouse, where quite a surprise
awaited us in the exhibition of woman's handi-
work. Surely the ladies of Payson Relief Society
are both ingenious and industrious. The meeting
house is quite a large one with a very high pulpit
or stand, and gallery around the three sides very
like the orthodox churches of New England.
The whole interior of the building was decorated
with home needle work such as women do, paint
ing, embroidery etc. A committee of ladies had
charge of the affair whose names we did not learn,
but they had arranged everything very creditably
and the effect was quite striking as well as unex-
pected. It is scarcely possible to mention all, but
the fine old-fashioned patch work, in lilies, tulips,
and rose chains and the exquisite piecing and
quilting deserve at least a passing notice; some
of these quilts we were told had been made by
very old ladies. Of course the painting and em-
broidery was done by younger women and girls,
and here it may not be amiss to say, there are a
great number of fine healthy looking young wo-
men and girls in Payson, as well as elderly ones;
in fact that place is not behind other towns in
Utah in this respect, though of course it is not in
good taste to make comparisons on this subject.
	The silk work on exhibition was especially in-
teresting it being entirely a home production; a
handsome shawl made from the silk raised there
by one of the elderly sisters Grace Wignall is
handsome enough to grace the shoulders of any
lady in the land. It is certainly desirable that
articles of the home-raised silk should be pre-
pared for Utah's exhibit in the World's Fair.
	There was a miniature steamer on the stand
made by one of the boys there, that was really a
work of art, and drew out a great deal of admira-
tion especially from Mrs. Jane S. Richards, who
had not very long since seen a Steamer launched
from San Francisco Bay out on the Pacific ocean.
Such work should have every possible encourage-
ment, in order that the young people may exce-
in these things and not lack appreciation. There
were vases of lovely natural flowers in all avail-
able places and altogether the house was hand-
somely decorated.
	Mrs. B. J. Simons the President of the Society
for twenty-three years, presided at the meeting,
ably assisted by her Counselors Agnes Douglas
and Clarissa Moore. The minutes of the last
annual meeting and reports were read, and Presi-
dent Simons made a few remarks and introduced
Mrs Richards, First Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who addressed the meeting upon subjects
connected with the general work of the Relief
Society and gave much valuable instruc-
tion.
	The other speakers followed in a similar strain
including Mrs. John, Mrs. Daniels and the writer,
and Bishop Jos. Tanner occupied a few moments,
expressed his good feeling and harmony with the
Society and testified to the good spirit of the
meeting.
	Another surprise awaited the visitors, in the.
vestry where tables were spread with all the
luxuries of the season. Bishop Tanner at lhe
head of the table and a few other brethren near
him, but the tables were filled with members of
the Relief Society, waited upon by young ladies
mostly, though we noticed the committee who


had charge of the whole proceedings were also
very busy. The time passed very swiftly in
pleasant conversation and we found on rising from
the table it was nearly the hour for the W. S. A.
to commence their exercises.
	The Payson band was present in full force in
the evening and rendered stirring selections of
patriotic music. The members of the Association
wore the yellow ribbon badge, and all seemed
quite energetic in the good cause. Some young
ladies gave selections on the organ (instrumental)
one of them we were told was the Presbyterian
school teacher at that place.
	The meeting house was well filled quite as many
gentlemen as ladies it seemed, and it is to be
hoped more interest will be awakened on the sub-
ject of equal rights. Mrs. Richards gave some of
our experience in Washington during the sessions
of the National Council and the N. A. W. S. A. Con-
vention this last winter. She also urged upon
the ladies the need of taking suffrage literature
not only to inform themselves upon the subject,
but to keep posted in regard to what is being
done by the women of the world in the cause of
reform. Mrs. Daniels of Provo acted as chaplain
opening and closing with prayer, the Bishop
made a few remarks and expressed his sympathy
with the cause. The music was specially good
and the Association certainly gives hopeful signs
of progress in the right direction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sisters Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jane Cannon and
Louie Felt are visiting Bear Lake Stake to attend
the Conferences of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations, and in the interest of the or-
ganizations generally.
	Sisters Elizabeth Howard and Lillie Freeze are
traveling through Wasatch Stake attending the
Conferences of the Relief Society and Primary
Associations and also visiting the different settle-
ments in the interest of the organizations.
	The Primary Associations will hold their Con-
ference the following day, Saturday June 20th, in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall as usual. Each
Association in the county should come forward
with as many of the children as is practicable to
bring; city wards can certainly make a good
numerical showing, and with the facilities now
afforded adjacent country wards can have no ex-
cuse for non-attendance. The Hall should be
filled with the children, their parents and friends.
	The Executive Committee of the Woman's
National Council met in Indianapolis Ind., on
Saturday May 30th, as per previous appointment,
and according to the telegraphic reports tran-
sacted such business as had been resolved upon
at the business sessions held in Washington D.
C., at the close of the sessions of the Council in
February last. One of the items however not
brought before the Council at that time, was a
resolution to defray the expense of entertaining
delegates to the International Council which is
expected to convene in Chicago in 1893.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The difficulty in the Board of Lady Managers

[Column 2]

of the World's Fair between Mrs. Palmer, the
Executive Committee and Miss Phebe Counsins,
seems to grow more and more complicated, and
to hinder very much the progress of the work
necessary to be accomplished or at least fairly
begun at an early date; it is a great pity that this
little difference could not have been amicably
arranged between the two ladies themselves or by
some sort of friendly arbitration and not cause
so much ill-feeling and consequent delay in the
movement, that is to be a world-wide enterprise
and at all events should not be hampered by petty
trifles, or controversies over details.
	There will be a children's Fair of the Primary
Associations of this County held in the Social
Hall in this city. commencing about June 15th,
under the auspices of President Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. It is to be hoped the people will put
forth their best efforts to make a good showing
of handiwork of both boys and girls. A few
prizes will be awarded; one for the best bread
made by a little girl,one for the best plain sewing,
also for best darning; and for the best essay
written by either boy or girl under fifteen
years of age a handsome book will be given.
One or two persons have offered to assist with
the prizes, and if there are others who feel to aid
in this good cause they can have the opportunity
now, and such donations will be gratefully re-
ceived by those who have charge of the affair.
The various associations throughout the county
should be represented, that it may be a success
in itself and a credit to all interested in the culti-
vation energy and skilled industry of the children
of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an elocutionist and
teacher of the Delsarte system of physical train-
ing, gave an entertainment in the theatre on Mon-
day evening May 25, for the benefit of her pupils,
and that the public might know of her work here
during the past few months, in which she has
been an active, energetic and industrious teacher.
She has not given herself proper rest and rec-
reation because of her ambition to build up a repu-
tation as a teacher in this city and Territory. She
has brought forward a number of young pupils
who have improved wonderfully under her train-
ing and there is no doubt as to her capabilities as
a teacher of elocution. Mrs. Boyden gave several
selections herself from standard authors, Jean
Ingelow, George Elliot, and Shakespeare, and
showed remarkable versatility of acting. A short
play was given by some of her pupils and fine
instrumental music by Miss Grace Williams of
Boston; Miss Viola Pratt's singing added greatly
to the entertainment, she has a magnificent voice,
fine expression, and always sings with spirit and
feeling.


[Column 1]

MISS WILLARD'S DEFENSE.

	The orthodox clergy of the country have un-
dertaken to censure Miss Frances E. Willard for
presiding at the Woman's National Council over
so many, or keeping company with so many
heterodox women; as they term Unitarians and
Universalists and unbelievers generally. Miss
Willard has made an able defense against their
attacks, and one wonders in reading, how they
are going to get around the arguments she brings
forward, and still consider themselves followers
and disciples of the Savior.
	We quote from Miss Willard's editorial in the
Union Signal the organ of the W. C. T. U. of
which she is the able President.
	The title of the editorial is,
THE MORE EXCELLENT WAY.
	"There are two ways in which the Christian
disciple; can influence his or her time; one is ex-
clusive, the other inclusive; one is provincial, the

[Column 2]

other cosmopolitan; one is the way of separatism,
the other of neighborliness. Each individual is
called upon to choose, and upon the nature of
that choice depends the character of one's career.
Strangely enough there is wide difference of
opinion among devoted disciples of our Lord as
to what was His method of meeting the world.
By precept and practice Christ was a cosmo-
politan; He taught, in the Temple and in the
synagogues of a faith He had come to supersede;
He sat at meat in the homes of rulers, whose
government He came to overthrow; He partici-
pated in great feasts among the rich; He received
publicans and sinners; He made Himself the
friend and brother of each and all. His manner
of life was in the most pointed antithesis to that
of John the Baptist, who came neither eating nor
drinking, and He had to bear the monstrous in-
justice of their criticism who said, "This man is
a glutton and a wine-bibber, a friend of publicans
and sinners."
	"Now look at the Apostle Paul. What does he
say in the ninth chapter of 1 Corinthians: (new
version.)
	"To the jews I become as a Jew that I might
gain Jews; to them that are under the law, as
under the law, not being myself under the law,
that I might gain them that are under the law;
to them that are without law, as without law, not
being without law to God, but under law to Christ,
that I might gain them that are without law. To
the weak I became weak, that I might gain the
weak; I am become all things to all men, that I
may by all means save some. And I do all things
for the Gospel's sake that I may be a joint partaker
thereof."
	Miss Willard's method of Gospel work is com-
pared with that of Mr. Moody by way of illustration
he believed it wrong to speak on the same plat-
form with any one unorthodox and because Miss
Willard thought differently he quoted to her the
passage in the second Epistle of John which
reads, "If there come any unto you and bring not
this doctrine (of Christ) receive him not into your 
house, neither bid him God speed. For he that
biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil
deeds;" and she writing in her journal, "Brother
Moody's Scripure interpretations concerning re-
ligious toleration are too literal for me; the jacket
is too strait; I cannot wear it."
	The Signal, however, states that in the fourteen
years that have elapsed since this utterance "Mr.
Moody has materially modified and broadened
his spirit of toleration."
	After dwelling at some length upon Miss
Willard's position and bringing forward demon-
strative proof of what she has accomplished in
her Christian work, the Signal states that the pur-
pose had been to pass the matter over in silence,
but the continued and unfair statements made,
seemed to call for a replay," through their National
organ. It then sums up the Woman's Council in
paragraphs, First, Second, Third and Fourth.
Here is a part of the first,
	"First, That the Woman's Council is a great
educational, philanthropic and reformatory or-
ganization, like the Social Seience Association,
the Charities and Corrections society, and the
National Educational Association. It is perfectly
colorless in respect of creed. There are women
in it of all faiths and of no faith; Jews, Catho-
lics, Protestants, Spiritualists, Agnostics; even
as there are men of equally varied belief in all
the societies we have named as being analogous
in structure to the Woman's Council. But no
Bishop or D. D. of any church whatever would
be criticised by Christian people for participating
in, or for presiding over the Social Science As-
sociation, the National Educational Covention or
the Society of Charities and Corrections. Nay,
he would be applauded for so doing as an illustra-
tion of Christianity in action.  But this is wo-
man's testing time: she is the prima donna of the


[Column 1]

world's great stage, and all the opera glasses are
leveled at her to see just how she fills her part.
Happier days are ahead, when she will have be-
come a "specimen" duly analyzed and classified,
so that humanity can turn its attention to other
parts of the great field. When good William
Blackstone recently convened in Clark street M.
E. church, Chicago, a group of D. D.'s and
Jewish Rabbis, and several of the latter decried
Christianity as thoroughly as ever Robert G.
Ingersoll was left to do, it was passed over be-
cause Mr. Blackstone belongs to the classified
sex, the center of whose "sphere" is everywhere
and its circumference nowhere."
	After much more careful and comprehensive
reasoning the fourth paragraph of her reply
winds up the matter thusly,
	Fourth, It is claimed that there was disturbance
in the meetings. This is not true. The utmost
quiet and decorum prevailed throughout the eight
sessions and over eighty addresses, save on one
evening when Mrs. Mary Lease, of Kansas, a
gifted and most earnest woman, "the prophet of
and evil time," as Mary Lathrop aptly termed her,
spoke on political conditions in her state. She
had already addressed the Council briefly once, 
to excellent acceptance, but on her second ap-
pearance she called ex-Senator J. J. Ingalls "a
consummate hypocrite," whereupon Republicans
present hissed, and Miss Willard's gavel fell
with clear-cut emphasis, as she said, "There must
be no personalities either on or off the platform."
Mrs. Lease also said that "evil-doers would be
turned into hell," wherein she claimed to have
Scripture on her side!
	"Thus much for the Council, which was the
largest, most representative and most influential
gathering of women the world has thus far seen,
and whose spirit was one of so much mutual
consideration and good will; indeed, was so full
of genuine spiritual power and tenderness that
from first to last, among one hundred delegates
from sixty totally distinct soeieties, there was not
an unkind word, but the song they sang in
pleasantry after choosing their officers, was the
keynote to their official conflusions:"
		"So say we, all of us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN,

HELD AT WASHINGTON, D. C.,
FEBRUARY 22-25, 1891.

	Before September 1st, 1891, it is hoped that
this volume of about three hundred pages (con-
taining the report of the eight public, and three
business sessions of the Council, also the por-
traits of the retiring and the in-coming Board of
Officers), will be ready for sale.
	It is desirable that the Officers of the Council
know as soon as possible how large an edition of
this permanent report it will be necessary to
issue.
	Subscriptions should be forwarded at once to
the Corresponding secretary, price $1.00.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
			748 N. 19th Street, Philadelphia.


R. S. REPORT.

	THURBER, UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our regular annual meeting was held at
the meeting House Jan. 1, 1891. Pres. Sarah
G. Meeks presiding, after the usual exercises
including reading of minutes, financial report
of the past year and so on was approved,
Bishop Wm. Meeks spoke, encouraging the
sisters in their labors thought they had done
well under the circumstances, all felt well,


determined to do better in the future than in
the past. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
closed by singing, "Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing," benediction by Bishop Wm. Meeks.
			SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
			BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. REPORTS.

SEVIER, UTAH CO.

EDITOR ERPONENT:

	The W. S. A. of Sevier County held their
annual meeting in Richfield, May 2nd 1891,
when the following officers were elected; Pres.
Celia E. Bean; First Vice Pres. Annie
Lauritzen; Second Vice Pres. Eva M. Borg-
quist; Secretary and Treasurer, Flora D. Bean,
Cor. Sec'y. Alice A. Hatch. Executive Com-
mittee, Aggie Gardner, Chairman; Hannah
Baker, Ella Thurber, Sarah Holman, Annie
C. Morrison; with fifteen members enrolled.
	After executing the business of the meeting,
Flora D. Bean by request of the President,
favored the meeting with an organ solo. en-
titled "Fire Bell March. This was followed
by a debate, the subject being,
	Resolved that woman should have the fran-
chise. Affirmed by Annie C. Morrison. Nega-
tived by Celia E. Beau. Considerable en-
thusiasm was manifested on both sides, but the
judges decided that the Affirmative gained
the victory.
	During the past year our progress has been
greatly retarded by our President being absent
and a great amount of indifference in relation
to this subject, manifested by our ladies. Now,
that we are fully organized, we trust that by
diligence and perseverance, we may be able to
accomplish a great amount of good.
		CELIA E. BAEN, Pres.
		ALICE A. HATCH, Cor. Sec.
	Richfield, May 16, 1891.

WEBER CO.
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Weber
Co. held an interesting meeting in the Third
Ward Assembly Hall on Friday afternoon,
May 15th.
	Besides a good attendance of members
residents in Ogden City, some settlements in
the Country were well represented. The
enrollment list which was read by the secretary
showed a large increase of membership over
last year,
	The President Mrs. E. Y. Stanford regreted,
that owing to sickness in her family, our
Delegate of the Woman's Suffrage Association
recently held in Washington, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards could not be present to report the
services she had rendered on that mission.
	A very entertaining and instructive pro-
gramme was then rendered consisting of a
select reading by Vice President Mrs. C.
Driver, a quartette by Messrs. E. T. Wooley,
H. J. Sears, R. Williams, and H. Anderson,
Miss Lucretia West playing the accompani-
ment, speeches from Messrs Thomas Wallace
and Joseph Stanford. The first speaker in an
interesting and instructive manner refered to
the lives of many prominent women whom
history was proud of because of the many
distinguished positions they had occupied and
of the public good they had rendered.
	The second speaker thought that while it
was but just to concede that man should lead
he being created first, that it was the right of
woman to follow close after in companionable
help, and dwelt largely upon woman's mental
endowments and capability exhibiting her fit-
ness to travel side by side with man in all his
walks and pursuits and enjoy in common all
the rights and privileges of intellectual life.
He did not feel as some men do, that in extend-
ing privilges to women leading to political,

[Column 2]

social, literary, scientific, and professional
preferment and usefulness, that it would
detract from the comforts of home and the
blessings of offspring. It is woman's nature and
destiny to inherit the elements of love, paternal
affection and the desire for home duty, princi-
ples which a true noble woman would not
neglect under any conditions to cultivate, any
more than the honorable husband and father
although he might be called to contribute of
his time, talents and influence for the benefit of
his state or nation.
	Appropriate remarks from the President
closed a meeting of much interest and enjoy-
ment.
	The meeting adjourned for three months.
			MARIAN S. WILCOX, Sec.

SALT LAKE CO.
	Minutes of the meeting of the W. S. A. of 
Salt Lake Co., held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 19th 1891. Pres. E.
Howard in the chair. Prayer by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane.
	Dr. Elvira S. Barney was appointed to act
as Sec. pro tem. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read from the compiled
laws of Utah, page 342. Subject, Distribu-
tion of property by Will, and Succession.
	Pres. Howard said that the women of Wyo-
ming had the right of suffrage, and when she
visited there advised them to be united in
voting. But she would also advise that women
here and everywhere study the subject of
politics and learn the position of both Demo-
cratic and Republican parties before express-
ing a desire to unite with either.
	S. M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n., said
it was proper to make selections from the
Revised Laws of Utah and make a study of
them in our meetings, and thus educate our-
selves pertaining to the laws of our own Terri-
tory. Also thought it would be well to have
a library of our own to select from. Said
many felt the need of help in their homes.
Thought the establishment of an industrial
school would qualify girls for useful labor, but
it required a movement instead of talk only.
Suggested that the Association make a study
of the great political questions of national in-
terests that were now being agitated.
	Emily S. Richards, said she would like to
study up the political subjects and know more
about them before she could intelligently act.
Said Miss Anthony advised the women to have
some hobby as an incentive to action, and if
they had not one, to go and buy one. She re-
ferred to the Day Nursery that she had as a
hobby if she might call it so; and that the
full capacity of it was nineteen, but they never
had less than ten children and that homes were
always provided for them, and that she had a
long list of names of those that were willing to
furnish homes for the unfortunate. The
ladies of this Territory had been organized
for many years, and the women of the world
were being organized in working classes; she
thought that if there could be something done
perhaps in a different way from what we had
done. Our old ladies have been provided for
in the homes of their own kindred but our
population was increasing and there would be
a greater demand and if they could be located
where they could feel it was home, and have
society it would be a happy condition for them.
	Elizabeth Mc'Farlane spoke upon the subject
of taking care of the young girls and watching
over them; that there was a great power with
some men to influence them to go astray, and
all classes of men from the world had come
into our midst.
	Margaret Mitchell said she could not define
her position on the political question untill she
had made the subject of parties a study. Said


in the United States 30,000,000 women are
disfranchised; and that the government had
been in the hands of the few and the people
were ruled by the minority.
	Lillie Freeze urged upon the ladies to sub-
scribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT as it was
the only organ the Suffrage Associations had to
publish for them, and keep them posted on
these questions and it ought to be better sus-
tained.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said the subject of wills
had been a leading thought with her, and ad-
vised that the heads of every family should
have in writing a clear statement of the dis-
position of their effects in case they should be
taken away by death, which would save litiga-
tion, and that each member of a family should
be provided for, and not left to suffer at the
expense of another's luxury. She had in her
experience in life known of some sad condi-
tions through neglect of these things, said wo-
men could use their influence in this direction.
Different phases were presenting themselves in
the world's history, and in order to be equal to
and keep pace with these conditions it required
careful study, and great watchfulness.
	Emma Finch, the Cor. Sec. tendered her
resignation on account of absence from the
city.
	The meeting was adjourned until the third
Tuesday in the following month at the same
time and place.
		DR. E. S. BARNEY, Sec., pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S PROGRESS IN HIGHER
EDUCATION. 

BY HELEN L. WEBSTER.

	After giving a detailed account of the early
struggles of women to obtain even the rudi-
ments of education, the speaker said, "It took
two hundred and fifty years for New England
to realize that women have need of and are
capable of the highest development of mind."
The agitation of the subject of higher educa
tion, however, at last led to the formation of
the Boston High School. Two hundred and
eighty-six girls presented themselves as candi-
dates for admission as against ninety boys. The
authorities, however, were so amazed at the
eagerness of the girls to take up the higher
branches of learning, they closed the school
after it had been in existence eighteen months.
Said Miss Webster: "The eloquent absurdity
of this failure, and the increasing demands of
women worked hand in hand, and a quarter
of a century later Boston had a High School
for girls; another quarter of a century passed
and a Latin school was established to fit girls
for College. To fit girls for college! This clause
speaks the last and best words that we have
to say concerning the opportunities which have
been won for woman's higher education.
	"It reminds us of the opening of Vassar in
'65, of Smith and Wellesley in '75, of Bryn
Mawr in '85, of Barnard in '89, it reminds us
of the many colleges all over the land—Oberlin
heading the list—which have extended their
privileges to women.
	"In the West especially has the higher edu-
cation of women been well supported, both by
the governments of the separate States, and
by institutions that have been founded under
the auspices of private individuals, though
still in certain localities the old fight has to be
fought over again.
	"The spirit of the times says: 'Women need
equal culture of mind and heart with men,'
and the fact answers nearly to the spirit in the
Western States, where out of 212 institutions
165 are co educational; some of these were
founded originally for women, but have after-
wards extended their privileges on equal terms
to men.

[Column 2]

	"In the Southern States opportunities are
opening and standards are becoming higher,
The Woman's College of Baltimore, the co-
educational universities — Tulane in New
Orleans, Columbian in Washington, and the
Universities of Texas and Mississippi are the
hopeful signs of progress in the South. The
recent news that women are to be admitted to
the Johns Hopkins Medical School as soon as
its doors shall be opened sends a thrill of re-
joicing throughout the length and breadth of
our land. May the day not be far distant
when its academic department shall act upon
the same just principle!
	"Thus far we have spoken of woman's pro-
gress in education in America. In Germany
a book appears whose very existence is a proof
of progress—Helene Lange's 'Higher Educa-
tion of Women in Europe." Herein the
history of the higher education of women in
each of the countries of Europe is passed in
review. It begins with the movement in
England. From the opening of the Cambridge
University courses to women thirty years ago,
to their admission to the London University
examinations and the Cambridge tripos ex-
aminations in the beginning of the last decade
and finally to the founding of the Royal
Holloway College, which was opened in the
presence of the Queen of England five years
ago, the cause has advanced with strong and
steady steps.
	"Since 1866 France has made provision for
the higher education of women; one of our
own country-women, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,
was the first woman admitted to the medical
school in Paris.
	"Switzerland early opened the doors of her
universities to women, making neither reserve
nor concession on the ground of sex; Zurich
University has the honor of being the first in
this respect; then follow Geneva, Berne
Neuchatel, and finally report tells us that con-
servative Basel, has granted to one woman the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
	"Sweden follows in 1870. In 1875 Den-
mark grants to women the privilege of acquir-
ing all the degrees—except that of Doctor of
Divinity—that her only university gives.
	"Italy has from very early times permitted
women to attend the universities, both as
students and as professors. We need but call
to mind the Italian poet, musician, astronomer,
mathematician, and linguist, Elena Lucrezia
Coronaro, who received the Doctor's Degree
at the University of Padua, and the beautiful
and learned Novela d'Andrca, who sometimes
lectured in her father's stead at the University
of Bologna. The University of Bologna was
both ancient and celebrated. It was founded
in the early part of the fifth century and in
the thirteenth century its fame had become so
great that its students numbered about ten
thousand.
	"In the bloom of this brilliant period wo-
men were enrolled in the number of students
and professors; Bettisia Gozzidina, a Doctor of
Law, lectured there during the last ten years
of her life; Catalina and Novella Calderini
lectured on law a hundred years later. During
the following centuries women became re-
nowned in the various departments, including
mathematics and anatomical research. Thus
the distant past and the 'dark' Middle Ages
point their finger of reproach at the cold and
sluggish conservatism, not of phlegmatic Ger-
many alone, but of the free, enlightened, pro-
gressive America of the nineteenth century!
	"In 1875 St. Petersburg arranged university
courses for women.
	"The University of Amsterdam enrolled the
first woman student in 1880.
	"In 1882 Norway passed a law which autho-
rized admission of women to the degrees of
arts and of philosophy, and Miss Thoresen, the
first candidate, was not only allowed to enter, but

[Column 3]

was greeted by the students with an address of
welcome and congratulation.
	"Spain and Portugal have no law excluding
women from university privileges, while
Vienna and Liepzig tolerate them through the
courtesy or good nature of individual pro-
fessors, though they give them no recognition
or privilege of matriculation.
	"Do we look about us for signs of further
advance? They are at hand. Report tells us
that the new National University in Wash-
ington contemplates the admission of women
on the same conditions and with the same
privileges as men. The University of Glasgow
follows in the same path. The royal Uni-
versity of Ireland confers the degree of
Bachelor of Arts upon eleven women, and that
of Doctor of Laws upon several others. The
Universities of Montreal and Australia extend
a welcome to women students. A petition for
admittance to the University of Greece has
been signed by Greek women, and Rome be-
stirs herself in behalf of her girls.
	"Such, to-day are the facts which are the
foundation of our hope of future opportunity.
What to-day are our ideals, that are to be the
basis of future attainment.
	"One of the greatest needs of the future in
America is a higher standard of scholarship
a standard of scholarship which shall lead to
the seeking of knowledge for its own sake, for
the sake of that vision of truth which alone
can guide aright. We need, as a people, not
more ambition, but ambition more wisely di-
rected, not a greater amount of work, but a
better quality of it; not culture pursued as an
end, but as a means.
	"Among the leaders in the world of scientific
research let the woman of the future take her
place. This duty her new and larger oppor-
tunities impose upon her."
	After referring to the plan of university ex-
tension as presented by Mr. Richard S.
Moulton, of Cambridge, England, and to the
noble work of the college settlements, she
said:
	"Thus the coming years will find woman at
work at the top, at the bottom, and all the
way between. She will have her share in sup-
porting that system of education which Prof.
Huxley declares to be the only one worthy of
the name, 'that which shall create a great
educational ladder, with one end in the gutter
and the other in the university.'
	"We could not close this sketch of our
ideal future without expressing one more hope:
that the wisdom of the coming day may ad-
just things with such a perfect balance that the
scale in which woman's achievement is placed
may fall or rise according to the measure of its
worth, not according to prejudice or favor
based on the ground of sex. The past has
demanded for woman justice—not oppression;
the demand of the present and future is justice
still—not favor."


THE WIMODAUGHSIS PROPERTY.
We have made a deposit on the house and
lot numbered 1319 L. St. N. W. for Wimo-
daughsis and shall take possessson on the first
of November. The lot has been considered by
the board for some time and is very desirable
for our immediate purposes, being 29 feet front
by 164 feet deep to a 30 foot alley. The cost is
$13,000 and it is estimated that our first issue
of stock which is 25,000 would put on a hall
on the war of the present lot and pay for one
purchase. This would enable us to secure
rentals and good quarters for present purposes.
Then when we can do so we can put up a
handsome front which will be a credit to the
women of the country. An urgent appeal is
made to every one to send in their stock sub-
scriptions that the payments on the lot may be


made and improvements begun. The stock
is five dollars a share and is non-assessable and
full paid.
				E. M. GILLETT, Treasurer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


INVENTED BY WOMEN.
Without Mheural Nisa the world would
never have had Cashmere shawls.
 Yao, the wife of the fourth Emperor of
China, bears the honor of having invented spin-
ning.
	Harriet Hosmer first introduced to the
world the permanent magnet as a motive
power.	
Miss Betsey Metcalf made, in 1798, the
first straw hat ever manufactured in this
country.		
The invention of the first submarine teles-
cope was made by Sarah B. Mather, of New
York.	
The exquisite perfumery called “Atyr of
Roses” was the product of Mheural Nisa’s in-
ventive genius.
	A patent mower and reaper was invented by
Elizabeth Smith, an enterprising woman of
New Jersey.
	Si-Lang-Chi is thought by the Chineese to
have discovered silk, and is called: “The god-
dess of silk-worms.”
Pamphile was a woman of Cos and the in-
ventress of silken gauze, her fabric being
known as “woven wind.”—Chicago News.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Norway, Maine, claims to have the first
woman road surveyor.
 Jenny Lind’s memoirs have just been pub-
lished in London. 
Mrs. Frank Leslie sailed for Southampton,
May 5, on the North German Lloyd steamship
Lahn.
	Mrs. Harrison and Mrs. Palmer are said to
be interested in the movement to have a child-
ren’s department in the World’s Fair.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony addressed the New
England Woman Suffrage Association, in
Tremont Temple, Monday evening May 25.
	Hon. John D. Long presided at the
Woman Suffrage Festival in Music Hall last
Wednesday evening, from 5 to 10 p. m.
	Miss Bessie H. Thomas, of Philadelphia
recently took the first prize at the Academy of
Fine  Arts in that city. She won it over both
women and men students.
	Mrs. Elizabeth M. Yates has made a tour
of forty lectures in Vermont, in the interests
of temperance and woman suffrage. She has
everywhere delighted her audiences.
	Madame Blavatsky, the well-known theo-
sophist of London, died in that city May 9.
aged sixty years. Her body was cremated at
Working.
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is
about to leave New York and make Wash-
ington her permanent residence. She is
afflicted with a cataract which causes partial
blindness, only to be relieved by an opera-
tion.
	The only woman on record who was the
mother of a Governor, the wife of a Governor,
the sister of a Governor, the niece of a
Governor and the aunt of a Governor was
Mrs. Richard Manning of South Carolina.
	The greatest novelty in dolls has been in-
vented in Nuremberg, the great German town


for dolls and playthings. A machine in the
doll causes it to move its hand and write neat
little letters on a slate or on paper. Whole
sentences can be written, to the great amuse-
ment of children.
	The Philadelphia branch of the Association
of Collegiate Alumnae recently discussed the
subject of physical culture. In regard to op-
portunities for teachers of physical culture it
was authoritatively said that among public
schools there is a small but growing demand
for teachers with special physical training; for
higher institutions and private gymnasiums
there is a demand for skilled teachers greater
than the supply. High salaries are offered,
and the opportunity for original and success-
ful work is great.


It is the surmounting of difficulties that
makes heroes.
	A wise and good man will turn examples
of all sorts to his own advantage. The good
he will make his patterns, and strive to equal
or excel them. The bad he will by all means
avoid.—Thomas A. Kempis.
	Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles, and glowing with innocent enjoyment,
is a mirror transmitting to others the rays of
a supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
W. Irving.
	The world is a looking-glass and gives back
to every man the expression of his own face.
Frown at it and it will in turn look sourly
upon you; laugh at it and with it and it is a
jolly, kind companion; and so let all young
persons take choice.—Thackeray.


THE SADDENED HOME.
	It behooves all parents to set a good
example before the children entrusted in
their care, and to raise them up in the nurture
and admonition of the Lord. The writer is
now forty-one years old and during all those
years of her early life has not recalled one
single instance of pleasure that has not been
imbued with most bitter feelings, hence the
truthfulness of this poem deeply expressed
and felt in regard to home. It is useless to
dwell upon the disadvantage of an unpleasant
home. Suffice it to say however that children
brought up in a careful and painstaking way
will eventually make better men and women,
and therefore have unbounded respect for
father and mother and a stay in their declining
years.

How sad and how bleak, were the scenes of my childhood
How desolate and lonely, the days now long passed,
As oft I have roamed through the beautiful wildwood
To reflect upon sorrows deeply anchored and cast.

Our pleasures and comforts were ever so rarely,
The bleak winds of winter encompassed our home.
The sunshine of happiness would gleam through but
sparely
And glimmering but faintly would fade and be gone.

Our home was incumbered with sickness and anguish
Where roses had thorns that would pierce to the soul,
And blending with harshness seemed never to languish;
The memory of childhood reflects on the whole.

To only obliterate the sadness and sorrow,
From earliest childhood and youth that is gone;
To only remember is only to sorrow,
To torture the soul in remembrance of home.
Ella A. C. Gillam, A Friendly Gentile.
Eldorado, Utah.


INMEMORIAM.

Sister Christiana Christenson of Redmond, Sevier Co.


Utah, departed this life March 18th, 1891 and inasmuch
as she was a teacher, and a faithful co-ladorer in the Relief
Society we as sisters feel that, we owe to the memory of
our departed sister, that we should give expression to the
feelings of our hearts concerning some of the good works
of her life. Sister Christenson was forty-eight years of
age; she leaves a husband and seven children, five of them
to whom she was a step-mother. She was a kind, patient
wife and mother, and a true Latter day Saint, and will
be greatly missed in the family circle, as well as in the
Relief Society. She nobly filled her mission, and no
doubt has gone to that heavenly region, where there is no
sorrow and where friends never part.
	For her husband and her children we offer an earnest
prayer and extend heartfelt sympathy,and we say to them
be comforted, and prove worthy to join her in the kingdom
of God's glory.
		MATILDA PETERSON Pres. of R. S. Redmond.


MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a m. to l p. 
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED&ENLARGED. 

Mrs. M. IsaballaHorne,Prest.  Mrs. Mattie Nalsbitt-Thonias,Sup
[Column 1]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,

123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT	TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
	FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS,  COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortmenf of
		DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
		DAVID JAMES, Box 306.SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

