Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1,1891.			No. 14.


CONTENTS. 
	A Happy New Year,—Aunt Em. Some Old
Love Letters. Twilight Musings,—Lu. Auto-
biography—Elizabeth B. Pratt. A Co-operative
Scheme,—Elizabeth Dustin. Co operative House-
keeping,—Ex. National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association. Miss Anthony’s Reception-
What a Lady Does Not Do. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Year of Grace 1891. Edi-
torial Notes. The National Council of Women.
Resolution of Respect. Mother and Son,—Vina.
	POETRY:—Thoughts of the Old Year,—Lu.
Bethlehem-Town,—Eugene Field. Evanescent,
Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Memoria,—Florence
Earle Coates. The Old and New Year,—Ada
Giddings-Park. Lines,—Sarah J. Austin.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	THOUGHTS OF THE OLD YEAR.

	An old man sat in his chair of State
		His head was bowed and bare,
	Deep furrowed lines in his forehead great,
		Were traced by time and care,
	And his limbs were chilled and stiff with age,
		Life's weenes refused to flow,
	The feeble pulse of the hoary sage,
		Told the world he soon must go.
	Now around the old man's dying couch,
		Gather a motley throng,—
	Remorse and Grief, Feast, Dance and Mirth,
		Withering care and scorn.
	Low kneeling beside the monarch great,
		Are Faith and humble Prayer;
	His parting breath to receive they wait,
		And greet the son and heir,
	But ere he quits this shadowy vale,
		Time caught his  murmured sigh,
	And wrought for earth a living tale,
		That in it ne'er can die.
	But now farewell, for the old man's gone,
		His heir is standing by;
	One lingering look we'll cast behind,
		And breath one soft good-bye.
	Hopeful we welcome the New Year in,
		And as its days move on,
	We will pray that richest blessings crown,
		This year of ninety-one.
										LU.
Atchison, Kas.


BETHLEHEM-TOWN.

As I was going to Bethlehem-town
Upon the earth I cast me down
All underneath a little tree
That whispered in this wise to me;
"Oh,I shall stand on Calvary
And bear what burthen saveth thee !”

As up I fared to Bethlehem-town
I met a shepherd coming down,
And thus he quoth:  "A wondrous sight
Hath spread before my eyes this night—
An angel host most fair to see
That sung full sweetly of a tree
That shall uplift on Calvary
What burthen saveth you and me !"

And as I gat to Bethlehem-town,
Lo ! wise men came that bore a crown—
“Is there,” cried I, "in Bethlehem
A King shall wear this diadem?"
“Good sooth," they quoth, "and it s He
That shall be lifted on the tree
And freely shed on Calvary
What blood redeemeth us and thee !”


Unto a Child in Bethlehem-town
The wise men came and brought the crown;
And while the infant smiling slept
Upon their knees they fell and wept;
But, with her babe upon her knee,
Naught recked that Mother of the tree
That should uplift on Calvary
What burthen saveth all and me.

Again I walk in Bethlehem-town
And think on Him that wears the Crown—
I may not kiss his feet again
Nor worship Him as did I then;
My King hath died upon the tree
And hath outpoured on Calvary
What blood redeemeth you and me !
			EUGENE FIELD, 	in Chicago News.


EVANESCENT.

Slowly she came and her eyes so brown
	Were shadowed with thought, not of joy, or play;
And, musing, she said as she met my look—
	" 'Twas a butterfly, and it flied away."

Yes, over the bowers the rover went
	Heedless of all her winsome grace,
Had drank of the flowers she loved so well,
	And all less fair, than her own sweet face.

Farther he wandered where climbing high
	Gaudier flowers glared and shone
And my little one pondering 'o'er his flight,
	Among the flower beds strayed alone.

Blossoms with odors rank and strong
	Flattered his senses just as well,
As breath of roses and violets
	Or dew in the woodbine’s coral bell.

He drank where grew a poisonous draught
	And giddier whirled his joyous flight,
'Till he caught amid a silvery mesh
	Spread like a mirror to catch the light.

Drowsily resting he fell adream,
	Deeper and deeper he went alone
Adown the riotous steeps of thought
	With deadly berries and thorns o’er grown.

Well! that my little one never knew
	The fate of the rover that flew away;
Why should a regret o'er cloud her face
	That had right to sunshine 'round its way?

And then, the while that she gently mused,
	A little bird came near us and sang,
We thrilled with joy, for its voice so clear
	Around and all over above us rang.

A stranger-bird from a far-off coast,
	I knew from whither his flight had strayed;
And stories of his bright tropic home
	I told my wondering little maid.

He built his nest where we all might see
	His brilliant colors and hear his voice,
Bright Oriole ! how thy coming effaced
	Her loss and made her heart rejoice.

Oh, griefs, though ye may be great or small,
	Whether fruit of thoughtlessness or of wrong;
The heart that lists to the "still small voice"
	Shall hear and smile to the sky born song.

Oh, blessed life ! that of sin and ill
	Hath known so little that it may say—
(Scarred not, wondering, passing on)
	"False and fair, thou hast gone thy way."

Though thy baby lips the verdict framed,
	Remember it even by night and day, 
Say of all things that unworthy prove—
	“ 'Twas a butterfly,	and it flied away."


Then shall a voice by the Father sent
	Reach through the cloud with a steadfast ray,
Chiming in harmony with thy heart
	To dwell therein forever and aye !
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 29, 1890.


A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	What associations that phrase recalls! What
vivid pictures of the past, what prophetic
visions of the future! There is no other
particular day recognized as a holiday, so sig-
nificant of happiness to me, as the first day of
the new year. The term “a happy new year,”
so long and so universally applied, has given
it tone and prestige; and a glad response
springs from the heart of each recipient, when
the accustomed salutations are interchanged.
There are few people indeed in ‘civilized
countries, who do not observe some special
ceremonies on  "New Year’s Day."  Customs
change somewhat in detail, but in reality they
have been much the same for the last hundred
years. The season itself is calculated to con-
duce to happiness; and happiness is the
phantom that all pursue. In winter, families
come into closer accord; a great share of labor
which calls one from home is necessarily laid
aside, and more time is usually devoted to
fireside conversation, to reading, to study, and
to employments that savor of the home.
	Home! what a magic word! Is there a human
heart that does not feel a thrill of pleasure,
whenever the word home is uttered? How
many tender recollections, how many sacred
reminiscences it brings to mind! The word
has a peculiar meaning to the Latter-day
Saint, who knows so well what it is to be an
exile; but I must return to my subject, New
Year’s Day and winter pleasures, when the
outside world is under the absolute sway of
the king of frost and snow, and we depend
upon the domain within, for companionship
and amusement. The harvest has been
gathered, and its fruits garnered away; the'
husbandman rejoices in the abundance he has
reaped from his toil, and the good wife who
shared in the husband’s labors, partakes of the
enjoyment, and a spirit of peace broods over
the habitation, and contentment sits with them
at the hearthstone. New Year’s Eve finds
the family seated round the fireside—the
bright warm curtains are closely drawn and
each one tries to interest the other. The little
folks in the background prattle in childish, pas-
time, and sport their new dolls and Christmas
toys, while the older ones recite snatches of
verse and sing old-time songs. How many en-
chanting stories of fairies and genii have been
repeated by the winter fire, when the taper
burned low, and voices were hushed, save the
one on whom all were gazing, while they lis-
tened with strained eyes and bated breath.
The situation has its effect. How often in
childhood have I listened to these marvelous
tales, told with a grave ‘ loftiness of manner,
while, in the reflection of the flickering light,
fantastic shadows flitted about, and seemed to
take on living forms; and every nerve thrilled
with the intense excitement, producing an im-
pression never to be effaced. Ah! where was
I? At New Year’s Eve! Here let us pause
for one retrospective moment, and look back
over the hills of the radiant past, and ask our
own hearts some solemn questions, which each
one is best prepared to answer for himself?


[Column 1]
﻿What precious fruit have we garnered for the
soul’s heritage?  What evil have we overcome
in our own erring natures, and what sacrifices
have we made of self?  If wo have not been
seeking wisdom from the living fountain of
knowledge, it is a good time now to commence.
The year is slipping fast away, soon the New
Year will be upon us; it seems almost as
though we were parting with an old friend, so
strong is the imagination. It is an eve of sad-
ness and yet of joy; there are many pleasant
realisms, which fill the lap of life with bless-
ings; and if there are some sorrows, some re-
grets, some human pain, let us acknowledge
God in all things, and, trustful in His provi-
dence, look into the bright new year with hope-
ful glance, never doubting His kind care and 
protection.
	The New Year!  Yes, I hear the bells ring-
ing, and their echo is answering back, telling
such tales!  O, those wondrous bells! I linger
pen in hand, to catch the sound; like magic
their spell is upon me—are there no bells ring-
ing here to-night? What was it then? I heard
the rich tones floating in the air.  Ah me!
the bells of memory! Is fancy then so power-
ful? O those merry, merry bells! what a vision
they have presented to my view.  I am a child
again for one brief moment; in an old fashioned
house I see familiar faces, I hear them sing—
they open the doors, and a flood of music fills
the whole house, echoing from room to room;
it is the music of the midnight bells; and all at
once a rich burst; the melody of human voices
in joyous chorus, shouting “A happy new
year?”
	Tenderly we take leave of the old; re-
luctantly we reach out to the future, knowing
not what it may bring in its train.  We are
blest to-day—friends, loving, warm and true
are round about us.  How grateful all should
be who are surrounded with the blessed
luxuries of home and friends. The new year
is a fitting time for re-unions, sweet inter-
changes of affection, the precious endearments
that sweeten the cup of life, the graces that
embellish the sanctuary of the heart.  There
should be no deceit, no affectation at such
seasons, but heart speaking to heart without
flattery or empty compliment.  Let it be one
of the fresh, green places in our lives towards
which, in after years, we may turn with a
sense of infinite restfulness, a refuge of peace
in moments of pain.  That which ye sow, ye
shall also reap—if we sow the seeds of love
and kindness in youth, may we not anticipate
a rich harvest of blessed love in return, when
the winter of age has silvered over the shin-
ing hair, and one by one, bright hopes, fondly
nurtured. have faded away? While we cherish
reverently the beautiful past, and our hearts
yearn for the tender tones that have long
since been forever hushed in the stillness of
death—let us not forget the living, who are
hungering all around us for love and affec-
tion.
	It is well to be fully alive to the needs of
the overflowing present, for no greater age
was ever ushered in than the one in which
we are now living.  There are grand possibil-
ities to engage in of sufficient importance to
satisfy the most ambitious; but nothing gives
to life such complete fulness of expression as
domestic happiness.  Without it the whole 
world would be an aching void.  The greatest 
men who ever lived, while standing upon the
pinnacle of fame, have felt the sorest need of
sympathy, have pined for true, unselfish devo-
tion.  Strong in intellect, yet, in moments of
weakness and doubt that come alike to all,
needing human love to give them courage.
Everything  which tends to exalt human
character should be encouraged, and the culti-
vation of domestic affections assuredly en-

[Column 2]
nobles and beautifies life. The homes of the 
people are sure indications of their capabilities.
Build up the home, fortify it with walls of
affection, hedge it round with delicate germs
of tenderness, and let it be ever curtained
with gentle charity. Like fragrant flowers
along our pathway, whose perfume lingers
with us, long after passing, are the blessed
holidays, scattered here and there along the
road of life, helping to brighten the dreary
way; and one of the best of these is New Year’s
Day.
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

	THE romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the contrary,
notwithstanding. And perhaps  one of the
most interesting things that invariably lends
charm to real life is a love letter, whether it is
a few words ungrammatically written, or an
epistle filled with the choicest language; it
matters not if the person by whom the words
were penned is capable of pouring into the
composition the true eloquence of the soul, it
finds its counterpart in the heart of the receiver,
and is forever cherished among the most valu-
able treasures.  I am aware of the old saying,
it is easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart is
in it or not. There may be exceptions to this
rule as there are to all others, but many a
happy union has been consummated because of
some outpouring of the human heart on paper;
and many a reconciliation has been effected
through a love letter where a misunderstanding
or a lover’s quarrel had existed.  Some strange
things have happened too, worth relating for 
the amusement of a winter evening, for though 
we speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more unions
are consummated than “June the month of 
roses and of love,” but the courting has been
done beforehand in the long winter evenings
and finished off possibly in the lovely Spring 
time, with the perfume of violets in the air
and the sweet songs of the wild birds in their
ecstacy, nest building; by the brink of some
mossy brook or flowing fountain, or under the
apple boughs when the pink and white blossoms
were fluttering to the ground.  But apropos
of old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell. In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret and
these places were the repository of everything
that the family wanted to put out of sight, and
occasionally some treasure would be lost among  
the heaps of rubbish carried up there, when
the clearing up, or house cleanings were in 
progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will never-
theless be as good as new, for it has been well-
kept.  The principal actors in the pretty
drama are dead long ago, but we do not even
at this late date feel justified in giving their
real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s one
day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle of
old letters tied  with a very faded and soiled
yellow lute-string ribbon would make
a sash for her dolly and proceeded forthwith
to untie the knots, and scatter the letters
among the rubbish, never dreaming that in so
doing, she was divulging a secret or disclosing
a treachery.  But so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that ribbon
?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her little
grand niece who was playing with her dolly in
the drawing-room, and then such a crowd of

[Column 2]
memories came rushing back as she took the
once pretty ribbon in her fingers, fondling it
that little Helen suspected she had done some-
thing naughty, but the child was on the best of
terms with Aunt Dorothy, and as if to make
reparation said, ‘I found it in the garret and
washed it for my new doll, it was tied in such
hard knots around a bundle of old papers
with ink so faded no one could ever read
them. “What did you do with them child?”
said Aunt Dorothy, excitedly, “I threw them
down again in the corner with a whole lot of
other things, “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought grand-
ma wouldn’t like that, I only wanted the
pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.” “Very
odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy in an absent way,
and was soon slowly and thoughtfully wending 
her way up the staircase, and then on again to
the garret, talking to herself as she went, ‘I
wonder what letters could have been hid away
up there for all these years. Its forty years or
more since I wore that ribbon, how happy I 
was then and what a bright future I antici-
pated, and then came those evil days, when a
dark shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me.  O, why have these remembrances
come back, just at the sight of a faded rib-
bon?” Sure enough, why do those tender days
that are gone come back and haunt us, when
we have groped blindly through the darkness
and sorrow and find ourselves calmed by the
distance that divides us from the dismal past.
Thus musing, Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the
last step and surveyed the garret searchingly;
she went through pile after pile of cast off
clothing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered some
papers peeping from out a corner and trem-
blingly reached out to take the shattered work-
box containing them, for such it proved to be
in her hands.  She shook like an aspen tree as
she lifted it, and it fell in fragments at her
feet, and out from the papers rolled down
among the rubbish on the floor,a ring with an
glowing setting.  For a moment she seemed
stunned, a great sob came swelling up in her
throat, and her mouth was dry and parched,
and she sank down upon the floor as pathetic-
ally as if she had been a beautiful young girl
still in her teens, instead of an old maid of
half a century.
	But no one would have guessed her age for
she was still strikingly handsome and exquis-
itely neat in her dress, and had that sort of
delicate way of adjusting everything that we
call stylish, the draping of her brown silk dress
lay about her soft folds and with her eyes
suffused with tears, she gazed wonderingly
upon the lost ring she had found after all these
long years.  So many times she had ransacked
boxes, drawers and closets, in possible and
impossible places, and now it had come to light 
too late, when her hair was silvered o’er and
her eyes faded with weeping.  An emerald
ring, engraved D. V. from E. L., such a pecu-
liar shape, a rare beauty she had once thought
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night he had given it to her under the great
elm tree, in the yard,and pledged his faith, his
honor, the devotion of a life time, and begged
her to be his promised bride, and with maiden
blushes, and modest downcast eyes more elo-
quent than words, she had given him his silent
answer.  The few months that followed the
betrothal had been full of sweetness and the
tenderest association lovers could enjoy whose
sentiments were so near akin.  But in their 
case the old adage proved true, “The course of
true love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy shiver-
ing in the garret while we go over her past life,
and tell what befell her, and why she was a
lonely old maid in the home of her childhood,


where the third generation was now growing
up, instead of being a happy grandmother like
her sister-in-law who was only a few years
older.
	Singular coincidences sometimes transpire;
that might almost lead us to believe in the
fatuity of certain events acting upon each other,
years had passed by since anything had hap-
pened to call up these tender reminiscences in
Aunt Dorothy’s past and now just a faded old
ribbon had awakened a torrent of emotions,
and a flood of events came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and Miss
Vose gathered up the broken box and scraps
of paper in her black silk apron and fled down
the stairs to her own room as though all the
ghosts of those haunted memories were follow-
her. Once in her chamber with the door se-
curely fastened, she picked up piece by piece
the broken workbox where these papers had
been hidden away. She knew the box well, it
had been a handsome one inlaid with pearl,
but now fallen apart, disclosing its contents. 
But how came the ring in the possession of the
the owner of the box; that was a mystery she 
could never expect to unravel, not even if
she could make up her mind to read the let-
ters, which she hardly dared to think of yet
though they were in her keeping. She took
the faded fragments one by one and laid them
together, and the broken box and put them in
a drawer and turned the key as if to shut
them out of her sight, and away from the
temptation of reading them. Her face was
paler than usual, and her limbs quivered as
she descended to the dining-room when supper
was announced, but apparently no one noticed
anything unusual in her face or manner ex-
cept little Helen, who had not forgotten how
strangely her aunt had questioned her about
the yellow ribbon, and when they were leav-
ing the table the child approached her saying,
“Are you ill Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not
ill, only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.” “Were
you a little girl then like me?” inquired the
little grand-niece. “O, no, I was a young
lady with great expectations,” said Aunt
Dorothy with a strong emphasis on the two
last words. Little Helen looked puzzled, but
with childish persistency she pursued her in-
quiries, “Was that when your picture was
painted that hangs in grandpa’s room over
his desk.” “My picture was painted so long
ago I really don’t know. I never look at it.
It is not like your mamma’s Aunt Dorothy
is it?” “Yes a little, I believe you had the
yellow ribbon on that’s what made you take
so much notice of it when you saw it today.”
Miss Vose was glad the child was satisfied
and soon after retired for the night; should
not however yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the perusal.
She tried in vain to sleep, the wretched past
came so vividly to mind, that the gray dawn
of morning found her still tossing upon her
pillows, her head aching and eyelids heavy
with weeping. Finally she fell asleep; the
bright sunshine streaming into her room awoke
her, and she started up suddenly but lay
down for a moment or two and thought over
again the dream from which she had been
aroused. She had certainly had a remarkable
dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and
anxiously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she re-
plied perhaps the peculiar dream she had that
morning was the cause, and her brother and
his daughter joined in the request that she
should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: "I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by

[Column 2]
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the in-
spiration of the Holy Ghost, and the transla-
tion had been published in a book; and he had
the book with him and showed it to us, and
then the scene changed and we were in the
woods about a mile from here where the river is
deep between those big rocks, and the same
stranger stood in the water and baptized us
all, and I shivered with cold and woke with
the sun shining into my room.
	“Dorothy”said her brother addressing her“did
you know the man who came bearing this
Gospel message?” Dorothy replied rather re-
luctantly, “I think I did it was one we knew
intimately in days gone by.” Mr. Vose knew
very well what his sister meant when she
spoke thus, for they never had mentioned his
name for years, even to each other. “I can-
not think why I should dream of him after
all these long years, but it was a singular
dream don't you think so?” “Very strange,
but then you must not think of it, you look
quite ill and sad, and if you brood over such
hallucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters the
day before, reason enough why she should
dream of her old lover, but during the day
the dream and the reality both troubled her,
and she resolved to put an end to her imagi
nary fears by going over the old letters to
see why they had been left behind, when those
whom she was sure they most concerned had
fled like fugitives and had never returned.
	What was the lady’s amazement when she
put on her spectacles and looked at the papers
to find one of her own letters, addressed to
Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury, Mass. It
was sealed with a pink wafer and on it was
the initial L. She paused in a tremor of ex-
citement. Why had this letter lain there all
these years hidden away from her, and she un-
knowing of its ever having been written. She
could not open it now, it seemed too much
joy—and yet she knew not what it contained,
but it was from Edward, her lover—O,so long
ago—and yet she could never hear his name,
without her heart beating more rapidly, and
her face betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one by
one, and found some in his handwriting ad-
dressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin, and
rival, she could not and would not read them,
she fancied she knew the purport of their
contents. Her own letter, she kissed again
and again, and tried to summon courage to
read it, she had no need to break the pretty
seal, for the corners, were worn and it was
easy to open the folds, for those were not the
days of envelopes, remember; she turned the
letter over and over, until a curl of pretty
auburn hair fell from it, and she could no
longer resist the desire to see what he had
written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the emerald
ring, for it was part of himself; he might be
dead, she knew not; but this pretty curl was
something she could keep; how vexed she had
felt when Helen found the ribbon, but now
how glad, it had led to the unfolding of a
mystery, the lost ring, and the auburn curl,
two treasures she would cherish while life
lasted; the hatred and jealousy of her cousin
were gone now, though the sorrow had never
left her heart, but she had long ago forgiven
them both, and would have been glad to know
if they were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a

[Column 3]
message from an unknown region, out of the
beautiful past. At last she took up the scraps
and put them together for as she tried to open
it—the pieces fell apart—and her heart almost
stood still while she gazed upon the words—
Miss Dorothy Vose once my afficanced wife:
the letter was dated Boston Mass. Jan. 1805,
and in it he poured out in burning words his
love, his disappointment, reproaching her for
inconstancy and entreating her to accept a
lock of his hair, that in some lonely hour
when she had forgotten his devotion she might
be reminded of him; the ring he had given
her he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual love
and constancy as well as of their betrothal.
	In conclusion he said “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no more
from you, I shall ask her hand in marriage.
If I cannot win the heart of her whom I have
chosen out of all the world, I will devote my-
self to making another happy, who loves me
with unutterable tenderness. Farewell! and
if we never meet again remember that you
have driven me from you with your pride
and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned no
doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the oppor-
tunity to reply to them nor had she even
known that Edward deigned to make any
explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Mary loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin's
presence though she was her guest and aware
of the engagement. Dorothy saw her lover
drift away from her, and her modesty and
reticence kept her from any demonstration of
her suffering. Edward attributed it to cold-
ness and indifference. Mary was well versed
in the art of coquetry, and it was an easy
matter to win her country cousin’s lover, her
heart was in the matter too, for though she
had gone through two or three gay seasons,
since she became of age; no one had ever in-
terested her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man, with
bright prospects in store and it was not strange
that she should love him, but he was blind
not to see that behind the reserve of Miss
Dorothy there was a depth of sentiment that
her cousin Mary was incapable of feeling; she
was a gay butterfly of fashion, fond of dancing
and society, while her country cousin was
staid and womanly fond of home-life and ready
to make sacrifices for the happiness of others
instead of seeking her own.
	But we will not go back into the details of
the occurrences that had left Miss Dorothy
alone in the old home, there is no need for in
a short time after the finding of the letter and
the ring, her dream came to pass literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking over
the sermon they had heard that day, and Aunt
Dorothy expressed some dissatisfaction as to
the genuineness of the preacher: “It did not
come from his heart,” she argued and was
therefore ineffective, “what would I give to
hear the voice of a true preacher of righteous-
ness?” added the lady, and she continued
“hear the Scriptures expounded as I under-
stand them,I am weary of the tone and manner
of our orthodox ministers, it has grown
monotonous to me.” “Dorothy” said her
brother, who was the only one who ever dared
to disagree with the lady, “don’t you think
you are growing very extreme in your ideas?
Is there anything that comes up to your
standard of excellence? Aren’t you looking
for a miracle, remember these are not the days
of the Savior and his Apostles, though we do
profess to be his followers.”
	“Yes but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
	[Continued on page 110.]


The light is fading in the West—the many
tints of brightness have left the waving cloud-
lets and now they nestle together like pure
white-winged doves upon the broad blue heaven.
So beautifully blue. The old year is dying,
and visions of the past rise before us, softened
and mellowed by the idolizing tough of
memory—Years flow back full of voices
eloquent and pathetic: pavilions and gaves, pas-
sages of deep feelings strange and varied experi-
ences, withered garlands, broken rings, vases once
fragrant with flowers, hopes that failed,
buried expectations, and many a joy whereon the
memorial wreath is laid. These things back
of us known only to heaven, help to shape
our lives. Dear faces, the pressure of hands,
snatches of song, the light of long closed eyes,
and the distant murmnr of solemn earnest
prayer. All these we treasure reverently. Oh !
is it not a blessed faith that tells us of a life
immortal? By and by all lost things will come
back unto us,—like ships with which we
parted by night, they will come back fairer
than they went to anchorage. Here we watch
and wait, while the years roll on and away
with this life, giving soul cheering faith, when
shall come the fulfillment of a hope founded
on the immutable promises and boundless love
of the Almight Father, And the old conflicts
shall pass away and disappear amid the
everlasting light of a glorious Day.
	L. M. H.
	Atchison Kan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake city, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 		JANUARX I, 1891.


[Column 1]

THE YEAR OF GRACE 1891.

	The world has entered upon a year much talked
of by men and women whose researches have
brought them in contact with important facts in
the history of the globe, both scientists and prog-
nosticators, as well as those who profess much
irregular knowledge of the planetary system.
"Old women's sayings" are not all that are brought
forward in proof of great events that are to take
place during the present year now just upon us.
Most of us have heard of Mother Shipton's
prophecy and of old Mrs. Van Hoesen; and those
who are living in these peculiar days fraught with
the wonderful inventions and surprises that are
continually bursting upon and electrifying our
sober senses, are aware that extraordinary oc-
currences are actually taking place and that ac-
cording to the Scriptures "knowledge is increas-
ing and the people are running to and fro in the
midst of the earth," as foretold by the ancient
prophets.
	Dissatisfaction among the working classes with
monopolies is one of the disturbing elements of
the present time, and notwithstanding all the ele-
vating influences and tendencies that are abroad
in the world the opposite power reigns and pre-
dominates to an alarming extent, enlightenment
is spreading and so are the engines of destruc-
tion, a greater work is being done in Temperence
reforms and every day the need of it increases.
	But there are many "signs of the times" indica-
tive of some great change that is surely pending.
The Stoic and philosopher may reason differently
and work out everything by an evolutionary pro-
cess. but the Lord's ways are not as man's ways
and they are past finding out and are only re-
vealed as He sees fit to his servants the prophets
when it seemeth Him good that his people may
be prepared.
	The Latter-day Saints have been commanded
in these last days to do a certain work, to gather
to Zion, to build Temples, and perform therein
ordinances for the living and for the dead; this
work has been commenced and the powers of
darkness have sought to hinder it; they have
caused unjust and prohibitory laws to be made to
hinder the full exercise of religious freedom for
which our forefathers fought and bled and suffered
untold privations. But the powers of dark-
ness cannot over-rule the purposes of the Al-
mighty, the little stone that Daniel saw is rolling
forth and will accomplish its purpose and the
vision of Daniel will be fulfilled, and the
prophecies of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball will as surely come to
pass, and some of them are being fulfilled before
our very eyes from day to day as hundreds of
this people can testify. In the meantime it be-
hooves those who are engaged in this great Lat-
ter-day work to be up and doing; faithful to every
duty and watchful of themselves.

[Column 2]

	The beginning of a new year is generally a
time for new resolves and greater efforts for self-
cultivation and self-improvement. The tendency
of the mind at such times is towards a higher de-
velopment of the better qualities of the head and
heart, and consequently love and charity for
others whose conditions may not be as favorable;
and what a pity it is that these holiday feelings
and thoughts, these better impulses do not prompt
one all the year to its very close, that one need
not put them on and off as they do a garment, but
keep continually that kindly spirit, how the world
would be benefitted thereby. At any rate those
who profess to be Saints should make some per-
ceptible improvement as the years roll round. If
there are more temptations than there were once
"in our happy valley," then the strength to resist
these evil influences should be doubled with the
grace and integrity obtained by the supreme
heights attained.
	The circumstances in which this people are
placed at the beginning of this year are calculated,
one would think, to make them sober-minded and
thoughtful, and yet many are giving themselves up
to gaiety and lives of pleasure? And not only
the young, but many who have had experience
are carried on by the tide-wave of pleasure that
seems to have set in upon society and has
reached "our mountain home" with its fascinat-
ing attractions; that some bright and warning
lights should be set along the shore, to ward off
danger of wrecks would seem to be a positive
necessity. Those who have the power and the for-
titude to warn the unwary and over confident ones
that there is danger lurking near them, should
"sound the alarm," and indeed is it not the im-
perative duty of teachers and Elders and fathers
and mothers to check in some degree the apparent
inclination to frivolity and excess of pleasure.
Rational enjoyment and recreation is proper for
all, and one is likely to do better work if suitable
amusements are mingled with it in moderation;
social life should have some claims and holiday
time is a blessing on that account if extremes are
not indulged in, but the spirit of the age is "fast"
and unless the saints take every precaution, many
of them are likely to be plunged into the whirl-
pool of fashionable excitement and forget their
allegiance to God and His laws and command-
ments. The women of Zion should be wide-
awake to the dangers that are lurking beneath
the seemingly harmless current with which some
of the sons and daughters of the Saints are drift-
ing away from the shores of safety, and far away
from the valley of humility out into the mid-ocean
of extravagance with its tempting allurements,
but where they can only see fair sailing. Burns
says:

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower, its bloom is shed,
	Or like the snow-fall in the river,—
	A moment white, then melts forever."

	And the poet Young writing of pleasure has 
this to say,

	"Pleasures are few, and fewer we enjoy,
	Pleasure, like quicksilver, is bright and coy;
	We strive to grasp it with our utmost skill
	Still it eludes us, and it glitters still;
	If seized at last compute your mighty gains;
	What is it but rank poison in your veins?"


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A Woman's Suffrage Association for Davis Co.
was organized at Farmington Sept. 25, 1890 with
the following officers, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Presi-
dent; Mrs. Athalia Steed, 1st Vice Pres. Miss
Lizzie Smith 2nd Vice Pres. Mrs. Jessie Stringam
3rd Vice Pres. Mrs. Ann Dustin, Vice Pres. for
East Bountiful, Miss Clara Leonard, Secretary;
Miss Emma Welling Cor. Sec., Mrs. Mary
Millard, Treasurer; Miss Kate Chase, Chairman


Executive Committee, Mrs. Augusta J. Croche-
ron, Mrs. Lizzie Coombs, Miss Alice Clark, Mrs.
Mary E. Clark and Miss Annie Christenson,
members of Ex. Com. Remarks were made by
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City and Jacob Miller, Susan Grant,
and Ezra T. Clark of Farmington upon the subject
in question, and quite a number of members were
enrolled upon the record. The newly-elected
President also made a few remarks, and Mrs.
Kimball gave some special directions to the
officers; since that time they have held regular
meetings, and are we are informed making good
progress.
	On Oct. 24, a meeting of the W. S. A. was held
at Farmington, at which Mrs. Emily S. Richards
of Salt Lake City spoke quite forcibly and in-
terestingly, giving some of her experiences in
Conventions in Washington D. C. Prof. Green-
wood also delivered a lecture upon the object of
woman suffrage associations and the benefits to
be derived therefrom. We are sorry we have
not space to give the remarks of these two
speakers in full; Prof. Howells also made some
pertinent remarks. Since then an organiznation
has been made at Kaysville but we have not the
names of the officers at hand.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	The first triennial meeting of the National
Council of representative women of the United
States is to be held in Albaugh's Opera House in
Washington D. C., commencing on the 23rd of
February and lasting three days previous to the
N. A. W. S. A. Convention. The National
Council is an outgrowth of the International
Council of 1888, which did so much good in unit-
ing the efforts of all organized bodies of women,
not only in America but from the lands across the
sea. Europe, Finland, India etc. At the close
of the International Council at that time a Com-
mittee on a basis Organization of a National
Council was appointed and they were to prepare
Preamble and Resolutions which resulted in the
following measures as a Constitution, which were
adopted after changing one or two terms.

CONSTITUTION OF THE
WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
ORGANIZED AT WASHINGTON, D. C.,
MARCH 31, 1888.

PREAMBLE.
	We, women of the United States, sincerely be-
lieving that the best good of our homes and
nation will be advanced by our own greater unity
of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an or-
ganized movement of women will best conserve 
the highest good of the family and the State, do
hereby band ourselves together in a confederation
of workers committed to the overthrow of all
forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the appli-
cation of the Golden Rule to society, custom and
law.
	That we may more successfully prosecute the
work, we adopt the following

CONSTITUTION.	
ARTICLE I.
Name.

	This federation shall be called the Woman's 
National Council of the United States.

ARTICLE II.
General Policy.

	This Council is organized in the interest of no
one propaganda, and has no power over its
auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sym-
gathy; therefore, no society voting to become
auxiliary to this Council, shall thereby render
tself liable to be interfered with in respect to its


complete organic unity, independence, or methods
of work, or be committed to any principle or
method of any other society or to any utterance
or act of the Council itself, beyond compliance
with the terms of this Constitution.

ARTICLE III.
Officers.
	The officers shall be a President, Vice-Presi-
dent at Large, Corresponding Secretary, Record-
ing Secretary, and Treasurer. Each president
of an auxiliary society shall be an ex-officio vice-
president of the National Council, and the Presi-
dent of the National Council shall be ex-officio
Vice-President of the International Council.
	The five general officers, with the Vice-Presi-
dents, shall constitute an Executive Committee of
which seven members shall make a quorum, to
control and provide for the general interests of
the Council.

ARTICLE IV.
Auxiliaries.
	Any society of women, the nature of whose
work is satisfactory to the Executive Committee,
either as to its undoubtedly national character or
national value, may become auxiliary to this
Council by its own vote and by the payment of a
sum amounting to half a cent yearly per member
in addition to a payment of twenty-five dollars,
into treasury of the National Council not later
than three months prior to its triennial meetings.

ARTICLE V.
Meetings.
	The National Council shall hold triennial meet-
ings. The Committee of Arrangements shall be
composed of the Executive Committee and one
delegate chosen by each auxiliary society as its
representative.

ARTICLE VI.
	This Constitution may be altered or amended
by a majority vote of the Council at any triennial
meeting, printed notice thereof having been sent
to each member of the Executive Committee at
least three months prior to such meeting.

	It will perhaps be remembered by the readers
of the EXPONENT that the organizations of the
Relief Society, Mutual Improvement Associations
and Primary were each represented at the Inter-
national Council in 1888—and that it will be
the proper thing to represent them again after
three years growth and increase. The women of
Utah should not be behind in any good work but
march onward and keep pace with the spirit of
the times; standing side by side with the great
enterprises that are being engaged in for the ad-
vancement of all humanity. It is doubtful in the
mind of the writer, if there is any organization of
women that has accomplished so much in the
various departments of woman's work, elevation,
and higher cultivation as has the Relief Society.
Thousands upon thousands of dollars have been
received and disbursed, industries started, and in
many ways it has been advantageous for the
community as well as those directly engaged in
the active work. Its basis is broad, deep and
high; while its first efforts are for the relief of
the poor, the sick and unfortunate, it reaches
out to all kinds of reforms, and the cultivation of
the grandest powers of which the human soul is
capable.
	The Relief Society has branches in many other
lands as well as the United States and Canada.
In England, Scotland, Germany, Switzerland,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, also on the
Sandwich and Samoan Islands, in Australia and
New Zealand. The organization is so perfect that
those at a distance are in communication with the
Central Board in this City and keep posted in re-
gard to all matters that are for the benefit of the
whole Society. Reports are received, and a

[Column 2]

General Report made semi-annually. These re-
ports include what comes under the head of
statistical and financial information but the mental
moral and spiritual elevation and the knowledge
acquired with many other noble deeds of devotion
and the alleviation of suffering humanity are only
recorded in the archives of heaven and engraven
on the hearts of those who have been partakers
of these blessings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to Jeanie Mc'Lean who
departed this life November 25th 1890, aged 73.
Deceased was a native of Johnson near Glasgow,
Scotland.
	Sister McLean was set apart by Bishop A.
Speirs July the 15th 1880 as President of the Pri-
mary Association of the 10th Ward of this City,
and about the same time was appointed Treasurer
of the Relief Society of the ward, and
	Whereas she for many years past has been with
Sister Elizabeth H. Paul administering and com-
forting the sick—and
	Whereas she held these offices up to the time
of her death—we truly feel that we have lost a
faithful worker in the Society—Therefore be it
	Resolved, that we esteem and appreciate her
past faithful labors, and devotion to duty, for
which she has the worthy respect of us all; and
desire to follow her noble example.
	Resolved that we present a copy a copy of these
Resolutions to her son, and publish the same in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on
our Record in the Relief Society and also in the
Primary Association.
		IDA SPEIRS,
		R. T. NESS,
			Committee.

	In is only a just tribute to the memory of a most
excellent woman and member of this Church, for
the writer, who knew her well to place on record
a few items as a testimonial of her faithfulness and
integrity. Sister Mc'Lean was a spiritual-minded
woman and wherever she went in the society of
the Saints she carried a comforting influence;
she was well versed in the Bible, and was able
to speak understandingly on all the principles of
the Gospel citing Scripture proofs in support
thereof. Sister Mc'Lean had quite a remarkable
presence, large and what might really be termed
a magnificent figure. She was specially gifted in
prayer and in public speaking though very modest
in manner on all occasions when called before the
public. She had that genuine sympathy for the
poor, the unfortunate, and afflicted that always
blesses while it administers physical or temporal
relief.
	The children of the Primary Association in the
tenth Ward will have reason to remember their
President,who labored so faithfully and effectively
in the interest of that organization for more than
ten years; always at her post, with a smile on her
face and a benediction on her lips. A true wo-
man in those graces that best adorn womanhood,
a mother in Israel and a Latter-day Saint in word
and in deed.


[Column 1]

MOTHER AND SON.

	Now the season advances, the season of the
year! the season of bright smiles of mysterious
parcels; the season which brings the happiness to
the children’s hearts, that no other time can bring.
The season that fills more hearts with love, and
prompts more to generous deeds than all of the
other seasons combined. The time when the
father lays aside his cares and rejoices with his
little ones. The time when the mother’s fond
heart is overflowing with love for all the world.
For she with her motherly feeling recalls every

[Column 2]
throb of pleasure which animated the heart of her
who was an instrument in bringing iuto the world
the Savior of mankind.
	There is none who can more deeply sympathize
with that mother’s broken heart who was borne
away fainting from the cross where hung her
darling son; than mothers themselves.
	We are all moved by the pathetic story of our
Savior’s death. His was a blameless life sacri-
ficed on the altar of love, but to that broken-
hearted mother he was not the. Savior of the
world, he was the loving dutiful son, who in in-
fancy slumbered on her breast. Those little feet
she guided in their tottering steps. It was his
voice whose accents caused her heart to throb,
when he first pronounced the magic word
“mother.” And when she saw him grow strong
in the grace of His Father who sent him, and
when she heard the voice from heaven proclaim,
“This is my beloved son in whom I am- well
pleased,” how that mother’s heart  swelled with
pride, and when by the power of that spirit the
multitude followed Him, He teaching them his
Father’s will, healing their sick, raising the dead,
causing the lame to walk, the blind to see, how
fervently she must have thanked her Father for
such a son.
	The scene changed, as the poet said, “As all
things human change,” her joy was turned to fear
for rumors reached her that cruel men were
jealous of her son. She knew what that meant
she trembled for his safety, she prayed for his
protection but, alas, it could not be, he had come
on wings of love and was willing to make the
greatest sacrifice the world has ever known to
save unborn millions. But was her grief less
mortal ?
	Since the star that guided the humble rejoicing
shepherd lads to see the Holy mother and son in
that rude cnamber in Bethlehem nearly 19 hund-
red years have passed, and millions have died
with the-sacred word Jesus on their lips. Count-
less little children have murmured their morning
and evening prayer in His name. His merciful
words “Go sin no more” have been the means of
turning back to the path of virtue thousands'that
would have been entirely lost.
	How did mother’s live before he came! Bend-
ingover the dying forms of their little ones, whose"'
tiny feet had never gone beyond the gates of
home. How hard to watch the spark of life ex-
pire and know those little lives they had guided
with such tender care would enter the great un-
known alone? Ah! none but those who have
passed through such scenes, fully appreciate the
loving words of our Savior “Suffer little child-
ren to come unto me and forbid them not for of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven.” When we re-
flect, what would we do without His teachings?
What would the poor do without His promises?
It is not strange that the name Jesus as it falls
on our ear has a softening influence on the soul.
It touches a cord in the human heart causing the
love to bubble up and overflow, to gladden the
lives of those around. The name Jesus teaches
us love, patience, endurance and good will to
men.
	VINA.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	TWILIGHT MUSINGS.

	It is the hour of twilight—calm, soothing,
holy. The whole earth seems hushed to a
pleasant slumber, and a sad sweet smile lies
upon nature's face. The gold and crimson
clouds that but a moment ago spread across
the western sky like a brilliant curtain, have
grown paler, softer and now their delicate
lines mingle with fleecy white and deep
azure and they float over the dome of
heaven like birds of exquisite plumage, or
seraph forms smiling upon the quiet earth-


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

[Concluded.]
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them, there is nothing Christ-like about them,"
replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period and since, by the spirit of the times; a
forerunner of what was about to transpire.
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the same
subject, the great old-fashioned knocker on
the front door made a clanging sound echoing
through the house, and when the door was
opened two strangers in heavy overcoats and
frosty beards announcing themselves as
missionaries asked for a night's lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air many
seconds for this was a hospitable house and
being a little distance from the town travelers
often stopped for dinner or over night. When
the gentlemen were ushered into the warm
sittingroom, they were kindly greeted by the
master and mistress as well as the younger
members of the household and Mr. Vose in-
quired if they had taken supper. Something
in the voice of the elder man sounded familiar
to the host, and he said "Are you from a
distance? you seem like a Western man, but,
and he directed his glance to the first speaker
your accent is decidedly Eastern. Laselle
for it was he could no longer conceal his
identity, no matter what sort of reception he
might receive; he had come purposely, though
thinking after so many years, he might not be
recognized. He replied to Mr. Vose, that he
was from the West, but formerly resided in
Boston; that in days gone by he had been
"quite a regular visitor in this very house."
	"And you come here now for shelter and as
a missionary preaching the word of the Lord,
after the deception you practiced, betraying
the confidence of my sister," before he could
finish the sentence Dorothy Vose had risen to
her feet and with the same complacent
dignity that had characterised her throughout
her whole life, she interposed, "My dear
brother these men are our guests for to night,
do not expose our family affairs to them, nor

[Column 2]

here before these young people. Let us speak
soberly together and apart if needs be."
Edward Laselle looked like one amazed, he
had also risen to his feet when Mr. Vose
accosted him in that recriminating tone, in fact
he had expected a scene of some sort, though
until he entered the house that evening he
knew not if Dorothy was living or dead, nor
whether the place was in possession of any he
had formerly been acquainted with; but he
had been sent out into the New England
States to preach the Gospel and his footsteps
had led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possible.
Alone in the old familiar parlor where they
had sat many an evening in "the long ago,"
though somewhat modernized now, Edward
Laselle and Dorothy Vose with her brother
talked over the events of the past so closely
interwoven with their lives. She explained to
him how only a few days before she had found
the lost ring, then the unopened letter, though
she did not mention the auburn curl; Edward
betrayed much more emotion than she did, and
Mr. Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, nor did
he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he seemed
fearful of venturing upon untried ground; but
Dorothy who had seen him in a dream inquired
what his mission was, and what book he had
under his arm when he came into the room.
Thus a conversation began that lasted for
hours and was renewed again in the early
morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new to
her. It was the beginning of the fulfillment of
her dream; she was impressed with the testi-
mony borne to her by the Mormon Elder and
so was her brother; they believed the truth
as soon as it was made known to them. How
wonderful it all seemed! Had Mr. Laselle
arrived at the house previous to the discovery
of the letter he would have been turned away
without a hearing, but the finding of the ring
and the letter had so softened the heart of
Miss Dorothy, that she was willing to bury
all old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks and
there on a peaceful Sabbath morning one week
from the date of their arrival the whole Vose
family were baptized by Edward Laselle the
"Mormon" Elder. The Elders had remained
in that vicinity during the week preaching
every evening and expounding the doctrines
of the Church as opportunities offered. There
were several others besides the Vose family
that received baptism, and ere long a branch
of the Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss
Dorothy Vose which she granted him, he
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more, and
yet he felt he had no claim upon her con-
fidence. The interview he sought was cheer-
fully granted him in the old parlor, and there
he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent,or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and she
had consented without hesitation or reserve.
Almost immediately after their marriage they
had taken "the Western fever" and had gone
out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard the
Gospel and embraced it and ever since that
time he had been a firm believer and advocate

[Column 3]

of its principles. When he was called to go
out as a missionary his appointment was to
the New England States, and his inclination
had led him to visit the scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number of
years, his daughters had kept house for him,
but they were all married now and he was
quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward and
Dorothy forgave each other "kissed and made
up;" we will leave the rest to the reader's
imagination and only tell them that this time
they married, and Dorothy consoled herself
with the thought that had it not been for the
misunderstanding between them,Edward would
probably not have been a "Mormon," nor would
she have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her brother
to send him away that Sabbath evening as he
fully intended to do. There might be another
story written on their married life and what
happened but we only add,  that the Vose
family gathered with the Saints along with
many others from that vicinity.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
OF
ELIZABETH BROTHERTON PRATT.

	I worked all summer on the farm planted,
hoed and weeded, although I did not know
a weed from a plant until Mr. Pratt showed
me the difference. We were much in want of
some articles of clothing. I had no shoes to
wear, and I took some old cloth and made me
a pair and put rawhide on them for soles.
But we did not long want, as Bro- Kimball
had prophesied that there should be a plenty
although there was no prospect at the time,
and he said afterward that he could see no
way that it would come true, but his words
were literally fulfilled.
	One of the Mormon Battalion boys dis-
covered gold while in California in the year
1848 and on their return to the City the news
soon reached the States, and gold seekers
made ready their teams, chattels and goods,
not having knowledge and wisdom they loaded
too heavily and had to throw out part of
their burdens by the way. When the emi-
grants reached here they traded with the
people for things they needed and supplied
our wants with groceries, bacon and clothing.
Some of them staid with us through the
winter. In this, we could see the hand of the
Lord.
	March 19th 1851 Mr. Pratt was appointed
on a mission to the Pacific Coast to organize
and set in order the Saints that had gone
there not knowing where the church would
locate, They went in the ship Brooklyn, I
went with him to San Francisco, we traveled
in company with A. Lyman, and C. C. Rich
when they were going to St. Bernerdino with
a company of Saints. After a tiresome
journey we arrived in San Francisco. Mr.
Pratt remained there and rebaptized quite a
number in about two months time. He then
appointed an Elder to preside and sailed to
Chili Sept. 5th 1851 on another mission. I
remained in California with the saints, they
employed me to do their family sewing which
was quite a help to the family living at Salt
Lake in Mr. Pratt's absence. He returned in
May 1852, we left San Francisco and visited
San Bernerdino and arrived at home Oct.
1852.
	April 9th 1853 at the Conference the
corner stone of the Temple at Salt Lake was
laid, it was a solemn and glorious time long to
be remembered. On the 6th of April 1854
Mr. Pratt was appointed on a second mission
to California. On the 5th of May we bade
farewell to home and friends and arrived in


[Column 1]

San Francisco on the 2nd of July. My health
was very poor; on this mission we hired a house
large enough to accomodate the Elders going
and returning from their missions. Mr. Pratt
traveled about and organized branches at
San Jose, Santa Clara and St. John's preached
the Gospel and held discussions.
	In March 1855 Mr. Pratt received a number
of books, Church works, from England and
we opened a store in San Francisco; this we
kept but a short time as we soon left for our
Valley home. I became acquainted with
some sisters in whose society I spent many
happy days and as they had not the privilege
to come here, and have passed into eternity, I
have done a work for them in the Logan
Temple. I knew this was their wish, I have
also officiated there for my own relatives.
	June 20, we bade farewell to our dear friends
in San Francisco. On the 18th of August
we arrived at home and found the family all
well. The crickets had been very troublesome
that season which made grain scarce and flour
very dear.
	Sept 11th 1856 Mr. Pratt bade adieu to his
home to go on the last mission he ever took in
this present life. He received great blessings
from Pres. Young and Pres. Kimball, but
still he appeared to doubt his safe return.
While on this mission he wrote his poem; my
fiftieth year. He had only been gone from
home seven months when his life was taken in
Van Buren, Arkansas May 13th, 1857. He
left nine widows and thirty children, fifteen
boys and fifteen girls. The most of those
children were very young and born within ten
years time after we came to Salt Lake.
	When I look back to those days, I wonder
how we got along as well as we did under
such trying circumstances, as we had nothing
to depend on but our labor. The next winter
Johnson's army came on and our boys were
out in Echo Cañon the most of the time. In
the spring we left our homes not knowing
that we should ever return to them again.
Our family and a number  of others spent
the summer in Provo. In the fall the word
came, "To your tents O Israel"! Then we
returned and were rejoiced to find things as
we had left them. Through the many lies
and exaggerated reports about the Saints that
had been driven to this wild region of the
mountains, through religious persecution and
mob violence the U. S. troops came here.
	This army was sent from the government to
wipe us all out of existence. To save tronble
and bloodshed, Brigham Young counseled all
the people to leave the city. They made the
sacrifice and all ended in peace. We have
been driven from onr homes, bereft of our
dear ones, suffered sickness, poverty and
hunger, we have been annoyed with insects,
the crickets, grasshoppers and worms,and with
all this, we have been sustained and greatly
blessed of the Lord.
	In 1857 we sold our old homestead and
divided the means and there was enough for
each one to get a home of her own. Since
then four of Mr. Pratt's wives have died, there
are five yet living, there are twenty-four
children; six having died, one hundred and
twenty-four grand children,and a great number 
of great grand children. I can testify Pres.
Kimball's words have come true in regard to
my being blessed with dreams, from that time
I have been comforted in my night visions.
After Mr. Pratt's death we had to struggle
along the best way we could, sometimes I
would feel almost discouraged, at such times
I would dream of Mr. Pratt and would think
that he was just returning from a mission, and
it would appear to me that he was not dead.
	My dead relatives often visited me in my
sleep, always reminding me to do a work for
them, they gave me no rest until I did.
	I was not much inclined to look at the

[Column 2]

dark side of a picture, although I had to pass
through many trying scenes.
	I married into polygamy and believed it to
be a divine principle, and those who enter into
it with this knowlddge and are faithful to its
requirements will inherit the same kingdom
and glory that Abraham does, the friend of
God and father of the faithful. I have tried
to keep pace with Church organizations, and
be faithful to its duties as required by its
members. I was a member of the first Relief
Society which was organized in the fourteenth
ward of this City. Sister Phebe W. Woodruff
was its president; we had good meetings and
we did considerable straw work, we made a
great many hats for both men and women,
many nice quilts and useful articles for the poor.
This socieiy was started before the Church
moved away from the city.
	I now testify that I know Joseph Smith was
a true prophet and this is the true Church of
Jesus Christ that should be set up in the last
days, spoken of by Daniel through the gift of
prophecy. Those who have held the presi-
dency have walked in the footsteps of their
file leaders and carried out the mind and will
of God in every respect, I will make mention
of the noble servants of their heavenly Father
Pres. Brigham Young who succeeded the
Prophet Joseph Smtih, he was the great
pioneer to the people's home in the west, he
gave counsel and assisted to build up and
improve the waste places, he did this by untir-
ing travel from place to place, encouraging the
people to make better their condition in life.
Pres. John Taylor gave himself as a sacrifice
for those principles that will never tarnish, nor
die, and his integrity will stand as a monument
to his name forever. Pres. Wilford Woodruff
is left to guide the Church and like the star of
Bethlehem' which if its members follow will
guide them to Jesus the great Redeemer,
"Peace on earth good will to mankind," and
while his life is preserved he will give us the
word of the Lord. When we read of the
ancient Saints going astray we are led to
marvel that they were so often tempted to stray
from the path of righteousness; or that the child-
ren of Israel should make a golden calf. But
when we examine ourselves in our day we are
too weak, like them we have too many idols
and so many weak points to overcome, it keeps
us busy watching ourselves. Yes and as we
often sing:

	"When through firery trials thy pathway shall lie
	My grace, all sufficient shall by thy supply,
	The flame shall not hurt thee I only design
	Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine.

Salt Lake City Dec. 9th 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIA.

If only in my dreams I may behold thee,
	Still hath the day a goal;
If only in my dreams I may enfold thee,
	Still hath the night a soul.
Leaden the hours may press upon my spirit,
	Nor one dear pledge redeem,—
I will not chide, so they at last inherit
	And crown me with the rapture of that dream.

Ten thousand blossoms earth's gay gardens cherish;
	One pale, pale rose is mine;
Of frost or blight the rest may quickly perish,—
	Not so that rose divine.
Deathless it blooms in quiet realms elysian;
	And when toil gives me rest,
Forgetful of all else, in blissful vision,
	I breathe my rose and clasp it to my breast!

Ex.		FLORENCE EARLE COATES.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Like tears that are shed o'er the coffin lid,
	And laid with the Old Year's dead,


Are some of the hopes that gladdened our hearts
	Ere the year on its mission had sped:
And we bury them deep in our inner souls
	Away from the world's gaze hid.

And the cherished hopes of the glad New Year
	Like June's buds half disclose;
We bind them in garlands around his brow,
	And wait for each full-blown rose;—
Patiently wait, yet whether for blight
	Or bloom,—God only knows!

Yet this we know;—if with courage true,
	And each duty nobly done,
Our record stands Heaven approved, and marks
	The setting of each day's sun,
Whether fortune shall smile or frown, at last,
	We are victors; --Life's battle won!

Ex.						ADA GIDDINGS-PARK.


LINES.

	[Written on the death of little Vernon Leo Potter, Dec.
14th 1890, by Mrs. Sarah J. Austin, and respectfully dedi-
cated to Brother and Sister Potter.]

	Cold is the brow as marble now,
		And still the balmy breath;
	The one we loved so well in life
		Lies beautiful in death.

	A little mound of sacred ground,
		Holds all on earth we loved;
	The spirit that entranced our own,
		With angels dwells above,

	But though he rests in earth's embrace
		His spirit dwells with God,
	And we must bow to His behest,
		And kiss the chast'ning rod.

	Look up dear friends our God is good
		He doeth nothing wrong,
	And you shall have your child again,
		Just as you laid him down.

	For Jesus in his mighty love,
		Came from the courts above;
	And died on Calvary's awful cross
		He died that we might live.

	Then let us strive to keep the laws,
		Which God to us has given;
	That we may meet our friends above,
		And dwell with them in heaven.


A CO-OPERATIVE SCHEME.

	Every now and then one hears of a new in-
stance of ingenuity on the part of the working
girls, more especially those who belong to clubs
and so get the benefit of contact with wise and
tactful women. Fourteen of Miss Grace H.
Dodge's club girls have lately gone into a very
pretty enterprise. They have established
themselves on a co-operative basis in the
manufacture of dainty baby clothes. A little
money has been put into the plan from out-
side. If the girls succeed and anything is
left above their wages the profits are to be
parted in three, one portion for the stock-
holders, one for the girls to be divided ac-
cording to their salaries, and one for an
emergency and enlargement fund. I do not
know of a pleasanter place in the city in
which to spend half an hour than the sunny
little workroom above the store, especially if
one happens in about 4 o'clock, when all the
wee smocked frocks and long robes are
dropped, while quaint blue and white cups and
saucers and the shiniest little kettle are pro-
duced, and everybody has a merry ten minutes
over afternoon tea. The girls take to their
work as gaily as if they regarded it as an end-
less succession of jolly sewing bees. They are
interested in their task,interested in one another
and interested and enthusiastic over their
novel scheme. They are about the only really
happy-looking sewing girls I have ever known.
Ex.
	ELIZABETH DUSTIN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CO OPERATIVE HOUSEKEEPING.

	Evanston, Ill., has just organized an im-
mense Co-operative Housekeeping Association
composed of two hundred and sixty-six mem-
bers, with Henry L. Graw, manager. The
central kitchen has been equipped with a com-
plete hotel apparatus, and has a capacity for
cooking three hundred orders.
	The bills of fare are sent around twenty-four
hours in advance of the meal ordered, and the
order blank at once returned. The meal is
prepared and closely packed in a huge dinner
pail, or tray with various compartments in it
for holding tin reservoirs. All these compart-
ments fit snugly in a hot water tray, where the
food will keep warm for an hour or more.
This huge dinner pail when packed is taken to
the wagon, which is fitted with racks for hold-
ing them securely, and with a team of fast
horses is conveyed to the homes of the people
who are members of this Association. The
price of meals is four dollars a week for adults
and half price for children under twelve.
	This Co-operative Housekeeping Association
is the only one of its kind in this country—an
Association where fifty families, at their own
table, will eat the same kind of food, cooked at
the same place, for the same price.
		Ex


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFF-
	RAGE ASSOCIATION.

	The twenty-third annual convention of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, D. C., in
Albaugh’s Opera House, Feb. 26—March 1,
1891.
	NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS.
	The National Couocil of Women will meet
in the same place the three preceding days.
There [--] thus be a double inducement to
visit Washington at this time, The reduced
railroad fares will extend from Feb, 19, to
March 3. The Riggs House will be the
headquarters of the Association, and will give
reduced rates to delegates and visitors to the
convention.
	Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Riggs House,
Washington, D. C., is committee on railroad
rates both for the Woman’s Council and for
Suffrage Convention. Those intending to be
present should write to her for information.
	Every auxiliary State society is entitled to
send three delegates, and one additional
delegate foreach hundred members.
	The first executive committee meeting will
be held at 3 o’clock P. M., Wednesday, Feb.
25.
	The Presidents of all State Woman Suff-
rage Associations auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. are once more reminded
of the necesity of sending the annual dues (ten
cents for each member of the State Society
and of its paid up local auxiliaries,) together
with the list of members, to the treasurer,
Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Riggs House, Wash-
ington, D. C.


MISS ANTHONY’S RECEPTION.

	The reception given in honor of Miss Susan
B. Anthony last evening by the Woman’s
Political club of this city was a tribute to a
noble woman who fully deserves, because she
has grandly earned, all the honors which her
fellow citizens of Rochester can heap upon her.
The ladies whose thankfulness provided this
testimonial to the virtues and services of their
distinguished fellow-worker had the cordial
sympathy of the men and women of Rochester
who appreciate sterling merit, the clearest com-
mon sense, entire disinterestedness and in-


defatigable energy. Rochester is proud of
Miss Anthony. Probably no other citizen of
this city is so widely known, and wherever she
is known she inspires only respect and esteem.
	Rochester, Dec. 16.


WHAT A LADY DOES NOT DO.

	There are several things always absent in a
a true lady, which girls will do well to notice
and remember.
	A lady, for example, will never ignore little
kindnesses; conclude in a crowd that she has a
right to push her way through; consume the
time of people who can ill spare it; talk loudly
in public places, wear on the street a dress
fitted only to the house or carriage; wear a
torn glove, when a needle and thread and a few
stitches would make it all right; fail in answer-
ing letters or returning visits unless she is ill
or in trouble. fret about the heat or the cold,
the sun or the rain, the air or lack of it;
make an engagement and then not be on time,
complain of her family, or discuss personal
affairs with strangers; always believe the worst
rather than the best side of a story.
	A lady does not do any other than make
the best of everything—the world, the weather
and herself. She believes in the golden rule,
and endeavors, as far as possible, to live up to
it. Ex


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Mary Walker, who was reported to be
dying is better.
	December 17th 1890 was the eighty-third
birthday of the beloved poet, Whittier.
	A Women’s Educational and Industrial
Union has just been formed at Watertown,
N.Y., making the fifth in the State.
	Mrs. Cleveland gave a Thanksgiving dinner
to eighty children belonging to the kinder-
garten of which she is vice-president.
	Nine hundred and ninety-two women regis-
tered in Cheyenne, Wy., for the recent elec-
tion. Several women rode twenty-six miles
into Cheyenne to vote.
	Henry Ward Beecher’s old house in Brook-
lyn has been turned into a boarding-house,
and his large library cut up by partitions into
bedrooms.
	With the new year, the Women’s Penny
Paper of London, which has met with rapid
growth and success, will change its name
to the Woman’s Herald.
	It is said of the two and one quarter million
members, that over two-thirds of the Methodist
church are women; and the proportion will
probably hold true in every evangelical body.
	Walt Whitman is putting the latter touches
to a volume called “Good-Bye, My Fancies,”
containing his old-age songlets, and intended
as a “second annex and completion” to “Leaves
of Grass.”
	The reception given by the citizens of
Rochester to Miss Susan B. Anthony on the
15th, was a pleasant affair, about 700 persons
attending. It was held in the Chamber of
Commerce rooms which were beautifully
decorated with flowers and the emblematic
color abounded everywhere.
	The seal for the State of Wyoming adopted
by the legislature is emblematic and peculiarly
felicitous. One of the figures is that of a wo-
man, from whose uplifted arm hangs a broken
chain, symbolizing the granting of political
rights to Wyoming women. The motto of the
State is “Equal Rights.”


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas,Sup
[Column 1 of the first portion]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2 of the first portion]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
[Only one column]
[image of UNION PACIFIC Shield]
Tickets 
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES,
			Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

