VOL. 19.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1890. NO. 9


CONTENTS. 
	Some of the Beauties of Nature,—Ida Hoag.
Aunt Lu’s Story. The Woman’s Congress.
Rural Letters,—Lula. The Fulfillment of Proph-
ecy,—Mary Ann M. Pratt. R. S. Reports,—St.
John’s—San Luis. Primary Associations of Utah
Stake. The Higher Education of Women,—
Mrs. Eddy. Notes and News. Obituaries. 
	Editorial:—Semi-Annual Conference. Offic-
ial Declaration. Editorial Notes. The Relief
Society Report. Letter From a Friend,—Mary S.
Burnham. A family Gathering,—A. C. W. Utah
Ter. W. S. A. Convention. Woman’s Rights,—
S.W. Richards.
Poetry:—Back to Other Days,— Lucy.
Autumnal Musings,—E. B. W.


For the Exponent:
BACK TO OTHER DAYS.

My thoughts go back to other days,	
	When thou wast but a child; 
A thing of sudden smiles and tears,
	Fair as a wood-flower and as wild
I see thy raven locks of hair.
	Thine eyes of the same midnight hue;.
Thy forehead like the lily fair,
	Thy lips like rose-buds bathed in dew.
It seemed that sorrow could not fling.
	One shadow o'er a heart like thine,
So like the early flowers of Spring,
	Born but for love and Summer time.
Thy girlhood came, oh what a dream!
	A fairy dream life seemed to thee,
As gazing down life's silvery stream,
	No rocks or quicksands could'st thou see.
Earth, seemed an Eden, and thine eye,
	Saw not the thorns, amid the flowers,
No cloud obscured the clear blue sky.
	No sorrow clogged the light-winged hours.
But now thy girlhood days have flown, 
	With noiseless footsteps they depart,
And years with many cares have thrown,
	Some shadows o’er thy trusting heart.
Life is not all the sunny vision, 
	That fancy in thy childhood drew,
Of fadeless flowers, of scenes Elysian,
	Of friends the faithful and the true.
The fairest rose has sharpest thorn,
	And thou hast learned the sadden’d story
That sorrow is of pleasure born,
	That clouds oft dim the sun’s bright glory,
Tho’ thy sunniest days are o’er, 
	The happiest, are thine I ween.
Far off on life's dim sounding shore,
	Bright forms of love and life are seen;
I would not mar one bright emotion,
	Of such a trusting heart as thine,
For well I know that heart's devotion,
	Is laid upon a worthy shrine.
Light glide thy barque adown life's sea,
	With earth's and heaven's rich treasures laden,
May every danger flee from thee,
	Till thou hast gained the eternal haven.
						LUCY.
Atchison Kan.


[Column 1]
SOME OF NATURE’S BEAUTIES

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	A few weeks ago returning from a trip up
one of our beautiful canyons the thought
occured to me, that a description of it even in
my weak way might prove interesting to 
you. 
[Column 2]
	While sitting by the camp-fire or taking
lonely strolls farther up the mountain road,
my thoughts would most invariably turn to
you, and a sigh of regret would come from
the heart that you were not with me to enjoy
all the beautiful grandeur, spread out before
me.  Words would be inadequate to describe
the splendor on which my eyes feasted turn
which way they would, but the attempt at
description is a pleasure as one in a measure
lives over and enjoys again the scenes that so
truly fascinated them.
	I would sit at camp musing and dreaming
or perhaps taking lonely strolls around the
winding canyon road, now and then a new
place of beauty would burst upon my view, at
such times the words of the poet were recalled
to mind.
	"Ever changing ever new
	  When will the landscape tire the view"
	During one of these strolls, I was suddenly
confronted with a scene so glorious and grand
that I do not think it will be easily blotted out
of my memory. In where there seemed to be
an opening between mountains was a large
dense grove of pine trees tall and stately, not
one dwarf pine could be seen. Underneath
there was a beautiful carpet of grass, not a
bush or stick to mar its rich smoothness. The
last rays of the setting sun cast just enough of
its radiance to lighten the border making the
depth within look all the more grand and
solemn. I stood for sometime entranced every-
thing seemed too grand and gloriously beauti-
ful to be real, I felt like pinching myself to
discover if all were a reality or was it only a
dream. However I retraced my steps to camp
with feelings of the most solemn and mysterious
nature.
	After sitting and chatting in the midst of a
merry group in front of which the camp-fire
shed its bright rays, a brisk canyon breeze
began to make itself felt, and my mind wan-
dered back to the old pine forest and a strong
desire took possession of me to return, which as
soon as practicable was acted upon and I again
found myself upon the spot that had so
strangely interested me
	If the scene was beautiful at sunset it was
doubly so by moonlight. Oh, dear sister that
one might always have language to express the
pure holy sentiments of the heart an such mo-
ments.
	A wan, pale moon was shedding its spectral
light, which together with the moaning, wailing
aud howling of the wind caused a shudder to
pass over me.
	As I gazed upon this gloomy grand looking
place and listened to the wild weird music,
fascinating, yet awful in its solemn loneliness,
it was with great reluctance that I again re-
traced my steps.
	The walk back proved to be equally fasci-
nating although of another type of beauty.
The pretty sparkling brook running along the
roadside, each bank containing such an in-
numerable variety of sweet wild flowers, the
majestic mountains towering so high above me
formed a scene long to be remembered and im
pressed me with the spirit of awe and solemnity.
We did not tarry long however as it was grow-
ing late.
	The next day we returned home with many
feelings of regret at leaving the many pleasant
places we had become familiar with. 
	But I must say something of our pretty

[Column 3]
Woodland home which is noted for its sweet-
ness and simplicity of its scenery: our little
valley is indeed beautiful. Dame Nature has
donned her exquisite coloring of rich Autumnal
tints.
	Standing on what is called Kamas bench and
looking ou the valley beneath through which
flows the pretty winding Provo river, which can
be seen now and then through an opening of
some brush or trees,the long sweeping meadows
dotted in clusters of fall flowers,the neat comfort
able homes to be seen here and there,all unite to
form a beautiful landscape pleasing to the eye
and gratifying to the lover of nature.
	The citizens of Woodland are industrious
and I believe happy. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies Association and Primary are
progressing. The officers and members of
each association are seemingly united and
working diligently for one purpose that of the
upbuilding of the Church and kingdom of
God.
	Trusting that I have not wearied you by an 
overflow of sentiment and believing in your
intense love of the beautiful in nature,
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel of peace
and Salvation.
						IDA HOAG.


AUNT LU’S STORY.

	And now I must tell you something of the
Alby’s,—of Robert’s parents, who started their
life soon after their marriage in a log-cabin of
two rooms in the back woods of Maine (New 
England) a small settlement of lumber-men,
woodchoppers, hunters, fishermen etc. In this 
place all their six children were born, and
from it, four of them, who had only walked a
little way in earth-life, were transported into a
higher school in spirit realms, Lois, their re-
maining daughter developed into beautiful
womanhood, married at the age of nineteen,
shortly before her father's death, and removed
with her husband (an excellent worthy man
of high position and wealth, who made all the
gifts bestowed so bountifully upon him a 
blessing  to others,) to Augusta the Capital of
the state. Previous to the event of their
daughter’s marriage Mr. Alby had become a
wealthy prosperous lumber-merchant, had built
a large commodious house with the expecta-
tion of living in easy comfort to a good old
age, but death came (when but a little past
middle life) swift and sudden in a red bolt of
flame from heaven, leaving hearts wounded
and torn with grief, to receive a fresh anoint-
ing for a future blessing.
	Robert the only son, possessed a deep earnest
nature, and a wild love of adventure; he mani-
fested this characteristic in early life by fre-
quent escapades from school, the common rou-
tine of which had few attractions for him al-
though quick to learn, and never dull; his
good humor and qualities of heart made him a
favorite with teachers and comrades. Nothing
delighted him so much when a small lad, as to be
allowed to go with his father on a hunting or
fishing excursion, and listen to wonderful tales 
of hair-breadth escapes from wild beasts,
Indians, &c., and long before he was in his
'teens, he had inwardly resolved to lead a back
wood’s life, and like the little boy who planted
his feet in the earth to grow tall he tried to
harden and accustom himself to such a life,
looking daily forward for the happy time when


[Column 1]
﻿he could go forth armed and equipped as
hunter and trapper. He would often refuse
food when hungry and go an entire day with-
out, sleeping on the hard barn floor, on logs or
rocks and a favorite place was on a mossy rock
back of their cattle shed.—Thus he became a
perfect enigma, a puzzle hard to solve or de-
fine, by either his own family or others, while
to his comrades, he was a perfect Nimrod, and
after an event, by witich he saved the life of
one of them, by shooting a catamount as it
sprang down upon him from a high ledge of
rock, he was by universal consent crowned a
veritable hero! the story oft repeated, with
thrilling variations, won for him quite a local
fame.
	Robert was blest with a sound elastic consti-
tution, patient and cheerful under privation,
indefatigable in research and indomitable in
endurance, overflowing with energy and en-
thusiasm. It was very easy for him to persuade
his mother to sell the homestead and other
property, put it into money and go with him
to the "Far West,” to find his beloved
ideal of a hunting ground.
	Indeed, I do not think it would have been
a hard matter for him to have prevailed upon
her to go with him into the uttermost parts of
the earth; so exceedingly great was her love
and faith in this her only son. But Robert
was too considerate to take his mother into an
entire wilderness of country. It was therefore
arranged after a visit to Augusta through the
winter, to go on together to a town near the
Mississippi River where she could be sur-
rounded by home comforts, and at a convenient
distance for him to come to see her sometimes,
until he had a suitable place of abode prepared
for her. It was three years before Robert felt
justified in removing his much loved mother to
this new home in the wilderness, fifteen miles
to the nearest trading post, and until about
that time, forty miles to U. S. P. O.
	The Scotchman who went from Maine, with
them, took a claim of Government land ad-
joining Robert’s and erected his cabin as near
as possible to be neighbors, as well as for pro-
tection against invaders etc. Mrs. Douglas also re
mained at the same place with Robert’s mother,
these men with their colored servants were all
the inhabitants of the place while preparing for
the dear ones waiting.
	Now it came to pass while they were tarrying
in anticipation of a home in the wildnerness
(in the then "Far West) that they were both
invited to attend a religious meeting to be held
at the house of a relative by whom they re-
ceived the invitation to attend. Mrs. Alby
accepted the invitation joyfully without any
curiosity regarding sect or creed, she was raised
in a Christian home and dedicated to the Lord
in infancy by her parents, and although her
privileges had been few for attending religious
worship, during her early married life, she had
sought to live the life of a true follower of
Christ, the Savior of mankind; not so with
Mrs. Douglas, "she was a staunch Presbyterian
and must be informed of the denominational
name.” She therefore declined the invitation
as the name of the sect was not given.
	The meeting proved to be very inspiring;
new ideas of ancient prophecy and of Latter-
day glory were opened up before the minds of
the hearers, and many hearts were stirred with-
in them to seek and learn more of this new
doctrine, and among them none were more in-
terested than Mrs. Alby. At the close of the
meeting notice was given that on Christmas
day a sermon would be preached (and other
services held) at an appointed place at which
two Elders (mentioned) would be present; on
the evening previous a friend was sent to warn
them that several opposers had plotted to dis
turb the proposed meeting, to injure these
preachers and perhaps take their lives. For
a few moments they knelt in silent prayer, then

[Column 2]
thanking their friend for so kindly warning
them they assured him that they could not,
and dare not withdraw from their engagement
to preach on the morrow. "We are impressed,”
said they, "that our Lord has some wonderful
work to perform by this means, and though
Satan is abroad stirring up the hearts of the
people against it, we will not shrink from
danger, for He, whom we serve will preserve
us, if it is for His honor and glory.” They
then bade their friend, to be of good cheer,
saying, "we will go in the name of the Most
High, expecting His presence and blessing.”
	The sermon was preached at the appointed
time and place, several were filled with the
spirit of prophecy, many spoke in tongues, and
one hymn was sung by a young woman in a
voice of angelic sweetness and purity, when to
the astonishment of all, who knew Mrs. Alby,
she arose, her face radiant and shining with
exceeding brightness, and interpreted both the
language spoken and sung, in such a manner
as to show forth the power of the living God.
Would that I could give from memory all the
words as interpreted,and convey to your minds
the beautiful pictured scene given by one, and
interpreted by Mrs. Alby, of over eighteen
hundred years ago, when a company of
shepherds’ were "keeping the silent watches of
the night on the plains of Palestine.” When
startled by a celestial glory that shone round
and about them, they looked up in wonder and
amazement and saw a bright and glorious
angel poised on golden pinions and heard the
announcement that the Messiah had come.
And suddenly the brightness of the glory was
increased and the heavenly effulgence dazzled
mortal vision, while a multitude of the angelic
host, the choir of the great Church above, with
songs of praise to the Omnipotent Jehovah
accompanied by the melody, swelled, vibrated
and rolled on and on, through the vast cathe-
dral of the boundless Universe.
	Another spoke of "the mystery of heaven”
of its joy and freedom from all evil. All the
services were trebly calculated to strike
profoundest awe into the human mind, and to
teach man his littleness as in the presence of
Jehovah, the great “I Am!” Most joyfully
some, and thoughtfully all dispersed while the
Elders went their lodgings where a sumptous
Christmas dinner was prepared  and where a
young couple were in waiting to have the
marriage ceremony performed. All passed off
quietly and pleasantly, many saying "This is
the happiest Christmas day they ever knew,”
when suddenly they were startled by a knock
at the front door; they thought in their hearts,
“enemies have come;” reluctantly the door was
opened by a man in attendance, there stood
two tall, broad-shouldered, muscular  men
muffled so that only a small portion of their
faces could be seen. They said “we wish to
see the Elders” their voices were recognized by
several of the household. The bride who had
just been united (to the man of her choice was
a niece of one of them, and both were well
aware of his hatred of the “Mormons” and of
his bitter opposition to their union; they
trembled with fear and alarm at the sound of
his voice, but were soon happily assured as
advancing forward they said,“we have not come
to disturb any one,” they then took from under
their coats the missives which they had secreted
upon thpir persons and with which, as they
said to the Elders, “we had intended to have
finished your preaching.” One carried a large
hickory club and heavy stone, the other a large
knife and murderous looking pistol. “Yes
said they, we had planned to destroy you, and
take the consequences when we went to the
meeting, but you talked as if you knew all
about it, and your words were so strange, we
felt as though you were looking through us,
and that an Almighty power was in that place.”
Both held out their hands to the Elders, say-

[Column 3]
ing, "O, sirs! forgive us, and may God in
mercy forgive, for in our blind rage we had
forgotten Him, or that He would hold us ac-
countable, we now believe that you are true
men, servants of God, and not imposters as we
had thought.” They clasped hands with heart-
felt emotion and sincere forgiveness and assur-
ance of God’s forgiving mercy to the penitent.
Then for a few moments (by request of the
Elders,) all present,knelt in prayer, from which
these men arose subdued and humbled, both
acknowledging "that it was the first time that
they had knelt in prayer since they were
children, and taught to say the Lord’s prayer
at their mother’s knee, and repeat little prayers
in verse, nor had they for a score of years at-
tended any religious worship and all this time
had been scoffers and unbelievers in all things
Divine.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS, 
	
	The Association for the Advancment of
Women will hold its eighteenth annual 
congress in Toronto, Canada,on the 15th, 16th
and 17th of October, by invitation of the 
Mayor and City Council. Executive sessions
at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
At evening sessions an admittance fee of 
twenty-five cents will be charged. A con-
ference of officers only will be held on Oct. 14,
at 7.30 p. m.
	Toronto is preparing a royal welcome for
the Woman's Congress. On the 20th ult:, a
number of ladies and gentlemen met in the
Council Chamber at the City Hall to arrange
for its reception. A large executive committee
was appointed to take charge of the arrange-
ments. Special committees were appointed on 
reception, on hotels and billeting, on rooms 
and decorations, on the press, on finance and
on railroads. The Toronto Mail says:
	"From the deep interest manifested by those present
concerning the object of the meeting, there is no doubt
that the coming of the association and the discussions to
take place will be the leading event of the fall's gather-
ings this year in the city."
	The topics and speakers for this year will be
as follows:

	"Woman in the State,"
					Miss Mary F. Eastman, Mass.
	"Practical Value of Philosophy,"
			Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Rhode Island.
	"Working Girls' Club.
				Mrs. Helen Campbell, New Jersey.
	"More Pedagogy in Universities and Normal Schools,"
					Mrs. Mary E. Bundy, Illinois.
	"The Gain and Loss to America of Protracted Art
Study Abroad,"
				Miss Sarah Wool Moore, Nebraska.
"The Scientific Work and Influence of Dr. Maria
		Mitchell,"
					Prof. Mary W. Whiting N. Y.
"Woman and the Forum,"
				Mrs. Martha Strickland, Michigan.
"Special Legislation or Moral Energy,"
				Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells, Mass.
"Women in Ancient Egypt,"
	Miss Georgia Louise Leonard, Washington D. C.
"Scientific Training for Mothers"
				Mrs. Frances Fisher Wood Mass.
"Study of American History,"
					Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods, Mass.
"The Colored Women of the South"'
		Mrs. Elizabeth H. Botume; South Carolina.
"A Paper on Ibsen's Plays,"
					Mrs. Ellen M. Mitchell, Colorado. 
	This is the first time the A. A. W. has
held its annual meeting outside the limits of
the United States. It promises to be a very
interesting and pleasant occassion.


The Woman’s Club of Leipsic lately held
an elaborate celebration on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of its formation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUTUMNAL MUSINGS.

In the soft September gloaming,
All my fancies set to roaming,
	Over hill and dale and mountain;
And	 I felt the mellowed splendor,
Of the twilight faint and tender,
	And I heard the rippling fountain,
With the music of its measure,
As it leaped and sung for pleasure,
	Filling all the air with gladness;
And its songs from tuneful voices,
Songs in which the world rejoices,
	Soothed my soul with tearful sadness.
In my garden full of sweetness;	
At the evening’s rich completeness,
	While the stars their watch were keeping;
Came the muse of which afore time,
I had dreamed throughout the nightime,
	And she found me pale and weeping.
In a dainty, plaintive fashion,
Breathing forth both love and passion,
	Came this fairy-footed maiden,— 
Sweeping 'cross the starlit meadow,
Gray and quiet, as a shadow
	Yet with human hopes o'erladen.
And the Autumn boughs were sighing,
And the scarlet leaves were dying,
	Like lost hopes, which they betoken.
Oh, ye fragrant buds and blossoms,
Gathered closely to our bosoms !
	Here ye lie, all crushed and broken.
And we know not if the morrow
Shall bring promis’d joy or sorrow
	For the love that's past revealing;
That lies quiv’ring, aching, sobbing,
Every nerve and pulse, keen throbbing,
	And its bitterness concealing.
Quoth the muse. Love never faileth,
Though the human heart bewaileth
	Idols broken, fragments scattered!
They were only true in seeming,
And ye worshipped them while dreaming,
	But on waking,find them shattered.
Still the memory of those hours,
That we passed in Eden’s bowers,
	When our hearts and hopes were lightest,—
Are around our pathway clinging, 
And a thousand voices singing
	Of the promises grown brightest.
The delicious days of Autumn,
With the winds, so weird and solemn,
	Bring the fondest recollections;
Of the music which was sweetest, 
Of the happiness completest,
	And the tenderest affections.
The harpstrings may be shattered,
And the rose-leaves may be scatter'd
	But the mem’ry still remaineth;
And the love that we have cheris'd,
And the hope that we have nourish’d
	The immortal soul retaineth.
E. B. W.


RURAL LETTERS
	No. 2.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	The last Exponent has just dropped from
my hand. there are still a few moments left
me, before I must return to my domestic
duties. I seize my pen vigorously determined
to exchange a few words of kindly greeting
with those dear friends who write for and read
our little paper. For. shall I receive good at
their hand and offer nothing in return?
	I had a pleasant call today from "Zimmri,"
of the Logan Journal. He was a friend of my
father's twenty years ago; for this reason and
because of his intellectual, literary and re-


ligious inclinations, he is an occasional and
welcome visitor in our rural home. He is
also, I believe, the best and most extensive
florist in this settlement. That beautiful
blush rose in the window near which I write,
which fills the air with its delicate and de-
licious perfume, was his offering of friendship
to me today.
	Now I must stop writing, and help my six
year old son to count the paper money he has
clipped from an advertising sheet, and is
puzzling over, unable to decide whether this
is meant for a nickle or a five dollar gold
piece, and if that is a silver quarter or a gold
ten.
	Ah! my sisters, you who have cherubs of
your own, know that their wants must be at-
tended to, their questions answered, their minds
directed, now while they are with us for neglect
of our duties to them, when like clinging vines
they twine around us, looking up to us as all
sufficient to supply their every want, means
sorrow and bitterness of heart for us in the
future, when because of such neglect they will
surely drift away, out of our reach.
	Here is Willie. my "farmer boy;" see how
well he has learned to ride this summer. That
pretty bay horse upon which he sits so gal-
lantly, is a great pet with us. He will let all
the children ride at once, if they can all get
on; and stop perfectly still, if, in their scramb-
ling, one drops off. He likes the buggy too,
and therein my great comfort with him is
taken.
	One morning, I felt quite homesick and
lonesome, when my children struck up a lively
cheering song. I joined in their singing, and
in my heart thanked God for the blessed gift
of song and music, which will chase gloom
away if any thing can.
	Presuming that you have received from the
Secretary, an account of the Woman Suffrage
meeting, lately held at Logan, I will not take
up time or space in writing about it here, ex-
cept to state that I had the pleasure of being
present; and considered the occasion a very
interesting one.
	The district school has opened here with a
very competent Principal, two able assistants,
and I should judge, about one hundred and
fifty children. The weather is fine, and every
one seems to be in the full enjoyment of health
and happiness just at present.
	Crops are generally light in this vicinity, so
I am informed, compared with last year’s.
	Mother objects to the name Smithfield, as it
reminds her of the place known by the same
name in England, where so many religious
martyrs were burned. So, to gratify her feel-
ings, I have agreed to call it, as it used some-
times to be called year’s ago,
	Summit, Cache Valley, September, 1890.
									LULA.


[Column 1]

THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHESY.

	II. Peter 1 Ch. 20 vr. "knowing this first
that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any
private interpretation."
	21 vr. "For the prophecy came not in old
time by the will of man; but holy men of God
spake as they were moved upon by the Holy
Ghost."
	I was led to write on this subject, by hear-
ing one express his views as not being a be-
liever in anything that been predicted having
come to pass; said he, there might have been
such a man as Christ and what He said was
not very definite; he also alluded to Bible
prophecy said there were no dates given to lead
one to suppose that things came to pass; but
that they happened promiscuously.
	There is no subject of so much interest to
me as the fulfillment of prophecy. And it
surely must be, to all those, who believe in
Sacred history, that is the word of God, and

[Column 2]
written by revelation. The Savior said when
He answered His disciples concerning those
things which should take place, that He told
them about at jerusalem, His language was
plain and definite, that the City should be
destroyed and the Temple; not one stone should
be left on another, and the Jews should be
scattered among all nations, and they should
see Him no more, until they should say
"blessed is He that cometh in the name of the
Lord." All these things took place as He
said; then He spoke of His coming and gave
them the signs; that nation should rise against
nation, and kingdom against kingdom; men's
hearts should fail them; this would come as a
snare on them that dwell on the earth. This
prediction is yet to take place. "Heaven and
earth shall pass away; but My words shall not
pass away."
	There never was a truer fulfillment of
prophecy than was spoken to the Jewish
nation, and also to the Israelites, every word
spoken to them of the Lord by His prophets
was literally fulfilled. Everything that was
predicted of the Savior before His birth was
fulfilled to the very letter. But of His second
coming which has not taken place, He does
not given the day nor the hour, but the earth
will not stand in its present state only 6,000
years, at the beginning of the 7,000 a great
change will come, there will be a millennial
rest for the people of God, and Christ will
dwell on the earth and it will be like the
garden of Eden; all will be at peace. "The
lamb and the lion will lie down together; and
nothing shall hurt nor destroy in all My holy
mountain saith the Lord." And now con-
cerning the prophecy of a modern prophet
Joseph Smith. Revelation and prophecy given
through Joseph the Seer, on war. Given Dec.
25th, 1832. "Verily, thus saith the Lord con-
cerning the wars that will shortly come to
pass, beginning at the rebellion of South
Carolina, which will eventually terminate in
the death and misery of many souls." 2 vs.
The days will come that war will be poured
out upon all nations beginning at that place."
Section 87. This war actually took place be-
tween the North and South, and as sure as
this took place, the others will among all
nations. The Prophet Joseph said in his
history, "I have asked of the Lord concerning
His coming and while asking the Lord, He
gave me a sign and and said, 'In the days of
Noah I set a bow in the heavens as a sign
and token that in any year that the bow should
be seen the Lord would not come; but there
should be seed time and harvest during that
year, but whenever you see the bow withdrawn
it shall be a token that there shall be famine,
pestilence, and great distress among the
nations, and that the coming of the Messiah is
not far distant. This is one sign of the
heavens given to a modern prophet that we
may note. I know many things he uttered
that have come to pass and many more that
will, because they were the Lord's words and
I bear my testimony that he was a true prophet
of the Lord, and was called by Him to pro-
claim the Gospel of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Sept. 22, Salt Lake City.


Miss Amye Reade's novel, "Ruby," is
already in its tenth thousand. Among those
who have expressed approval and admiration
of the book are Lord Tennyson and Cardinal
Manning.

	Mrs. Willing says, a propos of the discussion
on the admission of women to the Methodist
General Conference: "Miriam was in the
General Conference of God's Church, for it is
said: "He led the people forth by Moses,Aaron,
and Miriam.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy per year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1890.


[column 1]
		SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	During the morning exercises of October 6, the
third day of the semi-annual Conference of the
Church, after the Authorities of the Church had
been sustained by unanimous vote, President
Woodruff proposed having the Articles of Faith
read, and Bishop O. F. Whitney was called upon
and read them to the congregation; after the
reading,
		APOSTLE FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Said: Beloved brethren and sisters. I move
that we, as members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in General Conference
assembled, do accept and adopt these Articles of
Faith which Bishop Whitney has now read as
the rule of our faith and of our conduct during
our mortal lives.
	It may be thought that it is superfluous to
offer it; but it must be borne in mind that we
have a rising generation since this was last pre-
sented to us, that are coming to years of judg-
ment and understanding; and we wish to have
all, old and young, rich and poor, bond and free,
that have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in
these articles to have a chance to express it by
their vote, if they wish.
	The vote to sustain Brother Richard's motion
was unanimous.
		PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CONNON.
Said: President Woodruff, as doubtless the
members of the Conference are aware, has felt
himself called upon to issue a manifesto con-
cerning certain things connected with our affairs
in this Territory, and he is desirous to have this
submitted to this conference; to have their views
or their expressions concerning it, and Bishop
Whitney will read this document now in your
hearing.	
	Following is the manifesto as read:
		OFFICIAL DECLARATION.

To whom it May Concern:
	Press dispatches having been sent for political
purposes, from Salt Lake City, which have been
widely published, to the effect that the Utah
Commission, in their recent report to the Secre-
tary of the Interior, allege that plural marriages
are still being solemnized and that forty or more
such marriages have been contracted since last
June or during the past year; also that in public
discourses the leaders of the Church have taught
encouraged and urged the continuance of the
practice of polygamy;
	I, therefore, as President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, do hereby, in
the most solemn manner, declare that these
charges are false. We are not teaching polygamy
or plural marriage, nor permitting any person to
enter into its practice, and I deny that either forty
[column 2]
or any other number of plural marriages have
during that period been solemnized in our temples
or in any other place in the Territory.
	One case has been reported, in which the
parties alleged that the marriage was performed
in the Endowment House, in Salt Lake City, in
the spring of 1889, but I have not been able to
learn who performed the ceremony; whatever
was done in this matter was without my knowl-
edge. In consequence of this alleged occurrence
the Endowment House was, by my instructions,
taken down without delay.
	Inasmuch as laws have been enacted by Con-
gress forbidding plural marriages, which laws
have been pronounced constitutional by the court
of last resort, I hereby declare my intention to
submit to those laws, and to use my influence with
the members of the Church over which I preside
to have them do likewise.
	There is nothing in my teachings to the Church
or in those of my associates, during the time
specified, which can reasonably be construed to
inculcate or encourage polygamy, and when any
Elder of the Church has used language wh ch
appeared to convey such teaching he has been
promptly reproved. And I now publicly declare
that my advice to the Latter-day Saints is to re-
frain from contracting any marriage forbidden by
the law of the land.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	President Lorenzo Snow offered the follow-
ing:
	I move that, recognizing Wilford Woodruff as
the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints, and the only man on the earth
at the present time who holds the keys of the
sealing ordinances, we consider him fully autho-
rized by virtue of his position to issue the mani-
festo which has been read in our hearing and
which is dated September 24th, 1890, and that as
a Church in General Conference assembled, we
accept his declaration concerning plural mar-
riages as authoritative and binding."
	The vote to sustain the foregoing motion was
unanimous.
		PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON
Spoke in reference to the manifesto, giving the
reasons for its having been issued by President
Woodruff. His discourse will be published in
full in the Deseret News.
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.
Who had been deeply affected during the presen-
tation of, and action upon the official declaration,
also expressed himself on the same subject. His
remarks were published in the Deseret News
Saturday Oct. 11.
	This Conference which was one of great sig-
nificance and of vast importance to the Latter-day
Saints, will long be remembered by the as-
sembled multitude,it was adjourned Monday after-
noon until April 1891.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in Salt
Lake City, Oct. 7 1890. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
presiding. There was a forenoon and afternoon
session, and a large congregation almost entirely
women assembled. Reports were heard from the
sisters who preside over the Relief Society in the
several Stakes of Zion, and the meeting was also
addressed by President Zina D. H. Young who
has only recently returned from a visit to Canada
also her Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, the
Secretary Sarah M. Kimball, and Pres. M. Isa-
bella Horne, Minutes of the Conference will be
published in our next issue.


The first Annual Conference of the Primary
Associations was held in the Assembly Hall in
this City Sunday evening Oct. 5, 1890 commenc-
ing at 7.30. Mrs. Louie B. Felt presiding. Her
Counselors Lillie T. Freeze and Clara C. Cannon
were both present. The house was crowded to
overflowing with brethren and sisters. The
teaching was such as would instruct both old and
young. The speakers were Pres. Louie B. Felt,
Coun. Lillie T. Freeze, Pres. Z. D. H. Young,
Sister E. B. Wells. Report from Cache Stake
P. A. by Sister Jane E. Molen and from Utah
Stake P. A. Sister Sarah E. Cluff. Sister Cornelia
H. Clayton offered her resignation as Secretary
which was accepted, and Miss May Anderson
chosen to fill the vacancy. The meeting was an
interesting one throughout, and must be a source
of great satisfaction to those who are laboring so
diligently for the children of Zion to feel that the
work is gaining ground.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

	The totals of the 32 Stake organizations of the
Relief Society statistical and financial are as fol-
lows:
	Statistical: members 16,741, meetings held the
last six months, 3,095, average attendance, 5,044,
No. of branches 368.
	Financial: Cash on hand at date of last re-
port, $10,890,05. Property on hand at date of last
report, 18,616,81. Real Estate, 50,834.61. Wheat
bushels 40,172. Cash to purchase wheat, $,1,
478,73.
	Cash received during the last six months, $5,-
980,14. Property, 3,241,63. Wheat bushels, 660.
Cash to purchase wheat, $117,87. Profit on labor
during the last six months, 576,17.
	Disbursements. Cash devoted to Charitable
Purposes, $4,112,20. Property to Charitable pur-
poses, 2,568,67. To Emigration in cash $120,16.
To Temple $215,80. Property to Temple, $30.25.
Deseret Hospital cash, $223,00, Property 3,90.
Home Industries. Cash, $517,54. Property 222,-
47. Books, Cash $102.77. Building, Cash, $987,-
56. Property to building 659,48.
	Cash on hand to date, $11,246,24. Property on
hand, 18,265,23. Real Estate, $50,334,61. Wheat
Bushels, 41,148. Cash to purchase wheat, $1,
596,60.	In addition to the above report there is re-
ported in Salt Lake Stake, 900 lbs flour, Tooele
Stake, sheep, 100 head, Sevier Stake, 53 head.
Weber Stake, beans, 38 lbs, Davis Stake Co-op
Store $25.00.


LETTER FROM A FRIEND.

Olio, New Mexico,
					Sept. 27, 1890.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have not forgotten you and the promise to
write now and then, yet I find on reflection that
months have passed since my last effort to collect
a few scattered ideas for “Our Paper.’' I believe
the few sisters of this place are still working in
good faith trying to keep alive to the spirit of the
times, but it is an uphill road where there is so
little material to work with.
	Our Society had a pleasant reunion on the 12 of
July and a few of the leading brethren and sisters
of the Stake came to visit and attend the meet-
ings. The Primary also held their annual meet-
ing, and I understand all had a time of enjoyment-
I was very sick at the time but had the privilege
of seeing the brethren and sisters at my home
which was a great blessing to me. While being
administered to the second day of my illness I
was caused very peculiar feelings by the strange
prayer that was offered, the burden of it seemed
that I must exercise great patience as well a
aith if I wished to recover. At the time I could


not understand, yet there was a feeling of dread
came over me but how fully I learned its mean-
ing in the weeks of suffering that followed, and I
learned in that time of trial to plead for patience
more than in all my life before. The  "other
shore" seemed right within my reach, and oh, how
sweet to go, but the sad cries of my children
would ring in my ears and my duty to them made
me cling to life and beg of my Father to spare
mine, if it could be His will and I can testify to
God's great goodness and mercy and it is only
through this that my little ones have a mother.
I am still weak and with a terrible disease prey-
ing upon my system, the future on earth looks
shadowy and I can only pray that I may be
worthy to enjoy the home prepared for the faithful
and true when the end shall come. My heart is
lonely indeed since the death of my frail baby
Tillie. She died of heart disease the 1st of Sept.
aged 11 months and 6 days and though I bow to
God's will and feel to thank Him that my
darling no longer suffers, her place will be
vacant in heart and home until she is laid within
my arms again. God bless you dear sister and
all our noble women in Zion, is the prayer of,
					MARY S. BURNHAM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FAMILY GATHERING.
	
	Our worthy postmaster Brother John Pym was
honored Sunday 14th with a family gathering at
his residence in St. George, in honor of his 75th
birthday.
	Brother Pym was one of the first settlers of St.
George; his kindness of heart is well known to
every one in the community, and willingness to
oblige any one in need; his uprightness and integ-
rity cannot be excelled, he is especially kind to the
aged and widows.
	Sister Donnell his wife’s mother, who is well
and favorably known to the Elders who have been
in Scotland, for her kindness and generosity, and
who we do not doubt would likely be pleased to
hear that she is remarkably well; and her mind
clear and bright in regard to the Gospel.
	She was also surprised on her 90th birthday
by her children and grandchildren with a very
nice supper and many tokens of love and esteem.
	Brother Pym has been a faithful worker in the
St. George Temple from its commencement. May
his life be long spared is the wish of his friends
who are legion.
								A. C. W.
Sept. 19, 1890.


UTAH TER. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	An Executive Session was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Oct. 3, at 10 a. m. The Hall was
very beautifully decorated for the occasion with
flowers and vines, and the stands were artistically
draped with the National stars and stripes by Dr.
E. S. Barney.
	Pres. S. M. Kimball expressed her pleasure at
seeing so many representative woman present,
and desired the co-operation of all the auxiliary
branches in the selection of officers and in the
transaction of business.
	The expediency of changing the time of hold-
ing the Territorial Annual Convention was dis-
cussed, Emily Richards moved that the time be
changed from January to October the motion was
unanimously carried.
	Utah Co. W. S. A. was reported by Johanna
Patten; Millard Co. by M. A. Y. Greenhalch;
Davis Co. by Lucy A. Clark; Wasatch Co. was
represented by letter, Mrs. S. S. Boyer repre-
sented the Springville branch.
	The officers of the territorial board were re-
elected, Sarah M. Kimball Pres. Emily S.
Richards, 1st. Vice Pres. Ann D. Groesbeck 2nd
Vice Pres. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd Vice Pres. Ada
[Column 2]
Croxall Sec., Julia Taylor Cor. Sec.; Treasurer
Margie Dwyer, Chairman Executive Committee,
Phebe Y. Beatie, members Ex. Com. Nellie Little
and Margaret Mitchell. Pres. Kimball explained
that each auxiliary branch President was by virtue
of her office a member of the Ter. Executive
board and were expected to share in the labors
deliberations and responsibilities of said board.
	The following Publishing Com. were elected
for the ensuing year, Emmeline B. Wells, Lula
Greene Richards, Romania B. Pratt. Nominations
were made for Delegates, other subjects discussed
and the Convention adjourned.

	In the afternoon of Friday Oct. 3, 1890, the W.
S. A. of Utah met in a Ter. Convention. Pres.
S. M. Kimball presiding. Prayer by Mrs. M. I.
Horne. Minutes read and accepted. Treasurer's
report read. The names of the Territorial officers
for the ensuing year as chosen in Executive ses-
sion were presented and voted upon. Pres. S.
M. Kimball gave an address of welcome and
made some suggestive remarks.
	Mrs. E. J. Mc'Farlane addressed the assembly
upon the "Political Rights of Woman."
ADVANTAGES OF POLITICAL EDUCATION FOR
WOMEN.
SUSA Y. GATES.
	Few if any of the ladies here present would
deny that it will be a great advantage to any wo-
man to understand the laws of her own and of
other countries. There are many forms of national
government, but certain broad principles under-
lie them all. This little paper will not deal with
government and its modifications, but treat in an
informal way upon the advantages which will
accrue to the woman who sets herself to master
the study of political economy.
	It is a generally accepted fact that all the knowl-
edge and intelligence we can acquire in this life
will be so much capital to us in our next stage of
existence. If our chief knowledge is embraced
in the fit of a polonaise or the last crochet pattern
we will certainly not expect to take our place be-
side our husband as his equal and his assistant in
the formation and control of kingdoms and
worlds. No, we shall find ourselves obliged to
go down to the foot of some other life class and
re-learn the lessons we might so easily have ob-
tained while in this stage of existence. This is
a serious thought, a grave reflection. No paltry
excuses of expediency, or of too much time being
spent in the daily cares of life will soften, for us,
the unalterable fact that we have neglected the
better part of life, our souls have been absorbed
in the meaner and lesser duties of every day.
Just what can be neglected, just where we may
cut off a few spare moments from the absorbing
worldly tasks is not in the province of this paper
to discuss. Assuming that every woman under
the sound of my voice resolves now, today, that
she will set aside a few moments of each day, an
hour or two each week, to improve her mind, to
enlarge her understanding, and to deepen the
capabilities within her, the question at once
arises, to what study shall those few precious
moments be devoted? Religion? The spare
hours of the peaceful Sabbath day should be all
devoted to sacred and religious studies instead of
to letter writing, or visiting and gossiping. To
science? or to Art? to Music, or to Literature?
All of these have their place, and each woman
should weekly devote a portion of her time to
some one beloved object and study. But every
woman should make an unalterable decision to
gain all the knwledge possible on the grand prin-
ciples of political economy. I am bold to say
that even in this life, two thirds of the govern-
ment of the human race, rests in the hands of the
mothers. How foolish would be the man who
aspired to the Presidental chair and was as yet
ignorant of the form of a Republican nation as
distinguished from a monarchy. Yet few, so very
[Column 3]
few women know aught of government except
old and useless sayings of long ago. One of the
greatest writers of modern times, Herbert Spencer,
wrote at length on the home and the education
of the children therein. One great man when
asked how he controlled so large and so varied
a people as was under his care, replied that he
taught correct principles and they governed them-
selves. What are correct principles? In what way
are they most effectively taught? How much may
the individual do? How far may self-indulgence
go before reaching the boundary line of unbridled
license? Which would be best and most effective
applied to home life, the imperial, the monarchial or
the republican form of government? All these
are questions which come within the province of
political economy, and all of which vitally con-
cern women.
	It is easier, pleasanter, and far more effective to
study in company with others than to toil and
struggle on alone. How fortunate, we will not
here say, inspirationally fortunate for us has been
the organizing of these W. S. A. They are
the right thing in the right time at the right place,
If the many are not prepared for them, have no
time for them, then as ever, the few will come in
and accept the light thus held out for us.
	In this beautiful Territory, it is solely the fault
of woman herself that she is ignorant of the laws
of political economy, is careless of her rights,
heedless of her opportunities. The legislature of
1870 made us equal with our brother, and that
body was subsequently specially careful to include
competent women in committees and on boards
where woman's wisdom would be appreciated.
No man with the spirit of enlightenment in him
will object to his wife uniting herself with this
movement. Indeed those noble men who have
so well earned our esteem and gratitude, the
leaders of this people, have given unqualified
approval to this movement. It remains then with
us as women to resolve that we will identify our-
selves with the W. S. A. and to make all neces-
sary sacrifice of time and means to become faith-
ful suffragists.

	Hon. F. S. Richards addressed the meeting.
The attendance here today reminded him of some
of the audiences in Washington. Was a be-
liever in Woman's Rights, in Woman Suffrage.
Women who have sought to gain suffrage have
been derided; his idea of woman's rights was
that she should be the equal of man in every way,
not only socially but in every department of life.
The wife and mother's first duty is her home, but
if she can put those duties in other hands her
woman's intuition, will help her to judge how far.
Who first saw Christopher Columbus plans? was
it the wise men of whom he solicited aid? No
Isabella of Spain!—Woman’s assistance is needed
in all places and times. Believed that many of
the bright schemes yet to be brought forth would
be from woman. The cause is not popular but
it will become so; referred to Galileo and many
other reformers. It is as much our duty to put
our hands forth to break down this false idea of
woman's sphere, as for other evils. All the bar-
baric conditions which have been in the past
should be done away. Long had the woman
been held as an inferior in everything, but these
things will be done away with. Mrs. Lockwood
wanted to study law but was denied. She did
study law, but was for years refused the privilege
of practicing until after long perseverance she
carried the day and was admitted. Doctors op-
posed women studying medicine but the time
came when their opinions were over-ruled and we
know the result.
	These things have been overcome; so will
other things be overcome. We may feel discour-
aged at times, but it does not do to be discour-
aged. Some men may be fearful of the results of
these movements, he was not. Had seen Susan


children: let us teach them from their infancy
to obey the requirements of the Gospel, and it
will be a great benefit to them.
	Sister Constena Poulsen gave a report of the
Primary Association of Sanford, said there
was a fair attendance and she knew great
benefits were being derived by those who
attended.
	Counselor Mary Jensen expressed her
satisfaction at hearing the reports of the sisters,
spoke of the privileges we had in going to
meeting and to do good, making our duties a
labor of love, and exhorted the sisters to come
to meeting and cultivate a sisterly and loving
feeling toward each other.
	Counselor Mary A. Berthelsen spoke a
short time and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, felt her weakness in addressing
her sisters, but desired to do all the good she
could.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant. “I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in the Relief and Primary stake conferences.
I am pleased to see the great work the Relief
Society and Primary Associations do. Many
do not realize the great work the sisters are
doing, and those who find the most fault with
those works and the tithing are those who do
not do any thing themselves. It is very
necessary to have combined faith with works.
The sisters are generally more faithful than
the men, and there would be much benefit de-
rived by letting the sisters vote, and help in all
the great works for they generally carry out
what they undertake well. “He spoke of the
endurance and joy and hope of a true L. D.
Saint saying they could not be discouraged, on
acconnt of their faith and testimony
for they knew they would be amply
paid for all they did. Spoke of the necessity
of parents practising what they taught their
children if they would succeed. Stake and
Ward officers were presented and unanimously
sustained in their respective places.
	Statistical and financial reports of the Relief
Society in all its branches in the Stake were
read by the secretary.
	Pres. S. S. Smith expressed his satisfaction
in meeting with the sisters on this occasion.
	Canference adjourned for six months.
	Singing “From Greenland’s icy mountains,”
Benediction by Bro. A. Fuller.
	MARTHA E. SMITH Pres.
	MARY F. CROWTHER Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
	The question of woman’s rights is extensively
and seriously before the public and should be
candidly, and considerately answered. To my
mind it is one that should be answered from a
higher stand-point than that of mere political con-
siderations involved in that of woman suffrage.
	To all of life and to the conditions of life there
is attached a purpose which can only be realized
in the future. That purpose must be kept in view
or we necessarily become lost.—are in the dark
as to the rights or wrongs of life.
	There is a “divinity that shapes our way,” and
to my mind, woman’s rights are all of human
rights that can possibly aid in acquiring divine
rights.
	All of man’s interests are to that end; to live,
think and act in view of divine attainments, and
as there is no man in the divine economy without
the woman, it ought not to be a very difficult mat-
ter to determine what are woman’s rights as well
as woman’s duties. In all that belongs to the
welfare of the race, she has both rights and
duties.
	There are bounds to the exercise of reason upon
all questions subject to discussion; also, as re-
lates to all principles which can only be compre-
hended by thoughtful and philosophical investi-
gation. To reason correctly, the standpoint or
premises from which we would deduce ultimate
facts must be strictly correct; and the chain of
reasoning must be strictly followed link by link
to find ultimate truth.
	Man’s finite powers of reason are only correct
when they harmonize with the infinite to which
his whole life and being tend.
	The fact that the earthly is in likeness of the
heavenly—the temporal in likeness of the spiritual,
is a standard to which all reasoning must con-
form to abide the test of truth; the key that un-
locks the mystery that lies beyond, and makes it
simple truth to the understanding of man.
	It is in view of this heavenly or spiritual econ-
omy as revealed to man, that I would consider
what are woman’s rights. After the heavenly order
the spiritual and temporal united constituted the
soul of man. It was by virtue of that union that
there ever was a soul of man to be saved or lost
The two separate had nothing of interest in this
[Column 2]
probation. They must work together and share
together all the consequences of that work whether
for good or for ill.
	As there can no soul of man without the union
of two, so there was no man without the union of
two, and man was created, “male and female,”
and only in the union of male and female as one,
is man found to be in the likeness of his Maker—
A union perfectly in keeping with and in likeness
of that union that constitutes the soul of man.
Hence it is declared that neither can be in the
Lord without the other. The union of the two is
a necessity, and only by virtue of that union is the
divine attainable.
	It may well be asked what are the rights of
man without the woman, and what rights has
man that woman is not entitled to share, as a
part of his being. Through her alone his creative
power is developed, without which he has no
legitimate ruling sphere, only over his own pas-
sions and desires.
	The earth today is filled with families and
nations all under obligations to woman as the
bearer of the souls of men, and there is no in-
terest of any worth; social, religious, or political
that she has not sympathy with, and is as dearly
allied to as man. Who shall say that her rights
are not as dear, that her part is not as well per-
formed, or that her reward is not as sure as man’s
to the sharing glory and honor eternally with
him in the heavens, if he be worthy. She has
shared with him in the toil and responsibilities of
human life where she has earned all that heaven
can bestow, or souls immortal desire.
	Is not woman as deeply interested in life and
its results as any man? Is not her power to dis-
cern more keenly developed, and she as suscepti-
ble of happiness or misery; and shall she be
deprived of any position or condition that can
possibly aid in the highest development of that
happiness and intellectual supremacy that should
be transmitted to the generations to come, and be
ripened for the eternities beyond.
	Woman’s lesson and study is the development of
man from childhood to mature age. She learns that
lesson well. The mother, more than any other,
comprehends all that relates to his nature and his
wants. Who, then more competent, better
qualified to take part in all those grand councils
that involve the national welfare, which is but an
aggregation of the individual welfare.
	Let woman know what are her rights and be
permitted to freely exercise them and she would
reform the world from the devotee of every species
of vice and debauchery whom she would never
marry, to the political trickster and judicial petti-
fogger whom she would banish to oblivion with
suffrage and the ballot at her command. If wo-
man had her political rights in this free land she
would breathe the breath of life into the nostrils
of that once glorious, but now dying form of re-
publican government, which was once a govern-
ment of the people, for and by the people, but
is now only a political machine, run by politicians
for political purposes, and threatening the con-
summation of a nation’s ruin.
						S. W. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
		﻿R. S. REPORTS.
		ST. JOHN'S STAKE-
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few items from this part 
might be interesting to readers of the
EXPONENT, I send a brief account of the Relief
Society conference which was held at St.
John’s Sept. 6th 1890.
	On the stand were the Presidency of the
Stake, the Pres. of the R. S. of the Stake and
one counselor and a number of leading 
sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the re-
[Column 2]
ports were read, officers of the Central Board
and Stake presented and unanimously sus-
tained. 
	Pres. E, L. S. Udall spoke in a very interest-
ing manner of her visit, in company with others,
to the branches throughout the stake, express-
ing joy in her labors among the sisters and 
the goodly condition of the Society. She re-
quested secretaries to forward reports by the 
20th of Feb. and Aug. While being pleased 
with the reports in general, regretted that
there was a slackness, with some, in attending 
meeting, showing the advantages of taking an 
interest in these organizations which all the 
sisters should be engaged in. Her objections 
to raffling articles produced in the society were
timely and good, also her instructions to the 
sisters regarding slander.
	The remainder of the time was occupied by 
the following speakers.
	Coun. Frances White, E. B. Coleman, Pres.
of the Primary Association, Mary E. B. 
Farr, Counselors E. A. Freeman and Wm.
Gibbons and Pres. David K. Udall who spoke 
in an impressive manner on union, the 
practical work of the Gospel, training of
children, bearing testimonies to the truth 
and care of the poor, the sorrowing and down-
trodden that the blessings of God may follow 
us through life.
	The meeting was a very interesting one, the 
speakers being filled with the Holy Spirit and 
spoke in a way that must carry conviction to 
the hearers.
	After singing by the congregation and 
benediction by Coun. Wm. Gibbons conference 
adjourned for six months.
	On Sunday evening following the R. S. 
conference, a meeting for the sisters was held 
in the R. S. Hall where we received much 
good instruction and the power of God was
felt.  One of our sisters had the gift of tongues 
and interpretation and we had a time of re-
joicing together, which made us feel, though
deprived of the society and encouragement of 
our leading sisters in Utah, that God is able 
and willing to speak through the sisters here 
inasmuch as they prove themselves worthy.
					MARY E. FARR Sec.
			SAN LUIS STAKE
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of the stake was held at Manassa,
Colorado, Sep. 7th, 1890, Counselor Mary
Jensen presiding, Choir sang, “The Gospel
standard high is raised”. Prayer by Bro. 
Silas Smith Jun. Singing “How great the 
wisdom and the love, That filled the courts on
high.” Sacrament was administered by the 
Manassa Bishopric. 
	Counselor Mary Jensen made a few opening 
remarks and said she was sorry that our Pres.
could not be present on account of sickness 
in her family. 
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen “Pres. of Sanford
ward” gave a report of the Society of that 
ward. Said a good and united feeling pre-
vailed, meetings were held regularly, and the
sisters tried to attend as promptly as possible.
She spoke of the responsibility of mothers in 
instiling in the minds of their children the 
Spirit of God and the plan of Salvation. 
Counselor E. Barton of Manassa ward, gave a 
favorable report of the sisters of Manassa. 
Said the sisters that attended the Relief Society 
were trying to do all the good they could.
She bore her testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel. Sister Clara Lyman gave a report
of the Primary Association of Manassa. She 
said the children were trying to do their best,
she exhorted the mothers to help the children
to get their parts and have them attend the 
meetings regularly. We as mothers try to do
too much, work too hard, and neglect the most 
important things, that is our duties to our


tion; so that when the end shall have been
reached, she will leave these walls the sym-
metrically developed woman of which we
spoke in the beginning. One not only fitted
for the parlor, the drawing room, and the pub-
lic assembly, but for the kitchen, the dining
room, the sewing room and the nursery.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS OF UTAH
			STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of Utah Stake are
progressing nicely, their numbers being in-
creased continually. Great interest seems to
be taken by the parents in regard to the
meetings of their children and this gives en-
couragement to those who have the responsi-
bility of carrying on this organization.
	During the summer just passed, President
Annie K. Smoot and others visited the various
associations throughout the county holding
meetings and instructing the officers. The
spirit of God prevailed in each meeting and
at some the gifts of the Gospel were made
manifest. In instances where all public in-
terest, with reference to meetings of the people.
had died out the Primary children were still
holding meetings, anxious to progress.
	The Stake Conference was held in Ameri-
can Fork. There an excellent programme was
rendered and instructions given by Coun.
Lillie Freeze and President Annie K. Smoot.
			ANNIE K. SMOOT, Stake Pres.
			MABEL PRATT, Stake Sec’y.


Four American girls have started on a
voyage of discovery on the Seine from Paris to
Rouen, a route seldom traversed.


[column 1]

THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF 
		WOMEN.
	AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
	[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]

	In the good old days of mince pies and plum
puddings, our great grandmothers lived, round,
plump, rosy cheeked girls, very models of neat-
ness and masters of domestic economy. But
it is safe to say that not more than one in ten
ever received an education higher than the
commonest of common schools afforded. Hence
it was but natural that to them the most im-
portant accomplishments necessary for their
daughters to enter the matrimonial state were
a knowledge of bread making, a pillow case
full of stockings, and a stack of quilts as high
as their heads. Happy, indeed, were they if
their sons could enjoy the advantage of a
liberal education; but aside from the reader,
the speller and the arithmetic, about the only
text books for the daughters were the knead-
ing board, the wash tub, the churn and the
needle. Mothers of that day could most
heartily join with Lucile in saying:

"We may live without music, poetry and art, 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart;
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized men cannot live without cooks."

	But one extreme is likely to follow another.
Slowly women began to awaken to the fact,
and men were forced to admit, that they are
the possessors of minds capable of the highest
culture, and that without such culture, when
it is possible, they cannot fully meet the high
purposes of God in their existence. Strange
that it should have taken the world five thou-
sand and eight hundred years to come to such
a conclusion, nevertheless it is true.
	In the early part of this century, as early as
1804, an academy for young ladies was opened
in Salem, N. C., and from that time institu-
tions of like grade multiplied quite rapidly. It
was not however, until about 1857 that there
was a college proper for them, and then, as it
seems, more in name than in reality. Strictly
speaking, the work of higher education for wo-
men, and co-education of the sexes, did not be-
gin until about twenty-five years ago. Before
that but few of the colleges for men would
admit them; but so rapidly did these new ideas
take root and grow in this free American soil,
that in these few years, a goodly number of
colleges expressly for women have sprung up
while according to the statistics of '87 and '88,
out of the 357 colleges of our land, 237 now
admit women, among which is Harvard, the
oldest center of intellectual life in our country,
while Yale and Columbia follow on. Further-
more, they are admitted to not a few of the
schools of medicine and law.
	The all-absorbing ambition of the enlight-
ened mother now is to have her daughter well
educated, able to converse learnedly and 
fluently on any subject, and, perchance, able to
advocate the various reforms of the day with
voice and pen. Her lily-white fingers must
run with utmost grace and elasticity up and
down the key board, and both time and means
are given her that she may acquire the art of
bringing forth things beautiful with paint and
varnish, silk and worsted. To accomplish all
this, however, it too often happens that the
fond mother forgets that she is the possessor
of a physical organism which for her highest
well-being must be kept in equipoise with mind
and soul. Forgets that the highest calling of
God to her may be to direct the affairs of a
home, and so she is spared what seems to her
the drudgery of the kitchen and the hum-drum
routine of the housekeeper. With such a one-
sided training as this, we must not wonder if

[column 2]

the exclamation falls from grandma's lips as
she sits down in her grand-daughter's unkept
kitchen. "La me! what will become of the
next generation!" But this mistake has by no
means always been made, nor is it likely to be
made, but seldom, with the advanced steps that
are being taken by educators in the introduc-
tion of manual and industrial training, not
only into our higher institutions, but into many
of our public schools, which is sure to develop
in a well-grounded education. We may now 
hope for the symmetrically developed woman,
a woman not only of cultivated mind, broader
views, and refined tastes, but one whose fingers
are skillful in the preparation of wholesome
food and proper clothing, and whose con-
science is deepened concerning the highest
well-being of the physical as the necessary con-
comitant of the highest well-being of the mental
and the spiritual.
	To-day we gather to witness the dedication
of these wisely planned and generously
equipped buildings and grounds to Utah's sons
and daughters. Thank God that the religion
which our fore-fathers brought with them
across the stormy Atlantic, was one which did
then and does still, thrive best under that
clear light of education; and that we have a 
government, the child of such noble sentiments
which will with generous hand plant these in-
stitutions up and down the length and breadth
of these United States. A government that
recognizes that its strength is not in ignorance
however well sheltered with costly and beauti-
ful cathedrals, mosques, and temples; but in
the highest education possible of its masses.
	I rejoice to say that here no hair-breadth
distinctions will be made between the sexes.
Here the young lady may enter side by side
with her brother,and if sufficient mental power
be hers, she may keep by his side, or go ahead
if she can. Here with him she may unravel
the mysteries of nature in her varied sciences,
which shall be of untold worth in the wise care
of body and home. Here she may search the
unchanging truths of mathematics and logic
which shall give her accurateness, clearness,
and force of thought and expression. Here
she may acquire both the living and the dead
languages, and by reading their varied litera-
tures enrich and beautify her mother tongue.
Here she may travel with the historian in all
ages and and climes, be introduced to the
world of today and yesterday, and gather facts
from its successes and failures that shall make
her wise in shunning the evil, and in choosing
the good. Here she may acquire that knowl-
edge of music and art, that shall cultivate her
ear for harmony, and her taste for the beauti-
ful—an ear and a taste with which God has so
richly endowed us all. And here, too, she
may come to know the various powers and
faculties of her immortal nature, her soul, and
read clearly her duty to God and man in the
studies of psychology and moral philosophy.
To her no door is shut that is opened to her
brother, unless it be that door that leads him
into the practical application of his learning in
the many trades and professions which woman
by nature, is not fitted to enter. On the other
hand, however, a door is opened to her that is
not to him; one that leads to the practical ap-
plication of her learning in those occupations
best suited to women. In one corner of this
spacious building is a room which is to be set
apart expressly for young ladies to learn the
art of cooking. Let us hope that in the years
to come, as such departments in our colleges
and universities increase, we shall have less
call for patent nostrums to allay the horrors
of dyspepsia. There will also be another room
devoted to learning how to cut and sew so that
our educated young lady shall not be depend-
ent on the seamstress. In short house-keep-
ing in all its details will be ably taught by
one who has given these things special atten-


B. Anthony when it seemed as though she must
give up but she did not.
	Pres.S.M.Kimball referred to the great World’s
Fair. Queen Isabella is to have a monument,
Susan B. Anthony to have a bust, at the Inter-
national Convention. We ought to have a voice
in that Convention, ought to have some-
thing worth saying, and will have if we give it
proper attention.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards read a poem by E. H.
Woodmansee, “Simple Justice Woman’s Right.”
	Mrs. Boyer from  Springville, made a speech,
referred to Wyoming’s having lately entered the
Union with woman suffrage. Also to Queen
Victoria’s successful reign.
	“That all woman do not wish to vote is nothing
against their having the privilege, neither do all
men vote. The suffrage work is doing well in
Springville.”	
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh spoke on human
rights. For forty-six years she had advocated
woman’s rights; had traveled much; found some
men who want slaves, not wives, not companions,
not helpmates. In some men there are broader
and more noble feelings. We must educate our
young men and bring them up to a higher
standard of manhood and womanhood.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clarke Pres. W. S. A. of Davis
Co., reported that they had but recently organized
and the movement there was yet in its incipiency.
	Meeting adjourned till April next 1891, date to
be published hereafter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Julia K. Olmstead, of Aberdeen, S. D.
won a $100 prize offered by the Chicago
Tribune for the closest guess at Chicago’s
population.

	A complete set of woman suffrage tracts
(forty-two different kinds) sent post-paid for
ten cents. Address C. Wilde. Woman’s
Journal Office, Boston Mass.

	Mary Elizabeth Cooley, wife of Judge T. M.
Cooley, of the Inter-State Commerce Commis-
sion, died in Ann Arbor recently. Mrs. Cooley
was sixty years of age, and had lived in Ann
Arbor for more than thirty years. She was a
noted philanthropist, and was president of the
board of managers of the State Iudustrial
School for girls, at Adrian, Mich., which posi-
tion she was appointed to by ex-Gov. Jerome,
and has held since.

	The friends of the late Julia Thomas have
expressed the desire for her writings so
frequently that steps have been taken to issue
them in a convenient and reliable style. Her
articles entitled: “Needs of the Girl,” Am I
My Brother’s Keeper?” “Elocution,” “Mormon
Letters” and others, have been issued in
pamphlet form at twenty five cents each, the
six bound in cloth, gilt, $1.00, to be obtained
by addressing the publishers direct, John W.
Lovell Company, or Miss Anne Thomas, 32
West Twenty-sixth street.

	Among the other recent academical triumphs
of English women must be included that of
Miss Ann Frances Piercy, of the London
School of medicine for women. At the inter- 
mediate examination in medicine in the
Uuiversity of London she gained triple first-
class honors, taking first place, with exhibi-
tion and a gold medal in materia medica, and
second place with a gold medal in anatomy.
Miss Piercyalso excelled in physiology, histol-
ogy and was bracketed equal with two male
candidates, for the first class.

	Miss Lydia Emmet, a sister of Mrs Arthur
Sherwood, formerly Miss Rosina Emmet, has
shown much talent in stained-glass work. She
has just finished a memorial window for the
late Dr. Mercer, for many years rector of
Trinity Church, Newark N. J., which is to be
placed in that church. The design is very
simple—a large cross against a somewhat lurid
sky, with the rays of the hidden sun darting
from behind a cloud and irradiating the cross,
the idea being to represent allegorically the
mystery and hope of the resurrection. The
coloring is exceedingly soft and harmonious,
and the management of the glass shows re-
markable skill. Miss Emmet is still a young
girl, and this work is one of much promise.


OBITUARIES
	Died at Payson, Utah Co., April 6th 1890, o. consump-
tion, Elizabeth Powell aged 68 years and 6 months. Sister
Powell was born in South Wales, and was baptized by
Elder Jas. W. Huish into the Church in 1850, and emi-
grated to Utah in the first company of handcarts in 1856.
She leaves 5 daughters and 2 sons, 54 grand children and
5 great grand children.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Powell adopted by the
Relief Society of the 1st District of Payson Ward.


Whereas in the providence of God she has been called
from this stage of existence to a higher sphere we bow in 
reverence to the wiil of Him who doeth all things well; she
died in full faith of the Gospel and was a useful member of
the Relief Society.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society Record, and a copy be presented to the bereaved
family pnd printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SARAH A. REECE.
						HANNAH WRIDE,
						FANNY SARGENT,
									Committe.
	Died at Union Salt Lake Co. U. T., Sister Kerstie Per-
son Swenson, on Aug. 31, 1890, of inflammation of the
bowels. Born May, 31, 1830, at Malmo, Skeine County
Sweden, emigrated to Utah in 1881. She leaves a kind
husband and two devoted children to mourn her loss and a
host of friends; all that kind hands and loving hearts could
do was done. She was an active teacher and a faithful
member of the Relief Society of this ward. A very large
audience assembled at her funeral and many of the speakers
were those who had shared the hospitality of her home in
Sweden.
	Whereas it being the will of our Heavenly Father to call
onr beloved sister home we feel that our loss is her gain,
and be it
	Resolved,that we the officers and members of this Society
condole with the bereaved husband and children and may
we emulate her many noble traits of character. And be it
	Resolved that we have a copy of these minutes on our
record book, also present them to the bereaved husband
and children and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Swedish Herald and Bikuben please copy.
						MARY ANDERSON,
						SARAH BUXTON,
						SARAH A. FORBUSH,
						MARY A. SMART,
									Committee.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]
FOURTH ANNUAL
Premium Distribution
OF THE
—SALT LAKE—
Semi-Weekly Herald
1,500 PRIZES!
VALUED AT $5,000,
Will be Given Away in the usual manner early in
1891. All you have to do is to pay $3.00, which
will secure you the SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD
DISTRIBUTION. It is already the Biggest,
Brightest and Best of Utah papers, as the sworn
circulation of 10,700 copies per week fully at-
tests, and new improvements will be added to it in 
the near future.
	THE PRIZES
will be headed by a magnificent Upright Everett
Piano, valued at $500 cash, to be seen at the
piano warerooms of the F. E. Warren Mercantile
Co., 10 E. Second South, Salt Lake.  They will
also include Purses of Gold Coin ranging from 
One Hundred Dollars down to Five Dollars,
Valuable Horned Stock, Sewing Machines, Agri-
cultural Implements, Fruit and Shade Trees,
Steel Engravings, Pictures, Gold and Silver 
Watches, Trunks, Dishes, Town Lots, Toilet Sets,
Oil Paintings, and over One Thousand Beautiful
and Useful Books of History, Poetry and Standard
Fiction.
Premium Receipts now Ready.
	Subscribe through any local or traveling agent,
or send money by P. O. order, postal note, bank
check or draft, or postage stamps. at our risk
Address
			THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.
Read what some of the Lucky Ones in last 
	year's Distribution have to say:
		Fairview, Sanpete Co., Utah, August 30, 1890.
	The Herald Co., Salt Lake City, Utah.—This is to 
certify that I received One Hundred Dollars cash as a 
premium from the Herald Company.  Accept my sin-
cere thanks for the same.  Yours, with kindest regards,
						MARY V. PRITCHETT.
					Springville, August 29, 1890.
	To the Herald Company, Salt Lake City.—I received
the premium (a $10 easy rocker) all right, and was
satisfied.  Yours respectfully,			EMMA DALEY.

[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER.
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
