VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1891.		No. 21.


CONTENTS.
	The Martiarchate or Mother-age—Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton. A Good Testimony—Mary
Kjar Sanderson. The Silent Seven. Millard
Co., W. S. A.—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. R. S. Re-
ports—Saun Juan—Uintah. Speech by E. R.
Snow. Primary Fair and Conference. The
World's Fair.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Special Mission. Edi-
torial Notes. Relief Society Conference. Among
Eastern Women—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. How
do we Stand?—Mary E. Kimball,
	POETRY:—Sonnet—John Howard Bryant. Re-
compense. Dear Liberty—Belle D. Edwards.
Return Love. An Obstacle—Charlotte Perkins
Stetson.


SONNET.

I love the song birds. There is naught in Nature,
E'er moved me with so deep an inspiration,
As when the hermit thrush, that tiny creature,
Poured out at eventide, his sweet libation
Of heavenly music through the lonely wood.
'Twas long ago when I in childhood years,
First heard that song celestial as I stood
Transfixed with ecstacy, and moved to tears,
Now as I seek my native home again—
The stream and wood paths, where the wild flowers blow,—
I yearn to hear once more the joyous strain
That thrilled my bosom seventy years ago;
But age-dulled nerves, can never know again.
The heartfelt rapture that o'ercame me then.
						JOHN HOWARD BRYANT.
	Princeton, Ill. November 1890.


RECOMPENSE.

There is no joy but has its drop of sorrow,
	No song  but has an undertone of pain.
Our yesterday, today, and yet tomorrow
	Has e'er its sunshine interspersed with rain,

We chase the brightest sunbeams, and they lead us
	Full often where the deepest shadow lies!
We fret at fate, but never will it heed us,
	Or turn the course of fortune otherwise.

We sigh because too heavy seems life's burden,
	The path too rugged for our weary feet.
We weep because too meagre seems our guerdon,
	And long for wayside cool and meadows sweet.

And yet we rise by obstacles surmounted,
	By burdens bravely borne and foes o'erthrown.
Each seeming hindrance may be counted
	Unto the higher realm a stepping stone.

Worthless the gold while yet untried by fire;
	The finest statue grows by many a blow.
He who has much to meet may much aspire,
	He of the even way must stay below.


DEAR LIBERTY

		TUNE—"Bethel."
Nearer we come to thee,
		Freedom, to thee;
Pleading on bended knee,
		Freedom, for thee.
Strike from our fettered hands,
Tradition's galling bands,
In near and distant lands,
		Dear Liberty.

Come we o'er frozen seas,
		Freedom, to thee,
From blooming southern leas,
		Seeking for thee.


From every land and clime,
From every age and time,
Calling thy name sublime,
		Dear Liberty.

Proudly we'll face the world,
		When we are free,
Thy starry flag unfurled,
		Over us free.
Spread, spread thy wings of light,
Dispel our long, long night,
Kindle thy glory bright,
		Dear Liberty.

Altars we'll raise to thee,
		Freedom, to thee,
Altars to God and thee,
		To God and thee.
Our voices high we'll raise
In hymns of grateful praise,
For thine unshaded rays,
		Dear Liberty.
					BELLE D. EDWARDS.


[Column 1]
THE MATRIARCHATE OR MOTHER-
			AGE.
BY MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

Read at the Woman's National Council,
	Washington, D. C., Feb. 1891, by
		Miss Susan B. Antnony.

	All along from the beginning until the 16th
century, when Luther eliminated the feminine
elements wholly from the Protestant religion
and brought the full power of the church to
enforce woman's complete subjection, we find
traces of the matriarchate. Karl Pearson, in
a series of deeply interesting essays gives us
the result of his researches into the works of
modern historians, and the startling facts they
unearth,from what to most of us is the dead, un-
known, eternal past, shadowed in mystery.
The publication of "Das Mutterecht," by Bac-
hofen in 1861, of Morgan's "Ancient Society,"
in 1877, of Wilkeson's "Ancient Egypt," in
1836, with other lesser lights pursuing the
same trend of investigation, all show the lead-
ing independent position women held for ages.
	Morgan in his "Ancient Society," gives
many remarkable examples of the superior
position of women among different tribes in
the latter part of the period of barbarism.
Among the greater number of American aborig-
ines the descent of property and children
were in the female line. Women sat in the
councils of war, and peace and their opinions
had equal weight on all questions. Among
the Winnebagoes that occupied the territory
now known as Wisconsin, a woman was at the
head of the nation. The same was true 
among the early tribes or gens in the East-
ern Hemisphere. In the councils of the Iro-
quois gens every adult male or female member
had a voice upon all questions brought before
it.
	At the epoch of European discovery, the
American Indian tribes were generally organ-
ized into gentes, with descent in the female
line.
	During the early periods the property of
women were in her own line and gens, and
man's property was in his own line and gens.
The following case at the Pueblo of Oraybe
shows that the husband aquires no rights
over the property of the wife, or over the
children of the marriage. A Zunian married

[Column 2]
an Orabye woman and had by her three child-
ren. He resided with them at Oraybe until his
wife died, when the relatives of the deceased
wife took possession of her children and
household property; leaving to him his cloth-
ing, horse and weapons. As was the custom
he returned to his own people at Zuni.
	From this it appears the children belonged
to the mother, not to the father; and that he
was not allowed to take them even after the
mother's death. Such also, was the usage
among the Iroquois and other northern tribes,
and among the villiage Indians of Mexico.
	The period of woman's supremacy lasted
through many centuries—undisputed, accepted
as natural and proper wherever it existed, and
was called the matriarchate, or mother-age. It
was plainly traceable among the Aryans, the
Germans, the Persians, and indications of it
are still seen among uncivilized tribes and na-
tions. 
	Careful historians now show that the great-
est civilizing power all along the pathway of
of natural history has been found in the wis-
dom and tender sentiments growing out of
motherhood. For the protection of herself
and her children woman made the first home in
the caves of the earth; then huts with trees in
the sunshine. She made the first attempts at
agriculture; raised grain, fruits and herbs
which she learned to use in sickness. She
was her own physician; all that was known to
the medical art was in her hands. 
	Perhaps more interesting for us to-day is
the actual existence of the matriarchate in
the north of Africa among the Touaregs.
	The child belongs to the mother and not to
father; it is the blood of the mother and not
the father, which confers on the child the rank
he is to take. Formerly,when there was a ques-
tion of territorial distribution, the lands grant-
ed to each family were inscribed in the name
of the mother. The Berber law gives to
women the administration of their property;
at Rhat, they alone dispose of houses, gardens,
—in a word, of all the landed property in the
country. Among the Touaregs, not only is
woman held the equal of man, but she enjoys
a preferable condition. She disposes of her
hand and in the conjugal community she ad-
ministers her own fortune, without being
forced to contribute to the expense of the
household. Thus it happens, that as produc-
tions accumulate, the greater part of the 
wealth is in the hands of the women.
	These social customs have produced extra-
ordinary developments in the Targui woman.
Her intelligence and her initiative spirit are
astonishing in the midst of a Mussulman
society. She excels in bodily exercises; on
the back of a dromedary she travels a hun-
dred kilometers to attend a soiree, she com-
petes in races with the boldest cavalier of the
desert. She is distinguished by intellectual
culture; the ladies of the tribe of Ymanan are
celebrated for their beauty and their musical
talent; when they give concerts the men come
eagerly from the most distant parts, adorned
like male ostriches.
	Touaregs are the descendants of the Lybians
spoken of by Herodotus. The historian tells
us that the male children are not compelled by
law to maintain their parents, this charge is
incumbent by law upon the daughters. The
imposition of such a duty on the daughters
sufficed to establish the rule that the wealth of 
the family should belong to the women, and


[Column 1]

﻿wherever the woman possesses this economic
position, she is not under the guardianship of
her husband, but is the head of the family.
	The Rev. Samuel Gorman, a missionary
among the Taguna Pueblo Indians, remarks
in an address before the Historical Society of
New Mexico that "the right of property be-
longs to the female part of the family, and
descends in that line from mother to daugh-
ter."
	Then women generally have control of
the granary, and they are more provident
than their Spanish neighbors about the future.
Ordinarily they try to have a year's provision
on hand. It is only when two years of scarcity
succeed each other that Pueblos, as a commuity
suffer hunger.
	Of the Senecas of North America, the Rev.
Arthur Wright wrote in 1873: "Usually the
females ruled the house. The stores were in
common: but woe to the luckless husband or
lover who was too shiftless to do his share of
the providing. No matter how many children,
or whatever goods he might have in the house,
he might at any time be ordered to pick up
his blanket and budge; and after such an or-
der it would not be healthful for him to
attempt to disobey.
	The women were the great power among the
clan, as everywhere else. They did not hesi-
tate, when occasion required, 'to knock off the
horns,' as it was technically called, from the
head of a chief and send him back to the
ranks of the warriors. The original nomina-
tion of the chiefs also always rested with the
women."
	The account we find given by the Portu-
guese navigators of the Nairs, a people inhabi-
ting the coast of Malabar in the fifteenth cen-
tury, is another proof of the superior con-
dition of women under previons family sys-
tems. The Nairs were then in a state of
actual civilization; they had a marine
and well-organized  army; their towns
were wealthy and the inhabitants courteous in
manners.
	The mother, or in case of her death, the
eldest daughter, was the head of the family;
the eldest brother, named the foster father,
managed the estate; the husband was a guest;
he only entered the house on fixed days, and,
did not sit at table with his wife and children.
"The Nairs," says Barbosa, "have an extra-
ordinary respect for their mother; it is from
her they receive wealth and honors; they
honor equally their eldest sister, who is to
succeed the mother and take the management
of the family. The children belong to the
mother, and she takes their support on her-
self." The Nair family system was maintained
among the Malabar people till the invasion of
Hyder Ali in 1766."
	Strabo says of the primitive people of
Spain: "That they suffered a most foolish
governance by women; that the women
possossed the property, and it passed from
mother to daughter; that the latter gave away
their brothers in marriage; that the men took
a dowry with them into the houses of their
wives; that the women perform all the agri-
cultural work, and were as hardy as men.
	The women at a later period were not only
the rulers of the home but they were priestesses;
the deities were in a great part goddesses. All
there was of learning and tradition was in the
hands of the women, the folk custom long
recognized their superiority to man.
	The safety of mother and child, in the
solitude of the vast primeval forests, was due
in no small measure, to the superstition that
woman was in communion with the gods who
would avenge her wrongs. Her spirit is sup-
posed to linger around the hearth after death,
and to-day the solitary student sitting over the
fire, or the peasant when the family are out,

[Column 2]

will tell you they have been alone at the hearth
with their mother soul.
	They are conceived of peculiarly as divine
mother, (gottermuther) traveling about and
visiting mortals. From them mankind has
learned the business and the arts of house-
keeping, agriculture, cattle raising, spinning,
weaving, sowing, reaping, as well as watching
the hearth. These labors bring peace and rest
to the land, and the memory of them remains
firmer in pleasing traditions, than war and
fighting, which like women, the majority of the
goddesses shun. Karl Pearson says: "A truer
although unconscious tribute to the civilizing
work of women, can hardly be imagined."
	Karl Pearson tells us, the transition from the
mother to the father-age was marked by the
appearance of women of gigantic stature. The
old legends of contests between men and wo-
men for supremacy are not such idle fancies as
some would have us believe. Very dark shad-
ows indeed do such figures as those of Ildico,
Fredegunde and Brunhilde cast across the
pages of history. Such women were only
paralelled by the Clytemnestra and Medea of
a like phrase in Greek development. Among
the Germans, too, the poets represented the
contest between men and women for the
mastery. Wuodan replaces Hellja; Siegfried
conquers Brunhilde; Beovulf, the offspring of
Grindel and Thor, fights with Gialp, and
Griep, the daughters of Geirrod. One great
element of physical and mental vigor is free-
dom' which women have never enjoyed except
under the Matriarchate.
	The Amazons, the present body guard of the
King of Dohomey, the astounding powers of
endurance exhibited by domestic servants and
the peasant girls of southern Germany and
Italy, and the fish-women at Boulogne, all point
to the great strength of women when once the
physique has beep developed.
	The victory of man over woman was not
easily accomplished. It took long centuries to
fully confirm it, and traces of the mother-age
remain throughout the Mediaeval times. The
permanency of sex relations among the agri-
culturists and the necessity for organization in
matters of defence, which must be entrusted
mainly to men, were the beginnings of the
father age.
	Driven from the commanding position of
home-mother, and deprived of her rights to
property and children, the last fortress of the
Teutonic woman was her sacerdotal privileges.
She remained holy as priestess. She had
charge of the tribal sacrifice and the tribal
religion.
	From this last refuge she was driven by the
introduction of the Christian religion, with its
narrow Pauline doctrine, which made woman
mentally and physically the inferior of man,
and lawfully in subjection to him.
	Morgan in his ."Ancient Society," attributes
the premature destruction of ethnic life, in the
societies of Greece and Rome, to their failure to
develop and utilize the mental and moral con-
servative forces of the female intellect, which
were not less essential than those of men to their
progress.
	In closing, I would say that every woman
present must have a new sense of dignity and
self respect, feeling that our mothers during
some periods in the long past have been the
ruling power and that they used that power
for the best interests of humanity. As history
repeats itself, we have every reason to believe
that our turn will come again, it may not be
for woman's supremacy, but for the, as yet un-
tried, experiment of complete equality, when
the united thought of man and woman will
inaugurate a just government, a pure religion,
a happy home, a civilization at last in which
ignorance, poverty and crime will exist no
more.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT
	A GOOD TESTIMONY.

DEAR SISTER:
	I have taken the EXPONENT ever since it
was first published; but have never written a
word for it yet. So I will avail myself of
this opportunity. I have been a teacher in
the Relief Society in Gunnison and other
places since May 1868. I have walked hun-
dreds of miles to visit my sisters, and have had
many happy hours with them, and hope I shall
many more.
	In our Relief Society here in Gunnison
there are 163 members; we are getting along
well. We hold our monthly meetings regularly
also a working meeting every month in which
we make quilts for the poor, etc. We have a
very good president. She is always thought-
ful of the poor and of what she can do for
them. Our Society is having a new store
built and is progressing favorably.
	I am now seventy years old, I had my
last birthday in February, when a number of
my children and friends came and surprised
me, and they gave me some nice presents.
	I have been in the Church 35 years, but
have never regretted it. I know the Gospel
is true, I know there is no other way to be
saved. I received the Gospel in its fulness,
and will stand up for it ever, God being my
helper. I have had many ups and downs in
my life, I but still I know that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet, I can bear that testimony
to all my sisters and to all the world.

	When I sit in my little home in my lonely
hourse, I always think of what troubles and
trials I have passed through in my life; but
through it all I can see that the Lord has had
His eye upon me since I came into this world.
Sisters, let us be prayerful; pray for one
another, and the authorities of this Church.
	I will call my sisters' attention to the
Temple. Do not be too slow to do your work
there; for we see people pass away on the
right and left of us, and we know not the hour
when we will be called away. There are
many on the other side of the veil watching
and waiting for us to release them. If I had
the means, I should spend the rest of my days
in that holy House.
	There are many who are blest with means.
I think they could not spend it in a better way
for that would indeed be treasures laid up in
heaven. I have 115 names on my record for
whom I have performed a work or had it done
for them. What a happy day it will be when
I meet them in the millenium, I ask the
Lord to bless you.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARY KJAR SANDERSON.
	Gunnison, April 21, 1891.


IMPERFECTUS.

I wonder if ever a song was sung
	But the singer's heart sang sweeter!
I wonder if ever a rhyme was rung
	But the thought surpassed the metre!
I wonder if ever a sculptor wrought
'Til the cold stone echoed his ardent thought!
Or if ever a painter, with light and shade,
The dream of his inmost heart portrayed!

I wonder if ever a rose was fonnd
	And there might not be a fairer!
Or, if ever a glittering gem was grouud,
	And we dreamed not of a rarer!
Ah! never on eartn shall we find the best!
But it waits for us in the land of rest;
And a perfect thing we shall never behold
Till we pass the portal of shining gold,

		JAMES C. HARNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RETURN LOVE.

They had a quarrel and she sent
	His letters back next day,
His ring and all his presents went
	To him without delay.

"Pray send my kissess back to me,"
	He wrote, "Could you forget them?"
She answered speedily that he
	Must come himself and get them.


AN OBSTACLE.

	Presented with compliments of the Woman's Press
Association as a souvenir of an evening with Charlotte
Perkins Stetson, at Irving Hall, San Francisco, Aprll 10,
1891.
		I was climbing up a mountain path,
			With many things to do;
		Important business of my own
			And other people's too;
		When I ran against a Prejudice
			That quite cut off the view.

		Mw work was such as could not wait,
			My path quite clearly showed,
		My strength and time were limited,
			I carried quite a load,
		And there was hulking Prejudice
			Sat all across the road.

		So I spoke to him politely,
			For he was huge and high;
		And begged that he would move a bit
			And let me travel by;—
		He smiled but as for moving—
			He did'nt even try!

		So then I reasoned quietly
			With that colossal mule;
		My time was short, no other path,
			The mountain winds were cool—
		I argued like a Solomon—
			He sat there like a fool!

		Then I flew into a passiou,
			I danced, and howled, and swore—
		I pelted and belabored him
			'Til I was stiff and sore—
		Ha got as mad as I did,
			But he sat there as before.

		And then I begged him on my knees—
			I might be kneeling still,
		If so I hoped to move that mass
			Of obdurate ill will:—
		As well implore the monument
			To vacate Bunker Hill!

		So I sat before him helpless
			In an ecstacy of woe;
		The mountain mists were rising fast,
			The sun was sinking slow,
		When a sudden inspiration came
			As sudden winds do blow.

		I took my hat, I took my stick,
			My load I settled fair—
		I approached that awful incubus
			With an absent-minded air—
		And I walked directly through nim,
			As if he wasn't there!

		CHARLOTT PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE SILENT SEVEN.
	[From Mrs. Lide Meriwether's Address
before the National American Woman Suff-
rage Association, Feb. 1891.]
	In this great and good government of ours,
this so-called free republic, there are seven
classes of people who have no voice in the
government, viz: minors, aliens, paupers,
criminals, lunatics, idiots, and women. If a
man is known by the company he keeps,
women must draw their own conclusions from
this list.
	First on the list come minors. It is deemed
essential that the novitiate should spend some
years of his life in the study of political ques-
[Column 2]
tions. Therefore no boy can cast a ballot
until he is twenty-one years old. But the girl
beside him may go on in years until she reach-
es seventy-one,and yet never reach her political
majority. And yet although a woman never
grows up, if she have a son that goes astray,
from the whole region round about goes up the
cry, "why didn't his mother train him better?"
	The next class of political mutes are aliens,
but a residence of five years endows them with
the faculty of speech, and in this case we find
that every politician practically has his adver-
tisement out-"full science of American poli-
tics taught in one lesson," and that lesson so
simple that a fool may understand it. More-
over, our politicians have reached such a
sublime height of patriotism that, instead of
requiring renumeration from their pupils, they
bestow it upon them, in the shape of schooners
of beer. quarts of the genuine American
liquid or its equivalent in United States cur-
rency. This however, applies only to the male
foreigner. His wife and daughter, you will
remember, are and will remain political aliens.
	The third incapable stands on the statute
books yclept pauper.
	A man, who is incapable of earning his own
bread is held-in some of our States-unfit to
have a voice in making the law, or choosing
the law-makers. But why should all Ameri-
can women be classed with this individual?
Are our women all paupers?	
	In the little State of Massachusetts, 251,158
women are earning their own living; in New
York city, 200,000, and all these outside of
domestic service. And besides these we find
14,465 women at the head of commercial
houses, 2,136 architects and chemists, 216
stock raisers and ranchers, 56,800 farmers
and planters, and employed in other bread
winning occupations, over 3,500,000. Are
these to be classed with paupers?
	Next on the list of the voiceless, stands the
unpardoned criminal. All right that he 
should be denied the law making power; but
why the women of this land should be kneaded 
up wholesale into the same batch with him is
one of the things in the philosophy of the
American politics that "passeth all under-
standing," all the statistics show that our
prisons are filled with male criminals,with only
one here and there of the other sex. Is this
the reason women are placed in the same list?
	Fifth, in this complimentary catalogue
comes the lunatic. The man or woman whose
reasoning power is destroyed, has, surely, no
right to the law-making power. But are all
American women lunatics, or first cousins to
that festive individual? If you go into the
lunatic asylums of this country and count
noses, you will find that the masculine nose
predominates to a startling degree. If you
look outside you will then find it rather a
puzzling task to trace the borderland between
sanity and insanity. But suppose you inquire,
which sex muddles itself most with strong
drink; which most uses the nasty brown weed?
If practices like these denote level headedness,
then I am free to confess that the masculine
half of society is the sane half, but if the
opposite be true the scale containing the
the women will tip the beam every time.
	Sixth and last, save one on the list of the
silent seven, stands the idiot, and on our
statute books, woman stands next to him, and
at the foot of the class. Do 558 women
journalists, 320 authors, 2,061 artists, 13,182
professional musicians, 5,134 government
clerks, 2,438 physicians and surgeons, 175
lawyers, 265 ordained ministers, half-a-million
teachers and three million independent bread
winners in other avocations denote idiocy. If
so I give up my case. But, if I have given 
any proof that American womanhood has no
title to be reckoned up,with this intelligent,re-
fined and capable crowd, then why should he.
[Column 3]
only governmental privileges be those of be-
ing taxed, tried, fined, imprisoned, and hung
by a jury of men.
	Let us be logical or die.


MILLARD CO., W. S. A.

	The W. S. A.  of Millard Co., over which
I have the honor to preside; and which I was
delegated to represent at the N. A. W. S.Conven-
tion, is one of which I am proud, and I think
justly so, for we have a large membership list,
and many interesting and instructive meetings
are held, where subjects are discussed of deep
interest to the higher education, and better
social status of woman.  In the two years of
my presidency I have met but four individuals
belonging to the county who expressed them-
selves, opposed to woman having the full right
to the suffrage and equal rights in all social
and political matters with men.  And while
we call ourselves the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, we take a broader, more liberal view,
and ask that the same right should be ex-
tended to every citizen of every country, in-
dependent of creed or color.  And while much
is written, and said about the Indian, and his
right to the suffrage of which many would de-
bar him, we would freely accord to him all
the rights, we as women, demand for our-
selves.  Is he not the rightful owner of the
soil of America?  are we the intruders, or is he?
surely we are the usurpers; he was here when
Columbus landed, and for how long before
who shall attempt to say.  It is fashionable to
laugh at his ignorance and sneer at his primi-
tive manners.  How long is it since the un-
tutored ancestors of our vaunted civilization
were as rude and uncultured as he?.
	Immense sums are annually expended upon
foreign missions; let some of this mission work
be done at home; devote some of the funds
for the clothing and educating of the red
man.  Have him taught a trade or otherwise
employ him,and he will soon be able to clothe
himself, and provide for his own wants, be-
come a useful member of society and repay
us many times over for what we have done
for him.  The negro is another stumbling
block, and eye-sore to many.  Has he not al-
ready suffered enough at the hands of the
white man?  should not his freedom be full
and complete?  it was dear enough purchased,
let us not curtail it.  Freedom should be given
with no niggard hand.  Make the qualifica-
tions for the suffrage an educational one, to
the extent Wyoming has, if you will; keep it
from the criminal if you choose, otherwise ex-
tend it to ALL, especially to woman.
	How is it that men, who love freedom so
well, withhold it from their mothers, wives
sisters and daughters?  Is it from jealousy or
cowardice?  They know that woman's percep-
tion is quick to discern, that she will soon dis-
cover the "right man, for the right place;" they
know that drink will not corrupt, or money
purchase her vote; do they fear to subject
themselves to the test?  I have never yet heard
a man give a valid reason for witholding the
suffrage from woman, nor do I think they can
find one.
	The time is not far distant when the con-
cession will be forced from them, why not give
it at once, gracefully, and earn the thanks of
the women of all nations, rather than wait,
and be told, "to you no thanks are due, for
you were compelled to be just to our sex."
				M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


If we would have the world about us noble,
pure and true, we must exhibit these qualities
of the heart, and then the nobleness and
purity in others will rise in beauty and grand-
eur to meet our own.—Mizpah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
    Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter. 	
SALT LAKE CITY, - - MAY 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SPECIAL MISSION.

	There are so many subjects of interest in the
present day and so much occuring from time to
time that is worthy of attention, and that calls
out ideas that are original, and opinions that are
new, that when one attempts to write, or speak,
so much of importance crowds into the mind of
the individual, that it is difficult to decide what
choice to make, or in what line or direction one
can do the most good. It is the same or similar
to this when one goes on a journey and especially
when meeting many people, who are worth re-
membering, aad hearing themes and topics dis-
cussed, that create so much thought and open up
fields, as it were, to traverse over, and select the
best and choicest gems or tiny seeds scattered
for those, who follow the lead or paths opened
by those, who are as guides to the masses. It is
always the few who lead, or who sew the seed
that yields the harvest for the thousands and tens
of thousands. To some it seems to be given to
do this very work, and often without even appre-
ciation by the multitude thus benefitted.
	In the recent Council and Convention held by
the leading women in Washington, D. C., women
of the brightest intellect and superior education
gathered from the various parts of the United
States and some from other countries, there was
so much given that furnished food for thought
in those few days, and the women themselves
made such an excellent study, that looking back
upon it and recalling the whole transaction with
those who figured in it, one is lost in contempla-
tion of themes and admiration for the work and
the workers, until it seems to become a perfect
puzzle not only how so much could be crowded
into so short a space of time, but what to select
from the whole as best to use in giving a brief
description of the affair.
	The writer is often asked, what was accom-
plished, by the coming together of these great
bodies of women?" "What do you expect to
gain?" Individually to those who listened atten-
tively the actual gain was something worth while
in the way of finding out how much women knew
on certain subjects, how well they had informed
themselves, and how magnificently they could im-
part that knowledge to others. Certainly one thing
was very apparent, that women could teach pub-
licly on the platform, not only common-place
matters, such as mothers teach at the fireside but
also expound doctrine and principle, and even
the Scriptures, and that too in a way to touch the
heart and the understanding, as few men trained
in this very calling could do.
	Evidently superior women are becoming lights
to the world, they are no longer hid away in a
corner knitting or darning stockings, for both are
done now by machinery, but they stand up and
proclaim great moral and spiritual truths, and the

[Column 2]

people are glad to hear them. Such women as
the Rev. Anna Shaw, Rev. Amanda Deyo, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Isabella Davis and others with
and without the title of Reverend, speaking as
they did at that Council of Women this year, and
as they do elsewhere, will and must accomplish
something for the uplifting of humanity. Un-
doubtedly they have a mission and the spirit of it
rests upon them.
	From time to time in our columns we expect
to publish extracts from the speeches of these
famous speakers, that our readers may have the
opportunity of knowing something of the work
in which they are engaged, and the success which
is marking the march of woman's intellect in the
nineteenth century. The learned clergy generally
speaking are opposed to women preachers, and
fear their influence. Why they should, seems
utterly absurd; for men and women must rise to-
gether, one cannot do without the other, or life
itself would cease to be; therefore let woman as
well as man do what she can do best; wherever
her influence is used for good to promote moral-
ity, virtue, and temperance, or to develop any of
the higher qualities or gifts mental, moral or
spiritual, in that sphere she should be allowed to
labor. Men argue (and many women) that wo-
man's province is the home, allowing this to be
true, how many thousands of women have no
home,such women may have a distinctive mission
who can tell? Men seldom find fault with wo-
men who spend the greater part of their time in
society, that many think is a blessing, woman's
influence in the ball room at dinner parties, and
places of amusement is elevating and purifying,
yet that takes her from home, as much or often
more than to be a public speaker or minister;
but the real objection no doubt is that one inter-
feres with the calling and position of men, in-
fringes upon their 'vantage ground and the other
does not.
	When the great Prophet of this dispensation of
the nineteenth century turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman, it opened up a flood of light that
spread abroad and touched all women who were
susceptible of light from on high with a portion
of its divine radiance; and the awakening came;
just as when the spirit of Elijah came to turn the
hearts of the children to the fathers, to seek
after them etc., it reached the world, and the
people began to look up their records and
histories and genealogies and publish books of
families. So the Lord works in many directions
and in marvelous ways, and women as well as
men will have missions of great importance, and
the Lord will help them if they seek wisdom from
on high.
	In fact one cannot help thinking the Savior
himself set this glorious example of giving to wo-
man a divine mission, when he said to Mary and
the other women who were with her, "Go tell my
brethren &c." There have been times in the
history of the world as recorded in the Scriptures
when the most important questions have been
settled by a woman, (strange to state but never-
theless true) on one occasion when, the high
priests and scribes were commanded by the King
to inquire of the Lord concerning a certain matter
that was written in the book of the Law of the
Lord, which was found when they were repairing
the House of the Lord, and which thing troubled
the King, these wise men high priests and scribes
went to Huldah the prophetess, who dwelt in the
college at Jerusalem, and she actually gave them
the word of the Lord, prophesied to them; what
presumption that would be considered nowadays,
aud yet who knows what may come to pass even
in this day and age?
	It is very generally conceded that the Lord
raises up great men from time to time, and en-
dows them with special gifts to perform a cer-
tain work or works, so also why may He not in
the same way raise up women for special missions?

[Column 3]

Is it not reasonable when the man is not with-
out the woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord, must they not also be associated to-
gether in His work? The signs of the times sig-
nify the fact that woman's era has already dawned
that henceforth her plane will be a higher one,
that the curse placed upon her is gradually being
removed and in the restoration of all things that
is to come to pass, woman will have to do her
part to bring about her own salvation, and out of
that great mother-love of which she is possessed
she may do much towards the redemption of the
human family. The world is wide enough and
there is work for all in the Master's vineyard.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The sisters semi-monthly meeting held
regularly in the 14th Ward, will be postponed on
account of President Harrison’s visit from Satur-
day May 9th until Saturday May 23rd.
	Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society expects to leave the city early in this
month on a a visit to Canada; she will probably
be absent abount two or perhaps three months.
She has been in Logan for a few days attending
to Temple work and visiting sisters meetings
and conferences, and speaks very highly of the
condition of the associations in that vicinity.
	President Harrison and party are expected to
arrive in Salt Lake City on the 9th of May and
therefore the day will be observed as a general
holiday in the city. The Sunday School child-
ren are to welcome him with banners, badges,
songs and flowers; Utah is famous for beautiful
children and on this occasion there will be a
grand opportunity to let the Chief Executive of
the nation see how numerous the generation
growing up in Utah has already become; this is
one of the features of the Territory in which the
people take special delight.
	The children of the Primary Associations are
going to have a Fair in the city sometime in June
about the time of the Quarterly Conference which
will very probably be held on the 20th of June; it
is quite necessary that the preparations should
be going on in the local associations, otherwise
they would have very little time, and the officers
of the Stake organization of the Primary are
very anxious that the Children's Fair for Salt
Lake Stake shall be a decided success in the way
of display of articles requiring ingenuity and
skill. Pres. Ellen C. Clawson and her Coun-
selors will do all in their power and hope to have
the hearty co-operation of the officers and child-
ren in all the wards of this county. Pres. Claw-
son also wishes all the children of the Primary
Associations near here to consider themselves
invited to participate in the Picnic in Liberty-
Park on the first day of June, which day has
been designated as Children’s Day in honor of
President Brigham Young, and as a fitting tri-
bute to his memory from the children of Zion.
This custom will make a lasting impression upon
the minds of the little people, and it is a practise 
which will we hope spread throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden will give a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the Salt Lake theatre
on Monday evening, May 25th, at which time she
will give some of her finest recitations or readings;
and her manner of address, her voice and
style are altogether pleasing and she displays in
her acting, talents of a high order. Mrs. Boyden
has been laboring very faithfully among the child-
ren and young ladies, in this city for some months
and has given public recitations for them in
several wards, at different times, that have called
forth the commendation of those who have had
the privilege and pleasure of attending these re-


citals. One of these will be given in the 18th
Ward school house on Wednesday evening May
13th, at which time friends of the art are invited
to come and see for themselves. Mrs. Boyden's
work in that direction was highly spoken of in
the Denver papers, and she has devoted herself
exclusively to the interest of Elocution here,
winning the sincere admiration of some highly
cultivated people. We hope that Mrs.
Boyden may meet with the success her work
deserves. She will be assisted at the entertain-
ment by a few of her pupils and also by some of
the best musical talent in the city, besides music,
songs and recitations, there will be a short play.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	Afternoon session convened in the Assembly
Hall, President Zina D. H. Young presiding; be-
side her Counselors and the Secretaries, several
other ladies from a distance were seated on the
stand, and Apostles F. D. Richards and F. M.
Lyman favored the sisters with their presence
during the afternoon. Meeting opened with
singing "O, ye Mountains High" &c. prayer by
Dr. E. S. Barney, singing, "We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet," President Adeline
Barber reported Cache Stake. Counselor Ann
Pulsifer reported Emery Stake, Pres. Mary
Pitchforth, Juab Stake, Pres. Susan Grant,Davis
Stake, these organizations were all spoken
of as in good condition and a good
spiritual influence prevailing among the sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt spoke for a few minutes thought
we had enjoyed a spiritual feast, wondered if we
were grateful enough for the privileges we
enjoyed, said we had many precious promises
made to us, and we might bring them to pass if
we lived for them and asked for it,—illustrated
her idea by a beautiful field of wheat, that we first
had to prepare the ground then sow the seed,
water and tend it, work to make it bring forth the
golden grain. We need the spiritual as well as
the temporal, without spiritual food we get hard
and dark, and then we have to get down on our
knees and beseech the Lord to help us, and by
our humility we feel softened and tender, then
we can have the holy Spirit. Dr. Pratt also
spoke in behalf of the Hospital, its needs and
that every little gift would be acceptable. Coun-
selor B. W. Smith referred to the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society, to the teachings and
instructions of Joseph Smith, and the work the
sisters accomplished in that early day for the
poor, the sick, the distressed, the dying and the
dead; said many things that were mysterious to
to us then are now as plain as day; we have
grown wiser and more intelligent in many things;
there were more evil spirits to contend with then
than there are now.
	Pres. Elvira Harrison of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Malad Stake represented the Relief Society of
that Stake. Stake secretary Mary E. Snow,
represented Box Elder Stake.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the congre-
gation, said Pres. Woodruff had intended to
come and had a great desire to come, but had
been prevented; alluded to the preaching in the
Priesthood Meeting that had been held in the
morning, and the teachings in regard to fast
offerings, and the great assistance the Relef
Society would be if these things were properly
regulated. If all the Latter-day Saints observed
the Fast Day, the donations would be of great
benefit to the poor, and their cries would not go
up into the ears of the Lord, and angels would
smile upon those who performed these duties and
requirements, and a blessing would surely follow;
realized that the Relief Society formed an impor-
tant part of the Church. Referred to the neces-
sity of all working in harmony in the Society,
and counseled the sisters to be exemplary in their

[Column 2]
lives, and in all their ways and the peace of the
Lord would abide with them.
	Pres. Josephine Textonius of Leamington re-
ported Millard Stake. The Cor. Sec. then read
encouraging letters from Bannock, Beaver, Paro-
wan, Sevier, Kanab and St. Joseph Stakes.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed himself
pleased that the sisters felt to come out to the
General Conference and also to have a Con-
ference of their own, was aware that some of them
had come long distances and hoped they had en-
joyed the time and would feel paid for coming;
the work they were now doing was only a small
part of the greater things that would be expected
and would require all the strength of those en-
gaged in it, and spiritual intelligence would be
needed. The subjects introduced in the meeting
by Brother Lyman in regard to fast-offerings had
been given to the brethren of the priesthood in
their meeting which had convened that
morning. Pres. Richards continued by saying
the Lord expects and is going to require greater
works for us, the Savior said to his disciples
"greater because I go to my Father;" we all had
a natural tendency to look downward but we
should look upward and press onward. The
speaker then related the story of Ahab the
wicked king in a graphic manner that illustrated
a truth he wanted to impress upon the minds of
his hearers.
	"Your society, he said, had some delegates to
represent you in the Woman's National Council
at Washington last winter,their proceedings will
be published and have been already in the current
papers, and will be in the official pamphlet of the
Council when it is issued.
	We can't always dwell in swaddling clothes,
we haven't yet arrived at our manhood and wo-
manhood in all its glory. . Let the graces and
virtues of the Gospel blend with the good and the
bright women of the world, and if you keep the
good spirit and have a little salt to season those
who have not the grace of God and His spirit,
you may accomplish great good.
	"Evolutions and mutations are constantly bring-
ing about great changes and wonderful things,
and we shall have greater still before long. If
the sisters had not had the Relief Society many
would have been ready to lay down and die. It
has been a great spiritual blessing as well as giv-
ing help and comfort to the needy and distressed;
keep the Holy Spirit that quickens and purifies,
the swift waters, clear the stream and it does not
stagnate,disobedience to the Holy Spirit grieves it
from us.
	"The angel told Joseph his name should be
known for good and for evil throughout the earth
and so will we as a people; we are going to
shine before the world, Zion is increasing, the
bees are swarming, and every hive has to swarm;
the spirit of increase has been given to this peo-
ple and is taken from the world." Pres.Richards
also spoke earnestly of the importance of the
work for the redemption of the dead, and advised
those who were present to take home a little of
the good spirit and influence and teachings that
they had received and give it to their neighbors and
friends and take it to the local meetings that those
who had not the privilege of attending might
participate in some of its benefits.
	Counselor B. W. Smith occupled a few mo-
ments in speaking and prophesied concerning the
prosperity of Zion.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards addressed the
congregation briefly, alluding to the invitation
extended to President Woodruff and how feel-
ingly he had expressed himself in regard to the
Relief Society and his desire to be with them at
the meeting, but his absence was wholly unavoid-
able. He sent them his blessing and regrets that
he could not attend. Sister Richards said the
President as he held her hand said;"I'm very sorry

[Column 3]
I can't go but tell them God bless them and I
bless them, they have my blessing." Sister
Richards spoke tenderly to the mothers and said
she realized how difficult it often was for them to
leave home, to attend their meetings even though
they needed the instruction.
	Sister Zina gave the testimony of Pres. Young
in regard to the mothers paying tithing and
added this fast day work, given here to-day re_
minded her of Pres. Young's teachings on the sub-
ject of tithing. Urged the mothers to teach this
little ones at home tell them Bible stories that
will teach them spiritual lessons. She blessed
all the sisters and said peace to your households,
wear the beautiful mantle of charity God bless
you all, Amen.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Singing
"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah,"
Benediction by Apostle F. D. Richards.


AMONG EASTERN WOMEN.

			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

	After speaking of the women who are the de
scendants of Isaac and Rebecca, our thoughts
naturally revert to the daughters of Ishmael,
whose tents whiten the Arabian desert. Al-
though they claim their descent from the same
father (Abraham) as the Hebrew women do, yet
they differ materially, in their proclivities, and
mode of life. The descendants of Ishmael are,
for the most part, Mohamedans, living in tents
upon the vast deserts of the East, as the bulk of
them do, they have seen less of the changes time
has wrought than have the banished, and
scattered descendants of Isaac, and though so
closely allied in blood they know less of each
other than any other people. Changes of fashion
either in household matters, or dress, trouble
them little, if at all, and while the Hebrews
despise, and dislike an agricultural life, the
Ishmaelites follow the primitive occupations and
manners of their forefathers, (viz.) the keeping of
numerous flocks and herds, and the tilling of
land for their support. The Jew is by nature a
trader, and thus accumulates wealth in the cities
of every known nation on earth; while the Arab
prefers a tent for his dwelling, finds his pleasures
in hunting, and fighting, and his occupation in
herding his flocks, and cultivating enough land
to grow grain for his support, and flax for his
clothing, and in these occupations he is assisted
by the women,as indeed he is in all others. The
highest ambition of these wanderers is to own a
well of pure water, for he who does so is counted
a wealthy man, and to him come his nomadic
brethren to buy the precious fluid for their own
use and to water their cattle. In many families
the key of the well is intrusted to the charge of
the daughters, and, like Rebecca they do not feel
it beneath their dignity to attend to the watering
of their own stock, or of those who come to buy.
	When we see these veiled figures at the well,
the mind iustinctively reverts to the fair woman,
which the servant of Isaac found attending to the
same duty, dressed in the same fashion, but with
face uncovered, and we could almost believe we
were living in that age of the world, and that
thousands of years had not elapsed since the
mother of Isreal left her father’s tent to become
the wife of Abraham's favored son, and the
ancestress of the Redeemer. To-day, as in those
ages past, the daughters of a Sheik, or chief, (for
the name is synonymous;) though they do not
grind the corn, or make the sweetmeats, for
which the Arabs are famous, yet they will go to
the well, wait while the herds are watered, re-
ceive the pay, and return to their tent, with the
stately bearing, and proud look that becomes
them so well; but no man sees their face, for the
law of Mohamet forbids a woman to go abroad


without her veil,which covers the face,except the
eyes, and though the long, dark, lashes appear to
conceal those dark orbs, yet they are adepts in the
use of them and well understand their power.
	Many of the Arab women are very beautiful
when young, and their figures are lithe and grace-
ful, but as age advances they grow very stout,
and are almost repulsive in features and man-
ner.
	Many of them can spin, and weave, the beauti-
ful parti-colored fabric with which both the men,
and women, among the wealthy, clothe them-
selves, as well as the course material that forms
the dress of the poor. Many among them are
very expert in the use of the needle, as the rich
and gorgeously embroidered scarfs worn by both
sexes, as well as the splendid trappings of their
horses, testify. In their features it is easy to
trace the lineage of both Abraham and Hagar.
	In some the Egyptian mother is strongly
marked both in looks and character. Where the
nose is broad, and lips thick, the skin is darker
hued, than in those where the Hebrew is strongly
represented.
	Many traveller's describe the Arab women as
living a life of idleness and ignorance, but that
is not my experience of them; of course the
climate does not admit of their being so active,
and full of bustle, as are the women who dwell
in colder climates, for even among their neigh-
bors, who live north of Hebron, we find them
leading more active lives,the air of the mountains
is more bracing, and invigorating, and stimulates
them to take more exercise than those who
dwell on the burning plains.
	Perhaps there is no more interesting sight to
the traveler, than to meet a tribe moving their
tents from one Oasis to nnother, literally seeking
“Fresh fields and pastures new." The women
mounted on camels are completly covered, and
from their peculiar positions when riding look
like huge mishapen bundles of clothes; they sit
in a heap for hours at a time, without apparent
movement or life, and yet beneath their calm ex-
terior often lurks the most fervent passions.
	Love, hatred and jealousy, have full play in the
hearts and lives of these closely guarded, yet but
lightly prized women; they have but little will of
their own, or if they have, they cannot use it,
they are but slaves, owned by hard masters; and
those masters ihey have no voice in choosing.
The parting blessings of Abraham to Hagar have
been literally fulfilled, for the descendants of
Ishmael are extremely numerous, and comprise
many nations. They live the same nomadic life
their ancestors lived; they are just as wild and
untameable, while beneath that stolid, exterior
smolders a fire that the merest spark will kindle
into a blaze that is difficult to extinguish. As we 
near the Persian Gulf we find them following the
religion of Zaroaster, occupying cities, and
villages, and living in that semi-civilized state
which that creed professes to teach.
	But whether they are better, or happier under
that regime, is a question somewhat difficult to
answer.
	One thing, however, is certain, and that is, that
women are not less slaves there, than are their
sisters of the desert, while the last named,
breathe a purer atmosphere, have more out door
exercise, and are under less restraint than those
who dwell in the cities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOW DO WE STAND?

	We find that in all the business affairs of life,
it is well to look over our accounts occasionally
and see how we stand. Well this being proper
in temporal matters is it not necessary to do the
same in the spiritual? I think so, and ask our-
selves, are we improving, as age and experience
should develop? In conversing with a friend I
am told this Gospel is the same precious gift

[Column 2]
that it ever was, the greatest comfort and conso-
lation, the one thing needful, the Pearl of great
Price? and she is proud of this Gospel.
	I feel to say the same with her with the excep-
tion of being proud; this to me is a fearful word
to use in spiritual matters and not becoming to
saints on any terms.
	In the first place we did not make this religion,
we embraced it, believing it to be exactly the
same that Jesus taught, and as we live in ac-
cordance with its teachings we know it is; be-
cause when we serve Him in all humility and
truth, then the Lord can show us His power to
do those things for us which are expedient, then
we are thankful we are happy and rejoice in the
gifts of the Gospel and the Apostle says again
I say rejoice! But does he say be proud. Are
humility and pride offsprings of the same parent?
Can both dwell in our bosoms at the same time.
	Not if I understand the word. Noah Webster
defines pride as being inordinate self-esteem;"
admitting this how quickly will vanity take
possession of our minds. Beside what does the
Apostle tell us in 2nd Corinthians 10 chap.and 15-
16-17 verses "Not boasting of things without our
measure, that is of other men's labors; but hav-
ing a hope when your faith is increased we shall
be enlarged by you, &c."	And in the 16 verse,
"boast not of another man's line of things made
to our hand;" 17th he says "He that glorieth let
him glory in the Lord."
	In my opinion, when we contemplate the two,
pride and humility, we find quite a difference.
When pride has possession of our minds, we are
so self-reliant that we do not fully appreciate the
aid of Divine assistance, we hurry on and make
mistakes until we see ourselves as we are, poor
dependent creatures. Then we can humble our-
selves and ask for aid and assistance, which the
humble saint will always receive; for then, and
not until then, do we feel our dependence. No
we have "power within ourselves, and must use
it."
	The prophet Mormon shows this so clearly, I
will here speak of his illustration. He had pre-
viously been speaking of the great battle at the
hill Cumorah. The Prophet Mormon in his
writings said he did not wish to harrow up the souls
of men, in casting before them the awful scene of
blood and carnage which was laid before his
eyes; but knowing that these things must surely
be made known, and that all things that are hid
must be revealed upon the house tops." I will
write a small abridgement.
	He also says in another place, "Thrice have I
delivered them out of the hands of their enemies
and they have not repented of their sins; but
they had sworn by all that man had been for-
bidden to swear, by the Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, they would go up to their enemies to
battle and avenge themselves of the blood of their
brethren; behold the voice of the Lord came to
me saying; "vengance is mine I will repay, and
because this people repented not, after I had de-
livered them, behold they shall be cut off from
the face of the earth."	Then Mormon refused to
be their leader, yet he mourns over their fall.
He said, "They, once a delightsome people, and
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father.	But now behold
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father. But now behold
they are led about by Satan, even as chaff is
driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed
about upon the waves, without a sail or an anchor
even as she is, so are they.
	Now look at the contrast, even like that of king
Solomon who had been so greatly blessed  with
wisdom when in possession of God's spirit,but too
self-reliant thinking this spirit was his, no matter
what course he pursued, He forgot the word of
the Lord given through His prophet Moses say-
ing that "Thou shalt not go into those idolatrous
nations; and they shall not come unto you." He
ventured to go, and what was the result, he lost

[Column 3]
the good spirit, and then all was vanity and vexa-
tion of spirit. As we learn to appreciate health
by having the opposite, in the same way we learn
all the lessons of life, and also learn that we need
wisdom's heavenly voice, to guide us.
	Dignity and self-respect, I believe to be a boon
that we inherit from the Deity our Father in
heaven. And by its purifying influence, we ask
Him for intelligence, yes, a wise and understand-
ing heart to make all the lessons of life profit-
able to us. You can learn from reading history
that those who were wise and prosperous rulers
had a great respect for the Deity, and could rely
upon the inspiration of this good spirit, and be
blessed by it, and bless others also.
	But in my opinion pride is as different from
this as day is from night, for by it we allow
foolish and vain fancies to take possession of our
minds which dignity and self-respect would for-
bid. For instnace, we fancy we must keep up
with the spirit of the times, or not be popular;
while dignity and self-respect teach us, that to
be honorable or honest, upright and true to our
convictions of that which is right or (righteous
as you may choose to call it) will command re-
spect from every honest-hearted person.
	And why should we mourn the loss of those
who are not of this class.
	May we learn the difference between these two
qualities is the prayer of your Aged Friend
					MARY E. KIMBALL.


R. S. REPORTS.

			SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the San Juan Stake was held at
Bluff, Feb. 22, 1891. Coun. Martha Hammond
presiding. Choir sang “Hail to the brightness,”
Prayer by Coun. Wm. Halls. Singing “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Coun. Hammond
regretted that Pres. Jane M. Walton was not
present, but felt sure she had a reasonable
excuse.
	In the absence of the Stake Secretary Sister
Annie M. Lyman was sustained as secretary
of the conference.
	Pres. Kistine Neilson reported the Bluff
ward. Stake Coun. Josephine Wood felt that
the Relief Society was doing a great work and
wished to do her part. Felt encouraged by
what she had heard during conference; knew
that a mother needed to be humble and prayer-
ful so as to claim help from the Lord.
	Bishop Geo. Halls reported the Mancos
ward. Said that on account of the bad weather
the sisters could not go out to meetings at all 
times, but they are alive to their duties and
anxious to do their best.
	Sister Agnes Allen bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, spoke upon kindness and
charity. Sister Eliza Redd felt well in the
work of the Society and wished to do good;
knew that mothers ought to thoroughly under-
stand the principles of the Gospel.
	Bishop Neilson testified that the Relief
Society was a help to the ward, and wished to
encourage the sisters; compared the circum-
stances that surrounded him in his young days
with those that surround the young people in
Utah.
	Sister Elsa Neilson bore her testimony to
the truth, and to the good instructions we had
received.
	Sister Harriet Ann Barton felt proud of the
sisters of Bluff for she knew they desired to
do right and they entertained good feelings to-
wards each other. Coun. Wm. Halls thought
that women ought to have an equal right with
men in saying who should preside over them.
Prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors
among the saints.
	Pres. Hammond testified that a goodly por-
tion of the spirit of God had been enjoyed by


those who had spoken. Said he had been in-
terested in what had been said. Although the
sisters felt weak they were able to say some-
thing to edify and encourage. Wished to en-
courage the sisters to speak their ideas freely
and cultivate the gift of speaking, for as a
natural consequence the gift would be im-
parted to their offspring. The Relief Society
is as a normal school for the sisters and every
mother should be a live active member of the
association. Advised the officers to attend the
general conference and mingle with the heads
of the different organizations.
	The general and stake officers of the Relief
Society were then sustained.
	Coun. Martha Hammond said there had
been some talk of not holding conference be-
cause of the absence of the President and rep-
resentatives from other wards but was glad
that conference had been held and knew that
we had obtained a blessing. 
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, choir sang "Come O thou king of
kings." Benediction by Brother Samuel
Wood.
		ANNIE M LYMAN, Sec., pro tem.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Sixth conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake of Zion convened in the Ashley
meeting house, March 2, 1891. President
Sarah Pope presiding. Singing "Guide us O
thou great Jehovah;" prayer by Pres. Samuel
R. Bennion; singing "Come, come ye saints."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Pres. Pope spoke of the bad roads
and ways some had to come, said "we have
visited the different wards since our last con-
ference and found the most of the sisters try-
ing to do as well as they can considering the
disadvantages they are laboring under, but
nevertheless we must try and do all we can
for the needy, we must not forget the aged, the
widow and the orphan, some of the parents of
these children have stepped  behind the veil,
and their children are left here and we must
look after them; sisters we must look after our
children and do the best we can with them
while they are under our care, it is an old say-
ing the way 'the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined,' but this is not always the case, some
times children are taught good principles at
home but when they get away they do very
different from what they have been taught.
Let us keep the commandments of God while
we are here on the earth so that we shall be
prepared to die, for when we are prepared to
live we are prepared to die, and when we are
prepared to die we are prepared to live. I
feel like saying God bless my sisters this morn-
ing and may He give us his spirit to be with
us is my prayer, Amen.
	Reports were read from four different
branches of the Relief Society; after which
Sister Sarah Coltron gave the sisters some
good instructions Sister Collett spoke in-
terestingly to the sisters.
	Bishop Freestone gave the sisters good
counsel and asked the Lord to bless them in
their labors.
	Sister R. Remington was more accustomed
to speaking to the young ladies but felt to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work
and asked the Lord to bless all the associa-
tions in His church and kingdom. Sister
Oaks was pleased to think she was numbered
with the Latter-day saints, spoke of the differ-
ence between our circumstances now and when
we came here, how much more comfortable
we are at present than we were at that time;
asked the Lord to continue to bless us.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing,
"Come O thou king of kings." Benediction
by Pres. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,

[column 2]
"Once more my soul the rising day," prayer
by Bishop Oplynop, singing, "Let those who
would be saints indeed," followed by the re-
maining reports.
	Coun. Hatch said we should try to teach
our children in the way they should go and
follow the path of virtue and we never should
speak evil of each other, but rather feel to
encourage each other, and we should as wives
and mothers be kind at home that our children
should feel that home is the dearest place on
earth.
	Brother James Hacking said the sisters re-
marks here to-day have caused me to reflect
upon many things; I feel to endorse what
has been said, there has been great improve-
ment made in many ways in the different as-
sociations in the Church. We often when we
meet speak of our children, we are very anxious
for their welfare, we should try to instil into
their young minds good principles, the prin-
ciples of virtue, honesty and truth; I think
the labors of the sisters in the Relief Society
result in a great deal of good.
	Brother R. S. Collett thought we ought to
have a good time we had come a long way in
the mud; spoke of the difference in peoples'
dispositions, spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters told them they should always have their
children blessed while young, as that blessing
would follow them; spoke quite lengthy on
different subjects which were very interesting. 
Sister Freestone thought we should send our
children to the Primary meetings and Sunday
Schools that they may grow up to be useful
men and women on the earth; counseled the
sisters to beware of pride for it is not right to
be proud nor yet to uphold our children in
being proud, hoped she would be able to hold
out faithful to the end.
	Pres. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks and conference adjourned until the first
Monday in September. Sung, "Lo the Gentile
chain is broken." Benediction by Brother
Joseph H. Gardner.
				ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

SPEECH BY E. R. SNOW.

	Eighth meeting of Relief Society, Sugar
House Ward, at the residence of A. C. Pyper
July. 29th, 1868, S. E. Angell, Secretary.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Mrs. Ann S.
Clark. Miss Eliza R. Snow being present by
invitation, addressed the sisters as follow:
	"We have met in the capacity of a Relief
Society. I consider this a matter of great im-
portance. A Society of this kind has always
existed whenever the priesthood has been
upon the earth, and the allusion of the Apostle
to the Elect Lady as recorded in the New
Testament, means the one who presided over
 each Society in his day. Miss Snow said she
had brought with her the original minutes of
the meeting of the society at Nauvoo or-
ganized by the Prophet Joseph Smith from
which she read a few extracts; she said be not
over zealous, but remember that the wants of
the poor in spirit are to be deplored more
than the wants of the body, The duties of the
members of this Society are extensive, our
minds are liable to be led off, it is necessary
that we meet together often to stir up our
minds to diligence; this organization gives us
an opportunity to meet legally,it is not a mere
plaything but a sacred holy duty, under the
direction of your Bishop, do not run to him
with every trifle. Those called to be teachers
ought to be filled with the Holy Ghost that
when they enter a house they will know by the
spirit who in that house has the Holy Ghost
and who has not, some may think this an
indifferent office, but this is a mistake, and
when you visit do not be abrupt, but apply
your words in a manner which will prove

[Column 2]

beneficial to those to whom you speak, and
if they have lost their first love tell them of
the joy and peace that dwells in the hearts of
those who live up to their privileges and in
blessing others you will be blessed; we pro-
fess to be saints! what a high and holy call-
ing! we are looking forth to the time when we
shall become heirs of God and joint heirs with
Jesus Christ. The Garden of Eden was in
Jackson County Mo., when Adam and Eve
were driven out they went North. I have seen
with my natural eyes the Altar on which
Adam offered his first sacrifice, where he
blessed his children, and there is where we
shall meet the Savior face to face. The
celestinl law must be kept by those who go
there, and no one can go there, who does not
keep the word of wisdom, or is in any way un-
prepared for the society of God and the holy
angels; these are not visionary ideas, but
realities. There are many of the sisters
whose labors are not known beyond their
own dwellings and perhaps not appreciated
there, but what difference does that make? if
your labors are acceptable to God, however
simple the duties, if faithfully performed, you
should never be discouraged. The duties of
this society cannot be defined, those who will
not swerve from their duty are to become
saviors on Mount Zion. God is looking down
upon you, the angels are recording your secret
acts; and while you are here acting, you are
not expected to neglect your family duties.
You will feel so much better by attending to
these things, that you will gain time, and if
you are united in your efforts you will have
the blessing of God when you meet; in attend-
ing to these duties be careful that you bring no
reproach on the society. Our brethren are to
be kings, are we qualified for the positions of
queens? Let us pray daily, and try to become
more refined and womanly and bring up our
children to be polite and refined, that they
may be useful ornaments to society. This
society gives us a chance to improve our minds
and qualify ourselves to fill important posi-
tions.
	In Society President Young purposes to get
up classes for the sisters similar to the school
of the prophets; some sisters will not move for-
ward because they wish to go hand in hand
with the world; we should improve our talents
for the time will come when every faithful
man and woman will go forth like Adam and
Eve.
	This Society should find work for the poor
take no imposition, but let those who are able
sustain themselves; if we are called to suffer
affliction, God will sanctify it to us for our
good, if we want to be superfine flour we must
stand still and let the mill roll on. He can
overrule all things for our good; it is necessary
for us to taste affliction, that we may learn to
appreciate the blesaings of our Heavenly
Father, if we have not as much of this spirit
as we ought to have, live for it, for the spirit
of our religion brings peace; improve your
temporal affairs, endeavor to make home
happy, keep your children from vicious com-
pany; and while you study to dress them neatly
do not neglect to adorn their minds with those
principles which will tend to elevate and
enoble them, and prepare them for future
usefulness in the kingdom of our God.
	Benediction by E. R. Snow.


PRIMARY FAIR AND  CONFERENCE.

		BLUFF, SAN JUAN CO., UTAH.

	DEAR EDITOR:
	Thinking that a few lines about our Pri-
mary would be interesting to you and the
readers of the EXPONENT, I will try to tell


you something about it. We have enrolled
fifty-five members and our meetings are well
attended.
	On December 30th, we held a Primary Fair
which was a credit to the children and all
concerned. A nice assortment of things were
on exhibition, as every child made something.
After the people had viewed the things on ex-
hibition they were entertained by listening to
songs and recitations from the children who
afterwards enjoyed themselves in dancing.
	We held our Stake Primary Conference
Feb. 23rd. And on account of the stormy
weather none but the Bluff children were
present to take part in the exercises, yet, a
lengthy programme, which was instructive as
well as entertaining, was well carried out. At
the suggestion of President Hammond we met
again in the afternoon and received words of
instruction and encouragement from President
Hammond and others of the brethren. After
closing remarks by Stake President Julia Butt,
conference was adjourned for three months.
A short intermission was taken then all met
together for dancing and refreshments.
	We do not have to make the complaint that
is so common about the non-attendance of boys.
Our boys attend as regular as the girls and
seem to be just as willing to take part in the
exercises.
	Our President, Sister Josephine Wood, is a 
good, kind woman, and is greatly interested in
the duty assigned her.
				ANNIE M. LYMAN,  Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Addopted by the Officers and Members of the Meadow-
ville Relief Society. To the memory of the late Mrs.
Jennette Moffat, who died Jan. 12th, 1891.
	Whereas it hath pleased our Heavenly Father to call
to himself our esteemed friend and co-laborer Sister
Jennette Moffat,
	We the officers and members of the society, feel it a
duty incumbent upon us to express our appreciation, and
sympathy with the bereaved family, friends and relatives of
our dear sister whose brief illness and death has so shocked
us.
	Resolved—that in the death of Sister Moffat our Society
has lost one of its most reliable officers and members,
whose long term of office has been distinguished by
modesty and earnestness in the interests of the sick and
needy.
	Be it furthermore resolved—That these resolutions be 
entered on the Secretary's book, and a copy of them
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			ANN M. ELDREDGE, Pres.
			PRISCILLA L. KIMBALL, Sec.

IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Annie Christenson of Redmond, Seveir Coounty,
departed this life Jan. 29th, 1891. after a long and severe
sickness leaving a husband and four small children, also
other relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	Feb. 17th the oldest son Louis Christensen, aged ten
years, also left this world of care and trouble, the same as
his mother.
	While we esteem death as a glorious gate to a land of
joy and beauty, yet mortality whispers loneliness to the
loved ones left behind.
	But let ns look beyond the darkening wave, when we
are faithful, we again shall associate with those dear ones
gone before, never more to part.
	Sister Christenson was thirty years of age. She was a 
kind and patient wife and mother, and a consistent Latter-
day Saint.  She was also a teacher of the R. S., and we
shall miss her in her accustomed place. Considering all
this we as sisters tender our love, and deep sympathy to-
wards the bereaved husband and motherless children, and
pray our Heavenly Father to ever bless and console them
	In regard to absent oues, we know that our presen
loss will be eternal gain.
			MATILDA PETERSON, Pres.
			JOSEPHINE RASMUSSEN,
			MARIA MICKELSON,
				Counselors.

[Column 2]

IN HONORABLE REMEMBERANCE.
	Our beloved President of the Relief Society of Clarkston
Sister Mary Griffin, died Feb. 23, 1891, in Clarkston,
Cache Co., Utah. She was born Aug. 4, 1810, in Flyford
Flavel, Worcestershire, England, and was baptized in 1841,
in Naunton Beauchamp: emigrated to Utah in 1866; was
president of the Relief Society about ten years, which posi-
tion she filled with great satisfaction to all. She was loved
and respected by all who knew her. She was a kind and
loving mother and sister and friend in very deed. She was
very humble,yet habitually to her last always ready to give
a helping hand. She was a great help to the Bishop and
was able to help herself to the last. She assisted in making
three dresses last Christmas to cheer and comfort the poor,
though in her 81st year. She was reasonable to the last,
patient and happy, having seen in vision the Savior and the
glory of the other world, but said she could not tell us,
but she longed to go home. She sung many hymns and 
passed away in peace. And although we mourn yet we
rejoice,for we know our loss is her gain.

So peaceful and lovely in silence she lay,
A calm o'er her features, though cold the dear clay,
Faded the rosy cheek, chilled the warm breath,
'Twas thus we beheld our dear sister in death.

	She was followed to the grave by a long train of those
who loved her, there to await a glorious resurrection. She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint.  She has gone to reunite
with her beloved husband who died Feb. 4, 1880, also in
full faith of the Gospel. She leaves 3 sons 2 daughters and
28 grand children 4 great grand children and a host of
friends to mourn her loss.
	May her example be followed by her posterity and the
sisters over whom she presided; no doubt she was wanted
on the other side, sweet be her rest. Verily her good works
will live after her.
			SARAH K. BUTTERS.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton is again
called to mourn the loss of one near and dear
in the death of her sister Mrs. Bayard of New
York City.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.
	A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc., considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


[Column 1]
MISS KATE WELLS,
			STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.

[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup

WOMAN'S				DRESS GOODS,
CO-OPERATIVE			FANCY ARTICLES,
MERCANTILE and		DRESS MAKING for
MANUFACTURING		Ladies & Children,
INSTITUTION.			DRESS GOODS and
							TRIMMINGS,
						BURIAL SUITS. 
						123 E. 1st SOUTH
						Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

			Tickets
			ON SALE
			TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
		EAST, WEST,
	NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE
		Main Street, Salt Lake City.
					S. W. ECCLES,	
	Genl. Pass. Agt.

		R. K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
		Cash House.
		R. K. THOMAS

		Special to the Ladies.
		AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’  Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir

			DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Addrs DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Naitons.

