VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1891.	NO. 20.


CONTENTS.

	Mother, Home and Heaven—S. W. Richards.
Women in the Year 2000—Edward Bellamy.
Notes and News. Faith, Hope and Charity—M,
E. K. Far From Home—E. A. C. Watson. R.
S. Reports. N. A. W. S. A. of Utah Ter.—Ada
Croxall, Sec. In Memoriam. National-Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Convention. Miscellaneous.
The World's Fair. Notice.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference Edi-
torial Notes. The Woman's Relief Society.
Statement of the Lady Managers. Greeting.
"This Woman Beat Ingalls."
	POETRY:—A Sonnet—M. G. McClelland. In
Memory of Prest. Daniel H. Wells—Julia A.
Macdonald. Easter-Tide—Margaret E. Sangster.
The Mormon—Ella A. Gillan.


A SONNET.

"I love you"—ah! 'tis but a little thing,—
A sentence short, three tiny words,—and still,
Not poet's art, nor yet musician's skill,
Such wondrous happiness can bring
As these. O mystery-breathing spell,
Come to this heart of mine, and tell
The stories garnered through the years,
The hope made manifest, the tears
Checked at thy whisper, tender, sweet,
Soft as the wood-dove's cooing and complete
As life's fulfillment, or the grand dream
Of selfishness for love, God's master theme.
O soulful words, my spirit touch, and bring
The joy of life's celestial awakening.
		M. G. MCCLELLAND.


IN MEMORY OF PREST. DANIEL
H. WELLS.

	[By an humble admirer of his life and works, Salt Lake
City, Sunday, March, 29th 1891.]

	Silently weave him a spotless shroud,
	Oh, white-winged snow, this hallowed day!
	A shroud of ermine, soft and white,
	Set round with pearls and crystals bright;
	By rays reflected through rifted cloud
	As the Day-god takes his way.

	Daintily lift your beauteous heads,
	Snow-drop, crocus, and violet—
	Sweet harbingers of early Spring!
	Up through the snow your offerings bring;
	Deck thou the Hero's lowly bed
	With your blossoms, dewy-wet.

	Tenderly thou his requiem sing,
	Oh, feathered choir, with voices sweet;
	Now soft, now low, from tiny throats,
	Now full and clear the music floats.
	O'er hill and dale your praises bring,
	And lay them at his feet.

	Prayerfully enter the sacred fane,
	Friends of the brave, illustrious dead:
	Gaze once more, ere hid from view,
	On form and feature in life ye knew;
	Reverently asking we too may gain,
	The goal, by the path he led.

	Tenderly over the threshold bear
	The pale, unconscious form of clay—
	All that is left us of him we love!
	Freed from its trammels he lives above,
	Joyfully, tenderly greet him there,
	Friends of an earlier day.

	Peacefully lay in his narrow bed,
	E'en as a child that goes to rest,
	The Patriarch's form. His was a life
	Grand, consistent, with goodness rife;


Safe we can judge him with heaven wed,
Sure that our God knows best.

So weave a shroud of ermine;
Sweet birds, a requiem sing;
Lift up your heads, bright flowers—
A floral off'ring bring.
Let Zion's sons and daughters,
Their hearts and voices raise,
In sweetest song and music,
A noble man to praise.
And ye, his friends and brethren,
Grown aged in the fight;
For tribute of true friendship
To him, your hearts unite.

Last, and to him, the dearest, 
Fond children, loving wives,
God's comfort be upon you,
Throughout your future lives.
Until your labors finished,	
And earth's career at end,
You meet, in radiant mansions,
Your father and your friend.
					JULIA A. MACDONALD.


MOTHER, HOME AND HEAVEN.

		BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	It has been said the three dearest words in
our language are Mother, Home, and Heaven.
Not in view of questioning the absolute truth
of this assertion, but for the purpose of giving
it due recognition I give it a brief considera-
tion.
	There is in fact both truth and propriety in
the order in which these words appear.
Mother is first, from the simple fact that there
can neither be home nor heaven in their com-
pleteness without mother.
	This is not a startling assertion when we
consider that these terms are used as applicable
to the mind of man, and all men are—have
their being, because of the labor and kindly
offices of mother. Where mother is there is
home, and every child under the smiles and
influence of mother’s love may cherish hopes,
and foretaste the joys of both home and
heaven.
	That happy joyous home, with mother’s
presence blest, and virtuous influence felt, is
truly a delightful foretaste of the joys of that
heaven which is beyond—that everlasting
home which is so earnestly desired—because
mother has taught us here that home, in its
true significance, implies all that can be de-
sired by the human soul. To be at home
with all of home’s delights, implies the happi-
ness of heaven, the soul’s full feast of bliss.
	Of the earthly home, where the hopes of the
eternal are in mother’s genial rule supremely
radiant,the poet’s language is but true, that
		“Heaven on earth is now begun."
	To be the“mother of all living”is an office,by
whomsoever filled, of no mean import, and in-
volves a labor embracing the most responsible
duties of human existence. It is within the
plan of the divine government, and of the
creation, that it shall be the duty of some one
or more, to receive each human being on its
entrance into life and provide for its nurture
and education. God could not fail to throw
upon some one the important duty of receiving
and training the immortal spirit for its work
here on earth, and its employments in an antici-
pated future.
				*	*	*

[Column 2]
	Thus the family becomes a necessity, grow-
ing out of the relation of husband and wife,
and while the father devotes his attention to
the more stern and rigid labors necessary to
provide food for the body, the mother has the
exalted duty of looking after the spiritual de-
velopment, by which the child is stimulated
to love and duty, thought and affection, which
bring into play all our emotional nature, all
our kindly feelings. all those dear charities
which grow up around our homes. Love of
mother grows up in the child with the life he
draws from her breast, under these conditions;
but let a child grow up without home and
mother, and love is not there. No man or
woman was ever duly educated, upon whose
mind has not been brought to bear the love,
the tender sympathy and influence of mother,
to mould and develop the affections of the
soul.
	The father, mother and child, are necessary
to the realization of all that home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home be what
God has designed it should be— the nursery
of the human soul; and when we scan the
duty and responsibilities of mother, we must
say, she constitutes the link that binds father
to son, the temporal to the spiritual, the
spiritual - the soul of man—to God; conse-
quently, no home on earth or in heaven can
be complete in its emotional development and
enjoyment without mother.
	Next to mother comes home. It is the earthly
type we have of heaven. How sweet the word!
What beautiful and tender associations cluster
thick around it! It warms the heart, and stirs
the very soul of man to love its quickening
impulse. It has inspired with courage and
patient endurance, the careworn sons of toil,
both on sea and land, and the very thought
of home has been a shield to virtue, and
brought back many a wanderer from the
paths of vice.
	The believer delights to think of heaven as
a home. He associates with with it all that im-
parts a sacredness to the homes of earth; and
more—all that imagination can picture of
happiness and bliss, without pain or sorrow;
freed from all life’s ills, and radiant with the
divine presence and glory that shall eclipse
the noonday sun, and fill every possible de-
sire for the immortal beatitudes, and riches of
an endless life.
	Mothers who do their duty to children
when young, and make the virtues of Gospel
truth the first impress upon the infant mind,
are the real saviors of men. I do not say re-
deemers, but saviors; preserving them in the in-
nocence with which they received them, with
the assurance 'that a child trained in the way
he should go, when old, will not depart from
it.’ Though they may stray from home they
will return to it. Though they may be from
heaven, they will come there again, with an
everlasting recognition and appreciation of
mother's love and care. Who would not be a
savior upon Mount Zion—a loving mother—
an efficient co worker with man’s Redeemer?
MOTHER first, then Home and Heaven.


Mrs. Esther T. Housh, state president of the
Vermont W. C. T. U., who is now on the edi-
torial staff of the Household, has been con-
tributing to the Union Signal a series of
articles on Dorothea Dix.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN THE YEAR 2000.

			BY EDWARD BELLAMY.
	(Author of "Looking Backward," etc., etc.)
	It is assumed that the year 2000 will
see Nationalism fully established as the basis
of the industrial system and of society, so far
as dependent upon it. Judging from the
signs of the times, I think it would be quite
safe to make the date seventy-five years earlier,
but for the benefit of those weak in the faith
it is set well ahead. As there are doubtless
some who do not understand very clearly what
Nationalism is, it may be well enough just
here to explain, so far as may be done in a
phrase, that it proposes turning over all the
business of the country to a single firm, of
which all the people, women as well as men,
shall be employess,and in the proceeds of which
all shall be equal partners. Leaving wholly
aside, for the present purpose, all explana-
tions as to the details of this plan, and all
questions as to its feasibility, it is simply
proposed to point out certain ways in which
the position of women would be affected by
its successful introduction.
	We are to suppose that every adult woman
in the United States—while required, like
every adult man (except as modified by sex
conditions), to perform some self-elected
useful work—had coming to her a regular
annual income in the form of credit, to be
expended as she pleased, equal say, to the
present purchasing power of $1,000, $3,000 or
$5,000,more or less,according to the prosperity
of the national firm, said income to be the
same in amount with that received by her
brother, husband, or father, but not to come
to her through them or through any other
intermediary, but directly from the national
administration, as a matter of constitutional
right.
	Now, considering the fact that woman,
owing to her comparative physical disqualifica-
tions as a worker, has hitherto been, as a rule,
wholly or partially dependent upon the favor
or affection of men for the means of a secure
and comfortable existence, it is evident that a
system like that described would, by render-
ing her entirely independent of men in this
respect, make a great alteration in her posi-
tion.
	Obviously the most important single re-
spect in which it would be altered would be
as to her attitude toward marriage. She
would no longer be obliged, as most women
now are, to look forward to marriage as offer-
ing, if not absolutely her only means of support,
yet at least as constituting her main hope of a
secure and comfortable life. The only possible
motive which would then impel her to give
herself to a man would be that she loved him.
May and December might still mate. Beauty
might still wed the Beast,but the sourest cynic
would no longer be able to attribute an un-
worthy motive to the bride. However sordid
she might become under temptation,then there
could be none, for not only would she be un-
der no necessity of marrying at all, but the
wealth of all her possible suitors being the
same, she could have no motive, save love or
admiration for marrying one more than another.
	Not only, however, would Nationalism guar-
antee woman dignity and independence before
marriage, but equally afterward. That event
in no way would affect her rights as a citizen
and a partner in the national concern. 	The
humiliation of complete pecuniary depen-
dence upon their husbands, of being obliged to
ask for all they have, beyond bare bread and
meat, which the best and noblest of wives
now have to endure, the wife of the year 2000
would never know.
	Let us suppose, on the other hand, that her
heart, remaining untouched, she had preferred
to remain single.

[Column 2]
	At the present time, a popular presumption
exists that all girls wish to marry, and fail to
do so because they lack an eligible opportunity.
This presumption exists on account of the ob-
vious fact that women, being able with diffi-
culty to support themselves, have in general a
greater material interest in marriage than men
have. Surely there can be few incidents
of an unmarried woman's condition more
exasperating than her knowledge that because
this is the undeniable fact it is vain for her to
expect to be popularly credited with the volun-
tary choice of her condition. She must en-
dure with a smile, however she may rage with-
in, the coarse jest or innuendo to which it
would be worse than vain to reply. National-
ism, by establishing the economic independence
of women, without referring to their single
or married state, will destroy the presumption
referred to by making marriage no more ob-
viously desirable to one sex than to another.
	Would you gain a realization of the position
of the "old maid" in the year 2000? If so,
look at the lordly bachelor of to-day, the hero
of romance, the cynosure of the drawing room
and of the promenade. Even as that bright
being, like him self-poised,sorely insouciant,free
as air, will the "old maid" of the year 2000 be.
It is altogether probable, by the way, that the
term "old maid" will by that time have fallen
into disuse.
	But while the unmarried woman of the year
2000, whether young or old, will enjoy the
dignity and independence of the bachelor of to-
day, the insolent prosperity at present enjoyed
by the latter will have passed into the salutary,
if sad, eclipse. No longer profiting by the
effect of the pressure of economic necessity
upon woman, to make him indispensable, but
dependent exclusively upon his intrinsic attrac-
tions, instead of being able to assume the
fastidious airs of a sultan surrounded by
languishing beauties, he will be fortunate if he
can secure by his merits the smiles of one.
	In the year 2000 no man, whether lover or
husband, may hope to win the favor of maid
or wife save by desert. While the poet, justly
apprehending the ideal proprieties, has always
persisted in representing man at the feet of
woman, woman has been, in fact, the depen-
dent and pensioner of man. Nationalism will
justify the poet and satisfy the eternal fitness
of things by bringing him to his morrow-bones
in earnest. But, indeed, we may be sure that
in the year 2000 he will need no compulsion to
assume that attitude.
	It implies no disloyalty to the womanhood
of to-day to believe that the personal dignity
and moral freedom,unkown before to her sex,
which will be the birthright of woman in the
twentieth century, can not fail to react most
favorably upon herself, ennobling her graces,
clothing with a new majesty her beauty, and
making her every way more worthy than ever
before of the reverence and devotion of man.
	There is another and profoundly tragic as-
pect of the relation of the sexes, which by no
means may be passed over in considering what
Nationalism will do for womanhood. The
same economical pressure which brings the
mass of women into a relation of dependence
upon men, rendered more or less tolerable
according to the degree of mutual affection, re-
duces a great multitude of women, who are
not fortunate enough to find adequate mascu-
line support, to a form of slavery more morally
degrading than any other, and more complete
in its indignity. The most ancient form of
bondage,which has grown up with the race and
flourishes to-day in the face of civilization and
Christendom as widely and vigorously as ever,
which no wisdom of the economist, no zeal of
the philanthropist has ever availed to  dimin-
ish, Nationalism, by the necessary operation of
its fundamental principle, will at once and for-
ever extirpate. Want on the one hand will

[Column 3]
then no longer drive the virtuous woman to
dishonor, nor on the other will wealth, in the
hands of unscrupulous men,tempt her frivolous
sister.—From Ladies' Home Journal.


LAWRENCE BARRETT.

	Lawrence Barrett, the actor, is dead; died
of heart failure said the telegrams which
flashed the sad news over our country. If he
died from heart failure, he died as he wished
he might, without struggle or pain. It is to
be hoped that his beautiful life ended peace-
fully. Mr. Barrett did more to elevate the
American stage than any living actor. He
was a student, a lover of art, a lover of poetry
a lover of home. He was pure in his thoughts,
clean in his speech, an example in manners,
and cheerful in disposition. Mr. Barrett was
great both as an actor and a man. He was
one of the most generous men I ever knew;
no needy soul was ever turned from his door
with "no." He was lovable, his neighbors
loved him, his friends worshipped him, his
family adored him.
	I asked him one day if he did not get tired
seeing the curtain rise and fall. "no," he
said; "on the contrary, I like to see it, but it
always reminds me of a day when it will fall
for the last time to me; but you know with my
faith, it will no sooner fall closing in the dark-
ness and silence of death's night, than it will rise
in the brightness of the morning." He has gone
into the darkness and stillness of the night;
may his rest be sweet. He will live in the
hearts of his family as a lover, in the pro-
fession as a great actor, in art as a reformer,
in society as a cultured man, and in the world
as a philanthropist.
	Peace to his ashes, progress forever to his
spirit.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A delegation from eighty Women's Liberal
Associations lately waited upon Mr. Gladstone
and asked him to support the bill allowing wo-
men to serve on county councils. Mr. Gladstone
answered that the principle was all right, and 
that he did not think there would be much 
opposition to the measure. 
	The recently appointed executive committee
of the Board of Lady Managers for the World's
Fair met in Chicago, April 8. Mrs. Potter 
Palmer divided the country into four parts of 
equal population, and selected six ladies from
each part to form the executive committee
which consists of Mrs. Jonas H. French, Boston;
Miss Ives, New Haven, Ct.; Mrs. Amy M. 
Starkweather, Pawtucket, R. I.; Miss Ellen
Ford, New York; Miss Mary E. Busselle,
Newark. N. J.; Miss Mary McCandless, Pitts-
burg; Mrs. William Reed, Baltimore; Mrs.
Newton Linch, Martinsburg, W. Va.; Mrs. 
John A. Logan, Washington; Mrs. Susan C. 
Cook, Knoxville, Tenn.; Miss Nellie E. Beck,
Tampa, Fla.; Mrs. Mary C. Cantrell. George-
town, Ky.; Mrs. James P. Eagle, Little Rock,
Ark.; Miss Shakespeare, New Orleans; Mrs. 
Rosine Ryan, Austin, Texas; Mrs. Virginia 
C. Meredith, Cambridge City, Ind.; Mrs.
Edward L. Bartlett, Santa Fe; Mrs. Sarah S. 
C. Angell, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Henry M. 
Shepard, Chicago; Miss O. E. Miller, Cedar
Rapids, Iowa; Mrs. Francis B. Clarke, St. 
Paul; Mrs. John S. Briggs, Omaha; Mrs. E. 
W. Allen, Portland, Oregon; Mrs. Solomon
Thatcher, Jr., Chicago.


If you want to be miserable think about
yourself—about what you want, what you
like, what respect people ought to pay to
you, and what people think of you.—Charles
Kingsley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EASTER-TIDE.

O, rare as the splendor of lilies,
	And sweet as the violet's breath,
Comes the jubilant morning of Easter,
	A triumph of life over death;
For fresh from the earth's quickened bosom
	Full baskets of flowers we bring,
And scatter their satin-soft petals
	To carpet a path for our King.

We have groped through the twilight of sorrow,
	Have tasted the Marah of tears;
But lo! in the gray of the dawning
	Breaks the hope of our long silent years,
And the loved and the lost we thought perished,
	Who vanished afar in the night,
Will return in the beauty of spring-time
	To beam on our rapturous sight.

Sweet Easter-tide pledges their coming,
	Serene beyond trouble and toil,
As the lily upsprings in its freshness
	From the warm, throbbing heart of the soil.
And after all partings, reunion,
	And after all wanderings, home;
Oh, here is the balm for our heartache,
	As up to our Easter we come !

In the countless green blades of the meadow,
	The sheen of the daffodil's gold
In the tremulous blue on the mountains,
	The opaline mist on the wold,
In the tinkle of brooks through the pasture,
	The river's strong sweep to the sea,
Are the signs of the day that is hasting
	In gladness to you and to me.

So dawn in thy splendor of lilies,
	Thy fluttering violet breath,
O jubilant morning of Easter,
	Thou triumph of life over death!
For fresh from the earth's quickened bosom
	Full baskets of flowers we bring,
And scatter their satin-soft petals
	To carpet a path for our King.
		MARGARET E. SANGSTER in Harper's Basar.


THE MORMON.

Roll back, oh flight of time, to other years,
Gaze on the past through mist of blinding tears;
Dwell on the laws of ancient prophecy;	
Prepare thy soul for all eternity.

Oh, Mormon, thy lot seems ever hard to bear,
Thrust in the gloom of deep despair:
Thy powers usurped and all the laws o’erthrown,
Thou art environed, no sympathy is shown.

Severed from ties dearer to thee than life,
Torn from thy hearth in bitterness and strife;
And all thy years of labor and of gain
Are swept away and all thy struggles vain.

When thou didst take possession of this land,
'Twas but a barren waste, a wide expanse,
With hostile foe to quell and chance thy fate,
With naught to do but labor and to wait.

And thou did'st labor long and labor well,
Or was thy heart ere known to once rebel 
From early morn until the close of day,
Still labored on to keep the wolf at bay.

And with thy skill and patience all those years,
Endowed with strength to overcome thy fears,
Thou would’st have gained the victory benign,
Unbiased in thy thoughts and love divine.

But here a change comes o’er thee like a pall,
Thou art compelled to drink life’s bitter gall,
The soul doth yearn for freedom’s cause sublime,
The foe has wrought their evil power's design.

			THE GENTILE

We gloat upon this wondrous growing town,
We now rejoice we put the Mormons down;
'Tis not enough to take their homes away,
But with our laws compel them to obey.

We take from them their church enshrined with care,
Quiessence of the soul in solemn prayer;


The Mormon Temple of the throne of grace,
We give it back as hire their sacred place.

Ah, Gentile, restore to them their house of God,
Its founder lying now beneath the sod;
And of his chosen band I grieve to say,
We have ensnared and found an easy prey.

Roll on, oh, flight of time to coming years,
Seraphic forms will chase away thy fears;
Around the throne of fair elysiums shrine,
Thou wilt be blessed, oh, Mormon soul divine.
				ELLA A. GILLAN, a Gentile.


FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	This subject is most beautifully illustrated
by the angel Moroni, or prophet as you may
choose to call him. I will say, however, it was
Moroni who had charge of the records and
gave them to the prophet Joseph Smith. And
I believe it to be the same one whose words
are recorded here.
	Moroni says "if you have not faith in Christ
then ye are not fit to be numbered among the
people of His church. And again my beloved
brethren I would speak unto you concerning
hope.
	"How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save
ye shall have hope? And what is it that ye 
shall hope for? Behold I say unto you, that
ye shall hope, through the atonement of  Christ
and the power of His resurection, to be raised
unto life eternal."
	"And this because of your faith in Him
according to the promise; wherefore; if a man
have faith, he must needs have hope."
	"And again I say unto you, he can not have
faith and hope save he shall be meek and lowly
of heart; if so his faith and hope is vain; for
none are acceptable before God, save the meek
and lowly of heart, and confesses, by the power
of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he
must needs have charity; for if he have not
charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs
have charity.
	"Charity suffereth long, and is kind, and
envieth not, is not puffed up, seeketh not her
own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil,
and rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in 
the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, hopeth all things, endureth all things;
wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have
not charity ye are nothing, for charity never
faileth."
	"Wherefore cleave unto charity which is the 
greatest gift of all, for all things must fail;
but charity is the pure love of Christ, and it
endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed
of it at the last day, it shall be well with
them."
	"Wherefore my beloved brethren pray unto 
the Father with all the energy of your heart,
that ye may be filled with this love which he
hath bestowed upon all who are true followers
of His Son Jesus Christ, that ye may become
sons of God, that when He shall appear we
shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He
is, that we may have this hope, that we may be
purified even as he is pure. Amen."
	Book of Mormon page 556, Sec. 7, begining
at the 4th verse.
	It seems that St. Paul and Moroni see this
subject alike; which they would not fail to do,
both being in the possession of the same
spirit.
							M. E. K.


FAR FROM HOME.

	This is a lovely Sabbath day,the elements are
so beautifully calm and pleasant, seeming to
add a sublimity to the day of days, when we
are commanded to rest from worldly cares and
keep holy this the Lord’s day.
	Perhaps some may deem me weak-minded,


but whenever my hands and mental faculties
cease to perform the labors of the week, my
mind instantly flees to dear, dear “Utah the
queen of the West,” how I love her beautiful
vales and my heart yearns for the blessed
privileges and associations so oft enjoyed “in
the land of my choice.” When a little girl I left
the country of my birth with my father, he
desiring to dwell in a land where he could be-
lieve and live in accordance with his real con-
victions; now I’m a woman and have little
girls of my own, we leave that haven of peace
and religious freedom, because we have so be-
lieved and lived. Ah, Time! why these
changes ! I only ask that I may have grace to
sacrifice and submit resignedly. Since my
last communication I have traveled northward
one hundred and thirty miles and find quite a
contrast in climate and surroundings generally.
It is much cooler here now than where I have
been during the wintry months, though the
hearts of those I have made the acquaintance
of here are just as warm as though they dwelt
in the sunny south. I have met with those
who were total strangers to me,yet showed con-
sideration and kindness far exceeding any an-
ticipation of mine; then too, when one is lo-
cated in sight of telegraph and stage coach,
the intervening distance between one and home
does not seem so great.
	Most of the Church organizations, Y. M.
and Y. L. Mutuals, Primary and R. S. are in
active operation here, though conducted some-
what differently from any I know of in Utah;
one good thing can be said of the Sabbath
school, its order could rarely be surpassed.
The Primary meetings are not running at
present on account of sickness of some of the
officers; there are two very sad cases here, both
being widows and their recovery is very doubt-
ful, one of whom is only about twenty years
of age. 
	Panaca is a prosperous, pretty little town,
the people marked with order and intelligence,
and the many bright faces of the children
make one feel quite in Mormondom, yet there
is something lacking, that I consider a loss or
disadvantage, they do not receive spiritual in-
struction direct from the leaders of our faith
as we have so often in Utah; the visit of an
Apostle is almost unthought of as being re-
alized. Were it possible, too, for the sister
workers in the Relief Society or any of the
L. D. S. women’s organizations to come and
see us that we might get personal advice from
our co-laborers at the head, it would build up,
infuse new light, ideas and hopes into the
labors of the sisters here, and bury the feeling
of being numbered with the slighted ones. Of
course there is a just cause for this remote
spot not enjoying this privilege, and, perchance
would not be considered so seriously by those
who had not so thoroughly sensed the benefit
derived from counsel and encouragement ad-
ministered with that love and power that those
in responsible positions possess.
	I watch and wait anxiously for the coming
of the paper,it being the main source of obtain-
ing any information of the movements of my
Utah sisters in the spiritual and heavenly
labors. 
					E. A. C. WATSON.
	Panaca, April 12,1891.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president of the Wimo-
daughsis, was given a reception last Saturday at
Indianapolis, by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and
the other ladies of the Propylaeum, the Wo-
man’s Club of that city. Miss. Shaw is now
filling engagements in Michigan. She will be
one of the speakers at the annual convention
and festival of the New England W. S. A.,
in May.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY., UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	APRIL     15,	1891.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The second Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held Tuesday, April 7, 1891, in the
large Tabernacle in this city Pres. Zina D. H.
Young presiding; Counselors B. W. Smith and
J. S. Richards were present on the stand also the
Treasurer M. I. Horne, Cor. Sec. E. B. Wells
Assistant Sec. Dr. R. B. Pratt and Pres. E. S.
Taylor of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Meeting opened with sining, “Lord we come
before thee now, &c.” Prayer by Mrs. Susan
Grant, continued by singing “Now let us rejoice
in the day of salvation.”
	Pres. Young made the opening address of wel-
come in her usual kindly manner, felt to pray
that our coming together might be profitable to
all, and that union and love and perfect harmony
might prevail; thought if we had brought with us
that heavenly garment, the mantle of charity, that
all would be greatly blest. “The eyes of the
world are upon us, let us set them a good ex-
ample, let us not crave worldly things but be
covetous of the things of God, my heart is full of
blessings for you my dear sisters I know you de-
sire to be fed with the bread of life,”
	Minutes of semi-annual Conference in Oct.
1890 read and accepted. Pres. Mary John re-
ported Utah Stake, Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear
Lake Stake, Counselor Ann C. Woodbury, St.
George Stake; Susanna Briggs of Lyman Town,
reported Bannock Stake, Counselor Elizabeth
B. Mitchell, Uintah Stake, Annie Bird reported
Cassia Stake, and referred to the Fair the sisters
of that Stake had held last fall, which made a
very good showing in various kinds of needle
and fancy-work and almost every thing that wo-
men and children could make or raise; quite a
sum of money had thus been raised to help in
starting their Stake Academy. Counselor Sarah
P. Crosby reported Panguitch Stake; Pres. Mary
A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, said, “it is a great
comfort to come here and listen to the good
things that have been said today. Last fall I
could not attend our Conference but I prayed for
you, at home we can look to the Lord when we
are about our work, Sister Eliza used to tell us to
go to meeting often, so we would be missed
when we were away. It is in the line of the
work of the Relief Society to wait upon the sick
and the distressed; and we are often detained at
home on account of these duties, but whoever
regrets doing for the poor and sick? We are
not left without the Holy Spirit, even though we
are kept from meeting. The Gospel is our joy,
and we are used to trials; (sometimes I think my
path is a little thorny) and we’ve always had
trials since the days of Nauvoo and some of us
before, I don’t know how much farther back; I
started for Missouri but did not get there was

[Column 2]
stopped on my way.” The speaker then alluded
to the hymns she loved and said she found great
comfort in the singing, referred to the beautiful
hymn “Nearer my God to thee,” and said, “it al-
ways seems to bring us nearer and we feel an
acceptance with Him, we must not forget to pray
and continue to ask the Lord to help us in our
labors. We had an excellent report of our
Society read at the General Conference." Mrs.
Richards then reported briefly and in an interest-
ing manner, her visit to Washington, referring in
terms of praise to the ladies, of the Council and
Convention, and how attentively she had listened
to the many good speeches and addresses that
were given and papers that were read, thought
the majority of the women interested in these
great organizations that were represented there
were working for reform and to elevate humanity
and to bring about a better state of things; com-
mended their energy and wished they had the
Gospel to help them.The speaker had taken great
pleasure in conversing with these ladies in rela-
tion to our position here and the work in our as-
sociations also; they always wanted to hear a
little more,and would say they had been mistaken
in regard to us, there was not much time to con-
verse with them as the meetings occupied nearly
all the time; they inquired if we were not going
to Mexico or the Sandwich Islands, she had in-
formed them we were going to stay, they thought
the Gentiles were crowding us out; they are
anxious to know more about us and by and bye
they will be coming to us. “Let us keep up our
organizations and not vary from the way in which
we have held our meetings and Conferences.
We calculate that our Relief Society will lead
off, it has been organized  forty years and we
don’t expect to be superceded, let us not be dila-
tory but energetic and the Lord will bless all our
efforts, and we must be ever mindful of the sick
and needy.”
	Pres. Young followed with a few remarks, re-
ferred to what had been said of the women of the
world, their labors and aspirations, spoke of the
part they were taking in the World’s Fair; said
we are blessed above all women; blest even
more than words cau express. The prince of
this world is on the alert, let him find no malice
nor unkindness nor hate in us; that beautiful
thought that came to me this morning as I stood
here about the mantle of charity, let us be
clothed with it;” the speaker urged the sisters to
send the children to the Primary and try to en
courage those who labored in these associations;
spoke of the First Presidency and the Apostles
having been invited to attend the Conference,
and that there would likely be some of them
present in the afternoon.
	The Treasurer of the Central Board, Mrs. M.
I. Horne read a report of the money donated from
the several stake organizations of the Relief
Society for representation at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington, and to defray
the expenses of sending delegates.
	Dr. Pratt then read the totals of the statisti-
cal and financial report of the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Richards made some explanation in re-
gard to the means expended at the Council, that
in addition to the fee for admittance, there were
appropriations to be made for different purposes
that were expected of the delegates, &c. Meet-
ing was adjourned until 2 p. m., singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,” benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
			[To be continued.]


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The “Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book" pre-
pared for use in the Suffrage Associations in
this Territory by the publishing committee of the
U. W. S. A. is for sale at this office and will be
sent to any address on receipt of order for any


number required. The songs are all suitable for
simple,well-known tunes and it is expected that
the book will be widely circulated and the songs
used to enliven the meetings. The publishing com-
mittee are anxious to dispose of the books in
order to pay for the printing and it is desirable
that the several associations should purchase a
sufficient number to dispose of in their respective
localities; price 10 cts. each. Address Office
WOMAN’S EXPONENT 25. E. South Temple St.
Salt Lake City.

	It seems to us a desirable thing that the women
of Utah should begin to consider what they can
do to help in making some representation in the
woman’s exhibit at the World’s Fair in Chicago,
in 1893. The time may seem a long way off
now but “time flies" and  if one wishes to do an
elaborate peice of work and do it well, it is best
to begin in season; none of course but the very
finest work of its kind will be suitable for a
World’s Fair. There are women in this Terri-
tory wno make exquisite lace aad who are in-
genious and skillful not only with the needle but
in many other departments of woman’s work;
even to the fine wood carving with a penknife etc.
Utah women are noted for industry, energy and
perseverance and should not be behind in mak-
ing a good showing on such a wonderful occasion
sa an event of so much importance as the great
World’s Fair of 1893. Considering Queen Isa-
bell’s connection with the discovery of America
women everywhere should do all in their power
to help in making the Fair a success.


THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

	[Paper read at the Woman's National Council
Washington D. C, Feb. 25, 1891.]
	The Women's Relief Society, with headquart-
ers in Utah and branches in adjoining states and
territories, has had nearly half a century of life
and earnest work.  Though operating in a
sparsely settled country and far removed from
the peculiar miseries known to large cities, the
society has had a vast field for its operations;
since the early poverty and privation of the peo-
ple with the consequent demands upon the time
and resources of men, have left domestic charity
almost exclusively to women. The general
officers of the central organization are Zina D. H.
Young, President; Jane S. Richards, First Coun-
selor; Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Counselor;
Snrah M. Kimball, Secretary; Romania B. Pratt,
Assistant Secretary; M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer; and Emmeline B. Wells Cor. Sec.
A branch of the society exists in nearly every
village of Utah and the surrounding region, also
in several of the other states of the Union, and in
Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, Scandi-
navia, the Sandwich Islands, Australia, New
Zealand and other foreign countries; each local
branch having its board of officers to correspond
with the general organization. Frequent confer-
ences keep alive the unity of the society and in-
sure the efficient system of its labors. There
are more than 400 of these branches, with a total
membership of about 25,000 persons. More than
one hundred thousand dollars worth of real
estate, consisting of halls, storehouses, granaries
etc., is owned by the organization. It has on
hand the following resources to be drawn upon
for charities and relief work:
	Fifty thousand bushels of wheat; twenty thou-
sand dollars worth of other property, consisting
of prodnce, clothing, household goods etc., and
fifteen thousand dollars in cash.  As fast as these
resources are consumed, they are replenished by
the contributions of members. The Society
maintains a large hospital, the chief physician of
which is Mrs. Dr. Pratt, a graduate of eastern
medical schools and a prominent member of the
society. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, herself an


enthusiastic worker of the Society, edits and
publishes the WOMAN'S EXPONENT which is the
recognized organ of the association.
	Primarily, and as its name implies the Women's
Relief Society is an organization for the purpose
of benevolent work. To this end, it seeks out the
sick and the needy, without regard to creed, and
ministers to their wants. It provides food, cloth-
ing and shelter for the destitute, and gives nurses
to the sick. It provides safe employment for
worthy women; and supplies good homes, rai-
ment and education to impoverished orphans.
It is an active worker in the cause of temperance
and an uncompromising foe to the dram-shops
and the liquor dealer. In the success of its be-
nevolent and temperance labors, it has gone be-
yond any limited sphere and has accomplished
notable results for the general elevation of wo-
man. Eor instance, it has trained a large nnm-
ber of its members in business methods, prepar-
ing them, through society responsibilities, to
carry private business cares, should circum-
stances lay such burden upon them. It has
taught them what wonderful power and influence
for good are required by the united movement of
women in a community. Under the superb sys-
tem of organization and solidly in vogue, the
society's members have learned that they can
grapple successfully with all the ordinary destitu-
tion which appeals for relief, and accumulate
means with which the society's usefulness,
strength and independence are constantly aug-
menting. Its meetings have been a good training
school for public speaking; and the society
furnished a common rallying ground for the wo-
men of Utah when they had the franchise and
insured a solid vote of women in favor of public
honor and economy and such private morality as
can be fostered by wise and prudent local ad-
ministration of government. When the happy
day dawns upon Utah, that will restore the politi-
cal rights which were so inconsiderately taken
from cur sex by Congressional enactment, it will
be found that the Relief Society can furnish a
body of intelligent voters, who by experience in
business affairs and observation of the wants of
humanity, are as well fitted to wield the ballot as
any other citizens of the Republic.
	Whatever may be woman’s destiny in politics and
professional life, there is one realm in which her
sovereignty will remain forever undisputed—the
realm of unselfish benevolence—the true charity
which extends daily relief to suffering humanity,
without seeking plaudits or outside recognition.
This has been the work of our Women's Relief
Society and such will continue to be its divine
mission. We nail with joy the Councils of wo-
men and desire to unite with them in all that tends
to elevate our sex and advance the human race.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			
.


STATEMENT OF THE LADY
				MANAGERS.

	AN OFFICIAL COMMUNICATION GIVING THE
	REASONS FOR PHOEBE COUSINS’ REMOVAL.

	The following official statement of the trouble
with Phoebe Couzins has been given out by the
executive committee of the board of lady man-
agers:
	“TO THE LADY MANAGERS OF THE COLUMBIAN
COMMISSION:—Your executive committee now in
session in the city of Chicago requests your kind
consideration of the following statement concern-
ing its action in removing Miss Couzins from
office and the authority and reasons therefor, as
they are here set forth. Articles 4 and 5 of the
by-laws of the board of the lady managers,
adopted Nov. 25, 1890, read as follows:
	ART. 4. Officers of the board of lady man-
agers; The officers of this board shall consist of
a president, whose official title shall be president
of the board of lady managers of the world’s


Columbian commission; nine vice presidents,
who shall be denominated as first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth vice presi-
dents and a vice president at large, and a secre-
tary, all of whom shall hold their office at the
pleasure of the board of lady managers.
	ART. 5. Executive committee: There shall
be an executive committee, consisting of twenty-
five members besides the president, each of whom
shall be appointed by the president, each of the
standing committees to be represented on the ex-
ecutive board. The said committee, when the
board is not in session, shall have all the powers
of the board of lady managers. Ten members
shall constitute a quorum, and the committee may
make such regulations for its own government
and the exercise of its functions through the
medium of such sub-committees as it may con-
sider expedient. This committee shall recom-
mend to the chief commission such employees and
agents as may be necessary and shall distinctly
define the duties. They shall report fully all
their transactions to the board at its stated and
special meetings. In case of any vacancy in the
committee the same shall be filled by appointment
of the president. In all cases where managers
who are members of the executive committee are
absent their alternates are directed to represent
them on the committee.
	The following is the action of the world's
Columbian commission at its session in this city
Wednesday, April 1, 1891:
	Resolved, 5. That, owing to the evident inten-
tion of Congress to allow few meetings of the full
board of lady managers, the executive committee
thereof or a sub-committee of said executive
committee is hereby authorized and empowered
in the absence of the board, to exercise any and
all powers which said board might exercise in
session, including the right and privilege of
amending its by-laws should said executive com-
mittee or sub-committee at any time deem it
necessary or advisable."


GREETING.

	“The journalistic temperament is almost the
finest in the world—keen, kind, progressive and
humanitarian.  Take away the hallucination of
nicotine and the craze of alcoholic dreams, and
you would have remaining an incomparable set of
brother-hearted men.”
					FRANCES E. WILLARD.


“THIS WOMAN BEAT INGALLS."

	Of all the speakers in the remarkable series
of women’s conventions recently held in Wash-
ington, it is probably within the truth to say that
none made so marked an impression as Mrs.
Mary E. Lease, of Kansas; for, as one of the
New York papers declared in its largest head-
line, "This Woman Beat Ingalls.” If any man
would know the manner of woman reformer who
hails from “the broad prairies of Temperance and
Humanity—loving, sunny Kansas,” let him read
Mrs. Lease’s speech at Washington in defence of
the Farmers’ Alliance movement. If the reader
is not thrilled by the throbbing eloquence and
rhetorical beauty as well as by the moral intensity
of that address, he may never hope to be moved
by noble speech. Mr. Ingalls is eloquent, too;
but his is the eloquence of telling and felicitous
phrase and of polished wit. It was no match
for the prophetic enthusiasm of Mrs. Lease, who
is the Jeanne d’Arc of the farmers and working-
men of Kansas, and who has an army of Kansas
women of like spirit at her back. For the
Farmers’ Alliance admits women on equal terms
with men, and it already includes half a million
women in its membership. The Republican
majority in Kansas was thought invincible; and


yet the Farmer's Alliance last November elected
five farmer Congressmen out of seven, secured
the State Legislature, and replaced the world-
famed United States Senator Ingalls by the ob-
scure farmer Mr. Peffer. Mrs. Lease and the
women of Kansas are are in a large measure re-
sponsible for the success of the agitation.
	The fact is that the farmers, who are today as
they have always been the most typical and rep-
resentative element of American citizenship, are
tired of old-time party politics. Like the com-
mon folk of England  *	*  what is wanted is a 
new programme of social politics for the people.
The Farmers' Alliance simply breathes the spirit
that is in the air. The Western farmers know
that things are somehow wrong. They have
been trying to solve the puzzle. Doubtless their
diagnosis of society's diseases, and still more
their remedial formulas, are at some points ab-
surd. But they are honest and earnest, and in
many of their views they are clear-headed and
right. They have at least made one grand dis-
covery; namely, that they have been delegating the
business of government to politicians and lawyers,
and that if the interests of the masses are indeed
jeopardized by the syndicates and monopolies 
and growingly dominant corporations, it is high
time for the people to cease electing to legislative
and executive posts the classes of men most
amenable to the influences of corporate wealth
and power.
	The Western farmers believe that the "money
power" has been robbing them through an actual
or relative contraction of the circulating medium;
and they believe in free silver, if not in limitless
issues of irredeemable paper. Far from wishing
dishonestly to scale down the mortgages on their
farms, they desire only that money should have a
normal purchasing power. It is so easy to criti-
cise the extravagance of the accusations that
these reformers often make, and to point out
fallacies and heresies in their economic creeds,
that there is danger lest the East may forget to
note the advantage to the country that can but
accrue from the aroused mental political and
social activity of the Western farmers.
	Mrs. Lease's confidence in the Farmers' Alliance
as a piece of permanent machinery may be wholly
misplaced; but it is the spirit of awakening and
of energetic action behind the organization that 
is significant.


R. S. REPORTS.

		RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATION.
	Meeting held for the purpose of organizing
a Relief Society in the Cleveland Ward,
Emery Co., March 12, 1891. Bishops Charles
Pulsipher of Huntington, and L. P. Overson
of Cleveland; Annie Larsen,  Stake President
of Relief Society and Counselor Ann Pulsi-
pher, were present. Meeting opened by sing-
ing "Praise ye the Lord, 'tis good to raise."
Prayer by H. H. Ovaitt. Singing "I know that
my Redeemer lives."
	The following officers were then appointed
and sustained by unanimous vote: Annie M.
Alger, President; Ann Eden and Louisa
Overson, Counselors; Harriett Eden, Secre-
tary; Agnes Ovaitt, Ass't. Sec.; Margaretta
Johnsen, Treasurer.
	President Annie Larsen expressed her
pleasure at meeting with the sisters of the
ward. Spoke at length on unity and prayer.
Gave general instructions to the officers in
their different positions.
	Coun. Ann Pulsipher was pleased to witness
an organization here, and said it was the duty
of all to have the Spirit of the Lord with
them.
	Annie M Alger, Ann Eden, Bishop Pulsi-
pher, H. H. Ovaitt, Thomas Farish and
Bishop Overson, all expressed themselves


pleased with the meeting, and gave words of
counsel and encouragement.
	Choir sang "Doxology." Benediction by C.
Pulsipher.
				ANNIE M. ALGER, Pres.

			ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the St.
John's Stake of Zion, convened in the upper
room of the Tithing Office, at St. John's Mar.
7th, 1891, Pres. E. L. S. Udall presiding.
Congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation." Prayer by Counselor
Frances White. Congregation sang, “How
firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord.”
After reading reports and presenting officers,
the remaining time was occupied by the fol-
lowing speakers: Pres. E. L. S. Udall, Mary
E. B. Farr, Mary Farr, Counselor Margaret
E. Patterson, E. N. Freeman and Wm. 
Gibbons, of the Stake Presidency, and Coun-
selor Frances White.
	The subjects spoken of were prayer, the
vision of Nephi, bearing of testimony, influ-
ence of mothers over their children, condition
of woman among the nations of the earth
showing the difference between us and them,
regarding our advantage over them. Pres.
E. S. Udall after making some timely remarks
regarding the duties of R. S. presidents, read
an article from the Gazette, on the "Woman
Suffrage Bill” now before the Territorial Leg-
islature. The meeting was a very interesting
and instructive one, the remarks being ac-
companied by that Holy Spirit which brings
peace and joy to the soul.
				MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿ N. A. W. S. A. OF UTAH TER.
	An executive session of the Utah W. S. A.,
was held April 3, 1891, at 10 a. m., in the
Assembly Hall. Salt Lake City. Mrs. Pheobe
Y. Beatie presiding. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. M. Mitchell. The minutes of the execu-
tive session of the Association held Oct. 3,
1890, were read and accepted. The Treasurer
gave her report which was accepted.
	Mrs. Hannah Dunkley, a representative
from Utah County, reported that the organiza-
tions in that section were in a favorable con-
dition and much interest was taken in them;
that three auxiliary branches had recently
been organized, making in all, eight branches
in that county, while there were still other
branches waiting to be organized.
	Lucy A. Clark represented Davis County.
There are four branches in that county and
others would be organized. In Farmington
the gentlemen had been working with the ladies.
	Salt Lake County was represented by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp.  Ellen Jakeman was
present in behalf of Sanpete County where
there are ten branches all successfully study-
ing the subjects pertaining to the work.
Emily Richards represented Weber County.
Pres. Kimball stated that Sanpete was the
first to respond to the call for names and that
it furnished most of the names sent to Wash-
ington, a large portion of them being men.
Sarah A. Fullmer, Pres. of the W. S. A., in
Emery County, reported the condition of the
associations there.
	Mrs. Mary Ann Webb, President at Lehi,
said the W. S. A. there had been organized
for one and a half years and the members 
numbered 110.
	Emily Richards suggested that gentlemen
be asked to join the association, and she be-
lieved that men would accord us all the rights
we would ask for.  (Applause).  Miscellane-
ous business being next in order, Maria Y. 
Dougall called attention to the fact that the
Executive Committee of the Territory con-
sisted of but three persons while the By-laws

[Column 2]
and Regulations of the W. S. A., of Utah, say
that such committee shall consist of not less 
than five.  Thereupon, on motion of Emily
Richards, Theresa Hills and May Talmage
were reinstated as members of the executive
board for the Central Committee.
	The subjects of the rights and privileges of
the officers of the auxiliary associations and
the membership were discussed at some length,
On motion the meeting adjourned.
	SENI-ANNUAL CONVENTION.
	On April 3rd, 1891, at 2 p.m., in the
Assembly Hall, the Utah Woman’s Suffrage
Association met in the Territoral Convention.
Caroline Dye,having been appointed chaplain,
opened with prayer.  President Kimball was 
in the chair.
	The minutes of the convention held in Oct.
1890, were read and accepted.  Zina D. H.
Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. I. Horne, Emmeline B. Wells,
Elmina S. Taylor and Maria Y. Dougall were
made honorary vice-presidents.
	President S. M. Kimball spoke on the re-
ception the delegates received at Washington,
and how the 1500 names from Utah paved 
the way for their cordial reception.
	Emily S. Richards also spoke on her visit to
Washington, and on the part that the women
are going to take at the World’s Fair.
	Ellen Jakeman, president of the Sanpete
County organization, made some remarks on
the plan of the work carried on in the associa-
tions in that county.
	Lucy A. Clark, president of the Davis
County organization, spoke on the necessity of
studying the laws of the country, also the in-
terest taken by the men of Davis County in
the association.
	Miss Viola Pratt sang a very appropriate
song.
	President Kimball introduced Hon. F. M.
Lyman, by relating in a happy manner her ex-
perience in making her first suffrage speech in
Tooele, when he invited her to address a large
congregation on that subject.
	Hon. F. M. Lyman, in addressing the con-
vention said:  “I have been an advocate of
suffrage for women as long as I can remember.
I took an active part in our legislature when.
the effort was made to extend to women’s privi-
leges in the matter of suffrage, which the ladies,
then possessed. I have heard the subject
talked against, but the severest opponents to it
have been women, not men. In 1885, when I 
was returning from Mexico, I met a highly
intellectual lady, with whom I had much con-
versation. She considered it impossible for
 women to be placed on the same plane as man
for many reasons.
	I think there is no reason that can be held
against woman’s suffrage that cannot be held
against men’s suffrage.  The fact that suffrage
might be given to women does not mean that 
they must hold office. There are but few men
that hold office compared to the whole army
of men; men seek offices because ther are
lucrative, but they are not compelled to accept
any office, and women would have that same
privilege of declining one. The granting of
 the franchise means everything to women and
office holding is a little thing; it is to put men
and women on equal ground. I do not think 
failures in office would be so frequent among
women as among men, and if women had the
franchise there are many corrections that
would be made in the laws. Woman being
deprived of this right tends to make her more
effeminate, she is prohibited from participat-
ing in political matters and is kept in a subdued
condition.
	Women, I believe, should have equal rights
and equal wages with men. (Applause.)  The
majority of employments are suitable for
them, let men have labor that is suitable to

[Column 3]
them and women work that is suitable to
them. Women ought to have more time to
read and get acquainted with the world as
men do. Colored men are given the franchise,
but white women, the mothers of superior
men, are not allowed to judge of the laws.
Suffrage for them must and is now coming.
	Wyoming will be immortalized by the step
it has taken in granting the franchise to
women.  It is a minority that rules in the
country because there is only a minority that
have and exercise the franchise.
	A short time before the death of Henry
Warde Beecher, he was asked the question,
"Shall ministers participate in politics?" He
he answered that the reason politics had got
to such a low condition was that ministers had
been excluded from them.
	The next speaker was Dr. Seymour B.
Young, who read a poem in honor of Wyoming
and gave his views of the woman question; in
a very lucid and comprehensive manner.
	The Convention then adjourned for six
months, Benediction was pronounced by Mr.
Packard.
					ADA CROXALL, Sec.
REPORT OF TREASURER MISS MARGIE DWYER.
	From Oct. 3, 1890, to April 3 1891.
Balance on hand from last report, - - 33,60
Receipts during the half year,- - -     355,90
Total, - - - - - - - - - - 			  389,50

Disbursements during the half year, - - 377,00
Balance cash on hand, - - - - - 	       12,50
								389,50


IN MEMORIAM.

	The subject of the following brief memoir,
Sister Hannah Jackson Allen, was born at
Gool, Lincolnshire, England, Jan. 29th, 1825,
was married to W. L. N. Allen, of Kingston-
upon-Hull, England, August, 14th, 1848.
Recieved the gospel which her husband had
previously recieved and was baptized by Elder
Hugh Findlay of Glasgow, Scotland, then
President of the district known as the Hull
Conference.
	By nature Mrs. Allen was ardent and
impulsive, sociable and sympathic, hence her
home at once became the main centre of the
branch. of which her husband was the loved
and respected President. Round this centre
the Saints gathered from all points of the 
large Conference, for here was open house to
all "the honest of heart," and whole souled 
welcome to such as "came in the name of the
Lord."
	Her heart went especially to the Missionaries,
both native and foreign. She realized pain-
fully their great self denial, and the hardships
to which they were subjected. Thus her
cottage home was in very deed to them a
haven of rest, and its hospitable hearth the
altar where they offered up their songs of
praise, and thanksgiving, and from which
they went forth as giants refreshed with new
wine. And to their credit be it spoken,
there are some in the land today who mindful
of these things, speak of her still as "Dear
Sister Allen."
	She was a woman of few words, but full of
deeds, golden deeds, of love and charity. She 
filled well and to the full her mission in her
native land, and carried with her the grateful
love of all hearts, when, on the 7th of Jan.,
1853, accompanied by her husband, and first
born child, an infant son of eight weeks, she
started out for the gathering place of the
Saints, where they arrived on the 12th of
Oct. following, alter a trying journey, equal
in extent to the diameter of our globe, with
good spirits, but somewhat impaired health,


[Column 1]

from a long and stormy ocean voyage in mid-
winter, and a more than thousand miles tramp
over the trackless prairie, during which she
carried her sick babe and walked from twelve
to twenty miles a day.
	How little do the emigrants of to-day
realize the privations and discomforts which
of necessity awaited the early settlers! Silver
and gold counted little in those days, it was
brain and muscle, faith and integrity, which
alone had value then, and in these things,
Sister Allen and her brave young husband
were rich indeed.
	New and perplexing circumstances greeted
them here, strangers in a strange land. But
they quickly comprehended the situation, and
with characteristic resolution took their stand,
from which they never swerved, come weal,
come woe, it was all the same, their hands
were on the Gospel plow, and being, as she
was wont to say, "of the right grit," they never
faltered, not even when the law of celestial
marriage was presented to them, that most
trying of all tests to women of her tempera-
ment and early training, but she bravely passed
the ordeal, and proved that to know her duty
was virtually to do it, and to the great surprise
of her husband, suffering not her natural
prejudices to assert themselves, she emulated
the example of Sarah, and thus secured her
own eternal honor
	In her new home even in the midst of penury,
their old hospitality distinguished them, and
in 1855 they took to their hearts and home,
four orphan children whose parents had died
on the plains, and the result of her labor of
love is found in the fact that every one of
them are to-day industrious and reliable
members of the comunity.
	Notwithstanding her native sociability,
Sister Allen was retiring even to a fault, and
when the Relief Society of the twenty-first
Ward was organized, with Mrs. A. O. Burt as
President, and she first Counselor, she would
fain have shrunk from the appointment, but
finding she could not consistently do so, she
took up the duties of her office, as she had
done everything else, with all the energies of
her being. No personal sacrifice was too much
for her to make, she was always at her post,
and could be confidently counted upon when-
ever required, until midsummer of 1887, when
in the order of an unerring Providence, she was
stricken with paralysis, and her usefulness
forever destroyed.
	But in this terrible visitation the goodness
of God to her was remarkably manifest, in
the fact, that her intellect was unimpaired,
so that she could understand and enjoy all
the blessings, which He in His love and mercy
crowded into her last years, her only trouble
was that she could not do anything for others
in return for all their devotion to her. She
would fervently remark with tears, "O if
I could only do something, even mend a pair
of socks for the children, I would not mind."
But she had done her work, had made her
record for industry, and left an example well
worthy of imitation. It was therefore per-
mitted her to rest from her labors even in this
life. During the three years and a half of
her utter helplessness, her children were untir-
ing in their devotion to her, and vied with each
other in demonstrations of their filial love, and
her husband was her constant companion.
	Her last day on earth was the 66th anniversa
ry of her birth, and waking early that morning
the Bishop said to her, "Ma, this is your birth-
day, I wish you many happy returns." "My
death day you mean," she interposed; this
remark he considerately evaded, and con-
tinued, "As the weather is cold and threaten-
ing, suppose we don't celebrate to-day, but
keep yours and mine together in May?" "Yes,
it is cold, that will be better." she replied.
But the angel of the programme had arranged

[Column 2]

otherwise, and in the afternoon brought to-
gether her sons and her daughters, with their
children, and their love tokens, to spend that
never to be forgotten evening—the last with
them. They were a happy unsuspecting party
gathered around that family board without the
faintest shadow of approaching gloom, or the
smallest hint of coming grief. No death's
head at that joyous feast, all was harmless
mirth and gaiety, and not until a late hour
was the last good-night spoken, the last ma
ternal kiss imprinted on precious lips and
cheeks which she would kiss no more. All
was done, she had finished her mother work,
then calmly and peacfully she laid her down
to rest, never to rise again! But not in the
darkness of night did she steal away, no, she
saw the morning dawn, and the bright blue
sky, ere the last of human words had fallen on
her ear, and they, coupled with his hearty and
affectionate "good morning mother," were a
joke from her last born son, to which she re-
plied in the same spirit, then the loved voice
was hushed forever.
	Some fifteen minutes later the Bishop re-
turned to the room and finding a great change,
summoned the family. There was no agoniz-
ing struggle, nothing to appal the looker on,
but evidently the finger of death had tenderly
touched the vitals, and his work too was done.
She was gone! Gone where? Through "the
beautiful gates ajar," "Unto the glorious city
beyond" from whence she beckons her loved
ones to follow. Farewell to thee patient one!
peace to thy ashes, honor to thy memory, the
blessings of consolation to thy bereaved
husband, and blessings of reward to thy dutiful
children. May every name be written in the
Saint's book of Life, and chosen when He
shall number up His jewels.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Relief Society Twenty-first Ward.
	Whereas, in His divine wisdom, it hath
pleased Almighty God to take out of her long
affliction our dear Sister, Counselor H. J.
Allen, whose unwearied devotion to the duties
of her office, whose self-sacrifice and prompti-
tude under all circumstances command our
admiration and esteem. Be it therefore
	Resolved—That while we feel keenly the
loss of our friend and fellow-laborer, we
humbly acknowledge that He who doeth all
things well hath done this also, and without
murmur we bow to His righteous decree,
praying Him to give us His grace, that we,
like her, may remain steadfast unto the end,
and having finished our work may enter into
the rest prepared for the faithful; and be it
further
	Resolved—That, we tender our most pro-
found and heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
husband, our beloved Bishop, and our sincere
condolence to the family.
	Also that a copy of these resolutions, with
the foregoing memoir, be presented to them,
and published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and the resolutions be entered upon the
secretary's book.
	Signed in behalf  of the Officers and
Members of the Society March 1891.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

			RESOLUTIONS
	Resolved: That the establishment of full
Woman's Suffrage in the State of Wyoming
by the vote of her people, and its subsequent
ratification by Congress and the President,
mark a revolution in the political statuets of
women in America, and will hereafter give the
women of the nation U. S. Senators and Rep-
resentatives, elected in part by the votes of
women.

[column 2]
	2. That School Suffrage by women in
twenty-two States, municipal Woman Suffrage
in Kansas, and full Woman Suffrage in
Wyoming give assurance that women will
eventually be recognized everywhere as the 
political equals of men.
	3. That we congratulate the Kansas House
of Representatives upon its adoption of a 
Woman's Suffrage bill by a two thirds vote
(69 to 34) and we earnestly appeal to the
Kansas Senate for its concurrence.
	4. That the recent discussions of Woman's
Suffrage on an educational qualification by
the constitutional conventions of Mississippi
and Kentucky, indicate a growing belief on
the part of enlightened legislators that the ad-
mission as voters of women who can read and 
write, will solve the difficult problem of
political illiteracy.
	5. That we recommend conventions during
the coming year in every Southern Capital, in
co-operation with the Suffragists of those
States.
	6. A. That we will continue to memorialize
Congress for a constitutional amendment abol-
ishing all political distinctions on account of
sex.
	B. That in the six remaining Territories we
will make strenuous efforts to secure full suf-
frage by statute in advance of their admission
as States.
	C. That in every State where there is no ex-
pressed constitutional exclusion of women as
voters, we advise suffragists to demand full
Woman Suffrage by legislative enactment, and
in every State to petition the legislature for
municipal and presidential suffrage by statute.
	D. That we will heartily support any State
which engages in a struggle for equal suffrage
by methods approved by this Association.
	7. That we urge the appointment of women
as physicians, matrons and managers in all
penal reformatory and other public institu-
tions containing women or children as in-
mates.
	8. That women and men should be equally
represented on School Boards.
	9. That we congratulate the friends of equal
rights upon the advancement of women in-
dicated by their late National Council and by
woman's improved opportunities, social, in-
dustrial, educational, legal, professional and
political-opportunities, which are at once a 
basis and a guarantee for her future equality
as an American citizen.
	10. That we urge each State Suffrage
Society to petition its legislature for a thorough
revision of the laws regulating the marriage
relation so as to secure to wives and husbands
equal personal and property rights, to mothers
and fathers an equal right to their children,
and to widows and widowers equal rights to
their inheritance of property.
	11. That our thanks are due to the House 
and Senate Committees of Congress for their
reports in favor of Woman Suffrage, also to
both Houses who have worked and voted for
the admission of Wyoming.
	12. Recognizing the power of the Press,
we thank the women of the several Press
Associations for aiding our cause, and we also 
express our obligations to the Washington City
papers, and to the Associated and United
Press for their friendly reports of our proceed-
ings.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	An originator of an opinion precedes the
time; you cannot both precede and reflect it;
what ten years ago was philosophy is now
opinion.—Bulwer.
	In this world misery constantly peeps mock-
ingly over the shoulder of happiness, and just
as we are about to grasp her by the hand he


knocks her roughly aside and with a strong
grip grasps our outstretched hand in his own.
—Ouida.
	As the sword of the best tempered metal is
most flexible, so the truly generous are most
pliant and courteous in their behavior to
their inferiors.—Fuller.
	The thoroughly great men are those who
have done everything thoroughly, and who
have never despised anything, however small,
of God’s making.—Ruskin.
	If the newspaper is the school of the people,
and if upon popular education and intelligence
the success and prosperity of popular govern-
ment depend, there is no function in society
which requires more conscience, as well as
ability.— G. W. Curtis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES.

	Died at West Jordan March 6th, 1891 of pneumonia,
Sister Betsy Jenson. The deceased was born Oct. 15th,
1831 in Sweden. She leaves a husband, two sons and 
three daughters to mourn her loss. She was an affection-
ate mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and a faithful
saint of God. She goes to reap the reward of the righteous.
Sister Betsy was chosen teacher in the Relief Society May
4th, 1882, and held that position until Dec, 4th, 1884,
when she was chosen counselor to Sister Louisa Egbert
and held the position until she died.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort the bereaved ones
in their sorrow, and may they acknowledge even in the 
midst of their suffering, that He doeth all things well.
					AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of R. S.
					D. G. Secretary.

	Died at West Jordan, February 19th, 1891, after an ill-
ness of one week with pneumonia, Louisa M. Egbert,
daughter of Robert E. and Margaret Petty, and wife of the
late Samuel Egbert.
	Deceased was born Dec. 27th, 1839, in Tennessee, bap-
tized when eight years of age, came to Utah in 1848, be-
came the wife of Samuel Egbert, March 11th, 1857, and
was the mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom are living.
	Sister Louisa was an earnest worker in the cause of
truth, she became a member of the West Jordan Relief
Society when it was first organized on April 12th, 1868, and
acted as teacher until she was chosen Counselor in 1869.
held that position until Nov. 4 1880, when she was set apart
to fill the office of President, which position she held at the
time of her death, and died as she had lived, a true Latter-
day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO LOUISA EGBERT.
	Whereas—The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 19th day of February, 1891,
our beloved President. We the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society do feel to mourn her loss, and feel 
that we have lost a kind friend and wise counselor.
	Resolved—That we do cherish her memory, and that we
do put into practice her wise teachings and emulate her
example, and be more closely united in our society, and
always be ready and willing, as she was, to assist the
poor and needy and to care for the sick and afflicted.
	Resolved—That we do sympathize with her sorrowing
family for the loss of a kind and loving mother, and that
we extend to them a helping hand in this their hour of
trial, and do all in our power to comfort and console them.
And we feel to say, not ours, but the Lord's will be done in 
all things.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to be printed, and that we send
a copy to her bereaved family and a copy be kept and
written in our minutes, as a record of our beloved Presi-
dent and friend.
			AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of the R. S.
			DELILA GARDNER, Secretary.

	Died at Union, March 1, 1891, Elizabeth J. Mosong
Richardson, from la grippe and other causes. She 
was a faithful and active teacher in our Relief Society since
its organization in 1877, also and Counselor in the Primary
Association, which office she filled with honor and love
though she had no children of her own.
	Deceased was born in Italy, Nov. 3, 1841. She crossed
the plains in Capt. Ellsworth's hand cart company in 1836,
enduring the hardships of the journey to these valleys, her
father dying on the plains, leaving her an orphan.

[column 2]
	Her husband followed her to rest five hours after she
had expired, from pneumonia. Thus they were one in life
and separated only a few moments in death.
	Whereas, we the officers and members of both associa-
tions feel to mourn her loss realizing it is her gain.
	Resolved that we deem it a just tribute to her memory
to say she not only labored for those she loved on earth,
but has done a good work for her honored dead in the
Logan Temple.
	May we imitate her good and noble example and send a
copy of these resolutions to her brother, also to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and keep a copy of the same on our
minutes.
		"Dearest sister thou hast left us,
			Here thy loss we deeply feel;
		But 'tis God that hath bereft us,
			He can all our sorrows heal.

		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When death's gloomy night has fled,
		Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
			Where no bitter tears are shed."
						ELIZABETH RICHARDS,
						ANN GRIFFITHS,
						HARRIET COX,
						MARY ANN SMART,
						SARAH BURTON,
						SARAH E. FONES.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

		A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the 
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing 
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.
	A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc. considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


[Column 1]

			NOTICE.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s class in Obstetrics will
open at No. 24 S., 7th East St., Monday, April
13th, at 10 a. m. The great demand for well
trained nurses and competent accoucheurs,
should be a stimulus to those ladies who have
aptitude for these noble works, to take advant-
age of such schooling as that given in Dr.
Shipp’s classes, which is always on easy terms
and very satisfactory. For particulars com-
municate with Dr. E. R. Shipp, either per-
sonally or by letter.
MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a m. to 1 p
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.
[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and 
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address	DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

