VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1891.		NO. 19.


CONTENTS.

	Essay on the Sixth Lecture of Faith—E.
Woman's Progress—Sarah A. Boyer. Report
of Utah Before the N. A. W. S. Convention—
Electa Bullock. Utah Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion—S. M. Kimball, Pres. Speech of Anna H.
Shaw. Woman's National Council—Notes and
News. Notice.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam.
	POETRY:—A Tribute of Sympathy—Emily
H. Woodmansee. Song of Triumph—L. L. D.
A poetical Tribute—H. W. Naisbitt. Again
are we Afflicted—L. M. H. President Wells—
Lula.


A TRIBUTE OF SYMPATHY.

[To the bereaved family of the late honored and be-
loved President Daniel H. Wells.]
	After life's tempestuous storms—
		Cometh joy, and peace and rest—
	Yet when Death (in varied forms)
		Gathers up the loved and best—
	Truly 'tis a weighty cross,
	Unto all who bear the loss.

	Ye who mourn a husband dead.
		Ye who miss a Noble Sire,
	Let your thoughts be heavenward led;
		Let His deeds your souls inspire;
	Glory in your husband's name:
	Glory in your father's fame.

	Tens of thousands share your woe—
		Many a heart with sorrow swells—
	Loth to let a father go;
		Lo! your loss is Israel's;
	Zion mourn's a mighty chief;
	Zion needs must share your grief.

	Champion of the sore oppress'd—
		Lay your trusty armor by;
	Lion-hearted leader, rest—
		Holy Angels hover nigh,
	Holy Angels love to keep,
	Watch where valiant Heroes sleep—

	Robe the slum'bring form with white.
		Emblem of the gleaming day—
	Bursting on the raptur'd sight—
		When pure spirits pass away;
	Mystery, of myst'ries rife,
	Life is death, and death is Life!

	Brave and patient, just and true,
		Glorious record, great indeed;
	Admiration thrills us through,
		For the noble spirit freed.
	Crown his grave with immortelles,
	Faithful "Daniel Hanmer Wells."

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Mar. 30, 1891.


SONG OF TRIUMPH.

IN HONOR OF PRESIDENT DANIEL H. WELLS.

	Glory be to God Most High!
		Glory to His Son!
	One hath laid his armor by,
		All his battles won!
	God hath called our Friend revered
		Where high anthems roll!
	Saint triumphant in his Lord,
		Victor at his goal!
			Rest in peace,
			Sweetly sleep,
			In thy holy slumber deep.


Firmly he for justice stood
	Where dark passions rolled;
Stripped of all that men call good,
	Smitten to the soul;
Still unmoved by grief or pain,
	Rage or hate of men,
Truth and right he did maintain,
	Even to the end.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep,
		In thy holy slumber deep.

God who sent him here below
	Knoweth all his worth,
Knoweth all the bitter woe,
	He did taste on earth,
Knoweth well how to repay
	All his patient trust,
So he shines a star of day
	Mid the risen just.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep,
		In thy holy slumber deep.

We who watched the glory grow
	Round his saintly head,
Loved his holiness below
	More than lips have said.
Do we mourn thee, Father, Friend,
	Nay, for joy we sing,
True and faithful to the end,
	Thou art crowned a King.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep.
		In thy holy slumber deep.

			L. L. D.


[Column 1]

A POETICAL TRIBUTE.

THE DEPARTED LEADER!

	"Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man
fallen this day in Israel?" (2 Sam., iii, 38.)

Tread softly as befits this sacred hour,
	Let busy thought with precious memories teem;
For one more triumph of that mighty power
	Which breaks and shatters this "life's fitful dream."
Yet, 'twas no dream to him, the latest called,
	For he had wrought amid its fiercest fires,
Where every fiber of his soul enthralled,
	Was keyed to loftiest mood and grand desires!
He worked for God, for truth, and humankind,
	He gave his strength to this, his life, his all;
So Israel in their deepest heart enshrined,
	And crowned with love this consecrated soul!

In softest tones, in whispered words and low,
	We greet his friends, our friends, this hallowed day,
Oh! bow the head, let tearful hearts o'erflow,
	Though none wish his return, or urge his stay;
Full well is known, for history's pages tell,
	How in the breach he dared to be a man;
As on the air the threatening murmurs swell,
	Of sounds demoniac from a murderous clan.
Ah! who shall tell the truth? that tragic past,
	For e'er remains writ on Columbia's soil;
By few so brave, their protest then to cast
	Against oppression in its mad turmoil.

From thence among the fugitives who fled,
	Amid the silence of these mountain vales,
To dwell in peace, by heaven's direction led,
	To work and wait, till right o'er wrong prevails.
Nerved to the contest rugged nature meant,
	"Yet courting conquest," as the years flew past,
See, concentrated toil and pure intent
	Hath found its triumphs in these vales at last!
Here countless homes, and labor's grandest crown,
	Here thousands dwell, here worship hath no fear.
And when each leader, tired, shall lay him down,
	God's generations will their names revere!

[Column 2]

No need to call the roll! The illustrious dead,
	Since Joseph fell in Carthage, one by one
By him invited, upward have been led
	To move, in wider range, the work undone!
And now, as by the coffined dust we stand,
	Though thoughts and tears commingled feelings show
No sorrow stirs the heart, no trembling hand,
	Would wish it other than we see and know.
E'en now it falls upon the spirit ear
	The song of triumph, music's singing sound,
Such as he heard amid that loftier sphere,
	Where our departed hath his welcome found!

The eye of faith beholds a mighty throng
	Who forward press to greet the ransomed soul,
Some silent stand, and some with bursting song
	Bid words of victory 'mid the arches roll!
Some clasp the hand, and some with warm embrace—
	With loving tones—the family gone before;
And all the Priesthood braves, with earnest face,
	To see an old associate, loved of yore!
Homage from those who know is highest praise,
	These tasted suffering, trial had, and tears,
During those changes of the latter days,
	Such as beset the best in lengthened years.

Reception there; Farewell, we whisper here,
	Our patriot-statesman cast in Heaven's mould:
A  more than brother—friend, forever dear,
	Beyond compare with treasured hoards of gold!
Great! Yet he stooped to bless the humblest one,
	And deemed him equal, if he needed aid;
A sympathetic soul, a hand which won
	That heartfelt faith which never was betrayed.
Amid his family, like an uncrowned king,
	Affection's rule, his sceptre and his throne;
Wives and posterity today can bring
	That love most generous where he best was known.

Honored in time, thrice honored 'mid the Gods,
	Shall not our souls awake to music's swell?
In rapt thanksgiving kiss a thousand rods,
	And peaceful say: "The Father doeth well!"
		H. W. NAISBITT.


ESSAY ON THE SIXTH LECTURE OF
FAITH.

	The knowledge which persons must have
that the course which they pursue in life is
pleasing to God, in order that they may be
enabled to exercise faith in him unto life and
salvation, supplies an important place in our
religion.
	The confidence of God is an absolute
necessity to all persons to enable them to ob-
tain eternal life, and it was through this con-
fidence that the saints of ancient days, know-
ing, not believing, that the course they pursued 
was agreeable to God, were willing to take
the "wasting of their substance" joyfully, and
to suffer death in its most horrid forms.
	The glory which is laid up in Heaven
for them that fear God and worship Him ac-
cording to revelation can never be attained
without they have an actual knowledge that
they have embraced those things which God
has established for the redemption of man.
Without this knowledge, the opposition in the
hearts of unbelievers, and the persecution
which they will have to encounter will cause
them to grow weary in their minds.
	It requires more than belief or supposition
that he is doing the will of God, for a man to
lay down his character, his houses, his lands,
his brothers, his sisters, wife and family, and
even his own life for the sake of the knowl-
edge of Jesus Christ.
	In order to produce the faith necessary to


life and salvation a person must belong to a
religion which requires the sacrifice of all
earthly things, for it is through this sacrifice
that God has ordained that men should enjoy
eternal life.
	It was in offering sacrifices that Abel, the
first martyr, obtained a knowledge that he
was accepted of God, and that knowledge from
Abel's time down to the present has been ob-
tained in the same way.
	Those then who make this sacrifice will
have the testimony that their course is pleas-
ing in the sight of God; and those who have
this testimony will have faith to lay hold on
eternal life, and will be enabled through faith
to endure to the end and receive the crown
that is laid up for them that love the appear-
ance of Jesus Christ, our Lord.
		E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PROGRESS

	MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: I have been thinking for some
time that I would write a few lines to your
valuable paper, though I do  not suppose my
silence has been missed. Our little burg has
still a longing desire for advancement, and
seeing the Herald's account of the general re-
ception given our Delegates at Washington
and since by so many leading papers, aroused
my enthusiasm more than ever, and it is usually
buoyant on the subject of the equality of
woman.
	I can note with pleasure the great strides
that have been made in the past few years,
which is being proven beyond a doubt that
women are not to be crowded out or left be-
hind, but interest in the work is
essential to true progress. Would to God
that woman herself would arise from the
apathy that has so long enslaved her, for I
regret to say that the number are few that
comprehend any responsibility of more magni-
tude than the one which encircles the four
walls of a kitchen. This, together with the
little gossip that seems to be more or less
prevalent among neighborhoods, monopolizes
all the spare time that most women have, and
which so often leads to unfavorable results.
The little things in life generally cause the
greatest trouble and possess the most influence
for good or evil. So will a single word many
times change the course of life as quickly as
an event apparently a hundred times greater.
	Let us guard our little acts, be always
watchful of the results which a carelessly
spoken word or look or frown may produce,
for we are similar to mirrors and to a greater or
less degree possess reflective and refractive
qualities; a smile will produce a smile, and
an angry word is sure to be cast back. Then let
us be watchful of our tongues and guard our
actions. Our motto should be, work with a
will at whatever will bring the greatest happi-
ness to the individual or to the masses. Now
is the time to begin if we have not already.
Don't wait. The world in its ceaseless
journey never waits. Nature in its laws has
provided well for rest, but has made no
provision for waiting.
	I imagine that the women who attend the
Washington Convention must return to their
homes fully convinced that there is a class of
women who do not wait, but who work with
a persistency of effort that is bound to bring
a victory to the cause of right; and this wo-
man's reform which is so formidable in its en-
tirety is destined to win. As "the fittest must
survive," I believe it to be in the economy of
Heaven that woman shall no longer be held
back because she is a woman, but wherever in-
telligence exists, develop it for the benefit of
humanity. How often I think man might be
benefitted by his companion understanding his

[Column 2]

position in life, in business affairs, as well as
socially; and by her co-operation and knowl-
edge she might be able to assist and
encourage him, when disappointment and
worry over business affairs harass him; a few
kind, cheering words, when understanding his
position, would count for much more than if
she was utterly ignorant in these matters; not
that we are egotistical enough to believe
everything is going to be set right when we
have the power, but that she has the right to
try, no true American can deny.
	During the past winter many of our asso-
ciations have been studying civil government
and I have been talking with several gentle-
men in regard to assisting us in understanding
something of municipal government, which, by
their aid, can be made beneficial to us. Our
reorganization was effected in January and
most of our members are workers and desirous
of progress, having in view a knowledge that God
will defend the right, without regard to sex,
for this is woman's era; never before has she so
nearly approached political emancipation as
now, and her victory is surely inevitable.
		Respectfully,
			SARAH A. BOYER.


[Column 1]

REPORT OF UTAH BEFORE THE
N. A. W. S. CONVENTION.

	I am from the first Territory that by its
 laws recognized the ballot as the natural birth-
right of woman as well as man; and a near 
neighbor of the only State in the Union that
recognizes in its Constitution that the consent
of woman is essential to the just exercise of
power in the government to make laws for
her guidance.
	I beg you will not deem it egotism when I
remind you that the Eagle, emblem of our gov-
ernment is indigenous to a mountain country,
and that there is a something in the rarified
atmosphere of high altitudes that impels the
human soul to pant for greater heights of
human liberty than is today enjoyed by the
masses. It is not strange then that the practi-
cal disenthrallment of woman, should first be-
come crystallized into organic laws in the wilds
of the Rocky Mountains.
	The branches of the Woman's Suffrage As-
sociation in Utah Territory are in a flourish-
ing condition, our meetings are frequently held
and numerously attended, and I believe a close
scrutiny of the statistical reports will show
that a larger porportion of the women of Utah
are enrolled as members of the Association
than in any State or Territory of the United
States.
	The peculiar circumstances surrounding
Utah and her political and social relations,
are such as cause the questions of the extension
and limitation of the right to vote to possess
peculiar and grave significance to all classes
of her citizens, and to elicit extensive discus-
sion by her people, about the basic principles
underlying the rights or privileges of the elec-
tive franchise. The people of Utah of all
classes, are driven by the force of circumstances
to think on this subject, and it is very gratify-
ing to note, that the more people think about 
it, the larger are the numbers of those who
advocate Woman Suffrage as an abstract
right, and as a proposed practical amelioration
of the evils which now infest society, which
man alone without the aid of woman has
hitherto been unable to successfully grapple
with and overcome.
	The fact that deep, earnest thought on this
subject generally makes converts to our theory
is all but conclusive proof, that the advocacy
of Woman Suffrage is one of those revolutions
of human society that never go backward,
hence, although we in Utah have once pos.
sessed, but we are now deprived of the fran.

[Column 2]

chise, we cannot but hope that as agitation of
this question is increased, those who now pos-
sess power may be induced to think on this
subject, and confidently expect that calm,
sober thought by the statesmen of our nation
will lead them to adopt such measures as will
permit all the women of our nation to exercise
this high privilege of citizenship.
	The fundamental principle upon which rep-
resentative Government is based is "that all
just Governments derive their powers from
the consent of the governed." Can a Govern-
ment truly be said to be just, when it deprives
one-half of the independent intelligences it
assumes to govern, of the only measure now
known by which their consent can be ascer-
tained or expressed? We think not, and so 
insist upon the theory that a truly representa-
tive Government is based upon an expression
of the free will of every individual member
who is capable of intelligently expressing his
or her will.
	It is freely conceded that insane persons do
not possess intelligent wills, hence they
cannot express them, and that children whose
minds need training and development cannot
but be dependent upon their tutors, hence their
consent is implied by the laws of existence, but
there is no law of being that makes woman's
will dependent upon the will of man. The
sexes complement each other, they travel upon
parallel lines, side by side with each other,
naturally endowed with similar aspirations,
each in its own sphere with equal intelligence,
amenable to the same laws, both human and
divine, each with individual responsibil-
ities, each entitled to personal liberty of body
and what in the near future must be con-
sidered as a higher natural freedom, the right
to express their individual choice through
casting their ballots just as we do.
	Holding these views we meet often together
to discuss social and political questions, desir-
ing that we may be fully able to discharge our
responsibilities when we shall be permitted to
exercise our rights, fondly hoping that the time
is not far distant when intelligent women will
be permitted to vote for men and measures
that will tend to elevate society; when a wo-
man's vote will be at least equal to that of a
man, who may have cast his ballot when tem-
porarily insane by intoxication.
		ELECTA BULLOCK.


Envy is a weed that grows in all soils and
climates, and is no less luxuriant in the country
than in the court; is not confined to any rank
of men or extent of fortune, but rages in the
breasts of all degrees. Alexander was not
prouder than Diogenes; and it may be, if we
would endeavor to surprise it in its most gaudy
dress and attire, and in the exercise of its full
empire and tyranny, we should find it in
school-masters and scholars, or in some
country lady, or the knight, her husband—all 
which ranks of people more despise their
neighbors than all the degrees of honor in
which courts abound, and it rages as much in
a sordid, affected dress as in all the silks and em-
broideries which the excess of the age and the
folly of youth delight to be adorned with.
Since then it keeps all sorts of company, and
wriggles itself into the liking of the most
contrary natures and dispositions, and yet
carries so much poison and venom with it that
it alienates the affections from heaven and
raises rebellion against God Himself. It is
worth our utmost care to watch it in all its
disguises and approaches, that we may discover
it in its first entrance and dislodge it before
it procures a shelter or retiring place to lodge
and conceal itself.—Clarendon.


One-seventh of the land owners in Great
Britain are women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AGAIN ARE WE AFFLICTED.

Again is ours, affliction's cup,
	Again the waves of sorrow flow,
Stirring the soul's deep anguish up,
	To feel afresh its former woe.
But oh, this cup in kindness given,
	We may not, dare not cast away:
We feel our Father's hand hath riven,
	These dear home-links from earth away.
Sorrow's retiring wave must leave
	Upon our hearts some precious gem,
To twine within affection's wreath,
	A rich, a priceless diadem.
Tho' nature for her loss must mourn,
	And our eyes fill with blinding tears,
Undying faith shall cheer us on,
	Dispelling gloomy doubts and fears.
Pointing to those bright realms afar,
	Her holy light shall be our stay,
Unto our souls a guiding star,
	Thro' Him who is the Truth and Way.
Over the rugged mount of prayer,
	And valleys oft in sorrow trod,
Lieth immortal gardens fair,
	Where dwell the ransomed Saints of God.

		L. M. H.
I write this as one who sorrows with you.


PRESIDENT WELLS.

A brave true heart, that wore no worldly mask,
	Nor ever shrank from any proving test,
A strong, kind hand, ne'er known to shirk its task.
	Now calmly rest.

Rest from their labors, but the light they shed,
	Shines now from earth to heaven,and will not dim;
The works of this, our Friend, the blessed dead;
	Do follow him.

Ye Saints of God, whose love for him was great,
	Mourn for your loss, yet deem not this complete;
Bring high resolves his work to emulate,
	As offerings mete.

Remember what sweet charity he's shown,
	Forgetting self in care for others' need;
And try to make such Christ-like love your own,
	In word and deed.

Eternal One, this Friend hath served Thee well;
	Thy mercies to his family still increase;
For love like his, Thine only can excel,
	Grant them its peace.

From first to last, e'en that lone, absent one,
	The favored child of his declining years,
Help them to truly say, "Thy will be done,"
	Amid their tears.

And help Thy Saints, oh,Lord, who labor still,
	Thy laws t' uphold, Thy name to glorify;
Like this great man, life's duties to fulfill,
	Like him to die.

		LULA.


UTAH WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Madame President and Members of the
Convention:—Since our last report a petition
was presented to the Legislative Assembly of
Utah asking that the Deseret University,which
admits male and female students, be put under
the control of male and female Regents, instead
of, as at present, twelve make Regents. The
petition was read and, like the petitions of our
revolutionary forefathers to the British
Parliament, laid on the table.
	There are auxiliary to the territorial
organization seventeen county organizations,
and they have many auxiliary branch organiza-
tions. The paid up auxiliary territorial
membership is over fifteen hundred (1,500.)
	There have been two territorial conventions
held in Salt Lake City, at which,in addition to
the general routine of business, reports have
been received, and such instructions given as


seemed requisite. The number of meetings
held in the branches not reported.
	In some parts of the territory, notable in
Sanpete, Millard, Utah and Davis Counties,
much zeal has been manifested.
	The cause of woman's wages, woman's moral,
social and political needs have been discussed;
also the best methods of helping woman to
rightly understand her present degree of help-
less dependence, and to intelligently assert her
selfhood in a manner that will enable her to
labor more effectively for the general good of
humanity.
	Classes in civil government have been
formed; the duties of city and county officers
have been considered; mock legislative
assemblies have been organized and bills pass-
ed. These lessons have been among the most
instructive of our general exercises.
	In July, the Territorial Woman's Suffrage
Association gave a lawn fete as an Inde-
pendence Celebration, attended by over four
hundred, at which the principles of the suffrage
cause were presented from a political and
scriptural standpoint. In the same month we
held a grove Jubilee in honor of the admission
of our neighboring State, Wyoming, with her
model constitution guaranteeing equal political
privileges to men and women.
	The cruel enactment of our Government
which deprived the women of Utah, without
trial, of their vested and treasured right of
franchise, we understand to be a grievous
wrong, which calls on the administrators of
justice in our nation for redress.
	Our mountain vales are not free from
obstructions; but one by one the advancing
waves of better thought silences them,and once
timid friends of our cause come more and more
to the front.
	Women workers in the suffrage cause in
various parts of the Territory report that they
find many clear brained men who are helpful to
them in various ways. They give their names
and pay their dues,adding words of encourage-
ment, and wishing us success in the good cause
of women's full enfranchisement.
	Our publishing committee have issued a
collection of songs, which help to make our
meetings varied and interesting.
	We watch with interest the reports of the
labors of our Sister Suffragists abroad and they
have our sympathy in all their laudable efforts
in helping to raise the standard of equal
human rights.
		S. M. KIMBALL, Pres.


[Column 1]

SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

	Frances E. Willard, the Pres. of the
Council, introduced the last speaker, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw as follows:
	We have had present during the Council a
very modest, quiet, gentle, and yet indomitable
little woman, who has had the embarrassing
and unenviable duty of tapping the bell.
Now she is to come under the rule, and no
one will do it with more gracefulness or good
will. While Rev. Anna H. Shaw speaks to
us about "God's Women," she will present in
herself an embodiment of the unique title she
has chosen for her address. I will ask Mrs.
Mary T. Lathrop to time the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw.
	Miss Shaw proceeded to review Bishop
Vincent's reported assertion that God's
women are not the Deborahs and Miriams,
but the Ruths, Rachels, and Marys. She
said:
	The subject, "Gods Women," was suggested
to me by an article in a newspaper in which
a gentleman defined God's Women. It has
always seemed to me remarkable how clear
the definitions of men are in regard to women,
their duties, their privileges their responsi-

[Column 2]

bilities, their relations to each other, to men,
to government, and now to God. While they
have been doing this for years, we have been
patiently listening. The woman of the nine-
teenth century has taken to definition, and she
has come to the conclusion that it may be
possible for a woman, as well as for a man, to
comprehend the relations of women to each
other, to their homes, to the church, to the
State, and, listening for the voice of God
themselves, to know what is the relation of
woman to the Divine; and, believing this,
no divine, whether he wear the name of elder,
deacon, priest, bishop, or pope, shall define
for the woman of the twentieth century her
right to be and to become all God makes it
possible for her to be.
	The great divine who suggested this
subject to me was lecturing before an In-
stitute of Sacred Theology, in the city of New
York. Before him was a class of students,
male and female, and he was defining to the
male students what they, the males, might
permit the females to do. He says, "There
are some things which the women may be
permitted to do." Now we like that, don't
we? Some things that we may be permitted
to do! "They may be permitted to dispense
certain charities; they may be permitted to
speak in prayer and class-meetings; they may
be permitted to do certain lines of church
work. There are other things that women
may not be permitted to do. Among the
things that women may not be permitted
to do, is to hold high official relation to the
church, to become its ministers, and to
dispense its sacraments. These things women
may not be permitted to do."
	In referring to the relation of woman to
the church, he spoke of the argument raised
by many women that it was the design of
God that woman should be eligible to any
position she could occupy. The women go
to the Bible to prove their claim; and the
one woman upon whom we have all laid our
claim and our boast is that grand old woman
who was able to cry out, in looking over
Israel in its hour of peace, "There was
trouble, there was dissension, there was un-
rest in Israel until I, Deborah, a mother in
Israel, arose." We point to the fact that the
judges of Israel were always understood by
those people to be divinely selected for their
position; and being thus divinely selected,
we cannot assume that any human being
could have taken the position who was not
recognized, by the people at least, as having
been chosen by God; and even with the
authority of the bishop to back it, we cannot
assume that God did not know what he was
doing when He chose Deborah to be a judge
in Israel. If Bishop Vincent thinks God
made a mistake, he will have to wait forever
to correct the mistake, for it is done, and we
cannot go back on the record. This woman
found a country greatly disturbed, a country
where the judges had been taking bribes from
the people, where the people were utterly
demoralized, where they dared not walk on
their highways because of thieves or robbers,
and were compelled to go secretly through
crosslots in order to get from city to city.
During the forty years of her reign as judge
of Israel, the whole condition of things was
revolutionized. We are told that she judged
the people in righteousness, and the people
had peace for forty years. Just think of
forty years of peace! We have never known
such a thing since that day. Now then,
this woman was not, we are told by Bishop
Vincent, God's woman. If, then, she was not
God's woman, whose woman was she? And
if God is not able to recognize His own,
what will become of us at the last? Now, we
believe that this judge in Israel was divinely
		[Continued on page 150.]


[Column 1]

We need more such men; but the Lord will order
all these things, and we must acknowledge His
hand in whatever may betide us. May our last
end be like unto his;' may our rest be also
glorious. May the Lord grant this to all who
seek for it, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."
	The choir sang:

"O, my Father, thou that dwellest"

	President George Q. Cannon read a portion of
section 76 of the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants.

	"Language seems to be inadequate to convey
the thoughts that now fill my heart.
	"At times silence is the greatest eloquence;
though it would not be right or appropriate on
such an occasion for all to remain silent. We
owe it to the memory of our departed friend
and brother that we should give expression to the
feelings of our hearts concerning his labors and
his life. We owe it to those who live, that we
should give utterance also to our estimate of his
character, that the lesson of his life may not be
lost upon those whom he has left behind, but that
they may feel encouraged to emulate his deeds,
the purity of his character, the grandeur of the
principles which animated him in his mortal
career.	*	*	*	He was a man who
left his impress upon his associates and upon
society, and I feel that the world is the better be-
cause Daniel H. Wells lived in it. I feel that
humanity has been uplifted by his works, by his
example, by his whole life ever since he became
acquainted with the truth. He has not lived in
vain. Look at him from whatever stand-
point you may, you will find something to admire
in the man. If there was one characteristic that
he possessed more prominently than another, it
was his fidelity. He was true to his God; he
was ready to lay down his life at any time for that
which he conceived to be right. I do not sup-
pose that a more perfect man, so far as physical
bravery is concerned, was to be found anywhere.
He had unflinching valor, not only physical, but
also that higher and rarer quality, moral courage.
He possessed these elements to a remarkable
degree. He was true to God, true to his religion,
and true to his fellowmen.
	"We are noted, as a people, for the strength of
our friendship toward each other, and in this re-
gard Brother Wells stood out conspicuously. He
never deserted his friends. The more they were
assailed, and the more unfavorably they were
talked about, the closer he clung to them. He
carried this, indeed, into all the relations of life.
He was a man faithful to his brethren, faithful to
those who were humble, and whom he might have
ignored had he chosen. Then again his love for
his family was beyond expression.

"He possessed literary ability in a marked degree.
Years ago Dr. Bernhizel and myself exchanged
views about Brother Wells, when he was in the
habit of writing papers which were not credited
to him, but which, nevertheless were the emana-
tions of his pen. Dr. Bernhizel used then to
observe how extraordinary it was that one hav-
ing had so few educational advantages was able
to prepare such masterly documents as he did.
I have been similarly struck myself. As a
speaker he was not so strong as he was as a
writer, and yet how often has it been said that the
reports of his discourses always formed delight-
ful reading. He conveyed his thoughts tersely
and lucidly. Every one who read his discourses
was pleased with them; the matter was far better
than the manner of delivery. Brother Wells was
a man of great intellect, therefore a man of power
among his fellows. As to his future we need
have no concern, though his death has brought us

[Column 2]

sadness, because we have been deprived of his
society.

	The last time I visited Manti was in company
with Brother Lyman, a few weeks ago. There
was a conference in Sanpete, at Ephraim, and be-
fore it concluded we decided to go to Manti and
hold a meeting in the evening. President Wells
had not been able to attend, the weather was
stormy, and it was not fit for him to go out. We,
however, joined him at the Manti Temple and
took our meal with him. I remarked to Brother
Lyman at that time that I feared Brother Wells
was not long for this life. I could see a change
in him—that he was more feeble than I had ob-
served him for some time. Strangely enough, he
came here without our learning of it. We were
very busy at the time, and when the news of his
illness first reached us we supposed he .was still
at Manti. It was not until a remark was made
to the private secretary to send a dispatch to
Manti to learn of his condition that we heard he
was in this city. It was a surprise to us. I last
saw him three hours before his death, and al-
though I knew how feeble he was, I little thought
he was going to die so soon. He was able to
talk the evening before his death, when some of
us visited him.

	"After the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, Presi-
dent Young, in addressing a congregation, made
a remark which, though I was but a boy at the
time, so fastened itself upon my mind that I have
never forgotten it. Speaking of Sidney Rigdon
and other men in the Church he said, contrast-
those men with Rigdon, "There are many among
us whose knees have never trembled,
whose hands have never shaken, whose
hearts have never failed." And this is true.
There are men among the Latter day Saints
who amidst the greatest perils have never trembled
nor thought of wavering, either to the right hand
or to the left to save themselves; Daniel H.
Wells was one of the most prominent among them
all—the peer of the strongest, the peer of the
most courageous, the peer of the best men among
us. I pray God to bless his posterity; I invoke
the blessings of our Eternal Father upon them,
that their hearts may be comforted in the midst
of their distress; for it is a distress to part with
such as he. They will miss him, no doubt; but
God is able to console them and to fill their hearts
with peace and joy.
	After the conclusion of Pres. Cannon's re-
marks Apostle Heber J. Grant read a letter from
Apostle Moses Thatcher, which contained many
tender and beautiful sentiments and expressions
of love and esteem for Pres. Wells.
	The choir sang:

"Look up and put your trust in God."

	The benediction was pronounced by President
Lorenzo Snow. 
	As the procession formed and the people were
leaving the Tabernacle the beautiful snow was
falling covering the earth with its white mantle,
an emblem of the purity of him who was to be
laid away under this beautiful white pall.
	The procession formed in the following order:
Berry's martial band, pall bearers, the Twelve
Apostles—as honorary pall bearers, hearse, the 
First Presidency, the family and associates, mem-
bers of the City Council during the late ex-Mayor
Wells' adminitration, the First Seven Presidents
of Seventies, Held's band, Presidents of Stakes
and their Counselors, High Councilors and High
Priests, Quorums of Seventies, Quorums of
Elders, Presiding Bishopric, Bishops and Coun-
selors, Priests, Teachers Deacons, and citizens.
	The cortege was remarkable for its length, the
hearse being followed by over sixty carriages
filled with people. When the procession reached

[Column 3]

the cemetery the carriages formed as closely
around the grave as practicable. The body was
lowered into the tomb and a quartette—Brothers
H. G. Whitney, George D. Pyper, John D. Spen-
cer and Heber Goddard—sang, beautifully and
with deep feeling,

"He is not dead, but sleepeth."

	The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle
Francis M. Lyman.
	"The earth was then filled in over the mortal
remains of a man of sterling qualities. His in-
tegrity was beyond question, sagacity admirable,
his devotion to truth sublime, his simplicity un-
adulterated, his friendship steadfast as the ever-
lasting hills, while every characteristic of his
grand individuality was softened by the influence
of broad sympathy, which caused him to be
closely entwined in the hearts of the people."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

"A combination and a form indeed,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
To give the world assurance of a man."

	These words of the great poet describe more
fully than any others we recall, the personality of
President Daniel H. Wells. A man among ten
thousand, remarkable in appearance, in features,
in bearing,and in all the great and noble qualities
of head and heart that mark the men of destiny.
Brave and fearless as a lion in times of danger
or peril, yet tender and gentle in times of peace
and security. Loyal in the best sense of the term
to his manhood, his country, and his God. In
every place, and at all times true to his friends
and the principles he had made the guide of his
life. But he has been called away to join the in-
numerable number of the just, gone to the society
of the prophets and patriarchs, whom he knew
and loved while here. Gone to fill some higher,
holier mission,there can be no doubt in the minds of
those who knew his fitness for the Master's work.
His labors in the Temple here were indeed a
blessed preparation for the work behind the vail.
His days were filled up with usefulness; he
labored long, faithfully and untiringly, and re-
joiced and was glad of the service he was able to
render for Zion. No sacrifice was too great for
him to make, no labor too arduous to undertake,
if it was to promote the interests of the kingdom
of God, or benefit the people with whom he had
cast his lot. He lived for others more than for
himself as great men ever do; he was as free
from selfishness or self-aggrandizement as it was
possible for a man to be. His integrity to the
Gospel was beyond question. The trying ordeals
through which, in the course of his life, he was
called to pass only made more apparent the true
greatness and sublimity of his character.

"For as gold is tried by fire
So must the heart be tried by pain."

	President Wells never shrank from trials how-
ever severe, but grew strong and valiant for the
truth, the more he was tried. The writer has on
more than one occasion heard him repeat with
much depth of feeling those grandly eloquent
words of Job: "Though He slay me, yet will I
trust in Him." The natural refinement of soul
and boundless charity that always characterized
this great and good man,shone in his countenance
vividly as he advanced in years,softening to saint-
liness the outlines of his magnificently massive
head and face. Those who saw him in his holy
calling in the House of the Lord felt how suited
was the great high priest to the sacred offices in
which he officiated.
	Language fails to give expression to the heart
when such a man passes away. Many have been
the sentiments of love, affection and esteem
spoken and written of him since his death, faith-

[Column 2]

ful tributes to his memory, and he deserved them
all. He was beloved by the people, and he loved
them truly. Those who are faithful and endure
unto the end will meet him again; the assurance
of the Resurrection of the body was one of his
favorite themes, and the joy of meeting those he
loved on earth,renewed and quickened, redeemed
and glorified, to dwell together in the family rela-
tion, was the hope firm as an anchor to his soul
and led him to exclaim with the Psalmist, "I shall
be satisfied when I awake in thy likeness."

	Daniel Hanmer Wells was the son of Daniel
and Catherine Chapin Wells, and was born at
Trenton, Oneida County, New York, October
27, 1814. His father served in the war of 1812,
and was a descendant of the celebrated Thomas
Wells, the fourth Governor of Connecticut, who
was several times elected alternately as Governor
and Lieut. Governor of that colony.
	The mother of the deceased was the daughter
of David Chapin, a revolutionary soldier and con-
nected with one of the oldest and most dis-
tinguished New England families. He served
under the immediate command of Washington
during the greater part of the War of Inde-
pendence.
	In 1826, when he was but 12 years of age, his
father died and then he took upon himself the care
of the family. Six years afterwards, with his mother
and sister, he moved to Ohio, and the following
spring to Illinois. He took up his abode at
Commerce, then a small village, but it was after-
wards noted as the "Mormon" city of Nauvoo.
Here he was elected constable, then justice of the
peace, and was an officer in the first militia or-
ganization of the district. He was a Whig in
politics and figured prominently in the political
conventions of the period. He was an ardent
champion of universal liberty and a foe to oppres-
sion in every form. He was highly esteemed by
people of all parties and creeds, and frequently
acted as arbitrator in difficulties between neigh-
bors and families. "Squire Wells" was noted, in
that early day, as a man of strict integrity, with
a high sense of justice and impartiality.
	In 1839, when the Saints,fleeing from Missouri,
settled at Commerce, he aided in securing for
them a cordial welcome. He owned, among
other pieces of property, eighty acres of land on
the bluff. This he platted into city lots and let
the poor and persecuted "Mormon" refugees have
them at very low figures and on long time for
payment. This endeared him to the people and
determined the location of the chief part of the
city, and of the Temple which was built on land
that had belonged to him.
	"Making the acquaintance of the Prophet
Joseph Smith he became strongly attached to him
though then unconnected with the Church.
When the Charter was granted by the Illinois
Legislature to the City of Nauvoo, he was elected
an Alderman and member of the City Council,
also a Regent of the University and a Brigadier-
General in the Nauvoo Legion. He was promi-
nent in the city affairs and supported every public
measure for the progress and welfare of the
citizens. When the opposition to the "Mormons"
reached its height, General Wells remained on
the side of the assailed people and would not join
in any of the movements for their injury. The
murder of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph
and Hyrum, aroused his deepest indignation, and
he strongly protested against the demand of the
Governor of the State for the arms of the Legion,
which was made under the pretext that the people
of Nauvoo might attempt to avenge the slaughter
of their leaders.
	At the time of the exodus of the main body of
the Church from Nauvoo, and the remnant that
were left being attacked by their enemies after
having been promised prctection, Squire Wells
espoused the cause of this oppressed and perse-

[Column 3]

cuted people. His "gallant defense" of the
"Mormons" at that time will never be forgotten,
his fortitude and courage were "a tower of
strength" to those who were defending them-
selves against their enemies. The story of his
valor is graphically told by those who partici-
pated in that terrible struggle, when the aged, the
poor and helpless were compelled to leave Nauvoo
and camp upon the opposite banks of the
Mississippi River. He was the last one to leave
when the city was evacuated, and was fired upon
after crossing over into Iowa.
	He immediately started for Winter Quarters
where the Saints were camped,and rode day and
night, accompanied by Wm. Cutler, to report the
condition of the people and urge the necessity of
the teams being sent to help them.
	Squire Wells was baptized on the 9th of August,
1846, and from that time his progress has been
onward and upward; though he left all he held
dear on earth at that time for the Gospel's sake,
his wife and only child, his worldly possessions,
his honor and good name among men, and allied
himself with a people unpopular, and at that time
compelled to flee beyond the bounds of civiliza-
tion because of their religious faith. He came to
the valley in 1848, and has resided in Salt Lake
City ever since, except when away upon missions.
In the organization of the Territory,he took a prom-
inent part, and was elected to the first Legislative
Council of the provisional State of Deseret and
appointed as State Attorney; he was also elected
Major General of the Nauvoo Legion, the State
militia, by the General Assembly, May 26, 1849.
March 27, 1852 he received the rank of Lieutenant
General of the Legion, and was commissioned by
Governor Brigham Young, March 7, 1855. He
was afterwards re-elected Lieutenant General
April 6, 1857. General Wells conducted the
Indian campaigns with great military skill, and
succeeded in saving the Sanpete and Sevier
settlements from the dire disasters that threatened
them. His command of the Echo cañon expedi-
tion is a well-known historical event, and won
for him the undying admiration of the Mormon
people. For many terms Hon. D. H. Wells was a
member of the Legislative Councils, and of the
several Constitutional Conventions, with the ex-
ception of the last one in 1885, and filled other
important positions in the building up of the
country, such as Superintendent of Public Works,
Chancellor and Regent of the University of
Deseret for many years, and Mayor of Salt Lake
City ten years. The first time the women of Utah
cast their ballots was for the election of D. H.
Wells for Mayor of the City, for his third term, on
the 14th of February 1870.
	On January 4, 1857, Daniel H. Wells was or-
dained an Apostle and set apart as Second
Counselor to President Brigham Young in the
First Presidency of the Church, which office he
filled until the death of President Young, when he
was appointed a Counselor to the Twelve
Apostles. When the Manti Temple was dedi-
cated May 21st, 1888, he was appointed to take
charge of it as President, and he truly magnified
his calling in that responsible capacity, and grew
more and more into the hearts of the people as
they visited that sacred place and received bless-
ings and ministrations at his hands. But he
has gone, and the places that knew him will know
him no more until he comes forth clothed with
eternal life in the resurrection of the just.

IMPOSING FUNERAL CEREMONIES.
	On Sunday March 29th (Easter Sunday), the
large Tabernacle was filled with people, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect to
General D. H. Wells. The procession left the
house in time to reach the Tabernacle at noonday.
The building was beautifully draped in soft white
cashmere, festooned with bows of white satin rib-
bon,and hung gracefully here and there were long


[Column 1]

﻿white cords and tassels, the most exquisite taste
was manifested in the draping and the decorating
with flowers and evergreens. The flower pots
were also covered with white draping,which gave
them a beautiful appearance and the whole effect
was emblematic of innocence and sublime purity.
	As the body, carried by the pall-bearers and fol-
lowed by the family, entered the Tabernacle, the
whole congregation rose and reverently re-
mained standing until the casket containing the
remains was put in its place in front of the stand
and the family were seated. The casket was an
elegant one of pure white, mounted with silver,
and engraved Daniel H. Wells, aged 76 yrs.
The floral emblems were very chaste and beauti-
ful, some of them particularly striking, a crown, a
harp of lilies, a cushion with the word Rest, a
basket of exquisite flowers and a snow white
dove with outstretched wings upon the top of it,
sheafs of ripened wheat tied with bands of white
ribbon with floral sickles, and a great bunch of
calla-lilies, and several other varieties, bouquets,
etc.
	The music of the organ commenced with a re-
quiem for the dead when the procession entered
the building, and the effect was most solemnly
grand and inspirational. Such notes of lofty
music are the best expression of grief possible
for those who mourn. In the centre of the front of
the organ hung a striking portrait of General
Wells.
	Of the General Authorities of the Church
seated on the stands there were, of the First
Presidency, Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon; of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Francis
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Anton H. Lund, and Abraham
H. Cannon; Patriarch, John Smith; of the First
Seven Presidents of the Seventies, Jacob Gates,
Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, John Mor-
gan, B. H. Roberts, and George Reynolds; of the
Presiding Bishopric, William B. Preston, Robert
T. Burton and John R. Winder.
	There were also, of local authorities, President
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Joseph E.
Taylor and Charles W. Penrose, besides a large
number of Presidents of Stakes and other leading
brethren from various parts of the Territory.
And almost the entire body of workers from the
Manti Temple.
	The services were opened by President George
Q. Cannon, who announced the hymn commenc-
ing:

"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone.
The  broad bereavement seems to fall
Unheeded and unfelt by none;
He was beloved, beloved by all"

	The opening prayer was offered by Elder
William C. Dunbar.
	The choir then sang that beautiful poem from
the pen of Henry W. Naisbitt:

"Rest, for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head,
Rest, on the hillside, rest
With the great uncounted dead."

	President Wilford Woodruff was the first
speaker; he paid a fitting tribute to his departed
brother and associate, and gave excellent counsel
to the saints. His remarks were consoling and
clear, comprehensive and full of inspiration. In
reference to death and funerals he said:
	"I will express myself here to my friends, as I
have done on many occasions, with regard to
funerals, with regard to death, and with regard to
going into the spirit world. I have never felt to
mourn in my spirit to follow any Prophet, any
Apostle, any Saint of the living God to the grave
who has been true and faithful to God, who has
been true and faithful to his covenants, who has
received the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the or-
dinances thereof, and the holy Priesthood. Such

[Column 2]

men and women have filled their missions here
upon earth with honor, with labor, with love, until
they have been called home. They have
died in the faith, and they will receive
a crown of glory. These have been
my feelings in the death of President Young,
Brother Kimball, Brother Taylor, the Twelve
Apostles, and all men who have received the
Gospel of Christ and been true and faithful in
that mission. There is an eternal reality—which
the whole world will find out—in life. There is
an eternal reality in death. There is an eternal
reality in the resurrection, and in the future judg-
ments, and in God's dealing with all men in the
future according to the deeds done in the body;
and when a man or a woman who has entered into
covenant with the Lord, who has received the
Gospel and the ordinances thereof, and been true
and faithful in his or her day and generation, has
been called home into the spirit world, where is
the man who comprehends these principles that
can mourn for that brother or sister? Here lies
before us the tabernacle of Counselor Daniel H.
Wells. His death has been sudden to us. I did
not know that he was sick, or that he was in the
city, till about two days before his death. Well,
we mourn his loss. We feel his loss. All those
associated with him do. We feel the loss of men
occupying such positions as he has done. His
position has been very responsible. He has
magnified it unto the end. Now, when Brother
Wells' spirit left his body, what was his con-
dition? Well, I have my faith and my views with
regard to it. When his spirit left his body he
met with a corps of friends ready to receive him
—those friends with whom he has dwelt, with
whom he has labored, with whom he has toiled
in building up the Church and Kingdom of God
on the earth. There is rejoicing when the spirit
of a Saint of the Living God enters the spirit
world, and meets with the Saints who have gone
before him."
	Apostle Anton H. Lund referred to the ex-
cellent qualities of the departed and to the high
esteem in which he was held by his co-laborers
in the Manti Temple. He said: "We are
gathered here today to pay our respects to our
beloved brother, President Daniel H. Wells, who
has just departed. With you I feel the loss we
have sustained, because I have had the privilege
of being associated with him for the last three
years in the Temple at Manti. During that time
I have much enjoyed his company and felt that he
was indeed a man of God. He was a man of
great kindness, coupled with rare ability. It was
pleasant to meet him every morning and to feel
at home in his presence. It was pleasant to
listen to his discourses. They were brief, but
gems of wisdom. And those who have been as-
sociated with him will remember his teachings
and impart them to their children after them. I
know this to be the feeling of all who have
labored with him in the Temple.
	"Brother Wells, although he loved the Saints
from the time when they came to Nauvoo, was
not at first impressed with their doctrines, until
he heard the Prophet Joseph preach on "baptism
for the dead." This principle he at once accepted
as true, and he decided to devote his life to the
work for the departed. It was the charity and
the infinite mercy shown in the doctrine that im-
pressed it upon his loving heart.
	"One day he was walking on the street in
Nauvoo when Brother Kimball came up behind
him, touched him on the shoulder and said, 'You
are thinking of joining the Church and becoming
one of us.' He was startled, because he had not
mentioned what he felt to any one. He did not
join this people until they had suffered the ut-
most, and he did not cast his lot with them be-
cause he expected any worldly returns. He
received a testimony of the truth and therefore
he became one with us.

[Column 3]

	"After having referred to the labors of the de-
ceased in the Endowment House and in the
Temple, the speaker said that the words of the
Apostle Paul could properly be applied to
Brother Wells: "I have fought a good fight; I
have finished my course; I have kept the faith;
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousness." (2 Tim., iv., 7-8.) He fought
indeed the good fight, and kept the faith. The
work in the Temples is eminently a labor of faith.
	"Few have performed so much work of this
kind as he. He spent his time and his means in
that direction, and worked for a great many on
the other side of the veil. I have no doubt that
he has now met with many of those who through
his ministrations have received the truth.
	"May God bless his family and friends who are
left here to mourn his departure."
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards spoke as fol-
lows: "Beloved friends, I share with you the loss
that we have sustained by the departure of this
great and good man, who has finished his earthly
course, and whose remains are here with us to-
day.

	"I must now stop to go into details; but I
would like to tell you that he was much beloved
by the Prophet Joseph. The fact that Brother
Wells was with the Saints in the various circum-
stances which attended them during their sojourn
from 1839 to 1846, in Nauvoo, created in the
hearts of all the people an affection for him that
has intensified ever since.

	"We have seen him promoted to the highest
military rank known in the existence of a Terri-
tory of the United States, and we have seen him
with his officers gathering men and means and
going to various positions in the Territory to sub-
due the occasional hostilities which occurred with
the Indians. But he was most careful lest there
should be any bloodshed, and the aborigines came
to learn through his kind though firm treatment
that this people were their true friends; for he
taught them that it was better to fight them with
tobacco and biscuit than powder and lead. His
officers all loved him, and the longer his associa-
tion with them, the deeper became their attach-
ment to him. We have known him too as a
foreign missionary. Twice has he been to
European countries, preaching the Gospel, pro-
claiming it both verbally and through the press.
His acquaintance among the human family was
extensive. All Israel seem to know him today
and he knew all Israel; for when he came to be
a counselor to the First Presidency, he traveled
and labored throughout the length and breadth of
the Territory. Some of us have had the satisfac-
tion of enjoying those sacred seasons with him.
And how he loved them! How he sought by
night and day to interest all God's people! He
never appeared to set anything before this pur-
pose of his heart. And then he was called to
labor in the Endowment House. My own ex-
perience with him enables me to say that we have
very few men in Israel who understand and com-
prehend the law of God and can make so careful
and faithful an application of it to the multifarious
conditions of the human family as did President
Daniel H. Wells. His great experience in this
enabled him to do it with love and affection, by
which he technically maintained every right and
every interest of all concerned.

	"May the Spirit of the Father be upon the sor-
rowing ones, abide with them, and be ever near
to whisper to them words of comfort and conso-
lation; and may God guide them in that honor-
able course until they reach that happy end to
which Brother Wells has attained. We cannot
mourn for any sin of omission or commission on
his part; but we shall feel his absence keenly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

[Concluded.]
ordained for the work. because otherwise she
could not have done her work so well.
	This same divine tells us that Miriam was
not God's woman either; that she was a sort
of something interpolated for the times of
war and distress. All great souls are in-
terpolated for great occasions when they are
needed. And when God wants a certain
thing done that He knows needs a woman to
do it, He generally raises up a woman and
not a man for the position. The world
needed a woman. Here was a boy, Moses,
under the reign of a man, by whom Moses
would have been put to death in his baby-
hood, but that the loving heart of his mother
said, "He shall not die," and she hid him
away.
	We are told that women have no reasoning
powers. They are not able to arive at logical
conclusions. When I was in the theological
school, a young man who was studying
theology, and who was arrayed, as they always
are during the first year, with a coat buttoned
up high around the neck, and all that, said
he thought it was his duty to warn me in
the beginning. He said: "You are making a
great mistake. God never intended a woman
to preach the gospel. God has so constructed
the brain of a woman that she cannot give a
correct and continuous exegesis of Scripture."
Doesn't that sound like a first year student?
"It may be," I said, "that God has construct-
ed our brain so that we cannot give a correct
and continuous exegesis of the Scripture.
But He has at least constructed our brain
so that somewhere or other He has found a
place in it in which He has bestowed a large
amount of gumption. Now if we do not pos-
sess exegetical ability, we at least have gump-
tion enough, if we undertake to preach and
find our church empty, to get out of the pulpit
and into the pew. What a grand thing it
would be for the church at large if the other
sex had some of that kind of gumption! There
would not be some bishops who are preaching
today.
	Now this woman, Miriam, we are told, is
not God's woman. But see this little woman's
gumption, how she gets around the young
princess and the mother-heart of the young
princess, goes out towards the baby! She was
a woman, though she was a princess. See how
shrewdly this little girl planned it so that the
child's mother should become his nurse, and
how, under the guidance and care of his
mother, Moses was reared to become the leader
of the people of Israel! You see that in all
that transaction, God did not need a man, and
He did need a great woman; and He found
women enough of the kind He wanted to do
just the work that He wanted done. What more
natural than that when Moses, years after, led


[Column 1]

the people out from Egypt, there went by the
side of the great leader his sister Miriam, and
that they, with their other brother, became the
united leaders of the children of Israel out
from their bondage?
	If God chose a woman to act in these cases,
when the world needed a clear brain, a tender
affectionate, loving, motherly heart, a firm and
determined will, and chose the woman to do it,
and if when the people needed a leader to
guide them out of bondage to freedom, He
chose a woman to be among the leading in-
struments of that great undertaking, who
shall dare to say, be he layman or priest, that
such a woman is not God's woman?
	The Bishop says there are certain classes of
women who are God's women. We want to
know who they are, because then we can range
ourselves on the right side. God's women
according to the Bishop, are "the Ruths, the
Rachels and the Marys." We have some of
the Marys here. Ruth was a remarkable wo-
man, because Ruth was absolutely devoted to
her mother-in-law, and that takes a great wo-
man. I shall never rise to say that a woman
devoted to her mother-in-law is not God's wo-
man. But then, Ruth had some peculiar ways
of getting along in this world. I hardly think
the Bishop would like to have some of us who
are unmarried follow Ruth's method of secur-
ing a husband. I hardly think he would like
us to follow her line of courtship; yet the only
two things for which she is admired are a de-
votion to her mother-in-law and a peculiar
method of obtaining a husband. These are
perhaps two very good things in themselves,
but we should hardly think they were of such
importance to the race that such a woman
should be especially held up as a type of God's
woman.
	Then there was Rachel. We know two or
three things about Rachel. One is that she
had such a high sense of the subserviency of
woman to man, that, while the lazy shepherds
lay about, gazing at each other, and at the
skies, and perhaps at her, she left them gazing
while she went to the well to draw water to
water the flocks. That might be the Bishop's
idea of God's woman, but it is hardly my idea
of the proper division of labor between the
sexes. I should prefer to let the Bishop draw
the water while I gazed. There is another
thing we know about Rachel—that she was
a very handsome woman. Every man and
every woman likes to see a handsome woman;
but I have heard it said that women are al-
ways jealous of each other's beauty, and al-
ways angry if anybody says anything about
the beauty of another woman. This gathering
of women is certainly an exception to the rule
for we have been the proudest set of women
you ever saw, because in the providence of
God there has been gathered here with us in
this council such a magnificent band of beau-
tiful young women of whom we are all proud,
and we glory in their beauty. Those of us
who have passed our youth, look at these
young girls, not with envy, but with a little
bit of pain in our hearts, and say: "If God
had only made us that way, we would have
been glad." We do rejoice in each other, and
we are glad of a good-looking young woman.
Rachel was so good looking that Jacob wanted
to marry her, and he worked seven years for
her. She must have been a very desirable
woman for Jacob to give seven years' hard
labor for her. Nowadays if a man courts for
a few evenings he thinks it is plenty of time
to spend on it. Jacob waited seven years and
then got cheated out of the woman he wanted,
and had to marry her eldest sister. Rachel,
however, was a courageous woman, and he
was a faithful man, so he waited seven years
more. The only other thing I know about
Rachel is, that the Bible says she wept for her
children because they were not. The inference

[Column 2]

is that you men may go on behaving, as you
say you do, improperly in politics; that you
may make the politics of this nation dark,
damaging and unclean; that at last you may
have an unrighteous war, and then take our
children and kill them on the battlefield, and
all we have to do about it is to stay at home
and weep for our children because they are
not! We are to have nothing to say as to
whether you shall kill them or not. All we
are to have to do about it is to cry about it.
	Then the Bishop tells us Mary was one of
God's women. There are a number of Marys,
and the Bishop does not designate which of
them it was. If he means the Mary out of
whom the seven devils were cast, I should not
agree with him. If it was the Mary who
washed the feet of Christ and wiped them
with the hairs of her head, in token of peni-
tence, I admire her penitence, but I do not
admire the sin that led to the necessity of that
penitence. If it was the Mary who was his
mother, the Bishop has brought forward the
wrong Mary to prove his case. What does the
Bible tell us? In the fulness of time, God
needed for the world a Redeemer. How
should He give the Redeemer to the world?
He gave the Redeemer to the world by choos-
ing out of the world a woman to become the
mother of the Savior of the race. God and a
woman gave to the world its Redeemer. Men
were counted out of the transaction. She did
a great work for the world, but she did not do
it in her kitchen, cooking chickens for con-
ference season and other occasions when the
ministers came around.
	Then there was another Mary, and she is the
Mary whom I have taken as my example in
my profession. This was the Mary who stood
by the tomb of the Lord, and there at the
mouth of the open tomb she received the first
divine commission from the Divine One Him-
self to go out into the world and preach the
gospel of a risen Lord.
	We have one other Mary, and that Mary
was the Mary who sat at the feet of the Lord
learning theology of Him; and the only reproof
the Lord ever gave a woman was not given to
Mary,the theological student,but to Martha,the
woman who worried about her house-work, and
wanted Mary to give up theology and go into
the kitchen and cook the dinner.
	Now then, here are the Marys, two of whom
were sinners. One was the mother of the
Lord, doing the greatest public work for the
race that has ever been done in the world.
One was a woman who was a theological
student learning at the feet of the Master The
other was the first divinely commissioned
preacher of the resurrection. I am glad that
Bishop Vincent holds that women ministers
are God's women; that women theological
students are God's women; and that the wo-
man who was the mother of the Savior of the
world was also God's woman. I believe they
were; I believe that the Miriams and the
Hesters and Vashtis were God's women too.
	When I was a girl I read the Bible through
in order to select from it the two people who
were to be my hero and heroine through life.
My hero was Jacob, and my heroine Vashti.
Vashti disobeyed her husband, and left her
palace because she had disobeyed her husband.
I selected Vashti from among them all, be-
cause she did disobey her husband—a woman
away back in the centuries, who recognized the
dictates of her own self-respect; a woman who
refused to become the puppet of a king, and
of his drunken courtiers; a woman ready to
give up a man and a throne, a husband and a
kingdom, rather than do an ignominious thing;
such a woman is God's woman,husband or no
husband. I wish the world were full of
Vashtis today, standing by the right of their
individual self-respect; and I sigh to God for
such womanhood.

[Column 3]

	The concluding remarks of Bishop Vincent
were in relation to motherhood. He referred
to that passage of Scripture which we have
heard so much about in this discussion. "She
shall be saved in childbirth." Most of us re-
gard this passage of the Scripture as meaning
that she shall be saved by the coming of the
Child—shall be saved by the birth of Jesus
Chirst. She shall be saved because Jesus
Christ came into the world to save not man
alone, but women also. Women shall be saved
because of the coming of Him who is the
Emancipator of the race, women included.
Believing this, we think the discussion which
has been raised upon this line is a mere make-
shift; it has nothing to stand upon.
	There are two things to be considered in re-
lation to motherhood. We have heard that
motherhood is a crown of glory. They say
motherhood is the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. We answer, No;
motherhood is not the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. Motherhood may
even not be a crown of glory at all. Motherhood
may or may not be a crown of glory. It may be-
come a crown of shame. It requires that there
shall be a something back of motherhood to
define what motherhood shall be, and in this
something back of motherhood lies that which
shall make it a crown of glory. The highest
crown of glory which a woman can wear is
not motherhood. The highest crown of glory
which a woman can wear is womanhood—true,
noble; strong, healthy, spiritual womanhood;
the daughter of the King, the child of God,
the heir of the Lord Jesus Christ, equal with
Bishop Vincent, or any man in the world. If
the woman is first of all a woman, motherhood
shall become to her a crown of glory; but after
she is a woman, all things shall be to her a
crown of glory, whether it be motherhood or
spinsterhood. The mother heart of woman,
the mother heart that reaches out to the race
and finds a wrong and rights it, finds a broken
heart and heals it, finds a bruised life ready to
be broken and sustains it—a woman in-
stinct with mother-love, which is the expression
of the Divine love, a woman who, finding any
wrong, any weakness, any pain, any sorrow,
anywhere in the world, reaches out her hand
to right the wrong, to heal the pain, to com-
fort the suffering—such a woman is God's wo-
man. It matters not where she may be;
where she was born, under what skies she has
lived; she is God's woman, and at last she shall
find her God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That it is the unanimous voice of
this Council that all institutions of learning
and of professional instruction, including
schools of theology, law and medicine, should
in the interest of humanity, be as freely
opened to women as to men; that opportun-
ities for industrial training should be as gen-
erally and liberally provided for one as the
other, and that the representation of organized
womanhood in this Council will steadily de-
mand that in all avocations in which both men
and women engage, equal wages shall be paid
for equal work; and, finally, that an en-
lightened society should demand, as the only
adequate expression of the high' civilization
which it is its office to establish and maintain,
an identical standard of personal purity and
morality for men and women.
	Resolved, That the National Council en-
dorses the general features of the plan of or-
ganization outlined in our president's address,
and that the general officers fully elaborate the
plan between this and the next session of the
National Council.
	Much interest will be felt in this proposed


[Column 1]

plan of organization, which is very full and
comprehensive. It is outlined by Miss
Willard as follows:
	"I believe we should organize a miniature
council in every town and city, confederating
those in every State, and instructing the State
Council to send delegates to the National
Council. The plan would be to let these de-
legates form a lower and the heads of national
societies an upper house, whose concurrent
vote should be essential to the enunciation of
any principle, or the adoption of any plan.
The president of this society should be (as has
already been wisely ordained by this Council)
eligible for but one term, and should have
power to choose her own cabinet from the
seven ablest women of the country, represent-
ing the industries, education, professions,
philanthropies, reforms, and the religious and
political work of women. We should thus
have have within the national government, as
carried on by men, a republic of women, duly
organized and officered, not in any wise an-
tagonistic to men, but conducted in their in-
terest as much as in our own, and tending to-
ward such mutual fellowship among women,
such breadth of knowledge and sympathy as
should establish solidarity of sentiment and
purpose throughout the nation of women-
workers, put a premium upon organized as
against isolated efforts for human betterment,
minify the sense of selfhood and magnify that
of otherhood, training and tutoring women for
the next great step in the evolution of
humanity, when men and women shall sit side
by side in government and the nations shall
learn war no more.
	"The Upper Council, as it might be called,
would, by this plan, consist of two delegates
from each society which, in its judgment, was
national in scope or value, one being the presi-
dent of that society, the other chosen by bal-
lot at its last annual meeting preceding the
session of the Council (which I would have
convened biennially). This Upper Council
would answer to the Senate of the United
States, and the Lower Council, made up of
delegates chosen by the forty-four State Coun
cils from their auxiliaries, would be analogous
to the House of Representatives. We should
thus have an organization that would include
all the various groups of women hitherto
isolated (and, as a consequence in some degree
provincial), while its basis would be so broad,
its aim so far-reaching, and its plan so unique
that no other society could consider its realm
in any wise encroached upon.
	"The same democratic basis of organization
should extend to the local councils—i. e., each
should be made up of two delegates from
each local society of women in the city, town
or village, one being the president of said local
society and the other chosen by ballot of that
society. The State Council should be made
up of two delegates each, chosen in like man-
ner from the local councils, these to form a
lower house in the State Council, and the
presidents, with one other representative of
each State Society, to form the Upper Council
in each State, the president and vice-president
of the National Council to be elected bienni-
ally by a popular vote of all members of all
local societies tributary to the National
Council.
	"We have wished for a method of inducing
women to cast their ballots on a large scale;
this would be quite sure to arouse an enthus-
iasm that would "call out the vote."
	"As a financial basis, I would propose a dime
a year to the National Council from each
woman in each local organization of women
in the United States. This would be burden-
some to no one, and would be paid outside of
all other fees.
	Such a national society would incalculably
increase the world's sum total of womanly

[Column 2]

courage, efficiency, and esprit de corps; widen-
ing our horizon, correcting the tendency to an
exaggerated impression of one's own work as
compared with that of others, and putting the
wisdom and expertness of each at the service
of all Nor would it require a vast amount
of effort to bring such a great movement into
being, for the work of organizing is already
done, and the correlating of societies now
formed could be divided among our leaders,
each one taking a State, or a number of chief
towns and cities.
	Being organized in the interest of no speci-
fic propaganda, this great Association would
unite in cordial sympathy all existing societies
of women, that with a mighty aggregate of
power we might move in directions upon
which we could agree.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Emma Leach and Mrs. Beach have
recently became editors and publishers of the
Ackley (Ia.) Tribune.
	The New England Women's Club has
voted by a large majority to join the General
Federation of Women's Clubs.
	Of the $95,500 appropriated by Congress
for the National Commission of the World's
Fair, $36,000 is for the use of the Women's
Board of Managers.
	A reception was given on the evening of
March 31, at the New Century parlors in
Philadelphia, to Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Miss Florence Balgarnie of England, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofiord and Rev. Anna H, Shaw.
Mrs. Amelia E. Barr has just completed a
Scotch romance, entitled "A Sister of Esau,"
which she has sold to the New York Ledger
for $2,500. The story is laid in Fife. Mrs.
Barr is residing now at Orange, N. J.
	The attempt at co operative housekeeping in
Evanston, Ill., has failed. The Co-operative
Housekeeping Association has made an assign-
ment in the County Court. The assets are
$4,000, and the liabilities, $4,900. House-
keepers all over the country will regret it; but,
despite difficulties and frequent break-downs in
getting started, co-operative housekeeping is
bound to come.
	The appointment of Miss Emily Howland
as a director of the First National Bank,of
Auburn, N. Y., has called attention fo the
fact that several other women hold similar
positions. Mrs. C. McCullough Everhard has
been a director of the Union National Bank
of Massillon, O., for the last three years. The two
largest national banks in San Antonio, Tex.,
have each a woman among the directors.
Mrs. A. E. Stribling has occupied such a
place in the San Antonio National Bank for
ten years, and Miss Sara Lockwood in the
Lockwood National Bank for five years.
At Mt. Sterling, Ky., Mrs. Laura M. Bent
was elected director of the Farmers' National
Bank in 1887, and has the same office in the
New Farmers' Bank, which has succeeded the
former institution.


[Column 1]
		NOTICE.

	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics will
open at No. 24 S., 7th East St., Monday, April
13th, at 10 a. m. The great demand for well
trained nurses and competent accoucheurs,
should be a stimulus to those ladies who have
aptitude for these noble works, to-take advant-
age of such schooling as that given in Dr.
Shipp's classes, which is always on easy terms
and very satisfactory. For particulars com-
municate with Dr. E. R. Shipp, either per-
sonally or by letter.
[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest.  Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup

WOMAN'S 
CO-OPERATIVE 
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
 INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH 
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE 
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES,
		Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Addres  DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

