Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1891.			No. 17


CONTENTS.
	Leaves From My Journal—Gladys. Good
Company—S. M. H. Faces in the Clouds—
Cuyler. Diamond vs. Charcoal. Caught by a
Telegram—New York Sun. Can I Entertain—
The Chautauquau. The Nation's Dead—Ex.
Women of the Nation. Poli Tics—Mys Terious.
Woman's Work in Archaeology—Frauz Xaver
Kraus. Notes and News. Testimony of Mother
Walker.
	EDITORIAL:—A Glimpse of Washington.
Notice—Sarah M. Kimball. Lucy Decker Young
—M. Y. R.
	POETRY:—The Record of a Day—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Farewell Hymn. Twilight
Musings—Helen M. Whitney. What Woman
has Done—Hope. To Lucy D. Young—
Josephine Spencer.


[Column 1]

THE RECORD OF A DAY.

Once in a castle famed and old
With frowning towers brown and bold,
A lovely lady's jewels lay
Resplendent in the sunlight's ray,
And seeing them, a bird flew in,
And knowing not of wrong or sin,
She drew a necklace from the rest
And bore it to her own dear nest.

Not long ago, I listened to
A story strange yet sweet and true,
And I (another bird) did take
The story for its beauty's sake;
But now return it wreathed in rhyme
And ask his pardon for the crime.
For conscience sake and loyalty
To God and truth, with others, he
Had passed through weary months and days
Of prison life, yet still gave praise
To Him who rules through storm and calm,
And saves His own through every harm.

So like each other passed the years—
At length grew dull their hopes and fears,
And patience turned with faith's content
To lessons that its pages lent.

Then some one called. A moment more,
He stood outside the prison door,
And there—upon the great high wall,
That cast its shadow over all,
A heavenly host (to them it seemed)
As fair as e'er in sleep was dreamed,
But—real, living, with sweet voice
To bid the pris'ners' hearts rejoice.
And while they gazed—the children sang
Till all the cells in music rang;
Sweet songs of love and home and cheer
From those young lips, oh! doubly dear!
For tenderest thoughts upstarted then
Within the hearts of these true men;
And even those whose souls where not
Without sin's dark unfading spot,
In memory of desperate wrong,
Were touched, and wept at that pure song.

Soon as their voices hushed again
Responsive tones rose from the Pen;
The prisoners answered joyously,
As greatful hearts that day could be:
"Home Sweet Home" and songs of love,
And joyous waltzes rose above
The prison walls to that free space
Where shone each pure and lovely face.

Oh never happier were those men
Since first they entered that dark Pen,
Than answering the sweet benison
Brought by each dear and loving one.

Again the little singers raised
Their songs of love and faith and praise,

[Column 2]

And all seemed dream-life, fairy like,
And then the bell's deep tone did strike
The songs to silence, and they knew
That signal was for parting, tool

But e'er their footsteps turned away,
As the sun throws his brightest ray
Before he vanishes at night,
A lovely farewell met their sight!
Each gentle hand in parting threw
Blossoms of every scent and hue
Upon the trampled dust below—
Jewels upon the breast of woe.

With eager hands and tear dimmed eyes
They caught them up as precious prize,
And ne'er was purer token pressed
Unto a brave man's throbbing breast,

A moment more and all was still,
And each one with a strong, brave will
Turned to the duties of the place
With softer step and tenderer face.

When years have come and passed away,
And he who wrote that page is gray,
His children oft will gather near
That journal's stories still to hear,
And little ones will sweetly say:
"Did they keep dear Grandpa that way?"
And tender eyes will fill with tears
Hearing the record of these years.

O, treasured more than ancient sword
Will be the pris'ner's written word;
Though traced in prison's sunless day,
The gems of truth will shine a'way!

All honor to each tender heart
That bore its share at home, apart,
While he who was their light was gone,
And the stern world looked coldly on;
And blessings on each darling born
To wear the wreath of shame and scorn.

When waiting at the pearly gates
Each soul the voice divine awaits,
And reads the name upon each one,
THOSE NAMES—the Patriarch Jacob's sons.

Then shall their birthright honored be—
Passport to IMMORTALITY!
Then shall the prisoner's written page
Count as CELESTIAL HERITAGE.

O, men and brothers who have known
The life behind those walls of stone,
Smile and rejoice o'er faith unmoved;
Smile and rejoice, thy test approved.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Jan. 24, 1891.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	I shall never forget the brief space of time
between setting foot on the steamer and leav-
ing the harbor. The conflicting emotions of
joy and sadness which filled my heart, caused
a peculiar sensation not frequently experienced.
Here was I about to realize the dream of my
life, and my pleasure at the thought, can
better be imagined than described; yet at the
same time, I was separating myself by thou-
sands of miles of the mighty ocean, from the
land of my nativity and all the world held
near and dear. Of course I thoroughly ex-
pected and believed that I should return to
the loved ones—for had not I received a bless-
ing under the hands of the apostle of the Lord,
stating that such should be my pleasure? But
nevertheless these contradictory thoughts and
feelings seemed to have possession of me and I
could not decide which was uppermost, the

[column 2]
feeling of sorrow or that of gladness. How-
ever, I was resolved not to let my feelings be
guessed by those about me, as they had rather
joked me all the way, about not being home-
sick, and had said: "Just wait until we are
about to leave the land behind, and then we
will see if you are so strong minded." I was
congratulating myself on my power of keep-
ing my feelings hidden, when a crowd of people
who had gathered upon deck, and whom I
had supposed were passengers like ourselves,
started to sing a parting hymn, the title of
which I believe was, "Till we meet," and the
last line of the chorus was, "God be with you
till we meet again." The tune was admirably
adapted to the words, and the singers all had
good voices, supplying the four melodies which
form harmony. In fact the whole was so much
in harmony with my thoughts and feelings,
that I could not withstand its melting in-
fluence, but was forced to give way before this
flood of sweet, yet solemn sound, I wept—I
wept. There was however one source of con-
solation left me in my weak-mindedness—
there were many around me to whom the soft
and penetrating sounds of music had touched
in like manner, and many were seen with the
big tear-drops running down their cheeks,
while the smiles shone through like the sun
in the midst of an April shower. We
learned that this company of singers were
members of the Baptist church, who had come
on deck to sing their good-wishes and fare-
wells to one of their missionaries who was
bound for the "Dark Continent."
	When the singing was over, there was such
shaking of hands and such expressions of
"God bless you," "Do you love Him?" etc.,
kissing and weeping and smiling altogether,
irrespective of connection or creed, that it was
quite interesting and amusing to those who
(like some of us) stood on one side and watched
the procedure.
	But the time soon came for us to start. The
great gong sounded to warn all those who had
not engaged passage to depart. The company was
 soon thinned out and the gang-way drawn up,
giving us conclusive evidence that, "The
gallant ship was under weigh, to bear us out
to sea." We had really been let loose from
the land and could already feel the motion of
the ship as it conveyed us out on the bosom
of the deep dark ocean. We had purchased
deck chairs from the man on the wharf, who
sadly tormented us as we passed by him with our
luggage up the gang-way, and they had been
placed in a position where we might watch the
rapidly receding land.
	New York presents a grand and beautiful
appearance from the harbor; the high and
majestic buildings, the church spires and Gov-
ernmental pinnacle towering far up towards the
blue skies, and many were the reflections of
my mind regarding the past history and future
destiny of this great city.
	We were, however, soon disturbed in these
thoughts by the sound of the luncheon bell,
which called us to receive comfort from the
saloon below. We hurriedly ate what we re-
quired, which was not much, though there was
set before us a tempting repast, and hastened
to our place on deck, lest we might miss see-
ing the Statue of Liberty, but it was not yet
in sight, and not until the sun was sinking in
the western sky, did we pass by the great
goddess. This Statue of Liberty giving light to
the world, is a beautiful and wonderful con-


ception, occupying a commanding position in
the harbor; as all ships bound for New York
must necessarily pass by it before they come
into port, and the light shed forth from the
uplifted right hand of the goddess, is discern-
able by vessels miles out at sea. Yet it is 
saddening to be informed that this wonder of 
modern art and invention, is like unto the
house of a foolish man, which is built upon
the sand, and is destined, if not removed, to
be submerged by the the restless waves of the sea.
Strange, very strange,this monument has ever
been held as typical of the great nation to 
which it belongs. The question arises, will
its fate typify the fate of the Republic? Is
that, too, built upon quicksand? Time alone
will possess us of the sequel.
	The sun has set. The last mountain peak 
has faded from our sight. We have indeed 
bid adieu to terra firma, and said to our 
native land farewell. The shades of eve are
hovering o'er us, and we are far out on the
bosom of the deep. Shall I ever forget that
first afternoon and evening on the ocean? I
think not.
	Not wishing to give way to a feeling of
melancholy, as we had every reason for rejoic-
ing, our party joined in singing some of the old
familiar songs. Mr. H—and I enjoyed a 
waltz, newport, etc., to the sound of the har-
monica as played by Mr B—, who walked up 
and down the deck near us while we danced,
so that we might better hear the tune. The 
performance was really jolly, and I enjoyed it
immensely. We held meeting down in the
intermediate dining room, which we also en-
joyed, but hastened to get up on deck again
lest we should turn sick.
	During my voyage I found a perpetual
source of pleasure in watching the ever chang-
ing view of the sky and ocean. How beauti-
ful they looked in each and all of their varied
aspects. How inexpressibly grand and awe
inspiring were their tremendous propor-
tions.
	While being tossed on the broad, expansive
bosom of the deep, apparently hemmed in by
the arching depth of sky above, one is lost in
wonder and admiration at the grandeur and
immensity of even the small part of the uni-
verse which we are capable of comprehending,
and we feel ourselves dwindling into nothing-
ness, and are led to wonder at the infinite love
and mercy of the Great Creator, in deigning
to consider anything so insignificant and un-
worthy as we feel ourselves to be. An evening
spent on the deck of the vessel where may be
heard the constant lashing of the hungry
waves against its sides,and where one cannot 
fail to sense their utter helplessness in case 
of anything happening to the frail bark on 
which they stand. While the upper deep is
dotted with gems innumerable, declaring the 
glory of God, and the wonderfulness of His 
handiwork. I say such sights and sounds, to
our finite minds, almost incomprehensible,
produce the beneficial effect of making plain
to us our own incompetency—our entire de-
pendence on our Father and our God. Pride
hath not, for the time being, a place in our
natures—our spirits are softened—and we are
humbled to the dust. I spent two or three
evenigns on deck, and shall never forget them,
they are treasured up in my heart and mind
among my sublime experiences.
	Thus with singing, chatting, dancing, and 
feasting our senses on the sublimity of nature
surrounding us, the afternoon and evening
passed most pleasantly, and at ten o'clock we 
very reluctantly wended our way to our 
several state rooms and berths, ready for our
first night on the water; and inwardly con-
gratulating ourselves that we were going to be 
exceptions to most travelers on the ocean, and
not be sea sick. Though the dawn of the 
morrow proved the fallacy of our hopes, I

[column 2]
might say thus ended the first day of our 
voyage.
							GLADYS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD COMPANY.

	A good character is something to be prized
more than riches. It is not sufficient that we
have a good reputation, a good character is
what we should all strive our utmost to pos-
sess. There is a vast difference in the meaning
of the words, character and reputation; char-
acter is what (in our very heart and soul, and
in our daily walk and conversation) we really
are; while reputation is merely what from
all outward appearance we are supposed to be.
There are those who-while in company and
society-seem to be kind and agreeable, and
very entertaining, but who when at home, and
among their own, are cross and surly, with
never a smile or a pleasant word, such a per-
son has a reputation from which his character
differs very, very much.
	Among other things, it is necessary, in order 
to possess a good character, to keep good com-
pany. We can be kind to those who are
worthy of our kindness, but let us be intimate
with few, and be sure that the few are well
chosen.
	We generally judge persons from the com-
pany they keep, and we had better be alone
than in bad company, for "evil communications
corrupt good morals." Habits are catching as
well as diseases; and I believe that the mind
is as liable to infections as the body.
	Do wrong, and we feel that almost every-
thing is wrong; but do right, and we sense the
pleasure of having done so. Just so with the
company we keep; if we mingle with low and
degraded people, we think life is mean and
hardly worth living, but on the other hand, if
we associate with the pure in heart,the virtuous,
and those who let virtue garnish their thoughts
unceasingly, who in fact, have virtue; truth,
and righteousness for their motto, will feel that
life is sweet, and that we have in very deed
something worth living for, we will realize 
that we are not placed upon this earth merely
for the pleasure this life affords, but that we
are placed here to prepare ourselves for a 
grander and nobler life, a higher and more
exalted home. 
	We cannot allow ourselves to associate with 
those who do not consider it necessary to re-
member the Sabbath day and keep it holy.
It is a commandment to us from our Father
in heaven, and we should honor and hold it
sacred as such.
	Let us seek the society of those who fear 
God, of those who are so humble as to ask
God for blessings, and so grateful as to thank
Him for blessings received, never forgetting to
do our part, and to be as humble and grateful
as those with whom we associate. And by so
doing we will be wise for ourselves here, and
wise for eternity hereafter.
							S. M. H.


FACES IN THE CLOUDS.

	In one of the German picture galleries is a
painting called “Cloudland.” It hangs at
the end of a long gallery; and at first sight it
looks like a huge, repulsive daub of confused
color, without form or comeliness. As you
walk toward it, the picture begins to take
shape. It proves to be a mass of exquisite
little cherub faces, like those at the head of
the canvas in Raphael's “Madonna San Sisto.”
If you come close to the picture, you see only
an innumerable company of little angels and
cherubim. How often the soul that is
frightened by trial sees nothing but a confused
and repulsive mass of broken expectations
and crushed hopes! but if that soul, instead of


fleeing away into unbelief and despair, would
only draw up near to God, it would soon dis-
cover that the cloud was full of angels of
mercy. In one cherub face it would see—
“whom I love, I chasten.” Another angel
would say, “All things work together for good
to them that love God.” In still another
sweet face the heavenly words are coming
forth: "Let not your hearts be troubled: be-
lieve also in me. In my Father’s house are
many mansions. Where I am there shall ye
be also.”—Cuyler.


DIAMOND vs. CHARCOAL.

	What could seem more unlike? The one is
so bright, the other, so dark; the one, priceless,
the other, nearly worthless. Yet we are
taught that they are really identical in sub-
stance, both being nearly pure carbon. What
then makes the difference? Simply that in
the case of the diamond a beautiful law has
been at work, crystallizing the particles and
preparing them for their united and exalted
mission as transmitters and reflectors of
light.
	Here are two neighboring lives. Common
daily tasks make up each. What we often
call drudgery, monotony, tediousness, is the
weekly routine. Day after day occurs the
same round of trivial duties. But one is
selfish and the other unselfish; the one, worldly,
the other, Christian. In the one case the fires
of discontent and disobedience charr the poor
life into blackness and worthlessness. In the
other, love to Christ, the constraining and
beautiful law of the Christian heart, orders,
purifies and unifies the life, rendering it
capable of expressing God’s glory. "The
particles which make up the two lives are
alike, the little, homely duties which enlist us
all, but how vastly different are the results!
It is not too much to say that one is like a
charcoal, and the other, a diamond. Reader
which shall yours be?


CAUGHT BY A TELEGRAM.

	So long as women will be foolish, men will
be deceptive. One day I sat behind a couple
on an Ohio and Mississippi train, and it
wasn’t ten minutes before I discovered the
girl was a village belle who knew nothing of
the world, and that her companion was a trav-
eler who saw in her a victim. Several others
noticed her as well, but it was hard to see how
anything could be done. He professed great
admiration for the girl, and she blushingly
queried:
	“But how do I know that you are not a
married man?”
	“Oh, but I assure you on my honor that I
am not.”
	“Where do you live?”
	“In Louisville.”
	“And you have neither wife nor children?”
	“No.”
	At that instant the conductor came in with
a telegram and called out the address. “That’s
for me,” said the man in the seat ahead.
	It was handed to him, and he was smiling as
he tore it open. Next moment he fell forward
in a heap and rolled into the aisle in a dead
faint. Half a dozen of us, including the girl,
read the dispatch. It was dated at Indian-
apolis and read:
	“Your wife and baby burned up with the
house last night. Come at once.”
	It took us a quarter of an hour to bring him
to, and it was half an hour later when he left
the train. He had forgotten the girl who
shared his seat, and she was crouched down
and crying like a baby.—New York Sun,


Great objects form great minds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL HYMN.

Farewell,dear Friends, a long farewell,
	For we shall meet no more,
Till you have crossed the swelling flood
	To meet on the Shining Shore.

				CHORUS.
					There's sweet rest in Heaven.

Then gird up your loins and live upright
	While life is here with you;
And praise your God and Christ the Lord,
	He'l take all fear away

And when you land on that bright plain
	How happy you will be,
To dwell where God and Christ will reign
	Through all eternity.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS.

In the hour of God's reck'ning,
	When earth's conflicts are o'er;
When has ceased this world's bick'rings,
	And peace reigns evermore;
How sweet will be memories
	Of a righteous career:
Its fruits rich and priceless,
	Though oft garnered in tears.
Of days we've made brighter,
	The dark clouds we've dispelled,
Thereby burdens made lighter
	For souls weary and bowed.
Of works grand and eternal,
	In God's temples performed,
With hearts pure and unselfish,
	With Christ's virtues adorned.
With faith firm and unflinching,
	In the work here begun;
Ever true and unfalt'ring,
	Till life's labors are done.
						HELEN M. WHITNEY.
Dec. 30, 1890.


WHAT WOMAN HAS DONE.

She has rocked the cradle of the baby dear,
And wiped away each dewy tear,
Her hand has led through that sunny clime,
Where children's voices in sweet music chime;
Where the youth and maiden's untried feet
Would wander or falter at what they meet
In the path that leads through this life of ours,
Where mingle together the thorns and flowers.
Close, close by the pilgrim father's side
Stood the pilgrim mothers when the tide
Beat high upon the rock bound shore
That trembled at old ocean's roar.
In science and in art her name
Stands high upon the book of fame;
Imagination's fields are wide,
And she has delved from side to side.
She has explored the jungle deep,
The desert wild and mountain steep.
And she has kept the light-house torch
To guide aright each wandering barque;
To warn them from the danger land,
The rock, the whirl-pool or the strand.
We find her in the battle wild,
As warrior and as mercy's child;
As architect we find her too,
In Brooklyn bridge her work we view.
To starry worlds her path has led,
And where for Christ the martyrs bled,
As queen her fame can never fade,
And faithful subject has she made;
Old chains and bars she has defied
And now stands boldly by man's side
In college hall, and in art's high school,
In courts where law and justice rule;
Where man has been or e'er will go
Will find her too in weal or woe.
The sons are hers who rule the land,
And her's too are the outlaw band;
Her daughters claim her interest deep,
For them her care can never sleep.
Yet silent still must be her voice
For those who rule, she has no choice.


Fair Zion's daughters once posessed this right,
And swiftly grew in union, power and might.
Till Satan saw and trembling grew alarmed
And sought his minions, who his work performed.
Yet courage, oh! ye toilers in the cause
Of Woman's freedom from dark error's laws,
The Gospel-light will make her pathway plain,
Restore unto her every right again.
							HOPE.
Juarez, Jan. 27, 1891.


CAN I ENTERTAIN?

	As far back as history takes us we find men
breaking bread together. We find, too, that
those who eat the bread feel themselves under
obligation to those who furnish it, and that
they are quick to improve an opportunity to
return the favor. From some such rude be-
ginning came the laws which govern social
courtesies to-day. It is sometimes complained
that these laws are artificial and false. Give
us spontaneous social life, the disgruntled cry.
If the mooted regulations are analyzed we find
that they are controlled by two principles:
hospitality, which uses each opportunity to
show courtesy, and gratitude, which never fails
to return a favor received. Modern social
etiquette is often abused, no doubt, but a little
reflection will convince anybody that its prin-
ciples are sound, and that its growth has been
natural.
	Society is a union of congenial people for 
the sake of enjoying one another's companion-
ship, stimulating one another's ambitions,
sharing one another's ideas. It is feasible
only when everybody interested does his share
of entertaining. Society says this share shall
be in proportion to what one gets. She says
that he who would give, must receive; that no
person, no family, is excused from this law.
Now if this is not spontaneous sociability, it
is good sense. It may not be a sentimental
plan, but it is a practical one, which is much
more to the purpose.
	There are many persons who complain that
they cannot meet this rule. They want to go
but they claim they cannot return favors.
The usual excuses are that they have no
homes, that they never have entertained and
that they fear to begin, or that they cannot
afford the expense. "I am a homeless, self
supporting woman. What can I do?" "I 
am a bachelor. What can I do?" pleads one
class. Some of the most charming social 
centres we ever have seen were the simple
parlors of self-supporting women. They
were scrupulously honest in returning every
social courtesy extended, and because they
 were so careful they were invited frequently.
By their cordiality, their bright ways, their
intelligence, they gave a charm to their poor
quarters which no amount of money could
have provided. They paid their way in so-
cial life and held a recognized place. There
are old bachelors to whom the circles in which
they move owe much of their brightness and
interest. They are the counsel of the elders
in social questions, the guardian of the young
girls, the delight of the children, the refuge
of the wall flowers. They know that a con-
cert or lecture party is a fair exchange for a
dinner party. They know that a half-
Bohemian little supper in the private parlor
of a hotel, presided over by a married lady
friend, will compensate their circle of young
lady friends for their invitations to call and
to parties. They know that a bachelor's pic-
nic is the most charming of all picnics. And 
so they hold their position in society, without
imposing on the good-nature of their friends
or compromising their own self-respect. "No
home" is not a sufficient excuse to release
the person who wishes to go in society from
paying his society debts.
	Persons who would willingly entertain

[column 2]
generously but who never have done so,
dread to begin. They fear they will blunder.
They feel awkward. They are unwilling to
show themselves less familiar with social
practices than their neighbors. This is sup-
posing that the vital point in entertaining is
the appearance or style—a shoddy idea. A 
spirit of genuine hospitality, a desire to 
gather one's friends about, and to give them as
pleasant a time as possible, is the essential
point. It will be an unworthy guest who will
go away from the gathering where such a 
spirit prevails and criticise the style. Nor does
the house and its arrangements have nearly
the weight that many think. You must re-
turn what you receive, but return only in
good-will, in effort to make others happy. It
is not asked that in exchange for a glimpse of
somebody's family silver, you display Sevres
china, or that you receive in a satin-hung
room because you have been received in one
paneled in rosewood. Again, if the house is
too small to accommodate forty guests, it
may hold twenty, and twice twenty are forty.
The variety of social entertainment is great, 
and a house which will not allow a dinner
party may permit something less ambitious.
	The supposed cost of entertaining hinders
many persons. The money cost lies in the
refreshments, the decorations, the favors, the
hired entertainment, which are offered the
guest. Now, “decorations, favors, and hired
entertainment” are none of them necessary
to a successful dinner, lunch, or evening party,
and the refreshments may be as simple as
the hostess has courage to serve. People of
sense and taste go into society for other rea-
sons than to feast, to look at beautiful flowers,
to carry home dainty souvenirs, or to listen
to paid musicians or elocutionists. They  go
for the sake of the good-fellowship to be found.
If a hostess will see that her friends enjoy
themselves, her dinner may be as simple as
Madame Roland's to the ministers of the
French Cabinet, one of which when three
members of the cabinet were present is said
to have cost fifteen francs. She may give a 
party and furnish nothing but bouillon and
wafers; or coffee and sandwiches. She may
tender a reception and as the late Emperor
Frederick of Germany did when a young man
of limited income, serve nothing but a cup of
tea and a thin slice of bread with marmalade.
It is the spirit not the style or display which
is the real essence of entertaining. If the 
spirit of hospitality exists, there is nobody
who cannot entertain acceptably, even royally,
however humble his home and narrow his 
purse.—The Chautauquan.


THE NATION'S DEAD.

	The nation to-day is in grief over the loss
of one of its greatest and noblest of friends and
saviors. It is not the nature of a free people
to be worshippers of heroes. But there is
something in the soul of an honest freeman
that responds to the noble attributes of manly
men, through which before servile minds they
become heroes. This nation adored
General William T. Sherman; it will adore
his memory and through the years to come
will cling to his shrine with as strong devo-
tion as ever sanctified a hero's tomb. The de-
parted spirit whose loss we lament today was too
noble for the ages to obscure, was too humane,
and generous and lovable ever to be forgotten
or slighted. He goes to his final rest ripe in
years and in a halo of glorious associations
and memories. His life was a perfect round of
usefulness, benevolence and love. The nation
may grieve the loss of one whose life has sunk
so deep into its great and generous heart; but
it cannot mourn. There is no violence to man
or nature in his taking away. He goes only
to a natural rest.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 1, 1891.


A GLIMPSE OF WASHINGTON.

		THE WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	We had a pleasant journey to this city. Leaving
Salt Lake City, Monday, 7 a. m, Feb. 16, and
arriving in Washington, Thursday, Feb. 19, at
10 p. m., our train was delayed a short time at
Baltimore, or we would have reached here at 8:15
p. m. Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards met us at the
depot and accompanied our party to the Riggs
House, where we registered and obtained such
rooms as we could get, the house being already
pretty well filled.  Before we had been in the
house an hour we were delighted to meet in the
hallway, just for a moment, the dear friend of
woman, Susan B. Anthony, and she expressed
her pleasure at our coming, and gave us two or
three good words of welcome and of cheer that
we can never forget.
	It was arranged before separating for the night
that the following morning, Mr. and Mrs. Richards
would call (they are at the Randall) and take
those who wished to go to the White House and
the Capitol Buildings, etc.
	The next morning we went first to the White
House, then to the War, State and Navy Build-
ings, and in the afternoon to the Senate and
House of Representatives.  It is impossible to
tell you what we saw and heard, we would want
time and space for that, but Mr. Richards told us
all he could in the short space of time that we
were together, and it was all most interesting,
especially so to Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Bullock and
Miss Katie Thomas who had never been in
Washington before.
	During the day Mrs. Richards and the writer,
also Mrs. Thomas, succeeded in obtaining an ap-
pointment for an interview the next morning at
nine a. m. with Mrs. Sewall, the Committee on
Credentials for the Council.  This was very
satisfactory to all concerned, though we were
somewhat in doubt as to how the general officers
might vote upon our admission to the Council,
and here let it be understood that there are cer-
tain articles in the Constitution that have to be
complied with, etc., and several organizations
who came expecting to join the Council are go-
ing back without doing so, because of this and
that.
	On Saturday morning the Utah Delegation pre-
sented their credentials, and had an interview
with Mrs. Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y. of the Woman's
National Council as well as Committee on Cre-
dentials.  Mrs. Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Richards,
of Salt Lake City, were also with us.  Our inter-
view was satisfacory, as we were then informed
exactly what was expected of us.
	The Executive Committee held a meeting in
the afternoon, and after its close we were notified
that the Relief Society and Young Ladies'

[column 2]
Mutual Improvement Associations were admitted
to the Woman's National Council and the dele-
gates entitled to representation.
	Saturday evening Mrs. Spofford, the hostess
here, and a most magnificent woman in heart as
well as in appearance, gave a reception to the
ladies of the Woman's Council and Convention.
Many celebrated ladies were present besides
those who live in the house.  The large dining
room was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes; at one end there was an elevated plat-
form for the musicians, and in a conspicuous
place, at the end of the room, there was a large
flag hung with one lone star on it representing
Wyoming.  At the other end of the room stood
the ladies who were receiving with Mrs. Spofford;
Miss Frances E. Willard, President of the W.
N. C., and N. W. C. Y. U., she has a lovely face
and most genial expression, a smile and pleasant
word for everybody.  Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Vice-President at large, etc., etc., and large she
is in every way as well as liberal, she is certainly
one of the grandest women of her time, or any
other time; Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the Cor.
Sec'y. of the W. N. C., and one of the ablest and
brightest women of the day.  She has excellent
executive ability, and is exceedingly helpful with
suggestions and ideas in all the work of the two
great bodies of women, who are now holding
sessions in this city, the Woman's Council and
the Suffrage Convention.  Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer,
the President of Sorosis, of New York City, was
one of the most attractive women leaders; she is
very much complimented in the papers and by
the people, not only on account of her beauty,
but style and elegance in dress.  Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer was in line with those who
were receiving; and the heart of the writer gave
a great bound at sight of her intelligent and
smiling face, remembering all her help and kind-
ness on our first visit to this wonderful city, and
how she had aided us with advice, and who will
never be forgotten.
	The reception was a brilliant affair, not so much
in the way of dress as in the brilliant eyes and
faces of the beautiful and celebrated women as-
sembled to greet the hostess and her co-workers.
There were, however, some very elegant costumes,
some artistic and Parisian.  Mrs. Rachel Foster-
Avery, whom Miss Anthony declares to be the
best cor. sec'y. in the world, wore a very heavy
white brocaded silk with an immense train, and
she looked charming.  She has one of the sweetest
faces and most fascinating manners.  There are
many we would like to mention by name, but
cannot do the subject justice, and so will only say
there were women lawyers, doctors, ministers,
artists, editors, correspondents and reporters.
	The ladies (for there were very few gentlemen)
congregated in groups chatting for a few minutes
in a friendly way, and later on a part of the com-
pany (for many had already retired) went up to
Mrs. Spofford's apartments, and were ushered
into a room profusely decorated with flowers,
where lunch was served in the most delightful way.
Icecream, cakes, dainties and salads, and the
most delicious coffee; but the greatest attraction
there was the presence of such women as Susan
B. Anthony, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Clara
Barton and others known to fame, whose noble
works are of themselves a living and lasting
monument. But we must pass on, and only give
them brief recognition now.
	Sunday there were services in Albaugh's Opera
House, as had been previously announced, and in
the evening an entertainment was given to raise
funds for a Mary Washington monument, although
as Miss Anthony said throughout the whole
affair, "they never even mentioned that Washing-
ton had a mother."
	Monday morning the Woman's National Coun-
cil was formally opened.  Miss Willard in the
chair, and by her side then and throughout the

[column 3]
entire Council, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs.
Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y., was the right hand
director and manager.  She seemed to be the
chief person on the staff to assist the President.
Rev. Anna Shaw was one of the most efficient
helps, and is a most eloquent speaker, as well as
being very executive in all her work.  She had
charge of the bell and was the time-keeper, so
much time being allotted to each speaker, and it
was her duty to give the signal, even if in the middle
of a sentence.
	Miss Anthony would almost invariably arise
and say in her conciliatory manner, it will all be
given in the official report of the Council.
	The President's address to the Council was
the leading feature of the opening and was im-
mediately printed in pamphlet form and circulated
free.  It opened with these significant words o
Elizabeth Cady Stanton's, "A difference of
opinion on one question must not prevent us from
working unitedly on those on which we can
agree."
	After Miss Willard's speech, which was a grand
one in every sense of the word, came Anna
Garlin Spencer, who spoke upon "State Control
and Social Care of Dependent Classes;" then
"The Care of Defective Children," Fanny B.
Ames; "The Need of Women in Public Institu-
tions," Dr. Rose Wright Bryan; "Our Duty to
Dependent Races," Alice C. Fletcher; "Women
as Police Matrons," Lillie Devereux Blake.
	It is not the intention to go into details in this
article, but give the opening of the great National
Council of Women, to which several great or-
ganizations of women have been admitted.  Per-
haps it will convey but little of the true idea
after all, but it shall be the pleasure of the writer
to explain and make clear, to as many as possible,
this federation of womens' organizations after her
return home.
	In regard to the Delegates from the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A., in which the members
of these organizations are more specially in-
terested, it will perhaps do as well to give you the
newspaper reports, until you get it officially from
the regular report of the Woman's National
Council which is to be published.  Here is the
statement of the Washington Post, the reporter
of that paper sitting in the Council during the
several sessions of that body:
	"Miss Willard then introduced Mrs. Caroline
St. Thomas, the delegate from the Young Ladies'
National Improvement Association, who read an
interesting paper descriptive of the work of the
young ladies' organization, which had done a
great deal for its members.
	"Mrs. Jane S. Richards, delegate from the
National Women's Relief Society, in a few words
expressed the pleasure she had experienced on
her attendance on the council. She gave way to
Mrs. Emily Wells, of Utah, who told something
of the Relief Society, which had its head-
quarters in New York, and had been in existence
over half a century.  There were branch societies
all over the country and in some foreign lands.
It had over 400 branches, 25,000 members, $100,-
000 worth of real estate, a hospital managed
solely by women, and published a paper, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"It was an uncompromising enemy of the dram
shop, and when women had the right of suffrage
in Utah, the society furnished a rallying point for
the women of the State.  The society had done a
world of good works of charity, and was one of
the most benevolent organizations of women ex-
tant."
	The Woman's Tribune of Feb. 28, gives, in the
report of the Council, the following concerning
our delegation:
	"Next on the list, The National Improvement
Society, was represented by Mrs.  Thomas, who
spoke briefly on and told in an interesting manner


of the benefit young ladies were deriving from
it.
	“The next speaker introduced to the audience
was Mrs. Richards, of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, who began her brief address by
saying:  'I have the honor to represent Utah.
The 25,000 women whom I represent are seeking
to have love and  peace and goodwill extended to
all. On account of the length of the programme
I will not speak longer, except to say that I am
stopping at the Riggs House, and will be pleased
to answer questions there. I will now give way
to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.’
	“Mrs. Wells is editor of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, of Salt Lake City, and one of the most
interesting women at the Council. She has been
chastened and spiritualized by suffering into a
sympathy with woman that truly represents the
spirit of Him whom those of her faith call Master,
as well as those of Christian denominations.
Mrs. Wells gave a short account of the Relief
Society. Its headquarters are in New York; but
it has branch societies all over the country, a hos-
pital managed entirely by women, and has its own
organ—The WOMAN'S EXPONENT." 
	The three days’ sessions of the Woman’s
National Council were of an exceedingly interest-
ing character. In fact so much has been crowded
into the minds and hearts of the people who have
been listening through these three days that it
will take weeks of thought to digest the whole
matter, and sufficient material has been furnished
to occupy the next four years in developing;
the seed which has been planted will surely
bring in a rich, a golden and abundant harvest
that will bless and comfort the world of humanity.
	Grand, noble, yea queenly,are the women who
are laboring to unite, in a great band of sister-
hood, the several great organizations and bring
them in loving unison and fellowship one with
another and blessed mutual helpfulness. That
the Lord is working through His Holy Spirit upon
the women of this nation, and other nations,
must be apparent to all who have eyes to see,
and ears to hear. That this is woman’s era who
can longer doubt? Among the foremost of the
women of the world, who are actively engaged in
the great questions that are being agitated for the
benefit of the women of our own and other
lands (and what uplifts women, elevates the
whole human family), are the very women who
have planned and carried into effect this union of
organizations, this great federation of associa-
tions. One very pleasing and promising feature
of the Council is the great number of bright, in-
telligent, attractive young women that have come
forward and taken an active part in the work-
This is specially gratifying, for it is and must
necessarily be the young women of the present
century upon whom the great burden of respon-
sibility will fall and who are to work out the lines
of progression that will ensure the victory desired
for those who have toiled, lo, these many years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE !

	The reports from the various branches of the
Relief Society throughout the Territory and
the region adjoining, should be forwarded to Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, at the Deseret Hospital, Salt
Lake City, so as to reach there no later than
March 20th, 1891. If they are not received by
April 1st, they will not be included in the com-
piled report.
					SARAH M. KIMBALL, Sec.


LUCY DECKER YOUNG.

	Sister Lucy Decker Young, wife of the late
President Brigham Young, passed quietly away
at 6 o'clock, Saturday morning, Jan. 24th, 1891.


She was born at Phelps, Ontario County, New
York,  May 17th, 1822.  Her death occured at
the residence of her daughter,  Mrs.  Mira  Y.
Rossiter.
	Her illness extended nearly three months, and
during that time she suffered intensely, but un-
complainingly, enduring her sickness with the
same patience and fortitude that ever char-
acterized her every action in life.  She embraced
the Gospel at an early age, and came to Salt Lake
City in the year 1848.  She endured the priva-
tions and persecutions that the Saints had to
undergo, bearing up bravely under all circum-
stances; cheering and comforting those around
her, extending charity to the needy, and ever
ready to lend a helping hand to those in distress.
She bore poverty and trouble without a murmur,
and in the home circle shone with undimmed
lustre.  Her counsel was ever instructive and
veneficial. One of her greatest characteristics
was her keen perception and prompt answers to 
questions of importance.  She was the mother of
ten children, seven of whom, with one sister and
two brothers, remain to mourn her loss.  She was
singularly  reticent and unobtrusive,  scarcely 
leaving her own fireside, but withal never ceas-
ing to do good whenever she had the opportunity.
No call upon her was made in vain, and her
sympathy was ever great to those in need. Her
determination to do right was ever uppermost in
all things. She was humble, and a devoted
servant to her. Master, and when He saw fit to 
call her home, she was ready to go. Her work
was done.  Throughout her whole life she was
pure and unaffected, being solicitous for the com-
fort and happiness of those around her, she was
a devoted mother, a loving wife, and won the
friendship of all who knew her.
	This was proven during her sickness by the
many inquiries made by relatives and friends,
proffering a helping hand to alleviate her suffer-
ings.  These attentions were gratefully appre-
ciated by the members of her family, as was also
the sympathy extended in her approaching death
	The services were conducted at the residence of 
her daugther and were both impressive and com-
forting.  She was noble looking in life, and most
beautiful in death.  Her work was finished, her life
ended.  Her crown is priceless, her reward sure.
May her children emulate her many virtues and
live so as to meet her who has "gone before."
								M. Y. R.


TO LUCY D. YOUNG.

Her life's work ended—rounded and complete,
	All earthly problems given noblest test,
We know that death's low whisper sounded sweet,
	Bidding her enter in to peace and rest.

Not with vain tears that good life's quiet close
	Now shall be mourned—for o'er all earthly grief—
We know on high what songs of joy arose
	From kindred spirits greeting her relief.

We know the sorrows that had bruised her heart
	In long past years, turning to night its day,
Are healed with balm God's loving hands impart
	To those who nobly tread earth's thorn paved way.

No longer in that patient heart the sound 
	Of sad sea murmurs waken pain and dread;
In that far world is hope's fulfilment found—
	Earth and the sea have yielded up their dead.

And filled with gladness, crowned with meed complete,
	She lives and labors with her kindred dear,
Filling in joy, with humble heart and sweet,
	The glorious mission of that higher sphere.
						JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


The Sabbath is the link between the Paradise
which has passed away and the Paradise which
is yet to come.—Doctor Wylie.


WOMEN OF THE NATION.

		A REPRESENTATIVE GATHERING.

	At the Riggs House Feburary 21st, were
gathered together, in a social way, more repre-
sentative and progressive women than were
probably ever seen at one time in this country.
The event was a reception tendered by Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford to the officers of the Wo-
man's National Council, which begins its first
triennial session this afternoon.
	The reception was held in the large dining
room of the Riggs House, which had been
cleaned and decorated for the occasion.
Around the walls of this spacious room were
hung the national colors and evergreens, while
in the windows and ranged about the orchestra
were palms, flowers, and tropical plants in pro-
fusion.  On entering the room the first thing
to attract the eye was a large American flag
which, instead of the forty-four stars in the
Union Jack, had one large lone star with the
word "Wyoming" inscribed under it.  It is
safe to say that not a single one of the hun-
dreds of earnest women there but turned more
than once to this symbol of woman's emancipa-
tion.  Here was the first break in the chain of
forty-four States that had denied the right of
suffrage to women.  The star of progress,
according to the advanced ideas of women
suffragists, has risen in the West,and Wyoming
is honored by the enthusiasts as the first
State to accede to women citizens equal rights
with the men.  The Wyoming star was the
centre of attraction last evening.  At the
southern end of the dining-hall an orchestra
of string instruments discoursed sweet music
and kept up a pleasant accompaniment to the
hum of conversation and gentle laughter that
filled the room.
	Nearly everybody, that is nearly every lady,
was there.  At least 500 people greeted the
receiving party during the two hours of the 
reception which lasted from 9 to 11.  The
reception was informal and a lady in a street
dress, or a gentleman in a morning coat did
not feel out of place, as there was plenty of 
company. Ther sterner sex was wofully in the
minority, although a score or more of gentle-
men had the courage to breathe the same
atmosphere with this crowd of brainy, witty,
and pretty young, old, and middle-aged ladies.
Everybody was there, and everybody was
made welcome.  A more amiable and gentle
assemblage could not be imagined.  The pro-
verbal sewing-circle gossips and short haired
women's rights cranks, that have unfortunately
become associated in the public mind with
every woman's movement, were conspicuous
for their absence, and in their stead was a
company of stately, amiable ladies, whose quiet
earnestness and subdued enthusiasm testified
that refinement and public spirit are not in-
compatable.
	At the left of the entrance, and stretching
almost across the wide hall, were the receiving
ladies, separated from the immense throng by
a canvas covered rope.  On the extreme right,
heading the receiving line, was Mrs. Jane H.
Spofford, the hostess of the evening.  Mrs.
Spofford carried the honors of her position
extremely well, as she always does.  Next to
her was that quiet-looking little woman who
has stirred up the temperance element of
Washington during the last week—Miss
Frances E. Willard, president of the Woman's 
Council.  Next came the veteran in the cause
of woman suffrage—Miss Susan B. Anthony, a
grasp of whose hand was most eagerly sought
for by the guests.  Next to her was Mrs. M.
Louise Thomas, the treasurer of the council,
and a lady known from one end of the country
to the other for her grand work in the elevation
of women.  Miss Clara Barton came next, the
president of the Red Cross Society, a lady


whose work of humanity has enshrined her in
the hearts of thousands of sufferers in this
country. Alongside of Miss Barton was the
bright corresponding secretary of the council,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis.
Next came Jennie C. Croly, whose writings
under the nom de plume of Jennie June are
known and loved from one end of the country
to the other. By her side was Mrs. Rachel
Foster-Avery, corresponding secretary of the
International Council of Women. Then came a
lady so well-known in this city, Rev. Anna
H. Shaw, president of the Wimodaughsis. By
her side was Mrs. Mary T. Lathrap, of Michi-
gan, who has been heard during the past week
on the platform of the White Ribboners.
Next to her stood one of New York's brightest
ladies—Ella Dietz Clymer, president of the
Sorosis Club. Then came Miss Mary S. Lock-
wood and Mrs. M. D. Lincoln, representatives
of the Woman’s National Press Association;
Mrs. Estelle M. H. Merill, of the New Eng-
land Women's Press Association. The last
lady in the line was Mrs. Florence Balgarnie,
a distinguished representative of woman's work
in London, where, in addition to many other
offices, she is president of the British Woman's
Temperance Association.
	These were women, nearly all of whom have
achieved a world-wide reputation in the various
lines of women's work and endeavor. Before
this distinguished party the common, every-
day individual felt disposed to stand in awe,
and still there was nothing awe-inspiring in
their appearance as they stood and chatted
with the guests as they were presented one
after another. They were clothed like other
women, except, perhaps, in better taste than
one-half the would-be society leaders; they
wore their hair, much of which showed the
whitening frost of public service, like other
women; they talked like other women, and
laughed like other women—in fact the only
thing that made them differ from the hun-
dreds of gaily-dressed sisters who came to meet
and gaze upon them,was a sort of halo that sur-
rounds those eminent in devotion to grand objects
distinguished in literature and other paths that
lead to fame.
	The following are a few of the many dis- 
tinguished people noticed at the reception:
	Mrs. William Todd Helmuth, of New York,
wife of the world-renowned surgeon, Dr.
Helmuth; Dr. Rachel Gleason, of Elmira,
N. Y.; Judge and Mrs. William Lawson, Mrs.
Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Brooklyn,sister of
the late Henry Ward Beecher; Dr. Caroline
B. Winslow, Dr. and Mrs. La Fetra, Mrs. J.
C. Wenham, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss
Emily B. Ketcham, of Grand Rapids; Mrs. P.
Clarence Tabor, of Grand Rapids; Mr. and
Mrs. Scales, Miss Howe and Miss McDonald,
of Toronto, Canada; Mrs. Helen B. Jenkins,
of Detroit; Hon. Jerry Simpson, of Kansas;
Representative McComas, ex-Gov. Price, of
New Jersey, and many others,including promi-
nent ladies and gentlemen of Washington.
	The reception began promptly at 9 o'clock,
and for two hours a constant stream of people
crowded past the receiving line until the
ladies were grateful for a rest. The unusual
character of the gathering made it one of the
most interesting events that has ever taken
place in the city.
	Genial-faced dominies, in black cashmere
and silk, will show the audience, at the first
public meeting of the triennial session of the
Woman's National Council, in Albaugh's
Opera House, Feb. 22nd, what eloquence in
female pulpit orators amounts to.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mrs. E. B. Wilworth, the former editor of
the Pythian, (Saginaw, Mich.) accepts a $1,000
clerkship in the office of the Secretary of the
State of Michigan.


POLI TICS.
THE MEETING, WHY I WENT, AND WHO I SAW
			AND HEARD.

	I had heard of Poli Tics, but had never
seen her. I believed her to be a wonderful
woman, but had little idea what she was really
like.
	When the information was given me (very
privately) that she would be at the meeting, I
determined, though it was at the last moment,
that I would go. It did not take me long to
get ready,and I rushed hurriedly along until I
reached the door—there I paused! The
thought that women only would compose the
meeting had made me feel quite fearless. Now
what was my astonishment to hear the strong,
masculine voice of Jo Cose laughing heartily
at an expression made by his little sweetheart,
Merri ment. I was, however, too much in
earnest to be frightened away at the sound of a
man's voice; especially as I knew now that
meeting was not yet commenced, and I had
the advantage of being early; so after a
moment's hesitation, I walked in. Of course
my eyes would turn towards that portion of the
congregation from whence had proceeded the
pleasant sound of Jo's voice. There he sat,
surrounded by ever so many of his classmates,
among whom I recognized Ed Ucation, Dic
Tator, Nat Ural, Hu Mility and Gym Nastics.
	Dear old Ante Diluvian sat in the big 
chair, and with her neat old fashioned cap,
her plain, comfortable dress and easy graceful
manners, she seemed to be the moving and
ruling spirit in the meeting. With that
deference which we usually show to those who
consider themselves our superiors, Ante asked
Dic Tator to call the meeting to order, and
"preside." Dic took the chair with his char-
acteristic unconcern and self-reliance. And
after the opening exercises, he showed himself
the real gentleman by asking Ante to make
the first speech. She arose in her quiet, digni-
fied way, and said the object of the meeting
was to bring together a great many influences
that were operating, in these days, in rather a
desultory manner, and by seeking to unite
them, it was hoped that they might be utilized
to far greater advantage than they could be in
their disconnected state. She alluded to the
vast difference between the ways of living in
these times and in her early days. But in re-
gard to religion, she thought the world was in
much the same condition now as when she
was young. Then Noah preached to the
people and endeavored to arouse them to a
sense of their wickdness and the dangers
awaiting them if they would not repent. But
they refused to listen to him, and the con-
sequence was their great destruction by the
flood. In these days the world refuses to accept
the light of truth which has come into it, and
will not heed the warning sent; therefore the
destruction of the wicked, the end of the world
is fast approaching.
	While Ante was talking, I was thinking,
what a good meeting we were having and how
all present were enjoying it, when I happened
to see Mis Chief at one end of the room,
blinking her eyes viciously, and poking up her
nose in a sneering manner, to attract the atten-
tion of Bell Igerent and Ani Mosity who sat
quite a distance from her. When the speech
was ended, she beckoned them to go and sit
by her, and they went. Alas! I thought, Eden
was not without an evil serpent, nor are we
free from the effects of its operations to-day.
	I was glad that neither of the three last
named persons found an opportunity of ad-
dressing the meeting; though they whispered
almost incessantly, and at the close of the
meeting elbowed through the crowd in a most
disgusting manner, and talked loudly of the
inconsistency of "Poli Tics and Poly Gamy

[Column 2]
pretending to be such great freinds, when
everybody knew that their pursuits were as
unalike as were those of the Duke of
Wellington and Mr. Bob Ingersol, or
Susan B. Anthony and Kate Field."
	The next speaker was Ele Gance. She was
attired with the most exquisite taste, and
looked charming indeed. She believed the
cause for which the meeting was called to be a
good one,and was willing to work for it. The
refinement and elevation of taste, manners and
sentiments, especially among the young, was a
very desirable object, and one in which she
felt deep interest. True refinement belonged
to every truly noble character, and should be
carefully cultivated by all.
	Ed Ucation was next called to the stand.
He said the real intent of this meeting was
scarcely yet made clear to his mind. He was
not so quick of comprehension as were some,
but felt that he would be the better for attend-
ing the meeting, as he believed, as far as he
understood it, it was for mutual benefit. To
gain intelligence, and to use that intelligence
in doing good should be the leading pursuit
of every man and every woman. If an
organization for such purposes was in contem-
plation by those who had called the meeting,
the movement would have his hearty support.
He believed that organizations for the bringing
together of different minds, different grades of 
intellect, different degrees of intelligence, were
a grand source of development to all interested. 
	Nat Ural being asked to address the meet-
ing, said he was an advocate for all sensible
reforms. He believed in everything that
tended to enlighten the understanding and
enlarge the capacities of men and women and
boys and girls. But he liked short exercises
of some kind, in which all should take some
part, rather than to have all the time occupied
by a few. We all have brains, we all have
tongues, and we should learn to use them,
that we may preserve our identity; be "our-
selves" instead of trying to imitate others whom
we admire. He liked originality.
	Gene Rosity was called upon for a speech,
and cheerfully responded. To follow the
suggestion of the last speaker, she should have
to sav something more than to endorse what
had already been said. She did not propose
to criticise Nat's speech, but would add a little
to it. In her opinion, it was better for
young people to copy the good in others than
to think so much of originality as to carry out
less worthy designs and ideas of their own.
"There is nothing new under the sun" anyhow,
and whether our talents are great or small, the
best and wisest course for us all to pursue is
to cultivate a disposition to do good wherever
and in whatever way we can. It is by no
means the ones who possess the brightest
intellects or the finest accomplishments, who
always manifest the kindest spirit, the most
goodness of heart,and the least selfishness. Yet
these fundamental principles are the most
productive of happiness, both to ourselves and
others. Gene then begged leave to introduce
to the audience her brave and much abused
sister, Poly Gamy, whom, she was sure, they
would all like to hear.
	Dic said "yes," with all his heart; and
Poly received the cheers of the audience with
a bow and a smile, and followed with her ad-
dress.
	"My sister speaks truly," she said, "I have
been abused! I have been slandered, misjudged
and misused generally, ever since my earliest
recollections. I have sometimes felt almost
friendless and alone; and but for the gentle
fidelity, the comfort and consolation I have
always found in Gene, I must have died years
and years ago. When I have been imprisoned,
or compelled to leave my home and seek refuge
from my enemies wherever I could, she has
borne her part of the burden with the meek-


ness of a lamb, and with the fortitude and
resolution of an ancient Greek. When I have
seemed to be deserted by all others, Gene has
still stood by me like a—I was going to say
like a “brick,” but as that might be considered
slang, I will say like the true heroine she
is. But you all know Gene, and I have no
need to expatiate farther upon her estimable
qualities. I would here make honorable men-
tion of my faithful and valued relative, Hu
Mility. He has,indeed, been a true friend and
wise counselor in all my wanderings, my sor-
rows and distress. But for the peace of mind
which always comes to me under the influence
of his benign presence, the encouragement and
support which he has given, I think I must
have gone mad many a time. And now I
wish to thank you all, at least each one of you
who has ever spoken a word in my favor, or
assisted in any way to shield me from the
violence of my persecutors. I will also make
a request, that none of you will ever think of
inviting me to partake of your hospitality un-
accompanied by my sister Gene and our friend
Hu. For without them I am the worst creature
alive; it is really quite impossible for me to
make myself the least agreeable unassisted by
the sunshine of their smiles, their tender
thoughtfulness and love.”
	Hu Mility was called for, but declined the
honor of making an address. Dic insisted,
however, and Hu arose, blushing like a school
girl in her first attempt to sing in company.
He said he was not aware of having done so
much good as his friend Poly gave him credit
for. In matters of moment he always sided
with those whom he thought to be in the
right, regardless of the opinion of the world
or the operations of evil doers. He had al-
ways befriended Poly because she had been
unrighteously aggrieved and condemned with-
out fault. He could sympathize with her, for
he was often slighted and treated with injustice
himself; and somehow, she had always clung
to him as though he were one of her main
stays.
	A speech from Gym Nastics was called for,
and that gentleman dilated somewhat upon
the benefits of physical cultivation and de-
velopment. He said if ladies knew how much
their health and strength and consequent en-
joyment of life would be improved by regular
physical exercises, performed in a systematic
way, they would give more attention to such
matters than they now do.
	After Gym sat down, there was a little
rustling and whispering about the stand, and
I began to think that, after all, meeting would
close without my seeing or hearing anything of
the one I came on purpose to see and hear.
	Then Dic arose and begged the indulgence
and attention of the audience for a very few
moments longer, while we should listen to the
able, learned and eminently gifted Poli Tics.
	She stood up, apparently unmoved, amid a
storm of applause, and holding up one hand
to silence the clapping and cheers, began to
speak.
	“I am no longer young,” she remarked, “and
my voice is not as firm and steady as it has
been at other times, in the halcyon days of my
youth and beauty, or in the strength and glory
of middle age. And if you would hear me
speak, you must be quiet and attentive.
(Dead silence). I presume you have all
heard of me, and have learned some little con-
cerning my character and my views. But I
am so little understood, even by those who
claim great familiarity with me, that I am
quite sure none of you (who make no such
pretentions) have ever heard much truth about
me. Like my young friend, associate and
namesake, Poly Gamy, I am regarded by
many in a false light; I am evil spoken of be-
cause of the misdeeds of those who profess to
be my best friends and ablest advocates, who

[Column 2]
all the while ignore the true principles which I
would have considered and respected. I am,
probably, the oldest one in this room. At all
events, I have lived long and learned much.
It pleases me to be introduced to such an
audience as the one before me. It is my de-
light to associate with those who seek to ad-
vance in the scale of real greatness. The
sole aim and object of all my efforts is to
promote the public welfare, to maintain the
public peace. Those who would work with
me and for me should learn who I am and of
what my principles consist. But I am grieved
to have to say that many who profess to be my
faithful adherents know little and care less
about me. By such, my name is continuously
made use of in a fraudulent manner, to serve
their own selfish purposes. I can tell you
that the Decalogue of olden times, contains the
fundamental principles of the system by which
I would have people governed. How many
of the would-be lawmakers and lawmain-
tainers of these days know anything of this?
The grand and superb structures of different
classes, which exist and have existed in
different nations, since the foundation of the
earth was laid, are all the results of strict
obedience to the system by which I would
have men and women work. Because of the
wealth and popularity which have been be-
stowed upon me, through wise and economical
management of our energetic and unselfish
workers, because of my own intrinsic value—
I say it with feelings of reverence for the cause
I represent, and without thought of boasting—
the ignoble and dishonest hang on to my skirts
and clutch at my apron strings to make it
appear that they are lawful attendants upon
me. They care nothing for me or my true
and loyal followers. It is our wealth they are
after. But once in a while I shake myself,
and away they go, sprawling about under my
feet, where, only for mercy’s sake, they would
all be soon trampled to death or tossed into
the pen. Mercy will, by-and-bye make room
for justice, however, and then will occur worse
shakings than we have yet known. But I have
trespassed upon your time too long already,
and must leave future developments for future
times.”
	Thus ended the speech of the venerable and
dignified Poli Tics, and the meeting adjourned
sine die.
			Yours sincerely,
							MYS TERIOUS.
	S. L. City, Dec. 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. S. ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is with pleasure we inform you of the
organization of the Relief Society of the South
Plymouth Branch of the Malad Stake of Zion,
with Fannie W. Garnes, Pres. Alice Ann
Smith, First Coun. and Julia A. Richards,
Second Coun. Louisa M. Stevenson, Sec., and
Caroline W. Hess, Treasurer. There was a
general meeting held Nov. 30th, 1890, when
the Pres and Sec. were chosen, but on ac-
count of the Pres. being absent from home the
organization could not be completed. There
were present the Presidency of the Relief
Society of Malad also the Stake Presidency
and others. We had a real enjoyable time.
	On Jan. 18th, 1891, there was a meeting
held when the counselors were selected.
There has been one Relief Society held since
the organization, when the Treasurer was
chosen and prospects are we shall have good
meetings.
			FANNIE W. GARNES, Pres.
			LOUISA M. STEVENSON, Sec.


A pleasant manner attracts a man; bright-
ness of brain holds him.


WOMAN'S WORK IN ARCHAEOLOGY.

		BY FRANZ XAVER KRAUS.

	Miss Margaret Stokes, the daughter of a
Dublin professor, who has given herself up to
the study of Irish antiquities. Her share in
the publication of Lord Dunraven's great work
on Irish architecture established her reputa-
tion. She then enriched Celtic learning by an
original work of the first order, in which she
published the early Christian inscriptions
collected by George Petrie, a work which has
come to be regarded as the first sure ground
won from the Christian epigraph for the
science of the Celtic language and for its
literary history. Her latest task is a little
book, which I am glad to recommend to all
visitors to London and Great Britian as a
guide to the early Christian art relics of the
island. It belongs in the series of art hand-
books gotten out by the South Kensington
Museum. Following the casts and exhibits of
the museum it gives briefly a learned and
complete survey of the early Christian monu-
ments of Ireland and England. We have
nothing like it in Germany. It is a remark-
able witness to the thorough scholarship and
the sound critical judgment of the author.
No man could have done better than this
brave college girl.
	Two women must be named who have been
great treasures to their husbands, whose mag-
nificent investigations and excavations have
filled the world with their fame: Mrs. Dr.
Schliemann, of Anthens, and Madame Dieu-
lafoy, of Paris. I cannot give my judgment
as to the really masculine culture of the two
ladies, but they both deserve high esteem for
their courage, self-denial, and sympathy with
high scientific ends, for their perseverance
and energy. These names always will be a
proof that tasks which require physical en-
durance, courage, and risk can be opened suc-
cessfully to and supported by women.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The school children of California are to
make a collection of wild flowers of the State
which will be exhibited at the World’s Fair.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Miller was recently elected
a member of the Board of Health, of Muncie,
Indiana.

	Mrs. Hodgson Burnett is said to be the
most popular woman writer in Paris, and many
of her books have been translated into
French.

	There are about 2,500 women in the United 
States who hold diplomas from medical col-
leges. The first woman physician was Eliza-
beth Blackwell, who graduated in 1848.

	Prof. Harriet Cooke, professor of history in
Cornell, is the first woman ever honored with
the chair and equal pay with the men pro-
fessors. She has taught in Cornell twenty- 
three years.	

	Mrs. Alice W. Brotherton and Mrs. Mary
Patton represented the Woman’s Press Club
of Cincinnati, at the late International Con-
vention of the Press Clubs of the United
States, held at Pittsburg,Pennsylvania.

	A nurse of the war of 1812, Mrs. Elizabeth
Sands, died at Baltimore lately, aged 101
years. She was a person of great activity,
and it is said that after having passed her one-
hundredth birthday she would go up and
down stairs thirty times a day.


A few days since a lad desired a copy of
the Constitution of the United States, and
wrote to a Congressman for it. But to the
surprise of Congressman and officials it is not
found among the publications of the Govern-
ment. It would be well to have women at the
head of National affairs for a time, because
such an oversight as this would then no more
occur, than a woman would keep house with-
out a cook book.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TESTIMONY OF MOTHER WALKER.

	[Testimony and farewell of Mother Walker,
composed by her in her eighty fifth year.
Written by her grandson, John Coombs.]
	Thirty-seven years ago I obeyed the Gospel.
The Spirit told me it was solemn truth.
When I heard I obeyed it instantly and with-
out delay. I went down into the water that I
might have my sins washed away.
	I have never yet doubted, and I feel to
praise the Lord every day for his goodness
unto me,I love and fear my Heavenly Father,
and while I remain on the earth's sphere I
pray that I might remain calm and peaceful
until the time of departure comes. When my
spirit has left this mortal clay, lay my body
quietly down in mother earth, that it may
remain in peace until the resurrection morn-
ing.
	Then when the trumpet sounds, for it will
sound both loud and long, the righteous
will come forth from the grave to meet in air,
the Heavenly throng. Angels will guide them
to meet Christ and God on high.
	The scripture tells us that we will be chang-
ed in the twinkling of an eye.
	And when the blessed resurrection day is
past, the righteous in their celestial bodies
will praise the King of Glory through that
long eternity.
	The Lord will have His saints before Him
on that Heavenly Sabbath day, and they will
sing songs of heavenly glory, and when ten
thousand years are gone and ten thousand
more are passed, then eternity is but be-
gun, for it will forever and forever last.
	If mortals would live uprightly through
this life which God has given them here, they
would have no need to fear, for they would
find "Sweet rest in Heaven, sweet rest in
Heaven." Amen.


OBITUARY.

	Death of Elizabeth Walker, born at Bains Bridge, York-
shire,England,Aug. 15th, 1802. Emigrated from Bradford
to Utah, 1861. Died Feb. 2nd, 1891, aged 88 years 5
months and 17 days. She kept the conference house in
Bradford, England, for several years.


IN MEMORIAM.

	With much sadness we announce the death of our dear
sister, Lucy Lodica, beloved wife of John Spencer,
daughter of Hyrum and Lucina Elmer,who died of dropsy,
after a long and painful illness, at Lake Shore, Utah Co.,
Dec. 14th, 1890. She was born in Lee Co., Iowa July 3rd,
1843. Came with her parents to Utah, Salt Lake Co., in
the year 1852, moved to Payson, 1857. She was married
at the early age of fifteen to Richard Spencer, who died
within four weeks after their wedding day. Two years after
her young husband's death, she was married to John
Spencer, Oct. 7th, 1860, by Pres. Brigham Young.
	In 1877 her husband was called on a mission to preside
over the Thistle Valley Indians; although it was a great
trial to leave her home, friends and relatives, she went with
him, and there performed a great and noble work.
	The life of Sister Spencer in connection with her husband
has been closely connected with the Indians since her
marriage	She has been mother, sister, friend and teacher
to them. Teaching them household duties and all kinds
of industries, giving them food, clothing and shelter, many


times depriving herself of necessaries to promote their wel-
	In 1882 she was appointed President of the Relief Soc ety
of the Lamanites, by Sister Eliza R. Snow, and ordained
by Pres. Peterson, of San Pete Co., Sister Spencer being
the first president placed over the Lamanite Society, did
more for their promotion and advancement, than any other
sister in the Church. She was a much beloved and ex-
emplary wife, a kind and affectionate mother, dearly loved
by parents, brothers, and sisters, and all who knew her.
Through the Edmunds law she is one of our sister martyrs.
At the age of 45 her youngest child was born and her
husband sent to prison. After having lived with him 28 years,
she was compelled to leave her family and home to go into
exile among strangers, suffering much and passing through
many severe trials. During the past six years she has
suffered terribly with two cancers,      *   *	which
were taken away by Dr Riggs, of Provo. The last one
was treated a little more than a year before her death.
	Sister Spencer and family removed to Lake Shore in
Aug. 1890, where she died, as she had lived, a true and
faithful Latter-day Saint. Leaving a husband, eight child-
ren, seven grand children, and a host of friends and
relatives who deeply mourn their loss.
							ANNIE B. ELMER.


ANNIE ASHBROOK BECKER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	It has been a long time since I promised you I would
write the obituary of my dear friend, Sister Annie Becker,
who departed this life Oct. 14th, 1890, aged 60 years, 4
months and 23 days. Sister Becker's maiden name was
Annie Ashbrook, she was born, May 1830, in Manchester,
England. Her parents were George and Kate Ashbrook.
	Her health had been failing for some time and when she
was called hence, to meet her Father in heaven, she was
satisfied to go, for she had verily come home to live and
die with the Saints of God in the valleys of the mountains—
the Zion of our God. When she knew she was going, as
we stood by her bedside she said these words, "I shall
soon pass through the valley of the shadow of death, but I
am not afraid." May we all have the same assurance
when we lay on our death bed: and after that she lay
peacefully waiting for the message of death, that comes to
all in time.
	I first became acquainted with her in Liverpool in 1852
or 1853. I had the pleasure of telling her first of the Gospel
and introduced her to the brethren in the office there. I
could stay but a days as I had to return home to Birming-
ham, but in a few weeks afterwards I had the news of her
conversion to the truih; she came to Utah with one of the
hand-cart companies in 1856. Brother F. D. Richard's wagon
came along in which she rode, she married a few months
afterwards Brother E. Cast, cabinet maker of the 13th
Ward, where I believe you became acquainted with her;
she left him through force of circumstances and lived for
some time in the 8th Ward; and was there married to her
lately bereaved husband, by whom she had two children,
a boy and a girl; the boy died when a few days old; the
girl still lives to mourn the death of a fond, affectionate
mother: and may she emulate her virtues, and be deter-
mined as she was to uphold the principles of truth.
	In 1863, like many others, Mr. and Mrs
Becker went to Virginia, Montana, thinking to stay a
few months and then return home. Times were hard and
they took a trip to England instead of returning here, but
not being satisfied, she (Mrs. Becker) soon sought the
Latter-day Saints and identified herself with them again;
they were living then in Brighton; our faithful Elders who
were traveling withont purse or scrip were ever welcome
guests at her home, I have no doubt many remember her
hospitalities with pleasure.
	Again she left her home in England for her home in "the
mountains of Ephraim," and arrived here, thankful to God
that He had permitted her to return safely.
	She was a faithful, kind friend, a warm defender of the
principles of life and salvation, and though through her
failing health she seldom could attend meetings she was
ever ready to do what was required of her through the
Relief Society in helping the poor and needy, and often
called around her as best she could, her faithful sisters, that
she could bless them and be blessed thereby.
	Peace to her ashes, may we be permitted to meet in the
morning of the first resurrection to rejoice together is my
prayer, trusting all is well. Accept my kind regards.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
							BETSY M. BROWER.
	Richmond, 1891.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Nalsbitt-Thomas,Sup

[column 1]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies &. Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall, Salt Lake City
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
RK. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir   
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 866, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

