VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15,1891.		NO. 16


CONTENTS.
	Among Eastern Women—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. Lehi W. S. A. Six Bright Women—
New York Sun. Practical Political Study The
Ideal Home—	Clara Selleck. Miscellaneous.
Items from Colorado—L. M. W. R. S. Reports
—Maricopa—Malad—Box Elder—Utah. W.S.A.
of Payson. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Mormon Wives and Mothers.
Three Score and Ten. The Baby—The Stand-
ard. Castle Rock Valley—S. E. R.  R. S. 22nd,
Ward—Adelaide Ridges.
	POETRY:—Lines on the Death of Emma
Abbott—Mary Olive Murray. A By-Gone Day
—Patty Cary. Shadow-Land—E. B. W. Seventy
—Lula. A Mother in Zion—Emily H. Woodman-
see.


LINES ON THE DEATH OF EMMA
				ABBOTT.

As the earth grew sad on New Year’s Eve
	At wasted hours, a dying,
An angel hovered near and heard,
	O’er all the sounds of sighing,
A voice, ascending to Heaven's dome,
And the song it sang was “Home, Sweet Home.”

And as it rose, still clearer, higher,
	The angel paus'd, on wing unfurl'd
“That voice is meet for God's own choir,
	Too angel like for this vile world !
No longer shall this pure one roam,
But sing in Heaven, at “Home, Sweet Home."

He touched the lips of the singer
	With his; at his blighting breath,
The voice to earth grew fainter—
	For the angel's name was Death.
But over the surging sea of foam
Floated back the echo "Home, Sweet Home!"

Not "hushed forever," not "silent,"
	That voice, divinely sweet !
'Tis ringing on thro' the ages,
	With accompaniment more meet;
And the words were writ in Heaven’s tone
That she sings with angels, at Home, Sweet Home.

Oh, quiet your strife and listen !
	'Twill dry the springing tear—
Reach heavenward to catch the strain
	That falls so soft, so clear;
Infinity her walls, eternity her dome,
Hear the sweet voice singing —"Come Home, Sweet
	Home!”
			MARY OLIVE MURRAY, Atlanta, Ga.
	Ex.


A BY-GONE DAY.

This morning in my hands I chance to hold
A well-worn book, and in its pages old
There lay three linden leaves with hue of gold.

Three perfect leaves ! And seeing them, I stood
Again beside my lover in a wood
Where shining linden leaves the ground bestrewed.

And, searching there, my true love gathered three;
"For love," he said, "for love—and thee and me,
To keep this golden day in memory."

And as he searched the linden leaves among
All tenderly he sang this olden song,
Whose words unto the melody belong:

"And the linden leans above me
Till I think some things there be


In this dreary world that love me—
Even me—even me."

And as he sang, and looked for leaves the while
His eyes sought mine with arch and tender smile.
What joy can e'er again my heart beguile—

Since Death has done to me this cruel wrong !
Has hushed the beating of a heart so strong,
And silenced evermore the voice of song ?

O precious leaves ! “For love—and thee and me?"
Amid the pages old they still may be,
But seeing them, again I seem to see

The loving face; the far off day seems near;
The voice I loved in song again is clear,
And once again those old-time words I hear;

“And the linden leans above me
Till I think some things there be
In this dreary world that love me—
Even me—even me."
			PATTY CARY, in The Woman's News.


AMONG EASTERN WOMEN.
			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	While writing of the women of the Orient,
one’s mind naturally reverts to Palestine, and
the women of the people to which that land
by right belongs, and where, ere long, the
daughters of Israel, will take their harps from
the willows and tune them to more joyous
themes, than for long ages past they have had
the heart to do. The Jewish woman as we see
her in the cities, not only in the East, but
throughout the known world, is one to call
forth our deepest sympathy and admiration.
Many of them beautiful as a dream, chaste
and patriotic, if the term may be applied to
the gentler sex, crushed beneath a load of sor-
row and misery; yet toiling on without com-
plaining to help their fathers, husbands, or
brothers, to bear the burden of their persecu-
tion, and the utter degradation to which they
are reduced and subjected.
	In Jerusalem, Rome, Paris, London, and
indeed in every city where the traveler stops
to rest, there are to be seen many a Ruth,
Esther, Miriam, or Deborah, sad-eyed and
weary, from long suffering and toil; and we
mentally ask, when will the harp of Israel be
again heard accompanying the songs of Zion,
and its music resound through the beautiful
city, and amid the vines and olives of Judea?
In no other European city can we see them
and their suffering more forcibly than in Rome.
In that city, for many years, the Hebrew race
had a chequered and uncertain career. The
seat of their original colony was not far from
the Ghetto,where they are now located, though
several families established themselves in the
quarter Franstivere, that is the portion of the
city across the Tiber. The Emperor Domitian
banished them to the valley of Egeria, a spot
between the present bosilica of St. John
Lateran, and the ruined baths of Carscalla;
they were not allowed to walk about the
more frequented streets, to build any place of
worship, or to occupy any public position.
But the full weight of their judicial ignominy,
and the accomplishment of the old prophecies
concerning them, did not culminate until Paul
the IV. shut them up within the wall of the
Ghetto. This word is derived from the Hebrew
chat. It signifies cut down, broken, abandoned.
Paul ordered that they should never appear in

[Column 2]
the streets of Rome, unless the women wore
yellow veils, and the men yellow hats. Yellow
in some countries is emblematic of ignominy.
	When Sixtus V. became pope, he, remem-
bering that the Jews were of the family from
which Christ came,treated them more liberally
and allowed them to build libraries and syna-
gogues. But all this was undone by Clement
VIII. and his immediate successors. And thus
they were made to suffer every indignity that
could be heaped upon them, until the early
years of Pius IX. (the last pope.) The first
sign of interest that he showed, was when he
gave a small coin to an aged beggar, who was
a Hebrew, “Sire,” said his attendant, “he is a
Jew.” The pontiff replied, “What does that
matter, he is a man.”
	The streets of the Ghetto are narrow,
crooked and dark, out of them are many blind
alleys, many of them not more than five or six
feet wide, and the squalor and filth is in-
describable, and the houses all have a look of
moldy decay. The Jewish race is here seen
in its saddest and lowest plight, not a ray re-
mains of its ancient glories. There are no
dignified forms, no keen and penetrating eyes,
none of those beautiful children, who in other
lands remind the Jew of the youth of his
nation; none of those superb black eyes, that
seem to unite the passions of Judith,the softness
of Esther, and the sadness of Rachel.
	The complexion is colorless, reminding one
of plants that have grown in the dark; this is
the result of imperfect ventilation and dark
abodes. One meets at every turn pale, stoop-
ing figures; on the steps, and within the house,
near the open windows, are seen starving wo-
men, laboriously plying the needle. Misery
stares forth from the tangled hair, and com-
plains silently in the yellow brown faces, no
beauty of feature recalls the countenance of
Rachel, Leah, or Miriam. Sometimes a glance
from a deep, set black eye, that looks up from
the needle and rags seems to say: “From the
daughter of Zion all her beauty is departed.
She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears
are on her cheeks, among all her lovers she
hath none to comfort her, all her friends have
dealt treacherously by her. How hath the
Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a
cloud in His anger.”
	The Ghetto is about the most densely popu-
lated spot in any European city. The streets
are parallel to the river, and connected by
narrow lanes. Old father Tiber is just as in-
consistent a river as he was in the days of Ovid
or of Horace. He overflows his banks as
often, and sends into the streets of the Ghetto,
from the upper country, quantities of mud
and sewer filth, which requires a great stretch
of the imagination to call yellow, the only
name that will give even a faint idea of it is
black stinking mud.
	It might be presumed that the inundations
leaving this abominable deposit on the streets,
would be highly prejudicial to the health of
the inhabitants, but such does not seem to be
the case; and this is attributable to several
causes. One is the frequent ablutions of the
people, who are for the most part Pharisees of
the strictest sect. They practise the custom of
washing the hands and feet before meals, a
custom so strictly commanded among the Jews,
when the Redeemer was on the earth,that to
neglect it, was to be held guilty of a capital
crime. And to this day when an Arab or
descendant of Ishmael, wishes especially to


welcome a stranger, he will himself wash his
feet. Another cause more readily appreciable
is the copious use of olive oil, both as a 
medicine and as an article of diet. But per-
haps the habit they have of whitewashing their
houses on the return of all their festivals, is
the best preventive of disease.
	Garibaldi proposed to turn the channel of
the Tiber by means of weirs, so that when the
snows melted on the Appenine and Alban
mountains no inconvenience would be felt
from the flood in the city. This magnificent
scheme was never carried out, owing to the
poverty of the Italian exchequer.
	It has been conjectured that if the course
of the river, as it passes through Rome, could
be dried up for one year, the spoils that would
be found buried deep beneath its alluvial soil,
would amply pay the cost of the undertaking.
But no capitalist could be found to advance 
money upon such a contingency.
	And yet, amid all the filth and squalor of 
the Ghetto, are yet to be seen the remains of
the portico of Octavia. They are situated in
the very centre of the settlement. In this
magnificent abode, with its courts and corridors;
Titus was received and feasted, after his re-
turn from the conquest of Judea, and destruc-
tion of Jerusalem. He went first to pay his
vows to Capitoline Jove, leaving poor Simon,
the last of the Pharisee patriots, at the foot of
the hill, from whence he was taken to the dark
and foetid dungeons of the Mamertine prison,
and there, according to the tigerish brutality of
Rome, he was put to death, while Titus was be-
ing riotously entertained in the halls of
Octavia.
	In the Spring of 1873 the writer visited
Rome and the Ghetto, and found it as she has
described it. The imagination even of D'Israeli
could find nothing there to suggest proud reco-
lections or animating hopes, but only the petty 
wants and works of the present, that borrow 
no dignity from the past or the future.
	My memory and my pen have run away
with me, and taken me into subjects I had not
at first intended to touch upon. But who that
has visited the "Eternal City," its splendid
buildings and monuments, splendid even in
decay, and its ruins, and read in their history
the unmistakable testimony they bear to the
truth of the Gospel, can refrain from giving
vent to feelings of admiration; or or see the
degradation to which the descendants of Abra-
ham have been subjected too, without an in-
describable feeling of sorrow and pity for their
suffering, merited though it may be, through
their rejection of the Redeemer. At the same
time sending up a prayer to heaven, that our
Father will hasten the day of their restoration
and redemption.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEHI W. S. A.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Lehi,
held their annual meeting Dec. 15, 1890.
Joanna Patten, of Provo, Utah Co., President,
and Hannah Lapish of American Fork Vice
Pres., were present and made spirited addresses.
	A reorganization was effected with 99
members. The following officers were elected,—
Pres., Mary Ann Webb, Chairman Ex. Com-
mittee, Kate Allred, Sec'y., Sarah T. Evans,
Ass't. Sec'y. Emma J. Taylor. Ex. Com.
Martha Brown, Eliza Trane, Orinda Allred,
Mary Ann Sorenson, Mary M. Gaddie,
Josephine Brown, Mary A. Standring, Sarah
B. Olmstead, Sarah C. Taylor.
		The first meeting under the new organiza-
tion was held Jan. 5, 1891. Speeches were
made by Kate Allred, Mary M. Gaddie, and
Pres. Webb. The Ex. Com. sang "The Star
Spangled Banner." The following address was
then read by Mary A. Standring.


ARE SALOON-KEEPERS AND DRUNKARDS GOOD
				CHRISTIANS?

	This question may seem rather a strange one
and in the negative a broad assertion to make,
but from my standpoint and reasoning I be-
lieve I can prove, invariably, NAY. I might
say without one exception saloon keepers and
drunkards are not good Christians. Now if
I were to ask either of these individuals,
"Are you a good Christian?" would not their
answer be, "Yes, I believe I am?" And should
I say to them, "Do you believe in doing unto
others as you would that they should do to
you, as taught by Christ, He whom all good
Christians certainly believe in, who set such
good and noble examples that all might
pattern after Him if they would?" "Oh yes,"
they will say, "this doctrine will apply very
well to religious people, but hardly to us."
"We have a living to make, we need money,
we want to become rich;" and if they the
saloon-keepers, were to tell the truth they
would say, "we do not care at whose expense
it is or who has to suffer for it." I say shame
on those persons who so wilfully rob men of
their means and their manhood, and pander to
their vile tastes, who deprive wives of their
husband's support, and children of their
father's care, and make outcasts of those who
are near and dear to us. This is the work
of saloon-keepers, with a thousand more evils
attached, which are too odious to mention.
	And what shall I say of the drunkard? A
most despicable creature indeed, with all his
reasoning faculties lower than the brutes in
the field. A man whom God created in the
beginning to be a protector over women, to
love, honor, and cherish her. A being whom
God made in His own image, with a mind
capable of becoming the most intelligent of
all His creatures. One who should set a good
example—the head of his family—being kind,
virtuous, loving, and a good provider, for
the Bible says, "he that does not provide for
his family is worse than an infidel." And can
a drunkard do this when he is visiting these
vile grog shops, with their more vile associa-
tions and temptations, spending his money on
his own dear self, with never a thought of his
poor wife and innocent children who should
have his help and support. I say he cannot.
And is this all the harm he does? How many
homes have been made desolate that once were
happy, where wives had all confidence in
their husbands, and where all things seemed
in harmony with each other, and where love
and joy prevailed. But now, how different!
How the poor wives' hearts are made to ache,
their tender feelings lacerated, their love—a
thing to be spurned. How the dear children
are made to suffer for want of proper food
and clothing, and above all, for want of a
father in the true sense of the word. Oh what
a curse drink is, in this the 19th century,
leading to all the crimes in the catalogue.
And men take it because, forsooth, they have
not the stamina or moral courage to resist it—
they, the stronger sex, they who should set a
better example, but in the mean time leave
this for the poor, despised women, the
weaker sex, to do.
	Do I not know of cases which have come
under my own observation, where lovely,
refined, virtuous girls have married men who,
to all outward appearances were gentlemen,
and after a few months this hideous vice
would make its appearance, making their wives'
lives perfectly miserable, and in a few years
when beautiful children have begun to grow
around them, have made their homes so in-
tolerable and unhappy by their vicious habits,
bad debts and wanton inability to provide for
their families, that the poor wives have been
compelled to leave their husbands, taking
their children with them and doing anything
that lay in their power to gain an honest

[column 2]
living, perhaps blamed by people for taking
such a course, while the husband and father
goes on in his downward course, neither know-
ing nor caring what becomes of them—the
dear ones whom he had vowed to love and
cherish.
	I have seen these things and it has caused
my heart to ache for the misery and unhappi-
ness it has brought. This may seem strong
language to use, and perhaps there are
exceptions to every rule, but can we consistently
say that saloon-keepers and drunkards are
good Christians?


SIX BRIGHT WOMEN.

	Miss Helen Reed, whose Sargent prize
translation of an ode of Horace leads in the
new Scribner's, has decided not to remain in
her position as literary editor of the Adver-
tiser. Miss Reed is now writing a literary
article each week for the New York World.
She will shortly make a visit in Washington.
	Mrs. Isabella Barrows, who is best known
as a writer, associate editor of the Christian
Register, quick stenographer and accomplished
linguist, was thoroughly educated for a
physician in the best foreign schools as well as
at home. But her love of medicine was rather
theoretical than practical. Literary work is
her pleasure.
	Miss O'Duffy, a young woman about 20
years old, is one of the largest importers of and
dealers in wild animals in this country. She
is the daughter of a Dublin druggist and has
a natural liking for the business.
	Miss Edith Brown is one of the most
successful of the younger artists in Boston.
She is a designer for stained glass, and has
taken prizes in competition with some of the
famous workers of this department. She is
only 21 years of age.
	Mrs. Chauncey M. Depew pays the penalty
of being the wife of New York's most popular
dinner guest. It is a very rare event for him
to dine at his own table during the season,
except when he is host himself. "So rare"
Mrs. Depew is quoted as saying "that I have
to engage him for it."
					New York Sun.


Dr. Lyman Abbott, at a meeting in the
interest of the Indians, said: "The best way to
prepare the Indian for freedom and citizenship
is to give him responsibilities—to make him a
citizen." Cannot Dr. Lyman Abbott see that,
on the same principle, devolving political re-
sponsibilities upon women will be good for
women and good for the State? If a wild
Indian with a vote is safe and useful in the 
body politic, may not civilized woman be
trusted with a vote also?
	Gov. Thayer, of Nebraska, has gone insane
through the fatigue and excitement attendant
upon the contest over the election. If a
woman had lost her mind under such circum-
stances, or if any assembly of women had behaved
as the Legislatures of Nebraska and several
other States have lately been doing it would
have been quoted everywhere as a proof that
women are not fit for legislators. We shall not
say that of the men who have so misbehaved. But
it is evident that they need the civilizing
influence of the "help meet for them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			
﻿


SHADOW-LAND.

Tell me of shadow-land with its strange seeming,
	Its doubts and its mysteries looming afar,
In vision I see the pale light of its gleaming
	Like the glimmering ray from some beautiful star,
That allures me and points to a land undefined
A realm co-existent with that of the mind.

Oh, what is this longing, this yearning to know?
	This germ of an impulse we cannot restrain?
And why should it haunt me and follow me so,
	If the quest it awakens is fruitless and vain,
Nay, I feel that beyond the scope of my dreaming,
The star of intelligence onward is streaming.

I call in the night-time for strength from on high,
	To open the flood-gates of knowledge for me,
I wait and I listen, but only the sigh
	Of the murmuring winds, in quaint melody, 
Chant the song of my heart tho' its music is clear,
We've lived heretofore in some loftier sphere.

I know by the pain that I cannot express,
	By the feeling of loss deep down in my heart,
That there is a talisman we should possess,
	To open the gates of the mansions apart,
And show us the future, as well as the past,
Thro' rainbows of beauty, the shadows have cast.
									E. B. W.


SEVENTY.

		TO PRESIDENT ZINA D. YOUNG.

		Glad were the Heavenly hosts,
			O'er tidings borne above:
		Softly the good news spread,
			Wafted on breath of love;
		Their sister, on the earth,
			In sorrow and in woe,
		Had borne a Baby Girl,
			Seventy years ago.

		Angels rejoice to-day,
			Their songs are glad and free;
		They praise Jehovah's name,
			And, sisters, shall not we?
		Yea, praise the loving grace,
			Which through all changes vast,
		Hath led and kept that babe,
			Till Seventy years have past.

		Dear Zina ! Zion's own,
			Can we essay to bring,
		A fitting tribute now,
			While angels o'er thee sing?
		Who'll tell what thou hast been,
			Or mention what thou art,
		To Zion's faithful ones,
			The earnest, Pure in Heart?

		What sorrows thou hast soothed,
			In birth, in life, in death,
		By thy sweet words of love,
			And thy prayer's holy breath.
		No tongue nor pen can tell,
			The works thou'st nobly done;
		Long live, to bless us still,
			Beloved and honored one,
										LULA.
anuary 31st, 1891.

Dear Aunt Zina:
	Mother, Levi and the children all join me
n tenderest, truest love, and sincere prayers
for you to-day.
	May you live yet many, many years to do
good in Israel.
	Please accept this very small token of love,
and my warm thanks for the invitation so
kindly extended by your daughter Phoebe, for
me to be with you this afternoon. It is a
source of deep regret to me that I cannot
meet with you and all the loved ones,
who will rejoice with you this evening; but
"Duty is duty," and connot be set aside.
		Yours faithfully,
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


PRACTICAL POLITICAL STUDY.

	A Political Club was organized in Farming-
ton, Nov. 24, 1890, with J. F. Miller, a rising
young politician, as president; the members
being composed of both sexes. They meet as
a Legislative Assembly and as a House of
Representatives. They frame bills and
pass laws as systematically and earnestly as
though the fate of the Territory or nation de-
pended on their labors.
	A committee, appointed by the Speaker, on
Woman Suffrage, consisting of Lucy Clark,
Althalia M. Steed, Charles C. Miller, reported
the following bill, which, after an animated
discussion for three evenings, passed the Legis-
lature on its third reading by a vote of 26 to
22. The minority objected only to the clause
in the bill granting to women the right to hold
office. (The bill has not been sent to the
Governor yet.)
	"Be it enacted by the Governor and Legisla-
tive Assembly of Utah: That it shall be lawful
for women to vote at any and every election
held in the Territory of Utah, and their votes
shall be counted as valid and given effect.
And that they shall be entitled to hold any
office to which they may be elected."
	Lucy A. Clark, chairman of the committee
on Woman Suffrage, in presenting the bill,
said: Mr. Speaker, Members of the Legislature,
and Ladies and Gentlemen present: It is with
profound gratitude that we thank you for the
courtesy extended to us, the ladies who were
by special invitation from our honored presi-
dent, solicited to attend and take part in these
political deliberations. We consider that they
are educational and, therefore, accept of the
invitation, and trust that the moments we
spend here may be moments of pleasure and
profit. It is with pleasure that we present to
this honorable body of intelligent lawmakers
a bill asking that all political rights and privil-
eges may be guaranteed to women. We trust
that this honorable body will exhibit the same
degree of justice exhibited at the State Con-
stitutional Convention in Wyoming, when an
act, conferring equal rights upon all citizens,
passed the convention without an opposing
vote, and therefore became a commendable
plank in the platform, whereby they were ad-
mitted into the glorious union of States. The
Honorable Mr. Warren, Governor of Wyoming,
in his speech to the women, said: “Ladies, you
have builded well in the past, which is a suffic-
ient guarantee that your future actions will be
commendable.” It was ably proclaimed by the
champion of human rights, C. W. Penrose, that
if we would have a great race of men, we must
educate the mothers in politics, as well as other
branches, and as they had to pay taxes they
should have a voice in political affairs.
	Through a misguided and fanatical jealousy,
a board of political tricksters succeeded in
depriving the women of Utah of the suffrage,
after having intelligently and successfully exer-
cised the right for seventeen years. This un-
just measure was unsuccessfully opposed by
many intelligent men, and the leading women
suffragists of the nation.
	Some prejudice is being removed, and the
barriers that have stood in the path of woman's
progression so long are being obliterated one
by one. Their abilities are beginning to be
better appreciated by some. In twenty-four
of the forty-six States and Territories in the
Union, women exercise the suffrage on some
points. In Montana, twelve of the eighteen
county superintendents of schools are women.
Women have been placed upon the committee
of arrangements for the World's Fair, to be
held at Chicago in 1893, the highest position
of responsibility ever placed upon woman in
America.
	There is to be a pavilion constructed in hon-

[column 2]
or of Queen Isabella of Spain, whom we can
proudly and appropriately call the mother of
America, who, after Columbus had spent ten
years of toil and hardship, pleading with the
crowned heads of Europe for assistance to car-
ry out his plans, came to his relief and fitted
him out with ships and money, without which
he could not have made the discovery of this
renowned and glorious country. A lady archi-
tect, Miss Minerva Parker, has drawn the
plans for the pavilion to be erected in honor of
this renowned lady, and they have been ac-
cepted by the committee.
	Hamilton Wilcox, New York, said: “States-
men! politicians! editors! behold our move-
ment’s strength! Be wise in time; hasten,
while yet you may, to join the hosts who
struggle for the right!"
	We sincerely trust that there is not one gen-
tleman in this beautiful town of Farmington,
within the borders of this enlightened and
progressive Territory, or within the borders of
these United States, who could say to the Afri-
can slave, “step upon the platform with me,
share the emoluments of office with me,” and
at the same time say to his sainted mother,
his devoted wife, his beloved sister, or his angel
daughter, “remain below; live, breathe, and
pay taxes, but you shall have no voice in say-
ing who shall handle those taxes.”
	That all prejudice, fear and selfishness may
be ground to powder in the mill of human
progress, and that our bill may become a law,
we earnestly pray.				L. A. C.


THE IDEAL HOME.

	The ideal home is an exception rather than
the rule. The possessors of such a haven of
rest are worth a treasure “where neither moth
nor rust doth corrupt, nor thieves break
through and steal.”
	The ideal home may be in the house of a
Vanderbilt, adorned with costly paintings and
statuary; or it may be in a little cabin, frescoed
with whitewashed walls, and morning glories
twining over the door.
	In either home the sweetest music is the
ring of merry voices. The most precious
pictures are the healthy, ruddy cheeks of 
children. The costliest bric-a-brac are finger
pats upon the window-pane. Father and
mother find their greatest joys and sorrows,
their highest hopes and ambitions centered
within its walls.
	They mingle and work in the world, but
home, their home is their heart's delight. In
it each member seeks and finds sympathy,love,
and protection. 
	The man is the shield that wards and pro-
tects; the woman is the guiding star whose
light fades only with death.
	Self-sacrifice, confidence and understanding
exists in the ideal home, cach member's de-
sires, pleasures and capabilities are considered.
	Every one has a distinct, indissoluble
personality that cannot be shaken off, but two
or more leaves, though unlike, may blend into
one harmonious whole. 
					CLARA SELLECK.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Thought is the lightning of the soul.
	The highest exercise of charity is charity
toward the uncharitable.—Buckminster.
	Constant activity in endeavoring to make
others happy is one of the surest ways of
making ourselves so.—Emerson.
	It is a species of agreeable servitude to be
under an obligation to those we esteem.—
Queen Christine.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	 FEBRUARX 15, 1891.


MORMON WIVES AND MOTHERS.

	The following extracts are from The Answer,
published in Detroit, Michigan, a very ably edited
journal devoted to literary cultivation. The
article referred to is entitled "Salt Lake
Snatches" and has been written by Mrs. Mary
Grant Major, who is spending the Winter in this
City. The lady is very pleasing and amiable, and
we cannot believe would wish to make any mis-
representation, but when she affirms in her letter
to the Answer, that "all that is sweet and sacred
and beautiful withered out of the home, etc., all
except mother," we must in justice to the "Mor-
mon" women whom we represent through our
paper, qualify this saying of hers.

	"One would think that a man with six wives
would be apt to have his head so turned with
flattery that his bump of self-esteem would be
visibly swollen. Nothing is farther from the
truth. One meek, little Gentile wife, with her
lifetime of admiration and loving trust in her hus-
band's wonderful abilities, can do more toward
turning a fellow's head than all the plural wives
in Christendom.

	"Talk of strong-minded females and "the lady
bachelors of America," there does not live so
self-contained and coldly independent a creature
as a Mormon plural wife. Nor do they hesitate
to speak in terms of unmeasured contempt of wo-
men who make an unreserved surrender of thought
to their husbands—that surrender of thought that
comes from a mutual and happy confidence.
	A plural wife does not calculate that her hus-
band shall take a very prominent part in her life
or plans. There are sanctuaries into which he
is never admitted, or if admitted, it is not long
until he is thrust out and the key turned on him
forever; a husband is a necessary evil, nothing
more. If you are simple enough to ask a plural
wife if she does not miss her husband, she will
tell you in very plain terms that she does not
hanker after his society in the least. Thus,

	The mills of the gods grind slowly;
		But they grind exceeding small.

	"But toward her children the plural wife shows
unstinted love and devotion. The Mormon son's
remarks concerning "father" are extremely lim-
ited, but his mother is the subject of frequent
and loving mention. You see, the children could
never be sure that papa would be home at tea
time, so it wasn't much use depending on him.
"Father" might be on a mission, but mother was
always ready to supply the needs of childish
hearts.
	So, again, the Mormon father is a cipher in the
polygamous household, in spite of all the trash

[column 2]
that has been written about patriarchs, and such
like.
	"All that was sweet and sacred and beautiful
withered out of the home touched by polygamy,
all—except "mother."

	The home she speaks of is the home which the
Edmunds' law has destroyed. In the homes of
plural wives formerly where the father
could in other days meet with his family from
time to time and be recognized by the wife and
children as husband and father, there can be no
father, now because the law has dealt with these
households by its most positive methods. There-
fore though the father is not "a cipher," as she
says, he cannot be in the true sense of the word
"the patriarch" with his large family around him,
as was the case previous to the enactment and
enforcement of the laws which forbid such asso-
ciation. Mrs. Major says "If you are simple
enough to ask a plural wife, if she does not miss her
husband, she will tell you in very plain terms that
she does not hanker after his society in the least."
Who Mrs. Major has for authority on this subject
we cannot say, but some of us who are in posses-
sion of facts are prepared to refute this
assertion, and to say there are no women on the
earth anywhere that have more love or reverence,
for the husband (to whom they are united by the
most solemn covenants not only for time but for
all eternity), than these plural wives: some of
these wives of whom she speaks so coldly are
hiding under this cold placid exterior broken
hearts, not because of the practise of plural
marriage, but because of the cruel separations
caused by this same law, spoken of heretofore.
Some have gone down to the grave lonely and
sorrowing. Others we grant are making the best
of the situation, and do not sit bemoaning their
unhappy fate, but cheerfully perform the duties of
father and mother both to the best of their ability.
	That many "Mormon" women are strong-
minded is true, that they are self-contained and
independent, is perhaps also true of some of them,
but there are as many different dispositions and
temperaments among women in the "Mormon"
Church as elsewhere.
	"Mormon" women are bearing the heavy
burdens brought upon them by "the strong arm of
the law" bravely. They are submitting to the
conditions the government has imposed upon
them heroically, but they are not accepting, nor
are they likely to, the shelter of the Industrial
Home—such protection would be most humiliat-
ing. The women of the world however bright
and intelligent they may be are not competent
judges of "Mormon" women. They have a solace
and a hope in the religion they have embraced
that "the world knows not of," this is what sup-
ports them under trials, and in the midst of
difficulties, keeping them from sinking into settled
melancholy or despair.
	The mother makes the home, the world over,
and if plural wives are better qualified to guard
the interests of the home, and hold the hearts of
the children than others, then they are a step in
advance, and how did it come about, except
through the cultivation of those higher qualities
of the head and heart that lift women to a
broader plane, where she is not totally dependent,
but is able to stand alone, if need be. True love
makes women strong not weak, and the strongest
minded women are capable of the deepest and
most ardent love, just as the strongest and bravest
men are the most tender and lovable.


[column 1]
	THREE SCORE AND TEN.
		1821.-1891.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

A few out of the multitude of friends of (Aunt

[column 2]
Zina) as she is lovingly called, assembled at the 
residence of Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dougall, on 
Saturday, January, 31st, 1891, to celebrate the 
seventieth birthday of that honored lady and 
mother in Israel.
	The sisters many of them gathered about 4
p.m. in Sister Dougall's elegant parlors and 
greeted with congratulations and good wishes the
venerable lady, who on that day attained the age
of three score and ten years. Mrs. Young was 
dressed in black silk with dainty lace at the neck
and sleeves, and wore a cap of soft black lace.
Her complexion was as bright as that of a young
woman, and there is scarcely a sign of gray
among the soft brown hair, which she still wears 
in the old style combed plain and put behind her 
ears in a little curl with side combs. 
One rather pretty feature of the party was the 
souvenirs which had been prepared for the occa-
sion; handsome double cards painted in flowers
and miniature scenes, with an original verse in-
side, and tied at the corner with a bow of white
ribbon. 
	Dear Friends and kindred who're assembled here,
		I greet you lovingly, this day of days;
	Congratulate me on my seventieth year,
		And give our Heavenly Father all the praise,
	Rejoice with me that life has been so sweet.
		And all its joys and blessings so complete.

	These little remembrances of the day were 
handed round by Sister Young on a silver tray,
each of the ladies selected the one she liked best,
wearing it as a badge, the remainder of the 
evening.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily served to 
the guests and later on in the evening there was 
music and singing; Bishop Whitney sang some
old-fashioned songs which delighted the company
very much indeed, and added greatly to the en-
tertainment, Mrs. Hattie H. Young rendered some 
exquisite instrumental music in the very best
style, (she is a fine performer on the piano) and 
young Mr. Dougall, son of the host and hostess,
also gave a few choice selections that were well
executed. Music adds greatly to the enjoyment
of such an occasion; in fact an evening party is
hardly complete without it.
	A poem composed by Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee, and which we give here in full, was read,
and also a prose article in honor of Sister Zina's
beautiful life-work, composed and read by Susa
Y. Gates. Sister Young then gave an impromptu
address of welcome and appreciation for the
honor bestowed by her kindred and friends, and 
expressed herself as unworthy of such an ova-
tion.
	Apostle F. D. Richards in a few well-timed re-
marks, referred to the noble work done by Sister
Zina and also Sister Eliza with whom she had 
been many years associated, and whom she suc-
ceeded in the office of President of the Relief 
Society of the Church. His speech was rich in 
praise of these eminent ladies and others who
have rendered them valuable assistance, and in 
fact to all the women of Zion, who have been 
faithful in the Society.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon addressed the com-
pany briefly, commending the efforts of the wo-
men of Zion, and contrasting the present circum-
stances and surroundings of this people with the 
hardships and privations many had endured in 
the past; said prosperity would increase with the 
Saints in these valleys, and also referred to the
great future when we shall have passed into the 
exaltation prepared for the faithful. His remarks
were very comforting to those who have endured
much and made great sacrifices for the Gospel.
	About eleven o'clock the company dispersed
having spent a charming evening socially, one 
long to be remembered by all present.
	The 31st of January is also the birthday of Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Young's First Counselor


in the Relief Society, Mrs. Richards however is
somewhat younger; she arrived from Ogden on a
late train in time to participate in the evening’s
enjoyment, though her birthday was celebrated
appropriately at home with her own family and
relatives, some of whom came a long distance to
express their love and good feelings.
	The EXPONENT adds most sincere congratula-
tions, and the wish that these honored mothers
in Israel may live yet many years to carry on the
work established by the pioneer women of Zion,
many of whom have passed away,leaving a noble
example for those to follow, who are today en-
gaged in the uplifting of humanity, through the
organization of the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MOTHER IN ZION.

A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE TO OUR HONORED FRIEND
		AND SISTER, ZINA YOUNG.

The sweet name of Mother (the Universe o'er)
	Is honor'd by thousands, devoted and true;
But th' mothers of Zion, are yet at the fore—
	Are specially noble and capable too.

Since the message of God was by Joseph declared,
	"The women of Mormondom," faithful have been,
Persecution and sorrow, they bravely have shared—
	And felt the full force of the enemy's spleen.

What self-abnegation, what courage and trust,
	What loyalty too, have these mothers displayed.
Devotion to Truth by a recompense just,
	Is the ladder that reaches the loftiest grade.

And time shall refute all the epithets vile—
	Applied to the worthy, by tongue or by pen—
True earnest convictions, untarnish'd by guile—
	Will sooner or later be honored, we ken.

While waiting for Justice, we scorn to be sad,
	'Tis best to be happy as long as we may—
The children of Zion are cheerful and glad
	In spite of teh burthen and heat of the day,

We've need to be just to each other, at least,
	Whatever is due, we must gladly concede,
And thus we have met at this sociable feast,
	To honor Aunt Zina, a mother indeed.

May Providence kindly permit you to see
	Many happy returns of this jubilant day,
May your friends and your blessings yet multiplied be:
	And Faith, Love, and Truth, still illumine your way.

A noble example you truly have set,
	Have shown what a mother in Zion can do,
We trust that for years you may counsel us yet,
	And witness the triumph of Righteousness too.

Oh Mothers of Zion, true heroines blest!
	Your praise in the future shall fitly be sung;
And th' records shall show as a type of the best—
	The time honor'd name of our own Zina Young.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


THE BABY.

	What a vast expanse of unfolded possibilities is
contained within that newly-fledged atom of
humanity, the baby! The arrival of it is an event
whose importance is not one whit reduced be-
cause of its familiarity; each and every occur-
rence possesses a significance which neither fre-
quency can abate nor changing scenes obliterate.
A new being takes its place among those who
hold sway upon the earth, another star appears
in the firmament of mortality, one more creature
comes within our sphere without jostling any of
the others, setting another aside or displacing the
smallest portion of our social system. Sweetest
of all animate existence, degraded is the soul, de-
based the mind, or debauched the habits of him
who does not extend to you a glad greeting and
recognize that in his better and truer self he has
one more subject claiming, and worthy to claim,
his respect, his confidence, his protection if need
be!


We love the baby and at all times we bid it a
hearty welcome. With its hue of pinks and car-
nations and roses, its eyes bespeaking the tender-
ness just brought from a shore we cannot recall
even in dreams, its voice so plaintive as to defy
rudeness, and its whole presence so like the em-
bodiment and eternal fitness of things superani-
mate—the angels themselves—how purifying is
its presence and how sacred the influence which
its presence implies!
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and for-
bid them not."
							The Standard.
	Ogden, Jan. 25.


[Column 1]
CASTLE ROCK VALLEY.

Mrs. Mary Gray:
	Dear Sister:—I failed to write your Christmas
letter this time but will try and make amends on
this the first day of that mysterious, anxiously
waited for 1891.
	I wish I could describe my writing room to
you, will try but cannot do it justice, I am seated
on a large chair-shaped rock in one of a hundred
lovely little glens, up here in the tops of the
Sierra Madres, name familiar since my school
days, but I then little thought I would ever climb
its rocky sides and view its wild deep gulches, its
lovely cliffs, its stately evergreen trees and shrubs.
	Well perhaps you would like to know how I
happen to be perched here on a rock in the tops
of the mountains at ten o’clock in the morning,
on the first day of the new year,it is a frosty morn-
ing but the sun shines down warmly in the nook
where I am and it is quite comfortable, although
the girls at the house declared I would freeze if
I came up here to write.
	Well our old time friends who reside here came
to Juarez to spend Christmas and I came back
with them for a visit. We left Juarez on the morn-
ing of the 27th,drove down the Verde river a mile
to the mill, then across the valley towards the
mountain. I am afraid to give any of the points
of the compass for fear my West should prove to
be East and my North, South,as I have not been
able to locate the sun since I left Mesa. It is
twelve miles from the town to the foot of the
mountain, where we stopped for dinner and to
rest and feed the horses before starting up the
mountain. The valley looked very pretty with
the river winding through it, with the trees along
its banks clothed in their winter robes of red
green, yellow and brown. The entire valley is
covered with waving grass, which must be lovely
when green; it is very pretty now; looks like a
light brown carpet with dark green spots (Juni-
per trees) scattered here and there. We passed
through the first settlement our people made in
this valley, now deserted, as it proved to be on
the wrong land and they had to move farther up
the river. Many of the old chimneys, some of
the rock houses and the Liberty Pole are still
standing; a shadow of sadness crept over me as
we passed by three lone graves, on the side of a
low hill or mound beyond the town site, I know
not the names of the sleepers, but they were those
of our faith and thereby linked to me.
	After a short rest and a camp-fire dinner, we
each got a stout stick and started on our four
mile walk, or rather climb; to the left as we start
up are some of the loveliest cliffs I ever saw,
covered with green and gray moss, and shapes
that look like the hand of man as well as nature
had fashioned them; deep down on one side a
mountain stream,now but a rivulet, at other times
a torrent, wound its way, now leaping over high
rocks then rippling along over level grassy places,
I cannot describe all the beauties on our journey.
You have been in the canons and on the mountains
of Utah and know how impossible it is to describe
these works of Nature’s God.
[Column 2]
	A light drizzling rain made the walking a little
unpleasant, but pioneers don’t mind such trifles
much. After our first walk we rode most of the
way to our night camp in the park, a lovely place,
we had to drive after dark, and sometime before
we reached camp the bright rays of a huge pine
fire came out like a friend to meet us, made by a
brother who passed us on the way and reached
camp first. Soon after we had supper the moon
arose and gave to the surrounding scenery, the
tall pine trees and still water, a wierd ghost-like
appearance, which brought Rip Van Winkle into
my dreams that night.
	I must pass over the rest of the journey, for I
want to speak of some caves and cliffs we visited
the third day after we reached our destination.
the cliffs about a mile from the house the girls
have named Castle Rocks from their resemblance
to old ruined castles. There are several very high
grand looking arches and pillars in a variety of
forms and shapes; two we named Punch and Judy
from their resemblance to those noted personages;
others look like large urns and vases. We ex-
amined several of the caves which all show signs
of having been inhabited,the roof being black with
smoke, and broken pottery is scattered around;
one of them the girls has named the store,
another the meeting house, in this a gallery runs
all round the cave and a large pillar stands at the
front which the boys call the preacher. We could
not visit them all as it took too much climbing, so
after gathering some pretty ferns, mosses, and
pine cones we climbed and tumbled down again
to the lower regions, and reached home with
good appetites for dinner.
	A few days after we visited cave valley, where
the caves are larger; as we approach them the
immense rocks and cliffs and chasms look grand
beyond description, they strike one with wonder,
awe and admiration, and we are led to ask
when were they formed and whose the hands
that fashioned them. Surely amid such scenes the
unbeliever must cease to say there is no God.
	One large cave has been divided by thick walls
into a number of small rooms, and the plastered
walls are covered with pictures and hieroglyphics
as fresh and bright as if made but recently, yet
the oldest inhabitants know nothing of their origin
From this cave a deep trail was worn into the solid
rock that led down the river, at one side of the
cave a small stream of water was falling over
the rock, and had worn a basin in the rock below
Just inside the cave was an immense olla,used it is
supposed for storing grain, it is some fifteen feet
high, sloping from the centre to the top and
bottom; we found parts of several of them on a
smaller scale but this one was in perfect preserva-
tion.  In another large cave the brethren un-
covered a skeleton, which had been discovered
some time before near the entrance of the cave.
Under the rock which formed the floor was a hole
the skeleton had the appearance of having been
pushed hurriedly into it, the sight of it gave rise
to unpleasant feelings and conjectures. In fancy I
could see those poor creatures penned up in these
caves and dens in the rocks with the enemy out-
side and no doubt they perished by their weapons,
or the more slow and agonizing death,by famine.
	I shall remain here a few days longer,I have en-
joyed my visit very much.  Old friends and old
times have been spoken of round the bright pine fire
and when I return I hope I shall find my Christ-
mas letter from the “Old Home" awaiting me.
With a Happy New Year for all I will say adieu.
			Your loving sister,
							S. F. R.


R. S. 22ND, WARD.

	On Tuesday, Jan. 13th, 1891, the sisters of the
Relief Society met for the first time in an upper
room, in the new Meeting House of the 22nd,


Ward. We are going to furnish it and hold our
Society meetings there at present. There was a
good attendance. There has been a branch of
the Society organized in North Salt Lake and we
have four sisters there who have been appointed
teachers to act under the direction, of the Presi-
dent of the 22nd Ward. They expressed them-
selves as being very thankful for the privilege of
having meetings there and a Sunday School. Our
Bishop said Sunday that he and one of his Coun-
selors had visited the Sunday School that day and
they were holding it in two rooms in a private house
and it did not begin to hold them all. He told
them to look out a suitable piece of ground for a
school house.
	There is also quite a settlement west of 3rd
North St., Counselor Jeremy of the R. S. and one
of the teachers visited there, and invited the
sisters to our meeting, they attend regularly, and
some of them are appointed teachers to visit there
among the people.
	The people have been very energetic in helping
to erect the new Meeting house in this ward; and
feel very thankful we have a place to worship
God in. Our Society is in a prosperous condition.
				ADELAIDE RIDGES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		ITEMS FROM COLORADO.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time of writing
a brief account of our little settlement among
the hills of South Western Colorado, for the
benefit of the readers of the EXPONENT, but
like every thing that can be, in this busy world
it has been left till “to-morrow.” But now,
one who has the authority says I must write
you an account of a little social affair which
took place on the 14th of this month, in honor
of Sister Mary Roberts, who until recently has
held the position of Pres. of our Relief Society.
As Sister Roberts contemplates moving away
shortly, it was decided that the sisters should
turn out in force and surprise her. Accord-
ingly, on the day appointed, the most of the
sisters, with babies and baskets, and some of
the brethren met at one of the stores, and soon
after several sleigh loads were wending their
way westward towards the home of Sister
Roberts, where on our arrival we met with a
very cordial welcome. As it was nearly noon the
first thing in order was dinner,and while it was
being prepared the company were entertained
by one of the brethren who had “been there,”
singing a song that was composed in the“pen,”
which awakened many reflections. After the
repast was over and the tables cleared away,
the company were called to order and the fol-
lowing address, written by Sister Louie White,
was read:

	Dear Sisters:—In attempting to perform my
part in the programme, I am keenly sensible
of my inability to acquit myself in as credit-
able a manner as I would like; but, as Latter-
day Saints, we are all aware that unless our
efforts, whether in speaking or in writing, are
dictated by a higher power than that of our
own, they will prove unsatisfactory and un-
profitable, therefore, I trust that although the
few lines which I shall write may be simple
and unadorned with the flowers of rhetoric
that the spirit which they breathe may be one
worthy to find an echo in the heart of each
one present. We have met to-day, dear sister,
to show you that honor and respect which we
feel is yours by right, in consideration of your
labors in our midst, not only in connection
with our Relief Society but also in the Sabbath
School, where you have been an efficient and
diligent worker, in seeking to instil in the
minds of those under your jurisdiction the
principles of life and salvation. Although at
times your spirit and body have been weighed
down, by reason of the trials and difficulties
[Column 2]
through which you have been called to pass,
you have always manifested a desire to per-
form your duties as a Latter-day Saint.
	We desire to assure you of our love and
esteem, and to express our appreciation of the
many pleasant and profitable hours that we
have spent in your society, and of the wise
counsel you have given us, especialy that por-
tion of it which admonished us to perform
faithfully the duties which we owe to our
children. Your earnest remarks on this sub-
ject have ever touched a responsive chord in
our hearts, for we realize that the most im-
portant duty devolving upon us is the bringing
forth and training of the souls of men and
women who are destined to fill responsible
positions in this great Latter-day Church, and
we trust that the Lord will give us strength
to carry out the instructions we have received,
that we may become more worthy and per-
fect mothers. We know that men and nations
are not given to rising higher than the source
from whence they spring, hence the necessity
of perfecting ourselves as mothers, that the
level to which our children may rise shall be
an exalted one. We feel that you have set us
a worthy example in the care you have
taken of the intelligent spirits that our Father
has placed in your keeping, and we trust that
you may be rewarded by having your child-
ren rise up and call you blessed, and that you
may experience the truest joy that a mother
can know,that of seeing her children grow up
valiant for the truth, honored and beloved by
the good and noble. As you journey on
through life, and encounter the trials which
beset its pathway, we pray that you may have
strength given you as your day, that you may
pass cheerfully under the rod, and feel at all
times to acknowledge the over-ruling provi-
dence of an all-wise Father; never shrinking
from the trials through which he may call
you to go, but continually seeking for strength
to bear them, realizing that they are blessings
in disguise, as each one cheerfully borne in-
creases our faith and proves our integrity.
You have been endowed with talents which, if
wisely used, will be a source of joy and satis-
faction to yourself and of encouragement to
others. Wherever you may go you will find
opportunities for the exercise of those talents
in assisting to advance the cause of truth, as
the field is wide, and the laborers few.
	You have our kindest wishes for yourself
and family, and wherever your lot may be cast
we trust that you may be blessed both
spiritually and temporally. And we also trust
that when you leave us you may carry with
you many pleasant memories of friends found
and associations formed while here. And
while we are assembled together at this time,
may the spirit which we manifest, and the
words which we speak, be of such a nature
that in years to come we shall be able to look
back to this day, as one of the bright spots in
our lives; and although in the future we may
walk in separate paths, may each one’s path be
a branch of that road which leads to life
eternal; and when we have reached the
terminus may we have the privilege of renew-
ing the associations begun in this life, with
spirits and bodies unfettered by the weaknesses
pertaining to mortality, free to enjoy to the
fullest extent each others society throughout
the boundless ages of eternity.”

	Sister Roberts then responded by expressing
her appreciation of the sentiments just read,
and of the honor shown her by those present.
Said the years spent here were among the
happiest of her life, and in leaving she would
leave behind many kind friends who would
always be affectionately remembered. Felt to
give the glory to her Heavenly Father for
whatever good she might have accomplished
while here.
	Appropriate remarks were then made by
[Column 3] 
Pres. Wm. Halls and Brother Roberts, after
which the time was spent in singing, dancing
and social chat, till about sundown, when
after a general hand-shaking, we took our de-
parture, feeling all the happier for having
shown a desire to make others happy. 
	We have about forty-five fine families here,
and are blessed with peace and a goodly degree
of prosperity. This is a very good grain country
but too high an altitude for fruit, except the
hardier kinds, and we have very little of that
as yet, so that even dried fruit is deemed quite
a luxury, especialy as we have to pay twenty-
five cents a pound for it. We have to pay
rather a high price for all our supplies, but, as
we will soon have a railroad running through
our town, we are in hopes that the prices will
be lower in the near future. Our associations
are all in fairly good running order, consider-
ing our scattered condition, the majority have
to travel two or three miles in order to attend 
meetings, which is quite a disadvantage in the
Winter time. Our educational facilities are
very good. Our people are in the minority,
but we are treated very kindly by our out-
side friends. There are three ministers of the
Methodist persuasion here, two of them have
attended our meetings two or three times and
preached for our benefit, but I haven’t heard
of their making any converts, although one of
the outsiders here promised them quite a large
sum of money when they should convert a
“Mormon.”
	Success to the EXPONENT, “May it live long
and prosper,” is the sincere wish of one who
watches anxiously for its coming and eagerly
scans its pages for tidings of old-time friends,
for,
		"My heart keeps wandering home 
	To all the dear ones there,"
and I don’t suppose it will ever for-swear its
allegiance to the old home and its associations,
but when I take into consideration the fact
that Utah of to day isn’t Utah of the past, I
console myself with the thought that perhaps,
after all, I am happier here, striving in my
humble way to assist in building up one of the
Stakes of Zion,than I would be there under the
changed state of affairs.
							L. M. W. 
	Mancos, Colo., Jan. 20,1891.


R. S. REPORTS

		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of 
Maricopa Stake, held Dec. 18th, 1890. After
the usual exercises Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy
spoke upon charity and gave good counsel.
	Pres. M.A. Hakes represented the Mesa
Ward; a faithful few were always ready and
willing to do what they could. Pres. Lizzie
Macdonald gave almost the same report of
the Lehi Ward.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman of the Alma Ward,
said we need spiritual as well as temporal food
Gave much the same report as the other wards.
Pres. Susan Savage, of the Papago Ward, said
the native sisters seemed more energetic and
prompt than the white sisters, so far as they
understood.
	Nephi Ward was breifly reported by Bro.
Noah Brimhall, as he was the only member
present.
	Counselor H. C. Rogers, Bro. Charles H.
Allen, Sister Sarah Ann Robson, and Sarah
Phelps, each spoke a short time when we
adjourned, feeling that the time had been well
spent, and all had been repaid for coming to-
gether. Singing and then the benediction
closed the meeting.
						F. E. ROBSON, Sec.

			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the


[Column 1]

Malad Stake of Zion met at Samaria, Nov.
16th, 1890. On the stand were Pres. O. C.
Hoskins, Coun. William H. Gibbs, several
of the brethren of the High Council, and
Presidents and Counselors of Relief Society
etc. Meeting called by Pres. Mary D. Davis
of Samaria, singing "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Prayer was offered by Pres.
O. C. Hoskins; singing "Thy will be done."
Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few opening
remarks. The minutes of last conference were
read and approved.
	Pres. Mary D. Davis reported the Samaria
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
said the sisters are united and striving to live
their religion and doing all the good in their
power.
	Pres. Eliza Chivers gave in a favorable
report of the Cherry Creek Society.
	Pres. Rosa Howell reported Muddy Creek
Society, said they held their meetings regularly,
when they met they had a time of rejoicing
and enjoyed a portion of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Pres. Annie Sawyer, of Malad City, said the
Society over which she presided was in a
prosperous condition and the sisters alive to
their duties.
	Coun. Mary Stewart exhorted the sisters to
attend to their meetings: spoke of the great
faith and power given to those that are
humble and striving to do the will of the
Lord.
	Pres. O. C. Hoskins felt happy to hear
the testimonies of the sisters. Spoke of the
progress the Church is making; said it has cost
the best blood of the nation, besides thousands
of dollars, to bring us to the place we are
standing in to day. Spoke of the condition of
our day schools and the necessity of teaching
our children in the ways of the Lord.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt thankful for the
good instructions givin in this conference,
hoped the sisters would feel that they had
been blessed under the instructions that had
been given, and that we would try to put in
practice that which we had heard; said as
mothers we need information on a great many
subjects especially those things pertaining to
our religion. Spoke of obedience; touched on
many important subjects pertaining to our
holy religion.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs said, without the aid
and assistance of God we are not able to edify
such an enlightened people as the Latter-day
Saints; felt proud to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies, exhorted us to live humble and
our Father in heaven would bless us.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short time.
	Bro. Samuel Davis, of Samaria, made a few
remarks. The Choir sang an anthem; and the
benediction was pronounced by Bro. David
Hall.
	ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.

BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society of the Box Elder Stake
held its Conference in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, Dec. 9, 1890. Counselor Mary
Wright presiding. Singing, "Come let us
anew." Prayer by Bishop Jenson. Singing
"O, Glory of all the Saints." Roll called,
minutes of September Conference read and
approved. Pres. Olivia Widerborg apologized
for being late, also stated that we dispense with
the verbal reports as the time would be short
and as Pres. Zina D. H. Young was with us,
we would all wish to hear her.
	Sister Young said, "We are engaged in a
great and glorious work, I am proud of the
sisters here, your faces speak well for you. O,
my sisters, be careful of your little ones, teach
them to walk in the path of our Savior;
attend your meetings. Relief Society members
make better mothers, have more faith in God,
and do more good in sickness, both by ad-
ministering and nursing; always impress the

[Column 2]

young people with faith to call on the Elders
in sickness. Sisters call upon those who are
weak in faith, and cheer them, take comfort to
the poor and lonely ones." Spoke upon pride,
and quoted some of the sayings of Pres. Young
and of Pres. Woodruff. Dwelt upon union at
home, the love, honor and purity thereof and
its natural results upon the youth. "Let us
love God and one another, the Lord holds the
destinies of our children in His hands."
Spoke upon the Deseret Hospital, the need
there was of help from the Relief Society in
all its branches and also referred to many more
great and glorious things too numerous to re-
cord, in her mild and motherly manner, ask
ing God's greater blessings on the sisters
throughout Zion.
	Presidents H. Hunsaker, Honeyville,
Hannah Harper, Lake Side, Mary Watkins,
4th Ward, Brigham City, reported their re-
spective branches, and Sister Watkins also
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph. Bishop Jenson made some
remarks encouraging to the sisters.
	Sister Young spoke of a store in Salt Lake
City that had been started by the sisters, where
dry goods are sold, and dressmaking has
already been established; it is also intended
having millinery and hair dressing connected
with the store.
	Pres. 1st Ward, Brigham City, Susanna P.
Booth made a report of the branch over which
she presides.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young, explained why Sisters
Jane S. Richards, and E. B. Wells did not ac-
company her, that both had sickness in their
family. She then spoke of laboring for the dead,
and cheering the poor; prayed God to bless all
assembled there.
	Pres. Widerborg stated there would be a
meeting in the afternoon at 2 p. m., to organize
a Woman's Suffrage Association for Box Elder
County, made some closing remarks, and
said, "We do not want to forget to give our
heartfelt thanks to Sister Young for her visit
to us."
		ANNIE WIXOM, Assistant Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Nov, 29th,
1890. Sister Mary John presiding, assisted by
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer; minutes of former conference
read and approved. Sister E. G. Cluff, was
pleased to see so many out this morning, it
was some time since she had met with us be-
fore. She had enjoyed her mission to Josepha
much, felt that we would enjoy ourselves
wherever we are if we are in the line of our
duty, and have the Spirit of God with us;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and re-
newed diligence in all good works; those that
have the approval of God are looking for
great events to happen, &c.
	Sister Marilla Daniels followed with good
instructions to one and all, was happy to meet
with us where we can enjoy the spirit of God.
We are blessed in having a chance to improve
our talents, let us strengthen and help each
other. Spoke of the death of Sister Johnson,
wife of Bishop J. P. R. Johnson, and Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the 1st Ward of
Provo, said she was a faithful sister and we
miss her, but she has fought the good fight,
and her works will follow her. Great events
are nigh and we shall need strength from the
Lord to enable us to stand, and that we may
prove faithful was her prayer. A number of the
Presidents gave verbal reports of the society
over which they presided and also bore strong
and faithful testimonies to the truth of this
work, and their desires to hold out faithful.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt happy to be with
us again; spoke of the events that had trans-
pired since our last Conference, and of the

[Column 3]

mission of herself and daughter to the States,
to attend a gathering of her kindred and rela-
tives; of the narrow escape they had from
death in a railroad accident, and of her prayers
to God to save them. Said I have proved that
God is with us and can save his children by
his Almighty power. Spoke of the testimony
that she bore to her father's house, also upon
the Word of Wisdom and various other subjects,
said there are crowns awaiting the faithful and
I prayed that we may be among the chosen
ones, &c. After a few remarks from Sister
Sorenson, and singing, conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Benediction by Sister Patten.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m, meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Bishop
Johnson was present. After a short interval
the Presidency of the Stake honored us with
their presence. Sister John felt pleased but
was sorry that we could not have the sisters
from the city as we had expected; knew this
was the work of God; exhorted the sisters to
live near and follow the teaching of our Savior
that we may not go astray. Spoke in the in-
terest of the Woman's Suffrage Association,
wished the sisters to attend the meetings, &c.
	Sister Bringhurst, from Springville gave the
sisters much good counsel and advice; also gave
a report of the society in that place as being
energetic, and the members faithful and trying
to do their duty in every way, &c.
	Sister Eliza Taylor represented the Third
Ward as being united and wiling to do all
they were called upon to do. President Smoot
said he was pleased to be with us, regarded
this society as of great worth in the Church. In
his travels through Utah County, had heard
good reports of the society and of its efficiency
in helping and providing for the poor; but
there is yet room for improvement; be on the
alert; look after the poor, comfort them, buoy
them up, speak words of comfort to them, that
is your mission. We are in a crisis religiously
and politically. We should be awake. We are
on the threshold of the greatest events that
have ever transpired, the clouds are heavy,
and daily the whole nation are arrayed against
us, a handful of people, who are trying to keep
the commandments of God. Let us look after
our children, a great responsibility rests on the
mothers in this thing; and may God help you
to be wise in all things is my prayer.
	Pres. John felt to endorse what had been
said by Pres. Smoot. There was never a time
when woman's mission was more important
than at the present, in curbing pride and infi-
delity; your mission is one of love, sympathy
and comfort and may God bless you in your
endeavors is my prayer.
	Pres. H. H. Cluff said it was gratifying
to feel the Spirit of this Gospel, it is the work
of God. These organizations are a power
among the people and wherever the Relief
Society is active the people are active. We
are on the verge of a change, we have heard
of a change for the Saints from under the
wicked and ungodly, this is the change. We are
told in the Doctrine and Covenants that when
Christ comes there will be only one half of the
people ready for Him, on the watch and pre-
pared, we know not the day nor the hour of
His coming, but may we all be faithful, and the
testimony continue with us, is my prayer.
Sister John felt that we had been blest in com-
ing together and asked the Lord to bless us
all, said, after singing, we will adjourn our
Conference for three months. Benediction by
Brother West.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			
﻿


So far is it from being true that men are
naturally equal that no two people can be
half an hour together but one shall acquire
an evident superiority over the other.—
Johnson.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


W. S. A. OF PAYSON.

	The re-organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association, of Payson, took place at Payson,
Jan. 15th, 1891. The meeting convened at
the Meeting House at the call of the vice-
president. After devotional exercises, Mrs.
Millie Stark, vice-president, stated that the
object of the meeting was that of re-organiza-
tion,  and visitors were present from Provo,
who came over for that purpose, viz: Vice-
President Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs.
Horrocks, accompanied by Isaac Bullock, Sen.
	The by-laws of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association were read by Mrs. E. Bullock, and
also the platform of the National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, which were
adopted. The following organization was then
effected by unanimous vote.
	Millie Stark, president; Hannah Wride,
vice-president; Minnie Fairbanks, secretary;
Lillie Fairbanks, assistant secretary; Jeanette
Tanner, treasurer; Ann Pickering, B. J.
Simons, Elizabeth Lant, Isabella Finleyson,
Mary A. Hardy, Ida Coombs, executive
committee, with Mrs. Pickering, chairman.
	Mrs. E. Bullock then addressed the meeting
in a very spirited manner. Said, previously
we had only a vice-president in our organiza-
tions, but she was now in favor of a president
and more complete organization, and for this
reason a president had been appointed with
more aids and committees. She believed
women should occupy a different position in
future to what, they occupy at the present day.
She referred to a speech of Mrs. E. B.Wells at
the W.S.A.: “We have known our weakness
for years now let us know our strength." Women
were destined to be equal to men. We should
assert our rights, learn what is going
on iu the world, keep posted in political
movements; we then are better mothers and
wives.
	Mr. Charles Ellis, the lecturer, eulogised the
ladies in their heroism, in pioneering the way
to this wild west, and wished them success in
endeavoring to elevate the sex, and educate
themselves in their rights and privileges, and
regain their franchise.
	Mr. Isaac Bullock made encouraging re-
marks, “Women rule the destiny of men” and
are wise counselors. They succeed in almost
everything.
	Mrs. Horrocks, of Provo, spoke of the fees
of the initiation, which is an annual fee for the
expenses of the association, of fifty cents from
each member. Mrs. E. Bullock has been ap-
pointed to go as a delegate to Washinton next
month. Women are expected to work side
by side with men, and we are not slaves but
free to act for ourselves in all matters of in-
telligence and not be trodden under foot or
tyrannized over by men.
	Mrs. M. Stark apologized and said that
through her sickness, during her past year’s,
business in the W. S. A. had been neglected.
On account of the storm to-day, we had not a
larger gathering in the interest of our associa-
tion. She encouraged all members to be
active.
	Remarks were also made by Mr. J. S.
Tanner and D. Lant which were to the point
and instructive. Adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Bishop J. S. Tanner.
			M. A. HARDY, Sec'y, protem.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Lucile Banks succeeds her father as
editor of the Index, long a leading paper of
Columbus, Miss.
	Mabel W. Moore, M. D., has been elected
a vice-president of the Montgomery County
(Pa.) Medical Society.
	The Princess of Wales has given orders

[column 2]
that nothing need be submitted for her inspec-
tion, or that of her daughters, in which birds
are used as trimming.
	E. L. Halleck, superintendent of instruction
in Oklahoma, writes to the Woman's Tribune
that the bill to give women full suffrage lacked
only two or three votes of carrying in the
Territorial Legislature, and that women "can
now vote in municipal elections and on school
matters."
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has recently
addressed large audiences on woman suffrage
at Pawnee and Bockford Ill., Washington
Iowa, and Stevens Point Wis., Feb. 12, she
will address the Illinois Legislature on the
pending municipal suffrage bill, and a little
later will address the Indiana Legislature on
municipal suffrage and the "age of consent"
bills.
	Mrs. Anna Richardson, formerly a member
of the Bible-class at the Young Women's
Christian Association, of Boston, has
established a school for colored youth at
Marshalville, Ga., where every effort is being
made to better their condition. The King's
Daughters circles of the Association have
lately contributed $100 toward the support of
the school.
	The Woman's National Press Association
of Washington voted at its last meeting to join
the National Council of Women. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln was appointed delegate, and Mrs. M.
S. Lockwood alternate, and Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. Crandall, and Mrs.  Mooney were ap-
pointed a committee to arrange for a reception
to the National Council in February.
	Gov. Russell did not own "real estate to the
value of £1,000," as required by the constitu-
tion of this State, until a few days before his
election, when his wife transferred to him
enough of her land to enable him legally to
hold the office for which he was a candidate;
but at the same time no amount of land or
money upon which she is taxed can enable
Mrs. Russell even to vote for the governor or
for any other State officer. This seems some-
how amiss.—Ex.
	The Legislatures of many States convene
this week. The friends of equal rights every-
where should try to secure municipal suffrage
for women wherever practicable. More and
more, men see the grievous injustice of with-
holding the ballot from women, who now have
opportunities for the best education, and ample
means of acquiring information upon public
questions. There is reason to hope for some
gain in this direction during the coming year,
and for the amelioration of some of the hard
legal conditions that rest upon women. At 
least, let us ask, in the hope that we shallre-
ceive.—Ex.
	George Bancroft, the historian, is dead.
He passed away at the age of ninety, full of
years and honors. Tributes sent by the
sovereigns of Europe, on the announcement of
his death, were added to many similar ones
here. The following fitting and appreciative
words were spoken of him by A. R. Spofford,
the Librarian of Congress, between whom
and Mr. Bancroft the warmest personal
friendship existed for many years: "His is the
most beautiful old age I have ever seen; calm,
peaceful, cultured, surrounded by friends, and
admired and revered by a whole nation, the
drawing to a close of his life is as grand and
beautiful and peaceful as the gradual fall of
night on a mountain peak."
								Ex.


In the elevated order of ideas the life of
man is glory; the life of woman is love.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
[column 1]
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.

[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp. City Hall, Salt Lake City

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash. House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMFS Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


Uy..... v


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
