[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Way to Castleton]

The Way To Peace Alice B. Castleton Relief Society General Board Member
I CANNOT remember a time when I have not had implicit faith in the First Presidency of the Church as divinely guided leaders. I have always looked upon these men with profound respect, believing them to be the Lord's anointed, chosen by inspiration to lead His people and to direct the affairs of His Church. So, in view of this fact, I believe in these times of uncertainty and sorrow, when Satan seems rampant, threatening to destroy the peace of the world, when wickedness, greed, and lust for power have entered the hearts of men, and when millions of people have forgotten that "God's in his heaven" and are relying upon the wisdom of their godless leaders, my heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father that the members of the Relief Society can implicitly rely upon the advice and counsel given from time to time by these inspired men. We should take comfort in the knowledge that these leaders will not lead us astray. During these perilous times we should, as Relief Society women, accept the counsel and advice given us regarding conservation along all lines. The Savior's admonition, "Come follow me," should be our motto day by day in order that the work of the Lord may go forward. The growth of the Church depends in a large measure upon our individual efforts, and we must not fail. My great concern at the present time is for those who do not heed the counsel given by those in authority. These people need our loving interest and sympathy. We should pray always that there will be a spiritual awakening in their souls. We should make every effort to build up their faith, to sustain them in right living, and to inspire them to keep the commandments of God, so that when the ills and calamities of the world face them they will be strong and well fortified. Those who keep the commandments of the Lord are the partakers of that peace and contentment which the Savior promised when He said: "My peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14: 27). My earnest prayer is that we, as members of the Relief Society, will consecrate our lives to the tasks which confront us at the present time, and that we may have an abiding faith that God's purposes are being fulfilled; that the dawning of a brighter day lies before us; that right will triumph throughout the world; that there will be a spiritual awakening not only among the people in the Church, but among people of all nations, that they will turn to the Prince of Peace for divine solace and comfort.