[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Broadcast]
We are pleased, however, that plans are going forward for the erection of the beautiful campanile, or bell tower, on Temple Square in Salt Lake City to house the famous Nauvoo Temple bell. Relief Society women everywhere are making contributions to assist in the erection of this graceful memorial Relief Society's centennial gift to the Church. It is with great pleasure that I express my sincere and unbounded gratitude and appreciation for the achievement of our goal of 100,000 members on our one hundredth birthday. Not only have we achieved this goal, but we have exceeded it by 15,000. The General Board is grateful for the efforts which have been put forth by officers and workers throughout the Society to bring about this wonderful result. We welcome our 40,000 new members with all our heart and with open arms. We know they are a great asset to us, that they bring new interests and new enthusiasm, and that they will receive the same enjoyment and benefits experienced by unnumbered thousands of women who have been affiliated with the organization during its hundred years.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL RADIO BROADCAST
DURING the past year our members have been looking back over the history of the Relief Society. The files of the General Board and of the Historian's Office, and the records of stakes and wards have been searched for information.
There has probably never been a time before in the history of the organization when so much research work has been done by so many people and we have not sought in vain. Our minds have been enlightened, our knowledge enriched, our hearts have rejoiced, and our faith has been strengthened by what we have learned. The record of the Society and its members is one of self-sacrifice, of high ideals, of devotion to lofty principles, and of faith, and a testimony of the Gospel of the Master. We have become better acquainted with the activities in Nauvoo, where almost every type of welfare work was carried on the caring for the sick and needy, the comforting of the sorrowing, and the sustaining of one another in times of persecution and tragedy. We have learned of the work of the women of Nauvoo as they became the women of the plains, many of them walking much of the way to the West; of their courage, faith, and valor in the face of illness, lack of sufficient food and warm clothing, and danger from hostile Indians and wild animals. We have learned of their work as pioneers in the West where side by side with men they helped to blaze trails and lay the foundation for an empire; where they helped to build their own homes, plant and gather crops, fight crickets and kill snakes; where they wove and spun the cloth they used and, withal, reared large families. In the morning and evening these pioneer families, who relied on their God for aid, knelt together and uttered prayers of faith, thanksgiving, and devotion, asking for protection and that their simple and most needed wants be satisfied. We have been interested in the various phases of work they took up as circumstances became easier, such as the training of nurses and midwives, the manufacture of silk, the establishment of women's cooperative stores, the building of Relief Society halls for their meetings and of granaries for storing wheat, of their activities in movements for suffrage, for temperance and peace; and in later years the fostering of public health work, the development and advancement of their educational and social welfare programs.
Missionary work has also had a warm place in their hearts.
They have not only supported the work and contributed to it as mothers and sisters of missionaries, but have performed missions themselves. As wives of mission presidents they have presided over the women's work in all the missions of the Church.
Before the war began, there were thirty-six Relief Society women presiding over the women's work in the thirty-six missions of the Church, located all around the world. In our research, we have traced the cooperative work of Relief Society with national and international organizations in the interest of women and humanity. In the 1880's, at the invitation of the great suffrage leaders of the nation, Relief Society women participated in conventions in large eastern cities.
They reached their destination traveling in comfortable railway cars across the very plains which they had earlier trod by foot. In 1888, the Society was represented at the convention in Washington, D. C., which organized both the National and International Councils of Women; and it became a charter member of the National Council.
During the fifty-four years' existence of these Councils, the organization has been represented at the more than twenty biennial meetings held in various cities of the United States, and at all of the twelve meetings of the International Council which have been held in various countries. Not only has the Society sent delegates to these great gatherings of women, but its members have held important offices in the National Council. In 1942, as we begin a new Relief Society century, in a year considered by many as the most critical ever known, we find the world full of tumult and trouble. It is evident that people everywhere will have to make sacrifices sacrifices the like and extent of which many have never dreamed, and that life will be different from what it has ever been before. In these trying times Relief Society women will not be found wanting, and they will never doubt but that finally knowledge and peace will triumph over ignorance and war.
