[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Lula Greene Richards]

Lula Greene Richards
THE Relief Society General Board extends greetings to Lula Greene Richards, pioneer editor of the Woman's Exponent, on her ninety-third birthday, which will occur on April 28. Many years have passed since Lula Greene Richards was appointed by President Brigham Young to be editor of the Woman's Exponent. In fulfilling this responsible assignment, Sister Richards was encouraged by such leaders as Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and others whose names are so familiar to Relief Society women. Throughout the years her literary contributions have enriched Relief Society publications and contributed to the reading enjoyment of Relief Society women. Today on her ninety-third birthday she is privileged to enjoy with us, in health, our Relief Society centennial. What a picture she must have of personalities and events in the onward march of our organization! What satisfaction must be hers in reviewing her contribution to the Society! Sister Richards' testimony of the Gospel and her devotion to the Relief Society cause are as strong today as in the days of her youth. The General Board wishes her a happy birthday and a fullness of the Father's blessings every day.
115,000 Members of Relief Society
Completed tabulations of Relief Society annual reports for 1941 revealed a total of 115,008 members 2,000 more than the number shown by the earlier preliminary tabulation when reports from some of the faraway stakes and missions had not been received. This final tabulation necessarily still includes figures for 1940 rather than for 1941 with respect to a few of the faraway Relief Societies whose reports have not been received because of delays and interruptions in shipping due to the war. The tabulations show that the phenomenal increase of 40,000 new members during the four-year membership campaign just closed was shared by Relief Societies in stakes and missions throughout the Church. The achievement in reaching and exceeding the goal of 100,000 members by 1942 was recognized in an editorial in the Relief Society Magazine for March, page 197. The May issue will contain pictographs and other data showing the membership growth for each stake and mission during the four-year period of the membership campaign, and also during the final year 1941 when nearly 25,000 of the total increase of 40,000 members were enrolled.