[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Prevention Jr]
the  good  deeds  of  his  church;  it  is  a 
way  of  manifesting  appreciation  for 
the  bounties  that  life  has  bestowed. 
If  such  people,  lacking  in  specific 
religious  teachings  concerning  this 
principle,  have  voluntarily  observed 
the  law  of  tithing,  certainly  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  have  had  specific 
revelations  concerning  this  law 
should  have  many  more  reasons  for 
observing  it. 
Having  been  asked  to  explain  the 
motives    that    prompt    tithe-paying 
among  our  people,  the  writer  under- 
took to  determine  these  by  making 
a  survey  among  a  group  of  typical 
young  Latter-day  Saints.  The  fol- 
lowing reasons  were  most  frequenth 
given  for  paying  tithing. 
It  is  a  commandment  of  the  Lord. 
It  makes  possible  the  maintenance  of  the 
Church's  missionary  system. 
It  supports  the  temples  and  their  saving 
work  for  the  living  and  the  dead. 
It  provides  means  for  the  hospitaliza- 
tion of  Church  members  and  for  other 
charitable  activities  of  the  Church. 
It  assists  in  the  erection  of  houses  of 
worship  in  our  wards  and  stakes. 
It  enables  one  to  experience  the  joy  of 
giving. 
It  helps  to  overcome  selfishness. 
It  is  a  sign  of  loyalty  to  the  Church. 
It  is  training  for  a  higher  form  of  eco- 
nomic cooperation  that  must  ultimately 
be  lived. 
It  teaches  one  to  develop  a  sense  of  hu- 
manitarianism. 
It  gives  a  sense  of  satisfaction  through 
the  feeling  of  being  a  participant  in  the 
activities  of  the  Church. 
It  makes  one  "feel  better." 
A  further  inquiry  with  the  same 
group  of  people,  however,  indicated 
that  these  ideas  were  partly  in  the 
realm  of  theory,  for  many  of  the  per- 
sons expressing  the  ideas  were  not 
earning  money  and  hence  paid  no 
tithing;  others  had  once  paid  tithing, 
but  as  they  had  become  older  and 
their  financial  burdens  had  become 
greater,  they  had  paid  only  a  part  or 
no  tithing;  others,  however,  had 
been  tithepayers  for  years,  in  spite  of 
incfeased  obligations  and  periods  of 
financial  stress.  Upon  investigation, 
it  appeared  that  among    those    for 
Page  257

258  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL,  1942 
whom  tithe-paying  was  a  fixed  pol-  and  a  half  for  my  own,  and  let  me 
icy  two  factors  hiad  been  the  primary  collect  fifty  cents  for  Him,  and  the 
motivating  forces  in  their  continued  least  that  I  can  do  is  to  be  honest 
faithfulness  to  the  principle.    These  with  Him." 
were:  first,  it  was  a  commandment  In  these  words  he  expressed  an 
of  the  Lord;  second,  there  was  a  attitude  that  is  worth  cultivating, 
mind-set  toward  tithing  which  made  Many  people  in  the  Church  today 
its  payment  easy.  Some  Latter-day  bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  payment 
Saints  go  through  life  paying  their  of  tithing  is  an  easy  matter;  they  are 
just  dues  to  the  Lord  because  it  is  a  never  tempted  to  use  as  their  own 
commandment.  Some  of  these  do  the  tithe  portion  of  their  income, 
it  willingly,  others  perhaps  grudg-  because  they  were  taught  from  their 
ingly,  and  a  few  others  perhaps  be-  earliest  childhood  that  it  was  the 
cause  they  are  afraid  to  be  disobedi-  property  of  the  Lord,  and  simple 
ent.  There  are  others,  however,  who  rules  of  honesty  required  its  pay- 
have  developed  something  more  ment.  Not  considering  it  their  own, 
than  mere  obedience  to  a  command;  they  practice  thrift  in  their  expend- 
they  have  developed  a  psychological  itures  and  base  their  budget  on  the 
attitude  toward  tithe-paying  that  nine  tenths  rather  than  the  total  in- 
makes  the  payment  easy  and  gives  come. 
them  the  satisfaction  of  joyous  giv-  As  the  two  brothers,  referred  to  in 
ing.  the  illustration  above,  grew  to  man- 
An  illustration,  taken  from  the  hood,  they  secured  employment, 
lives  of  two  Church  members,  may  and  each  secured  a  ten-dollar  salary 
illustrate  these  contrasting  attitudes,  increase  at  approximately  the  same 
Many  years  ago  two  small  boys  who  time.  The  elder  grudgingly  com- 
had  been  taught  the  principle  of  plained,  ''It  isn't  really  a  ten-dollar 
tithing  at  home,  attended  the  annual  raise;  it's  really  only  a  raise  of  nine 
tithing  settlement  in  their  ward.  The  dollars,  as  I'll  have  to  pay  a  dollar 
older  of  the  two  paid  seventy-five  of  it  as  tithing."  The  younger  one 
cents,  and  the  bishop  commented  commented  happily,  ''Now  I  can 
upon  the  sacrifice  he  was  making  pay  a  dollar  more  tithing  than  I  have 
considering  the  candy  or  other  lux-  been  paying,  and  that  means  that  I 
uries  a  boy  of  his  age  might  desire  have  nine  dollars  more  for  my  own 
to  buy  with  such  a  sum.  The  youth-  use."  Years  passed  and  the  financial 
ful  payer  agreed  with  the  bishop—  obligations  of  these  two  became 
it  was  a  sacrifice  to  him.  The  younger  greater.  The  elder  of  the  two  was 
of  the  two  then  pushed  a  half  dollar  tempted  to  use  the  Lord's  tenth  to 
across  the  table  as  his  offering,  arid  secure  things  he  desired  but  could 
the  bishop  again  commented  on  the  not  seem  to  afford;  finally  he  ceased 
sacrifice  it  represented.  The  boy  paying  tithing  in  order  to  acquire 
replied,  with  a  wisdom  that  belied  these  things.  The  younger  of  the 
his  years,  'Tm  not  giving  up  any-  two,  although  his  income  was  slight- 
thing.  It  doesn't  belong  to  me.  I  ly  less  and  his  obligations  slightly 
never  think  that  I  have  to  give  the  more  than  his  older  brother's,  is  still 
Lord  part  of  what  I  get.  I  think,  a  faithful  tithepayer.  Through  the 
the  Lord  has  given  me  four  dollars  practice  of  economy  and  the  use  of

PERSONAL  ATTITUDE  TOWARD  TITHING  259 
wisdom,  which  he  testifies  the  Lord  of  tithing  to  young  people    might 
gives  him  in  compensation  for  his  profit  by  this  example.     Some  per- 
honest  dealings  with  Him,  he  is  able  sons  will  always  be  willing  to  pay  tith- 
to  maintain  a  standard    of    living  ing  because  it  is  a  commandment  of 
equally  as  high  as  that  of  his  brother  the  Lord.    Others  will  fail  to  do  so 
who  "can't  afford  to  pay  tithing."  when  their  tithed  income  fails  to 
Tithe-paying  has  become  a  habit  purchase  the  things  they  desire.  But 
and  is  a  joyous  experience  for  the  many  more  will  be  willing  to  perse- 
one,  because  he  has  the  proper  men-  vere  in  this  obligation  if  they  can 
tal  attitude  toward  it.  He  sees  the  be  led  to  see  this  doctrine  from  the 
nine  tenths  with  which  the  Lord  standpoint  that  they  merely  hold 
has  blessed  him,  rather  than  the  one  stewardship  over  the  Lord's  tenth, 
tenth  that  he  returns  to  the  Lord.  The  great  many  members  who  arc 
He  considers  himself  simply  as  a  listed  on  the  annual  reports  of  the 
trustee  for  a  portion  of  what  comes  Church  as  partial  or  non-tithepayers 
to  him,  and  he  is  not  tempted  to  is  proof  that  they  do  not  have  the 
use  it  because  he  believes  that  he  right  mental  attitude  toward  this 
must  be  honest  with  his  Master.  It  commandment.  When  our  youth 
is  neither  a  struggle  nor  a  hardship  can  be  taught  to  view  their  earnings 
to  meet  this  requirement;  rather,  it  with  an  attitude  of  gratefulness  that 
is  a  joy.  they  have  been  blessed  with  means 
Mothers  and  fathers  in  the  home,  which  they  can  tithe,  they  will  grow 
and  the  teachers  in  the  Priesthood  to  maturity  as  happy  and  faithful 
quorums  and  auxiliaries  having  to  do  stewards  over  the  tenth  that  should 
with  the  teaching  of  the  principle  be  given  for  the  Lord's  work. 
  ^   
REFLECTIONS 
Joseph  Quinney,  ]i. 
/^NE  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  golden 
hours  as  they  spread  themselves  upon  the  barren  wastes  of  time.  These 
hours  were  mine;  but  time  passed  by,  and  I  awakened  this  morning  ashamed 
and  bent,  not  that  God  would  take  away,  but  that  I  had  lost  the  things 
that  could  and  should  have  been. 
One  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  tribu- 
taries which  build  faith  flowing  ever  and  anon  into  life's  great  stream.  I 
omitted  to  plant  in  fertile  soil  those  seeds  that  grow  into  golden  deeds, 
and  now  I  must  atone  for  those  lost  hours  and  build  again  my  faith  in  him 
who  loves  and  gives. 
One  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  agonies 
of  misspent  time.  Thank  God  that  vision  closed,  and  the  glories  of  a 
newborn  day  are  mine.  They  give  me  hope;  aye,  strength  to  ht  a  man;  to 
gather  up  the  broken  bits  of  life  and  build  a  deeper  faitli  in  those  rich 
promises  that  come  from  God  to  use  for  him  and  my  fellow  men.
