Gospel Restoration - Part of the Eternal Plan Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve his presence before the world was formed. The earth was created as a home for us. Adam and Eve were sent here first, and through them we, the rest of the human race, were destined to be born. The purpose of our coming into mortality was to obtain flesh and bone bodies, so essential to our progress, and to be placed here in a probationary life in which we could prove our worthiness to come back into our Father's presence, for it was his desire that we develop and become like unto him. In order to have Adam and Eve and their children clearly understand their relationship to the Almighty, it was necessary that God appear to them and talk with them face to face, so that they could see him, hear him, and know him. They were commanded to worship him, and to make their worship intelligent, they were permitted to see and talk with him. It is interesting to note that God even appeared to the first murderer, Cain, and talked with him face to face after his crime. Not even Cain and his children — banished as they were into the land of Nod — would have any excuse for not serving God, for the Lord did appear to and talk with Cain. 716 \ S children of God we lived in As the human race began to grow, Satan came among them, and sowed seeds of disbelief. He taught them to love darkness better than light, and as he did so an apostasy from the truth developed. Many fought against God. Always there was the faithful group, but many drifted away into error and sin. The apostasy developed so fast and so far that in the days of Enoch the Lord called him to bring the people back from their disobedience. So evil were they that they attempted to slay Enoch, but the Lord protected him. The Lord was determined to save his people if they would only listen to him But many of them, having fallen away so far, had lost their true knowledge of God. 'Therefore, that knowledge had to be restored once again, and so God appeared to and walked and talked with his servant Enoch. It was a new revelation of God in that day. It was another attempt of the Lord to call his people back to the way of truth. Angels were sent to help him as part of this new revelation of God in his day. Enoch told the people of this new appearance of the Lord. Said he: "I saw the Lord and he stood before my face, and he talked with GOSPEL RESTORATION me even as a man talketh one with another, face to face." As a result of his labors, a great conversion took place among the honest in heart, all of whom were gathered together into the city of Enoch and were called Zion, the pure in heart. But there were many who rebelled and continued in their apostasy. Enoch wept for them, and the heavens wept. When Enoch and his city were taken into heaven, only a few faithful were left remaining on the earth. The apostasy continued until the time of Noah. Again, the Lord attempted to call his people back, once again by a personal revelation of himself. Just as he had appeared to Adam, to Seth, to Cain, to Enoch, so he now appeared to Noah and walked and talked with him, in what was a new revelation of God for that day. Mankind could not have excuse, for God _ personally came to earth and made himself known. It was another attempt to stave off further apostasy, and to bring the people back to the knowledge of God. But the people still rebelled. The Lord gave them 120 years in which to repent, but they would not. Noah preached with power, but they resisted him. "There were giants in the earth in those days," and they sought Noah to take away his life, and the Lord warned that "My spirit shall not always strive with man." "And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed to my words; Believe and trepent of your sins and be baptized 717 in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." But the scripture says "they hearkened not," and Noah's "heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth." So great was the apostasy that "The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was cortupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth." So came the flood, and Noah and his family — eight souls — were saved, together with the living creatures they had taken with them into the ark. But the Lord was not to give up. He was ready to start a new dispensation on the earth with Noah and his family. To make certain that they understood the gospel, and knew God, the Lord appeared, and walked and talked with Noah, and gave him commandments. Again, the Lord was granting unto man a new revelation of himself as a means of convincing them of the truth of the gospel. But it was not long until sin again overcame much of the righteousness of Noah's family. As new generations came, they, too, drifted away; they, too, began to apostatize. This new apostasy continued to the days of Abraham, who, in speaking of his own family said, "My fathers having turned from their righteousness and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, un- 718 —