Sixty Years Ago nn Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" INTERESTING VISITS AND MEETINGS — Colonia Juarez, Mexico: Early Thursday morning, June 27, Brother Edward Eyring, home missionary, President Mary B. Eyring and Eunice S. Harris, in the interest of the Relief Society, and Caroline Eyring, first counselor in the Primary, left their homes in Colonia Juarez, to visit the colonies in the mountains. A pleasant journey of about eight miles brought us to the mouth of the canyon, where the change of scenery, combined with the cool atmosphere made the ascent of the mountain indeed pleasant.... We had a magnificent view of the beautiful valley 1520 feet below... And as far as the eye could see rolling hills interlaced with canyon gorges and covered with a forest of pine, oak, and juniper.... We continued our journey through the most sublime mountain scenery to Pacheco.... We met with the Relief Society, then continued our journey to Garcia... And met with the Relief Society.... Early Saturday morning we resumed our journey to Chuichupa, located in an open valley forty miles south of Garcia. On Sunday we met in a special meeting with the Relief Society and Primary.... — Mary B. Eyring UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: Still all the beautiful things have not been written, the world of thought opens wider and wider as we advance step by step and behold the wonders contained therein. Then, my comrades of that world, press on and on Come Inspiration, flame divine, My thoughts attune, thy fervor lend, Unveil the past, o'er the future shine, Ah! Memory come, be thou my friend.... — Lydia D. Alder A WORK OF ART: By courtesy of Miss Ada Patterson we have received the new book... Entitled "By the Stage Door."... There is a great deal of character study in the work, it is a book to make one think deeply. It might easily be called a psychological study.... The language is delicate and refined and one need not be afraid to trust the reading of it to an innocent, inexperienced girl, in fact, the book is good enough, in language and sentiment, and sufficiently beautiful in outward appearance to be placed on the drawing room table in any home, be it cottage or palatial mansion. — Book Review A WOMAN MISSIONARY — in the Society Islands — 1850: The king is a very friendly man, agreeable in conversation. Is pleased with the American elders because of their industrious habits. He prides himself in doing more work than any other native man. He is subject in his official capacity to the French Governor. On the 27th we attended the morning service in the House of Prayer. After the close Hoatan, our fatherly chief, addressed the people.... The sea abounds with luxuries, and the land teems with good things.... The north star we cannot see, the grand cross is in the firmament over us. To the same God we pray and invoke blessings... - — Mrs. Addison Pratt