Recipes From Calgary Stake Submitted by Virginia N. Myers President, Calgary Stake Relief Society T our Relief Society Convention in Calgary (Canada) Stake, we served a sherbet which was so much enjoyed, and which received so many compliments, that we thought the sisters throughout the Church might like to have the recipe. Also, here in Canada, our weddings and parties are not complete without dainty cakes and "squares," as they are called. Included here are several other choice recipes from our good Canadian cooks. Three-Fruit Sherbet 3 Cc. Sugar 1—4 oz. Bottle maraschino cherries, 3 lemons (juice of) quartered and drained 3 bananas, mashed 1 tall can evaporated milk (14/2 ounces) 1—4 oz. Can pineapple, crushed 1 c. Whipping cream milk to fill 4-quart freezer Mix all ingredients and freeze in a 4-quart freezer. Raspberry Squares Y ¢. Butter 4 tbsp. Raspberry jam 1 c. Flour Cover with topping as follows 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 C. Sugar Cream together and add: 1 tbsp. Butter 1 C8& 1 ¢gs 1 tbsp. Milk 2 c. Coconut Press batter in 8" x 8" pan and 1 tbsp. Vanilla spread with: Bake at 325° for 25 minutes. Cut into 1-inch squares. Pecan Rolls "2 |b. Butter 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Powdered sugar 2 c. Pecans 2 c. Sifted flour "2 tsp. Salt Mix in order given. Shape in fingers. Bake at 300° for 30 minutes. Pale in color when done. Roll in powdered sugar while hot. Will be Nut Smacks Yc. Sugar 1 c. Flour Y c. Butter 1 tsp. Baking powder Cream together and add: 1 tsp vanilla 2 egg yolks Press into 8" x 8" pan and cover with the following topping: 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 c. Chopped walnuts 1 c. Brown sugar Bake slowly at 325° for 30 minutes. RECIPES FROM CALGARY STAKE 745 Nanaimo Bars - First Part Cream 1% c. Shortening, add % c. Sugar and 1 egg Mix separately: 2 c. Crushed graham wafers Y, c. Chopped walnuts 5 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut Add to above and spread in pan. SECOND PART 2 tbsp. Custard powder ) "% c. Shortening (or vanilla pudding mix, not instant) 2 c. Icing (powdered) sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla (if powder is used) 3 tbsp. Cream Cream above mixture and spread on first part. IcING 1 tsp. Butter, or other shortening 4 squares chocolate, melted Mix and pour over above Mark in squares and store in refrigerator. Ome VIET CINC be| — A — 1 can sweetened condensed milk 1 tsp. Almond flavoring (5% ounces) 2 8-ounce packages fine coconut 2 C. Icing sugar Mix all together, tint a pale pink. Press into buttered loaf pan and chill in refrigerator. Then shape like wedding bells. Place a silver candy on top. May also be colored green and shaped as wreaths for Christmas. In Summer's Wake Eva Willes Wangsgaard I stand above exotic tropic bloom Begonias yield within their sun-flecked shade, The hose relinquishing a silver plume Of liquid life to burnish leafy jade. While all about petunias climb and spread High up the fence and over moistened roots. Bright garlanded in apples overhead, The Hopa crabtree molds its crimson fruit. Yet something indefinable repeats A thin familiar warning "'Autumn's near." And deep within me smoldering protests beat A sharp denial to the waning year. Each mellow moment caught in summer's wake Tempers my joy with its peculiar ache. N4, ELLE ER rr LLL LLLLL 777) " for Sa So a Christmas Adelle Ashby Cheery as Christmas itself are these tree-shaped place mats with matching napkins (Figure 1), and the gay, colorful shopping bag (Figure 2). Both are easy to sew and inexpensive, and they make a good pre-Christmas sewing project. The Christmas trees make your holiday table a joy to look at, and whether you use them as place mats, or march them along the tablecloth as center pieces, they are attractive. The shopping bag will add an extra bit of Christmas glamor and fun to your Christmas shopping, as well as being practical. The bag is much more attractive than a paper bag and will not fall apart or tear when out in the rain or snow. It is also handy and useful for carrying records and books, or sewing and knitting. Make one for everyone in the family, from grandmother to teenager. 141 748 For the place mats, you will need: 2 yards of broadcloth, or linen, emerald green. 17 yards of white sawtooth trim, or jumbo rickrack. To Make: 1. Make a triangular paper pattern for the tree, the base measuring 1614", the height 1434", and the sides 16". Cut six of these triangular trees from the fabric. 2. Mark where the horizontal trimming lines go on the tree, by placing the first line 21/4," from the tree point, then space the remaining lines 3" apart. 3. Cut six tree trunks from scraps, each 314," by 4". 4. Fold the trunk in half lengthwise. Seam the sides, leaving the top edge open. Turn to the night side and press. 5. Fold the lower edge of the tree 14," up to the right side and press. Center and stitch the unfinished edge of the trunk over this folded edge. 6. Now stitch a row of trim over this raw folded edge with two rows of stitching on the trim to hold it fast. 7. Stitch the rows of trim on the —