Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 4 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come with her family to their mining property in Montana, planning to oversee the assessment work which must be done to hold the property. In the mountain wilderness Marian meets Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent property, whose motives she mistrusts. ARIAN put the bucket of M water down. Her fingers were suddenly too weak to hold onto the handle. Jake picked it up and started towards the cabin with the long strides of a confident man. For a minute she could not follow him, then, knowing there was nothing else to do, she turned and made one foot go in front of the other. At the cabin door Jake stood waiting for her, looking at her, and she felt uncomfortable, like a schoolgirl caught by the football captain with her hair amiss. "Sure is a lot to be done around here," Jake told her, not seeming to notice her embarrassment, and yet at the same time enjoying it. "Yes, but Jim and I." "IT have a full crew at my mine this year. 'That gives me some spare time." Jake was a big man and now he was in the doorway. Marian could not get past to open the door. She had to stand there, 7150 not knowing what to do. She had felt this way once before, when she was in a play at school, and the leading boy wouldn't give her the right cues. "Maybe I could come and help out some each day. You would be surprised what a little paint and fixing can do to a place like this." "Yes, I suppose so, but we hadn't planned." "Oh, should I take this in?" he indicated the water bucket, and she knew he had timed his question to interrupt her objections. Jim looked up from the table where he had been working all morning, making lists and planning. At the sight of Jake, he got up and took the bucket. He didn't say anything. He just looked at his mother and then at Jake and set the bucket on the drainboard. "Howdy, son," Jake said, "I was just telling your mother how much there is to be done around here. Why, the work on the cabin alone would cost quite a bit, and take a lot of time, not to mention the work on that old worthless mine." "Yes, we know," Jim said, "we plan." "T bet if you were to add up all the cost of the improvements that need to be done around here, and OUT OF THE WILDERNESS the cost of the labor it would take, you would be going way in the hole each year. Now, I'd suggest you let me help you." "We don't need any help." Jim was suddenly like a young cil trying to protect what was his. "Now, wait a minute, son. There's no use to get all upset." Jake had a half-smile on his face. It was as though he were enjoying Jim's upset. "I only want to help you." "T told you we don't need any help." Jim's words were measured. "We can get along just fine." ARIAN could see that Jim was angered. "Just what is it that you want, Mr. Hadley?" she asked. Jake's grin disappeared at the unexpected firmness in Marian's voice. "Well, I thought you might consider selling out. I'm prepared to give you a good deal, and you'd be wise to accept." Marian thought of the leaky roof, the ugly black stove, Sue's frightened screams at the sight of a little animal. She thought of the bare floors and the old scrubboard. "Well, we hadn't thought about it, but maybe." "Mom! You wouldn't. You just wouldn't!"' "Don't decide just yet." Jake looked at Jim and then back at Marian. "I never did believe in hasty decisions. I'll come back in a week or two." Jake left then, and there was silence between mother and son. Jim stood at the doorway with bent shoulders and Marian sat down near the table. Then Jim said, "Mom, you really hate this place, don't you?" His 751 words were like something he didn't want to say but had to. "No, dear, I don't hate it, exactly," Marian spoke slowly. She wanted to tell him how she truly felt and didn't know how. "It's more that I just don't understand the cabin, the forest.... I'm just not at home here." "Mom, please don't sell. Keep it for... For when I grow up. I want to have it always. Please, Mom. You won't have to come back ever again. I'll take care of it from now on." "We'll see, son. Now, tell me what all this is." She picked up one of the papers he had been working on. "Dad told me that each year we have to do $150 worth of improvements for each claim we have. I am figuring out how much money I'm going to have to charge myself per hour to add up to the right amount." "Charge yourself?" "Yes, you see, I won't really collect any money. 'That's how Dad and I did before. You just estimate how much your time is worth. If you had to hire the help, that is " He stopped, not being able to find the words to explain. "T think I understand." Marian felt his need for understanding. "You are sort of making a bid on the job, but instead of hiring anyone, you do the work for yourself, is that it?" Jim looked relieved. "Yes, and I have to figure how long each job is going to take me to make it come to the nght amount." "What jobs are you planning to do, Jim?" "Tll have to dig a shallow ditch along the railway back into the mine 7152 so that the water can drain out. That's one of the things we've had to do each year, so I know how. Then [ll have to fill in all the chuck holes in the road that leads to the mine from the cabin. They are pretty bad this year. That will take quite awhile." "But, I don't see how digging along a track that no mine cars are going to go on, and filling in chuck holes on a road that no automobile will travel on, is going to accomplish anything,' Marian told him. "Mom," Jim began, then whatever he was going to say, he decided against it and began anew. "'Let's just say that it's sort of the rules. Anything you do to improve the mine, keeps your lease for you." His voice was patient, as though he were explaining something to a child. ARIAN looked at her halfgrown son in a new light. She could see that he knew what he must do, and just as she had let David make plans, she must now let Jim. It was a comfortable feeling, having an almost-grown son, and she smiled to herself as he went on telling her of the way he was going to haul dirt with the wheelbarrow to fill in the pit holes, and what a job it would be to cut down some small trees for replacing some of the badly rotted timber in the mine. He ended his explanation with a faraway look. "Someday I'll be able to go deep into the mine as far as Dad did, and make a lot more repairs. Maybe next year." "Jim, the mine isn't any good any more, is it?" "No ore has been taken out for a long time. Costs too much to —