VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 44 — "Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). 'Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 8, 1963 Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. LL of us differ considerably in the nature and in the amount of our physical possessions and in our abilities and talents. Yet, one precious possession in which we are all equal is the amount of time we have each day. Regardless of who Or where we are, each of us each day has twenty-four hours of time — no more nor no less. What we do each day with this package of time determines the nature and accomplishments of our lives. Benjamin Franklin once asked, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of." One of the most important lessons we can learn is to live each day as fully as possible without worrisome concern about what happened yesterday and what may happen tomorrow. Actually, we have only one day of life and that is today. Yesterday has been lived and tomorrow may come, but today is here and now! This significant thought is appropriately expressed in the well-known hymn of Evan Stephens "Today, While the Sun Shines." (See L. D. S. Hymns, page 215.) Today, while the sun shines, work with a will; Today, all your duties with patience fulfill; This does not mean, of course, that we should not learn from our experiences of the past nor that we should fail to plan for the future. It is wisdom both to learn and to plan. But how much we benefit from our experiences and how well we plan for tomorrow depend upon what we do today. Today is the fruit of yesterday and the key to tomorrow. Anna Brown Lindsay wisely said: "The most reckless spendthrift in the world is the one who squanders time. Money lost may be regained, houses and lands sold may be bought or built again. But what power can restore the moment that has passed, the day whose sun has set, the year that has been numbered with the ages gone? We are spending time well when we are paying it out to God, to buy the things he means our lives to own, whether he is putting before us a duty to be done, a friend to be won, a small service to be rendered, a child to be consoled, or a house to be set in order. There is time TIS 776 enough given us to do all that God means us to do each day and to do it gloriously; yet, there is no moment given us to throw away" (Linpsay, ANNA Brown: The Compact Treasury of Inspiration, pp. 176-177). One of the great truths which the Church teaches in respect to our time in this life is its importance, not only during this mortal existence, but also the significant role it plays as a fundamental part of eternity. 'Thoreau had a glimpse of this great truth when he said, "As if you could kill time without injuring eternity." The great Book of Mormon prophet Amulek had a clear understanding of the importance of effective utilization of our time in this life as part of eternity. He said, "'this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.... This day of life... Is given us to prepare for eternity" (Alma 34:32-33). If each of us would resolve each day to —