WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part IV) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, Objective: To show that decision-making is the heart of good management. Socio-drama will be the feature in this lesson. It is a dramatization which' gives the actors a chance to put themselves in the place of those facing a problem and allows them to feel, to behave, and to talk as they would were the problem their own. 'The audience has the advantage of seeing how different people act in various situations, of hearing what they would say, of reacting to the feelings expressed by the actors. Spontaneity and sincerity are the keynote. Actors are volunteers who are willing to try out how they would react in a given situation. Action and dialogue are unrehearsed. No lines are memorized. Each person plays her role, she says what she feels, and she acts as she feels the character would act under the circumstances. Neither scenery nor costumes are used. The leader describes the setting and the actors take the audience with them In imagination by pantomime and dialogue. The family problem to be acted out is making a decision about | whether Susan (the teenage daughter) should have money to buy a party dress and go on a date. After the cast of Relief Society sisters speaking as a father, mother, an eighteen-year-old son, a fifteen-yearold daughter, and a twelve-year-old son, has volunteered, the leader spends a few minutes with them to agree on the approach and solution to the problem. She then describes the setting to the audience and the play is on with each Relief Society deciding the outcome of the discussion. (In the interest of time, selection of participants and direction by class leader could be just prior to discussion period. (These participants should all be Relief Society sisters. ) A Latter-day Saint family is well organized to make decisions. 'The father, holding the Priesthood, the mother, whose responsibility is homemaking, and the children old enough to express ideas and opinions, form a decision-making team. Relatives or others living in the home may assist in making choices if requested to do so. Since decision-making is the heart of management, it is essential that great skill be developed in making wise choices. Training for decision-making begins in the cradle when a rattle is favored over a doll. As soon as the child knows the difference between 771 778 a penny and a nickel, he should be allowed to have a few pennies and nickels with which to make some choices. In the beginning, he will prefer an ice-cream cone today, rather than a toy at the end of the week. His span of interest is very short. By the time he is a scout, he should be able to look ahead in order to save money to buy his scout uniform instead of squandering his money on ice-cream cones. At an early age, he should be able to plan for some savings for his mission, instead of spending it all on clothing. And, later on, he will look forward to the training he needs for his lifetime work and grasp every opportunity to further that goal. He will not suffer from the impulse to buy any and everything he sees, but will be looking ahead to the time when he will be an owner of a home and the head of a household. In the same way, decisions are made about the use of time, the use of energy, and other resources. During the training period, there is a culling out of undesirable choices, and decisions become easier to make. Family members become more mature as they look into the future and make decisions today that will make a stronger tomorTOW. Training in decision-making pays off when small decisions can be made wisely by individual family members, and only major ones need be brought up for consideration by the family team. It is necessary to have an easy atmosphere for making decisions. 'They might be made around a table, where the facts of the case are brought out. There is —