SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 3 — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) Elder Ariel S. Ballit For Fourth Meeting, Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. [NX the preceding lesson, it was noted that divine law provides the direction by which man can develop his full talents, realize the purpose of his creation, and, at the same time, receive the fulness of joy in living. This combination can only be accomplished by man's LESSON DEPARTMENT exercise of his free agency. Choice, not force, is the important principle. President McKay says that, "Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man" (Improvement Era, , page 86). In the present lesson consideration is given to system and order in the design of the Lord as it refers to human welfare. God is exacting in his dealings with man. "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). God deals in truths that are unfailing. 'This is evident in the order of the universe and the regularity of the physical laws governing the earth and life upon it. "Mine House Is a House of Order' "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law..?" (D & C 132:8-11). Possibly the most obvious evidence to us of order in the Lord's house is found in the operation of physical law. President Brigham Young said, "... The Priesthood of the Son of God... Is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever" (Widtsoe: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). With this law in action, 785 we can observe the regularity with which the sun rises and sets, due, of course, to the earth turning on its axis. 'Ihe earth also moves in orbit, with other planets of the solar system, about the sun, at the same time the whole solar system moves as a unit through space but always in orderly relationship to the countless other systems. Order in Our World A more intimate look at the world we live on reveals the same consistent operation of law resulting in regularity and order. We are aware of the change of seasons. This makes us aware of the growth of plants, noting how growth varies with the warmth of the sun, the presence of plant food, light, and moisture. 'lhe seeds responding to the forces of nature sprout and grow true to their kind and variety. The same regularity exists in the animal kingdom. This regularity has gone on since the creation of the earth and will continue in orderly fashion according to the law of God. The physical world about us fulfills its purpose through the operation of divine law. In the beginning, God said, "... Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so" (Moses 2:24). The faithful function of the law in the physical world is evidence of the supreme wisdom of the Creator. Order in the Lives of People The same great knowledge and wisdom has provided the direction and regulation by which man can attain the full purpose of his crea- 786 tion. But man, being the spiritual child of God and having an intelligence that is co-eternal with God, was blessed with the privilege of choice. In the great plan, through inspiration and revelation, man was provided with direction and opportunity for full development, but he must discover for himself the value of truth and its bearing upon his progress and eventual exaltation. The physical world was set by law to accomplish its purpose, but man was given his free agency (the responsibility of choice) with the power of reflective thinking and the ability to make decisions, the effectiveness of which determines whether or not he is successful in achieving the full purpose of his creation.