INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 557 Her toe caught in the frayed end of a rug. Another job that must not be put off another day. At noon, Ruth filled a bucket with hot water and set it with soap and wash basin on a bench outside the kitchen door. She hung two towels on a nail above it. If only the "hands" would wash before they wiped, and if the last sweating man would think to throw out the water. She found herself praying that there wouldn't be a black, dirty ring around the wash basin. The men talked incessantly of the need of getting the hay up before storm, of derricks, of bull rakes—she would scream if they said bull rake again! What would Melvin think if she screamed out at these men who were making a slave of her— draining the last drop of beauty from her soul! Melvin, ready to leave for the field again, touched her tenderly on the shoulder. "You don't look well, dear; leave the dishes and I'll help you when I come in tonight." "Oh, I'm all right. It's this awful heat." Suddenly she remembered the apples—she must cook enough for supper, and for pies for tomorrow's dinner. It was a shame to open her canned fruit with apples spoiling on the tree. She would go down and pick a pailful before she changed her dress. She put Junior in his buggy, and gave him some clothespins with which to play while she picked a few of the lowest apples; then finding that the reaching sent hot waves of pain through her back and head, she dragged out an old box and swung herself up into the lower limbs. One of Junior's safety pins converted her skirt into a basket and she proceeded to billow out its depths with the tender, luscious fruit. "Well, well, Mrs. Packard," a metallic voice greeted her, "is your husband hiring you by the day or by the hour?" Ruth's eyes rested in dismay on the smartly clad Mrs. Black so cooly scrutinizing her. "T've come to take you_into Madrix." Madrix was the cosmopolitan little city that drew its trade, not alone from its own citizens, but the surrounding towns as well. "I'm driving in to get some dresses I ordered a week ago. I really haven't a thing to wear as you can see."; Ruth saw a rose-colored sport suit—the kind she had dreamed about for herself—lovely in its quality and cut. "T tried to call you up but central couldn't raise you; so I just took a chance on your going and drove out. We'll have dinner at Murello's,"' Mrs. Black continued, "and then home again at a respectable bed time. I left a note for the Doctor saying I'd be back not later than ten o'clock." "Oh, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Black, but I really can't." A vision of two "hands" again for supper, churning to do, apples to 
 stew, clothes to put to soak. Why, oh, why could she never get through— "Well, of course, if you can't—" Mrs. Black's voice held well-bred contempt, "it must be terrible to never have any leisure." When she had gone, Ruth got slowly down from the tree. For the life of her she could not hurry except in her thoughts. They rushed ahead to the never ending drudgery. She started for the kitchen but the house began to recede, whirling faster and faster as she neared it. She stretched her hand out for the knob to steady herself and fell headlong across the step. When she awoke it was in the dim stillness of a white hospital room. "What's happened?" she asked faintly of the crisp vision in white, bending over her. "Operation, Mrs. Packard, just lie still now and you' won't feel so sick," and the nurse tiptoed out for a moment, leaving Melvin alone with his wife. His face, Ruth thought, looked unnaturally white through its heavy coat of tan, yet his lips smiled whenever her eyes rested on him. It seemed to Ruth that she had been wandering through a burning desert and the coolness and stillness that had descended upon her now was an oasis of peace. Dr. Black, himself, came in presently, "Doing just fine. We'll have you up in no time now, and feeling a lot better than before you stretched yourself out on the doorstep, too." When Ruth was well enough to be propped up among her pillows, she found a quiet enjoyment in the well-ordered efficiency of the life about her, no rush or hurry; the calm and quiet nurses showed no signs of fatigue. Three times daily the tray furnished a happy surprise. She could even read a few minutes at a time, some of the lovely things in Browning or Keats—things that had been completely crowded out by the many demands that farm life makes on its women. Jasimine McFarlane, the nurse whom Melvin secretly called Jazzy, because of her kittenish action when Dr. Black was around, had warned Ruth against such "heavy trash" and had offered her a copy of True Stories. "Something racy enough to be interesting" she had told her. But Ruth had continued with her Browning. Once Dr. Black had brought her a great box of roses. "From my own garden," he told her. "T know, there on the south, I shall never forget how it looked that day we had those snaps taken." "Nor J," he answered. A warm note crept into his voice, "Oh, my Gypsy Lady,'— _—— INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 559 Gypsie Lady was a name he had coined for her in one of his gay, tender moods, long ago, "that rose garden ought to have been yours. What a picture you'd make against those dark red ones!" Ruth resented his use of that endearing term, his tone; and yet it quickened her pulse and made flaming banners of her cheeks. ' L Melvin had come in just then and he carried a huge bunch of golden glow. "Mother picked them;' he said, "while I was cranking the jitney. They look pretty commonplace against those roses, though." Melvin sat down by the bed and took one of her hands in his work-hardened ones. The hard callouses on his hands irritated her tender flesh. She found herself sharply aware of Melvin's rough khaki trousers, his heavy shoes. She wished he had taken time to put on his black suit. That wouldn't have contrasted so badly with Dr. Black's well pressed gray. Instantly Ruth felt ashamed. Hadn't Melvin already added another hour to his already long work day, digging the trenches for the pipe so that they could have the water installed in the house before she came home. "You can come for your wife tomorrow evening, Mr. Packard," Dr. Black told Melvin as he was leaving, and the light that sprang into Melvin's eyes found an answering one in Ruth's. Melvin left at nine o'clock. Through her open window Ruth heard him crank the car and drive away; one more night and she would be with him and baby Junior! Miss McFarlane came in presently to see if her patient needed anything, but Ruth was already asleep. The nurse tiptoed out, leaving the door partly ajar. Directly across the hall from Ruth's room was the supply room. It was here the nurses often congregated for a brief gossip and Ruth found her knowledge of human nature vastly enlarged from the low-toned conversations that occasionally drifted in. > Shortly after midnight, Ruth awoke. She could hear someone moving quietly around in the supply room. Miss McFarlane, no doubt, preparing a sleeping potion for some wakeful patient. Suddenly she heard someone coming down the hall. Dr. Black, she couldn't mistake those footsteps! She caught a glimpse of his coat as he entered the supply room. "T thought I'd find you here," she heard him say in a low voice. The girl's answer was blotted out in a ripple of laughter that followed. "You little devil,' Ruth heard a slight scuffle, "you know you want me to kiss you." A moment's silence then, followed by more hushed whisperings. Ruth's face burned in the darkness. And this was the man whose wife she envied! This was the man with whom 
 Melvin had suffered in comparison! She was humbled and humiliated. Why, Melvin was worth more than a world full of Dr. Blacks with their well pressed clothes, their laughing eyes and their lying lips. What did it matter if she did sometimes work beyond her strength; what mattered if she were denied some of the luxuries of life? Rosescolored dresses, music, money, leisure, Mrs. Black needed them all to compensate her for the hollowness of her husband's love. Separators, churning, canning, hay men, yes, and a thousand other things, so long as she was harbored in the lolve of a man like Melvin. The following evening Melvin and Junior came for her in the jitney. The ride home through the mellow autumn twilight, Junior's chubby, little hands clutching tightly to hers, Melvin's voice tremulous with love and tenderness, it was like a benediction. "T feel like a church all lighted up with Easter candles," she thought. When they turned into the lane that led to the house, Ruth caught sight of her mother-in-law standing in the doorway, waving frantically with one hand while with the other she wiped her eves on her apron. "Joy is the only thing that can make mother do that," Melvin smiled. He drove up to the door and then carried Ruth in and deposited her on the living-room couch. Mother Packard had supper ready, and when she brought Ruth's tray, it held a single, white rose bud. "Melvin would have me put it. On," the good woman scolded, "though I've always said "less grass, more grub, for me." Her harsh laughter sounded strangely home-like and com- "forting after the stilled, unnatural atmosphere of the hospital. When the dishes were washed and Junior had kissed "Muvver" good-night, and been tucked into bed, Mother Packard, herself, awkwardly planted a kiss-on her daughter's forehead. 'T'll be over first thing in the morning," she said, "to see if Emmy's doing all right." She closed the door and Melvin and Ruth were alone in the silence of their sleeping house. Ruth looked lovingly at each object, the picture of Junior in its gilt frame, the piano in its shadow-darkened corner, the sixteen-dollar reading lamp Melvin had given her for Christmas. In its pool of yellow light, Ruth saw a great bunch of golden glow in her brass bowl. "It's to cover up that ink-stain," Melvin said quickly, when he saw her eyes resting on it. "You know, dear, you kept talking about the ink spots when you were coming out of the ether. I happened to remember it after I had started for you tonight, INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 561 so I hurried back and filled that bowl with golden glow so those ink spots wouldn't show." "Dear boy," Ruth's voice was husky, "this home, my baby, your love—that's the golden glow. With it the ink spots don't matter."