the United Order is taught.* That it is also taught in the Book of Mormon is strong' proof of the divine inspiration of that volume. Joseph Smith could not, from his knowledge of the New Testament, have invented the story in Fourth Nephi; nor could anyone else. Community of Interests Among Indians. Again the question arises whether Indian culture as recorded knows any community of interests— a koinonia—such as that described in the fourth book of Nephi. And again the answer is a wonderful confirmation of the Book of Mormon; for, in fact, the very foundation of the highest Indian social structure is community of interests. Construction of Indian Society. Unlike civilized society in our day, Indian society was made up of gentes, totems, or *Secs. 51:3; 9; 70; 78:5; 82:17; 72:11; 82:20; 104:1; 104:68; 105:34, ose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clans, and not of families. The gens is a body of "consanguineal kindred,' whether by birth or adoption. They all live together in one house or lodge, and are under obligation to assist one another. Each gens is self-governing. It elects its own chieftain and decides on all questions of property within its own limits. Marriage within the gens is prohibited, and descent is, in many instances, traced, and property descends in the female line only. When descent was reckoned through the female line, the husband joined through marriage the gens of the wife. Property, with the exception of a few articles of personal necessity, belonged to the wife, and the husband had no claim on it. The price of a man, if killed, was only three-fourths that of a woman, among the Hurons. This social arrangement seems very strange to us, but it was similar to that which prevailed among the Semites in the days of Abraham. Sarah was the "princess," as the name implies. That is, she was the chieftainess, and her position went by inheritance to her successors, Rebekah, Leah, Dinah, and Sarah, the daughter of Asher, the son of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid. ' (Num. 26:46.) In Egypt, too, in those days, the woman was the mistress of the house. She held the property, and inheritance was through the female line. This social feature was 'preserved among the American Indians, as it is to this day, to some extent, among the Arabs of the desert. A group of gentes or clans formed a phratry or brotherhood, generally for religious purposes, and a group of phratries constituted a tribe. The tribe was governed by a council. The chief was elected by that body, and his authority was. Limited to affairs of peace. For war, a war chief was elected by the council, and he was supreme while there was war. The Long House. The Long House of the Iroquois Indians illustrates the principle of a united order. This habitation was from fifty to a hundred feet long. The interior was divided off in compartments, six or eight feet each, and open towards a passageway or aisle which ran through the center of the house. There was one fire-place to each four rooms, and this was used by the four families occupying the rooms nearest. "Thus a house with five fires would contain twenty apartments and accommodate twenty families, unless some apartments were reserved for storage. They were warm, roomy, and tidily-kept habitations. Raised bunks were constructed around the walls of each apartment for beds. * * * Whatever was taken in the hunt or raised by cultivation by any THE UNITED ORDER oat 53 member of the household * * * was for the common benefit. Provisions were made a common stock within the: household." To that extent they had preserved the principle of the "United Order," which was practiced by the Nephites as related in the Book of Mormon. This was, as Dr. Brinton says, the ideal theory of the American tribal organization. And we may recognize its outlines almost anywhere on the continent, although it was carried out sometimes with more, sometimes with less, faithfulness to the perfect pattern. In Peru the principles of the United Order were applied on a larger scale and more in detail than anywhere else. There is a striking similarity between the ideals and aims of these Iroquois reformers and those of the Peruvian Incas. The rulers of Peru also aimed at the unification of the nations under one divinely appointed head, and, although their power was that of absolute despotism, they generally sought to overcome Opposition by the exercise of paternal benevolence. Where, then, we may ask, did the prehistoric inhabitants of America dbtain their ideas of a "Millennial" kingdom on this earth? Whence came their inspiration? There is, as far as I know, only one answer to that question. The marvelous light which their ancestors once enjoyed, as related in the Book of Mormon, was never entirely extinguished. Here and there a spark from the divine fire was glowing, dimly, uncertainly, but yet perceptible to men and women who had the gift to see and to reflect. In others words, they had traditions, in more or less imperfect form, of the institutions and teaching of their ancestors, and of the gospel that promises a reign of peace on earth. And they were endeavoring, in' their imperfect way, to follow the dim light, in the hope of finally reaching the goal—the "golden age" of which prophets and poets in all ages have spoken. Prayer By Christie Lund Lord, in this hour of night Lord, in this dark despair Show us the way; Teach us to feel Give us again the light That thou canst hear our prayer Of happy day. Tho' mute we kneel. Strengthen our wayward feet To firmly stand; Down in this darkness deep, Give us thy hand. Ink Spots and Golden Glow By Estella Pugmire Rich "Five-thirty, dear; time to start another. Day." Ruth's heavy lids opened slightly. Melvin, putting on a shoe, dropped it, and the crash cut through her consciousness like a jagged wound. She sat up in bed. The bedroom opened off the living room, and through the open doorway Ruth caught a glimpse of an ugly ink-stain on her pine-cone table runner. Memories of last night assailed her. She and Melvin had almost quarrelled—that is she had. Melvin refused calmly to answer the hot words she flung at him and that had exasperated her all the more. Melvin had insisted as usual in sitting through the evening with the newspaper propped in front of his face, and his stockinged feet resting on the library table. It had long been a source of irritation to Ruth—this stocking-foot habit of Melvin's, and the resting place he invariably chose for his feet; but last night it had seemed intolerable even before his unfortunate move had upset the ink bottle. She had sprung up, then, anger flaming her face, a halfdarned sock still covering her hand: "If you'd keep your feet on the floor, Melvin, where they belong,—but no, you must spoil the last vestige of beauty I've tried to bring into this hideous farm life." "I'm sorry, dear," Melvin answered quietly, blotting up the black stream that trailed across her precious pine-cone table runner, "but I can't see why a little ink spot should call out such an outburst. I'll buy you another as soon as I go into town." Buy her another, indeed! Of course, he couldn't understand —what man could?—all the long hours she had put into it. She had made it while convalescing after Junior's birth, two years before. There had been no time for fancy work since then. The cluster of big, brown cones she had worked with such infinite care never failed to bring a queer little feeling of coolness when she glimpsed them in these hot, busy days of summer. And heaven knew she needed a feeling of coolness with her head aching steadily for a week at a time as it had been doing lately. Junior's voice from the bedroom checked the torrent of angry words struggling for utterance. "Mudder, me wants a drink," he whimpered. "Oh, leave it alone," she said wearily to Melvin over her INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 555 shoulder as she passed: into the bedroom with a glass of water, "Vl see what I can do with it tomorrow." Listlessly Ruth dragged herself out into the kitchen where Melvin had already made the fire before going out to do his chores. When he returned, the cereal was bubbling on the back of the range and Ruth was putting a platter of fried ham into the warming oven. Ugh, how she hated the smell of ham! And the driving noise of that separator! A stray fly buzzed past her ear and began a leisurely journey around the sugar bowl. She reached for the swatter but it was not on its accustomed nail. 7 Breakfast over, Melvin kissed her and started for the south field, but he called back to tell her there would be six 'men instead of five for dinner. She nodded languidly as her eyes surveyed the medley before her—the huge separator, the soiled and drying breakfast dishes, a bucket of eggs to case, bread to be put in the tins. By this time Junior was awake and crying lustily for his breakfast. Before she could get him bathed and dressed, little Tommy Atkins ran over to tell her that Emmy wouldn't be over to help her. Emmy. Was the sixteen-year-old neighbor girl who helped Ruth forenoons, during the summer. "She says she's got a sore throat, but pa says it's nothing but bein' 'petered out from too much dancin'." Tommy lowered his voice confidingly. "I heard pa tell her he'd 'lick' her if she went to another dance this week." Ruth fed Junior, then led him out into his sand pile to play. She gathered up the dishes, took the separator apart, and began the daily routine of bringing order out of the chaos. A scream rent the air. She ran out to find Junior with a jagged cut across his finger. A rusty tomato can lay beside him. She dressed the wound with iodine, wrapped up the finger, then gathering the squirming little body up in her arms she. Carried him into the living room and began rocking him. Presently he fell asleep and she sat still, staring moodily at a honey bee that had been tempted in by a bowl of flowers. It beat its head against the window screen in a vain attempt to reach freedom. "We are all like that," she mused, "enticed into something that appears so beautiful only to find it changed to prison bars." She laid Junior down, with a worried eye on the clock. Farm life leaves so little time for the children! By a quarter to eleven, Ruth had fought her way through the morning's work. Junior still slept. If only she might stretch out on the davenport for a half hour's rest before starting dinner, but she remembered that Melvin had failed to get the potatoes. That meant she must make a trip down to the garden. 
 With dinner due in an hour and a-half there was time neither for rest nor for the churning that must be done before night. She went into the closet for her hat, and while reaching, dislodged a kodak album. A picture fluttered to the floor. She picked it up and stood staring at it like something she had never seen before. It was one of those bits of crystallized life that almost drugs with its peace—she and Dr. Charlie Black, both in white, lolling contentedly in two huge wicker chairs, a glimpse of rose-bordered bungalow behind them; a sweep of wide lawn before them, with a shadow from an ash tree caught in its velvet—that was all; but it spoke to Ruth of what might have been. She remembered the days so well. Dr. Charlie had brought her out to his mother's home for a few days before he left to study medicine. For a moment Ruth almost caught the thrill of his caressing voice—'"It will all be ours some day, Girlie, if you'll just say the word.", Somehow her memories of Dr. Black were always bound up with leisure, moonlight nights, boxes of flowers and candy, and a vague, uneasy feeling that he was not wholly sincere. She had felt herself desperately in love with Dr. Black, then, but something had held her back from making the promise that he sought. "Wait till you come back and we'll see how we feel then," she told him. Then Melvin had come into her life, and something way down ~* in the deep, still part of her being responded to the bigness of his soul, his sincerity, his utter disregard of sham, and before Dr. Black had finished his second year of study, a narrow band of gold proclaimed Ruth—Mrs. Melvin Packard. Melvin had already bought a farm about ten miles out from Adamson, Dr. Black's home town. Dr. Black, himself, had married shortly afterward—a St. Louis girl, and three years later had come back to practice in his home town and occupy the white bungalow that his mother's death had made his own. "We are only here temporarily," Mrs. Black confided to Ruth at their first meeting. "I simply couldn't bear to live permanently in a town where its people fail to dress for dinner." A sharp contrast rose in Ruth's mind of the difference in hers and Mrs. Black's method of spending this day. Mrs. Black no doubt was working among her flowers, or embroidering out on her shady porch. Ruth looked with disdain on the ink-stained ' table runner. She must find time to run down to the store for a lemon. Lemon and, O yes, salt, that would take it out.