Thanksgiving By Beatrice Williams I thank thee, Lord, for mountains etand and tall, For dull, gray skies of bleak November days, For that lone robin on the old stone wall, That sings in sweetest tones his 'parting lays. I thank thee for that tiny flower, there, That in the garden bed still blooms alone. Its golden head was once so bright and fair, But now it droops as by the wind 'tis blown. I thank thee for the friends thou givest me, To clasp my hand and lead my feet aright, To banish grief and help my eyes to see, And give me faith to pray throughout the night. For thine own son, who died that we might live And know our Father's glory and his might; My humblest thanks in praise to thee I give, Oh, Lord and Savior, of the truth and light. List of Literary Lessons for 1928 Lew Sarett Bertha A. Kleinman Carl Sanburg Grace Ingles Frost John Masefield Gladys Ann Wagstaff Robert Louis Stevenson Elsie C. Carroll Charles G. D. Roberts Claire Stewart Boyer William Henry Drummond Ruth Harwood Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman New Zealand Mission. RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD, NEW ZEALAND MISSION Following are excerpts from a letter written to the General Board by Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins, president of the Relief Societies of the New Zealand mission: "A Hui Tau (annual conference) is always very interesting, and ours of this year was exceptionally so, being held, through the courtesy of Princess Te Puea Herangi, at the Queens pa, Ngaruawahia. The village is situated on the beautiful Waikato river, which of itself is a scene of beauty, also of importance, as the annual regatta is held there each year. Princess Te Puea most graciously turned over to our use all of the buildings of the pa, and President Jenkins and I and our children had the honor of occupying her bedroom. The whare kai, or dining hall, which seats four hundred people, was beautifully decorated. In the evening a fountain in the center of the hall, surrounded by colored lights, was an unusual sight in a Maori village. The visitors' home was also very nice and was completed just recently to be ready for our hui. Two special meetings were held where the tribes represented in our gathering greeted and were greeted by those of royal blood. This was all very interesting and touching, and an occasion that is not often witnessed even by Europeans who have lived in New Zealand all their lives. Monday evening Princess Te Puea's people entertained us with a congert, and the Princess was then presented with two lovely quilts which were made by the sisters of the