[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 710 | Home | Homemaking ... A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Hazel | S. Cannon]
HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education; and to re-emphasize INTRODUCTION In "The Tale of Custard, the Dragon," the whimsical poem by Ogden Nash, American poethumorist, Custard longs for only 710 the objectives of the past year. One thing, "a nice safe cage." Have you as a homemaker ever felt like Custard, yearning for the confines of "a nice safe cage" to shut out the disrupting in- fluences which extract your energies, and to forbid the entrance of some activities for which you seem to be responsible? Have you ever longed for the demands of modern living to remain static just long enough for you to "catch up"? Much as the homemaker might share Custard's outlook, there is no hiding spot for her. She must make home the happiest, the most desirable, the most secure, and the most aesthetically satisfying place in the world—for her husband, her family, and herself. In this day of specialization, she must remain a general practitioner. The entire homemaking curriculum is hers to master with 'an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Education in homemaking experiences develops depth of abilities and understandings; it provokes intellectual excitement and provides the atmosphere which encourages the optimal personal achievement of each family member. TO DISCUSS 1. Why are some girls, the great majority of whom will marry and run their own homes, so repelled at the thought of receiving instruction at home and/or school in homemaking activities which will obviously be central in their lives later? (Point out among other things that some girls may not have been impressed favorably in their own homes relative to the value of homemaking. Elicit from the class the fact that the role of the homemaker is a powerful one in the development of the eternal verities in her family; and that she may well hold the fate of the world in her hands.) 2. In what ways do you feel that the homemaking profession needs upgrading? Discuss. 3. How can the study of the fine arts, such as music, literature, drama, LESSON DEPARTMENT add dimension to the life of the homemaker and her family? One modern American writer speaks of the knowledge which a homemaker brings to her calling as a jewel which can gleam just as brightly in the kitchen as when it is brought to the marketplace. She deplores the attitude assumed by some _ individuals that enlightenment is not for one concerned with such tasks as scouring the sink, mixing up a batch of chocolate brownies, or entertaining children. The homemaker, indeed, wears a precious jewel when her imagination is challenged, when there is adequate use of her experiences, and when exciting opportunities for creativity and learning are realized. MAKE YOUR OWN HEAVEN Attributed to Pliny the Elder are the stirring words, "Veritably it is a truism—that home is where the heart is." Equally impressive is the expression of the little girl, who having just moved to an apartment house, exclaimed, ""We have a home, but no house to put itn." Inescapably bound together are the heart, the mind, and the spirit in the creation of a happy home. The cooperation of the family and the degree of communication among them are the result of the parents' teaching and example. Willie Mae Rogers, director of the Institute of Good Housekeeping Magazine, at the Fifteenth National Home Laundry Conference, held in Chicago in 1961, shared a choice recipe from a reader.