[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 677 | Home | A Family Tapestry Carolyn | Durham Peters]
A Family Tapestry

Design and Creative Craft by Carolyn Durham Peters

The lines of ancestry which have been woven together to make a Latter-day Saint family pattern are represented graphically in this significant pattern. The basic background material is dark green burlap thirty-eight inches long and twenty-four inches wide. One inch is used for a hem at the bottom of the tapestry, and two inches for turning under at the top for inserting a dowel rod so that the tapestry can be hung upon the wall of the home library or the family room. Threads are removed on the sides of the burlap to make a three-fourths inch fringe, and the threads so removed are braided together to make the hanging cord which is attached to the dowel rod.

The symbolic motifs (flowers, Viking ship, and coat of arms) are cut from felt and attached to the burlap by a zigzag machine stitch.

In this particular family design, the Viking ship (upper right) represents the Norwegian (Widtsoe) and the Danish (Madsen) lines of ancestry; the coats of arms are symbolic of the Wallace and Durham (British) families. The bouquet exemplifies the States where members of the family were born: the sego lily for Utah; the golden poppy for California; and the dogwood for Missouri. The mottos in the insignia (lower left) weave historic heraldry into modern aims and ideals: Durum ("I have found it") for California; Industry (for Utah); and salus populi suprema lex ("Let the Welfare of the People Be the Supreme Law") for Missouri. The equal sign combines the mottos and points them to the family name of MADSEN.

Variations of this significant and beautiful design could be made to represent any family, and the pride of heritage and interest in tracing lines of ancestry can be greatly enhanced when the family members can see, graphically placed before them, a representation of the treasured weaving of many honored threads that make a family tapestry.