Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Acquaint now thyself with Him, and be at peace; thereby good shall come unto thee (Job 22:21.) May not the good referred to include not 242 only peace and comfort, but also the benefits derived from the ability to understand the deeper meaning of life?its purpose and possibilities? This leads us to contemplate eternal life and the way it may be obtained. The promises made to those who obey the commandments of the Savior and live up to his teachings are a source of great satisfaction and joy. To enter the kingdom of heaven, to see God and to be called the children of God, these are the greatest gifts to which man is heir. Other promises contained in the Beatitudes, such as being comforted and obtaining mercy add much to the fulness of this life. But to receive these blessings certain activity is necessary. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:16.) "Preach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to humble themselves and to be meek and lowly in fheart; teach them to withstand every temptation of the devil, with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. Teach them to never be weary of good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart; for such shall find rest to their souls." (Alma 37:33-34.) "And thus a not unkindly word Hath done its best for me. Yet have found, O God! No rest, No harbor short of Thee." Has not the careful consideration of the Beatitudes drawn us a little nearer our Savior? If the aim of the Jessons this year is being realized, how will it help us obey the first two great commandments? Contrast the way of happiness which Jesus outlined with popular ideas of how to be happy. Where, according to jthe Beatitudes does happiness lie? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Which of the Beatitudes would mean greatest happiness to you? It has been said that the "greatest of all privileges and the source of the truest, deepest and most enduring happiness of lives, come from sacrificing with and for others." Explain the word ''Blessed." How would you like a person who lived according to the teaching of the Beatitudes? Should a Relief Society member possess all these virtues? Why? 'Are they active or passive traits? Which Beatitudes refers to a teachable humility? What must the mourners do, to be Blessed? Give from the Bible an example of a meek man. Explain. Distinguish between meekness and weakness. How does a man show the condition of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Explain the fifth Beatitude. Recite and give your interpretation of the sixth Beatitude. To be peacemakers what must we do? ' Do you know of any causes which are being persecuted today? What is the purpose of persecution? How have you been benefited by studying the Beatitudes? Note: The above questions are given for the purpose of summarizing some of the important points which have been given during the study of the Beatitudes. Suggestion is made that they be used in class work, rather than taken directly into the homes. May not each visiting teacher use in visiting homes, those particular thoughts which have meant the most to her, and which she has been able to best incorporate into her own life? Read Matthew, Chapter 5.