[Vol46 | February 1959 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
Work IT leeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Managerial Aspects of Clothing the Family Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, May 12, 1959 Objective: To consider the management problems involved in providing adequate clothing for each family member. HERE is no norm or guide for choice in cloth as there is in nutritional needs of the body. Style, fashion, and fad need to be adapted to individual differences within the financial limits of the family. Being well dressed for the occasion and being aware of it can be of benefit to each member of the family psychologically, physically, and socially. For the majority of families, an adequate wardrobe for each member is possible only by intelligent management. Here are some practical suggestions for planning the family clothing needs: 1. Know the maximum amount of money available for the family clothing. 2. Analyze the characteristics of each member of the family as applied to clothing needs. 3. Anticipate the clothing needs of the family two to three years in advance. 4. Select the best stores for values, and shop at the sales. 5. Use all available information concerning quality, workmanship, shrinkage, colorfastness, suitability, care, and upkeep of clothes. 6. Train children to take good care of their clothing. 7. Do as much home sewing as possible and practical. Read the Label New materials are constantly coming onto the market, and new finPage 130 ishes are given to old fabrics. Today, even the experts can be confused as to the type of material used in a garment. For most of us, our best help is to read the label and follow the manufacturer's suggestions for care of the fabric. A good label should give the type of fiber used in the garment, the probable shrinkage, the color fastness to various causes of fading, resistance to wrinkles, and best type of care for fabric. General Care of Clothing If clothes are to have that fresh, immaculate look, they should be cared for daily, weekly, and seasonally. Good clothes deserve good care. Here are some suggestions for general care: 1. Buy good, shaped hangers for suits and coats. 2. Remember "a stitch in time saves nine." 3. Mend before laundering. 4. Broken threads in sweaters and knit wear should be caught and crocheted in again. A hole in a sweater should be darned.. The life of a pair of shoes is lengthened with proper care and a rest between wearings. Occasional Care of Clothing 1. Stains should be removed as soon as possible after they occur and always before laundering. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Follow directions on labels for Jaundering or dry cleaning. Seasonal Care of Clothing 1. Repair and clean all clothes before they are stored for the season. Cotton, linen, silk, and rayon clothing should be washed and put away unstarched, unblued, and unironed. Non-washable articles should be dry cleaned before being stored. Wool garments that are not mothproofed should be washed in soapsuds or dry cleaned, since all stages of moth life ate killed by these processes. Good Buying Principles The first requirement for a satisfactory wardrobe is to take stock of what you have, then plan for those things you really need. One hundred well-planned dollars can bring more satisfaction than two hundred unplanned dollars. The following shopping principles can help all of us get more satisfaction from our purchases: 1. Compare values. Experienced professional comparative shoppers say it is advisable to stop at several stores before purchasing expensive clothing items, such as a coat, suit, or a good quality dress. 2. Select basic or classic styles. 3. Buy clothes that fit your needs. Nothing is a bargain unless it fits in with your clothing plans. 131] 4. Purchase middle-priced items. 5. Know store brands. 6. Shop regular store sales, 7. Pay cash. Home Sewing Most homemakers know the satisfaction that can come from completing a home sewed article that turns out well. Skill in sewing can pay big dividends in the life of the average homemaker not only in dividends as far as money is concerned, but also dividends in terms of satisfaction and pride of accomplishment. Discussion Thoughts 1. Choose two or three new fabrics or new finishes for fabrics and show how each has simplified the care of clothing. Contrast the care necessary for these fabtics with those they have replaced. 2. Make a comparison of a garment purchased ready-made and one made at home (children's clothes, shirt, blouse or dress). Consider cost in time, energy, money, quality of fabric, enjoyment of garment. (Perhaps some of the women who sew could be asked in advance to bring some of their articles for study.) 3. Recall purchase of clothing you have made recently, one you feel was a good buy and another a poor buy. See if you can pinpoint the reasons why you consider one good and the other bad. A She Pyracantha Christie Lund Coles There have been few poems Penned to you, and yet What shrubs more greenly grow, All through the summer, (Glossy — warm or wet —) Then flaunt red berries through the snow? Sf teravare — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 8—Jonathan Edwards, Puritan Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 84-95) For Tuesday, May 19, 1959 Objective: To see in Jonathan Edwards a harmonizing of various phases of New England Puritanism. HILE performing the office of tutor at Yale College for his second year, Jonathan was seized by an illness which kept him in bed for almost three months. Upon his recovery in 1726, at age twenty-three, he was offered the great opportunity of serving as a colleague of his distinguished grandfather, the Reverend Solomon Stoddard, who had been minister in the far western Massachusetts town of Northampton for fifty-four years, and soon to retire. Solomon Stoddard was loved and respected throughout the entire Connecticut Valley. So directly had he defied the wishes of the Boston clergy that he was known more familiarly as "Pope" Stoddard. Particularly during recent decades, as the influence of the Mothers declined, he had become the most powerful single force in New England Puritanism. And Jonathan Edwards was to be groomed as his replacement. The Half-Way Covenant In 1662, ten years before Solomon Stoddard had come to Northampton as a young man, violent dissension had arisen in New England churches over the Half-Way Covenant, a Page 132 compromise measure which no one liked, yet one which many felt necessary, if the churches were to perpetuate themselves. Within each community were three groups: those who came to New England for adventure, profit, and freedom, but were members of no church. Second, those who attended church but who had never been granted membership. 'Third, actual members of the church body, or "visible saints," who could partake of church sacraments and who could vote in church council which was also town council. To be eligible for church membership a person had to have received a personal spiritual manifestation. Few second-generation children had had such an experience, and even fewer grandchildren of the originai founders. While the churches were full, the number of actual members had become alarmingly small. 'The Half-Way Covenant of 1662 granted membership to secondand third-generation Puritans who attended regularly and who believed the basic creed, but who had not received spiritual illumination. Many fervent believers felt this liberalizing compromise to be the beginning of the end. LESSON DEPARTMENT Doctrine of Self-Reliance By contrast, Solomon Stoddard felt the Half-Way Covenant didn't go far enough. He established a policy, strongly opposed by his fellow churchmen in eastern Massachusetts, which did go far enough. He believed that all who desired membership should be admitted, regardless of whether their family had been church members or not. His liberalizing policy brought him a wider popularity and influence than any other minister of his day enjoyed. By sheer power of his personality and through his powerful belief in the basic Puritan doctrine of self-reliance, Stoddard freed his followers from complete domination by their ancestors: And it would be no humility but baseness of spirit for us to judge ourselves incapable to examine the principles that have been handed down to us.... If the practices of our fathers in any particulars were mistaken, it is fit they should be rejected; if they be not, they will bear examination. Among many other lessons taught him by his predecessor, Edwards learned this one well. Crusade Against "Surface-Religion" After Jonathan Edwards had served Stoddard as apprentice and co-worker for but two years, Solomon Stoddard died, in 1729, and Edwards began his more than twenty years of service to his Northampton congregation. Naturally, he was anxious to prove that he was following in "the Pope's footsteps." Despite such a normal! Desire, however, it was not too long until he began preaching views directly opposite those he inherited. Increasingly during the next decade, young Edwards found in 133 Northampton more and more evidence that to more and more of the wealthy, powerful, and smug townspeople, the true Christian religion meant less and less. 'Though never once did he mention anyone by name, he rebuked them for their lewd language and tavern-hunting, their rampant gossiping and quarrelling among families, economic factions, their bitter differences over common land to be divided amongst them, and, most of all, for their worshiping comfort and wealth rather than God. Alarmed at their complacency and "surface-religion," he accused them even more firmly of being unconscious Arminians. Stemming from the beliefs of the Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius (1560-1609), the doctrines of Arminianism softened and liberalized the teachings of Calvin by offering atonement to all men, making predestination conditional rather than absolute, and enabling man to resist both sin and grace through freedom of the will. The special problem in Northampton was that many had come to feel God, not themselves, to be responsible for evil. The faction which most resented Edwards' constant attacks on local Arminianism was a group of merchants and landowners led by his own cousins whom he had early offended. He preached his concepts of God and man to them in sermons rarely less than two hours long, sometimes extending to five, yet so great was his insight into the hearts of his audience and so great was his skill in holding his audience that, rarely, did he lose a listener. He lectured each Thursday evening in an effort to meet the midweek demand for religious leadership. He spoke slowly but distinctly in a low 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 voice, reading from sermon notes or Bible in his left hand, his elbow resting on the pulpit, and rarely moving his right hand except to turn the page, yet withal impressing his audience with his "habitual and great solemnity, looking and speaking as if in the presence of God." Central in Edwards' theology is the concept of a God-centered universe. For him, God is all, man nothing. Edwards believed thus not because tradition or authority dictated it to him, but because it was logically inescapable according to his thinking. According to Edwards' beliefs, mankind had erred into all forms of Covenant Theology because New England had forgotten the divinity of the Divine. For Edwards the most vital religious experiences, indeed the most vital of all experiences in life, were emotional rather than rational or intellectual. Or to put it in other words, the best logical means for proving God and worshiping him was through the emotions. The big problem which Edwards tried to resolve remained: what about sin? Because God permits it, and because his house is one of order, therefore sin must be good in the overall harmonious plan. And if evil is allowed by God, it will exist. Edwards defined evil as the "property of the species" and cited man's record of brutalities throughout history as irrefutable evidence. Therefore, when man sins, a just God can only punish. Rather than blaming God for defining sinful man as his eneiny, Edwards taught that we must only praise him for his justice and stand before his unknowable sublimity in even greater awe and fear. Nor should we ever seek to attempt to tell him whom he may save or damn. 'True love of God is to love him and not to judge him. Before man, God need not stoop to justify his ways. Finally, is man _predestined to sin or has he freedom to choose, as the Arminians maintain? Edwards believed that if we accept God's sovereignty, we must also believe that all reality lies within the mind of God; therefore every event must have a cause. As our text points out (page 85), "We are able to do what we choose, but what we elect