[Vol46 | February 1959 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Star For many years I have read the artistic and thoughtfully beautiful poems of Grace Ingles Frost. She has a sensitive portrayal of her thoughts and a keen and detailed observation and interpretation of our earth environment, as well as a perspective of the eternities to come. It gives me much pleasure to see Miss Frost's poetry appear so frequently in the Magazine. Her poem "A Song for Thanksgiving," (November 1958) expresses so well her lovely spirit. —Christie Lund Coles Provo, Utah I would like to compliment you on the beautiful color cover of the November Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church since September 1956 and look forward eagerly to every issue of the Magazine. I thought the poem 'Young Mother," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan (November), was beautiful. I greatly enjoy all the poems in the Magazine. —Shirley Haylette Bristol, Vermont My wife takes The Relief Society Magazine, and, of course, I read it, too, and enjoy it. As I am interested in sewing, I read in the November issue concerning facings (by Jean R. Jennings). It is a very nice article. I make my _ wife's dresses, blouses, and skirts; for my grandchildren, I make shirts, trousers, pajamas, dresses, blouses, skirts, etc. —John R. Tracy Moline, Illinois IT am here in Monterrey, Mexico, with my husband and three boys, my husband as supervisor of chapel construction. I worked with Sister Rhoda Taylor, and now with Sister Anna Bentley as First Counselor in the Northern Mexican Relief Society. I have really learned to appreciate The Relief Society Magazine, also the work the society is doing all over the world. —Mrs. Rula McClellan Monterrey, Mexico Page /4

The beautiful colored cover on the November issue of the Magazine surely added to it. The Relief Society Magazine continues to be wonderful, and I want to wish you success in your work. —Roma C. Esplin President St. George Stake Relief Society St. George, Utah Your new color 1958) is beautiful! The old one-color orange, blue or brown became pretty monotonous. Let's have more poetry and more articles from our Priesthood General Authorities. —Opal Burt Denver, Colorado cover (November Though I am only sixteen, I can't help considering The Relief Society Magazine as much my own as anybody else's. I love the stories, articles, and recipes. They are not like the ordinary material published in other magazines. I have read several editorials, and they are always written about important and impressive subjects. I admire the way you present a problem and develop it so realistically. I especially liked the editorial "Making Right Choices" (by Marianne C. Sharp, May 1958). The editorials seem to hit on the very most important problems our family has. —Dorothy Campbell Logan, Utah Mrs. Margaret James of San Fernando, California, who is one hundred years old, reads The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover and enjoys the beautiful thoughts and stories very much. I also enjoy the Magazine. It gives me help and strength in so many ways. I love Relief Society work and have been associated with the program for many years, and enjoy the lessons so much. —Rose Calaway Anaheim, California