[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: POLYNESIA | Author: EMMA JENSON]

POLYNESIA

BY EMMA JENSON.
	THE opportunities of obtaining a liveli-
hood in native style on Samoa are very
good. It requires next to no effort at all
to obtain the necessary food. Taro or kalo
grows with but very little help in the shape
of cultivation and this is the staple article of
food on the group. Breadfruit is picked
from the trees as it ripens for several months
during the year, and cocoanut is always to
be had. Its flesh is used by the natives in
the preparation of many of their “rare
dishes.” When the breadfruit is out of
season and the people have neglected to
plant taro they are sometimes compelled to
subsist for months together on bananas. At
different times in past years when the is-
lands have been visited by hurricanes which
have blown down the breadfruit and cocoa-
nut and often pulled up or blown down the
trees themselves, the people have been re-
duced to a point of starvation until they
could plant and reap bananas, or until the
next crop of breadfruit would ripen. The
group of Manua are an exception to this,
here the people always keep a year’s supply
on hand and by this precaution have al-
ways escaped famine.
	Neither fermented nor distilled liquors 
were used by the Pacific Islanders before
the appearance of the whites on their shores
but they drank an infusion of the roots of
the awa plant, and that is still the favorite
drink on Samoa. The awa root is first
chewed by a certain class of young maidens,
pure virgins, of which there are one or
more in each village, after which the masti-
cated morsels are placed in a wooden bowl
and water poured upon them. The infusion
is then strained through a mesh of the awa
(cyperus) fibers and is then ready for drink-
ing. Its effects are narcotic and stupifying
and effects the legs more particularly, for
after the natives have drunk their fill of awa
they simply fall over from their seats on the 
mats on which they have been sitting while
drinking, and sleep out the effects of the
drug, until which it would be impossible
for them even to stand up for a moment.
	Speaking of the chewing of the awa root
by the Samoa woman it may be mentioned
that they are able to put their mouths to
sundry other kinds of peculiar usage. Thus
the Samoa mother always feeds her baby
from her own mouth to that of her child.
When she has to fill a lamp with coal oil
she generally fills her mouth with the oil
and then emits it into the vessel; she fills a
bottle in the same way. If a feminine
quarrel is going on the almost perfect teeth
with which nearly every native is blessed
are brought into terrible requisition, and
when a woman once buries her teeth in the
flesh of her opponent she is like the terrier,
loth to let go her grip until the enemy is
partly reduced to sausage meat. If a wo-
man in Samoa finds her husband untrue to
her she does not seek revenge on him par-
ticularly, but on his victim, whose nose the
wronged wife bites off if she can get the
opportunity; consequently noseless women
are frequently met with in Samoa.
	For a cheap and easy living Tonga per-
haps stands ahead of any group of islands in
the Pacific. The inhabitants there could
subsist for months on what nature herself
provides for them, without any exertion on
their part except to pick the fruit and eat.
And this naturally makes the natives of the

[Column 2]
Tonga Islands the most independent people
imaginable. That this has a tendency to
make them lazy and indolent is but natural.
The average Tongan is not supposed to
work more than about one day in a week.
	The absence of running streams or rivers
is one of the characteristics of the Friendly
Islands. There are only two very insig-
nificant exceptions throughout the 
whole group. Those occur at Vavan and
Ena. For soft water the inhabitants de-
pend entirely upon what is collected from
the clouds, either in tanks or clay pits called
by the natives lebas. The rainy months
are December, January and February. The
average temperature during the entire year
is 76, Fahrenheit. During the hot months
from December to March the thermometer
frequently ranges at 90 and even 96 in the
shade. The islands are subject to hurri-
canes which seem to recur with periodical
regularity and always in the rainy season
from December to March. “The full force
of the cyclone falls upon one or other of
the three groups, at intervals of about seven
years,” writes the Rev. Thomas West.
“The hurricane gives but few indications of
its approach. The wind rises suddenly, ac-
companied by heavy rain and its duration,
strength and progress in any given locality
depends upon its being nearer to, or more
remote from the center of the wind circle.
No tongue or pen can possibly convey an
adequate idea of these visitations. Heaven
and earth appear to be on the move; and
as for the sea, the grandeur is altogether in-
describable. The rush of the irresistable
tempest; the cracking and fall of trees on all
sides; branches hurled through the air;
cocoanuts torn from the trees and flung in
all directions with the velocity of a cannon
ball; a deluge of rain, unusual darkness and
the crash of falling houses; all of these at-
tendants upon a hurricane make up one of
the most dismal and terrific pictures in
natural phenomena. The destruction of
dwelling houses and other buildings usually
attendant upon these visitations must, how-
ever, be attributed not merely to the force
of the wind, but also in a great measure to
the torrents of rain. The fact is the heavy
rain soon saps the foundation of the large
posts upon which the security of the build-
ing depends. Gradually the wind sways
the superstructure to and fro, and at
every gust opens and widens the earth
around the sockets of the posts, until the
entire fabric loses its equilibrium and
coming down with a crash, all its posts and
beams however tough and thick are snapped
like so many carrots.” During a hurricane
in Vavan many years ago thirty-four out of
thirty-nine Wesleyan chapels were blown
down, though these buildings were the very
best and strongest constructed by the peo-
ple. All the islands are subject to earth-
quakes which are both frequent and violent.
	Speaking about rain storms in the tropics
my husband relates an experience he had in
Samoa. While crossing a lava bed about
twelve miles in extent together with a
traveling companion, a regular tropical rain
storm came upon them; and such a storm
conveys the sense of “pouring” more than
raining to the average American. Seeing
the storm approach my husband in speak-
ing to his companion expressed the regret
that they had taken no overcoats along.
“Overcoats,” responded his companion,
“just look at me, and if you like you can
follow my example.” To his surprise his
companion immediately undressed himself

[Column 3]
and put his clothing in his little hand satch-
el. My husband hesitated but finally did
likewise, and ihe result was that when the
storm abated they both had dry clothes to
put on.


