[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: NOTHING. | Author: Unknown]

NOTHING.

	THE St. George Relief Society was in a
quandary. Conference had closed and for
the thousandth time the subject of the stor-
ing of grain had been discussed. But this
time the Spirit had seemed more urgent
than ever before. With an omnious war-
cloud hanging over our very heads; with
tales of suffering and starvation of the most
appaling nature in various parts of our little
earth being brought to us daily; with late
frosts nipping the tender buds of our fruit
trees right at home, the theme refused to be
folded away in its accustomed napkin to
await the regular quarterly resurrection.
There it hovered, outlined in bold relief
against a background of foretold want and
misery and refused to be downed. 
	But what was to be done? An inventory
of the resources of the Society revealed half
a dozen patch-work quilts, some finished,
others in course of construction; a few pairs
of partly finished stockings and socks, a lim-
ited quantity of carpet rags, and a very
small amount of credit at the various indus-
trial and manufacturing concerns of the
country.
	“But we’ve got to have a granary,” said
the officers. “There is no getting around
it. It haunts us night and day, and we
cannot afford to have our health ruined by
insomnia,” so they put their heads to-
gether. The result was a committee.
What that committee was about was for a
time a secret. But it finally leaked out that
we were to have a “Bee.” It was not to
be a rag bee or a quilting, but a “Bee” to
which all our husbands and brothers and
sons were to be invited. They were not to
sip tea and knit socks for Sam, Dick and
Harry, but were to bring themselves, their
wagons and teams, gather the material and
build a granary.
	A day was set, and such a response! At
least one hundred and seventy-five men an
boys, with twenty-five good teams and 
wagons made lively times in the vicinity of
the Lyceum. There being a great many
more than could be utilized on the granary
a brigade was organized to clear up the
streets and renovate crossings, etc., and
another to devote themselves to fixing up
the Tabernacle grounds. Such a spirit of
unity and good feeling as prevailed among
them is seldom witnessed. Every one
seemed desirous of doing somebody else a
good turn, and seemed the happier when-
ever a slight circumstance or accident rend-
ered assistance necessary.
	During this time the ladies of the popu-
lace were not idle, as the following very
tempting menu will testify. As one of the
committee remarked, “We seated one hun-
dred and fifty men at dinner, and fed the
five thousand in the evening.” “And did
you gather up ten basketsfull after the
feast?” I asked. “I really believe we did,”
was the reply.
	Menu: Chickens roasted and boiled,
sixteen; baked beans, sixteen pans; toma-
toes, ten quarts; bread, forty-six loaves;
butter, twenty pounds; salmon, three cans;
eggs fried, thirty dozen; rice puddings,
seven; beef, three large joints; ham, three
large dishes; potatoes, thirty pounds; pick-
les, eight quarts; milk, eight quarts; sugar,
twenty-five pounds; pies, one hundred and
ten; cakes, fifty-four; fruits, thirty-two
quarts; tarts ad infinitum.
	In addition to the above, various articles
were given in which could not be used at

[Column 2]
the time, but which will come in useful
in the future. Quite a little sum was
also realized in cash, store pay, tithing pay
and factory pay, all of which will assist in
the good work.
	Now as to the labor accomplished:
Masonry about				$115,00.
Rock hauling, 96 perches		57.50.
Clay, 10 loads					5.00.
Sand						12.00.

Total work on granary			$189.50.
	In addition to the above thirty-five loads
of shale were hauled into the Tabernacle
yard, nearly as many more at street cross-
ings and a number of loads of rock for the
new school building in course of construc-
tion. All this, with the good work of the
street crossing committee would foot up a
grand total, could we arrive at the exact
figures.
	An entertainment was tendered the gen-
tlemen, their wives and sweethearts, in the
evening in the theatre. A nice program
was rendered, tempting refreshments served
after which the remainder of the time was
spent pleasantly in dancing.
	Dear Aunt Em and the readers of the
“Exponent” pardon this long contribution.
I have given the particulars thus in detail
in the hope that it might inspire some
others having similiar desires, but a deficien-
cy of the wherewithal, to go forth and do
likewise, with this example of successful
effort before them.
	Our granary will have a capacity of two
thousand bushels, and we expect to have it
ready to receive the wheat at harvest time.
Our success has made us bold, and we will
be pardoned for asserting that we do not
anticipate any trouble in getting grain to
put into it.
	We trust that the end and aim of this
communication may speedily be realized in
learning of some other struggling Society
making an effort in this necessary direction.
			JULIA A. PACE, Cor. Sec.
	St. George Stake.


