[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: ST. JOHN’S STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Minutes of the St. Johns Stake Primary con-
ference held Feb. 28, 1898, President Emma
B. Coleman presiding. After singing pray-
er was offered by our young brother, Oscar
Freeman. Sister Coleman made same good
and appropriate opening remarks. after
which a short program was rendered con-
sisting of songs, music, recitations and our
paper read by the editor, Ethel Farr.
	Short reports were given by presidents or
representatives of the different wards, every
ward in the Stake being represented. The
statistical report was read and the officers
sustained.
	Sister Cornelia Horne Clayton of Provo,
Utah, then addressed the congregation
in a very interesting manner, giving good
and timely instruction and sang the chil-
dren a song.
	President D. K. Udall spoke for a short
time, followed by Celia Hamblin. After
singing, benediction was pronounced by
young Revel Jarvis.
	SARAH H. CROSBY, Sec. pro tem.
MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at the Society hall Dec. 16, 1897, President
Mabel Ann Hakes presiding assisted by her
counselors, Lizzie A. McDonald and Sarah
M. Johnson, President C. R. Hakes and
other sisters Meeting was opened by the
usual exercises. Statistical and financial
report for the year ending Dec. 16, 1897,
was read and accepted. All the wards were
represented showing a good spirit prevail-
ing in our midst and the Saints generally
alive to their duties. The topics dwelt up-
on were the fostering of home industries,
storing grain etc., and a more strict observ-

[Column 2]
ance of the laws of God. A number of the
sisters bore testimonies, and all felt to re-
joice in the great work of the last days.
	President C. R. Hakes exhorted the
Saints to awake and make the warfare
against a spirit of evil and iniquity stronger
and harder until we should have helped to
redeem the inhabitants of the earth.
	Many good seeds were sown in the hearts
of those present, and all felt blest in coming
ttogether in this meeting. Adjourned fo
hree months. Benediction by President
Hakes.
			F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	ON February 11, 1898, the sisters of the
several branches comprising the Parowan
Stake Relief Society held their seventieth
quarterly conference in the ward Tabernacle
of Cedar City. The weather being un-
favorable the attendance was not so large as
it otherwise might have been. The five
wards comprising the Stake organizations
were represented as progressing favorably:
The work of gathering grain for the time of
need is being systematically carried on by
the sisters, the Stake having 1,480 bushels
and 30 pounds on hand at the present time.
	The instructions during our meeting were
principally exhorting parents, mothers es-
pecially, to train their children in their
youth in the principles of the work we as
Latter-day Saints are engaged in, for the
impressions made in childhood are never
forgotten. We should impress upon our
little ones the necessity of prayer and teach,
them to have faith in the Lord. The sub-
jects of intemperance and the word of wis-
dom were also spoken upon.
	As is customary at our conferences, Stake
President U. T. Jones with his counselors,
Francis Webster and Henry Leigh, and
several other brethren were in attendance
and by request a number of them addressed
the congregation, their good counsel being
duly appreciated by all present.
	The business attended to during the con-
ference was the reading of reports and sus-
taining of local officers. Sister Ann E.
Webster was sustained as first counselor to
Stake President Mary Ann Lunt, thereby
filling the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Sage T. Jones. Sister Webster acted
in the capacity of president of the Cedar Re-
lief Society from 1886 to 1897, when she
was honorably released, her successor
being Ann A. Thorley with Mary A. Arm-
strong and Lucy M. Jones first and second
counselors.
	During the past year quite a number of
the sisters belonging to the Cedar Society
have been called away by the hand of death
and their presence and their words of
counsel are alike missed. In January two
members, Margaret Unthank and Margaret
Froyd, both faithful good workers in our
Society every ready to assist and for a
number of years acting as teachers, depart-
ed from us, also Sister Amanda Rollo,
another good, faithful member soon follow-
ed. Death is inevitable, hence the necessity
of living not for ourselves alone but by do-
ing good whenever we have the opportuni-
ty, if only by a kind word.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at
Paragoonah in three months.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	At the request of our president, Sister
Sarah Barber, and also the members of this


[Column 1]
the Nottingham branch Relief Society, I
pen these few lines to you thinking perhaps
you would like to know how the Lord’s
vineyard is getting along here.
	Sister Barber desired me to tell you of a
social gathering we had at our meeting in
this the new year, which was held at the
home of our president. We had a very en-
joyable time all the evening. All the
members of the Relief Society were present,
also a few non-members. After supper
some of the sisters rendered some good
songs and speeches. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout and we all felt a renewed
determination to help each other as well as
the poor, and to do all we could to promul-
gate the Gospel.
	It would perhaps interest you to know
that a great many of the members in the
summer go out with the Elders and help
them in the singing, and their labors are
bearing fruit already. We have quite a
few investigators in the branch, some who are
going to be baptized at the first opportunity.
We have very good meetings on Sundays
and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit is
always present.
	I will close praying that the Spirit of the
Lord will always be with us to guide us in-
to the path of purity and right.
				Your sister in the Gospel
				EDITH CABLE, Sec. R. S.
	February 19, 1898.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Minutes of 21st ward Relief Society held
in the Society hall Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting
opened by singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Brother James Maxwell. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Counselor Martha B. Taylor pre-
sided.
	Elder L. John Nuttall offered some pre-
liminary remarks relative to the object and
purpose of the organization of the Relief
Society as contemplated by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and referred to the manner
of keeping accounts so as to consume as lit-
tle time as possible when assembled together
in meeting. Said while the distribution
of donations was an important part. still
there were higher motives and objects to be
attained by meeting together. We should
have lectures in the Society and endeavor to
use the time profitably, other than a few
bearing practically the same testimony over
and over again.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne, president of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, made
some very excellent remarks relative to the
purpose and organization of the Relief Soci-
ety, and said that the young as well as the
elderly people should associate themselves
with the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley said he was
pleased to meet with the sisters this after-
noon, and that the Society was a great as-
sistance to the Bishops in caring for the
poor and encouraged all to go on with the
work.
	Sister Ann O. Burt tendered her resigna-
tion as president and director of the 21st
ward Relief Society, the same was read by
Bishop M. S. Woolley. On motion the resig-
nation was unanimously accepted. On
motion Sister Frances L. Castleton was
elected a director of the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley read the resigna-
tion of Sister Annie M. Reynolds as director
and secretary of the Society, which was un-
animously accepted. On motion Sister
Mary A. Tuddenham was elected a director.
	Sister Jane Mulholland tendered her

[Column 2]
verbal resignation as director and treasurer.
On motion the resignation was unanimously
accepted. On motion Sister Helen V.
Lyon was elected a director.
	The following names were suggested by
Bishop M. S. Woolley: Eliza Barton as
president; Martha B. Taylor as first counsel-
or; Frances L. Castleton as second counsel-
or; Mary A. Tuddenham as secretary;
Helen V. Lyon as treasurer. On motion
the above named persons were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke relative to
the mission and organization of the Soci-
ety as contemplated by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and solciited the attendance of the
younger and middle aged women at the
meetings. Made mention of the fact that
Sister Eliza R. Snow was about thirty-
eight years of age when the Society was or-
ganized by the prophet.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said he had
been invited by the Bishop to attend this
meeting as there was contemplated changes
in the Society, and feeling an interest in all
the branches was present. He had been
called upon on several occasions to adjust
differences that existed between the Bishop
and officers of some branches of the Relief
Society. Thought the sisters should be
given all the liberty possible io magnify
their office. The sisters in return should
gather the strength of the Priesthood and
be in harmony with the Bishop and counsel-
ors of the ward. Cautioned the sisters in
their meetings relative to the gift of tongues
and thought we should confine ourselves
within the proper limits and seek for the
Spirit of God in our gatherings.
	Counselor H. J. Foulger referred to the
past labors of Sister Ann O Burt as presi-
dent, the difficulties the sisters met with
when first organized, and the means em-
ployed by her and Sister Allen in raising a
store on the block to benefit the Society.
Moved that a hearty vote of thanks be
tendered her for her past labors, and that
the blessing of the Almighty might rest up-
on her.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered Sis-
ters Reynolds and Mulholland for their
past efficient labors in the Society, all of
which were unanimous. The Doxology
was sung and meeting closed with benedic-
tion by Bishop M. S. Woolley.
	Meeting at the residence of Sister Eliza
Barton at 5.30 p. m. Sister Barton through
illness was unable to attend the meeting at
the Society hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN'S office building is to be erect-
ed in St. Louis. The offices will be rented
to business women or to people having busi-
ness with women.


[Column 1]
