[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday afternoon a meeting was
held in Spring City, Sister Mary Frantzen
presiding. Bishop Allred was present and
made some remarks after the sisters had all
spoken, expressing great interest in the Re-
lief Society and the Latter-day work as a
whole.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD who visited Utah
during the last year and gave her original
entertainments in several places and spoke
in the large Tabernacle in this city on the
Sunday before her departure for the East,
after visiting Toronto, Canada, New York
City and London, sailed from Marseilles on
the steamer “Midnight Sun,” going via
Sicily, Athens, Constantinople, the Holy
Land, Egypt and Malta. No word has
been received of her plans while absent that
we are aware of; she is registered as an
eminent lecturer along with several divines
and professors.
	PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG and
Sister Emily S. Richards of this city went
to Ogden and attended the Relief Society
conference of Weber Stake held on Thurs-
day, March 10, in that city, Sister Jane S.
Richards presiding. There was a goodly
attendance from various parts of the county
and an excellent spirit manifest. The
work in that Stake seems to be rapidly pro-
gressing and the deepest interest is appar-
ent in all the gatherings.
	THE Relief Society conference of Sanpete
Stake was held in Ephraim on Friday,
March 11th and on Saturday morning,
March 12, President Mary A. Hyde presid-
ing. Visitors from this city were Sisters
E. B. Wells and Annie T. Hyde. President
Canute Peterson attended the three sessions
of the conference and President J. T. D.
McAllister was present at the morning ses-
sion on Friday. There were sisters from
most of the settlements in the country, not-
withstanding the cold, stormy weather.
At Ephraim we attended a meeting of the
Primary Association and were much grati-
fied with the interesting program and beau-
tiful children assembled. The young girls 
in charge seemed to love their work and to


[Column 1]
have been successful in gaining the love of
the children.
	A VERY pleasant social was given in the
14th ward Assembly hall in honor of
Brother Ezra Stevenson on the evening of
the 24th of March, previous to his depart-
ure for New Zealand, this being his second
mission to that far off land. Appreciating
his faithfulness in the performance of his
duties, the members of the ward and his
many friends united in the effort to show
their great esteem for him. Hirini Whanuga, 
the Maori chief and family lent their pre-
sence for the occasion. The room was
tastefully decorated with ferns and banners,
the one at the head of the hall bearing the
inscription, “Long live our Superinten-
dent,” another at the side reading, “Your
many friends wish you God speed on your
journey.” An excellent program was
rendered, after which refreshments were
served by the young ladies. All felt to say
“God bless Brother Ezra Stevenson.”
	UTAH has been favored of late with visits
from Governors of other states; the Govern-
or of Utah of whom the people are justly
proud, has had an opportunity to extend
hospitality and welcome to these distinguish-
ed visitors,and maintain the hospitable char-
acter Utah has always been credited with in
the past. Governor Adams and wife of 
Colorado and Governor Richards and wife
of Wyoming were in Salt Lake City at the
same time’ and it was fully expected that
Governor Stonenberg of Idaho would join
the party here, but he did not come. A
dinner at the Alta Club for the Governors
their friends and colleagues, and a lunch-
eon at Col. Clayton’s for the ladies of the
party and other local ladies was a part of
the program of entertainment, a trip to 
Saltair and a reception at the Knutsford
were also features of their sojourn.
	MORE recently still Governor Hastings of
the great state of Pennsylvania, accompan-
ed by his wife and daughter and District
Attorney McCormick wife and daughter,al-
so Senator Cochran wife and daughter, who
had been touring in the West, paid Salt 
Lake City a brief visit and were shown the
principal interesting places etc. The
Governor and his staff escorted the party to
the Tabernacle, the President’s office where
they met Presidents Woodruff and Can-
non of the L. D. S. Church, and to Fort
Douglas where they were welcomed with
military honors and music, also a trip to
Saltair, Col. Kent and party joining with the
Governor and his staff and Attorney General
Bishop with invited guests from the city,
making quite a pleasant party. Col. Kent
kindly furnished musicians from the Fort
which added much to the enjoyment of the
party while at the pavilion, and made the
trip still more interesting.
	ON Sunday evening and Monday
morning meetings were held in Fairview
though the weather was most unfavorable,
yet the people came in large numbers.
At Fairview we were delighted to meet once 
more Sister Mary A. Pitchforth who has 
presided over the Relief Society there from
its first organization. She is very greatly
beloved; at present she is very feeble and
looks frail, but her courage is sublime and
her faith in the work is firm and steadfast.
At Fairview we met with two young men
from the city who were traveling on busi-
ness Elders Melvin D. Wells and Brigham
T. Cannon, the latter just home recently

[Column 2]
from a mission to Germany. They attended
the Relief Society meeting on Sunday eve-
ning and bore a good testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. During the trip all
around President M. A. Hyde, who is near-
ly eighty-two years of age, kept up wonder-
fully and seemed equal to the responsibili-
ties resting upon her in her office and call-
ing; in fact she seemed to improve as we
traveled from place to place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


