[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 12. | Author: Unknown]

	SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 12.

	Opening hymn “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Prayer by Prof. Newton Noyes.
	President M. A. Hyde expressed her
pleasure at seeing so many young ladies
present, and urged them to attend the meet-
ings of the Relief Society. Warned them
against the evils that are abroad in the land
and told them to guard their virtue as a
precious gem.
	Stake Counselor Abbie Shoemaker was
also pleased to see the girls. Exhorted the
sisters to greater faith and humility, and
urged them to teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, especially faith.
Said mothers should warn their children
against the temptations that beset the
young.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was the next
speaker. She referred to the pleasure she
had experienced the day before in visiting
the Primary. Said it was necessary that

[Column 2]
the young ladies attend the meetings of the
Relief Society, and dwelt at some length on
the subject of love and charity as a means
of binding Satan, as he would no longer
have any influence over the Latter-day
Saints. Said there was no dividing line
between the Relief Society and the Young
Ladies, that they were mother and daugh-
ter. Related some incidents which had oc-
cured on President Woodruff’s birthday,
notably a vision which he had seen similar
to that of John the Revelator concerning
the judgments of the last days.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Cox thanked the
young ladies for responding to the invita-
tion to be present; also thanked the various
Relief Society presidents for their prompt-
ness in responding to every call from the
Stake presidency. Compared the faith and
belief of the Latter-day Saints with that of
the different Christian churches, and by
way of illustration referred to a funeral
which she had attended where a Presbyter-
ian minister had officiated. Exhorted the
sisters to renewed diligence in subscribing
for the “Exponent,” that it may have the
necessary support to continue its publication.
	Sister Wells also expressed her pleasure
at meeting with the young ladies. Said
they could not fail to be benefited, and said
that a spirit had manifested itself in
some localities among the young people that
the Relief Society was an old fogy institu-
tion, but that it was an altogether wrong
impression and that the experience of the
older sisters was of great value to the
younger generation, and that the Relief
Society was at the head of all the other
associations. Explained some of the diffi-
culties surrounding the publication of the
“Exponent” unless it was liberally pat-
ronized. Gave some of her experiences in
early Relief Society work, and dwelt upon
the necessity of the Relief Society owning
property and storing grain. Said that it
was very necessary that the sisters pray for
Sister Zina Young as she had great re-
sponsibilities.
	President Hyde blessed the congregation
with a mother’s blessing, and urged the
young sisters to be diligent in the things of
the Gospel.
	President Peterson said he had been more
interested in the teachings of the sisters than
ever, hoped they would come again soon.
Said the sisters had built up the kingdom
as much as the brethren, and the wives of
the missionaries were performing as great a
work as the missionaries themselves. Felt
that he could talk for hours if time would
permit.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by President Peterson.
