[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON has | Author: Unknown]

	MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON has
published a book of reminiscences of her
long and eventful life under the taking title
of “Eighty Years and More.” Mrs. Stan-
ton has dedicated the book to Susan B.
Anthony, her steadfast friend for half a
century.
	The author’s vivid descriptions of
places and people as well as incidents are
given in a charming style and true to nature
and to facts, told in such a characteristic
way that one is impressed with the matter
because it is so natural as to appeal direct to
the heart of the reader,
	Mrs. Stanton was born at Johnstown, N.
Y., and was the daughter of Daniel Cady,
a distinguished lawyer and judge—and who
was elected to Congress the year of the little
Elizabeth’s birth. In the book she writes of
the fact thus: “Perhaps the excitement of
a political campaign, in which my mother
took the deepest interest, may have had an
influence on my prenatal life and given me
the strong desire that I have always felt to
participate in the rights and duties of
government.”
	Mrs. Stanton’s mother was Margaret
Livingston, the daughter of Colonel James
Livingston who was active in the war of the
Revolution, and was stationed at West
Point when Arnold made the attempt to be-
tray that stronghold into the hands of the
enemy. “In the absence of General Wash-
ington and his superior officer he took the
responsibility of firing into the Vulture, a
suspicious looking British vessel that lay at 
anchor near the opposite bank of the Hud-
son river. It was a fatal shot for Andre the
British spy, with whom Arnold was then
consummating his treason.” The vessel
thus disabled hastened away leaving Andre
with his papers to be captured while Arnold
made his escape through the lines before
his treason was suspected.
	Mrs. Stanton’s chapter on Motherhood is
one of the sweetest in her book, so perfectly
natural that every mother who has had a
similiar experience, (and there are many)
will read it with intense interest and say
“exactly so.” All along the pages are
names familiar to the public—poets, philos-
ophers, heroes, editors, reformers both men
and women. One chapter devoted to
Susan B. Anthony is delightfully full of the
originality so like this beautiful Quaker
spinster. Mrs. Stanton quotes Lord Bacon’s
saying of unmarried men and adds it is
equally applicable to women, and gives this
grand culmination to the thought:

[Column 2]
	“The world has ever had its vestal vir-
gins, its holy women mothers of ideals
rather than men; its Marys, as well as its
Marthas, who, rather than be busy house-
wives, preferred to sit at the feet of divine
wisdom, and ponder the mysteries of the
unknown. All hail to Maria Mitchell,
Harriet Hosamer, Charlotte Cushman, Alice
and Phebe Carey, Louisa Alcott, Dr. Elizabeth
Blackwell, Frances Willard and Clara Bar-
ton! All honor to the noble women who
have devoted earnest lives to the intellectual
and moral needs of mankind!”
	Mrs. Stanton describes graphically her
“First speech before the Legislature,” read-
ing it to her father, his views, his wonder
at her pathetic periods knowing her own,
life had been a happy one, comments of the
newspapers, ridicule of men and women,
frivolous objections, the divine patience re-
quired to reply, and so on. “On one oc-
casion when addressing the legislature some
of the ladies in congratulating me, inquired
in a deprecating tone, ‘What do you do
with your children?’ ‘Ladies,’ I said, ‘it,
takes me no longer to speak than you to
listen; what have you done with your chil- 
dren while you have been sitting here? But
to answer your question I never leave my
children to go to Saratoga, Washington,
Newport, or Europe, or even to come here.
They are at this moment with a faithful
nurse at the Delevan House, and having
completed my mission we shall return home
together.”
	One of Mrs. Stanton’s remarks regarding
American women may strike home to young
women, she says: “When I see so many of
our American women struggling to be
artists, who cannot make a good loaf of
bread or a palatable cup of coffee I think of
what Theodore Parker said when art was a
craze in Boston. ‘The fine arts do not in-
terest me so much as the coarse arts, which
feed, clothe, house and comfort people. I
would rather be a great man like Franklin
than a Michael Angelo—nay, if I had a son
I should rather see him a machanic, like
the late George Stephenson in England’
than a great painter like Rubens who only
copied beauty.”
	Mrs. Stanton in commenting upon her
birthday celebration in New York City at
eighty years did not forget among other
gifts the one from the women of Utah, the
onyx and silver ballot box and the accom-
panying address. There are so many ex-
cellent things in the book that all women
and men too should read, that we feel sure
the volume will have a large sale. The
portraits are very interesting and for the
comfort of elderly people we are happy to
state the type is large and clear. The book
contains 468 pages and eleven portraits. It
is dedicated to Susan B. Anthony. We have
not perused it half enough yet but have
already, though only skimming through its
pages, noticed many charming paragraphs,
and withal its simple, chatty style recom-
mends it most pleasantly without further en-
comuim.


