[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A STRONG TESTIMONY. | Author: Unknown]

A STRONG TESTIMONY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	AFTER reading in the "Woman's Ex-
ponent" of the goodness of our Heavenly
Father manifested towards the women of
Utah, it causes my heart to long for the
time to come when I can be with them and
enjoy the same blessings. The Saints here
in England enjoy many blessings for which
they are very thankful, but they know
there are blessings in Zion that they cannot
have here.
	I belonged to the Church of England for
thirty years, and endeavored in my weak
way to follow out its teachings. I did not
have a strong enough foundation for my
faith, and hence it was too weak to bring
me joy and happiness. I remember how I
used to ponder over in my mind the time of
our beloved Savior and His Apostles, and
wonder to myself why we were not privi-
leged to enjoy the same blessings that they
enjoyed in those days. How strange! Is it
possible the Savior would bestow upon His
children in those days all these promised
blessings and then neglect us who are just
as devoted as they were? These thoughts
often passed through my mind and caused
me to entertain the idea that the church I
had belonged to for so long was not identi-
cal with the Church Jesus established while
here upon the earth.
	In consequence of this I began to feel
unsettled and wondered why such should
be the case. I then began to read and
pray, that I might learn something more of
the true church of Christ, and for over two
years I went from church to church in
search of the one that most resembled the
one established by the Savior. I continued
doing this until I became almost discouraged
but am thankful to say the hand of Provi-
dence was over me, and I was led to a fam-
ily of Latter-day Saints who invited me to
attend their meetings. This led to an in-
vestigation of what they taught, and in a
short time I learned the great reason for all
the different sects of Christianity being void
of the "gifts and blessings" that character-
ized the Primitive church. I learned of
the great apostacy that had swept over the
earth, and how the Lord in consequence of
this had taken from the midst of His people
the everlasting Gospel and all the gifts and
blessings which were enjoyed by those who

[Column 2]
complied with its principles.
	I remember how the remarks of the
Elders would impress themselves upon my
mind when refering to the restoration of
the Gospel and its gifts and blessings.
What faith true men have, I thought. They
promise me every blessing my heart has de-
sired for so many years past if I will go
down into the waters of baptism and re-
ceive a remission of my sins. They then
promise me the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands, which shall be my instructor
and comforter through life. These great
and glorious promises deserve my strict at-
tention. This was the first time in my life I
had ever been promised the same blessings
and privileges that were enjoyed by the
Former-day Saints, and I assure you my
heart leaped for joy. I almost feared the
promises too great to be true; but today I
have a testimony which I have received
from God in consequence of my throwing
aside my pride and obeying the sacred prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel. The
power of the Priesthood manifested under
the hands of His authorized servants upon
my little children has been sufficient to con-
vince the whole world, if they would but
lay aside their prejudice and seek the Spirit
of the Lord to guide them into the only
true path of life and salvation.
	I remember of being so low in sickness
on one occasion that the doctor had
given me up to die, but the Elders came in
and laid hands upon me, and before their
hands were taken off my head all swelling
disappeared and the pain left me. Not
many weeks ago my husband met with a
serious accident while at work in the coal
pit, some of his bones being squeezed out of
place. People who saw him and under-
stood what he had passed through ex-
pressed themselves as believing him to be
in such a condition that he would never be
able to work any more. Again the power
of the Lord was manifested. Just as soon
as he was brought home the Elders laid
their hands upon him and anointed him
with oil; in a week he was back at work
again.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the year 1880, and dur-
ing that time all the blessings promised me
by the Elders whom I first met have been
granted.
	May the blessings of the Lord shine up-
on the women of Utah, and make them
bright and shining lights is the prayer of
Your sister in the Gospel,
JANE WILLIAMS.
Lancashire, England, Feb. 28, 1898.


EVERY goal in England and Wales now
has a Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society
working in connection with it.
	THE REAL TROUBLE.—When her Majes-
ty the Queen was at Balmoral some time
ago she visited an aged cottager, and on
leaving said, “You will now, I hope, be no
longer afraid of me, and I shall expect you
to pay me a visit.” “Ah ma’am,” the old
woman replied, “its not yersel’ I’m fricht-
ened at; it’s them gran’ servants!”


