[Vol18 | July 1931 | Sequence: 16a | Category: Article | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field 
Swedish Mission: The office is in receipt of a most interesting history of the Swedish Mission Relief Societies.

In the
beginning of the year 1930, instructions
were sent by Sister Leah D.
Widtsoe, president of the European
Mission Relief Societies, that an
historical record was to be kept of
thq Relief 'Society work accomplished
in the Swedish Mission, the
history to begin on January 1, 1930.
It includes the happenings of the
different events of historical value.
Month by month these happenings
were recorded in a specially bound
book, to be kept for all future reference.
This record shows that fifteen
Relief Societies were organized
in the Swedish Mission, named after
the places where the branch organization
exists. The plan of organization
followed was in harmony
with that of the Relief Society, viz.,
a president, two counselors, a secretary-
treasurer, an organist and chorister,
a class leader, also the necessary
district teachers, and a regular
roll of the various members. In
some few cases the organization was
not quite complete, due to lack of
members, but a uniform history and
record book will be kept in the mission.
Sister Signe L. Hulterstrom,
has presided over the Swedish Mission
Relief Society, since arriving
in the mission on November 28,
1927. The meetings held in the mission
have followed the general plan,
with a uniform lesson course just as
far as it is possible.
On March 17, 1930, a special program
was given in commemoration
of the organization of the Relief
Society in the year 1842. Reports
were received from the branches of
the mission that a most wonderful
time was experienced during the
exercises of this special event. Several
inspiring talks were given, and
fine songs and music appropriate to
the occasion were rendered.
Everything the Relief Society
sisters have done during the year
1930, was with the centennial
thought in view. In honor of the
one hundredth anniversary of the
Church, the sisters took an active
part in the different programs, and
rendered all the assistance possible
to the brethren. They decorated the
halls, prepared food and refreshments,
and contributed much towards
the success of the centennial
meetings.
The Spring Jubilee Conferences
were held on the different Sundays
in the five districts of the mission,
these in addition to the regular
Relief Society meetings. Upon these
special occasions pageants were
presented, dialogues were given,
and other special numbers rendered.
The attendance was unusually
good. On April 6, a special
branch conference was held in every
branch in the mission. At these
conferences the special message from
the First Presidency of the Church
was read. The Relief Society sisters
were active in all of these programs.
One day of particular interest was
the celebration on the 24th of July.
This in far away Sweden, gave a
touch of home to the missionaries,
and the meetings were held with
special commemorative exercises.
In all of this, it is felt that the
Relief Society is a wonderful aid to
the mission branches. Bazaars have
been held, much actual charity work
has been done, and everybody wascheered up by the sisters at the time
of their meetings and in their special
visits.
Northwestern States Mission {Dillon
Branch) : THE above picture is of a cast
"The Dillon Sewing Circle,"
which was presented along with a
musical program, following a banquet,
to which 80 guests were invited.
This was in honor of the
89th anniversary of the founding of
versary. A brief review of the history
and development of the organization
was given by the president of
the Society. The Literary Department
was represented by a dramatization
of Oscar Wilde's story "The
Selfish Giant," fifteen children of
the Primary Asociation assisting.
Social welfare work was demonstrated
by a welfare scene. A local
doctor, assisted by a nurse, attended
a sick child, and a Relief Society
welfare worker delivered food and the Relief Society. The Dillon
branch in the Northwestern States
mission is a small one, but a steady
growth is marked, and with the
spirit of willingness to serve, and
capable members, the organization
is carried on most successfully.
There is an enrolled membership of
17.
Northwestern States Mission (Seattle
Branch) : ONSunday, March 15, the Seattle,
Washington, Relief Society of
the Northwestern States Mission,
presented a program in commemoration
of the Relief Society anniclothing
for the mother and her
three children. The Theology department
took its theme from a poem
by Ellen L. Jakeman, which appeared
in the March 1928 Relief
Society Magazine, "This is the Day
(A Plea to the Lamanite Sisters)."
Eight sisters dressed in Indian costumes
were in the background seated
around a camp fire in front of a
tepee. A mixed quartette sang, "Oh
Stop and Tell Me Red Man," and a
Lamanite sister responded, giving
the "Response of the Lamanite
Sisters," by S. T. Brimhall Foley,
which appeared in the February
1931 Magazine. In this scene the

THE DILLON SEWING CIRCLE"

Lamanite sisters came forward, leaving
their blankets and now wearing
brightly colored dresses and shoes,
seated themselves at the front of the
stage. The last scene represented
Eliza R. Snow composing the hymn,
"O My Father." Accompanying
this scene was soft violin and piano
music. The portrayal of the composition
of this beautiful hymn was
inspired by the study of past literary
lessons of the Church hymns and
composers. The Branch choir and
an organ soloist furnished appropriate
music during the program.
Eastern States Mission (Washington,
D. C. Branch) :
ON February 28, 1931, in Washington,
D. C, the Washington
branch of the Relief Society celebrated
its fifth birthday by a most
successful reception at the home of
Senator and Mrs. Reed Smoot. In
the receiving line, and those who
assisted in serving during the evening,
were Relief Society officers,
past presidents and charter members
of the organization. Wonderful
music, both vocal and instrumental,
added greatly to the enjoyment of
the evening. There were over 200
guests at this happy event. A large
birthday cake, made by Sister V. B.
Isbel, was in reality a collection box
for voluntary contributions. Donations
ranged from $10.00 to a few
cents, and the total amound raised
was $115.00. The expense of the
event was comparatively small. The
following picture is of the birthlay
cake.
Central States Mission (Independence
Branch) :
THE secretary of the Independence
Branch of the Central
States Mission, writes as follows
:
"Our branch is not so very large,
only numbering about 30. Of these
there are not so many who can attend
our meetings, but the sisters who do
come are very energetic, and are able
to do a lot of work. We serve dinners
at our conferences twice a year,
and make our money to pay the expenses
of the Society, and to care
for the sick. The Society is diligent
in looking after the needy. So far 

SISTER V. B. ISHBEL
holding the Cake used as a Constitution Box

this year we have already paid out
about $60.00 to the poor. That is a
large sum considering the few people
who are here engaged. We hold
our meetings regularly each Tuesday.
The second Tuesday we meet
early, and serve a covered dish
luncheon, then quilt for the remainder
of the day. We intend to
carry this part of our work on all
during the summer."
"On March 13th, we had an entertainment,
when we presented the
beautiful pageant "The Guardianship
of Life." This was under the
direction of Sister Vesa C. Marler.
There was a good attendance, and
we were able, with the returns from
this, to entertain our members and
their escorts at our banquet on
March 17th. Upon this event we
had a wonderful program and a very
fine dinner, and entertained about 65
guests. The program included a
poem written by our own sister
Isabelle Ireland, also a song written
by her which was appropriate to the
occasion.
"We are very fortunate here in
Independence, to have with us most
of the year, our dear Sister Charlotte
T. Bennion, who is president of the
Relief Societies of the Central States
Mission. Wle appreciate greatly her
words of encouragement and guidance."

—Pictorial California, All Year Club Photo.
Straining trees, their roots buried deep in the rich beach soil, defy the wind
and rain near the Palos Verdes Hills of California. The grasses along the
roadway bow their heads before the wind, but the trees, heads erect and branches
held up to the breezes defy the elements. They have sturdy, strong arms.
