Batching By Caroline Eyring Miner "BATCHERS" at Colleges have been more numerous the past few years than they have ever been before. No doubt each mother who reads this article knows a special reason why. Depression has stolen the family purse but not its generous supply of ambition, and boys and girls with ambition, but without employment or money, make a compromise between remaining at home in idleness and attending college in a leisurely fashion, by "batching." "Batching" is an unromantic name for the adventurous undertaking of living away from home and being one's own cook and bottle-washer. Most anyone is eligible for this adventure. However, between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five it may be observed in its truest form. With a few provisions from home, consisting of some canned fruit, a supply of eggs and butter, a few loaves of bread, and a generous supply of home-baked cookies, together with an insignificant number of dishes and kettles and personal linen, and with very little money, the average "batcher"' leaves his comfortable parental home and sets up in "batching" headquarters in some College town. He has been instructed time and time again by his anxious mother that he must take good care of himself; he must keep his place warm; he must take time to cook what he needs. And he proceeds immediately to disobey everyone of her ten commandments; not wilfully, but because of the force of circumstances. I speak as a "batcher" with four years' experience, and I speak in defense of the offender. I know he becomes ill; I've actually seen cases of chronic appendicitis aggravated to the point of acuteness under "batching" fare; I've seen pneumonia develop and one severe case of mastoiditis. And as for colds, they are too numerous to mention. But he, the "batcher," cannot help it. Time is an item in the first place. When a student carries a full curricular and extra-curricular load, he doesn't have the time to keep house in any fashion worthy of the name. You know how your boy or girl stays in bed in the mornings at home. Well, he does it just as consistently or more so while batching and in consequence he doesn't even have time to make a fire or get breakfast. So he does without either. At noon there is time for only a cold bite and at night, if there isn't a big social planned to save him, he is very likely to cook and eat enough potatoes and gravy and meat to founder an ordinary hard-working man. And so the routine goes. As long as the provisions from home last, there is pretty good fare, but shopping takes time and money, neither of which is plentiful, and it is neglected. "What am I to do about it?" the anxious mother asks. "He knows better than to do the way he does and there isn't money for him to board." Of course he knows better and the only thing he can do is to "batch" if he goes to school at all. Just don't worry about him. Keep advising him if you wish but don't worry about him if he doesn't follow your advice. It isn't going to hurt him very seriously, and how he will appreciate home and mother when the "batching" days are over!