Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Carbon Stake AS the time approaches for our Magazine Drive, the splendid efforts of the sisters during the past year come to our attention. The picture below is of the Helper Ward Relief Society, which staged the delightful little play, "The Spirit of the Magazine." This was presented to a large and enthusiastic audience of Relief Society workers and friends. The cast of the play was composed entirely of Relief Society members who acquitted themselves with great credit if the comments from the community are to be taken as evidence. The play not only was helpful and entertaining, but it did much to help in the Relief Society Magazine subscription campaign. Northern States Mission ANOTHER evidence of the fact that the Relief Society work is a great factor in the Missions comes from the Northern States. Recently an order for twenty-seven copies of Handicrafts for Every Woman, was received. The enthusiastic and devoted leadership in this mission is most anxious to give to the sisters the advantages that arise from the THE SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE—HELPER WARD use of this fine book, along with all the other educational programs offered by the Relief Society. British Mission AMONG the very delightful callers at the office during the Summer was Sister Trixie Cussans, President of the Belfast Branch of the Irish District Relief Society. Sister Cussans, in her visit to Utah gave a very fine report of Relief Society work among the Irish sisters. Many young women, non-members of the Church, participate in the work. 642 Woodruff Stake (Diamondville Ward) THE picture below is interesting as it is so typical of the spirit of Relief Society, including, as it does, the mature sisters who have had the experience of life and the young women who approach it with courage, faith and hope. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "To satisfy a need common to us all—a need for a greater appreciation of the spiritual values of life, the Music Department of the Tooele Stake Relief Society has inaugurated a study of the origins and themes of our Latter-day Saint Hymns. Songs of worship express the thoughts and aims of man in his ideal DIAMONDVILLE, WARD Tooele Stake THE following quotation from the Tooele Stake Chorister and Organist, Sisters Lizzie Barrus and Ada Higginson, needs no explanation: state, and as such, help to elevate and anchor our thoughts, and through our thoughts, our actions to the more lasting joys of living. "We stimulate discussion and research by preparing a questionnaire on some of our hymns for each Union Meeting. We hope that the uplifting influence of the literary gems embodied in the words and the soul-satisfying expressions found in their wonderful melodies will become an integral and permanent influence in our lives." Timpanogos Stake ANOTHER evidence of the great interest in the scripture reading project comes from the Timpanogos Stake. The delightful pictures which appear tell the story of the beautiful pastoral—Ruth, which was part of a program given on January 22, 1935, in honor of the Visiting Teachers of the Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. In this stake there are 145 teachers, and all have made 100% visits the last four years. The program consisted of community singing, ladies' quartette, piano and 1. Naomi and her family as they journey to Moab. 2. The kinsman gives Boaz the right to buy the property of Naomi and to marry Ruth. Violin selections, and six dramatized Bible stories from the Old Testament, one given by each of the six wards. These were well presented and the staging and costuming very attractively worked out. Three hundred were in attendance at this convention in the afternoon, after which refreshments were served. Four hundred Primary children then assembled and enjoyed a review of the Bible stories in pageant form that had been so well prepared and presented to the Relief Society members. Big Horn Stake A VERY splendid report of the activities of the Big Horn Stake came to the office recently. Reports of the past have indicated how enthusiastically this Relief Society puts into effect the activities sponsored. Sunday, May 12, three members Pastoral Ruth presented by Timpanogos Stake of the stake board accompanied two representatives of the Seventies Quorum to Ten Sleep to attend a Sacrament meeting, traveling a return distance of two hundred and thirty miles. The Relief Society officers were given an opportunity to explain the purpose and function of this organization. At the close of the Sacrament meeting President Hazel N. Boyack presided at a meeting of sixteen women interested in effecting an organization. The requirements for such an organization were presented by the Stake officers after which the sisters expressed unanimous desire to have an organization. The officers were then sustained and set apart under the direction of President Partridge. A young mother, Doris Rice, is the president. Ten Sleep was formerly a part of the Worland Branch. There are about sixty-seven Latter-day Saints residing in this locality and this is their first auxiliary organization. There were eight organizations in the stake seven years ago when the present board was appointed, and there are now fifteen. St. Joseph Stake THE Layton Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake recently carried on a very successful project. After the literary lesson on biography, the teacher asked each member to write a sketch of her mother. They were to be brief word pictures portraying character. Thirteen women responded. The meeting where extracts from the sketches were used was most interesting. While our space does not permit our printing these sketches, we commend the teacher and the writers for successfully carrying out this valuable project THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON -: President AMY BROWN LYMAN.-:: -: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER -: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND -::: -: General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B, Knight Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder: Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman 

Vol. XXII OCTOBER, 1935 No. 10 EDITORIAL Campaign For Peace THE Women's International League has announced that it is launching a world-wide campaign for peace. A People's Mandate to Governments to end war will be circulated throughout the world. The campaign was opened on Jane Addams' birthday, September 6, 1935, when it was expected meetings would be held simultaneously all over the world. Following these meetings the campaign for signatures will be carried on. It is hoped that at least 12,000,000 signatures will be obtained in the United States. "The Mandate calls on Governments having renounced War in the Kellogg-Briand Pact to stop preparations for war, use existing agencies to settle present conflicts, and secure international action for disarmament and economic cooperation." Mass meetings, conferences, group meetings??every kind of activity at which public opinion can be aroused and signatures secured?will be undertaken. Well-known speakers of the Women's International League will be sent to every possible country. The work will be carried on through organizations. Every possible group, labor union, church groups, women's clubs, business men's clubs, peace organizations, college organizations, political organizations. Etc., will be asked to cooperate. All should work together to maintain peace. Narcotics Education THE Foundation for Narcotics Research and Information reports that great strides toward the proper education of high school and college students in the grave dangers of narcotics, principally beverage alcohol, are being made by the Foundation. Professor Irving Fisher of Yale University, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, has enlisted the support of more than 5,000 high school principals in a campaign undertaken only a few weeks ago to have narcotics education included in the 1935-36 curricula. Professor Fisher suggests in a letter to 23,000 principals that the text book "Narcotics and Youth Today," by Robert E. Corradini, be used. Through funds of the Foundation it is possible for these principals to have a free copy of the book. "Narcotics and Youth Today" was published by the Foundation for the use of schools and colleges. It deals with every phase of the narcotics problem. Alcohol, which has falsely been considered as chiefly stimulant, is shown to be actually a depressant giving only the illusion of stimulation through first paralyzing the governing or control functions of the body. The Foundation realizes that never before has there been greater need for accurate information on the narcotic question. We quote the following paragraphs from "Narcotics and Youth Today." "Youth has the right to demand of scientific research the truth, clear and impartial, as to the findings on alcohol and other narcotic drugs. This book has been written to meet that need. "The coming of the machine and the release of tremendous power units of energy into the hands of men technically unprepared, and of some temperamentally unfit, are creating problems with which no previous generation has had to cope. "Young people today must face the narcotics question, especially the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE alcohol problem. It is inescapable. Advertising?much of it misleading ?is facing us in the press, in magazines, entering our homes over the air and filling the screen of our amusement centers. What attitude should the young people take on this question? On the one hand, there are prejudices and the traditions of thousands of years, handed down from generation to generation. On the other, we have the new knowledge which comes from our research laboratories almost daily. Often tradition and science do not coincide. "The intelligent, scientific attitude of our youth today should be to face the narcotics question in the light of our present-day knowledge. It should determine the course of future action by what it has learned in school about nutrition, chemistry, physiology, biology, psychology and all the other sciences which put at the disposal of the modern student such a wealth of information, the like of which no previous generation has ever known. "A totally drunken person is not very dangerous as he cannot operate modern machines. If he attempts to operate one, he can be 'spotted' immediately. "The really dangerous man today is the moderate drinker who is only slightly under the influence of alcohol. He is quite capable of starting and operating a machine, certainly an automobile, but in an emergency he may miscalculate the speed of an approaching car, or the distance between himself and a pedestrian... The drinker, overestimating his ability, will take chances which may end in a fatal accident. "The effects on the nervous system after an ordinary drink will last for several hours. The average individual cannot consider himself normal for several hours after a EDITORIAL drink of alcohol, even though he may not feel any particular effect."