A Personnel Department for the Home By Leola Seely NOT all girls are happy on entering college, but—they could be, said Nettie Neff Smart, Dean of Women of Brigham Young University, in a recent interview. And from her years of observation and personal acquaintance with the problems of hundreds of girls Dean Smart suggested a workable plan through which all girls might enter college in confident anticipation of a joyous new life. What our girls need when they come to college is a broader and more secure foundation upon which to build the framework of the new lives they construct in college, Dean Smart believes. They need more conviction and assurance in their judgments as they make adjustments to their new environment. As a project for the New Year, in anticipation of the entrance into colleges of hundreds of girls next fall, Dean Smart offered this brief outline of her practical plan: A Family Personnel Department, corresponding to the Personnel Department of the University, could be established in each home. Its purpose would be to become acquainted with all the little quirks and twists in the individual natures of its members that make each a different and interesting being, and to adjust everyone's quirks to fit everyone's twists congenially. Father might be the head of the department with Mother as chief advisor. Each of the children would hold a responsible office, for this is one small unit of investigation and group instruction. Suppose we assign to Father the duty of studying the individual personalities in our family group. Perhaps this week he can point out a few good points in each personality that we would do well to strengthen, and suggest a few really practical ways for improving the one or two qualities which are not so admirable that he finds among us. Supplemented by a few simple rules formulated by Mother, telling us just what characteristics of personality will make us charming, well-bred, well loved girls, we have a summary of the individual personality of each of us to compare with the standard Mother puts up for attainment. For this week one of the girls, an older one, could consult a reliable source of information and find out in just what points college girls are negligent, and suggest a few items that all girls need to know when they enter a University. She will no doubt include such common rules as courtesy, consideration, honesty, reliability, responsibility. For this week it will be enough to discuss these first principles, courtesy and consideration. WHEN a girl comes to Brigham Young University, she finds a great many people willing and eager to help her to have a good time. They demand, however, that she be a refined girl, that she not make herself unpleasantly conspicuous by loud talking and laughing on the campus or streets that she respect the rights of other girls with whom she lives. Mothers who take girls into their homes as boarders or roomers expect those girls to be a happy addition to their homes. Consideration of the wishes of these housemothers, adherence to the standards they set up for their own families, appreciation of the efforts of housemothers to make things comfortable and pleasant for the girls, stamp a girl as being refined. Girls who are careless of these fine details which are so vital a part of that foundation which Dean Smart would have them build, find it hard to fit into the life of the University. Suppose we ask another of the girls at home to find out what ideals the University social life sets up. If we discuss these in our family circle we can determine a number of ways to adjust to them when we get to college. Perhaps our ideas about boys are the hardest for us to agree on. Our modern Mother will not impose ridiculously old-fashioned rules: she will advocate the refined and gracious atmosphere of pleasant companionship. She will probably tell us to bid our gentlemen friends good-night by twelve o'clock, not because that is the only possible hour, but because most of the fun there is can be squeezed in before that, and that first class comes so early in the morning! And besides, there are other nights. A whole nine months' worth of nights for enjoyment. Within the social groups of the campus the girls uphold high ideals. All have definite rules against such conduct as smoking or drinking. All sponsor a high standard of scholarship, sportsmanship, and loyalty. The girl who infringes on the rules is quietly eased out if she will not adjust. One other sister in our family group might look up the problems of study that a girl always faces when she enters college. What shall she study? Does she want a home? Most of our girls do, Dean Smart RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE confided. Almost all Mormon girls have that goal set as their objective, and that is as it should be. Should a girl study for a career? Why not? She is enriched for her own home life if, along with the fundamentals, she can develop a talent or two. As an expert of domestic art or domestic science, a student of education, music, or the arts, she builds a splendid addition to her ability to become a good wife and mother. And every girl should know some business, Dean Smart declared. All wives have household accounts that need intelligent attention. Should a career supplant all other activities? Dean Smart believes not. All the fine things that can be packed into one short lifetime, all the things that enrich, enlarge, and intensify our joy should go into that life, and college is over-flowing with all of these things. Girls are coming to college younger now than formerly. They need definite standards, reliable judgments of values, powers of discrimination, Dean Smart emphasized. These they must get at home before they come to college. On these rests their ability to adjust successfully and quickly to the new life. DEAN SMART believes that it would be a worthwhile project for every home, this New Year, to initiate a Personnel Department whose officers and members are Father, Mother, and the Children; whose purpose is to get acquainted with themselves; to help each other to develop those ideals and powers so necessary to a complete adjustment; and to lay that broad, secure foundation upon which to build a beautiful character, whose influence will exceed the limits of individual capacity and spill over into the lives of others,