Life's Medicines By Ezra J. Poulsen Life has a way of lifting us out of the deep vales of despondency by its own natural buoyancy. It constantly throws us new life lines, as the older ones break, or as we became confused and let go. Wise are we if we cooperate in these efforts at self rescue, for thereby may we keep our feet on the solid ground, and progress toward the hill tops of life. Often, to be sure, we sink back with a sigh, feeling that we need to be rescued from routine, sorrow, from sheer weariness with living. But at that moment we are challenged with new glimpses of beauty or truth—a picture, a landscape, the smiling countenance of a friend coming through the gate. Then who can deny the refreshing force that quickens our being? Thus life is very kind. When we would close our eyes and like the proverbial ostrich thrust our head beneath the sand, we are drawn back into the sunlight. Charles Lamb, in his delightful little essay, Dream Children, teaches us to find happiness even in sorrow. Sitting in his chair by the fireside, he permits us to go with him back through the fading years. Before him sit his children — his dream children, listening wonder-eyed to his winsome tales of boyhood and young manhood. As readers we follow, impressed by the author's warm, joyous humanity, set off by the rich, glowing tapestries of an English country side. Then swiftly comes the climax, revealing stark disillusionment — sorrow. Tears seem the only outlet for our poignant grief. Such is the way with life. There are moments when not a single ray of hope can struggle through the clouds of grief. Or at least this seems to be so. In reality, however, the ray of hope does arrive. It is as sure as the daylight that follows the darkness. Hence, as we turn again to Lamb, we catch something of his marvelous buoyancy; the spirit of mirth returns, and smiles drive away the tears. Charles Lamb, sitting by his fireside, yearning after his dream children, seems to symbolize life. Sorrow—and he knew sorrow as few of us have had to experience it—is the lot of humanity, yet beneath sorrow lies joy, the great underlying harmony of existence. Every shadow is eventually wiped out by the sunshine. The genial author of dream children seems to be saying, "After all it is glorious to be alive." It is important to realize that there is an element of happiness in all life situations. This truth is in the very essence of things. It can be discovered and cherished until it becomes a sesame to its possessor, opening all the closed doors of opportunity. To be happy in the midst of struggle, to see in disappointment the possibility for new conquest, to be responsive to the beauties of the commonplace—these are some of the ingredients from which we derive joy. Charles Lamb could wander through the most obscure streets of London, and find a wonderland of romance. That same wonderland awaits others who walk down the obscure side streets of life, provided they have eyes to see. Must we always believe people are 628 happy because they are rich, or powerful, because they are here rather than there, or because they were born lucky? This is putting too much reliance on mere externals, not enough in the soul of things. Yet the external world is teeming with the materials of happiness. If we can match the life without with reasonable responses from within, we are winners in the game of living. A young woman living in an attractive rural community was recently asked by a friend to name some of the more common wild flowers in her locality. She was dumbfounded to think anyone should be interested in such commonplaces. She had never noticed them. This incident illustrates one of humanity's most glaring oversights—the failure to see the perfection in God's creations. Possibly we need help. In this case we might seek the poets. Hand in hand with a Bryant, a Whitman, or a Wordsworth, we may find new life in the cool canyons and by the pleasant streams. We can go alone, but the poets make good interpreters as we struggle with the first simple monosyllables of nature's language. Under their direction we can learn the grandeur in every quaint by-way beneath the heavens. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Furthermore, if God is waiting in the solitude, he is even more easily found in the midst of the multitude. Thus to the extent that we take a wholesome interest in others, we again revive our own sinking spirits. We are rejuvenated the moment we see our own acts relieving the distress of others. This is the very genius of the Relief Society organization. The idea of dedicating one's self to the creation of the good neighborhood, will go far, if adhered to in practice, to lift us to the higher levels of joy. Satisfactions abound, then, in the land of people and things. The basic law of compensation guarantees a bright side to every situation. It is merely for us to seek endlessly those positions from which the best can be seen, and obtained. Life is a process of working to solve the mysteries of a complex and changing environment. We are in a mansion of many rooms. It takes a different key to open each room, but around us are a thousand keys. Books, poets, music, children, hobbies, service, are a few of the keys, each leading to a realm of wonder and enlightenment; then there is the master key— faith—which is the greatest of all.