Some people bear three kinds—all they have had, all they have now, and all they expect to have," Music By Kate M. Barker Music has always been an important part of our church service. The Prophet Joseph organized the first choir and was a regular attendant at rehearsals. He admonished the saints to cultivate as high a state of perfection in their music as the standard of the faith which he had brought was superior to sectarian religion. In revelation God speaks to man and in prayer man speaks to God. In song God comforts man and man expresses his undying trust in God. Thus song is both revelation and prayer. No Latter-day Saint group can sing "Come, Come Ye Saints" without being spiritually helped. It tells of God's promise to his people and of that people's sublime faith in God. Each generation as they sing it can recapture something of the strength and courage received by that band of pioneers and apply it to their own particular problems. The gospel is the Lord's plan to bring about the development and happiness of man. The church with its different organizations is the machinery for the realization of this plan. The Lord understands human nature. He knows what is needed for complete development and happiness. He knows that man has certain fundamental spiritual hungers—for peace and hope and communion with God. The church was organized to help satisfy these hungers. It is the center of true religious education. But religious education means more than to impart this logical information. A knowledge of God's laws and of his dealings with man are important, but it is even more important to have a close relationship to the Lord and a feeling of reverence for all things associated with him. For this longing to worship is a very fundamental spiritual hunger which must be satisfied and our churches to perform the highest service must help to satisfy it. Worship is a natural longing. In worship the soul of man is lifted up toward and into communion with the Infinite. "It is the divinity within us reaching up to the divinity above." Emerson says:— "'Tis certain that worship stands in some commanding relation to the health of man, to his highest powers, so as to be in some manner, the source of intellect." "In true worship man is at his best. It is the moment of clearest insight, highest aspiration and most devout consecration. For the time at least the best in one is in the ascendent and reaches out to God not only in longing but in willingness to do his will." In our very simple church services where we have no elaborate ritual, it is easy to neglect the worship. We have music, prayer and the sacrament. We have stressed the teaching side of our service as it pertains to teaching the laws of the gospel, but I am afraid we have not made the most of our opportunity for true worship in our music, and the Lord delights in the song of the righteous. 604 Someone has called a hymn "a little sermon in verse." "An echo of a great soul-giving lyrical expression to a truth apprehended through a high experience, in words that both use the common speech and transcends it." We all have feelings —feelings that to us are inexpressible. In our songs a poet has expressed these feelings. A hymn expresses a poet's experience higher than our own. He clothes it in words of beauty. Through the song we can express our feelings and gain a vision of and longing for the heights he has reached. "For a true hymn is conceived in the feelings, and is most often born from some poignant personal experience, and aims to awaken the feeling in others." But feeling must have its roots in understanding if it is to be more than mere excitement. Thus feeling and understanding must go hand in hand. Music in our services has a twofold purpose. It creates the desired spiritual atmosphere for the service. It stimulates the worshipful attitude and prepares the setting for the whole meeting. It is also a means of self-expression and opportunity to satisfy our spiritual hunger to worship—to pour out our hearts to God in praise and thanksgiving. For in the church services as in all of life all receiving and no giving means spiritual death. If listening is all we have to do at church we might enjoy a service over the air. But the fellowship of worship imparts a blessing that a radio service can never give. Group singing is a social experience. It is a spiritual fellowship and we receive much from the group. And here lies the opportunity for constructive worship. After a lesson or talk where our minds have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been stimulated, our emotions touched, the soul desires appropriate expression. We should understand the spirit of the song so we can really express our feelings. "I do not care how fine the tones are without the proper spirit, the song is worthless. Spirit, that is the word, without feeling it the singer cannot transmit it to others. It is the idea behind the song that gets it over." This does not mean we should not strive for fine tone and technique: Any offering to the Lord should be as beautiful as we can make it. The Lord at one time rebuked a people for not giving their best in offerings. How important it is then to learn the words of the songs, so as not to be a slave to the books but be free to pour out our spirit in love and thanksgiving. If we recognize that music is one of the most important parts of our service, because it means worship, then we realize the care that should be taken in choosing both the song and the musical instrument. The musician has a message for the congregation just as the speaker has, and should receive the same respect, attention and prayerful help. He is our mouthpiece and if we are one of the worshipers we should say in our hearts what he is expressing. The musicians should realize too that they have a great responsibility. They have not been asked to entertain, nor been given an opportunity to display a beautiful voice or skill in performance but have been honored in being given an opportunity to use their talent as spokesman for the group in expressing thanks, praise, and prayer to God in a fine spirit of worship. The music chosen should be such as will add to the spiritual atmosphere of the service. MUSIC We wish to feel that the one who thus expresses our devotion is just as sincere as the one who utters the prayer for the group, that he is joining us in worship. This spirit is disturbed when the musician leaves before the close of the service. Are there not enough musicians in our church that one need not accept two invitations for the same hour? There is a spiritual message in every church service. Just as the reception of the radio message is 605 clearer and finer when there is no static, so the reception of the spiritual message in the hearts of the people is finer and clearer the less disturbance there is. Cannot the Relief Society help to raise the standards of the music in all of our church services—in making of it a very dignified sublime part of the program—in making it—as it was meant to be—a pouring out of our hearts in worship? Such worship would be good for our souls.