Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP TRUE "All the poised balances of God would swerve, Did men not get the blessings they deserve; And all the rigorous scales of Fate would turn, Did men not get the punishments they earn." —Edwin Markham. Truth is the interpretation of life from the divine point of view. It is changeless and eternal. According to Dr. Frank Crane, "Truth is the logic of the universe; it is the reasoning of Destiny; it is the mind of God. And nothing that you can devise or discover can take its place." In Scientific Aspects of Mormonism, N. L. Nelson says: "Mormonism defines absolute truth to be 'things as they are, as they have been, and as they will be,' when interpreted by God." Jesus, speaking with his disciples in the temple, promised them, "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." John 8:32. And even as his disciples desired the freedom that comes from a knowledge of the truth, so do men in all ages. KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST Through the years, the question is repeated, What is truth? What is this power that shall liberate mankind from ignorance and fear and sin? Men have been searching for it since the dawn of time. They grope in the darkness for the precious white light of truth, that will lift humanity to a higher plane; that will make the world a safer, happier, better place in which to live. Down through the dim ages of the past they caught a gleam now and then. Some of these truths were recorded and preserved for those who would come after. From age to age, pages have been added to the book of wisdom that men might live by a greater light. But what is recorded by one generation as true, is often discarded by the next generation as untrue. Discoveries from year to year, continue to change the pages of science and philosophy. The test of a truth is that it works. But often it takes long periods of time to find out if it works. The scientist in his laboratory tries again and again, records his findings, and then begins all over. But he can not put all of life in the test tube. Sometimes what science has sought for years to find out, is given to an unlettered man, a mere boy, in one glorious flash. And in that one flash more truth is revealed than scholars have been able to evolve in hundreds of years. There is only one code of truth. It is applicable to all life, in every field of endeavor. A great scientist recently said that he recognizes truth, and reverences it equally as much, if he reads it in the rocks as if it comes from the lips of an inspired prophet. Back of all law is the Author of law. And as the ages roll He reveals to man, from generation to 615 generation, the light that seems to be sufficient unto his needs. Prophets and poets, teachers and leaders of men, the world over, are given greater light than others; in order that they may mark out paths for the multitude, and hold the torch high for those who are to follow. Their love for God's children and their all absorbing desire to better conditions, makes their need greater; and according to the greater need, they receive more generously from the source of all light. The Master's love for humanity rose to the most sublime height. He was ready to give his life for the salvation of mankind. That, perhaps, is the reason why he received more light than all other men. One of God's greatest gift to man is the monitor he has placed in each breast; that shall teach him what is true and what is false, that all his actions may be guided thereby. The truths that we need for our individual guidance are held in store for us, when our hearts are open to receive them. The revelation of truth, whether it be some great law for the guidance of a nation or the salvation of the human race, or whether it be a simple rule for the direction of one of God's humblest children; such revelation, comes only in answer to a deep sincere longing. There must be the desire. There must be the request. And the request must be more than a passive asking. It must be a willingness to search, to struggle, to wait, to pay the price. This is the requirement to the attainment of truth, and God's blessings generally. "When hands are idle, words are vain to move the stone. An aiding angel would disdain to work alone." 616 You remember the story of Hercules, who found the man's chariot caught in the mire. The man was praying for help, but putting forth no effort himself. Hercules' reply to his appeal for assistance was, "Have you, yourself, tried to move the chariot? Put your own shoulder to the wheel; God helps those who help themselves." Jacob wrestled all night with the Lord for the blessing he desired. And the Children of Israel cried long and loud unto him before he sent Moses as their deliverer. The Master gave the key to his disciples for the attainment of all blessings when he said, "And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you."—Luke 11:9. Does not the research worker seek, when he spends years in unknown climes in quest of truth? Does not the scientist knock, when he watches long hours under the searchlight? Have not men through the years, asked and received divine aid, in establishing the things which have most greatly benefited the race? Untiring endeavor brings its reward. The years will repay every high effort. But remember, "Struggle precedes mastery." There are certain fundamental laws that govern all of life. Long years ago students of logic evolved these three simple laws of truth. They do not change with the years. "Whatever is, is. Everything must either be, or not be. Nothing can be, and not be, at the same time." Other laws of truth are quite as self-evident. Emerson said, "A perfect equity adjusts its balance in all parts of life. The dice of God are always loaded. Crime and punishment grow out of one stem." And Joseph Smith, the Prophet, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gave the following revealed truths: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated."—D. And C. 130:20. And further, "I the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say: but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." D. And C. 82:10.: This is not a world of chance. Men and women do not happen to get good positions and flattering honors. Somewhere in the past there were long hours spent in study, hard tasks performed for little or no pay, patience and endurance learned from repeated failures. The musician does not attain the perfect touch; the singer, the velvet tone, merely from wishing. It takes practice and drill to achieve worth while results. We do not grow from a crude state into finished perfection in a day. Long weeks and months and years of drudgery are required to accomplish success. "The law of nature,' said Emerson, "is, Do the thing, and you shall have the power; but they who do not the thing, have not the power." "Everything has its price, and if that price is not paid, not that thing but something else is obtained." It is for us to decide the sort of gift we shall buy from life. We may choose the small cheap pleasures that will last for a day; or, we may select the enduring joys that will go on throughout eternity. The question is, what price are we willing to pay? The rarer gifts are not on sale at a reduction. The values never change. David Starr Jordan says, 'The price which every good and perfect gift demands, we would somehow or other get out of paying. But we can | KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST never cheat the Gods. There are no short cuts to happiness." All around us we see men and women who do not want to pay the price. Who do not want to play the game of life according to the rules. They are looking for easy money. Something for nothing. They are "honest in spots," as Dr. Brimhall used to say. They interpret the law to their own liking. We may deceive our fellows. We may succeed in keeping our mistakes hidden away from the world; but we can not fool Mother Nature, she never forgets and she collects with interest, all that is coming to her. Neither can we hoodwink our God; he reads our hearts like an open book. Why should we attempt to delude ourselves? If we build the foundation of our life's structure of bubbles, the bubbles will burst before we reach the pinnacle. We can't follow a twisted, distorted pattern and hope to erect a strong, symmetrical building. Is it fair to let the young person of today do the things that the old person of tomorrow can not undo? If we do not live now, so as to be good company for ourselves later on, will it not be a lonesome, sorry road we shall have to travel? Whenever we go counter to truth, we are out of harmony with the divine plan. If we would be in partnership with the Master we must follow the path he has marked out, be it ever so straight and narrow. Realizing that the road to greatness is cumbered with difficulties and heartaches, impetuous youth cries out, "I do not want to be great, I want to be comfortable." He does not realize that there are two kinds of comfort. He has yet to learn that a troubled conscience can plunge one 617 into a purgatory so distressing; that all the beautiful downy cushions, and oriental rugs, and soft lights, and luring music in the world, cannot make one comfortable. Material wealth is not a measure of success or happiness. The Great Judge asks what we "are," not what we "have." Men of intellectual pursuits, who are too busy with life to find time to become wealthy, are not committing suicide in sheer desperation. Those whose souls are set like flint, against sin, seem to have very peaceful days in their ripe old age. The deepest satisfactions do not come out of banks and purses. The best gifts cannot be purchased with money. A well developed mind, a refined, cultured personality, these things are beyond price. A life enriched by the Christian virtues, has forward looking years of satisfaction. "Joy and peace are not to be juggled from God or nature," said Frank Crane. "Doing right brings peace and poise to the soul." If we would make our last years rich in eternal values, we must not "cheapen life." If we would find lasting joy, we must keep faith with ourselves. Being true to our conscience now, will eliminate explanations and apologies later on. To keep on happy terms with ourselves we must be sincere and genuine, true to our highest ideals, true to the truth. We set our own standard. We make our own deadline. We reward and punish ourselves, according to the eternal plan of justice. Judas sold his soul for thirty pieces of silver; while Christ gained an eternal salvation by giving his life for all men. 618 For the sake of tomorrow; for the sake of the sweet companionship that may exist between ourselves and our trusting children; and that deeper fellowship that may hold between ourselves and our God, to comfort and sustain us in our hour of need, let us play the game fair. Let us be true to our trust, and make of life a glorious worth while adventure. John Burroughs knew the law of compensation when he wrote: "The waters know their own, and draw The brook that springs in yonder height; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE So flows the good with equal law Unto the soul of pure delight. The stars come nightly to the sky; The tidal wave unto the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me." God's choicest blessings are held in reserve for those who are prepared to receive them. Revealed truth is the foundation of all righteousness. Let us be wise enough to "prove all things, and hold fast to that which is good."