Mother Deserved a Vacation By Mabel S. Harmer Emily stepped to the door to see if Bob was in sight. She knew that he disliked being called from his play to do anything around the house but she felt she could not spend all the time and energy necessary to bring the fruit jars up from the basement when she had a twelve year old son who could do it just as well. "Bobby!" she called and immediately realized her mistake. For more than two years now the boy had refused to answer to anything less manly than 'Bob'. The hammering on the other side of the garage indicated where he was and also that he was going right on with his work. "Robert!" she called sharply and a moment later he came slowly in sight. "I need you for a short time." "Whaffor?" he demanded. "Can't you see I'm working? I got to put some new boards on my dog house." "That can wait," replied his mother. "I want thirty fruit jars brought up from the basement. You may have to wash them, too." "Omigosh!" he exclaimed in a pained voice. "That's a girl's work. What's Loretta doing that she can't help a little around the house?" "Loretta was out late to a party last night and I'm letting her sleep this morning. There will be plenty for her to do when she wakes up anyway, with all these apricots to peel and stone. Take this pan to carry the jars in." Bob picked up the pan and went to the basement muttering in low tones about the uselessness of girls in general and his eighteen year old sister in particular. After he had brought the jars up to the kitchen, he spent another half hour moodily dowsing them in soapy water and when the last one had been washed and rinsed he made a rapid escape back to his carpentry. Mrs. Stevens had just settled herself with a large panful of apricots on her lap when the telephone started a loud and persistent pealing. "I never knew it to fail! I only hope it isn't someone who wants to gossip half an hour!" "Hello, mother,' came the answer to her brisk greeting. "I just called to remind you about the rolls you promised to bake for me. Can I have them about one o'clock?" "Oh, dear," exclaimed Mrs. Stevens, "is it today that your club meets? I really had forgotten. I'm just surrounded with apricots. Couldn't you get them from the store this time?" "Oh, mother," came Julia's pleading voice. "Couldn't you possibly do it? Nobody makes rolls like yours and the girls do look forward to them so." "I'll make them." "And could you have Bob bring them over and take Junior back with him. I'll just have to get him out of the way for the afternoon. He'll be bound to shriek his loudest while the book review is going on." "You know that Bob wouldn't be seen wheeling a baby through the streets," protested her mother. But we'll manage someway." She felt that she would save time by getting back to her work and thinking a way out of the difficulty rather than by arguing about it. She seated herself in the kitchen 620 once more and was busily engaged in preparing the fruit when Loretta appeared in black satin lounging pajamas. "Hello, Mums," she said breezily, as she bestowed a light kiss upon her mother's cheek. "I am extremely busy and would appreciate a little help," was the reply. "All right, darling—sorry I overslept. I'll just garner a bite to eat and then I'll be with you. It was on the tip of Emily's tongue to reprimand Loretta for her flippant way of speaking but she reflected a bit wearily that she had done so a good many times before without any noticeable results and decided to save her breath for the present. After a hasty breakfast, Loretta put on one of her mother's large aprons and sat down with a pan of fruit and a paring knife. "Did you have a good time at the party?" inquired her mother, as she refilled her own pan from the seemingly bottomless basket. "Oh, scrumptious! There was a grand crowd and Paul Aiken asked to take me to the lake tonight with some of his friends from out of town. I haven't been so thrilled in years. Could you possibly finish my new sport dress in time for me to wear it? I haven't another thing that will do." "I don't see how I can, dear, with all this fruit to be bottled today. And I have promised Julia to make rolls for her luncheon at one." Mrs. Stevens had rather poignant memories of the closet full of dresses she had already sewed for her young daughter that spring. "I'll help with the fruit and you can finish the dress in no time," said Loretta disposing of the matter with a wave of her paring knife. Loretta was no adept at household tasks and her mother was extremely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dubious as to whether or not the exchange of services would be very much to her advantage but she said no more about it and went steadily on preparing the fruit until it was time to mix the rolls. She had just started them when Ross, her twenty year old son, burst in through the front door. A moment later they heard him bounding up the stairway. Shortly after he pounced in upon them in the kitchen, panting and disheveled. "Why didn't my light suit go to the cleaners this week?" he demanded. For the simple reason that you didn't put it out, I suppose," calmly answered his mother. "I've told you a dozen times to lay your things in the front hall when you want them to go." "You really can't expect your clothes to walk there, you know," joined in Loretta. Ross ignored this last remark as entirely unworthy of his notice and demanded, "Who in the dickens has had my white tennis sweater? It's a funny thing the way my belongings disappear around this house." "Now, I'll bet that sweater has gone walking," offered Loretta. "Will you be still!" he shouted. "Children," pleaded their mother. "I haven't seen anyone with your sweater, Ross," she went on. "Is there any great hurry about it?" "Well, I'll say there's a hurry," he answered wrathfully. "I am to meet Henry Kirke in less than an hour to go out to the Davises for that weekend party. You remember my telling you about it and here I can't find a thing and my only decent suit isn't pressed." It was perfectly clear that he held everyone but himself responsible for the predicament he was in. "Bring your suit down and I'll press it,' said Emily, "and you can 621 MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION be packing your other things in the meantime." She quickly finished mixing the rolls and set them to raise while she worked on the suit with feverish haste. It was pressed by the time Ross appeared again and with a hasty thanks and a kiss he grabbed it and bounded upstairs to put it on. Without coming back into the kitchen he shouted a goodbye from the front door and went out leaving an almost audible silence behind him. By the time Bob appeared for his lunch, Emily had the rolls baked and packed ready to send to Julia. She allowed him to eat a hearty meal before she said anything about his errand, knowing that any male, however young, is more approachable when filled. When he had finished she gave him an extra piece of cake and said sweetly, "I have a little errand for you to do, Robert. You are to take these rolls over to Julia and bring Junior back." "Me!" he exclaimed indignantly. "Wheel that baby through four city blocks? What's the matter with Loretta doing it?" "Loretta is helping me and there isn't anyone else to go so you will have to. Run along now like a good boy and I'll make it up to you some other time." "Will you mend my ball pants this afternoon?" asked Bob, who was never known to pass an opportunity to drive a bargain. Visions of the still unbottled fruit and Loretta's dress passed through Emily's head but she wearily nodded an assent and started Robert on his way with the rolls. By four o'clock the fruit was all bottled and she had begun work on Loretta's dress. The baby had been an additional care throughout 621 the afternoon, refusing to go to sleep in a strange bed and exhibiting a remarkable fondness for apricots. The kitchen floor was still unscrubbed and showed ample evidence of the day's labors but Emily reflected that it could wait or go unscrubbed as was necessary. She just did manage to get the dress finished in time for Loretta to slip into it before a car full of young people called for her. "She does look lovely," thought Emily, watching Loretta adjust her hat to a perky angle. "It was a pleasure to do things for her if there were only a little more time." She was obliged to set on a cold supper but she thought Horace wouldn't mind this once. With a pang she remembered Bob's ball suit and hoped that she could snatch a few minutes after the table was set in which to mend it. Instead of being late, however, her husband rushed in a few minutes early and presently she heard him rummaging about in the rear closet. "Another fishing trip!' Emily almost groaned. "Why did it have to happen today? Well, she had started him off on a good many trips during their twenty-five years of married life, she supposed that she could manage one more. She let him take his time about coming to supper and seized the opportunity to take the promised stitches in Bob's baseball clothes. Horace was fairly bubbling over with enthusiasm when he finally appeared for supper. Jed Travers had said that the fishing was great up on Aspen Lake. They were going to leave at four in the morning. Could she throw a few cans of something or other and a few loaves of bread together? Emily fervently wished that it were as simple as that, but she had 622 dealt with Horace's appetite for too many years now to be so optimistic about it. Horace went to bed early in order to be up for a good start and after ten o'clock when Emily had packed what food she considered might reasonably be expected to last him through an ordinary fishing trip, she dropped wearily onto her own pillow. She was too tired even to go to sleep for a while. She wondered if she were really being an excellent mother, or if she was just making a doormat of herself by waiting upon her family so continuously. It was true that the day had been an unusual one, still, she spent most of her days in working for them one way or another. Did they appreciate it? She supposed not. Children were apt to take their parents for granted. She wondered what would happen if she were to go away for a time. What a rude awakening there would be when they found there was no mother to do the dozen and one things they demanded in a day. It might be a good thing all the way around. She certainly deserved a rest and they might learn to appreciate her if they had to do a few things for themselves. Horace had often asked her to go on a fishing trip, but she disliked camping out. She preferred doing her cooking at home where she didn't have to worry about getting cinders in her eyes. It had been a long time now since he had even asked her to go. Before dropping off to sleep she had half settled on the idea of going away. She could go to her sister Helen. It-had been years since she had paid Helen a real visit and then she had taken the children along and waited upon them much the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same as when she was at home. Helen's would be the ideal place to go. Helen was a widow whose two children were long since married, so there would be no children or husband about. There was a maid to do all the work and a big quiet house to rest in. Nothing to do but rest! The words became music in her ears and lulled her to sleep. During the three days that Horace was away the idea remained with her. Everyone else was talking vacations and goodness knew that if anyone deserved one she did. She went so far as to write to Helen and received an enthusiastic invitation in return. Helen always had thought that she was foolish to slave for her family the way she did and told her that it was high time she got away from them for a while. When her husband returned, Emily calmly broke the news that she had decided to take a vacation. Everyone was stunned at first but Horace rose gallantly to the occasion, when the children began to voice half-uttered protests, by saying, "Why, of course, you must take a vacation. You'll all agree, children, that mother deserves a rest." There was no denying this so they all agreed to cooperate to the fullest extent with 'Amelia' who was to be called in to do the heavier part of the housework and cooking. Loretta insisted that she buy some new clothes, although her mother said that she wouldn't need anything more than a few new porch dresses to "sit around and rest in." Loretta remembered Aunt Helen as very modern and with very modern friends and in the end marshalled her mother to town for some new dresses although Emily firmly drew the line at having a permanent wave. MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION Emily felt her first pang of doubt as she boarded the train and looked into her children's faces as they waved good-bye. It was the first time in years that she had left them for more than overnight and now she was to be gone for three weeks. Horace had insisted that she take a good rest while she was at it. Which reminded her that she deserved one, so she attempted to forget the somewhat woebegone faces at the station. Helen was delighted to see her. They had supper that first evening on a vine shaded porch. It was heavenly to sit there in the cool of the evening and be served a meal without having to jump up half a dozen times to bring something to the table. Helen's comfortable income allowed her to devote her time to club work or anything else that she might be interested in. It was delightful to sit on the front veranda afterward, watch the people pass up and down the street and chat with her sister without having the telephone ring or someone dash up and down the steps every few minutes. "We don't get up for breakfast," said Helen as they parted for the night, "so sleep just as late as you wish. Mina will bring you a tray about nine." Emily was used to awaking early. She lay in bed and fidgeted about until the maid appeared with the breakfast tray. She would very much have preferred getting up and having her breakfast in the usual way but she hesitated to interfere with the regular household routine. She had not eaten in bed since Robert was born and she felt decidedly awkward and self-conscious about it. She arose as soon after eating as she felt could be done with pro623 priety and went down stairs. Helen was not up so she seated herself on the front porch. After a while it grew monotonous and she wished that she had some darning or mending to do. But having come for a vacation, she had brought nothing of the sort along. In the afternoon, Helen had a committee meeting and invited Emily to sit with them. She could understand very little of what they were talking about, in fact their club phraseology almost amounted to another language. She felt rather envious of these women who made such important sounding plans and decisions. She could not help but notice what beautiful, white hands they had and she contrasted them surreptitiously with her own work-roughened ones. These were women who worked with their heads instead of their hands. By the end of the afternoon her estimation of herself and her place in the existing scheme of important things had gone down almost to the vanishing point. The evening passed much the same as the one before had. Supper on the rear veranda and a quiet evening on the porch afterwards. Emily was still convinced that she was enjoying the change very much and that it was merely a matter of habit that she listened every once in a while for the sound of hurrying feet or shrill voices. She was having a much deserved vacation and was enjoying it very much. She settled back in her chair to rest a little more thoroughly. By the end of the third day she began to wonder what the home folks were doing and how they were getting along without her. She was quite sure that Bob would go swimming more times than was good for him although she had warned him against it. She wondered if anyone 624 would remember to water her rose bushes. They had just been set out this year and she had cared for them with such solicitude that it would be a shame to have them die now for want of a little attention. There was a sameness about Helen's days. She arose in time to oversee a very few household tasks before noon, then attended to her rather voluminous correspondence and almost invariably had a committee meeting in the afternoon. Emily wondered how the world ever struggled along before Helen took over so much responsibility in her various committees. By the end of the week she thoroughly hated the sound of the word 'rest.' She had rested on the front porch until she was tempted to look to see whether or not she had worn the paint off the chairs. She groaned inwardly when she remembered that her vacation was to last three weeks. How absurd to have set the time at three weeks. She might have known that she would be bored to death in half that time. Well, it would never do to go home before the time was over. No one would ever be able to understand such inconsistency. She would have to continue to rest, no matter what the cost. The morning that ended the first week of her visit, Mina brought her a hastily scribbled note with her breakfast tray. It read: "Emily dear: I have been called to Standish by telegram this morning. A district meeting of the Federated Clubs is taking place and Mrs. Evans, our state President, is ill, so I have been asked to go in her stead. I shall only be away three or four days, so just continue to make yourself at home and get a good rest. Mina will take good care of you, I am sure, Love, Helen." "Mina will if she gets a chance," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE said Emily aloud. She dressed and packed and soon had written briefly to her sister: "Dearest Helen: I am sorry to run away in your absence but I am needed urgently at home. Nothing serious. Will let you know later. Thanks so much for all your kind attention. I feel thoroughly rested in just the one short week I have been here. Love, Emily." On reading it over she could see no statement that was not justified. After a solitary lunch she caught an early afternoon train and found herself beaming at intervals on her fellow passengers. She hoped that most of them were going home and not just starting out on a vacation. She took a taxi from the station and shed a tear of happiness when they drove in sight of her home. It looked just the same—thank goodness! Now if the family would be equally obliging, all would be well. She almost flew up the front steps and into the hallway. "That you, Ross?" came Loretta's voice from above. "No, it's I, darling," Emily answered, trying to still the tremble in her voice. "Mother! Oh mother!" cried Loretta as she dashed down the stairway and crushed her mother in her arms. "You darling, how on earth did it happen?" "Let me get my breath and I'll tell you," answered Emily happily. It was almost worth going away, she reflected, to get such a tempestuous welcome. "Your aunt was called out of town and so naturally I didn't feel like staying on there alone." "Well, you're just in time," said Loretta breathlessly, "otherwise I should have had to get engaged without asking your consent and that would never have done. Come into MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION 625 the living room and I'll tell you about it," said Loretta dragging her mother into the room and putting her into a chair. "Paul wants me to become engaged to him and I love him so much, but of course I wanted your consent first and I couldn't possibly have waited three weeks." "But my dear," pleaded Emily, "you are only eighteen." "How old were you when you became engaged?" "Well," admitted her mother, "I was just eighteen too — but times were different then." "Perhaps," agreed Loretta, "but I don't imagine people were. May I tell him that it is all right?" "I'll have to talk it over with your father first," was Emily's only concession, "and I should like to take off my hat, if you have no more startling news for me."; "Whoopee! If it isn't our good old pie-maker back again!" and Bob practically tumbled into the room, the flippancy of his welcome was softened by its warmth. "You're just in time," he continued after a hug of the bear variety. "So I have learned," smiled his mother. "The scouts are having an outing for mothers at Lacy's Grove. Gosh! It wouldn't have been anything at all if you couldn't have been there. And you don't even have to do any of the cooking," he assured her. "We are going to do it all ourselves. Aren't you glad you came home?" "Yes, I'm glad, son," she answered in good scout fashion, then turning to Loretta, "How are Julia and the baby?" "Julia's all right but I believe the baby is upset." "I'll run right over. There will just be time before dinner and then I won't have to worry about him," said Emily with her accustomed energy. She walked quickly to her daughter's. How rapidly life and events moved, she reflected, and how essential it was always to live to the fullest and not let any of the worthwhile moments escape. Inside the house, she found Julia vainly trying to soothe a fretful baby. "Oh, mother," she sobbed, "I'm so relieved you've come. I can't seem to do a thing for him. Everyone says that the second summer is the hardest and I'm scared to death." "Well, everyone is wrong," declared her mother as she picked up the baby. "The second summer is no harder than any other summer if you use a little common sense. Let's give him a cool bath first and then see what else should be done for him." Emily tied one of Julia's aprons over her 'good' dress and then proceeded to undress and bathe the baby. He seemed to feel at once that he was receiving more expert care and his wailings began to subside. When she had finished with the final deft administration, Julia, who had been watching her intently, said, "What wonderful hands you have, mother. Every move they make is so capable." Emily held out her hands and looked at them as if seeing them for the first time. Then as she smiled, she said, "Yes—I suppose there is a difference in hands."