Fourfold Culture By Judge Nephi Jensen It was one of those thrilling moments in the history of scientific discovery. An excited throng had gathered about the Leaning Tower of Pisa, one fine day early in the Seventeenth Century. At that time the philosophy of Aristotle was held in very high favor by the learned. This Greek philosopher had by a process of simple reasoning arrived at the conclusion that the speed of falling bodies vary according to their relative weights. The rumor had got out, in Pisa, that a professor of mathematics in the University of Pisa was about to make some experiment that might reflect upon the accuracy of Aristotle's conclusion. The circulation of this report was the occasion for the gathering of the populace. While the throng waited in expectancy, the mathematician Galileo calmly ascended the tower, carrying two weights, one that weighed one pound and one that weighed three pounds. When he reached the top of the tower he unceremoniously dropped the weights at the same moment; and in spite of Aristotle's solemn conclusion, and the belief of the world for over a thousand years, the two weights struck the ground at the same instant. Owing to the gross superstition of the times, the assembled believers in Aristotle's philosophy concluded that some evil power had aided Galileo; and as a consequence he was forced to resign his position as professor of mathematics in the University of Pisa. It is a very simple incident. And yet it has tremendous historical significance. It was one of the humble pioneering attempts at ascertaining truth by experimentation, out of which came the great modern scientific method that has flooded our world with the glory of light and truth. The circumstance is interesting here for the reason that it exemplifies one of the accepted ways of learning truth. It gives us a simple understandable illustration of the scientific truth seeker at his specialized task. Discovery of truth is a basic aspect of the educative enterprise. The contributions of the scientific discoverer of truth to the efficiency, convenience, health, comfort, pleasure, enlightenment and technological skill of man are marvelous beyond human power to estimate. The effectiveness of the scientific fact finding process in the physical and technological realms is so manifest that it is sometimes thought of as identical with the whole learning process. 600 There is grave danger in this tendency to make fact finding and truth discovering the sum total of the cultural life. There are a great many vital truths we do not, and cannot learn in the test tube or with the measuring devices of physical science. A glimpse at a thinker at his exalting task will furnish convincing proof that all of man's intellectual development is not the result of scientific fact finding. Herbert Spencer, the man of profound meditation, was seated at his desk. About him were untold volumes on the origin of the theories of right and wrong. He was at work on his monumental work, Principles of Ethics. Just at the time we are referring to he was writing his chapter on the biological aspects of goodness and badness. As he meditated and wrote, he left for us this conclusion. "Human life is the highest thing in the world." From this basic premise he concluded that everything that tends to degrade or destroy human life is bad; and that everything that tends to improve and ennoble human life is good. What was Herbert Spencer doing here? He was not discovering truth by scientific experimentation. He was merely meditating. He was philosophizing. Or, in other words, he was correlating or unifying truth in the moral realm. This process of arriving at truth by determining its place in a system of truth, is also a valued way of learning. In fact, this method of ascertaining the relation of a given truth to the sum total of truth is the only way we can evaluate a moral truth. We cannot take Herbert Spencer's conclusion about goodness and badness into the scientific laboratory and there determine its accuracy. Truths in the field of ethics are measured philosophically. Let us now for a moment leave the scientist and philosopher and look at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE another aspect of the learning process. It was a warm sultry day. A man of some culture stood looking at a framed bit of winter scene, which had been touched into realistic life by the deft touch of artistic genius. As the elderly coatless man looked with esthetic delight at the artistic creation, he remarked meaningfully. "It is so real it almost makes you feel cool." Here we have an example of another way of becoming aware of truth. This man of culture did not come by his knowledge of the element of the beautiful by a process of experimentation nor by philosophical meditation.. He actually felt and experienced the truth he expressed by a sort of sympathetic appreciation, John Burroughs, the great naturalist, who was not only an eminent scientist but also a real artist in the field of literary craftsmanship, in his essay "A Prophet of the Soul," distinguishes the way the scientist learns from the way the artist learns. He says, "We do not know a work of art in the same way that we know a work of science or a product of analytical reasoning; we know it as we know those we are in sympathy with; it does not define itself to our intellect; it melts into our souls." Burrough's conclusion is profoundly true. We learn the pleasure of the realistic blending of light and shadow in the picture, the endearing charm of a cherished bit of landscape, and the delight of poetic rhythm as we "learn to know those we are in sympathy with." FOURFOLD CULTURE Let us now take a glimpse at still another learning process. In the early thirties of the last century there was living in the state of Ohio a young college graduate of lofty mind and pure aspirations. Through his sister he was induced to investigate Mormonism. As a result of his reading the Book of Mormon he became convinced of the divinity of the religion which his sister had already espoused. He was baptized into the Church. After his initiation into the Church he became deeply anxious to learn from a divine source whether the religion of his recent espousal was really true. He sought a secluded spot near his home and sought in devout earnest prayer for the desired testimony. The young man's account of that sincere appeal of faith is most interesting. He says that while he prayed the Spirit of God completely enveloped him and filled him from head to foot with light, life and unspeakable joy and glory. All darkness left him; and he felt the presence of a refulgent "light and knowledge." This young man became the fifth president of the Church. His experience here referred to exemplifies what we might call the inspirational method of learning truth. He attained absolute certainty regarding a vital religious truth by the direct inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Or, in other words, he was made alive to truth by the awakening power of the Holy Ghost. It was this type of experience the Master had in mind when he spoke of the Spirit of Truth "guiding into all truth;" and that impelled Moroni to say, "By the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." It would not be doing violence to the text to make Moroni's words abundant life." 601 read, "By the power of the Holy Ghost you may be made alive to all truth." For the real effect of the inspiration of the Spirit is to awaken us to the reality of the beautiful, the good and the true. Or, in other words, inspiration is an intensification of the power to know, feel and enjoy beauty, goodness and truth. This idea of becoming alive to truth by the quickening power of the Spirit is one of the great corner stones of the Master's philosophy of human development. He speaks of "entering into life' as the highest quest of the finest souls; and declares that it was his specific task to give his followers "the abundant life." "Entering into life," as the Master understood it, means essentially becoming intensely alive to the deep things of God; and to become abundantly alive is the attainment of "the The possession of this deeper and fuller life is the distinctive thing that entitles one to be called spiritual. The abundant life is essentially the life to the spirit. It is intensified spirituality. And spirituality is that liveliness of spirit that intensifies appreciation of the beautiful, deepens love for the truth, kindles love for the good, and makes the heart beat in harmony with the moral forces of the world, enhances delight in the realization of high ideals, and quickens in the soul the joy of being in actual partnership with God in the perfection and ennoblement of mankind. The attainment of spirituality is the highest aspect of culture. This spiritual refinement and ennoblement comes through working in the spiritual laboratory—the laboratory of prayer and worship, fellowship and communion with the Divine. We learn the truths of the physical 602 realm by scientific investigation and experimentation. We learn the relation of a moral truth to the sum total of truth, through philosophical meditation. We learn the charm of the beautiful through sympathetic appreciation. And we learn the truth about our relationship to the Divine and eternal through inspiration. A complete culture involves discovering truth, unifying and systematizing truth, artistic glorification of truth, and the intensification of the power to know and feel the truth through the inspiration of the Spirit of Truth. The inspiration of the spirit is the only means of certainty regarding life's deepest spiritual experiences. Dr. G. Stanley Hall, the late eminent psychologist recognized this fundamental truth. He asserts that "The supreme criterion of truth in the realm of human experience, as distinguished from physical science, is that it rings true to the individual soul." This "ringing true to the individual soul" is a kind of inspiration. Why should we doubt the inspirational side of the cultural life? You have on many a radiant morning walked into a flower garden, when the hearts of the roses were breaking under the kisses of the sunlight; and when you came near the flowers you were awakened to esthetic delight by an unseen something that radiates from the soul of the rose. You call it fragrance. But what is fragrance? Three Kinds of Trouble How many kinds of trouble do you bear at one time? Edward Everett Hale said, "We should never attempt to bear more than one kind RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE You do not know. No one knows. The scientist with all his marvelous instruments of technology, has never caught the fragrance of a rose in his test tube and analyzed it and determined its chemical constituents. And yet you know as certainly as you know anything that the fragrance of the rose ministers to your purest delight, by a sort of inspiration. Saints and prophets of all ages solemnly aver that there is a Spirit, like the fragrance of a rose—a Spirit of light, life and joy—that radiates from the presence of God, and that when the human heart is pure this divine Spirit inspires the soul with the unspeakable delight of being in absolute harmony with the God of goodness, beauty and truth. If you cannot deny the inspiration of a rose, why should you doubt the inspiration of the Spirit of Truth? There is a time and place within the scope of the larger culture for scientific investigation, philosophical meditation, artistic appreciation and spiritual inspiration. If we would enjoy the full fruits of this complete culture we must keep companionship with the books of science from which we obtain facts, live with the books of philosophy from which we receive ideas and ideals, enjoy the books of literary art from which we derive esthetic delight, and receive life from the divine books of spiritual power; and participate whole heartedly in all the activities that promote the discovery of truth, the systematization of truth and the glorification of truth. of trouble at once.