Some Rain Must Fall By Ruth M. Ostegar JEAN ROWLAND'S spirits, like the barometer, showed a decided low. The day was cloudy and cold. The wind howled, moaned around the shabby, little house into which the Rowland's had been forced to move, then took itself off to shake down more leaves for Jean to rake up. The whole world looked dark and dreary. Pausing in the middle of doing her morning work, Jean went to the dresser, pulled out her purse and slowly counted the pennies, nickles, dimes and quarters therein. "Four dollars and eighty-five cents," she told herself, "and Jimmie needs new shoes, Beth and Lena both need new coats and neither Henry nor I have had a new thing in months!' She thrust the purse savagely into the drawer and choked back the tears. "It's terrible, to be so poor! I can't see why the Lord has to pick on us. We've always been faithful, paid our tithing, and tried to do right, and here Henry has been without regular work for nine months. It isn't fair! It almost makes me wish I had married for money like Susie Wright, or gone on teaching school and never married. I know there isn't a woman in town whom fate has treated so cruelly as it has me. At one blow, when the bank failed, we lost all our savings and Henry was thrown out of a job. Then we had to let the car and our home go, and—" The door bell suddenly interrupted her tirade; she hastened to open the door. "Good morning," smiled. Her visitor "Why come right in, Sister Meecham, we were going Relief Society teaching today weren't we? And I'd forgotten all about it. Sit down, I'll be ready in a minute." "Oooo—the car feels nice after being in that cold wind," Jean said a few minutes later as she climbed into the car, and added, "Where are we going first today?" "I think we had better call on Sister Merritt. You know her baby is awfully sick." "What a shame! I hadn't heard of it. And she only has the one, too. What's the matter with it?" "Pneumonia, the doctor says." As they entered the Merritt home they were greeted by the grave face and low voice of Brother Merritt. His hair looked a little whiter and his face showed the strain of the anxiety, worry and loss of sleep he had been suffering. He led them to the little bedside where Sister Merritt was so patiently awaiting the climax and doing what she could to ease the little sufferer. The sight went straight to Jean's heart. What could she do or say in the face of such a situation? She knew the Merritt's whole life revolved around the little child, as they, like Sarah of old, had waited years before they had been blessed with a baby. But Sister Meecham, who was older and more experienced, with a few gentle words and an arm slipped around the tired mother seemed to soothe her pent up feelings and bring new cheer and hope. "Have you made arrangements 636 for anyone to stay with you tonight?" Jean finally asked. "No! I couldn't sleep anyway!" "But you must have some one or you will be sick yourself. While I don't know much about nursing, I'd be glad to come and relieve you." "But you have your own children to look after," Sister Meecham interrupted. "We'll see if we can get Mary Green. All her children are practically grown and Betty is old enough to cook for the boys and her father. In fact it would do her good to have a little responsibility placed upon her. The sisters finally departed, leaving a more peaceful spirit behind. "We might as well go on right down the street and make our calls as they come," said Sister Meecham. "Getting a nice early start like we have this morning, there will be time enough to see Mary Green when we get there." The next two calls proceeded in the usual manner, Sister Meecham giving the teacher's topic at the first place and Jean giving it at the next one. After their message was given and discussed they visited a few moments and hastened on their way. For their fourth call, they left the street on which they had been calling and went up on the hill to visit at the home of Susie Wright, whom only that morning Jean had been envying. Ever since Susie had married Evanstown's wealthiest citizen she had neglected the church, and treated the Relief Society sisters rather condescendingly, if indeed she saw them at all. More often her maid simply stated that Mrs. Wright was not at home, even though they had seen her being driven in by her chauffeur but a few moments before. The call on Susie, therefore, was usually not a very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enjoyable affair. As they walked up the path through the beautiful flower beds, beautiful still though summer was gone, Jean looked at her shabby clothes and almost wished that once again Mrs. Wright would be "not at home." This time, however, they were admitted and shown into the beautifully furnished drawing room. Jean looked around the lovely room and sighed as she thought of her own weather-beaten little cottage. "Oh it must be wonderful to have a beautiful home like this, with all the money you need and a maid to do all your work," she thought. "If only I could change places with her for a little while! It would do her a lot of good to be real poor for a while. It would take a lot of snobbishness out of her, too.' At first when Susie entered there was a cool, aloofness about her which, although Jean had known her ever since they were children together, made her feel rather uncomfortable. But dear Sister Meecham started in on the topic with her usually clever manner and little by little Susie seemed to become interested in spite of herself, and would add a word or make a comment here and there. "It seems to me," Sister Meecham finally remarked, "that a great many of our social problems could be solved if there were only more real, true, self-sacrificing love in the world, and not so much greed and selfishness." "Love!" It was almost a moan that escaped Susie's lips and both her guests looked up quickly to see her eyes fill with tears. For a second it looked as though she were going to break down and cry, but she quickly gained her self-control and changing the subject, remarked, casually, "Beastly weather we're having, isn't it? Autumn is so gloomy, it always makes me terribly blue." The talk changed to lighter subjects for a few minutes until Jean unwittingly chanced to make the remark, "Oh, Susie, you surely ought to be the happiest woman in the world, with beauty and culture all around you and all the money you need; especially now that there is so much poverty and suffering on every hand." "Happy? The happiest woman in the world?" Again Susie's eyes filled with tears, but this time it was a little too much for her to hold them back, and she sobbed, "How can I be happy when I have no one in the world to love?" With this she broke down and sobbed almost hysterically for a moment, then: "My husband never loved me. He just married me because I was beautiful and popular." Her words were punctuated with sobs, but she continued, "I have no children — he doesn't want any—I hate him! My father and mother are both gone, and I have no real friends, they care only for my money. Oh, if I only had someone to really love." Then she broke into uncontrolled sobs before her astonished visitors. After a few moments, while Sister Meecham tried to once again act as a comforter, Susie ceased crying and apologized for breaking down before them. She blamed the weather again for her despondency, and begged them not to breathe a word of what had happened. Finally she bade them goodbye, after they had assured her of their friendship and help if she ever needed them. As they once more walked through the garden, the utter loneliness of her situation struck both of them, and Sister Meecham said, as she shook her head, "All is not gold that glitters." SOME RAIN MUST FALL 637 MRS. JONES, the next lady on the list was not at home. "She's probably doing her own teaching since this is the last day," Jean remarked. "And that leaves us only one more, doesn't it?" "Yes, just Mary Green, and I surely hope she can stay with Mrs. Merritt part of the time for a few days." As the car stopped in front of the gate, the front door opened and Mary Green, with red, swollen eyes, and a worried look, walked rapidly down the path and greeted them. "Oh, I'm so glad to see you, I just needed someone. I believe God must have sent you to me." "Why, what's the matter?" both women asked. "What's wrong?" "It's Betty," she told them as they walked into the house. "You know she has been running around with that Benson fellow. Everybody knows he's no good. I've tried my best to make her see what she was doing, but she just refused to listen, and last night there was a terrible scene. You know how stubborn and hard her father is; he never understood her, and last night he forbade her ever seeing him again. I know it was very unwise. He realizes it, too, now, but some time during the night she ran away." "Ran away!" again came the chorus. "Yes, I called her early this morning to get up and get breakfast while I started the washing, and she wasn't there. Her room was empty." "Perhaps she is just with some of her friends," Jean suggested. "I thought of that, but I've called every one I can think of and no one has seen or heard of her. I'm almost crazy! Her father's gone now to see if he can locate Benson. I don't know what will come of it all." After doing what they could to cheer her up and reassure her, Jean 638 left, as it was not far home and she wanted to get her work done up early, as she could see that it would be out of the question now to ask Mrs. Green to go and spend the night with Mrs. Merritt. Jean felt that she could be spared from her home now that her husband wasn't working, and she was anxious to do something to help. Mrs. Meecham, who had long been Mrs. Green's best friend, decided to stay with her for a few hours, as Mrs. Green had begged her to do so. WHEN Henry Rowland returned to dinner discouraged and blue after an unsuccessful attempt to find work, he was greeted by a singing, smiling wife. Kissing him, she led him to the nearest rocker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and brought his slippers, which she assisted him to put on. Then she sat on the arm of his chair, facing him, and taking his tired face between her hands she said, "Cheer up, dear, it isn't so bad to be poor." "You're a brick, dear. It's on your account that I've hated it so much." "Oh, there's lots of things worse than poverty. I went Relief Society teaching today, but it was I who learned the biggest lesson. "In all life some rain must fall.' But, Henry dear, we have love, faith, children, friends, we're all well and we have no family troubles or broken hearts, and though poor, we've still so many things to be thankful for!' With another kiss she ran in to take up the steaming dishes she had prepared for dinner. MRS. MARY DURNEY, OF ST. ANTHONY, AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS Sister Durney has given over twenty-five years' service in Relief Society.