(To be continued) I told Lucy's Decision By Virginia Nielsen RS. STEWART rose from M her deep armchair and went to the door in answer to the knocker. She was a heavy woman with enough height to enable her to carry herself gracefully. As Lucy Maddon watched the older woman's heels bury themselves in the soft rug, she thought, "This is the way I want to live." The room was so harmoniously comfortable and quiet that one felt nothing unpleasant could take place within its walls. A spirit of restfulness hung over the simple but lovely furnishings which were imbued with the personality of the gracious, grayeyed woman who had chosen them. Mrs. Stewart came back with atelegram. "Do you mind?" The flush of excitement on her cheeks made her look very youthful in spite of her gray hair and the lines experience had etched on her face. "Nine pounds!" she cried, happily. "It's my daughter, Adah," she explained. "I'm so glad to know she is all right. She has a new baby boy." "Nine pounds," echoed Lucy, from her comfortable chair. "It must be a fine baby." Mrs. Stewart's eyes were misty as she sat down again opposite her young guest. "It's a wonderful experience — motherhood. I remember so clearly the day Adah was born. And now, She has a child of her own. No woman can know what it means until she has experienced it." She looked at Lucy—at her mature though youthfully rounded face, and her trim, business-girl figure. "I can't wish any more happiness for you, my dear," she said, slowly, "than that some day will bring you what today has brought Adah." The color in Lucy's cheeks heightened at the reference to her approaching marriage. "I'm afraid it won't," she said, meeting the older woman's eyes candidly. "Fred and I have decided not to have children." "Why?" cried Mrs. Stewart. "They're so expensive," said Lucy; making a deprecatory gesture with her gloves. "And Fred says they annoy him." "How do you feel about it?" "Well," said Lucy, a little hesitantly. "I shan't mind. I've always dreaded the thought of being tied down. When one has been as independent as I—" "You're going to keep your job?" asked the older woman, quickly. "Oh, no," said Lucy. "It takes me out of town too much." Mrs. Stewart, who was 'Mother Stewart" to a host of young people, looked at the girl with real concern in her eyes. In the few months since Lucy had rented an apartment in the house next door, the two had become very good friends. Mrs. Stewart believed that back of the laconic remarks and the even, controlled features was a Lucy who was wanting to face life honestly and interpret it rightly. Her thoughts went back swiftly to her own marriage. It would not have occurred to her that a woman might make such a decision as Lucy was now making. A childless woman was an object of pity in those days. Truly, times had changed. This 612 generation was meeting problems and situations that she could only try a little helplessly to, understand. But suppose she had taken Lucy's attitude then? Not to have known the clasp of little fingers around her throat, the joy of drying little tears, or in a single, terrifying moment of illness, the deathless burning quality of mother love! And now, to be alone, as she was, without having her fingers on the pulse of a half dozen other lives—Adah, on the west coast, with her firstborn—Charles in Colorado, with a successful little business and a modest family—Bart, the wanderer, over whom she had worried night and day, yet who never failed to win her love and forgiveness with a gay, endearing letter— Ah, Lucy could not know what she was renouncing. It was worth the cost, however dear. "But how can I make her understand?" she wondered. She hesitated, then said, "Will you take a walk with me?" UTSIDE, Mrs. Stewart took Lucy's arm and directed their steps toward the city park a few blocks away. "Pm going to show you something," she said, gravely. Lucy looked at her questioningly, but she said nothing more until they had entered the park, and had come upon three children playing, while a young girl watched them. Mrs. Stewart pulled Lucy down beside her on a bench not far from the little group. "Watch them," she said, and looked at her watch. ''The woman I brought you to see will be here in a few minutes." Lucy looked at the children. There were a fairheaded, sturdy boy, a dark-eyed little girl with the air of a princess, and another boy, scarcely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of babyhood, with a halo of light curls.: "Now let's play Sleeping Beauty," begged the girl. "Aw, you always want to play that," said her older brother, disgustedly. "Well, you always want to play Indian, an' that's no fun," retorted the girl. There arose a heated argument which was finally settled by the nurse girl, who introduced a game of her own. A woman in a dark tailored suit approached them from the other end — of the path. When the children spied. Her, they ran to her with cries of happy greeting. Lucy felt a queer little twinge at her heart when she saw the light that illumined the woman's face as she bent down to the youngsters. "Their mother?" she questioned. Mrs. Stewart shook her head. The woman was pulling some gifts from her pocketbook. She sat down beside the nurse girl, and drew the children to her. "When she was married," Mrs. Stewart told Lucy, "she promised her husband that theirs would be a childless marriage. They were both young. She was very much in love with him—still is, I think—" Lucy watched the face of the woman in black as she listened to Mrs. Stewart's quiet voice. "She went too. Far in trying to keep that promise, and when they changed their minds, it was too late. She can never have a child." She stopped. "Tell us a story," the children were begging. The woman in black glanced at the nurse girl, who looked at her watch and nodded her. The children clapped their hand gleefully. And their visitor drew them closer to her as she began talking in a low voice. LUCY'S DECISION 613 Mrs. Stewart turned to Lucy, her eyes shining with understanding. "You can see she adores them." Lucy's throat was dry. The little scene was affecting her strangely. "She comes through here every evening on her way home from work. She lives a lonely life except for these few minutes each day." Lucy moistened her lips. "But if her husband feels the same way—" she began. Mrs. Stewart shook her head sadly. "The man who was her husband is the father of these children," she said, softly. "After four or five years he divorced her, and married another woman. He's raising a family now— The woman was bidding the children goodbye. As she passed the two women who watched, she glanced in their direction, and nodded to Mrs. Stewart. Lucy's heart contracted at the hunger and unhappiness in her dark eyes.. The nurse girl called the children together, and taking the baby's fat hand, led them off in the other direction. Lucy and Mrs. Stewart arose and started home. Lucy was silent for a long time. The older woman watched her rather anxiously. "I hope you didn't mind my bringing you here," she said.