A Wonderful Year THE time draws near for our opening meetings. We expect our 1935-36 year of Relief Society activity to be an outstanding one. We hope all our officers are enthusiastically planning to make this the best year in our history. Each season should surpass the previous ones, for we have them to profit by. To insure this, every detail should be attended to, every office filled with efficient, enthusiastic officers. The program should be carefully planned and provision made so that there shall be no failures. People should be notified of the opening meeting and cordially invited to attend. Meetings should begin on time. Officers should not wait for the people to come, but when the time arrives for commencement, the opening song should be rendered. Meetings should also close on time, so that the members will know exactly how long they will be in meeting. Our music should be made more effective. Our lessons should be better socialized. Our work days will this year receive new impetus through our book "Handicraft for Every Woman," and through the suggestions offered in the Magazine. Let all remember, however, that no matter how well every detail is attended to and how carefully the work is planned, unless through prayerful seeking the Holy Spirit is present with its directing power and sweet influence the meetings will lack their most potent power. We extend greetings and best wishes to all our officers and members and hope that their joy in Relief Society work will be greater than ever before. Value of Travel THE other day I met a charming woman who had traveled extensively. I was impressed with the clear vision she had of problems and how well she understood people. Her eyes flashed as she said, "It is the people, the people, I am interested in." Those who are fortunate enough to travel should make the study of peoples their greatest problem. It is a joy to visit beautiful buildings, it is interesting to see what man has accomplished, but the greatest value of such opportunities is that it makes people realize what man has wrought. People who have come from their travels should again and again dwell upon their experiences. To recount the beautiful things they have seen and to tell of the interesting people they have met impresses these things upon their minds and makes their trip of far greater future value. Travelers should always return from a journey with a deeper understanding of people and their problems and with more love for and interest in mankind. Lesson Department (For First Week in March) Theology and Testimony LESSON VI INTRODUCTION OF THE TEMPLE ENDOWMENT 1. The Brick Store. In modern times, the temple endowment was introduced by the Prophet Joseph Smith in a large upstairs room, often spoken of by him as the "Council Chamber," situated above his store, Wednesday, May 4, 1842. It will be recalled that when the Prophet moved to Nauvoo, he took up his abode in a log house which was present on the ground at the time of its purchase. The house faced the south and was situated on a slightly elevated tract of land only a few rods from the edge of the mighty Mississippi, which at this place flowed locally toward the southeast. The principal north-south street of Nauvoo was so located that it passed within a few feet of the east side of the house. The first east-west street to the north was Water Street. This arrangement of the streets and the river gave the Prophet a triangular tract, at the southeast corner of which was his residence, and the northwest corner, his store at the banks of the river and Water Street. 2. The building itself was a twostory brick structure facing the north. It was roughly thirty feet wide by fifty feet long, substantially roofed and ornamented with a somewhat massive cornice. At the front, on the ground floor, was an ordinary double door, flanked on each side by a window about as large as the door itself. Above on the second floor were three windows of. Slightly smaller dimensions. The building in its entirety was not unlike the regulation "co-op store? subsequently built in many of the smaller villages and towns of Utah. The upper story of this building was the Prophet's "Council Chamber,' and, as stated above, marks the place where the temple endowment was first given in modern times. 3. Divine Instruction. The doctrine of baptism for the dead was first made known to the saints in a sermon preached by the Prophet at the funeral of Elder Seymour Bronson, August 10, 1840. Thereafter for a short time the saints were given the privilege of performing this ordinance in the Mississippi river. Then on the 19th of January, 1841, the Prophet received a_ revelation giving further information on this subject. Touching the matter of baptism for the dead, the Lord said: "For a baptismal font there is not upon the earth, that they, my saints, may be baptized for those who are dead?for this ordinance belongeth to my house, and cannot be acceptable to me, only i in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me. But I command you, all ye my saints, to build a house (Nauvoo temple) unto me; and I grant unto you a sufficient time to build a house unto me, and during this time your baptisms shall be acceptable unto me." (D. And C. 124: 28-31) It is well known, of course, that even long before the temple was completed, the baptismal font was dedicated and extensively used. 4. But the revelation above quoted LESSON DEPARTMENT is plainly not limited in its purpose to the matter of baptism for the dead, as witness the following: "How shall your washings be acceptable unto me, except ye perform them in a house which you have built to my name? For, for_this cause I commanded Moses that he should build a tabernacle, that they should bear it with them in the wilderness, and to build a house in the land of promise, that those ordinances might be revealed which had been hid from before the world was. Therefore, verily I say unto you, that your anointings, and your washings, and your baptisms for the dead, and your solemn assemblies, and your memorials for your sacrifices by the sons of Levi, and for your oracles in your most holy places wherein you receive conversations, and your statutes and judgments, for the beginning of the revelations and foundation of Zion, and for the glory, honor, and en-_ dowment of all her municipals, are ordained by the ordinance of my holy house, which my people are always commanded to build unto my holy name. And verily I say unto you, let this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances therein unto my people; for I deign to reveal unto my church things which have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world, things which pertain to the dispensation of the fulness of times." (Verses 37-41) 5. Then the Lord makes the following significant promise: "I will show unto my servant Joseph all things pertaining to this house, and the priesthood thereof." (Verse 42) 6. The First Endowments. The precise date upon which the Lord fulfilled this promise to the Prophet does not appear to be of record. But inasmuch as the endowments were 649 given only slightly more than a year after the promise was made, it must have been within that time. Why the Prophet did not wait until the temple was completed is likewise unknown. He may have been spurred on by a desire to share the incomparable blessing with his brethren, or he may have feared that his life might be cut short by his ever-threatening enemies. More likely, it was the result of direct instruction from the Lord. 7. Nevertheless, on the fourth day of May, 1842, he gathered together a number of his faithful brethren in the room above his store and administered the endowment to them. Here is his own statement of what occurred: "I spent the day in the upper part of the store in council with General James Adams, of Springfield, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, Bishops Newel K. Whitney and George Miller, and President Brigham Young and Elders Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards, instructing them in the principles and order of the priesthood, attending to washings, anointings, endowments and the communication of Keys pertaining to the Aaronic Priesthood, and so on to the highest order of the Melchizedek Priesthood, setting forth the order pertaining to the Ancient of Days, and all those plans and principles by which any one is enabled to secure the fulness of those blessings which have been prepared for the Church of the First Born, and come up and abide in the presence of Eloheim in the eternal worlds. 8. "In this council was instituted the ancient order of things for the first time in these last days. And the communications I made to this council were of things spiritual, and to be received only by the spiritual minded; 650 and there was nothing made known to these men but what will be made known to all the Saints of the last days, so soon as they are prepared to receive, and a proper place is prepared to communicate them, even to the weakest of the Saints; therefore let the Saints be diligent in building the Temple and all houses which they have been, or shall hereafter be, commanded of God to build; and wait their time with patience in all meekness, faith, perseverance unto the end, knowing assuredly that all these things referred to in this council are always governed by the principle of revelation." (History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 1, 2) The Prophet states that on the following day he and his brother, Hyrum, received in turn from the others, the same that he had communicated to them the day before. 9. Extension Intended. That the Prophet planned that the endowment should be extended to all of the worthy members of the Church is plainly evident from the following statement, made by him at a conference of the church, April 8, 1844, scarcely three months before his assassination. At this time the baptismal font was dedicated and in use, but the temple was not yet completed. Here is his statement: "As soon as the temple and baptismal font are prepared, we calculate to give the Elders of Israel their washings and anointings, and to attend to those lost and more impressive ordinances, without which we cannot obtain celestial thrones. But there must be a holy place prepared for that purpose. There was a proclamation made during the time that the foundation of the temple was laid to the effect. Every man who wishes to save his father, mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, must go through all the ordinances for each of them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE separately the same as for himself, from baptism to ordination, washings, and anointings, and receive all the Keys and powers of the Priesthood, the same as for himself." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 319) 10. Concerning the Nauvoo temple Dr. James E. Talmage in his book, The House of the Lord, says: "By October, 1845, the building was so well advanced that large assemblies therein were possible. The general autumnal conference of tHe church for that year was held within the walls; and the congregation present on October 5th numbered fully five thousand souls. During December, 1845, and the early months of 1846, many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, for which purpose parts of the structure had been duly consecrated; but not until the end of April was the building as a whole ready for dedication." (p. 133) 11. Growth of the Work. It is a source of much satisfaction to the saints that a work of so small a beginning has expanded into such gigantic proportions. On that original day some six persons received their endowments. But although quite unsuited to the purpose, the Council Chamber above the store at once became a sacred shrine?the "first ordinance temple" proper in the church. Today the church has seven magnificent temples built and dedicated especially for this purpose. Many millions of dollars are invested in these structures. They are by far the most beautiful buildings in the localities in which they are situated. They represent the best efforts of the Latter-day Saints. They are regarded as most sacred, and only those who are faithful in living the Gospel of Jesus Christ to a high degree are permitted to enter. LESSON DEPARTMENT 12. At the time the first endowment ceremony was administered, the church had a population of, roughly, 25,000; today it has increased to nearly three-quarters of a million. On the occasion of the first endowment not a dozen persons were in attendance; at present thousands of people visit the temple daily. 13. Universality of the Requirement. It should be readily apparent to all sound thinking people that no goal can be reached without complying with the laws that make its attainment possible. If we would reach a distant objective, we must travel to it. If we would satisfy our hungry bodies, we must give them food. If we would attain desired intellectual heights, we must make the necessary efforts. There is no such thing as getting something for nothing in nature. There is no such thing as chance or fortuity; on the. Contrary, every result is based on the operation of law. The Lord, through Joseph Smith, states the matter thus: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated ? and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21) 14. As applied to the subject matter of this lesson these facts mean that if baptism is necessary to the salvation of any one of God's children?whether living or dead?it is similarly necessary to the salvation of all others; otherwise the requirement would not be based upon law, for it will be recalled, there are no exceptions to law. 15. Just how the great majority of Christian people reach the conclusion that God will make definite requirements of one individual?and 651 condemn him to everlasting punishment if he does not meet them? and not of another, is indeed difficult to understand. The attitude is not only unreasonable but disharmonious with every human experience. Perhaps the most outstanding achievement of modern investigation is the discovery of the invariability of law and the total absence of chance or fortuity. It is quite apparent, therefore, that if the temple endowment is requisite to the highest degree of human attainment for those who are alive, it is similarly requisite for those who are dead. 16. Nor does the fact that the work for the dead has to be done by some one else detract from the soundness of the argument. Cases of vicarious work are well-nigh universal. Attorneys act for their clients; boards of directors perform the business of the stockholders; the President of the United States officiates for the American people; and the Savior died for the sins of the world. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1, Have you any suggestions as to why the Lord permitted the temple endowment to be introduced at such a humble place? 2. Why in your judgment is it necessary to perform the ordinance of baptism for the dead in an especially prepared sanctuary? 3. Imagine the church without temples and without the temple endowment. What strength would it have lost? 4. What strength comes to the church through the extension of the temple endowment to the entire worthy membership, rather than to a few of its leaders? 5. Ascertain from your genealogical 652 committee the rate at which baptism for the dead is going forward in your ward. Your stake.  . Discuss the injustices that would arise if Divine requirements were not universal. Teachers' Topic (For March, 1936) "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold."?Proverbs 22:1. GOOD name comes as the result of living in accordance with high standards and ideals, some of which are: honesty, righteous living, trustworthiness, dependability, industry, true unselfishness, spirituality. Someone has said that the progress of a family, a city, a state or even a nation, depends upon the good name and character of the people. Every individual must make a name for himself. He may inherit a name that is good and honorable, but only by sustaining it with his own righteous effort?that of a good and acceptable life, can he retain or hold it. Even though once established through a lifetime of living in accordance with the highest and noblest standards and ideals, a good name may become tarnished by a lapse of interest and effort in maintaining it, or it may actually be destroyed by bad behavior, dishonesty or evil doing. A good name may be injured by one's associates either intentionally or thoughtlessly. To injure a name or a character is a most serious matter. Such a wrong may never be righted. A good name is its own reward. A good name, with all those factors which produce it, brings satisfaction, contentment, peace, joy and success. In fact it brings that loving favor which is preferable to silver and gold, or any amount of piled up wealth. Andrew Carnegie once said, "I would prefer to lose my wealth rather than my good name and character which I have tried hardest to build and maintain." What a satisfaction and reward comes to the man or woman whose name inspires confidence and trust, whose name stands for all those virtues which men regard as most important and worthwhile! What a satisfaction and comfort comes to their friends and associates because of this good name, and the good life and character which upholds and sustains it! The testimony in court of a witness who bears a good name has great weight, and counts for much. In the financial world a good name is like magic. The importance and desirability of a good name should always be paramount in our lives. In our quest for success, which we _ sometimes think comes from position and power and worldly wealth, let us not lose sight of this unchangeable truth that "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold." Topics and Questions for Discussion 1. Why is a good name "rather to be chosen than great riches?" 2. How long does it take to build up a good name? 3. How long does it take to destroy a good name? 4, Why should one be careful never to besmirch another's good name? 5. Memorize: "Good name in man or woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse, steals trash; tis something, nothing; *Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed." ?Othello?Shakespeare. Work and Business The picture of the wicker chair opposite page 45 of Handicraft for Everywoman is of one in which President Louise Y. Robison rocked her babies. It was worn and almost useless until Mrs. Beeley found it. Now it is repaired and refinished and will become a treasured heirloom to be enjoyed by her children. SUGGESTIVE STUDY ON HE responsibility of the consumer for the kinds of goods on the market, and for better conditions of labor and fair wages is being emphasized. Her demands may work for or against rapid change in fashion and supply and her manner of living may effect the demand and hence the value of commodities. The peculiar type of thought and emotion one has in buying some articles, especially clothing, plays a bigger part in her wise selection than her intelligence. One of the important reasons for success in modern advertising is that these very human traits have been carefully, studied by advertisers and their methods adapted to take advantage of the same. Can not these same methods be used in an effort to further the use of standards, grades and proper labeling. In trying to make selection whether over the counter or in catalogues one has a feeling of helplessness about deciding which item best suits her needs. On pages 167 and 185 references are given of sources of information about Basket Weaving and Willow Craft. Pages 42 to 45 tells how to refinish Reed and Wicker Furniture. It is worthwhile to know how and to do this sort of work. Try it. CONSUMER PROBLEMS Grades and descriptions are so much alike that she has to rely chiefly on price, an indirect measure of quality. Evaluation of Guides Which Most Consumers Use A. Advertising. 1. Has only few if any definite statements regarding quality of products. 2. Most appealing by use of bright attractive colors, by endorsements of famous people, love of beauty, vanity, pride, rather, than by actual value of goods. 3. Limited information not dependable. B. Advice of Clerks. 1. Majority of clerks do not give accurate information regarding quality of merchandise. 2. Clerks do not always agree on information given out from time to time. 3. Most of them do not deliberately misinform?they lack training. LESSON DEPARTMENT 653 654 C. Trademarks?Guarantees. 1. Because trademarks give no information one has to rely entirely on company's integrity. 2. Unless guarantees are stated in clear definite terms they have no value. 3. Labels differ in amount of information they give but some valuable help is obtained if everything on label is read. D. Price. 1. Varies too widely. 2. Most expensive articles not always best in quality. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions for Discussion 1. Evaluate the guides most women use in household buying. 2. How much technical knowledge of commodities is practical for the average housewife? 3. Why are manufacturers and producers reticent about accepting a program of standards and specifications for consumer buying? 4. What would be the advantage of the housewife in buying by specification? 5. How does demand in certain commodities effect their value and price? 6. In what way is the consumer responsible for labor conditions and fair wages? Literature (For Third Week in March) ADVENTURES IN READING El Dorado "I am part of all I have met, Yet all experience is an arch where-thru Gleams that untravell?d world, whose margin fades Forever and forever when I move." -Tennyson THE world moves apace but the wonders still remain for knights seeking an El Dorado. Some to the four corners of the earth go to satisfy their yearnings; some to the misty past to discover pages unworded and heroes unsung; some find magic enough in the throbbing humanity of a great city's heart. If perchance to the quest comes the reward of finding a hidden meaning to the wonder of it all, the quest of El Dorado is well paid. Rudyard Kipling?Literary Vagabond Rudyard Kipling, a modern Ulysses sailed beyond the sunset. India, Africa, and America were his horizons; ?drinking life to the lees" he sailed home to his beloved Sussex Downs to dream and to tell tales and to sing songs. So widespread were his travels and so deep his understanding of the peoples that he met, it is said that if you follow him about in his books you will see the world and you will know better how to read the book of mankind. In Bombay, "where the world end steamers meet" Rudyard Kipling was born in 1865. His father was a professor of architecture in the School of Art in Bombay, while his beautiful, gifted mother was sister LESSON DEPARTMENT to the wife of Sir Edward Paynter and the wife of Sir Edmund Burne-Jones, distinguished Englishmen and artists. Like all Anglo-Indian children, ?Ruddie" early learned the language of his "ayar," his native nurse, and the stories of Shir, Hari, and Mowgli. At an early age the boy was sent to England to school a lonely "Wee Willie Winkie." After a brilliant record with well-earned prizes for literature at the United Service Military College, Kipling returned to India. In 1883 he became attached to the editorial staff of the Civil and Military Gazette at Lahore. After varied service for the paper, the young journalist begged permission to go to the frontier to write up "Tommy Atkins." He came back with material for the well-known "Departmental Ditties" and "Barrack-Room Ballads;" also an understanding of animal and human nature to be later. Fused into the wonderful "Jungle Books" and "Plain Tales from the Hills." Finding no sale for his stories, Kipling left for London visiting Hong Kong, San Francisco, and New York on the way. Soon the rugged honesty of theme and expression caught the attention of London readers and Kipling was established as a teller of tales. With the publication of "The Man Who Would Be King," the vagabond went on his way again, round the world once more. In Vermont he met and married Miss Carolyn Balestier, 1892. For five years a home on the mountain slopes of Brattleboro, Vermont, was made. Here two children were born and many of the famous tales were written for their nursery days; also "Captain Courageous,"' a stirring tale of the Grand Banks and the sailors, was written. In 1897 he left the United States a South Africa and later for Engand, 655 As one of the most venerated figures of contemporary literature, Kipling has been honored as rector of St. Andrews, Scotland, and winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1907. When the World War came, Kipling gave his son and a record of his sorrow in a small book of verse "The Years Between." Today he is the one writer of English who satisfies two audiences, the multitude who read to be amused; and the cultured minority who read for art's sake. Devoted to the quiet home. Life on Sussex Downs, Mr. Kipling is still deeply in earnest about his writing?''not an Amos or an Isaiah" but as Irvin S. Cobb found him, not "Englishy English," but a cosmopolitan. Kipling's Place in Literature It is said that when Kipling arrived in the literary circles of the Puritanical and Classical, book lovers were shocked, the tone and the flavor of his expression offended. But in almost lightning time, his songs and tales were welcome because the world knew his Mulvaney and Gunga Din; they understood his "Tom-, my Atkins" and "Danny Deever;" they could carry the rhythm of "Mandelay;" they recognized the world-wide sympathy of a manysided genius. Today Rudyard Kipling stands, the one English writer whom criticism cannot injure because his followers and his friends are legion. His best prose works are "Puck of Pook's Hill," a romance of the days of Roman Rule in early Britain, "Kim," "Plain Tales from the Hills," and "The Jungle Stories." The best creations are "Mowgli" and "Tommy Atkins;" this is as faithful a creation as Shakespeare's Falstaff. To the world, for many years, Rudyard Kipling was a ballad-singer because of his "Barrack-Room 656 Ballads" and the "Departmental Ditties." Then came the awakening of the English people to the realization that he was something more. The poem "Recessional" was accepted as one of the significant poems of the age. The whole world accepted the truth "we are neither children nor gods, but men in a world of men" and must be reminded as such "lest we forget." "The Recessional" was the Jubilee Ode and all the British Empire was celebrating. But in no way did the ode celebrate victory, but emphasized the truth expressed by Mathew Arnold that the English National character was built on an idealism that proceeded from the Hebrew mind rather than from Greek thought and from the influence of the Reformation rather than from the Renaissance,?it was less concerned with intelligence than with conduct. Kipling brought this truth to the view of all by the words of the prayer which closed the "Recessional."' "God of our fathers, known to all? Lord of our far-flung battle line? Lord, God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget." In later poems Kipling expressed more definitely his religious belief? the religion of human endeavor. Self-knowledge, self-reverence, and' self-control are embodied in the beautiful poem "If," a rigorous code expressed in the simplest language. In the poem, "Life's Handicaps," not as well known, we note: "By my own work, before the night, Great overseer, I made my prayer." In a poem not sufficiently wellknown Kipling sees man perfected: "And only the Master shall praise us, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and only the Master shall blame; And no one shall work for money, and no one shall work for fame,. And each for the joy of working, and each in his separate star Shall draw the thing as he sees it, for the God of things as they are." Kipling's religion is a religion of action, one the Mulvaneys, Godsbys, and Stricklands can live, a religion for the cloisters of the day' s work. From the post-war poems in the volume, "The Years Between," "Zion," "Mary's Son" and "Gethsemane," bear testimony to the depth of religious feeling to which this poet's expression is tuned. Alfred Noyes?Knight of El Dorado Alfred, Noyes, melodious singer, whose poetical recreation is hunting with Robin Hood in Sherwood Forest, whose quest, a literary El Dorado, and who gives his postal address "in care of Oberon," is one of the most youthful spirits in contemporary literature. Alfred Noyes is truly a man. Abounding in physical vigor sparkling with personal magnetism, and mellowed with humility of spirit, his ballads and tales have brought a freshness to contemporary literature which is more than stimulation, it is contagious. Born in Staffordshire, England, in 1880 he early set out to make a living with his pen. Educated at Oxford where he rowed with a winning crew, his versatility is still a slogan. He has not grown old and wise with the years, for he still sees beauty in the twilight and can hear the music of the wind in the heather. With vivid imagination Alfred Noyes has recreated stirring scenes and romantic figures of the past For his purpose he has made many LESSON DEPARTMENT experiments with meter and rhyme. He has been likened unto a deft musician in command of a fully equipped organ for the shades of sound and feeling he produces in his songs. Tennyson and Swinbourne, Noyes accepts as his literary masters. Experience with the British fleet during the World War gave him the raciness of the sea. The classroom has added much to his human understanding for as a lecturer on modern poetry at Oxford in 1914 and Princeton in 1923 he was more than successful. It is said when Alfred Noyes read poetry at Princeton he held his class like a boat race. Students under the spell of his fine voice and dramatic interpretation fairly sat on the edges of their benches. His philosophy of teaching?the desirable thing to do is not to set students to writing verse but to living and loving it. To hear Alfred Noyes read "The Highwayman" is never to be forgotten, so say his students. Every year marks new things from the pen of Alfred Noyes, some of them lovable simple things, some pretentious, some mere poetical recreations, some deeply significant in thought, but all marked with melody. "The Tales of a Mermaid Tavern" is one of the best known poems. The reader can almost see the immortal Elizabethans as they brought nightly to their rendezvous the news of the day, gossip of Elizabeth's court, the latest success of Bill Shakespeare and his actors, and the progress of England on the high seas. We can almost hear the old tavern shake with laughter as Ben Johnson with quip and satire passes comment on men and affairs, or disarms Bacon with his ponderous pedantry. Marlowe, Drayton, Dekker, Beaumont, Fletcher, Chapman, Raleigh, Bacon, all take part but perhaps most interesting is the literary gossip, the gossip of the theatres, because most of the Mermaid's guests were interested in the drama of the day. "Forty Singing Seamen" is a ballad romance using the yarns of Prester John, a wandering sailor. The swinging melody is pungent of the sea and its adventures. In the "Highwayman" Noyes reveals another characteristic, the use of figurative language and repetition. The imagery is colorful and the cadence irresistible. "Drake" is a long metrical tale almost epical in nature. In this very ambitious poem Alfred Noyes has recorded the deeds of the great English seaman, Francis Drake. The poem is epical inasmuch as it records the epoch making spirit of the Elizabethan Age, the spirit of discovery and colonization which led to the expansiveness of the British Empire. In "Sherwood" the traditions of Robin Hood were collected and reproduced in romantic style. With all the variety of expression noted it is by two simple poems that the man and the poet lie best revealed "Newspaper Bay" and 'The Barrel Organ." Of the "Barrel-Organ" William Lyon Phelps says: "Out of the mechanical grinding of the hand-organ, with the accompaniment of city omnibuses, we get the very breath of spring in almost intolerable sweetness. The poem affects the head, the heart, and the feet. I defy any man or woman to read it without surrendering to the magic of the lines, the magic of old memories, the magic of the poet." It is sunset and an organ-grinder with his organ is on one of London's busiest corners. Tune after tune?some sad, some gay?sounds forth over the din of the traffic. The hurrying crowds must listen to the tunes?business men, clerk, laborer, society woman, 658 varsity man, loafer, woman of the street?each passer-by is moved in his own way by the music. Each lives over the younger, happier days which are now "in the land where the dead dreams go.' The changing of the tune and the changing moods of the listeners is skillfully suggested by changing rhymes and rhythms. Between each tune is the lilting refrain: "Come down to Kew in lilactime." A new book of poems, "The Book of the Earth," is one of the most intense works attempted by the poet. In it the scheme follows the best expression of the ages. Beginning with the "Creation of the Earth" the poet sees and knows "that to the Inscrutable, Man must bow his head." Pythagorus, Aristotle, represent Greek culture and its gifts to man; the lives of the early Christian saints, the art of the Renaissance, the beginnings of science, all are noted. All are torch-bearers of civilization. Of more than passing interest in the volume is the chapter "Goethe, the Prophet." After drinking of the wisdom of the world he was taught the meaning of it all, he was given "A glimpse of the unknown light beyond the world." In the Epilogue to the poem is found the most exalted expression: "Man is not exiled New every morning the creative word Moves upon chaos. Grows young Here, now the eternal miracle is renewed Now, and forever, God makes heaven and earth." Yea, our God Alfred Noyes has never assumed the role of a philosopher in his poems, yet his message to the world rings with the same simple directness as that of his national contemporary, Rudyard Kipling. For him God is still obvious in all things, "The world is all a fairy tale, but Oh, the tale is true!" To his generation he gives the thought: "Kingdoms melt away like snow, Gods are spent like wasting flames, Hardly the new peoples know their Divine, thrice worshipped names, At the last great hour of all, when thou makest all things new, Father hear thy children call, Let not love go too." Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. A Literary El Dorado, Kipling's India. Kipling's Characters. Reading: "The Recessional." Selections from the poems of Kipling. Retold Story: "Wee Willie Winkie." Alfred Noyes, Balladeer. Selections from the poems of Alfred Noyes. 2. 3. 4. 5. Guide to Reading A. "Puck of Pook's Hill" and "Captain Courageous." Kipling will appeal to all boys. B. "Sherwood," Noyes. The spirit of Robin Hood is revived in this series of ballads. C. "Tales of a Mermaid Tavern," Noyes. The lovers of Shakespeare will enjoy this glimpse of the great literary figures of the Elizabethan Age. D. "The Years Between," Kipling. The volume of poems written after the World War reveals to the reader the depth of understanding which made Kipling the LESSON DEPARTMENT poet of "The Recessional." E. "Wee Willie Winkie." 659 A story for the mothers of lonely little boys. Social Service (Fourth Week in March) LESSON V MACHINE DOMINATION OF THE PRESENT AGE Text: Civic Sociology, E. A. Ross, Chapters 3 and 4 THE two chapters used as a basis for this lesson are to be applied in the following way: 1. To understand to what extent our lives are controlled and dominated by the machine production of goods. 2. To understand the social forces drawing young people from rural to industrial city life. 3. To help young people to adjust intelligently to the problems of urban and rural life. Of the recent social trends in American life perhaps the reorganization of industry is one of the most fundamental. The remarkable growth of cities is a part of the great industrial revolution. With the development of the machine age the entire pattern of life has changed, and with the reorganization of industry a new era has come into being. The home, no longer the center of economic production for the family, is often deserted by father, mother, and children for the lure of the pay envelope. Since many machines can be operated by children as efficiently as adults, and at but a fraction of the cost, the evil of child-labor has become prevalent, and especially in industrial centers. Factories and industries compete with the home for the time of the mother of a family. Economic necessity often allows no other choice. These industrial demands have brought about a thorough redistribution of population. There has been a constant decrease in the percentage of the people engaged in agriculture, and a rapid growth in industrial life in cities as a basis of organized industry. In 1790, about three per cent of the people of the United States lived in cities; today, over half of the people live in cities. The proportion in each state varies according to the amount of manufacturing done in that state. The relative importance of agricultural and manufacturing industries in their demands upon workers in the different states is shown by the following table of representative states, giving the distribution of population for 1930, according to the 1930 census. The table shows that a majority of the people of the country are living under the influences of the city. Per cent of people living in State Rural City Cities Utah........ 241,583 266.264 52% California. 1,516,655 4,160.596 73 Idaho....... 315,525 129,507 29 Oregon...... 464.040 489.746 51 Washington 678,856 884.539 56 Illinois...... 1,994,927 5.635.727 74 New York... 2,066,114 10,521,952 83 Rhode Island. 52.068 635,420 92 New Mexico. 316,501 106,816 25 Arizona..... 285,717 149.856 34 Nevada..... 56,594 34,464 38 Colorado.... 515,909 519.882 50 Wyoming 155,468 70,097 31 United States 53,820,223 68,754,823 56 660 Figures are not available showing the composition and characteristics, nor the distribution of population in Canada and Mexico. The total population of Canada is 10,376,786; and of Mexico, 16,552,722. The demand for semi-skilled labor because of machine production, has brought about this constant migration from the country to the city. As pointed out in the text, the movement is chiefly among the young people and those of middle age, while the older and extremely young people are being left behind. The city, therefore, has such a large proportion of young people that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to find occupation. The progressive domination of the machine age is making the vocational adjustment of these people an increasing hazard. Formerly it was taken for granted that the boy would follow in the footsteps of his father and the girl would get married and become a home-maker. The resultant vocational adjustment of the young people is, therefore, a major responsibility resting upon parents. This responsibility assumes two phases: first, that of finding a specialized occupation for which the individual boy or girl is suited; and second, that of providing the proper education and training which fits him for success in this occupation. The difficulties which grow out of the improvement of processes and methods of industry, and the invention of labor-saving machinery present another problem which must be met. The invention of new labor-saving machines constantly displaces thousands of workers. This displacement often comes late in life after a worker has spent the greater part of a life-time learning a trade or occupation, and adjustment to another occupation is extremely difficult. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The first problem can be solved through a scheme of vocational guidance and counseling on the part of schools and parents. No longer can the son of a craftsman expect to follow the trade of his father by being an apprentice, a journeyman, and then a skilled artisan. The situation is described thus: "For the great majority of young men and women the problem of finding an occupation is no longer simple. Only a very small percentage? even of the farmer's children?follow the parental example. In this rapidly changing industrial life today such a plan would not be possible for the majority, even if it were desirable. Consequently, most of our boys and girls look out upon the confusing and changing multitude of narrow, specialized occupational niches of modern industry and business, and through an awkward trial-and-error process seek the jobs that pay. What skill they happen to acquire, if they are fortunate enough to acquire any, they pick up in the course of wandering from one job to another. In this process many become "floaters"?on the job today and gone tomorrow. Many dissatisfied with their lot, bitter against the capitalistic system which they think keeps them down, find a sort of religious zeal in a war on capitalism."?Gillin, Dittmer, Colbert: Social Problems, p. 307. From the point of view of those who live in the country, perhaps there has been too great an emphasis on the social and economic problems of the city. However, an important cause of the rapid growth of cities is the prevailing rural policy. If young people leave their country environment for the lure of the city, it is because rural life is not adequate to the needs of youth. The rural problem is the counterpart of the city problem. The community, to hold its own in the eyes of youth, must assume the responsibility of supplying wholesome amusement, recreational activities, and the building of a community spirit. The labor of a young man on the farm should be just as productive as in a factory. However, he often fails to receive the tangible reward which he receives for his industrial labor in the city. New lands of a desirable nature no longer being available, a father can neither give his son a parcel of land as a reward for his boyhood labor; nor can the boy acquire it on his own part, as formerly. Therefore the old farm must either support a new generation of families, or the sons must seek employment elsewhere. Agricultural life is faced with the need of more scientific and technical methods of farming, and of more efficient and costly equipment. Also, the problems of marketing are becoming so acute that some of the best thought of the nation is now being devoted to this problem. Agricultural producers must learn the lessons of cooperative marketing which are so well demonstrated by manufacturing associations. A reorganization of rural, economic, and social institutions must be accomplished to compete with the forces of the city. The educational opportunities, as a basic foundation for life, must be enlarged to equal that given in the city. Much is already being done through consolidated schools and state equalization funds, but 661 further vigilance is essential to ultimate success. The high cost of land, the large expenditures of capital that modern operation requires makes the problem of ownership extremely difficult. "Closely cooperating farm communities may do much in the way of common joint ownership and use of machinery, community supplying of scientific knowledge in the shape of expert advisers, and community cooperation in obtaining the necessary credit for young farmers without means to begin the ownership of a farm. Something of this kind is being attempted by the State of California, the State providing the land, supplying the capital, equipment, and expert advisers, the owner paying for his farm by annual payments at a low rate of interest covering a long period of years.... Without some modification there is danger of a rural tenant peasantry supplanting altogether the independent farm-owning population which has been the basis of much of the best life of America."?Beach, An Introduction To Sociology, p. 257. Activities Make a study of the vocational help that has been given to the children in your own family with the view of helping them to adjust to the problem of earning a living. Unless the inquiry shows that something very definite on the part of the home and the school is being done, is it not true that we are negligent of our full duty? Discuss the results of your inquiry in class. 662 Mission Lessons Health Lessons, 1935-36 CONSTIPATION LESSON VI. THE waste product of our food is stored in the large bowel, just as we store the waste product of the kitchen in the garbage can. Nature maintains this living storage receptacle for much the same reason that we keep the garbage can, so that waste products may accumulate in a harmless condition until they can be conveniently disposed of. The food in our stomach and intestine sustains a larger and larger number of bacteria as it moves onward, until the bulk of the waste, after the food element is mostly absorbed, is made up of remnants of food and bacteria in about equal amounts. These bacteria live on the remnants of our food, and many of them serve a useful purpose in the digestive process. But many of them are harmful, and they cause more damage if they are permitted to remain an undue time in the bowel after they have served their purpose. We absorb poisons from them which are detrimental to our health, and which may cause serious illness if we allow them to remain in the intestine at the body temperature, and in the presence of moisture. It is nature's intent that this waste should be eliminated from the body at least every 24 hours. If it is allowed to remain longer than that some mischief is sure in time to follow. Many people are afflicted with constipation. This may be of any degree of severity, from a retention of two or three days, to one of many days, and sometimes of a number of weeks. People of sedentary life are more likely to develop it. Heredity also has much to do with it. Like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many other ailments it seems to run in families. But by far the most common cause is neglect to attend regularly and at the proper time to the calls of nature. Improper selection of food may also be a causative factor. Such articles as cheese, strong tea with the tannic acid it contains, concentrated meat foods, etc., are causative agents. Failure to drink enough water is another cause. To some variable extent a large percentage of the population of any country suffers from chronic constipation. It may cause indigestion, anemia, headaches, etc., and predispose them by its devitalizing influence to the more serious conditions of high blood pressure, kidney disease, etc. It also causes nervous troubles, especially the milder types of melancholia, and it sometimes seems to be the main cause back of insanity. By irritating the bowel over long periods of time it may be a fruitful cause of cancer of the colon. How shall we cure ourselves of this serious condition if we are unfortunate as to have developed it! We should take plenty of water. Now one will ask what is plenty of water? An average amount would be something like this: two glasses before breakfast, two before lunch, two before dinner, and one on retiring. In the summer when we are perspiring we need more, and in the winter less. A larger person would need more than a smaller person. Again the person who has chronic constipation should eat freely of fruits of most any kind, and vegetables, especially those like cabbage, string beans, and celery which have an abundance of indigestible cellulose in them. Brown bread, graham, or whole wheat, will be better than white bread for such a person. The writer of this article knew one prominent man who cured himself of chronic constipation, after almost everything else had been tried for years, by taking for his breakfast ordinary bran prepared like a cereal with milk and sugar, and taking no other food for the morning meal. All these things may be helps, but the real cure for the great majority of people who have chronic constipation is of quite a different nature. There are many muscles concerned in the evacuation of the bowel, and all must act in unison if the result is to be satisfactory. The muscles of our bodies are all capable of being trained to certain habits, if we persist in that training patiently and long enough. We should attend to that function once a day, and it should always be at the same time of the day whether there is any desire or not. The best time is after a meal, say the breakfast meal, because food in the stomach starts peristaltic waves along the bowel, and they move the content onward. Immediately after the breakfast meal, then we should task ourselves to attend to the bowel function, whether we have any desire or not. We should not miss any single day, because we are training the muscles of our bowel to a habit, and repetition at regular intervals is the way to form habits. We should never be in a hurry about this function. It is wise to take with you a book or a paper, and take plenty of time entertaining yourself with what you are reading. There are very few cases of chronic constipation that may not be permanently cured by this method. But it must be LESSON DEPARTMENT fail of success. 663 carried out intelligently and persistently. After a time it will be such a mental habit that it becomes automatic in our daily routine, and requires little if any effort. The use of purgatives and laxatives for constipation should be avoided wherever possible. Instead of curing the condition, they often tend to make it worse. They may give immediate relief but entail a weakened condition of the bowel which makes the constipation more stubborn than it was before. The mineral oils are least objectionable if any laxative must temporarily be used. There is the same objection to enemas, which should only be taken as an emergency measure. If we start out with the dominant idea that we are going to establish a definite habit, and work persistently and regularly to that end we will not fail. It is the one who gets discouraged easily and fails to persevere that will Many, many people are struggling under the shadow because of this disease, when they might come out into the sunshine of happiness just by a little persistent effort. Questions Name the general causes of chronic constipation. What other diseases are liable to follow in the wake of chronic constipation? State what you can about the diet which should be followed by the subject of chronic constipation. What about purgatives and laxatives for the subject of chronic constipation? Describe the habit cure of chronic constipation. State how constipation may cause cancer. Why should the evacuation of the bowel follow the taking of a meal? Thoughts at Eventide WOMEN'S WORK By George H. Clark As we look back upon the years When women's rights were few, And men assumed to be their peers In all there was to do; We recognize an unjust pride That ever made it so, For, truly, women side by side With man, should work and grow. The first great women's work began In eighteen forty-two, Among that faithful Mormon band Then living in Nauvoo; 'Twas there the prophet Joseph Smith, Through heavenly inspiration, Called them in and blessed them with A women's organization. The prophet clearly did foretell What women's work should be, They should endeavor to excel In works of charity; Should nurse the sick, feed the poor, And comfort those bereft, Then visit oft from door to door Lest needy ones be left. And of each member whom they chose The prophet also prayed, That confidences, when imposed, Should never be betrayed; That faith and works and trust in God And love of all that's good, Must ever faithfully be taught To perfect womanhood. From this beginning, then so small Has grown a work so great, That "Relief Society" withal Is known in every state; In times of war or times of peace It struggles just the same, To bring humanity relief That's worthy of the name. Yes, over seas as well as here It's work of love has gone, And while mortality endures It will continue on; Till people everywhere may know That when this race began, Women were designed to go Hand in hand with man. YUCCAS Las Candelabras del Nuestre Senor (The Candlesticks of Our Lord) By Elzada C. Brinkerhoff You stand in ever solemn piety, You faintly tinted candlesticks?ten score. For Christ, the Son, who died and rose once more, You live, an emblem to eternity. I think to happiness you hold the key. Your shrined spires grow not on verdant shore; The parched desert sod one must explore To find a blossom half so fair to see O you, in never-ending reverence, Keep sweet incensed cups to sky upturned. On altar hills you stand a multitude And always in a reverent attitude As if to worship God you'd early learned? You shame my idly slumbering conscience.