EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. APRIL, 1915. No. 4. THE SCOPE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The Power Who can measure the heights of love, the breadth of of charity, or sound the depths of knowledge? Organized He only who created the universe. And He alone Womanhood. may compute the majesty and the power of the Society which was established in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. The scope of our work, the possibilities of our development, are bounded only by woman's capacities and woman's eventualities. The Relief Society is as broad as eternity, as far-reaching as love. Any woman of excellent character may achieve membership in the Society. While all that is true, all that is beautiful, all hope, faith and mercy are enclosed within its boundaries. All Women Many women in the world, in pagan as well as Searching in Christian lands, have felt the impetus of the for Light. key of light and progress turned for women by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, April 28, 1842. These earnest women have been and are reaching out for truth, for light, and for beauty. They have organized themselves into associations and clubs for educational, musical, patriotic, agricultural, artistic, literary, and general cultural purposes. Lacking the gifts and blessings of the gospel, they still have much that is good, true, and beautiful. A Strong In common, with others, we too have felt the Attraction. attraction of this organized movement for so-called "uplift" among the women of the world, and have joined hands with them across the mountains and across the seas. We have received some light and help from this contact, and we have also given much in return. There are many praiseworthy things in the Councils and Clubs that cover the social world outside this Church; and although some economic students criticize the club movement severely, we accord to all women who are struggling upward our mead of praise and encouragement. The Scope The women of this Church have a wonderful opportunity of our Work just now to open up new channels of is Limitless. activity, wider fields of opportunity in the boundaries of this Society. There are no limitations to our possible growth and development. We find admirable truth germs in the literary studies carried on in some clubs; we discover elements of rare joy in the art lessons given by some other club; while the patriotic societies, both at home and abroad, certainly are doing a good work in fostering a love for history and genealogy among their members. Then why not open up in the Relief Society all of these avenues of culture and education, by establishing departments for the study of all these truths and beauties of life and nature? This Society possesses the principles of light, hope, and education for women ? let us go to, and develop those powers into a perfected and divinely appointed whole ? a Society which will be an auxiliary indeed to the priesthood of the Church of Christ. Note: The illustrations for this month are from photographs, kindly furnished by Kimball and Richards Company of this city. The Circular printed in the March number is now bound up separately, with names and addresses of the General Board and Stake Presidents added, and is on sale at Headquarters; price 10 cents. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II ? Baptism. (a) The initial ceremony of the Church. (b) A subject of controversy. (c) The Savior's example. ? (d) A universal requirement. (e) Little children exempt. (f) Early Christian views. 1. What is the third principle of the Gospel? 2. Let some convert from another church describe the mode of baptism practiced in that church. 3. What do you think of sprinkling as a form of baptism? 4. What was the Savior's attitude towards baptism? 5. kind? Why should baptism be universal in its application to man6. What can you say of infant baptism? 7. About when did the Catholic church change the mode of baptism The Initial Ceremony. ? As faith is the first principle of the Gospel of Christ, so baptism is the initial ceremony. Baptism is twofold, corresponding to the soul, its subject, which is both spiritual, and temporal. It signifies for that soul rebirth and illumination. "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." ''Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God" (John 3:3, 5). So said the King of that kingdom, the only One empowered to prescribe conditions upon which men might become