
[handwritten] Mary Garber

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1878.		No. 1.﻿


[For the EXPONENT.
		SONG OF THE WEARY.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.

Oh! night! calm night, iet thy silence abound,
	When past are the toils of day,
Come, night, draw thy curtains around,
	That the weary may rest away.

The night! O how sweet is its calm,
	Its silence, its dreams, and its sleep;
Sweet nature's restorative balm
	To those—who've no vigils to keep! 

The night!—What a peaceful recess,
	When the spirit is having an "out,"
And sweet ministers hover to bless,
	And angels are flitting about.

The weary and worn are at rest,
	With the curtain of night drawn around,
And none to intrude or molest,
	They are hidden from sight or from sound.

The morning is sweet, very sweet—
	But it often brings sorrow and care;
But night does the worn spirit greet,
	And lulls it from even despair.

Away into dreamland we go,
	The absent are with us again;
Even death is bereft of its woe,
	For it seems they have come to remain.

All barriers are taken away—
	We are free as the bird on the hill,
There's no night, all is beautiful day,
	And the spirit succumbs to the will.

Then come with thy wondrous dreamland,
	Yes, Morpheus, come quickly to me;
Touch mine eyes with thy mystical hand.
	And thine own till the morning I'll be.

Oh! sleep, balmy sleep, thou art twin
	With thy brother, whom mortals call death;
But we feel thou art compact with him,
	To merely suspension of breath;

And that all will respire again,
	In a world renovated and fair,
This knowledge soothes every pain,
	And swallows up grief and despair.

We'll look upon death as a sleep,
	And recline in his arms as a babe;
Our angel sweet vigils will keep,
	Till triumphant we rise from the grave.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

			BY HANNAH T. KING..

	How often amid the trials of daily life,
the body becomes weary and worn, and the
spirit in its strong sympathy, partakes of
the same, loses its buoyancy and ceases for
a time to be a helpmeet unto it; circumstan-
ces often engender that entire prostration;
we are poor, that is in the current coin of
the realm, and we are crippled even in our
best efforts and affections; our spirit com-
plains, we think God has forgotten us, the
mind grows gloomy and despondent, our
path seems hedged up—we cannot make an
opening. We know bread eaten by labor is
sweet, and only that bread do we desire;
but where is the field? where the vineyard?
every place is full; is the earth becoming
over populated? or does machinery swallow
up the labor of the Saints? The earth is
full of riches and many are reveling in
them. David, even in his days was puz-
zled, and could not solve the problem, and
Scripture expressly says "the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,

[Column 2]
nor riches to men of wisdom." Must
we then fall back on destiny? yes, sure-
ly there is much in pre-destination, we
cannot shut our eyes to the fact, though it
has a bound beyond which we will not own
it can, may, or shall pass. Wealth, mighty
lever as it is, cannot give happiness, or
health, or heart or brain; it is merely an
auxiliary, and a powerful one too, and great
is the responsibility of the possessor. We
may be rich in all things but "money,"
which Scripture calls "filthy lucre," to that,
I say nothing, lest we clash in our opinion;
it is the current that bears the world along,
and only when linked with vice, can it be
really called so. But let us look at our cir-
cumstances, boldly, daringly, for it requires
an indomitable courage at times to look
them in the face unflinchingly, unmurmur-
ingly, and see it there are not some frag-
ments left, out of which we can organize
a shadow of the heaven it is the right of
all to possess. If the sun of our domestic
system is under so heavy a cloud, that we
cannot see clear enough, we will light a
lamp, and if we have no lamp, then a can-
dle, and if we have not a candle then a
"farthing rush-light," surely we can find
that, and by its little light we will peer in-
to the darkness of the present hour. Now
we will not recall what we do not now pos-
sess, but review the blessings wo actually
do possess "pro tem;" all are welcome to
our rushlight and can make their own ex-
amination, at the same time with us. Has
nature given us a sound mind in a sound
body? If so what untold wealth is ours in
this one possession; no money can buy it,
no position bequeath it; God and our pro-
genitors have bestowed it upon us. Tell
me not that a pale white face is pretty and
lady-like; away with such vitiated nonsense.
A face I know well rises up before my mind,
where the rose and the lily unite, but the
rose holds her place with queenly su-
premacy. I never look upon that face but
its bloom seems to invigorate me, and I
gather as much of it as I can with my eyes,
and my gaze is not rudeness, but love. Yes,
health is beauty in man or woman, "good my
Lord;" and this health enables us in a thou-
sand ways to make our heaven; enables us
to work—work till we clear away the bram-
bles and thorns and noxious weeds that ob-
struct our path; though by the bye this
very health is imperative in its demands
and is loud in her calls for the Lever move-
ment. But of itself it enables us to plant
and sow, and reap every day, yes every
night, gather in a harvest of some good
things worth preserving in our grand store-
house of heart and brain; enables us to
make order prominent wherever we move;
to prepare bread and all food so well, that
even the sickly may be tempted to eat, and
the appetite is encouraged. Cooking food
deliciously should be placed with the fine
arts, for it is a talent that is not thrown
broadcast over the earth; it has to be ac-
quired by long and close study, and then it
never becomes a science without a natural
tact and talent in that branch.  Woman's
life is an unwritten philosophy, and this
art is certainly among the unwritten.
	Health enables us to walk,—yes, away
with the carriages except for invalids, or

[Column 3]
people over eighty; riding continually in
carriages is destructive to health and vigor,
both mentally and physically; let us do our
own errands, and then we shall have an ob-
ject, for an object is the inspiration which
we need. The blessing of friends must
never be forgotten; they help to make our
sunshine, and our happy hours, we love
them and desire their association in the
grand eternities where we shall get better
acquainted than in this ephemeral exist-
ence, for how little we know of the inner
life of each other in our present associa-
tions, even the nearest. We have little
time to elaborate; life is a rush, railroad
pace, "coupled [-]ngines." Nature, beauti-
ful nature! is an open book that blesses us
every day, and is ever around us; I may
have no garden, but my neighbor's is love-
ly with beautiful flowers and shrubs, and
fruit; it is as much mine as his, as far as
the eye can make it so; I can gaze upon it
in perfect freedom and inhale its perfume
which is the voice of the flowers to us; do
not they awaken a language no words can
tell, that we are now acquainted with?
Yes, we can even talk to them and they
respond by their sweet perfume, thrilling
us with gratitude and devotion, for they
breathe of heaven and heavenly beings.
All this is prepared for us and we can in-
hale and enjoy and "none to molest and
make afraid." Then comes Night, light-
ing up our world with all its glory, the
lovely moon, and the breathing, palpitating
stars; well might the sublime poet say, "By
night an athist half believes a God." Then
the glorious Sun, the Lord of Creation,
when he rises in his splendor, and embrac-
es the earth with his life-giving beams; she
responds to the warmth of his love, and
puts on her beautiful robe as though
fresh from the hands of her Maker. Yes
the sun!

	Had I been born in heathen lands,
	Unknowing God and His commands,
	I surely should have bent the knee
	In dark idolatry to thee.

	Nature! beautiful nature, child of
God, we love thee, thou art the
"sandalphon" of our earthly orbit, filling
our souls with happiness that no language
can make palpable. Thanks to the little
"rushlight" it has ignited the "candle of
the Lord" which burns in every bosom—
though sometimes but dimly. The dark
cloud is lifted and the summits of hope
again appear; "there is a silver lining to
every cloud;" and we ought to be alchymist
sufficient to know how to extract the sweet
as well as the bitter, that the medicine of
life may also be its elixir.
	S. L. City, May 18, 1878.


IT is reported that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.
	THE ADVENT of Women in political af-
fairs dates far back of our time. In the
reign of Henry III, four women had seats
in the British Parliament. In the seventh
century, when the national assembly con-
voked by the King of Kent enacted a new
code of laws, the decrees were signed by
the Queen, abbesses, and ladies of quality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS

				EPHRAIM, MAY 8, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	That you should not think that we, the
Young Ladies M. I. A. of Ephraim are
not awake to our calling, having never
heard from us through your valuable paper,
I shall therefore endeavor to give you a
brief account of our proceedings, during the
time since we were reorganized, which is a
little over a year since. About the time
the work on the Manti Temple was com-
menced, we instituted a monthly ten-cent
donation towards that Temple, being anx-
ious to aid in so great a work, which is a
privilege that we enjoy as a people, for
which we should ever be thankful, and do
all we can to forward its progress in order
that we may be worthy of the blessings
that will be given therein. By putting our
ten cents together, it has brought us, up to
the present, $28.80. We have also donated
ten dollars for the relief of our destitute
brethren and sisters in Wales, who are suf-
fering for the want of daily bread, trying to
appreciate how abundantly we are blessed
with the necessaries and comforts of life.
	The last time our dear departed Presi-
dent visited us in Sanpete, he counseled
us to make our own hats, and do all we
could towards being self-sustaining; this
we do as far as we can. Nearly all the
members of our association make their own
hats; we also make gentleman's straw hats
and try to supply the Co-op at this place
with them. A couple of our girls are fur-
nishing us with beautiful artificial flowers,
so when we raise our own silk, we shall be
able to produce as neat a hat as any of us
could wish to wear, which will indeed be
the workmanship of our own hands.
	We hold our meetings weekly which are
always well attended, and many good in-
structions are given from time to time; in
fact, we think that our meetings are better
than any others; for every word that falls
from the lips of a young girl, while speak-
ing of the goodness of God, seems to come
from the bottom of the heart, and, as it
were, takes root in the hearts of the hear-
ers.
	We should try to appreciate these im-
provement associations for they are schools
in which we are preparing ourselves to fol
low in the footsteps of our mothers, when
they shall have passed behind the vail, for
we know that they cannot always be with
us, to bear the burden of the day, and this
kingdom will still roll on; consequently,
when fathers and mothers have passed
away, their work must necessarily fall upon
the shoulders of their children.
	The EXPONENT is always welcome to our
meetings. Wishing you continued success,
		I am yours, etc.,
				KATE MADSEN, Secretary.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE Co., May 10, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I would not let the present opportunity
pass unnoticed: The sisters here have of-
ten wished Sister Eliza R. Snow to visit
them, and yesterday they had their desires
gratified. Sisters Snow and Davis held a
meeting with us at 10 o'clock a. m., yester-
day, and truly it was a feast; Sister Snow
said she was afraid she would keep us late
without our dinners, but we were being fed
with the words of eternal life. Nearly all
the brethren and sisters in the settlement
were present, and I trust we will profit by
the instruction given; we should feel thank-

[Column 2]
ful that we live in a glorious day when God
has spoken from the heavens, and that we
have good men and women to instruct us
in the path which leads to life and eternal
salvation. We feel to say God bless Sister
Snow and all the sisters and brethren who
are laboring continually for the welfare of
Zion. May she live many years yet to
counsel and instruct the mothers and daugh-
ters of Zion. The subjects spoken upon by
Sisters Snow and Davis, were home indus-
tries, the home education of our children,
saving of grain, dress and Celestial Mar-
riage. We have but very little of the fash-
ion of modern civilization among us here.
Our worthy Bishop and Bishop Rigby from
Newton, each made a few remarks and
promised to assist the sisters all they could,
to establish home industries; we have but
very little of the outside influences among
us here, and nothing to hinder us from liv-
ing our religion, and being a happy people.
We have a good prospect of a bountiful
harvest, the health of the people is good;
we have a healthy climate and everything
encouraging to the Latter-day Saints.
	We feel to sympathize with you in your
late bereavement, but we have a hope be-
yond the grave, we know in whom we
trust.
			MARY GRIFFIN, Pres't.
			JANE GODFREY, Sec'y.

	SANPEDRO RIVER, PIMA Co., ARIZONA.
							May 3rd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters of this place were organized
into a Relief Society by our President, P.
C. Merrell, April 18, 1878. Mrs. Cyren[-] Mer-
rell was appointed President, Rhoda Mer-
rell and Cyrena Stut Counselors, Maria Mc-
Rae, Secretary, Millesa Merrell, Treasurer;
we also have Teachers; we have not many
members, numbering but twelve in all, but
we are going to try and do something in
our weak way. We meet twice a month
and have excellent meetings; we are living
in, or working in the United Order; we do
not eat at one table, but have six rooms fin-
ished so that we are very comfortable.
There is an excellent spirit manifested in
our camp, all feel well and are trying to live
near to God and keep His commandments.
We are so far away from head quarters that
we need to live our religion or the adver-
sary would take advantage of us for he is
watching for weak places.
	Dear Sister we all feel to sympathize with
you in your great loss, but know that it is
her gain.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
it is read with interest by both brethren
and sisters; it has really been a great com-
fort and blessing to all.
	This is a beautiful country, our grain
looks well, and we are getting along as well
as could be expected. There is plenty of 
hard work for all. We thought we should
like to have our names associated with the
rest of our sisters in the good cause in
which the women of God are enlisted.
		CYRENA MERRELL, Pres't. R. S.
		MARIA McRAE, Secretary.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., May 9th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We held our Quarterly meeting on the 
18th ult.; there was a large attendance and
a very good spirit prevailed; the presiden-
cy gave some excellent teachings in rela-
tion to home industry, economy, union, etc.
Several of the sisters expressed their feel-
ings, and are anxious to do all the good they

[Column 3]
can in the good work in which they are en-
gaged, and also willing to help and sustain
those who preside over them. There is a
good feeling manifested in our Society as a 
general thing; we enjoy ourselves when-
ever we meet together either in testimony,
teacher, or work meetings; also in our so-
cial gatherings. We held a party in the
Social Hall last March in honor of the Su-
perintendent, Assistants and Teachers of the
Sunday School, to show our appreciation of
their labors amongst our children. At four
o'clock, p. m., upwards of two hundred
persons sat down to well filled tables, and
did ample justice to the choice viands
placed before them; the evening was spent
in dancing, singing and listening to short
speeches from the brethren and sisters; we
truly had a glorious time, one long to be re-
membered. Our grain committee of three
sisters, appointed about a year ago, fill their
position well, they are doing a good work
in storing grain, having on hand at pres-
ent, one hundred and seventy-five bushels;
we also have an interest in the sheep herd
of thirty-five dollars which we intend turn-
ing into wheat. Our Quarterly Report is
as follows:
	Donations in merchandise......... $6 62 ½
	Sundries........................................ 12 90
	Sist[-]rs Labor...............................   9  50
								  ————
		Total,					   29 02 ½
	Disbursed......................................    3 46
								  ————
	Balance,					   25 56 ½
								  ————
	Amount now in Treasury............ 125  56 ½
	The sisters join with me in kind regards,
and heartfelt sympathy for your great be-
reavement.
				M. A. LUNT, Cor. sec'y.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, May 25th, was well attended,
and a spirit of unity and good feeling was
plainly indicated by the remarks of the
sisters. Counselor E. R. Snow presided,
and after the usual exercises she addressed
the meeting, giving an interesting account
of her visit to some of the settlements
north, and the cordial and hospitable re-
ception everywhere given to herself and
Mrs. Davis, who accompanied her. Miss
Snow also spoke earnestly upon the storing
of grain, and suggested to the sisters the
propriety of raising beans for the same pur-
pose; advised the sisters to use their ut-
most influence with the brethren to have
beans planted wherever it could be made
practicable. Counselor Zina D. Young
made a few remarks on the subject of rais-
ing beans, and offered to lend out some for
seed, of a very good kind. Mrs. Phebe
W. Snow, of Brigham City, spoke upon the
principles of the Gospel, her testimony of
its truth and her desire to serve God. The
sisters in the congregation were called up-
on to express themselves, and many of
them responded, speaking upon faith, hu-
mility, obedience, Celestial Marriage, and
adding testimony to testimony of the truth
of the Latter-day work. Mrs. Mary Freeze
gave a short sketch of her recent visit to
the Eastern States, and referred to the
strong testimony she had borne, wherever
opportunity offered, on the subject of plural
marriage. The sisters are growing and in-
creasing rapidly in spiritual strength and
power, and will soon be a mighty phalanx
in the midst of Israel. Their power and
influence for good through the channel of
these organizations is a positive fact which
is fast gaining recognition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
MY NATIVE MOUNTAINS.

BY BEFF.

		Ah, my noble, native mountains,
		Still the music of thy fountains
[-]urmurs sweetly in my ears though, I am far from thee.
		And thy torrents dashing, gleaming,
		As they down thy sides are streaming,
		In the sunshine brightly beaming,
Seem a song of invitation to be singing unto me.

		It may be a supersition,
		But before my mental vision,
Scenes of home, my mountain home, so oft appear to rise,
		Scenes that to my heart are dearest,
		And in imagination nearest
		To the Vale, where shines the clearest
Sight that beams on happy spirits, praising God in Para-
	dise.

		Yes, to me it seems like heaven,
		Does my mountain home at even,
When the sun in his effulgence sinks behind the Western
	hills.
		Or when Luna sheds her silver,
		Over valley, lake and river,
		And the leaflets gently quiver,
In the breeze so softly laden with the song of distant rills

		Noble mountains! 'neath thy shadows,
		Falling over farms and meadows,
Live a people, of all people, blessed, rich, and most con-
	tent.
		While woes follow those who drove them,
		God and good men all will love them,
		O the sun that shines above them,
Sees no people whom the Father greater blessings ever
	sent.

		Yes, I hasten to thee gladly,
		For my heart yearns for thee sadly,
And I long to flee from Bab'lon and return to thee, sweet
	home. 
		Grand old mountains! piles stupendous!
		Thou seem'st to stand there to defend us
		From the judgments so tremendous,
And the desolating scourges, that upon the earth must
	come.

		And when war spreads consternation
		Through this land, and desolation
Stalks abroad, with form so gaunt, throughout the na-
	tions of the earth,
		Then thy peace shall princes envy,
		And thy valleys teem with plenty,
		For thy people, who will then be
In enjoyment of that peace, of which the world knows
	not the worth.

Council Bluffs, May 18, 1878.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE SISTERS' VISIT NORTH.

	Friday. May 3d, Miss E. R. Snow and I
left Ogden on the U. N. R. R. to visit the
settlements in Malad Valley; we had a
pleasant trip to Hampton's in company
with Apostles Wilford Woodruff and
Erastus Snow, and wife. Bishop O. C.
Haskins and Brother Mansfield met us with
a comfortable conveyance to take us to
Portage, where we arrived in safety early
in the evening.
	Saturday, May 4th, we attended three
meetings, the brethren as well as the sis-
ters being present; a good spirit prevailed,
and we were blessed and encouraged by
the kind words of the Bishop and his
Counselors. Bishop G. Dunford met us
here, and with Bishop Hoskins accompa-
nied us to Samaria, Sunday, 5th, where we
again attended three meetings, and Sister
Snow assisted Bishop Dunford in re-organ-
izing the Relief Society.
	Monday, 6th, we reached Malad in com-
pany with Brothers Dunford, Hoskins and
Mansfield, attended three meetings of breth-
ren and sisters, and all were delighted at
Sister Snow's presence, and the kind coun-
sel and encouragement she gave will be
long remembered by them. Several came
twenty-two miles to attend meeting, and
all expressed their gratitude to God, our

[Column 2]

Father, for the blessings they enjoyed. Ma-
lad is a beautiful valley, thousands of
acres of good land waiting for our poor
brethren who are in want of homes to come
and enjoy.
	Tuesday, 7th, Sister Snow held a recep-
tion for two hours, and also visited the
sick, then returned to Samaria; met with
the Y. L. M. I. A. at two o'clock; then pro-
ceeded to Portage, where we were kindly
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family.
Held meeting in the evening, and were
greatly blessed.
	Wednesday, 8th, we left our kind friends
in Portage, crossed the divide, and visited
Newton; Bishop Littlewood and his family
were very pleased at our unexpected visit.
We met with the sisters afternoon and eve-
ning; many of the brethren here also hon-
ored us with their presence.
	Thursday, 9th, visited Clarkston, met
with the sisters; Bishop Jardine and his
counselors attended with many other breth-
ren. We had an excellent meeting. Af-
ter dinner left for Weston, where we met
with the sisters afternoon and evening.
Many of the brethren were present and ex-
pressed their regret at their Bishop's ab-
sence.
	Friday, 10th, accompanied by Sister
Clark, at whose house we were entertained
in Weston, and Bro. Gassman, we reached
Franklin, and met with the sisters at three
o'clock; Bishop Lafayette Hatch and his
counselors attended with us, and all ex-
pressed their gratitude for the blessings
they received. In the evening we met
with the M. I. A. of both sexes, young
men and women, and had a good time.
Sister Snow addressed the young and ad-
vised them to improve every opportunity
in doing good, and to cultivate themselves
that they might become truly great.
	Saturday, 11th, we reached Richmond,
and met with the sisters in the afternoon,
and held joint meeting of the young ladies
and gentlemen in the evening.
	Sunday, 12th, we met with the sisters in
Smithfield in the morning, dined with
about forty brethren and sisters, Bishop S.
Roskelly and his counsel being of the num-
ber. Afternoon, accompanied by Bishop
Roskelly and others, we visited Hyde Park,
and had a good time with the Saints; all
attended meeting, and were thankful to
have Sister Snow visit them. I think her
instructions will long be remembered by
the Saints in every settlement; all seemed
to enjoy their privileges as Saints, and
were thankful for every blessing. As we
traveled we thanked God, our Father, for
all His mercies; we felt that He was in-
deed blessing His people. The fields looked
beautiful in their robe of green, and the
trees were covered with blossoms; every
where there were prospects of a bounteous
harvest.
	After visiting Brother and Sister McCal-
lister, we left Logan Monday, 13th, and
reached Brigham City by train. That
evening we visited the sick; next
morning we attended the meeting of the
sisters for their organization in a Stake ca-
pacity. Then we visited several Co-oper-
ative Institutions, and were delighted with
the energy and enterprise of the brethren
and sisters of Brigham City; saw the new
Woolen and Silk Factory now nearly com-
pleted, and which will soon be in operation.
Here the artisan and mechanic will not
have to cry for work in vain, neither will
their families have to cry for bread. I felt
that it was truly the hive of Deseret, and
its people are the working bees; the bless-

[Column 3]

ings of God will surely be with such a peo-
ple.
	Tuesday evening, 14th, we reached Og-
den, and were soon snugly ensconced for
the evening in Sister J. Richards's hospita-
ble mansion; we were cheered and blessed
with her and her family.
	Wednesday, 15th, in company with Sis-
ters Richards, Brown, Belknap, Odell and
others, we visited Ogden Vailey, and we
greatly enjoyed our trip through the canon,
viewing the grand scenery, awful in its
grandeur. We had an excellent meeting
with the people, for there were many pres-
ent.
	Thursday, 16th, with the above named
sisters, also Sisters West, Herrick and Fred-
sham, we visited Marriotsville, and en-
joyed our meeting with the brethren and
sisters of that settlement. We returned
to Salt Lake City the same evening, and
were thankful to our Heavenly Father for
all His blessings, and for our safety, and
we feel to thank our brethren and sisters in
every settlement for their kind care over
us, and for kindly conveying us from place
to place. We shall not forget our visit nor
those we visited.	E. DAVIS.


THERE is a pretty sharp discussion going
on respecting the admission of ladies to the
meetings of the British Medical Associa-
tion. Dr. Wilson Fox has resigned his
membership because the committee of the
council of the association have informed
him that they have no power to prevent
the attendance of ladies who are members
of the association. Professor Lister, the
eminent surgeon who came from Edin-
burgh to take the late Sir William Fergus-
son's place at King's College Hospital,
writes to the "British Medical Journal"
that he shall follow Dr. Fox's example un-
less this matter is set right. It appears
that early in 1873 Mrs. Garrett Anderson,
M. D., of Paris, and Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., of
Zurich, were elected members of the asso-
ciation by the committee of the council.
Attention was called to this fact at the Ed-
inburgh meeting of the association, and it
was determined that papers should be sent
to all the members of the association asking
them to say yes or no as to whether they
wished ladies to be present. 4,161 answers
were received, of which 3,072 were noes.
Since then no ladies have been elected.
But it is easier to elect than to unelect, and
the question is what is now to be done?
The doctors, who are perfectly ready to at-
tend ladies as patients, however delicate
may be the nature of their complaints, are
such prudes that they say that they cannot
possibly discuss these complaints in the
presence of two ladies brought up to the
medical profession. They are willing to
act as accoucheurs and take lumping fees,
but it would make them blush to discuss
obstetrics before lady obstetricians, and,
therefore, Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Hoggan
are to have their subscriptions returned if 
the Association would not lose Dr. Fox and
Professor Lister. When I read such stuff
as this I say, with old Mr. Henley, that I
am ready to lie on my back and shout
"Fudge!" It is even worse than that, it is
pure, unadulterated, professional selfish-
ness.—Selected.


ANOTHER new novel from the pen of
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has just been
published, "Poganuc People." It is pro-
nounced by critics and reviewers to be one
of her brightest and best stories of New
England life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1878.


THE NEW VOLUME.

	The present number ushers in the seventh
volume of our little paper, and we trust that in
many homes where it is familiarly known, it
grows still dearer as time goes by. The wo-
men of Utah have an opportunity to give ex-
pression through its columns to their thoughts,
feelings and opinions, and thus become better
acquainted with each other, and more truth-
fully represented to their contemporaries.
We regret to state that on account of delin-
quencies in payments we are unable to make
any change in the paper at the present time,
but our best efforts, and most earnest endeav-
ors shall be diligently exercised to make the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT more helpful and pleas-
ing to the sisters and the public at large than
ever. Women's papers are one of the features
of the progressive elements of the nineteenth
century, and are in a certain sense, character-
istic of the respective locality, and its predom-
inating influences. The EXPONENT should carry
with it the influence of woman's move-
ments, actuated by the spirit of a relig-
ion embodying all the grandest and holiest
principles that have ever been revealed from
heaven. As such a messenger it should be
purifying, elevating and refining in its tend-
ency, and exert in the homes of the people such
a positive influence for good, as should make it
a desirable acquisition to the home circle.


BITTER EXPERIENCES.

	How wonderful are the effects of the various
experiences of one's life. They come to all
while passing through this "vale of tears." It
is easy to say to a friend, be brave, take cour-
age, and the like, when one is sailing smoothly
along with prosperous gales; and often even
the words carry such an earnestness with them
that they do have a stimulating influence for
the moment. The peculiar trials of individual
life and its incidents call out all the special
phases of character one possesses, it would seem,
thus developing energies and attributes, mak-
ing men and women more capable of sympa-
thy and action if they wisely discriminate,
and make good use of these prolific sources of
a higher education. This is the peculiar dis-
cipline Providence provides to teach one the
weakness of mortality, the frailty of all earthly
happiness, to lead one to the only true foun-
tain of joy that springs from the bosom of the
Father.
	Jesus passed through the trials of this earth-
ly life, and gained the perfect victory and He is
the pattern; but in the weakness of humauity
one some[-]imes cries out sorely when wounded
in a tender place; when sorrows press heavily
and bitter trials come, such as men and women


shrink from and would that the cup would
pass by were it possible, who can doubt that
heaven gives them strength to endure, cour-
age to go through the severe ordeal? Such
strain upon heart and brain could only be
borne through faith in God. Then is it strange
that sometimes weary and faint the spirit fal-
ters, the courage slackens, and the heart bows
down with grief. Only God knows the strug-
gle of the poor pilgrims, when the paths are
thorny and the ways are rough. Oh ye whose
paths are pleasant, whose hearts are light,
whose homes are full of bright sunshine, lend
a helping hand to the weary traveler, help to
lift the heavy burden laid upon the shoulders
of another, and minister in kindly deeds to
the soul bowed down. Remember while you
quaff the nectar of life's-honey, another is
draining the bitter wormwood; and give a
thought now and then to those who lack the
blessings of which you are in full possession.
	How little one can know of anything until
it is actually experienced. One can never
judge by looking at the experience of others; but
when one has had the real actual experience,
then is that one prepared to enter into the feel-
ings of those similarly situated. It is easy to
jog pleasantly along when all things are pro-
pitious, and friends loving, true and tender are
ready to make any sacrifice to make life desir-
able, but when affiiction lays its heavy hand
in chastening upon you, then is the time to
test the heroism of the soul, and its faith in God.
Then the tempter would fain make you be-
lieve God had forsaken you, heaven disregard-
ed your petitions, and if one can rely wholly
upon the goodness of God and trust implic-
itly in His redeeming love, faith is triumph-
ant. But how tenderly should one minister to
the sorrowing. How inexpressibly dear are
the kind words of friendship when the heart
is bruised and bleeding. None but those who
have drank of the wormwood and gall can
ever know its bitterness, or realize so exquis-
itely its opposite.


OUR OPINION.

	"The Ballot Box," formerly edited by Sarah
L. Williams, Toledo, Ohio, has changed its
title and locality. It is now "The National
Citizen and Ballot Box," edited and published
by Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage at Syracuse, New
York. The editor expresses a desire to have
the opinions of the press in regard to the mer-
its or demerits of the paper from their respec-
tive standpoints. We would prefer to wait un-
til we had seen several numbers, read and
mentally digested them, before sitting in judg-
ment on the matter. Mrs. Gage is well known
as a valiant defender of woman's cause, an
ab le and clever writer, and public speaker.
We are none of us perfect and therefore should
make due allowance for imperfections in oth-
ers. We wish Mrs. Gage the most complete
success in her new field of labor, and trust she
will give women a fair representation through
her columns. If her paper is national in its
character, as the name would indicate, then it
should advocate the cause of the women of the
nation irrespective of sect or creed, on the
broad platform of national liberty. If Mrs.
Gage is sufficiently magnanimous (and we be-
lieve she is) to speak courageously in defence
of women from all injustice, oppression and
wrong, then she should be sustained by the
best wishes, efforts and patronage of all
men and women who desire to see a better
state of society, through the renovating influ-
ence brought about through woman's material
help in public as well as private life. We once
received a letter from Mrs. Gage which gave


us the most favorable impression of the wo-
man; the letter was rich in womanly senti-
ment, liberal in tone, being entirely free from
that narrow-minded prejudice which often
manifests itself in the correspondence of ladies
who are unacquainted with our religion. We
must not measure others by ourselves, for their
teachings, their surroundings, their experien-
ces may be entirely different from ours; there-
fore let us be charitable towards those who de-
sire to do good even though their way is not
our way. There are many good things in the
National Citizen and the general tone of the 
paper is open, candid and demonstrative,
without sarcasm, or cant.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MR. JUNIUS C. Ferris, the son of Col. Fer-
ris an old friend of President D. H. Wells, is
in the city spending a few days; the young
gentleman is enroute for San Francisco. We
had the pleasure of a short call from him,
through the courtesy of our young relative Ju-
nius F. Wells, who was a guest at the resi-
dence of Col. Ferris in Carthage while in the
East in 1876. We trust Mr. Ferris will enjoy
his visit here, as he will doubtless have a good
opportunity of seeing the beauties of "our val-
ley home."
	MRS. M. I. HORNE returned last Sunday eve-
ning, May 26, from a visit to Bear Lake Valley,
in good health and spirits. She had been ab-
sent seven weeks. She met with several of the
Relief Societies in different places in that vi-
cinity during her absence, and assisted the
Bishop of Liberty in organizing a Relief So-
ciety there. The people are enjoying good
health generally, and there is a good degree of
enterprise and progression apparent in tempo-
ral affairs, much practical work having been
done recently. The brethren and sisters seem
growing in spiritual strength and grace, and
manifested great interest in the organizations
for spiritual development. Mrs. Horne was
everywhere cordially welcomed by the people,
and the sisters were anxious to have her coun-
sel and advice upon matters pertaining to the
growth and development of the associations,
as she is widely known as an earnest and inde-
fatigabie worker in woman's cause, from the
first organization of the Relief Society in Utah.
	WE HAD the pleasure of attending on Wed-
nesday, May 29th, the Annual Meeting of the
Relief Society of Payson, in company with
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and E.
Howard. Greatly to our surprise on enteriug
the meeting house we found it beautifully dec-
orated with articles of home-manufacture, the
handiwork of the sisters of the Relief Society.
Quilts in all varieties of patterns, carpets, rugs,
tidies, laces, flowers, and ladies' mitts, gloves,
vail, etc , of silk raised and manufactured
there; some of the productions are very nice
indeed. The house was well filled, everything
combined to make the meetings interesting
and profitable. Much credit is due the Presi-
dent and Counselors of the R. S., with their
Committee, in managing the affair with so
much taste and ability. In the evening there
was a joint meeting of the Y. M. M. I. A. and
Y. L. M. I. A. Both meetings were well at-
tended, Bishop Tanner and other local authori-
ties were present, and many other brethren,
and a good spirit and feeling prevailed. Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young gave
much good advice, and related some of their
early experiences in the Church, and their as-
sociations with the prophet Joseph, which
were calculated to inspire faith and heroism in
the minds of the young sisters and women of


less experience. We shall publish full details
of these meetings in our next. Our visit to
Payson was pleasant. Thursday morning rode
over to Spring Lake Villa, which is a charm-
ing little retreat under the brow of the lofty
mountains.

	TO THE women of this Territory who are
interested in storing grain, and other products
against a day of need; we would suggest the 
subject of raising white beans for this express
purpose. They are easily raised and harvested,
and require less care in preserving than al-
most any other kind of product. Mice or
weevils are never found among beans, and 
they contain more strength and nutriment than
any other variety of vegetable food. They
will keep perfectly good in a dry place for a 
great number of years. One of the best things
people could have on hand in case of a famine
would be beans as they would keep longer than
any vegetable, or fruit. Relief Societies that
have land at their disposal where it is not con-
venient to raise wheat, could make good use of 
it by raising beans. Sisters use your influence
with the brethren who are engaged in agricul-
tural pursuits, to plant beans in large or small
quantities, according to circumstances, that
there may be an abundance to lay up in the 
store-houses for future emergencies. Though
a vast amount of grain may be stored yet veg-
etables are a necessity to health, and bean soup,
and bean porridge were considered healthful
diet by the primitive New Englanders. There
is no danger of having too great a quantity or
variety of food. Famines are already devast-
ating the earth in different parts and there is
no defining the boundaries of this terrible
scourge. On the coast of Labrador, where they
depend upon fisheries for support, there has
been a failure in the supply recently, and the
consequences are very serious. The British
government have ordered supplies to be for-
warded to meet psesent needs. The distress
in India and in China has been great and ac-
cording to the prophecies ancient and modern,
there is not likely to be any decrease; all this 
is suggestive to Latter-day Saints of the prac-
tical duty of making wise and diligent prepar-
ation for the time to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON BATTALION.

	DEAR SISTERS: Out of about [-]wenty of your
number who were engaged in that arduous
campaign of 1846-1847, I have fourteen or fif-
teen names. I have thought best in the nar-
rative I am writing to "let woman's voice be
heard," and to insert the names of those who
accompanied the command. I tnink it a sim-
ple act of justice on my part. If you will at
your earliest convenience, give me a b[-]ief nar-
rative of your trials and privations as well as
other interesting incidents of travel, I will give
you all the space that the nature of the work
will allow. This applies to all who went with
the army and those who remained behind and 
were bereft of husband or others on whom
they depended for support or comfort.
	The Church Historian has very kindly al-
lowed me to have copi[-]s from his office of all
that will be needed for general information.
Several of the brethren have also allowed me
the perusal of their journals, besides private
individuals have contributed items of public
interest, and I have my own knowledge of
facts worthy of note.
	I trust when I say that the work bids fair to 
be a valuable link in the great chain of the 
history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, I shall not be considered egotis-
tical. Such are my honest convictions. What


will add to the importance of the narrative is
the fact that nothing will be published ex-
cept what is fairly authenticated.
	Your brother and fellow laborer in Zion's
cause.
	Beaver, Beaver Co., May 20, '78.
		DANIEL TYLER.


PERSECUTION AND TESTIMONY.

	After reading the book entitled the "Wo-
men of Mormondom," many persons have
asked me if it was possible that the story of
Brother Joseph Young and Sister Amanda
Smith, concerning the Haun's Mill Massacre
could be true; it seems so bad that American
citizens would be guilty of so horrible a deed.
I will take the liberty of answering through
the columns of the EXPONENT, all who may
be surprised at such a terrible tragedy being
committed by a Christian community. It is
all too true, and they have only told a part. I
was only a little girl at the time, but many
things are plain to my memory; my own fath-
er, Levi M. Myrick and my brother Charles
were among the slain. My little brother lived
four weeks wanting two days after he was shot.
And after we got into a house, (for we were
traveling every day for two weeks) the mob
numbering from twenty five to forty would
surround the house and come in and hunt for
arms, tearing up the floor and searching in
every place they thought any could be secret-
ed, making any wicked threats that seemed to
enter their heads. They would wave their
great knives over Sister Smith and my mother
(Philindia Myrick) and tell them to leave the
State in four and twenty or forty-eight hours;
and some boasted to mother that two days af-
ter the bodies were put into the well they cut
father's legs off and when they cut them off
he called for liquor. Father never drank liq-
uor in his life, but they told mother this to
hurt her worse if they could. Father was a
tall man and it so happened that he was put in-
to the well head first leaving half of his legs in
sight. How long the well was left uncovered
I don't know, we left the next night after the
bodies were thrown in; the mob soon returned,
but the few brethren who were left alive, Bro.
Joseph Young being among the number, did
all in their power to bury the dead, and com-
fort the wounded. After the mob were done
with the butchery, they set to plundering and
took nearly everything we had. They took a
pocket-book of father's and cut it open and
took seven hundred dollars out of it and threw
the book away. I have the old book now.
Mother being of very delicate constitution,
the trouble and exposure brought on a linger-
ing disease from which she suffered for thir-
teen years. She died in 1852, while crossing 
the plains.
	FANNY KOFFORD.
Spring City, May 19, 1878.


OBITUARY.

	DIED AT North Ogden, Weber Co., April 30,
1878, of chronic asthma and dropsy, after an
illness of five years, Anne Austin, wife of Sam-
uel Knowles. Deceased was born at Bough-
ton, Aluph, Kent, England, March 7th, 1812.
She was baptized in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, May 22d, 1852, by Elder
George Nichols; emigrated to Utah with her
husband and family, Nov. 11th, 1873. She
was a loving wife, a kind and indulgent moth-
er, and in a[-]l her affliction was never heard to
murmur or comp[-]ain; she died as she had lived
a faithful Latter-day Saint.


MISS BECKER AT RETFORD.

	Public meetings have been held recently in
many towns in England to consider the ques-
tion of extending the Parliamentary Suffrage
to women householders. At these meetings
usually presided over by the Mayor or one of
his council, many Reverends, professors, and
people of note take part in the proceedings.
A deputation of ladies from the National So-
city for Woman's Suffrage attends and ans-
wers to objections. At a numerously attend-
ed meeting at Retford Apr. 10, a good deal of
interest and curiosity was awakened to hear
Miss Lydia E. Becker of Manchester and Mrs.
Oliver Scratcherd of Leeds. The Rev. H. J.
Church, M. A., in his remarks asked this ques-
tion "How did the ladies propose that if
they recieved the rights of citizens they would
perform the dutios of citizen. For he imag-
ined they would be called upon to defend their
country. They would have to take their share
in preserving the public peace, and, if occas-
ion should arise, to defend their coasts against
invaders. They asked for political privileges
but, as far as he was aware, did not propose
to share political duties. They heard too
much of rights and too little of duties. He
was not prepared to make a speech against
this demand on which, indeed, his opinion
was undecided. He did most distinctly ask
for information."
	"Miss Becker rose to reply to the questions
which she said the gentlemana had so calmly
and moderately, and in such a proper spirit
addressed to them. She hoped the answer she
would give would satisfy his mind. He asked
whether women in asking for political rights,
were prepared to undertake duties of citizens.
She said certainly they were prepared fully to
accept whatever share of political or public
duty could rightly be demanded. The duties
of men and women in the State,in the family,
in society, were equally important; it was also
true they were in some respects diverse. That
was there were some things which men could
do better than women, and some things which
women could do better than men. If men prop-
erly performed their social and family duties,
political power was given them; if women ful-
filled all that could be expected of them in
the family and the State, they were equally
entitled to political power and consideration.
As to juries she was one of those who thonght
the administration of justice would be im-
proved if women had some recognized legal
part in law courts, other than the right of ap-
pearing as prisoners in the dock, or even in the
witness-box. Women prisoners and witnesses
had to go through painful ordeals: They were
examined by men judges, men barristers, men
lawyers, and when anything particularly hor-
rible took place, innocent women witnesses
were vivisected while they were deprived of
the protection of every woman in court. As to
the defense of the country, no doubt it was
true that women had a most terrible interest
in questions of peace or war. When the coun-
try had been imperilled women had never been
behind hand in taking their share. Suppose
they were exposed to an invasion, is there a
man present who thought a woman would
shrink from her duty? (Loud cries of no!)
When the Crimean war took place did not
Miss Florence Nightingale (the remainder of
the sentence was lost amid enthusiastic up-
roar, some shouting Hurrah! at the top of their
voices) There were more ways than one of de-
fending their country." During Miss Beck-
er's speech she was interrupted frequently by
applause and cheering.


6		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	A few of my thoughts on the religion we
believe in. When I look around and see
so many of the outside world denying even
the existenne of God, it makes me shudder
for them and I often wonder what they see
in life worth living for; how I pity them in
their ignorance. When I reflect upon these
things, I thank the Lord that I am a Lat-
ter-day Saint, and striving to be more and
more worthy of the name. Let us strive
hard so that we can truly feel that we have
gained one step nearer our God each day of
our lives. We sometimes think that our
trials are more than we can bear, I think if
we would keep the reward in view we
would not think so much about them; only
for a few hours as it were have we to serve
our Heavenly Father and keep the com-
mandments that He has given us, and then
eternal happiness is ours. Is any sacrifice
too great to make for such a boon? let us
try and think not, and I know the more we
try to live our religion, the more the Lord
helps us, sometimes we are tempted to go
astray, but it is only when we forget our re-
ligion, so let us always remember for what
we are living; we have so many blessings
for which we ought to be thankful, even
were it only our meetings, but it seems as
though we have to be prevented from at-
tending them before we can realize their
true value. It has certainly proved so in
my case, but I do try to realize how much
more I am blessed than those who do not
understand the Gospel, yet I fear I fall far
short of the mark. After having had a
knowledge of the truth of our religion giv-
en us we must live up to it, or how much
greater will be our condemnation than that
of those who have not received that knowl-
edge. I often think that we cannot fully
comprehend the glory of the work in which
we are engaged, or we would never falter
for a moment but devote ourselves more
earnestly to our religion.
						LOUIE MORRIS.
	11 Ward, S. L. City, Apr. 1st, 1878.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

				CLARKSTON, MAY 15, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	Feeling interested in the welfare of Zion,
and also in the young and rising generation,
I offer a few of my thoughts on the subject
of training children; having a family of
children of my own and desiring that they
may become useful men and women in the
kingdom of God, and thinking it is every
mother's wish for their sons and daughters
to become useful in the kingdom, I have re-
flected much on the best course to pursue.
Sisters let us teach our children to be watch-
ful and prayerful and truthful, and keep the 
company of good Latter-day Saints; let us
as parents set them good examples, such as
will be worthy of imitation, in things both 
temporal and spiritual. Although our tri-
als may be great let us try and overcome so
that we may gain the prize in store for the
faithful. I know for one that the adver-
sary is over on the alert to tempt us to do
wrong and lead us in by and forbidden
paths. How happy had we ought to feel
to think we have wise men to counsel us
who hold the Holy Priesthood. Let us
obey them and put in practice what we are
taught; let us teach our daughters to dress
modestly and as becomes Latter-day Saints,
and not allow ourselves to talk against any
of the principles of the Goepel, for we know 
that they are pure and holy, and calculated

[Column 2]
to save us in the Celestial kingdom of
heaven.						J. G.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I feel that I cannot remain silent when
there is so much that should be said in the
cause of Zion. How firm we ought to be
in the cause of truth, for truth can never
die, it is firm as the "Rock of Ages." and
will last to all eternity. There are many
that live in the midst of persecution all their
lives; but it causes them to know in whom
they trust. We cannot depend on the arm
of flesh, we cannot be proven unless we are
tried as gold seven times purified in the
furnace. Trials are for our good if we are
patient, although they may be hard to bear
at the time, but we must realize from
whence the blessings come. I realize that
the things that I pass through gives me
that experience that I could not get in any
other way; therefore it gives me great joy
to think that the Lord overrules all things
for the best good of all his faithful saints,
who love to do his will. I think many
times that this is a hurrying dispensation
in which we live. The Lord is overruling
all things for the advancement of Zion in
the Latter-days. When I look around and
see the manifestations of his power, I feel
anxious to assist in rolling on this great and
mighty work, for if we stand still the car
of time will pass us swiftly by and leave
us in the rear. It matters not how much
we are scoffed at or derided; we must ob-
serve the counsel of our Savior. He will
conduct the plan. Can we become the
working bees in the hive of Deseret, if we
do not accomplish our part of the labor that
is assigned us to do, that we can keep
everything in its proper place, that the
moths cannot find place among us; for what
keeps outside the hive cannot spoil the
honey, but it is the canker that is inside
that gnaws the vitals and lops the branches.
Let us try to keep a clear conscience, void
of offence towards God and man; let this be
our aim and object, that the spirit of peace
may be and abide with us from this time
henceforth and forever.
	Wishing success to your most valuable
paper, I am yours,
			Respectfully,
					SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Circle Valley, Pinto Co.


SERICULTURE.

	ROCKVILLE, KANE Co., April 20th, '78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you of the progress of
silk culture in this place. When the coun-
sel of President Young was given for the
Relief Society to assume the responsibility
of raising silk, the society which had been
formed was merged into the Relief Society,
and their first efforts were directed to build-
ing a house which was accomplished by
subscription in time to use last year, but in
consequence of the cold damp Weather,
very few worms hatched, but those that did
were raised with hardly an exception.  W[-]
have plenty of eggs, having raised five doz-
en. They are just commencing to hatch
and if they do well we shall have some
worms to spare besides some silk we raised
last year.
	The society owns a lot and have planted
10,000 mulberry cuttings and a quart of seed
in it, (the same lot on which the silk
house is situated), they are doing well at
present.
		Respectfully Yours,
					BERTHA OLSEN,
	Superintendent Rockville Silk Society.


EXTRACTS, FROM "THE LITTLE
HEALTH OF LADIES."

BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

	The thin, papersoled-boots which leave
the wearer to feel the chill of the pavement
or the damp of the grass wherever she may
walk, must have shortened thousands of
lives in Europe, and even more in America.
Combined with these, we have now the
high heels, which in a short period convert
the foot into a shapeless deformity, no
longer available for purposes of healthful
exercise. An experienced shoemaker in-
formed the writer that, between the results
of tight boots and high heels, he scarcely
knew a lady of fifty who had what he could
call a foot at all—they had mere clubs. And
this is done, all this anguish endured, for
the sake of—beauty!
	Bad as stays, and chig[-]ons, and high heels,
and paint, and low dresses, and all the oth-
er follies of dress are, I am, however, of
opinion that the culminating folly of fash-
ion, the one which has most wide-spread
and durable consequences, is the mode in
which for ages back women have contrived
that their skirts should act as drags and
swaddling-clothes, weighing down their
hips and obstructing the natural motion of
the legs. Two hundred years ago the im-
mortal Perrette, when she wanted to carry
her milk-pail swiftly to market, was obliged
to dress specially for the purpose:	*	*	*
From that time to this the "cotillon simple"
—modest, graceful, and rational—has been
the rare exception, and every kind of flounce
and furbelow, hoops and crinolines, pan-
niers and trains, "tied back" costume, and
"robe collante," has been successively the
bane of women's lives, and the slow de-
stroyer of their activity.
	It has been often remarked that the saga-
city of Romish seminarists is exhibited by
their practice of compelling boys destined
for the priesthood to flounder along the
streets in their long gowns, and never per-
mitting them to cast them aside or play in
the close fitting clothes wherein English
lads enjoy their cricket and foot-ball. The
obstruction to free action, though perhaps
slight in itself, yet constantly maintained,
gradually tames down the wildest spirits to
the level of ecclesiastical decorum. But the
lengthiest of "soutanes" is a joke com-
pared to the multitudinous petticoats which
up to the last year or two, every lady was
compelled to wear, swathing and flowing
about her ankles as if she were walking
through the sea. Nor is the fashion of
these latter days much better, when the
scantier dress is "tied back"—as I am in-
formed—with an elastic band, much on the
principle that a horse is "hobbled" in the
field; and to this a tail a yard long is added,
which must either be left to draggle in the
mud or must occupy an arm exclusively to
hold it up. In youth these skirts are bad
enough, as exercising a constant check on
free and healthful movement; but the mo-
ment that the elastic steps begin to give
place to the lassitude of middle life, the
case is desperate. There is no longer en-
ergy to overcome the impediments created
by the ridiculous "spancels," and the poor
donkey of a woman hobbles daily round a
shorter and shorter course, till at forty or
fifty she tells her friends with a sigh that 
she finds (she cannot imagine why) that she
cannot walk at all!
	Does decency require such a sacrifice as
this? Does the utmost strain of feminine
modesty ask for it? If it were so, I for one,
should leave the matter with a sigh, as not 
to be remedied. But who in his senses


dreams that such is the case? Who, in the
age of "robes collantes" and "decollettee"
dresses, can pretend that a reasonably full,
simply-cut silk or cloth skirt, reaching to
the ankles and no longer, would not fulfill
immeasurably better than any fashion we
have seen for many a day the requirements
of true womanly delicacy? It is for fash-
ion, not decency, that the activity of wo-
men is thus crushed, their health ruined,
and (through them) the health of their
children. I hold it to be an indubitable
fact that if twenty years ago a ratioual and
modest style of dress had been adopted by
Englishwomen and encouraged by Eng-
lishmen, instead of being sneered down by
fops and fools, the health not only of wo-
men, but the sons of women, i. e., of the
entire nation, would now be on altogether a
different plane from what we find it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		7


R. S. REPORTS.

						MALAD; IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send a brief report of the Y. L. M.
I. A. and its organization, thinking it
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT. We had the pleasure of a
visit from our beloved sisters, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth Davis, from
Salt Lake City, on the 2d November, 1877,
and after some valuable counsel and in-
struction the young ladies were organized
as follows:
	Elvira Harrison, President,
	Anne Colton,	}
	Matilda Lusk,	}
	Ruth Williams,	}	Counselors,
	Elizabeth Dredge, }
	Maggie Price,	}
	Susan Thomas,	}
	Annie Sawyer, Secretary,
	Jane Lusk, Assistant Secretary,
	Sarah J. Williams, Treasurer
	We have fifty-eight members, and there
are several young ladies that we hope will
be induced to join yet. We are striving
after those things that pertain to self cul-
ture and improvement. Although not
able to send a long list of figures in the
form of donations, still we have done a lit-
tle in that direction; we have purchased a
record book and several things for the So-
ciety, and have a little cash on hand; we
have made a good quilt, and put two shares
in the Brigham City Factory. We intend
the coming summer to commence to store
up grain, according to the counsel of the
servants of the Lord. Our beloved Presi-
dent, Mrs. Elvira Harrison, though weak
in body, is striving faithfully with the
young ladies and we feel in our hearts to
pray the Lord to bless her with His Spirit,
strengthen her weak body, cheer and com-
fort her heart in her labors of love among
the young. It is gratifying to mark the
spirit of perseverance among the young la-
dies in carrying out the counsel of our
President in studying the first principles of
the Gospel. Our young ladies commit to
memory passages from the Bible, Book of
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
upon the subjects of faith and repentance;
thus we are trying to treasure up in our
hearts the word of the Lord, and prepare
ourselves for future usefulness in the king-
dom of our God.
	We have an excellent Sabbath School
here, and Bishop Dunford, with the super-
intendents and teachers, take great interest
in instructing the young that attend, giv-
ing tickets and rewards to the best behaved


scholars. The spirit of progress is making
rapid strides among the young men; we
are proud and happy to see them standing
forth valiant for God and His kingdom,
filling missions and giving instructions to
their younger brethren; we feel thankful
to the Lord for these praiseworthy institu-
tions, and pray Him to bless them, and all
who labor with them.
	Praying the Lord to bless our sisters who
love the progress of our Father's kingdom,
	MRS. ANNE SAWYER, Secretary,
		MRS. JANE LUSK, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]

AN OLD STORY OF AN IRISH WO-
MAN'S WIT.

	A long time ago, when giants were plenty
in Ireland, there lived on the borders of
the county Armagh one Barney M'Connell,
who lawfully came under the above appel-
lation, being seven feet high, and made in
proportion. His prowess was well known,
and acknowledged for many a mile round;
but there was one thing that grieved Bar-
ney above a little, namely, that he could
get nobody to stand before him in his own
country. Now report spoke of a certain
giant in Scotland who was laboring under
the like grief, and for precisely the same
cause; therefore, Barney, after consulting
his friends on the subject, sent a challenge
to the Scotch giant, to "come over to Ire-
land and get the concait taken out of him-
self." After the due time the bearer of the
challenge returned with word that it had
been accepted, and further stated that he
was advised to inform Barney that he had
better make his will, get his coffin made,
etc., as he that he was about to encounter,
never left his work half done. "Did you
see him?" asked Barney.	"Faith an' I
did," said the messenger. "What is he
like?" interrogated the giant. "Faith Bar-
ney, avic, he's like anything at all but a
mortal being."	How big is he?" asked
Barney, looking anything but pleased at
the description of his rivial. "How big is
he, did you say? Faith he's as big as the
ould tower forninst the door, an' a head and
shoulders on him like Father M'Gurney's
bull, an' by all accounts he'll ait you alive."
Barney began to feel rather uncomfortable
at the prospect before him, and straightway
went to consult his wife, as to what should
be done in the event of his rival proving to
be such as his messenger had represented.
While they were thus engaged, one of the
children came running in and exclaim-
ed, "Daddy, come to the door, and see the
great big man that's coming up the hill!"
Barney peeped through the chinks of the
door, and to his great terror saw the mon-
ster.
	One look was enough to satisfy him that
his messenger had not exaggerated his ac-
count of him, and turning to his wife, he
said, "Shela, jewell, I'm ett alive, for sar-
tin! Here comes the Scotch baist to drum
your poor Barney." When Shela heard of
the approach of the coming foe, and saw
her lord's utter inability to wage war with
one so far superior in strength and size, she
concluded that it was only by some piece of
woman's wit that her husband could escape
from the affair without dishonor, and ac-
cordingly, she gently lifted the child out of
the cradle, and depositing it on the bed in
the inner room, made the father get in its
place, and covering him up with a quilt,
gently seated herself and resumed her
work. After a few moments, in walked the
cause of all the disturbance, and demanded
an interview with the giant. Shela, after
motioning with her hand for him to keep

[Column 2]

quiet; walked gently across the floor to
where he stood, and in an undertone told
him Barney had gone out to the woods.
The giant informed her that he intended
awaiting his return. "Very well," said
Shela, "only don't make a word of noise for
the life that's in you; for there's nothing
makes him more furious than to hear the
child crying when he comes home." By
this time the giant had seated himself on a
bench, and was quietly surveying the
apartment; but when his eye rested on the
cradle, with a look of unutterable astonish-
ment, he asked what was in it? "In it!"
cried Shela, "don't you see its the child
that's in it; an' Heaven help you if you
wake him; the craythur didn't get a wink
of sleep last night with the two back teeth
he's cutting." The giant, with a look of
terror and astonishment, asked what size
the father was. "Faith, and I can't tel
you," said Shela, "'cause I never measured
him; but that gossoon (pointing to the cra-
dle), when the father is angry, runs and
hides himself in one of his boots." "Laird
save us!" exclaimed the giant; "I winna
mind waiting the noo, lassie, I maun be
gaun; gude morning;" and so saying he took
to his heels, and never thought himself
safe until he got among the hills of his own
country.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	PROF. JOSEPH Henry, L. L. D., lately
deceased, was specially distinguished for
his discoveries in electro-magnetism. Prof.
Henry was in his eighty-first year, but ac-
tively working in his scientific pursuits
until within a few weeks of his death.

	AS T[-]E Forty-Fifth Congress draws
toward its close; people watch with keen
interest the business of each day's proceed-
ings. Many things yet remain unsettled
that it was fully anticipated would be de-
cided during the present session. There
are so many bills now pending that the
members will be compelled to dispatch
business rapidly, if they get through all
prior to apjournment. Much has been
hoped for, by those who have the best in-
terests of the country at heart, from the
present administration, but little has been
accomplished as yet to better the condition
of the affairs of the nation. There is a
fear abroad, seemingly, of secret combina-
tions, and a dread of communism, and
these elements of confusion would act dis-
astrously upon any government, or people.

	ACCOUNTS OF the Eastern dificulties, so
far as we are able to understand them, are
very vague. One day they will and the
next day they wont. Whether they will
ever be able to come to an amicable arrange-
ment seems doubtful. It is now stated by
the "London Post" that Lord Salisbury will
be the English and Count Schonvaloff, pro-
bably, the Russian plenipotentiary in the
Congress. A Paris correspondent says: "It
is thought that the Congress will come to
an agreement in the chief points, and
leave details to resident ambassadors and
second plenipotentiaries. A St. Petersburg
dispatch says Congre[-]s will establish the
general principles of the conference, the
ambassadors meet afterwards at Constanti-
nople. The future adjustment of affairs,
or whether peace or war is the result of the
efforts at reconciliation, is in the hands of
One who turn and overturns kingdoms,
thrones and d minions, and will continue
so to do, until "He whose right it is to reign
shall come."


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"FROM HIM THAT HATH NOT, SHALL BE
	TAKEN AWAY EVEN THAT WHICH HE
	HATH.
	The Utah question at every session of 
Congress illustrates the above Scripture.
Not a session for the last half dozen but a
bill has been introduced to disfranchise the
women of Utah. Who supposes this at-
tempt would dare be made if the women
of the United States possessed the ballot?
Nobody! Who supposes such a suggestion
would ever have been made in regard to
Wyoming, if the women of the United
States possessed the ballot? Not a single
politician has such an idea in his head.
He knows that he strikes at the women of
the Territories because the women of the 
States are politically powerless. If the
women of the States possessed the ballot
they could not only protect themselves, but 
protect other women also.—"The National
Citizen."


THE TORNADO in Wisconsin is one of 
the most dreadful ever known in this coun-
try. About thirty lives were lost, and
from fifty to one hundred persons injured.
The damages to property is estimated at
several hundred thousand, but cannot as
yet be known positively. It is said a storm
similar to this passed over about the same
line of country-twenty-five years ago. The
thunder and lightning accompanying the
storm was most terrific.


ELIZABETH Boynton Herbert has edito-
rial charge of a small part of the Chicago
Inter Ocean, called the Woman's Kingdom.
She says many good things to both men
and women, and her style is pleasing, at-
tractive and practical.


Fruit Pudding: Take one bowlful of thick
cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful salcratus; mix
gently and roll it about an inch in thickness, then
spread it with fruit of whatever kind preferred,
and roll it up in a clean cloth and boil it or steam
it two hours; it may be eaten with cream and
sugar.
	To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[unreadable handwritten text]
[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I., over the Ta[-]lo[-]ing Department.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. JUNE 15, 1878.	NO. 2.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE WORSHIPER.

Into the house of worship came
	The earnest, crowding throng,
The gentle girl, the aged dame;
	Through prayer, and praise and sacred song,
To learn the path that led above
	Earth's vales and wilds of wrong.

While prayer, full-toned, sweet, clear and high,
	And worship-hymn like incense rolled;
A stranger, half as one in fear,
	To vacant seat before me stole,
Like one apart from all commune
	Save with her secret soul.

Her garments worn with studious care,
	(The fashion of long years gone by;)
The straying locks of once bright hair,
	The pallid cheek, the drooping eye;
The prayer-bent head, the shrinking form,
	Might wake a pitying sigh.

Yet, e'en as once in Eden dwelt,
	One spirit dark, whose trail was blight,
There where truth's seekers humbly knelt,
	Vain worldlings at the saddening sight;
Blushless within the sacred place,
	Their fine derision dealt.

Ah! how my soul within me burned
	To shield the helpless from their sting,
When once her thin pale face she turned;
	Then shrank like some poor hunted thing
Too weak and wounded to take flight
	Though shouts around her ring.

Ah! what hath been thy woe, poor heart,
	What history of wrong and pain,
Lie hid from reason's reach and smart,
	And but the sealed lids remain;
Save one stray leaf thou connest o'er,
Thy heavenly home to gain.

When low upon her dying bed
	The lonely worshiper was found;
Few friends kind ministrations fed,
	Few mourners stood her grave around;
And the sealed lips their secret kept
	Within them 'neath the mound.

Then the bright angel lifting forth,
	The poor clay from the trampled sod;
Found, 'neath cankering dross of earth,
	(Where wordly feet indifferent trod)
Dim with tear-rust, a jewel bright,
	Worthy the praise of God.

Blessed thou art, the Master said;
	Because when worldlings sought not me,
Though with my richest bounties fed;
	Thou in thy depths of misery,
Friendless, distraught, one bright thought kept
	And loved, and worshiped me.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, May 18th, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
HINTS TO MOTHERS.

	Since reading the article in the EXPO-
NENT entitled "Education and Culture of
Women," I have felt like saying something
to mothers in regard to training their boys.
I have visited some of the Conjoint Im-
provement Meetings, and I think the girls
take more interest, advance more rapidly,
attend more regularly, and are more atten-
tive to instructions than the boys are.
	I have also noticed in many families that
parents do not seem to think their boys
need any education, or refinement; they
have no books or papers provided for them,
from which they might gain knowledge,
and appear only to wish them to know how
to work. When they come in at evening,
after their day's work is done, instead of
having the Bible, Book of Mormon, or

[Column 2]

some other good work for them to read,
they find employment for their minds and
hands by playing cards for pastime, or any
frivolous game for amusement; thus their
education is neglected, and their minds al-
lowed to go to waste; and I fear that this
is not all they lack, but that the parents
allow their boys to grow up without teach-
ing them to pray, or ask a blessing upon
their food, or to acknowledge in any way
the power of God.
	And how sadly are their manners neg-
lected also! They will go to an evening
party, or meeting, many of them, with
their hair uncombed, wearing their dirty
overalls, without coats, and their breath
smelling horribly of whiskey and tobacco.
And yet they think they are worthy of our
pure, refined, cultured girls, and expect to
marry them and make them happy. But
alas! how can a woman be happy with a
man who has no idea in common with her;
one who has never read anything to im-
prove his mind, or studied refinement, or
elevation, or sought for spiritual knowledge,
as she has?
	O, sisters! let us try to take more pains
with our children, and have books and
amusements ready for them, so that they
may remain at home, contented and happy,
and not have any excuse to go to saloons,
or billiard halls, for enjoyment. Let us be-
gin while they are young to teach them to
pray and sing, to attend meetings for spir-
itual culture, and put their trust in God; to
cultivate their minds and manners, and be-
come intelligent; for surely, as God himself
is an intelligent Being, He will desire us to
be so, and will help all who seek to attain
to excellence. Let us, also, strive to im-
prove ourselves, that we may know how to
instil into the minds of our little ones such
things as will benefit them here and here-
after.
	I have no boys of my own, but I have a
great desire to say or do something to im-
prove the condition of our boys in Zion,
so I have addressed a few ideas to mothers,
thinking perhaps I may awaken some of
them to a knowledge of the importance of
their duties, and thus benefit the sons; and
if they will learn to spend their money for
good books, instead of whiskey and tobac-
co, and instead of their evil habits form
good ones, I am sure it will bring its own 
reward.	GIPSY GOLDEN.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRTIETH Anniversary of the
Second Woman's Rights Convention the
world ever knew, will be celebrated by a
Convention in Corinthian Hall, Rochester,
N. Y., July 19th, 1878. The first one was
held in Akron, Ohio, the year before, by
Mrs. Frances D. Gage and other Western
women. This second one met July 19, in
a church in Seneca Falls, N. Y., then the
home of Mrs. Stanton, and adjourned to
meet August 1, at Rochester. It is emi-
nently fitting that the thirtieth anniversary
should be held in this latter city. Some
who took part in the Convention have
passed on, but many others, including both
Mrs. Mott and Mrs. Stanton, its callers, are
still living. This Convention will take the

[Column 2]

place of the usual May anniversary, and
will be largely devoted to reminiscences.
Friends are cordially invited to be present,
especially the pioneers in the reform.
	WILLIAM CULLEN Bryant, the poet, au-
thor, editor, philosopher and statesman
died at his residence in New York City on
Wednesday, June 12, at 5 25 a.m. Amer-
ica may well be proud of so good and great
and wise man. Bryant was born at Cum-
mington, Mass., Nov 3, 1794. At the early
age of ten years he commenced his literary
career, displaying wonderful genius in
writing and translating, and as he grew
older became eminent not only for his ver-
satile learning and talent but his great prac-
tical abilities, combined with a nature so
genial and tender that he attracted all
hearts to him, thereby wielding a more
powerful influence. His works are numer-
ous and widely celebrated. His popular-
ity as an author and scholar has been
known for at least three score years and ten.
Mr. Bryant had enjoyed excellent health up
to the time of his illness two weeks pre-
vious to his death. Mr. Bryant had travel-
ed extensively in foreign countries and had
wonderful powers of description. In one
of his poems called "June," he most exquis-
itely expresses a fervent wish to die in that
beautiful month. 
	THE NEW England Woman's Subscrip-
tion Festival which is held yearly took
place Wednesday evening May 29th, in Hor-
ticultural Hall, Boston, Mass., Mr. William
I. Bowditch made the opening address. His
speech was principally upon the Suffrage
for women, taxation without representa-
tion, etc. Many statistical facts were
brought forward by him to prove how in-
complete and cruel had been the laws of
the past and that all was not yet accom-
plished that ought to be to improve the
condition of the people. Mr. B. said J.
Story taught us that "Law is a progressive
science," etc. Wendell Phillips was the
next speaker, in his address which was
powerful and eloquent, he said he fancied
one reason why the public took so little in-
terest in Woman's Suffrage was because so
little money was put into it. People said:
"You are a woman's suffrage man, how
much have you done for woman's suffrage?"
That was their only thermometer; he re-
ferred to the money subject as a necessity
to success; said there were only two tests
which people applied to determine the
merit and probable success of every cause.
The one was money the other was votes.
Miss Mary F. Eastmam, Rev. Mr. Cal-
thrope, and Miss Abby W. May, each ad-
dressed the audience in a similar strain.
There were many excellent things said by
these ladies and gentlemen, and the spirit
manifested is one that will not be rebuffed
or discouraged but persistent and earnest,
and full of strength and determination.


MME. Strauss, wife, of the great compos-
er Johann Strauss, is dead. She was best
known in musical circles as Jetty Taffa. It
is thought her death may interfere with the
great composer and his orchestra going to
Paris, to the Exposition.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<ganied feb="" 1g,.187g,.="" under="" the="" direction="" of="" mrs.="" m<.11.="" horne,="" with="" following="" oflicera:="" a.="" v.h="" -hetty="" duiin,="" president,-="" ;!="" '="" -="" ’="" counselors.="" i11="" ‘u.="" emma="" thorniek,="" mary="" jane="" bee,="" clara="" walked,‘m="" harriet="" thompson,="" christine="" jacobsotf,="" patterson="" -:="" josephine="" hart,="" seerotary,="" e="" --'="" elizabeth="" assistant="" secretary.="" :="" vo="" hold="" our="" meetings="" once="" in="" twp="" weeks.="" exercises="" consist="" select="" rehdings="" from="" (church="" works="" arid="" other="" ,="" good="" books.="" association="" numbers="" in,="" all="" seventy-two="" members,="" mostly="" small="" girls.="" we="" held="" pur="" first="" anniversary="" feb.="" 1g,‘at="" 1="" o’clock="" p!="" !ra.="" bishop="" w.m',="" hblmes="" and="" some="" brethren="" were="" present="" gave="" us="" instructions.="" iri.="" evening="" young="" ladies="" an="" entertainment,="" ykich="" consisted="" songsf="" .and="" recitations;="" y.="" m.="" i.="" assisted="" young'="" la-="" dies;="" performance="" was="" a="" credit="" tq="" those="" who="" aided="" ,the="" entertainment.="" wo="" want="" as="" soon="" it="" is="" practicable="" to="" make="" own.="" liais="" bonnets.'="" spirit="" improvement="" manifested="" among="" youug="" peoplo="" to’="" grqrit="" degree,="" they="" s'eem="" desirous="" carryout="" counsel="" vcind="" instruction="" of-="" beloygd;="" president,="" brigham="" young,="" .in,all="" fespect8.'‘="" sincere="" desire="" for="" prosperity="" zion.="" “.="" ”="" "="" your="" .sisters,="" &c="" .="" ‘="" h="" hettydunn,="" secretary.,="" east="" mill="" creek="" ward,="" may="" 22,="" 1878.="" editor="" exponent:="" feelings="" pleasurable="" emotion="" i="" now="" eeiid="" ybu="" '.report-="" society.="" heartfelt="" thariks="" giver="" that="" he’has="" so="" blessfed="" our-efforts="" can="" give="" favorable="" ah="" account="" labors="" relief="" shoiild="" long="" ago="" have="" sent="" it,="" according="" to-the="" promise="" made="" at="" memorial="" visit="" your-="" self,sister="" snow,mrs.m.i.horno,mrs.wood.="" ruff="" howard;="" but="" multiplicity="" cares="" inoldentto="" daily="" life="" wife="" mother,="" must="" be="" apology="" not="" doing="" before;="" will="" fry="" do="" better="" future.="" organized="" dec.="" 13th’,="" 1876="" by="" miss="" eliza="" r.="" snow,="" un.="" dor="" th’e="" sanction="" -w.="" g.="" yitli-the="" officers:-’="" -v.-="" ilii.="" e.="" neff,="" president="" m.m.="" noff,="" b.="" moses,="" treasurer.="" reorganization="" thoro="" no="" cliango="" in-ofiicors.="" excellent="" meetings,="" semi-monthly.="" attends="" frequentlyand="" his="" wise="" counsels="" well="" pleasant="" affablo'="" manner,="" shows="" rest="" ward="" are="" objects="" care="" solicitude.="" peace,="" love="" unity="" dwell-in="" midst;="" overy="" member="" seems="" awake="" her="" duties="" quite="" ready="" respond-="" any="" ‘call.="" worthy="" ablb="" counselors="" prompt="" their="" so-="" ciety="" feel,="" listening-fo="" counsel,="" blessed="" prospered.="" financial="" report="" isasfouows="" 13th,="" 1877,.="" -rdaiiw-jui’s="" cach="" donated="" temple..%v?.ri:..="" $17,75="" disbursed="" barao...‘.v...llk...="" 14,80="" donations="" i-cceived="" general="" pur.="" ijoses.......j...t.....="" 94,67="" paid="" wheat.........y..t.‘....="" 45,20="" benefit="" society="" ...="" 80,10="" romainthg="" society,="" iri="" goods,="" carpets,="" etci.v.l.......’..11,00="" cash="" lumbet="" wheat="" bin...........................="" 1g,00="" one="" thousand="" shingles..........="" 4,00="" nails="" bin.....................2,00="" banrier,="" c.="" 8.="" s.12,35="" stock="" big="" cottonwood="" co-op...="" 25,00="" meankdbhatpd="" for;="" house.....................="" 128,40="" goods="" work="" done="" temple....,..,............="" g,00="" on="" hand.................85="" hu.="" praying.for="" richest="" heaven’s="" bless-="" ings="" attend="" you,="" wearo="" most="" respectfully="" yours,="" nefp="" pres’t.="" .-="" ,’f.="" sec’y.="" i...="" i-i;="">		      R. S. REPORTS.

   The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
June 8. 1878, was very well attended; Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding; her Counselors E.
R. Snow, Zina D. Young, S. M. Kimball
and P. Woodruff were also on the stand.
After the usual exercises and the reading
of minutes from several Young Ladies' As-
sociations, the President M. I. Horne, gave
a synopsis of her visit to Bear Lake Valley,
and the enjoyment she had in visiting the
Societies in that vicinity. Counselor E.
R. Snow made some remarks in which she
exhorted the mothers to use their influ-
ence with the young people against night
excursions and evening parties to public
grounds or gardens. Parents do not forsee
the consequences of these pleasure parties.
We like to have our young people enjoy
themselves together, but there is an influ-
ence abroad whose tendency is to destroy,
and if we are stupid and thoughtless in re-
gard to the youth, the Lord will hold us
responsible for a great many evils. Young
ladies can have a great deal of influence
over young men if they will use it in the
right direction, and mothers should use
their influence with their sons and daugh-
ters. The powers of darkness are so on
the alert that we need to be wise and care-
ful, for we are called to save souls as well
as the brethren. Mrs. Ann Bickington;
President of Lynne and Marriott express-
ed herself pleased to meet with the sisters
in the general meetings, and realized the
great work that the sisters were doing.
Counselor Zina D. Young made some re-
marks and spoke in strong terms against
night excursions. Counselor S. M. Kim-
ball in her remarks referred to having visi-
ted some of the dens of iniquity in other
cities when she had heard the erring wail
over their condition and it had taught her
sympathy for the repentant and sorrowing,
and she felt the mission of assisting in re-
form was the noblest one women could
have. Counselor Phebe Woodruff said she
felt the meeting was a feast, she had not
heard anything save what was profitable
and good; wished our youth could see the
necessity of carrying out the counself of the
authorities of the church. We mothers
should guard and watch ourselves and set
a good example and teach them correct
principles, said many other good things. 
Mrs. E. S. Taylor made a few remarks al-
luded to night excursions, said if only the
pure and good went to those places they
would be enjoyable, but it was not so, the
company was mixed and we should use our
utmost influence against all such amuse-
ments. Teach the young people good prin-
ciples at home and in their meetings, and
do all in our power to restrain them from
evil.

			CHARLESTON, WASATCH Co.,
					May 23rd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
    The Relief Society of this place is in
working order, with twenty-six members.
The Society was organized in Dec., 1870,
and reorganized Feb. 4, 1878, by Bishop	
N. C. Murdock and his Counselors, C. Rich-
ens and E. Buys. Having no place of our
own to meet in, we hold our meetings in
the Charleston Meeting House once a 
month, and considering our scattered con-
dition, the meetings are well attended.
We remember the poor and administer to
their necessities as occasion requires, and
we enjoy the Spirit of God. We have a
Y. L. M. I. A., which is in good working
order, and will result in a great amount of
good to the Daughters of Zion, who will
improve the opportunities given them in
the Association. We are trying to carry
out the counsel given by our late beloved
President, Brigham Young, in storing up
grain. The following is the Financial Re-
port of the Relief Society:
Donations received.........................$ 135. 63
Profit on quilts...................................	 20. 29
Dividend............................................ 	41. 14
Disbursed to the poor..................... 	14. 90
To Charleston Meeting House......... 	67. 73
To Silk Association............................ 	10. 00
For wheat........................................... 	70. 00
Amount in Treasury..........................	 34. 00
			Emma Brown, President,
			M. Murdock, } Counselors,
			Mary Dayball,
			Sina Brown, } Secretaries,
			Emma Trolman,
			Agnes McGee, Treasurer.

     BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, March 25, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association was organized Feb. 16, 1876,
under the direction of Mrs. M. I. Horne,
with the following officers:
	Hetty Dunn, President,
	Emma Thornick, } Counselors.
	Mary Jane Bee,
	Clara Walker,
	Harriet Thompson,
	Christine Jacobson,
	Mary Patterson
	Josephine Hart, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Hart, Assistant Secretary.
   We hold our meetings once in two weeks.
Our exercises consist of select readings
from the Church works and other good
books. Our Association numbers in all
seventy-two members, mostly small girls.
We held our first anniversary Feb. 16, at 1
o'clock p.m. Bishop Wm Holmes and
some other brethren were present and gave
us some good instructions. In the evening
the young ladies gave an entertainment,
which consisted of songs and recitations;
the Y. M. M. I. A. assisted the young la-
dies; the performance was a credit to those
who aided in the entertainment. We want
as soon as it is practicable to make our own
hats and bonnets.
	The spirit of improvement is manifested
among our young people to a great degree,
and they seem desirous to carry out the
counsel and instruction of our beloved
President, Brigham Young, in all respects.
Our sincere desire is for the prosperity of
Zion.
		Your Sisters, &c
				HETTY DUNN, President,
				JOSEPHINE HART, Secretary.

	EAST MILL CREEK WARD, May 22, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of pleasurable emotion
I now send you a report of our society.
With heartfelt thanks to the Giver of all
good that He has so blessed our efforts that
we can give so favorable an account of our
labors as a Relief Society. We should
long ago have sent it, according to the
promise made at the memorial visit of your-
self, Sister Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Wood-
ruff and Mrs. Howard; but the multiplicty
of cares incident to the daily life of a wife
and mother, must be our apology for not
doing so before; we will try and do better
in the future. We were first organized
Dec. 13th, 1876 by Miss Eliza R. Snow, un-
der the sanction of Bishop W. G. Young,
with the following officers:
	A. E. Neff, President,
	Lydai Orguthorpe, } Counselors.
	Sarah Skidmore,
	F. M. Neff, } Secretaries.
	M. M. Neff,
	B. M. Moses, Treasurer.
	In our reorganization there was no change
in officers. We have excellent meetings,
held semi-monthly. Our Bishop attends
frequently, and by his wise counsels as well
as pleasant and affable manner, shows that
we as well as the rest of the ward are the
objects of his care and solicitude. Peace,
love and unity dwell in our midst; every
member seems awake to her duties and
quite ready to respond to any call. Our
worthy President with her able Counselors
are prompt in all their duties and the So-
ciety feel, in listening to their counsel, they
are blessed and prospered.
	Our financial report is as follows from
Dec. 13th, 1877.
	Cach donated for Temple................$ 17, 75
	Disbursed for the same.....................   14, 80
	Donations received for general pur-
			poses....................................    94, 67
	Paid for wheat....................................     45, 20
	Disbursed for Benefit of Society......     30, 10
	Remaining in Society in goods,
			carpets, etc...........................    11, 00
	Cash paid for lumber for wheat
			bin..........................................    16, 00
	For one thousand shingles.................     4, 00
	Nails for wheat bin...............................    2, 00
	For Banner, E. M. C. S. S.......................	12, 35
	Stock in Big Cottonwood Co-op...........	25,00
	Means donate for a New Ward
			House........................................ 	128, 40
	Donated in goods for work done
			for temple.................................	  6,00
	Wheat on hand........................................      85 hu.
	Praying for the richest of heaven's bless-
ings to be with and attend you, we are most
respectfully yours,
					A. E. NEFF, Pres't.
					F. M. NEFF, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE "Woman's Journal" tells us of a
lady lecturer on Communism, who held
forth on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washing-
ton, D. C., May 5th. She had all the argu-
ments of Butler and Voorhees at her 
tongue's end, and declared the American
Commune was already strongly organized.
	MISS Catherine Esther Beecher died at
Elmira, New York, on Saturday, May 11th,
at the residence of her brother, Rev.
Thomas K. Beecher. She was born at East
Hampton, Long Island, Sept. 6, 1800. The
death of Prof. Fisher, of Yale College, to
whom she was betrothed while young,
changed the whole course of her life, and
she never married. She taught for many
years in seminaries and institutions of learn-
ing, and devoted herself to the develop-
ment of plans for the education of women,
in writing and teaching. Miss Beecher has
written some books that have been widely
circulated. One of her later works, enti-
tled "Common Sense Applied to Religion,"
was the subject of much comment in reli-
gious circles, differing widely from the old
Calvinistic theology. Her personal influ-
ence has been very great. Her brother,
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, in referring to
her life, said, "Few persons, even in the
ministry, had influenced as many minds as
she had, because she reached the mother
mind, and whoever carries the mother
mind moves the world. Although she
was not a mother, she had reached and in-
fluenced millions."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		11


<to scatter="" light="" fh="" deeds="" of="" loro,="" v.="" brlghte’hlrig="" and="" cheering'="" whercaoe’er="" they="" fall;="" grant-me="" thy="" holiest="" infllittlee="" within,="" tbdf="" as,the="" yparesupcessiyoiyualong="" .j,.="" s%ntly,="" unseen="" by="" all="" avet'beef="" v..t="" ‘="" l&ch="" inwrought="" cbristldh="" virtue!="" may="" grow="" bright!1'="" grant,="" fdther="" whon="" powerful="" hand="" shall="" crush:"="" my="" frame="" as="" i="" this="" wondrou?="" casket="" frail,="" .="" t-="" itplno="" eye,="" allrsearchlng="" gazing="" on="" soul,="" (.="" nothing="" find="" to="" offond,="" but="" clear,="" serene1,="" '="" sparkling="" with="" heavenly="" gldw,="" from="" thc;wor’ld!="" -itjttsullipdx="" it="" gleam,="" radiant="" even="" ;="" ]="" vkjmnlscient="" god,="" wlt'h'pure$t="" love="" thee!="" ,="" -j="" j(jvv="" hollow,="" tjall="" r6ck="" lined="" tjith="" crystals,;="" -------------------------------------<="" div="">TO A GEODE. *

BROUGHT FROM THE BANKS OF THE
MISSISSIPPI.
Though years, aye, centuries, over thee have rolled,
Into thy beauteous heart still have my eyes,
Of all the earth's these eyes first penetrated,
Thou wonderment of God's creative power!
Vain were it to inquire of thee why thou
Within thy nodule rough foldest thy gems?
Or who thee wrapped in cerements coarse and plain
And bade thee 'neath the waterfall to lie,
Upon the river's bank, or boulder rock,
Unnoticed and alone?—and to thy heart;
Thine inner temple, gave such beauty rare?
Who thee endued with power the rainbow hues
From the o'erarching heaven to bring?—yes, thou,
With thy prismatic skill, dost decompose
The delicate rays that form our glad'ning light!—
With such precision geometrical,
Who measured all thy angles, crystal-shaped,
Made multiform and regular their sides,—
Each shaft minute, finished so wondrously?
Thou smiling prairie flower, give answer here,
Thou sportive, music-warbling bird, reply?
And, noble stream, that bearest million souls
Upon thy stalwart breast, what sayest thou?
God?—He who on my soul its power bestowed
To live for evermore? O Thou, Almighty!
By the immortal spirit Thou hast given,
Aid me to draw the glory of thy heaven
To earth, to scatter light in deeds of love,
Brightening and cheering wheresoe'er they fall.
Grant me thy holiest influence within,
That as the years successive roll along
Silently and unseen by all save thee,
Each inwrought Christian virtue may grow bright
Grant, Father when thy powerful hand shall crush
My frame as I this wondrous casket frail,
Thine eye, all-searching gazing on my soul,
May nothing find to offend, but clear, serene,
Sparkling with heavenly glow, and from the world
Unsullied, may it gleam, and radiant ever,
Omniscient God, with purest love to thee!
—Selected.
	*A hollow ball of rock lined with crystals,


[Column 1]
THE HOLY SCRIPTURE.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is ever an inspiration in the Scrip-
tures that I feel in no other book; yet oth-
ers charm, delight, instruct, and have
made for me often a sunshine in the shade.
It was my mother's custom to teach her
children to read selections from the New
Testament as soon as they had passed
through the primer, and explain to them
what they read as far as they were capable
to understand; many of the chapters are
written in plain and simple language, such
as a child can compass. This system no
doubt accounts for the delightful associa-
tions that have clung to me through life,
and the inspiration accompanying them;
In these days I mourn to find an infidelic
feeling with regard to the Holy Scriptures.
I hear intelligent educated women exclaim-
ing "I cannot read the Scriptures, they
are so deep, I know nothing about them."
These words tell the tale, did they read they
would know and have very different feel-
ings with regard to them. These Scrip-
tures have fed the world for generations
with "food convenient to them," and many
have been enlightened, strengthened and
invigorated by them for the journey of
life, and the trials that "flesh is heir to."
There they have beheld themselves as in a
mirror, their experience has been mapped
out before them, and there they have also
found the panacea for them. The psalms
of David are especially descriptive of hu-
man life, its trials, sorrows, weaknesses,
sins, repenta[-]ce, and the glory and exalta-
tion that awaits the soldier of Christ, when
the warfare of this terrestial existence is
ended. The Spirit of God and His inspira-
tion, runs through every part of them, and
by this establishes their divine origin un-

[Column 2]
mistakably, this applies to the whole Scrip-
tures; it seems impossible that a pure un-
sophisticated mind, cultivated by nature
and education, should fail to discover the
footprints of Deity, and by means of the
spirit ear catch the whisperings of the "still
small voice" that breathes into every mind
that is open to receive it. That discrepan-
cies have crept in, there can be no doubt
during the casualties they have passed
through, its transit from one language to
another, and through so many opposing
elements. Three thousand of these holy
Books, were, by command of the Pope,
burnt at one time in Smithfield, London,
and they have passed through all manner of
emergencies and distractions from the per-
secution of enemies. Yet these Scriptures
exist in innumerable numbers in all civil-
ized countries to-day, in every clime and
tongue, a living oracle to all who seek for
the spirit of God by which they were writ-
ten. The old Scriptures are an epic poem,
the greatest and the grandest ever penned
by mortal hand. In what other book shall
we find such divine ethics, such wise and
just laws, such god-like charity, such equal-
handed justice, such truth in sublime, un-
blushing nudity; such lofty heroism, such
living po[-]try as in the Holy Writ? Its al-
legories are inimitable. Its parables a code
of wisdom all would do well to study. It
was written in a country, and a language
abundant in allegory and figure of speech;
such was the common language of Egypt
and Palestine, where its chief scenes are
laid. What books on earth can compare
with Ezekiel, Isaiah, the book of Job—the
sublime, the mysterious book of Job; and
the climax of all, the Revelations. But 'tis
vain to attempt enumerating from first to
last it is the Book of Books. Sir Walter
Scott says:

		"Within this awful volume lies
		The mystery of mysteries,
		And better had he ne'er been born,
		Than read to doubt, and read to scorn."

	Both men and women of the Scriptures
are models to copy from; there is no false
gloss thrown over them, they are brought
out in bold relief, the head as well as the
foot is t[-]ld; no flattery is seen in those pag-
es; no tinselled drapery, "no stars or gar-
ters" to dazzle the eyes, and hoodwink the
judgment; no titles of honor, "Their epitaph
is their name alone." We say Moses, and
the law-giver of Israel rises before us—
Isaiah, and the sublime prophet and poet of
God is there in all his glory—Ezekiel, the
man of sublime visions, and the avenger—
'Tis useless to individualize where all are
great and good.
	I have ever observed that a Bible—a
Scripture reader, one who-desired and pray-
ed for the inspiration of the spirit of God
as they read and studied these sublime re-
cords, I note that they spring at once to a
higher degree of intelligence, a larger
heart, a more expanded brain, a more com-
prehensive judgment; and in consequence
a more extended charity and a greater ap-
preciation of the sublime, the beautiful and
the glorious; because the soul has been
awakened and cultivated by the Book of
inspiration of the Spirit of God. The Bi-
ble has ever been a text book and our laws
are framed from its code—and between the
Old and New Testament there is a perfect
harmony. The sacred observance of the
Sabbath, is one of the testimonies of the
divine origin of the Holy Scriptures.
"Wherefore the children of Israel shall
keep the Sabbath, it is a sign between me
and them forever." Such are the words of
God Himself, Exodus 31st chapt., 16-17
verses. Nothing can be more emphatic

[Column 3]
than this; I feel a time is rapidly approach-
ing when the divinity of the Scripture will
be proved by marvellous demonstrations,
for it is written "Heaven and earth shall
pass away but my words shall not pass
away." Let the doubting, and more, the
infidel, study these mysterious pages, let
them pray, if they are not accustomed to
that holy exercise, try it, "prove all things"
and believe that though you may take them
in hand with a scoff, it will be a testimony
to you, that you "remain to pray," and your
words will be those of one of old, "Help
Thou my unbelief."
—June, 1878.


CHEERFULNESS.

	"It gives to beauty half its power
		The nameless charm worth all the rest
	The light that dances o'er the face,
		And speaks of sunshine in the breast."

	The person who possesses a cheerful tem-
perament is one to whom the heart instinc-
ively turns for society and sympathy.
Cheerful people do a vast amount of good
in this world by buoying up and encourag-
ing others. It is a virtue in itself and a
promoter of happiness inward and out-
ward. It is not simply an act but a habit
of the mind, and one which should be nour-
ished and cultivated; it is as beneficial as
the sunshine, and as capable of reflection.
I do not wish to be understood as applying
the term to something short lived and tran-
sient, but that which is fixed, permanent
and abiding. Cheerfulness cannot be said
to give the mind or the person exquisite
or overwrought gladness, but is an anti-
dote against falling into the depths of sor-
row. It is not like a brilliant flash of viv-
id lightning that breaks suddenly through
a gloomy mist of clouds and glitters efful-
gently for a brief, transitory moment, but it
keeps a kind of daylight in the mind and
fills it completely with a calm and never-
failing serenity. The person who is cheer-
ful, is happy to a certain extent, not laugh-
ing loudly, or ever overflowing with ex-
cessive mirth, these are not indications of
joy. Goldsmith said: "And the loud laugh-
ter that spoke the vacant mind," but
wearing a smile always, unless under the
presence of some heavy affliction. The
great and good effect of a cheerful temper-
ament upon those around us can scarcely be
estimated; the influence is contagious, it re-
flects itself and diffuses itself around upon
all that come within the circle of its radia-
tion.
	Cheerfulness leads to genuine kindness
and affability. Most persons can be endow-
ed with this precious gift if they rightly
appreciate its possession, and seek to culti-
vate it. I can see only two reasons that
could tear this happiness from us, and they
are these, an inward consciousness of guilt,
and disbelief in a Supreme Being. An
atheist can never wear the same smile of
innocence, although infidels are, judging
from what I have ever heard, or read, giv-
en, at times, to excessive mirth but usually
inclined to melancholy, "and the glance of
melancholy is a fearful gift." Cheerfulness
is ever consistent with the spirit of our
holy religion.
	ANNA.
S. L. City, March 13, 1876.	A. W. G.


MISS ALETTA Jacobs has obtained the de-
gree of Doctor of Medicine in Holland. It
is the first time the title has been conferred
upon a lady in that country. She intends
to practice in Amsterdam.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.     Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The excursion of the old folks from this city
to Ogden took place on Tuesday, June 11, and
was a most interesting event. We most heart-
ily commend those who first conceived the
idea of giving the old folks an "out" of this
kind. The aged should always be looked upon
with esteem and respect, and any lack of cour-
tesy to a person in years should never be coun-
tenanced; and the strong and vigorous ought
to be ever ready to lend a helping hand to con-
tribute to their enjoyment. Life is serious,
but human nature makes many requisitions of
men and women, with its peculiar character-
istics, and people are sometimes neglectful of
affording seasonable recreation for those past
middle life. And the facts in this case prove
that among this people the aged and infirm
are not forgotten. Everything for the comfort
of the party had been previously arranged
systematically by the committee, Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter, Elders C. R. Savage and George
Goddard, with the assistance of Superintend-
ent John Sharp. President John Taylor, Elders
Wilford Woodruff and Joseph F. Smith, of the
Apostles, Presiding Bishop Hunter, with many
of the Bishops of the wards and other breth-
ren accompanied the party. There were thir-
teen cars loaded, and a happier company could
scarcely be found. The Tenth Ward brass
band played at each station by the way, and
other old people came aboard at each of the
stopping places. Everything that could add
to the enjoyment of the party seemed to have
been thought of by the kindly and discreet
committee. Cakes and candles with some ex-
cellent lemonade were passed through the cars
freely to all, and a general good feeling was
manifested. The Seventh Ward Glee Club,
with Elder George Goddard, sang in each car
some appropriate and lively songs.
	Arrived at Ogden, a committee were in wait-
ing to give the company a welcome reception;
the Ogden brass band was playing delightfully;
a party of little girls dressed in white presented
bouquets to the most aged, and teams were in
waiting to take the entire company to the
Grove, where all needful preparations had been
made to make every one comfortable. Tables
were ready and stoves set up, so that those who
wished could have tea or coffee prepared for
them, and blooming young girls were there to
render any assistance to the old people. The
grove was simply delightful, with its heavy
foliage overhead for shade, and green grass un-
derneath for carpeting, and the sunshine, sub-
dued and mild as it slantingly gleamed between
the boughs of the venerable trees, lent a glow-
ing radiance to the scene, and lit up the smil-
ing countenances of those who met there un-
der such peculiar circumstances. Friends long
parted clasped hands once more, dear acquaint-

[Column 2]

ances renewed their former associations for a
moment, and greetings of those who may
never meet again this side the vail were inter-
changed." "O it was wonderful," Was this
great grove full, And all hearts were brimful
Of a bliss that was joyful. President Peery
and his counselors, Elder Franklin D. Richards,
Mayor Farr, and many others used their ut-
most endeavors to make the occasion a happy
one. A more quaint and curious spectacle was
never presented than this grove scene, with
the old folks, and their picnic in little groups
here and there, eating, talking and laughing.
	After the refreshments had been partaken of
by all, the company was called to order by El-
der George Goddard, and they sang "Come let
us anew," &c. Elder L. W. Hancock offered
prayer, and the famous singers, the Italiau
brothers, gave a song in their own language.
Then prizes were distributed, first to the oldest
persons present; the first one being awarded
to Catherine Wilson, 96 years old, born in Mer-
rionetshire, Wales. This old lady drove a
team across the plains, through the rivers,
over steep mountain passes in 1848. The sec-
ond prize was given to William Wild, 95, born
in Northamptonshire, England. The next
prizes were to the oldest persons who had drawn
a handcart over the plains, and the next prizes
were to old ladies who had borne the largest
number of children. Ann Moss had been
married 50 years, and had borne twenty-one
children; Sarah Haslam had borne twenty chil-
dren; and Elizabeth Taylor had borne fourteen
children, and had 600 grand-children and
great-grand-children. Other prizes were dis-
tributed, some to ladies who had yoked and un-
yoked their own cattle and driven them across
the plains, and for several other extraordinary
occurrences and so forth.
	Songs were sung by old gentlemen and la-
dies, foot races were run, jigs danced, and a
variety of incidental impromptus filled up the
time. Music by the bands followed, and after
that speeches from the stand, while the audi-
ence listened in rapt awe and solemnity to
hear the words of the men of God as they ad-
dressed them on this memorable occasion.
Mayor Farr, of Ogden, was the first speaker—
he welcomed them one and all of every class
and creed to Ogden, thanked them for their
company, felt honored with their visit, and
invoked blessings upon their heads.
	Bishop Hunter said he should be destitute of
human feeling if he were not grateful to all
who had aided in this agreeable excursion.
Related his experience in coming to Ogden the
first time, and incidents which transpired by
the way, when there was only one white man
there in the first settlement of this Territory.
Told the people he should be 85 years old on
the 22d day of this month and was bale and
hearty. Said he remembered well the day
when Washington was buried—the gloom that
rested upon the people, what kind of a day it
was, and many things connected with it, and
said he expected to stay a little longer on the
earth. He blessed the old folks and all who
had aided in the excursion.	*	*
	Elder Woodruff said he had met on that occa-
sion some of those with whom he had traveled
up to Zion's Camp, some of the Pioneers, and
some of the Mormon Battalion, and he did
not believe such an assembly as this could be
gathered in any other part of the world.	*	*
	President John Taylor expressed himself
blessed in meeting his friends; said the joy of
the Gospel did not diminish with age.	*	*
While we trusted iu the Almighty He would
never forsake us nor our children, but this
work would roll on, and living or dying all
was well; Zion would be built up and arise and

[Column 3]

shine. He blessed the fathers and mothers in
Israel, and all present, in the name of Jesus.
	Elder C. R. Savage then returned thanks to
all who had contributed to make the occasion
a pleasant one.
	As soon as possible, but in perfect order, the
people were conveyed to the depot, and soon
all were on board the train, the band playing
"Homeward Bound." The whole affair passed
off peacefully, and a universal good feeling
prevailed. The journey home was particularly
pleasant, for a smile of contentment and satis-
faction beamed on every face, and no accident
or incident had occurred to mar the happiness
of the occasion. It was a time long to be re-
membered, an occasion replete with senti-
ments of the most lofty character, and must
inspire in the hearts of every participator,
emotions of kindliness and a feeling to honor
the aged and infirm. Let us all encourage in
our children a desire to extend every courtesy
to those who are declining in years, and honor
their grey hairs. God bless the Old Folks.
	[---] Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AMONG ITEMS we are unable to publish in
this issue are Society Reports from South Jor-
dan, West Portage, Toguerville, Tooele, East
Bountiful, Kanab, Payson, Franklin, Mendon,
Spring City, and also other articles. We are com-
pelled to state again that we do not publish
obituary poems, but occasionally a verse or two
when we can do so consistently.
	On the 17th of May, in company with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, we visited South Cottonwood
Relief Society. The day was a stormy one,
and was a hindrance, no doubt. to a full at-
tendance, but the meeting was nevertheless an
excellent one. The annual report was read,
which reflected great credit on the sisters.
This society have a lot of their own sown with
wheat, and it is looking very well indeed. We
learned that the Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation was in good condition. We had a
pleasant time with the sisters, breakfast
with Mrs. Lucy Bullock, and took dinner with
Mrs. Cahoon, President of the Society; on our
way home visited the Germania Smelting 
Works.
	ON THURSDAY, June 6, we attended, in com-
pany with Miss E. R. Snow, the Relief Socie-
ty Meeting of the Second Ward. The meet-
ing was presided over with dignity by Mrs.
Sarah Wheeler; the minutes were excellent,
and showed the energy and activity of the sis-
ters in the labors of the kingdom. There was
a goodly attendance and a full and free flow of 
the Spirit of God. The remarks made by the 
sisters were earnest, strong and practical.
Miss Snow spoke impressively to the young
upon Celestial Marriage, and urged upon the
young people the necessity of entering into
these holy covenants; exhoted them above all
things to hold htis principle sacred, and never
upon any account speak evil of it. After
meeting the officers of the Society and invited
guests repaired to Br. Leek's residence and
partook of a suptuous repast.
	THE DESERET University closed for the year
on Friday, June 7. The exercises were enter-
taining, and showed the advanced progress of
the institution. Pres. John Tayler, Professors
Lewis and Riggs, Elder Joseph F. Smith,
David McKenzie, Wm. Jennings, George Rey-
nolds, C. W. Stayner, James Dwyer and some
others were present by invitation. Dr. Park,
principal of the school, read the names of
those who had been awarded certificates in the
Normal course, and the graduates in the Aca


demical course. We would like to give the
names here, but have not space; we noticed
with much satisfaction the name of Miss Mat-
tie H. Paul (one of our lady typoes) as a grad-
uate in Chemistry. An appropriate speech
was made by Mr. Roberts, followed with re-
marks by Prest. Taylor, Prof. Lewis, George
Reynolds, Regent, and Professors Toronto and
Kingsbury. Mr. Frank Cannon, in behalf of
a committee of the students, presented to Pro-
fessors Park and Toronto two pairs of beauti-
ful engravings, as a testimonial of esteem and
appreciation of their diligent labors. The gen-
tlemen responded happily, althongh taken en-
tirely by surprise.
	The Second Quarterly Meeting of all the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, on Saturday, the
22nd day of June, and will convene at 2
o'clock p.m. The President and Secretary of
the Board desired us to state that they wished
the Reports handed in from the several branch-
es as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the
work of the Secretary, and that everything
might be arranged in perfect order. The breth-
ren and sisters who are interested in promot-
ing women's interest in Zion are cordially in
vited to be present on the occasion. It is ex-
pected that, at this Quarterly meeting,
there will be time and opportunity to hear
from some of the brethren of the Quorum of
Apostles and other honored brethren, and also
from the presidents of the various branches of
the Relief Society and other sisters who may 
be present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


VISIT TO BEAR LAKE VALLEY

	I left home Thursday morning, April 4th
to visit my children in Bear Lake Valley, go-
ing by way of Evanston. I heard part of a
conversation between some gentlemen on the
cars, which was very amusing. There was a
little man aboard who seemed to be very ner-
vous and inquisitive; on arriving at a small
town he said, "What place is this?" A gen-
tleman from Salt Lake City (not of our faith)
replied, "This is Echo" The little man asked,
"Are there any Mormons here?" The answer
was "I do not know; if there are any they will
not hurt you." He then gave him a short ac-
count of the building up of the town while they
were building the railroad, the number of in-
habitants, how many men and women and
how many Mormons there were then; he him-
self living there at the time. "Now," said he,
"I live in Salt Lake City, with Mormon neigh-
bors all around me; they treat me as well as
they do their own people. One thing I like
about them they support their own poor, and
sustain their won church, while other denomi-
nations are always begging of me. They make
me pay them money every year, while the
Mormons let me alone." "Well," said the
nervous man, "I don't know anything about
them, only what I hear in the East. I would
like to go to Salt Lake myself." The other
gentleman said, "You would find there a good,
industrious people."
	At Evanston I took the stage, arriving at
Woodruff about eight o'clock, and was kindly
entertained by Bishop Lee and family. Sister
Lee, who is President of the Relief Society,
said that they were raising stock to sell for the
purpose of raising money to buy wheat to store
away, as it was too cold to raise much grain in
that valley. I commended them for their en-
ergy  and wished them success in the enter-
prise, and I counseled the other Societies in
Bear Lake Valley to go into the same business.
	The next day I went to Paris, a distance of
sixty miles, arriving on Friday, and found my
children all well. During my stay I met with
the Relief Societies of the First and Second
Wards in Paris, also with the Young Ladies'
Associations. I also visited Montpelier, St.
Charles, Ovid and Bloomington, and accom-
panied President Budge, by invitation from
him, to Liberty, and assisted Bishop Austin in
organizing a Relief Society in that place. I
told them they were behind the times, and
living beneath their privileges in being so long
without an organization. President Rich and
Budge are very much interested in the labors
of the sisters, also the Bishops that met with
us. Paris is improving very fast. On my re-
turn trip I met with the Mutual Improvement
Association of Meadowville. They having no
Relief Society, I told the sisters by all means to
have one organized by the Bishop, explaining
to them the difference between the two or-
ganizations-the Relief Society being organ-
ized by the Priesthood, to assist the Bishops in
looking after the poor of their Ward, as well
as other important duties they were called up-
on to perform, while the other was expressly
for improvement among the young; morally
and spiritually. I was everywhere met with
love and kindness. We had much of the Spir-
it of God in our meetings, and all felt bl[---]
and benefitted. We had a pleasant trip home
in our own carriage, my husband and part of
his family being with me, arriving about eight
o'clock Sunday evening, May 6, finding all
well, for which blessing I am truly thankful to
my Heavenly Father.
				M. ISABELLA HORNE.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
PLEASANT MOMENTS.

	The influence of moments spent in pleasant
company, or among pleasant surroundings is
always elevating. Everybody is ready to ac-
knowledge the influence of plesaant people.
There is something invigorating and refreshing
in the society of people of pleasant and kindly
manners, even though they know nothing of
the rules of etiquette, and are not versed in
language, or science. They reflect themselves
and carry the sunshine of life with them,
which gladdens all that come within the radius
of its beams. But pleasant moments impress
themselves upon the heart, they linger in our
memory like some bright dream, and we recall
them again and again, and live them over and
over in imagination.
	Times, hours, moments, spent among scenes
that have engraven themselves upon memo-
ry's tablets form pleasant episodes in the his-
tory of individuals; they not only impress us
happily and add to our enjoyment then, but
ever and anon along the journey of life, in
moments of quiet, or it may be when sorrow
lays its hand in chastening upon us, these mo-
ments of delight rise up to bless us with their
tender reminiscences, and we draw around us
with fancy's picturing the loved ones who
were near us in the far-off time, and breathe
in again, as it were, the exquisite luxury of
the moments never to be forgotten.
	It is not always wealth, or its appliances, or
surroundings, that yield most real pleasurable
moments; often in the rustic cottage beside
the open fire of pine knots, or in some plain,
homely garden, or perchance, under the boughs
of some gnarled and unsymmetrical old tree,
the tender thought, the brilliant jest may have
been called forth, that will live in memory
while life lingers. How peculiar are human
emotions, and how curiously they affect the

[Column 2]

body and the mind. All persons that have ar-
rived at middle age, at least, will agree with me
that moments of past pleasure are as drops of
gentle dew, or as soft healing balm, and ever
kindle anew sensations of joy. Life's roughest
paths, beset with thorns and difficulties, are
made easier and smoother, and all trials more
endurable, by the brighter passages which now
and then intervene, in the shape of pleasant
moments. Perchance it is only a visit of some
dear, precious friend, or relative, bringing with
them a true heart and the genuine sympathy
that is ever pleasing to the recipient, and a
weight is lifted for a moment, and we breathe
an elevating atmosphere for a time.
	Pleasures are short-lived, it is said, but we
might all add many pleasant moments to our
lives by becoming more truly helpful to each
other. When we reflect how much pleasure
we are capable of enjoying and imparting, we
should be wise enough to husband all the plea-
sant hours we can, and while we gather to our
hearts the honey which distils from acts of
kindness and words of love and tenderness, let
us scatter around our pathway the fragrance of
the rich treasures we have received. We think
too little of each other, and grow too hard and
practical, methinks, sometimes, neglecting the
pleasant moments we might enjoy, lest we
should lose our chance of gaining some de-
sired object; but no amount of wealth, or luxu-
ry, or attainments, can over satisfy tthe soul, if
all is crude and severe and narrow in our home
and its associations. The humble peasant toils
the live-long day, and if when night comes a
loving wife greets him with a kiss, a smile,
and lights up his home with a joyful counten-
ance, such moments repay the toil, the hard-
ship, and lift the soul beyond labor, to revel in
the realms of domestic bliss.
	Let us garner up in the storehouse of the
soul, along with the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge, the bright and happy remembrances
of exquisite pleasures and moments of true
enjoyment, and though these may be gone
forever, yet in the retrospective view we take
of time, they will beam upon us and give
pathos to the eloquence of life's tenderest
touches.		AUNT EM.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Mill Creek Ward, Salt Lake Co.,
June 3d, of Puerperal Fever and diseased lungs,
in her 44th year, Charlotte Rebecca Murphy,
wife of James D. Murphy. Deceased was born
in Uuion Dist., South Carolina; went with her
parents to Georgia when quite young; was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints May, 1808, by Elder Jesse
E. Murphy; emigrated to Utah in March, 1870,
where she continued to reside, faithfully per-
forming the duties of wife, mother, and Saint,
until the Lord called her to another field of
labor. Deceased was a member of the Relief
Society, and performed all the work in the
House of the Lord that time and opportunity
would admit of. She died in full faith, with
bright hopes of a glorious resurrection; truly
can it be said of her that she fought the good
fight, kept the faith, and there is a crown of
life and immortality in store for her. Truly
we mourn her loss, but not as those who have
no hope, for "Blessed are the dead who die in
the Lord, for their works do follow them.
	COM.


QUEEN Victoria was fifty-nine years old
on the 24th ult., and the anniversary was
made a holiday in Canada, while flags were
displayed on the British vessels in New
York.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE INFLUENCE OF WOMAN.

	The influence of woman, intellectually,
socially, morally, and religiously, upon so-
ciety to-day is great. Woman has, indeed,
more influence than she is aware of.
	A smart, intellectual woman will draw
around her minds of all ages and classes.
All will feel anxious to listen to her
thoughts and views upon the various sub-
jects of the day. From the mind of an in-
telligent, elderly person she will gain a
warm sympathy and admiration; from the
mind of an ignorant person she will draw
out the dormant faculties, and make him or
her understand that to become a MAN or
WOMAN of intelligent influence, one must
strive after knowledge and enlightenment;
from the mind of a child she will bring
forth wonder and enthusiasm, and a desire
to cultivate thoughts or abilities; and every
one will feel that she is a person worthy of
imitation.
	Also, a lady possessing a social disposi-
tion will exercise over her acquaintance a
great degree of happiness and peace. If
she is friendly and affable, her companions
will long to be in her society; for there
they will feel that the world is not all shad-
ow, but that by her social ways she sheds a
ray of sunshine on all around her, and
makes all hearts glad.
	Again, a lady possessing a good moral
natnre imparts the same to her friends, be-
cause while in her company the topics of
converstion are of a character that will im-
plant in all hearts a wish to be moral in all
their thoughts and actions, that they may
be like her. Their admiration will invol-
untarily rest upon her, and they cannot
help wishing they possessed similar moral
characteristics, and will eventually aspire 
to merit approbation in unison with hers.
	And again, a lady whose character is de-
voted to religion, is one that will bring all
hearts into subjection. Each person will
feel that she has a tendency to inspire the
heart with feelings of a pure, holy, and vir-
tuous nature. By her noble conduct she
will create in other hearts a love and ven-
eration for God and his sublime laws.
She will cause those with whom she min
gles to think of their evil ways, and for-
sake them, and turn unto their Creator, and
serve Him and praise His great name for
the precious gifts He abundantly bestows
upon all.
	When a lady is in possession of all these
divine attributes, she is, indeed, one who
has great influence over man and woman.
Even the lowest and most degraded per-
son stands before her rebuked and penitent.
All who know her will reverence and love
her, and strive to be worthy of her esteem
and friendship.
	O how great is the influence of a mother,
sister, wife, or sweetheart! A mother who
has a refined and gentle nature, who has
cultivated her thoughts and abilities, and
lived a pure, religious life, will exercise an
influence over her children, and inspire
them to become noble men and women.
She will imbue their minds with the prin-
ciples of right and justice, and teach them
to be pure, aimiable, charitable, benevo-
lent, patriotic sons and daughters of God
possessing true moral force and sterling
worth and goodness. How often can a
sister, by kind and gentle words, turn a
brother's mind from evil, and cause him to
see his error and forsake it. And the
sweetheart, or wife, by her chaste man-
ners and refined tastes, bring her lover, or
husband, to see and acknowledge the cor-
rectness of her arguments, and the clear-

[Column 2]

ness and beauty of her views. A noble,
true woman can ever soothe the poor suf-
ferer on his bed of sickness, calm the
aching heart, cheer the despondent, and
hallow a joy or success. Within her own
home she is the crowning joy of all its in-
mates; there each heart turns to her for
solace and comfort. If there is any sorrow
she is the first to modify or allay it; if any
pleasure, her presence enhances it; her in-
fluence is felt for good wherever she is.
What would home be without a gentle,
sweet-tempered woman there, to arrange
everything for the family? To prepare
some little elegant surprise, or pleasure?
Without her elevating and refining influ-
ence there would indeed be a cheerless
void.
	And the aged grandmother, in her quiet
corner, is like a ray of light from above.
Her counsel is always esteemed, and her
advice acknowledged to be good. Yes,
woman's influence is great! How careful,
then, should she be that it is not of a low
and degrading nature, but an influence that
will tend to make all better, and more
worthy of the love they receive from God;
that it may make all around her aspire to
be great and good, to live intelligently and
honestly, to strengthen their abilities, en-
large their capacities, brighten their intel-
lect, and understand their individual traits
and the principles of divine truth.
	Oh, sisters! strive to be all that you pro-
fess, always study to do good, and let the
Spirit of God dictate all your actions.
	C. E. H.


PIPSEY-PAPERS.

	A noted author says there are two things
necessary for a writer: first to have some-
thing to say and, secondly, to know how to
say it.  Lacking the first there is much
skill needed to use the second with ability.
Our Society is much interested in collecting
means for the Welsh Mission, we have al-
ready donated thirty-five dollars towards
their emigration.  No doubt as a general
thing we are not thankful enough for the
blessings we enjoy.  We make poor faces
and complain when we have bread in the
cupboard, and health in the family, forget-
ful of the days when we were glad to get
wool to spin for our dresses; when we spun
and wove all day and cut our cloth at
night, and made it up for the family com-
fort.  We had good servicable dresses then,
that lasted several years; the first year they
were usually kept for best, after which they
were usually kept for best, after which
they were taken for everyday wear, and
new ones made for Sundays, Do you re-
member sisters how much pains was taken
in dyeing, how carefully the sage brush
was boiled in the big kettle and set with
alum or copperas to make the requisite
shades for plaiding; and how proud we
were if our dresses were as fine, as smooth,
as bright colored as our neighbors'.  Then
our dainty feet were encased in good home-
made, valley-tan calfskin; one pair of shoes
lasted a year; they were put ou in the fall
and the lady who kept hers the longest,
was the envy of her less fortunate sisters.
Some of the ladies had ingenuity enough
to make their own summer shoes, with a
little help, perhaps, from the village shoe-
maker who would sew on the soles in the
evening when his day's work in the field
was done, if he was industriously inclined,
in view, perhaps, of a nice roll of butter
for his holiday dinner.
	My reminiscences may be considered in
bad taste, but I cannot help thinking of
these things when I see my sisters robed in
"purple and fine linen," with their voluni-
nous skirts sweeping the dust from the
sidewalks, and hear them find fault and
complain of their privations and harships.
We should thank God for every blessing
and carry our small annoyances as lightly
as possible, for we never know when mis-
fortune may overtake us.  My neighbor,
Mrs. Ezra Oakley received a letter from her
husband, at Leeds saying that he was well,
and doing well.  The next day the word
came flashing over the wires that he was
dead; died of pneumonia and heart-disease
at the age of twenty-six, leaving a wife
and child, a mother and two sisters wild
with grief at the unexpected bereavement.
How small the common worriments of life
seem compared to such a sorrow!
	Speaking of our daily crosses, brings to
mind a dream I will relate, hoping my sis-
ters may profit by its teachings as I have
done.
	I thought I saw a child buried in very
beautiful robes.  After the friends had
gone away I said to a woman standing by,
what a pity it was for such beautiful cloth-
ing to be hidden and rot in the ground
when something plainer would do as well;
let us take it up and keep the clothing our-
selves, which we accordingly did, putting
some plainer things upon the body and
burying it again.  When fairly through
our task we began thinking what we had
done and what dreadful consequences would
follow if it was discovered.  An awful ter-
ror come over us insomuch that we conclud-
ed to take the child up and put the clothes
back. When we tried to do so some one
came by and we waited for them to pass,
and others came and hindered us until we
were called away and it was not accom-
plished.  I awoke in grief and tears, and
the interpretation was given me then.  It
meant that if we had troubles or disagree-
ments when they were settled and past, we
should let them lie buried and not bring
them forth to annoy us, for it was difficult
to have them replaced.  So whenever  I
thought of a past grievance I remembered
my dream and said nothing about it.  When
you are disposed to bring forward old
troubles to torture or distress you, just re-
member it will be hard to bury them as
they were before and let them alone.  I
have seen much happiness since I took that
for my motto, and let my troubles lie bur-
ies.						MARY.


MEADOWVILLE.

	This place is surrounded by gentle slop-
ing mountains covered with beautiful green
verdure to sustain animal life; and as Au-
tumn approaches every variegated color one
can conceive, attracts the eye. The mead-
ows lying east of the town, fenced in for
hay and pasturage afford an abundance of
the best quality of hay, equal to tame grass;
it grows two to three feet in height wet
seasons. Butter is made here of the best
quality, yellow, rich and hard, through the
summer season; I have churned butter in
the month of July, and it would be as hard
as in other climates in the winter. Had
we oak firkins, and pure salt, our butter
could not be surpassed for sweetness and
solidity. If some one would take an inter-
est in setting out a few acres of the oak,
what great advantage could be derived
therefrom. Here we have one of the most
beautiful and romantic springs, the largest
in the Territory, forming a creek three
miles in length, which empties itself into
Bear Lake. In this spring the trout came
up to spawn from the Lake. From this


spring is brought a ditch around the West
hills to irrigate with; this brings a
great deal of land under cultivation, this
ditch is rather sluggish as it has not much
fall.  A greater project has been entered in-
to by bringing the water from a contrary
direction, bringing out the water from a
higher location and uniting small springs
which run a considerable distance higher
than the other, thns bringing under culti-
vation hundreds of acres that could not oth-
erwise have been cultivated.  In about two
weeks time, five miles of this ditching has
been made by the energetic and stalwart
sons of Israel.  What will union, when com-
bined with effort not accompish? It will
make the earth like the Garden of Eden,
to blossom like the rose, and yield forth
her strength.  To-day the brethren are sur-
veying for a ditch to carry the water
around the east hills, which if successful,
will invite the settlers to build their coun-
try seats above the ditch in the side-hills,
which will afford dry cellars, early gardens
and orchards.  A row of dwellings on the
east and west side of the town, with gar-
dens and orchards in front would make the
scenery remind one of the Highlands of
Scotland. Would that a few of the hardy
race from the north regions would come
and help settle this salubrious climate.
Here the sweet pure air is bracing, it
comes from the mountain-tops clad with
snow, breaking through the timbers, and
onward to the blue waters of the lake.
Here one can sleep in sweet repose for the
nights are always cool.  This high and
healthy location, would lengthen out the
days of the invalid and the weakly could
not spend their time to better advantage
than to pay a visit to Bear Lake to recruit.
We would invite a few mechanics to our
valley; a blacksmith would do well, as all
the travel this way, passes through here,
when the road is open.  A man or two with
large families could find employment for
boys or girls, as farmers are always in need
of help, and a more healthy place could
not be found to raise a family.  We have a
day and Sunday school, Fast meetings, and
two Society meetings.  It seems to me
that if there were means to emigrate, none
need suffer in the old countries, for there
is an abundance of land lying here in an
uncultivated state.  Sisters let us appropri-
ate a portion of our means to the emigra-
gration fund, every society can do some-
thing. Little girls pick up the waste pieces,
wash and color them nicely, make them
into carpets or make quilts, and instead of
raffling them off, surprise needy sisters
with them, and each one pay ten or fifteen
cents and put the means in the fund.
This would answer two purposes, and your
work would be greatly blest.  In country
towns we can glean all kinds of grain, and
get produce, and where fruit grows, dry it;
if the frost takes the grain we will save the
straw, and braid it into hats, to assist in
bringing the Saints from abroad, that they
may help to build up Zion and strengthen
her Stakes.
						M. A. PRATT.
Mae dowville, May 24th, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
    As we wish always to be numbered with
those your paper represents, we thought
we would report ourselves again. We are
trying to be as self-sustaining as possible,
and alive to the duties of our calling. We
have had a visit from Sisters E.R. Snow 
and E. Davis, for which we are very grate-
ful, and hope to ever retain the spirit of
the instuctions given, that they may be as
beneficial as they were encouraging. We
welcome the EXPONENT and thought if
not intruding to much we would like you
to give space in its columns for the minutes
of the meeting.
					May 12th, 1878.

 A meeting called on account of a visi.
from Sister E. R. Snow and E. Davis
Pres't. M. L. Woolf, presiding. Singing
--Prayer by Bishop R. Daines. Singing--
The President thanked the sisters and gave
the meeting into their hands. Sister Snow
said we were one if we were true Latter-
day Saints, desired the prayers of the 
saints, that true saints were not satisfied
but by the Spirit of God. In the Church
there is but one interest; she had the same
interest for this ward that she had for the
one over which she presided. That the
time was when it was preposterous for a
woman to talk when brethren were present,
that we were learning our true position;
in Eden the same law was given to man
and woman but through transgression men
rule. What women ever be from under
that curse? Not outside of this church.
We have much to live for, for if worthy
we are joint-heirs with Jesus Christ. We
stand at the head of womankind. Joseph
said in the eternal worlds we had the choice
to attain to the reward of the faithful. We
are the truly noble; we should give CASTE
to the Gentile world, not pattern after it;
but we could not do so in ignorance, we
must cultivate ourselves. We have germs
implanted within us that we can aspire to
the highest positions. We should converse
on subjects pertaining to every day life,
but by way of encouragement we should
speak of the glorious future of the faithful.
We have no interest but the Kingdom of

God; when Zion prospers we prosper; we
should live above the trials of this life, we 
should forget ourselves in the great mis-
sion we had to perform, should not com-
plain of our many aches and pains, and
should not judge harshly. The brethren
talk of great matters, we have to deal with 
small matters but underlyning great ones.
Joseph said sisters were more capable to ad-
minister to the sick and comfort them, but
there is a sympathy that is false and does
not tend to good; we should not pity each
other in our trials, but encourage each oth-
er to overcome them. Bear with each oth-
er's faults, wrong will not right wrong.
All the sisters should belong to the Relief 
Society and be live members; God has or-
ganized these Societies for women to help
the priesthood, unless we meet as God has
appointed we would lack spiritual food.
We should be fellow-workers, should be 
charitable with each other, nothing produc-
es true happiness but the Spirit of God.
Women give character to society, mothers
should be real saints. Mothers have great
influence and are not working for today
only. The Lord wanted a generation of
Saviors. Showed to the young sisters the
necessity of preparing themselves for their
high calling, and the young men to never
defile their tabernacles by the use of tobac-
co or liquor, nor ever profane the name of
the Deity; but to aim high, they could not
aim so high but what they could attain it if
they lived up to the privleges of the Gos-
pel. The Lord could not save the human
family without Celestial Marriage; this life
is nothing to the eternity to come. Sisters
E. Davis bore her testimony  to the truth
of our faith; would like the sisters to take
the EXPONENT, that Mormon women could
be represented through their own paper. 
Bishops Daines and Roskelly thought if the 
inst6ructions given were carried out that we
should be blest, good counsel given by good
men and women should be as land marks
unto us, prayed the Lord to us with 
retentive memories. Mrs. Davis spoke of
the privileges of the ballot, that we should
improve our oppurtunities, or we may loose
them; the sisters should urge their hus-
bands to obtain their naturalization papers.
By request, recited a poem on Celestial
Marriage. 

Pres. Mary Woolf thought we were 
blest if we would carry out the good instruc-
tions. Singing--Benediction by J.A.
Woolf jun.
			MARY L. WOOLF, Pres't
			MARY E. GRIFFITH Sec'y.
--Hyde Park Jan. 3d.


THE PROPOSITION TO DISFRANCHISE
	THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	The papers inform us that the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives
has recommitted the passage of a bill di-
franchising the women of Utah.
	On reading such an announcement one
feels as if some day the patience of the
women of this country would be exhausted,
and they would, under these repeated in-
sults and trials, revolt in some dumb and
helpless way against the tyranny of men
who, while professing privately all possible
admiration and affection for our sex, yet
thus publicly humiliate and injure us.
	Such conduct is like that of a man who
with one arm encircles a woman's waist,
and bending over her tells her she is all that
lovely and charming, while with the other
hand he stabs her to the heart!
	For look what a cruel and absurd propo-
sition is this: to advise taking from the
women of the Territory the right of suf-
frage in order to do away with polygramy.
Always the women, never the men. One
would think that this institution had been
invented by women, that they alone were
responsible for its iniquities, and therefore
would be justly punished by being deprived
of their liberties. How completely this is
of a piece with man’s usual treatment of
the sex. Something is wrong somewhere
in the social fabric. Some one must be
blamed, somebody must be punished. Not
the men, oh dear no! They have the
might, and therefore the right, but here
are these feeble, silly women, there is no
one to defend them, fall upon them and
beat and kick them.
	So in order to prevent intemperance,
Rhode Island passes a law that “no liquor
shall be sold to a female.” (Was an absurd-
ity greater, as if the drunkards were all
women; and if you could only stop them
drinking all would be well!)
	Certain places of amusement announce
that “no lady will be admitted without a 
gentleman.” Poor dears, what care the
men do take of their chastity to be sure!
Without this restriction some horrid fallen
woman might come in and perhaps seduce
some innocent man—if there be such a
thing. But any number of horrid fallen
men may roam about at large and try to
seduce young girls and virtuous wives—
that is of no sort of consequence.
	And now, in order to abolish polygramy,
Congress is asked to pass a law to disfran-
chise-the women!
	Of course we all know that the ballot is
practically almost useless in the hands of


both men and women in Utah, where they
are under Mormon rule.  But surely com-
mon sense and common justice would dic-
tate that the bill should be so drawn as to
disfranchise all polygamists, both men and
women, there would then be some reason
in this suggestion.
	There is a possibility that such an infa-
mous law will not find supporters enough
in the House to prevent its enactment, and
yet who can say?  The hands of the wo-
men of the land are tied; their voices are
not heard within those walls; they are
powerless to prevent this or any other in-
sult.
	And yet men pretend to represent us!
What an absurdity!  If the men held their
seats by the votes of women, no one would
dare to suggest such a proposition- men
represent women!  Yes, as tyrants repre-
sent slaves, as hawks represent doves, as
wolves represent lambs!
	[One paragraph in the above article calls
for criticism, but we believe the lady has
written this conscientiously.  She has heard
from what should be truthful and reliable
sources that "the ballot is practically almost
useless in the hands of both men and wo-
men in  Utah under Mormon rule."  We
beg leave to differ with her there, and
would be glad to have an opportunity of
meeting the lady and assigning good and
plausible reasons for the difference of the opin-
ion, as we are posted on the subject and
she is not.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


"BEAUTY and booty," was the cry of the
young man who kissed the girl and was
kicked by her father.

	PREACHER (to boy on the street): "My
little man, is your father a Christian?"
Boy: "Yes, but he ain't working at it much
lately."


[Column 1]
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Otti[-]
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH JULY 1, 1878


For the EXPONENT.
ODE TO JUNE.

	Bright, beautiful June, with thy long, pleasant days,
Thy sunshine and languor, and soft, dreamy ways,
All blushing, and glowing, and radiant in bloom,
Bathing mountain, and meadow, and vale with perfume;
O what a world of blossoms, and of flowers,
In the month of June, is this fair earth of ours.

	The glory that rests on the mountains and hills,
And music of rivers, and fountains, and rills,
And the song of the robin, and coo of the dove,
(Inspiring emotions of tenderest love,)
These well forth in freshness, all sweetly attune,
To greet with a welcome the young maiden, June.

	Old lichened woods are dark with living green,
And blushing roses everywhere are seen;
And all the live-long night the thrush and nightingale,
Pour forth in sweetest strains, in some deep vale,
Their tales of love, their mysteries, pain and grief,
And in sweet sympathy with them there is relief -

	For those who mourn, with sorrowing hearts and tears,
The loved and cherished ones of other years,
There is an enchantment in the song and hour,
And dreams steal o'er us with bewitching power,
While shadowed fancies round our couches play,
Till larks and swallows welcome the coming day.

	And once again the earth is robed in light,
And princess June is crowned in wild delights,
Her sceptre garlanded with wreaths of flowers,
Proudly she sits within her leafy bowers;
And everywhere her dainty feet have trod,
She left an impress of the power of God.
							E. B. Wells EMILE.


For the EXPONENT.
JACOB'S PILLOW VERSUS PILLAR.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
All who have visited and explored the
glories and beauties of the great National
Cathedral of England, Westminister Abney,
have been shown "The Coronation stone"
on which the chair of state is placed, that
has borne the sovereigns of England for
many centuries at their coronation.  This
stone has a most wonderful history - it is
said to be the identical stone that Jacob
took for his pillow, when he was sent by
his parents to Padan-aram to take a wife
of the family of Bethnel, his mother's
brother; he arrived late in the evening at
the city, and found the gates were shut; "as
the sun was set," and being very weary
with his long journey, he looked around
and found a stone that he took for his pil-
low, laid down and soon fell asleep; and
God gave him a wonderful dream, or vision:
He saw a ladder set upon the earth, and
the top reached into heaven!  The angels
of God were ascending and descending on
it, and "the Lord stood at the top of it;"--
and in the vision He made a covenant with
Jacob that He would give him the land
whereon he was then sleeping. and pro-
ceeded to give him mighty blessings, and
promised that He would not leave him till
he had done all that He had said.  And
Jacob awoke, and he felt afraid and said,
"This is none other but the House of God!
and this is the Gate of Heaven"--"And he
took the stone that he had put for his pil-
low and set it up for a pillar, and poured
oil upon the top of it, and paid his vows
unto the Lord upon it as a pillar of witness
between him and his God! And said, This
stone which I have set for a pillar shall be
God's House, and I will give a tenth unto
the Lord." [Read Genesis, 28th chap , be-
ginning at the 10th verse; it is very inter-
esting throughout.]
	A very powerful tradition, amounting
almost to an historical account, declares this
stone beneath the Throne Chair in West-
minister Abbey is the identical stone that
Jacob took for his pillow, and afterwards
consecrated with holy oil, and set it up as a
pillar of witness, and as such it stands to-
day.  It is also called "the stone of desti-
ny," and the belief is that the destiny of
England, the firm basis on which her laws
and constitution, her success in arms, her
wealth and prosperity as queen of nations,
is bound up and connected by this wonder-
fnl stone!  Many prophecies are cited to
establish facts - it is believed that the Pro-
phet Jeremiah visited Britain and that a
daughter of the royal house of David ac-
companied him,and they carried this sacred
stone with them.  It was then carried to
Ireland, and afterwards taken by Fergus
XIV. to Scotland, who was crowned upon
upon it at Iona first King of Scotts and
Picts, A. D. 530--afterwards Kenneth II.
was crowned upon it King at Sione in Pictia.
Through James I. of Scotland, and VI. of
England, it was brought to England, and
placed where it has remained ever since, in
Westminister Abbey.  All the sovereigns
down to Queen Victoria have received up-
on it their royal crown and holy anointings
as such in regular and undisputed descent;
and I expect it is far more highly valued
than the Kor i nor.  It is an interesting
employment to trace out the many prophe-
cies respecting this wonderful stone--"The
Stone of Israel"--that are found in the Bi-
ble; and the very fact of so many sove-
reigns being inaugurated upon it for so
many centuries, establishes it as "a pillar
of witness" between God and those He has
seen fit to honor.
	We live in marvelous times, and many
things and many persons now thought little
of will be brought out by the providences
of God, and made to stand forth as those
whom HE delights to honor.  It has been
said the stones of the street will rise up
and testify.  Will not that rough, ragged
and weather-beaten old stone in Westmin-
ster Abbey, yet be exalted in its silent elo-
quence of long, long years, and the Kor-i-
nor, and the "Pill diamond," and the Queen
of Portugal's "largest diamond in the
world" sink into comparative insignifi-
cance?


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEORGE ELIOT, the most popular wo-
man writer of fiction at the present time,
is busy upon a new work entitled, "The
Lifted Veil."
	THE NUMBER of arrests in New York
City for the year 1877 were 88,239; 22,000
were women, and 64,000, nearly three-
fourths of the whole, men.
	THE LUTTRELL bill was reported upon
by the Committee on Territories during
the last hours of the session of the Forty-
Fifth Congress. The paragraph disfranchis-


ing polygamists had been erased. The bill
is laid over, and women have the franchise-
in Utan still. It will be a dif[-]icult matter
to pass the bill at any time, on account of
the clause relating to woman's suffrage, for
the agitation of that subject is becoming
more general every day, and one step gained
in that direction will be held with tenacity
by those who are anxious to obtain univ[--]
sal suffrage, irrespective of sex. Congress
has adjourned for the summer, and ere it
again reassembles there will so much labor
have accumulated, that these old bills will
be secondary considerations, or forgotten
altogether.
	THE NUMBER of assaults upon women in
Washington is something to attract atten-
tion, and Justice Wylie, in addressing the
jury in one of these cases, used very severe
language. "He said that ladies, either
young or old, are no longer safe from insult
while walking alone in the streets of that
city, nor are the outrages committed alone
by representatives of the lower classes.
Some of those who are called respectable
are guilty of them, and they especially
should be made to suffer the full penalties
of the law. Young women, he said, on ap-
pearing alone on the streets of Washington
after dark, are attacked like the children
of Bengal, and these tigers in human form
do not stop to ascertain whether their vic-
tims are respectable or not. So serious has
this evil become, he said, that he is tired
of it; hardly a day passes that a case of
this kind is not either brought before him
or before the lower Court."


CORRESPONDENCE.

				LONDON, March 20th, 1878.
	From the ladies of the Relief Society of the
White Chapel Branch, London, to the ladies of
the Relief Society of the Fifteenth Ward,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
DEAR SISTERS:
	We return you our sincere thanks for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT which we have received
from you, and we find much valuable infor-
mation in its columns and we trust that by the
Spirit of God we may use the information we
gain to the blessing of the poor, and the build-
ing up of God's kingdom. Pardon us for not
writing before, as we were about to celebrate
our Fourth Anniversary we thought you
would like to hear something about it. It
took place on the the 6th of March, we cele-
brated it with a festival. President Cook and
Elder Burton were with us, and all things were
very pleasant. We have made about six hun-
dred visits among the poor saints in the last
year, and we have given among them, 9£. 0s.
8d; out of 9£, 5s. 2d., colected, leaving us in
hand 4s. 6d.
	Trusting that the Spirit of God may ever be
with you, and us in our labors of love and that
it meet your minds to continue favoring us
with "WOMAN EXPONENT," we remain your
sisters in the Covenant of Peace.
	Relief Society Officers as follow; Elizabeth
Young, President; Susan La Page, Ann H
Perry, Counselors; Ann H. Perry, Secretary;
Susan Whi[-]pen, Alice House, Jane Lower,
Eliza Farns, Elizabeth Nankvell, Teachers
			ANN H. PERRY, Secretary.


18		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THIRD QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

RELIEF SOCIETY SALT LAKE COUNTY.

	Minutes of a meeting held Saturday,
June 22d, 1878, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-
dent of Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake,
presiding. Counselors Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and S. M. Heywood, Secretary Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. Marinda Hyde, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Elder
O. F. Whitney, repor[-]er for Deseret News,
and Presidents of Relief Societies from dif-
ferent settlements occupied the stand and
platform. After singing, and prayer by
Counselor E. S. Taylor, the Secretary, E.
Howard, read the minutes of the last Con-
ference, which were accepted, and then
the Quarterly report of each branch of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake County, except
the Eleventh and Nineteenth Wards of Salt
Lake City, and West Jordan, which were
not reported, were read. President Horne
then made some remarks, a part of which
are given below:
	"I do not like the word begging, which
is used in some of the reports; the word
should not be used; it is not begging, but
voluntary gifts that are contributed for
benevolent purposes. Moses called on the
Children of Istael in the wilderness to do-
nate for building a Tabernacle, and they
gave so freely of their jewels that he told
them to stop, for he had more than enough.
It was not begging. There are two or
three items I wish to mention. We are co-
laborers with the brethren, we are keeping
an account of our labors in a Stake capacity,
our Secretary needs a book for this purpose,
our Corresponding Secretary needs paper,
envelopes, stamps, pens and ink for her la-
bor. We require some means for these
public uses. At Draperville the other day,
when I was visiting the Relief Society, the
sisters contributed six dollars and ninety
cents towards a fund for that purpose. It
is a great day for women in Zion. Last
Annual Conference was the first time that
women were voted for at a Conference. I
am glad our labors are coming into notice.
When the Church was first organized there
were only six members, but it soon in-
creased in numbers; the Twelve were called
and Bishops and other officers were set
apart for various offices. In due time a
revelation was given through the prophet
to Emma, that she should read and exponnd
the Scriptures to the women, and she was
ordained to fill the position as President of
a Relief Society.
	We hope to have our next Conference
held all day. At that meeting we would
like to have a report of the labor done, and
also of the spiritual improvement. Let
each one ask herself how much she has im-
proved in speaking, praying and doing
good."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball: "I feel a degree of
diffidence and of pleasure in standing be-
fore you to-day. The 19th of next month
will be the Thirtieth anniversary of the
first organization of women in the States—
you will pardon me for referring to this,
but it is to compare it with the date of the
organization of women in this Church,
which goes farther back. A few of us
met together in my parlor in Nauvoo; we
had a desire to do something towards help-
ing to build the Temple. We had some
by-laws written out by Sister E. R. Snow,
and we showed them to President Joseph
Smith, and he said he was glad to have the
opportunity of organizing the women, as a

[Column 2]
part of the priesthood belonged to them.
He wished us to meet in the Masonic Hall,
over the "brick store," in Nauvoo, and we
did so, and there organized on the 17th of
March, 1842. Emma Smith was chosen to
preside, by unanimous vote, and Joseph
told us that she was an elect lady, as she
had been elected. Our sisters in the States
are seeking to improve their condition.
Miss Anthony, one of the leading women
among them, well known everywhere, has
written to Mrs. Wells, Editor of the EXPO-
NENT, saying the women of Utah as a body
MUST fight for the maintenance of the right
to vote, and also to get national guarantee
for all women in the nation. President
Smith the Prophet said women should ask
us for advice, and the time should come
when the women of this Church should
lead in such matters.	*	*	We should
make suggestions to each other for improve-
ment." She then read some rules that
had been written out for the Society over
which she presided.	*	*
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: "I feel it a pleasant
duty to stand before yo[-] on this occasion;
we come together from time to time accord-
ing to appointment, to confer together on
important matters relating to our labors as
a Relief Society, and to give an account of
our hu[-]nble stewardships. Year by year we
are becoming better acquainted with each
other through these gatherings together,
and we are obtaining a knowledge of the
position we occupy, and learning to fill it
more and more creditably. Nothing else
could have effected the good that has been
done through the labors of the sisters in
these organizations. We are gradually en-
larging our sphere of usefulness, as we de
velop our capabilities. In coming together
we are of mutual benefit to each other in
interchanging our ideas, and we learn to
love each other, and we strengthen each
other's faith; we come here not to report
individual labors. but to report the general
condition of the societies. It seems to me
it would be well to report the spiritual con-
dition as well as financial, the amount of
work done, the number of meetings held,
what kind of meetings, whether testimony,
teachers', or working meetings, and the ag-
gregate number of attendance; the names
of Assistant Secretaries and Treasurers,
also Presidents of Teachers, should be given
in the report with the number of Teachers.
Sister Eliza has told us many times the
important duty of the Teachers, in visiting
among the Saints; it is a holy calling, and
a responsible place to fill. The Scriptures
say, "Pure religion and undefiled before
God and the Father, is to visit the widow
and the fatherless," etc. We should take
especial pains to conduct ourselves in such
a manner as to ensure the re[-]pect and confi-
dence of each other, and be ever helpful
and considerate of each other's feelings,
and hold sacred each other's characters; we
want to become efficient, practical and ex-
perienced workers, helps to the brethren,
helps to the priesthood; we, my sisters, are
the pioneer workers in these institutions,
laying the foundation, for if the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets are fulfilled,
our young women will eventually be called
to fill high positions in connection with the
young brethren in this Church. A great
deal has already been done in taking care
of the poor, in donating to Temples, in
storing up grain; President Young had
great confidence in the sisters labors.	*	*
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards: "I always feel hap-
py to sit and listen, yet I have ever a testi-
mony to bear, and when the Lord assists
us we can do anything.	*	*	I have been 

[Column 3]
thinking of the first of the Stake organiza-
tions, when President Young first said we
were to have Quarterly meetings, I was
astonished, it almost made me stagger; the
idea of the sisters having a Conference;
but we have accomplished some little, and
it has been of benefit, no matter what our
duties are, if the Lord helps us we will be
successful. Our daughters will be able to
do much more than we have done; a good
many of us have been pushed here and
there, persecuted and driven, our opportu-
nities have been scanty, and we could not
do as we would, traveling from place to
place; but now we are prospering here,
and our children are having many advan-
tages, and the Lord requires us to speak of
his goodness and talk of his blessings.
Some think there is no necessity for Relief
Societies—some of our good brethren even
would rather their wives would not attend,
think their only duty lies at home; but I
am sure we feel happier and better, and can
do more work and do it better, when we at-
tend our meetings. We can all do some-
thing to help; I am willing in my weak
way to do whatever I am called upon to
do."
	Mrs. Marinda Hyde: "I am pleased and
happy to see the progression of our sisters;
the work we are engaged in is true. I be-
longed to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.	*
I appreciate the teachings and suggestions
that we have heard here to-day; there are
many useful things we can impart to each
other, and we realize our efforts are not in
vain. I am thankful I have lived to see
this day, and I pray God to bless you all."
	Elder O. F. Whitney: "I feel rather lone-
some among so many ladies, the only one
of my sex here. I do not know what I
can say, but hope it will be a benefit to us
all. This is the second woman's congress I
have ever attended (if I may call this a
congress, and I think I may with propri-
ety); the first was in Cleveland, Ohio, last
year. I feel that there is a different spirit
here from what there was there, though the
speakers were ladies of education aud cul-
tivation, but the tendency was to sarcasm
and witticism, all reflecting upon the other
sex, and to create a laugh; but the spirit
here to-day inculcates peace, and will culti-
vate love and good feeling, and you have
had good counsel given to young ladies,
and I know the same will apply to the
young men. I know my mother's instruc-
tions to me have many times saved me
from doing wrong, but it was directed by
the Spirit of God. To educate children in
the right way is just as necessary as any-
thing we can do, and mothers have more
the responsibility of this than the fathers.
Every good man is interested in this work;
I feel you are doing a good work; you have
my faith and I pray God to bless you."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: "I would like the
Secretaries to send in their next Quarterly
reports a week before the Conference; send
them directed to the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT."
	It was then moved and seconded that
the Conference adjourn until Saturday,
Sept. 21st, at 10 o'clock a. m. at the same
place. Singing by the choir. Prayer by
Elder O. F. Whitney.
			E. HOWARD, Secretary.


Washing Colored Fabrics: Previous to wash-
ing calicoes and ginghams, soak them in water
with ox gall; the quantity, one tablespoonful to a
gallon of water. Vinegar in the rinsing water for
pink and green heightens the colors, and soda an-
swers the same purpose for purple and blue.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
OBEDIENCE TO PRINCIPLE.
Oh, may the Lord inspire our hearts.
Help us to yield to His decree;
His Spirit now to us impart,
That we obedient may be.

The time will come when we'll rejoice.
Though p'raps with sorrow now bowed down:
Oh, listen to the still, small voice,
The conqueror shall wear a crown.

Then surely, sisters, we'll not shrink
From what our Father says is pure;
Oh, let us now begin to think
How great our joy, if we endure.

If we are faithful, we shall stand
With those who've nobly borne the cross
If we oppose, we'll understand
To disobey will be our loss.

Then; sisters, let us lift our hearts
To God, who hears and answers prayer:
Call on His name, trust in His grace,
That we the victor's crown may wear.
							    EMMA MORRIS


TENNYSON'S HOPE OF THE FUTURE.

	"The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink
	Together, dwarfed or God-like, bond or free.
	If she be small, slight-natured, miserable,
	How shall men grow? But work no more alone,
	Let man be mo[-]e of woman, she of man;
	He gain in sweetness and in moral hight,
	Nor lose the wr[-]stling thews that throw the world;
	She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care,
	Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind;
	Till at the last she set herself to man,
	Like perfect music unto noble words;
	And so these twain, upon the skirts of time,
	Sit side by side, full-summed in all their powers,
	Dispensing har[-]ests, sowing the to-be.
	Self-reverent each and reverencing each.
	Distinct in individualities,
	But like each other, even as those who love,
	Then reign the world's great bridals chaste and calm;
	Then springs the crowning race of human kind.
	May these things be."
—Tennyson's "The Princess."
—SELECTED.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
				SCANDAL.

	I feel impressed to write a few words on
scandal, which I hope will not be amiss. It
seems to be prevalent among Saints, as
well as sinners, to speak evil of one another.
And the question arises in my mind, Why
is it so? Why do we take pleasure in cir-
culating evil reports about our fellow crea-
tures? Are we not so constituted as to be
able to enjoy life while we see others happy?
Does their happiness and good reputation
hinder us from enjoying the same blessing?
Why do we allow envy to rise and rule
over our better natures, and seek to destroy
the character of a brother or sister? If
they have weaknesses, are we free from
faults? Are we not the children of the
same Heavenly Father, and striving to
reach the same heaven, the same glory and
exaltation? Why do we seek continually
to pull down and destroy the works of our
Maker? Is it not more noble to build up,
and spread peace and joy, comfort and hap-
piness, and strengthen the hearts of those
around us? Are they not human, and sus-
ceptible of joy and sorrow? Why do we
not observe the commandments of our Sa-
vior, and put on charity as a mantle, and
extend it to our neighbors? The revela-
tions say, "Without charity our righteous-
ness will profit us nothing." Charity cov-
ereth a multitude of sins. And if the
Lord, being perfect, can forgive us, how
much more necessary is it for us to forgive
each other, and hear with each other's

[Column 2]
weaknessas. We should observe the "Gold-
en Rule" and do as we would like to be
done by. We have a promise that the
measure we mete out shall be measured
back to us again.
	We may try to fool ourselves into the be-
lief that evil is not in our hearts, and we
may succeed in making others believe the
same, because of our smooth way of work-
ing, but the effect is the same. We should
not smooth the brow with one hand and-
undermine with the other. People may
not understand the workings of both
hands, but God sees all and knows the in-
tents of the heart, and will repay us in his
own time. We may sail along with flying
colors for a time, and feel secure in our
course, but the promise is sure and we will
reap our reward.
	Then let us examine our hearts before it
is too late, and cast from our mind all jeal-
ousies and envious feelings, and seek to
build up, and not magnify the faults of
others, but speak the best of all; comfort
and console, and prove ourselves blessings
in very deed. In blessing others we bless
ourselves, and it is the only road to true
happiness.
	There are none of us so very happy and
independent that we can dispense with
each other's help and sympathy. How
much unhappiness has been caused by evil
speaking; how much suffering for the want
of charity; how much evil is wrought un-
der the cloak of friendship. An open,
avowed enemy is preferable to a smooth-
tongued, deceitful friend. The first cannot
do one-half the injury that the other can.
We might say, the Lord deliver us from
our professed friends, and we have not
much to fear from our enemies.
	Slander should be done away with among
those professing to be Saints. It is an evil
that few, if any, are exempt from. It cre-
ates prejudice, and I believe it causes more
trouble than anything else. It makes peo-
ple feel as though they were guilty, by
its powerful depressing influence, when
they are not. Now, I would exhort all to
cease, or put away this evil, and not con-
demn in others what we justify ourselves
in doing. Let us cultivate love towards each
other, and turn our attentions and abilities
in doing something useful, that we may
earn a blessing, instead of a cursing. It
may be necessary that offences come, "but
woe to them by whom they come." These
are the words of the Savior; let us beware.
	There is enough good work to be done
to keep all busy, and none need to infringe,
or crowd, upon another. Our motto should
be "live and let live." There should be
happiness enough for all. There is no need
of one's trying to monopolize—stepping on
somebody else in order to be the highest.
We can never build ourselves up on anoth-
er's ruin; it must be done on true worth or
not at all. Our Father in Heaven is just;
He is no respector of persons; one of His
children is just as precious in His eyes as
another, providing their works are as good.
The innocent will eventually triumph, and
the guilty be punished. These words
should sink deep into our hearts, for there
is much need of a reformation; more than
we are aware of. We know our own hearts
the least of any.					ENG.
	May 24, 1878.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	SAVOIA, NEW MEXICO, June 4, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: feeling that a few lines from
this [-]ar-off place might be of interest to

[Column 2]
you, or some of the many readers of the
EXPONENT, I take pleasure in sending
them, believing it to be the duty of every
sister in Zion to assist, by some means, in
the great Latter-day work. Our paper is
still read with great interest. It seems to
me I could not do without it now.
	It is three months yesterday since we ar-
rived at our new home. There are four
families from Utah and two from Arkansas
living here at present; and notwithstand-
ing we are separated from many of our
dear friends in Utah, we feel quite con-
tented, realizing that it is in the provi-
dences of a merciful God that we have
been called to build up the waste places of
Zion, and are in the enjoyment of peace
here in a wild Indian country. The
valley is a very pretty one; the hills
on all sides are covered with large and
grand old pines, while there are many
flowers to add still another charm, and ren-
der the scene more picturesque. I will not
attempt description farther, leaving it for
some one more capable. We have seen
but few Navajoes, compared with the hun-
dreds by whom we are surrounded. Those
that have called to see us appear kind, and
some have expressed a desire to come and
live near us. Until recently the Indians
have been afraid of us, as we have all had
smallpox—the disease having been brought
here by some emigrants early in the win-
ter. The malady, in nearly every case,
proved to be of a very mild type. For this
we also give thanks to our Heavenly Fath-
er. However, the past winter has been a
very trying time to some. The whole
family affected at once. If we are favored
with rain we will probably raise our bread
and quite a variety of vegetables. The
weather is beautiful, and the health of all
generally good. We miss so much our
good meetings with the sisters that we
have been used to. It would be such a
glorious treat to see the kind faces of some
of our dear sisters, and hear their wise
counsels once more; yet we must be pa-
tient and wait, though as some poet has
written, "The waiting time is the hardest
time of all."
	Dear Sister Wells, how grieved I was to
learn that Emma was dead, and even now
it does not seem possible I shall never see
her again on this earth. I knew and loved
her for myself; I can never forget her kind
face the last time we met—so full of sym-
pathy. It was last fall at the Ogden depot;
I was in the waiting room, stopping until
the train for Salt Lake City started. In
my arms was my poor baby almost dying.
In my sorrows I should not have noticed
her, had she not recognized me, and with
her usual kindness come to try and soothe
the poor little suffering one. He died in
the city, and now Emma has gone. You
had many dear ones and I only one, yet
their Heavenly Parent claimed both yours
and mine; and if the pure are all together,
there we know that they are happier than
while here. I have a dear mother gone
too, and I could not ask for two gentler be-
ings to watch over my little one than my
mother and your departed Emma. For-
give me for writing thus, I had not thought
to do so. We know in whom we trust, and
that we are living for the future more than
the present. May God bless and comfort
you and all who are tried in this life. Our
reward is sure.
		Yours with respect,
			MARY STUART BURNHAM.


PUNCH once said "Men and women have
died of dig[-]ity"—he meant false dignity.


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	In the United States and Great Britain, the
women of this people are a popular subject of
conversation. What is said of them would,
we are told, make volumes were it written.
Domsetic drudges, ignorant, low and vulgar, is
the verdict passed upon them as a body. They
have no opinions, they are not in possession of
intelligence, isolated and kept in subjection,
required to fulfill only menial relations even
in marriage; these and a thousand other ab-
surdities are palmed off upon those who are
uninformed on the subject and are accepted as
genuine truths. Occasionally some person or
persons, are wise enough to investigate for
themselves while visiting Utah and not be put
off with somebody's "say so." But these cases
are so rare comparatively, that the general
public are not much enlightened on the sub-
ject. Some self-evident facts are now under-
stood concerning this people; because the con-
dition of the country has established them; it
was formerly known as a desert, it is now full
of flourishing towns, this is apparent; with
schools, manufactures, churches, railroads and
all the facilities for cultivation and improve-
ment. The Latter-day Saints are known as
the pioneers and motive power in these great
changes. Is it consistent to suppose that men
have accomplished so much towards beautify
ing and improving a country associated with
women of inferior calibre? No! The mothers,
wives and daughters have been and are, co-
workers in all these infinite and arduous under
takings. They have labored incessantly in
the interests of their famili[-]s, to use an elevat-
ing and refining influence; and that which
would tend to peace and good will. To-day
they occupy a position of which they may
justly be proud, notwithstanding all the as-
persions cast upon them.
	To be sure their educational opportunities
in the past, and the advantages of "so called
polite society," have not been such as wo-
men of the world have enjoyed, but shut up in
their mountain home, free from the evil influ-
ences which prevail to an alarming extent in
more densely populated and older communi-
ties, they have developed other capabilities
and powers of mind that have given them
strength of character and personal attributes
calculated to raise them in the scale of intel-
lect and intelligence, beyond those who spend
so much time and devote their precious God-
given talents to the frivolities and accom-
plishments of fashionable life, which all tend
to weaken instead of strengthening character.
	The peculiar exigencies, and experiences of
Mormon life have had a tendency to make wo-
men self-helpful, and self-reliant, and have
given them indomitable energy, and undaunt-

[Column 2]
ed courage, and these characteris[-]i[-]s prepare
them to use more discreetly any trust or confi-
dence reposed in them. They are fully aware
that any antagonism or defiance towards men,
would hinder instead of helping them, that
both must co-operate together for the mutual
benefit of all, for "woman is not without
man nor man without woman in the Lord,"
and they are engaged in the Lord's work. The
men of this community were anxious woman
should have the "franchise" believing it to be
just and right that she should have every op-
portunity to represent her own cause. The
many responsibilities placed upon the sisters of
this Church should awaken them to the neces-
sity of becoming conversant with the subject
of laws, governments, and the history of na-
tions past and present, in order that they may
use the ballot judiciously, and vote under-
standingly, as well as to maintain other privi-
liges and rights which they enjoy. One can
not be too well informed in regard to the laws
of nations and the relations of countries. No
woman should content herself with a simple
assertion from another, and feel she has no
time to read, or study and inform herself, or at-
tend the meetings held among the sisters for
general instruction. By prudently economiz-
ing time, every woman in the enjoyment of
average health, whatever her domestic cares
may be, can find some time for personal
culture, and it will promote health and happi-
ness both. A better knowledge of one's self,
of the relations of individuals to each other,
and their duty to God, with fervent faith in
His holy Gospel, will fit man and woman for
the truest enjoyment These attainments can
never be reached by sitting idly down and
waiting, they demand diligent and constant
action, and a rightful exercise of all the facul-
ties of one's nature.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN THE issue of EXPONENT June 1st, the re-
port of sericulture at Rockville should have
stated five ounces of silk worm [-]ggs instead of
dozen and instead of silk-worms for sale, it
should read silk worm eggs.

	LETTERS, ESSAYS, Relief Society Reports,
and other items laid over until another is[-]ue.
The Qua[-]erly Conference occupies considera-
ble space but we feel that it is [-]ssential to be
particular in publishing these minutes for the
benefit of the country societies.

	MOST OF the Sunday Schools of the different
wards in the city have been recreating and rus-
ticating in the rural gardens in the vicinity, of
late, giving the children a fine opportunity for
a day's pleasure in the open air, with a variety
of amusements to add to their enjoyment.

	IN COMPANY with Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
S. M. Heywood and Mrs. B. W. Smith, we vis-
ited the Relief Society at Mill Creek, and Su-
gar House Ward on Tuesday June 25th. Ex-
cellent meetings at both places with a full at-
tendance of men as well as women. The sis-
ters are [-]ec[-]ming more and more alive to the
exigencies of the times and encouraging home
indus[-]ries, storing gr[-]in and all good works.

	THE ROYAL Baker, a pamphlet compiled by
the New York Cooking School, will give you
directions for making every variety of b[-]ead,
griddle cakes, puffs, muffins, waf[-]les, tea-bis-
cuits, buns, crackers, toasts, pastry, pies and
puddings, dumplings, fritters and pancakes,
meat pies etc; it contains 304 recipes how to
make the different kinds of ar[-]icles mentioned.
It would be valuable to housekeepers as refer-
ence.—Price 10 cts.

[Column 2]
	THE TABERNACLE Choir will give a con-
cert in the Tabernacle on the Fourth of July,
under the supervision of Mr. Careless, leader of
the Choir, whose well known talent for direct-
ing and arranging will give it popularity. Mrs.
L. Careless, Miss S. E. Olsen, Messrs. B. B.
Young, Mark Croxall, J. J. Daynes and other
vocal and instrumental performers will take
part in the performance. The proceeds are to 
be donated towards the building of the N[-]w
Tabernacle.

	MISS DORAH H. Byron, of London, England,
a lady traveling for pleasure, made us a s[-]ci[-]l
call on Monday June 24, to see and hear some-
thing of Mormons and Mormonism. Miss By-
ron has been making a tour of the United
States and Canada, has heard much said
against our people, especially the condition of
our women; she evidently intends to see a[-]d
hear for herself. She is interested in the wo-
man's movement, and expresses herself as [-]e-
ing astonished to see so much good being
done by Mormon women.

	ELDER J. F. WELLS, Pres't. of the Central
Committee of the Y. M. M. I. A., and Elder
M. H. Hardy, his Counselor, are about to start
on a tour into the country in the interest of
the young peoples' As[-]ociations. They will in-
terest themselves specially in seeking to ad-
vance the spiritual and educational interests of
the territory. They will visit Morgan, Sum-
mit, Rich and Bear Lake Counties, returning
by way of Cache, Box Elder, Weber and Davis
Counties, making it a point to meet with all
the As[-]ocia[-]ions wherever practicable. God
speed and bless them in their efforts for culture
and higher development among the young
p[-]ople.

	ON MONDAY, at 12 o'clock, June 10, we went
in company with Miss E. R Snow, to the
United States Court-room, with Sister Annie
Musser who desired to procure her s[-]cond nat-
uralization papers. We found it to be a very
easy matter to accomplish, and nothing un-
pleasant whatever connected with it, and
would adv[-]se all, the sisters who have not yet
become citizens to make no delay whatever, and
"go and do likewise." There are many good
and s[-]fficient reasons why women should be-
come naturalized as well as men, and our sis-
ters should comprehend it. To all the sisters
who have not do[-]e so we would urge upon
them the propriety of attending to it while
there is so good an opportunity.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D.
Young are making a tour in the interest of the 
Relief S[-]c[-]eties and Retrenchment Associations
through portions of Utah, Juab and Sanpete
Counties. They left Salt Lake City on Mon-
day morning June 17, held a meeting at Amer-
ican Fork at 2 o'clock p. m. the same day, and 
again in the evening, at Pleasant G[-]ove on
Tuesday, at Mona on Wednesday, at Nephi on
Thursday, and from thence proceeded to Foun-
tain Green in Sanpete Co. The meetings at
all points were numerously attended and much
interest awakened on the subjects of home-in-
du[-]tries, especially seri-culture, also storing
grain, and other departments of labor among
the sisters.

	SISTER VIENNA Jaques who resides in the
12th Ward of this city, and whose name is
mentioned in one of the revelations in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, was ninety-
one years old on Monday June 10. The next
day she accompanied the Old Folks Excursion
to Ogden. She is in excellent health and feel-
as if she might yet live many years. She
lives entirely alone, never having had any


[Column 1]

family, does all her own housework, including
washing, ironing and cooking, writes many
letters, and does a great deal of reading. Sis-
ter Vienna is very familiar with the Scritpures.
This last Spring she has made sixty-one
pounds of butter, and milked her own cow.
Vienna Jaques was born at Beverly, Mass.,
but resided in Boston when she received the
Gospel. She went up to Kirtland in 1831,
stayed six weeks, and was baptized while
there, she sent money up to Mo. to buy land
at that time. She returned home to Boston,
settled up her business, and went back to
Kirtland to unite her interests forever with
the Church. She was in Missouri, and Nau-
voo, and has shared in many of the persecu-
tions of the saints. She was formerly a Metho-
dist and had received what they term sanctifi-
cation previous to embracing Mormonism. She
is strong and full of faith in the principles of
the Gospel.
	THE FIFTEENTH Ward Relief Society gave
a Strawberry Festival on Friday evening June
21, which was a very pleasant affair. It was a
social reunion of the officers and members with
their husbands, brothers, fathers and the Bish-
op of the Ward. We were present by invita-
tion. It was conducted in a very pleasing
manner by Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President of
the Society, and her assistants in office. The
company were regaled with delicious straw-
berries and cream-cake and lemonade. The
party met in the upper room of the Relief So-
ciety Hall, the lower part of which is occupied
by the Ward Store, rented for the benefit of
the Society. There are also two adjoining
rooms in the building in which they have
opened a Commission Store, and hope to secure
sufficient patronage to make it a success. They
have a great variety of fancy articles made by
the ladies of the Ward, ladies under-clothing,
childrens clothing, etc. The object is to fur-
nish employment for some of the poor sisters
and also be able to do something remunera-
tive to aid the Society in the way of funds.
Under the able and efficient management of
the President, the Society have accomplished
the building of a substantial rock granary in
which they have some grain stored, and a
good prospect for more the coming season.
The entertainment was an informal one, most-
ly devoted to conversation, a few speeches and
songs helped to make a variety. Closed with
prayer about 2 o'clock, and the company dis-
persed. Such social meetings will promote a
general good feeling and no doubt be of mutu-
al benefit. 
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall, closed for the Summer vacation
Thursday afternoon, June 20, with a variety of
exercises by the pupils in form of an entertain-
ment. Quite a number of visitors were pres-
ent; songs, music, recitations and dialogues,
filled up the programme. The children ren-
dered their several parts very creditably. Presi
dent John Taylor was present and made some
appropriate remarks, expressing his pleasure at
seeing the desire for improvement which was
apparent; congratulated Miss Cook on the suc-
cess she had achieved, and alluded in general
terms to the education of the young people of
Utah, the cultivation of their manners and
all that tends to refinement and progression.
We were pleased to see among the visitors
Apostles Wilford Woodruff, Daniel H. Wells,
Joseph F. Smith, also Elder O. F. Riggs and
Bishop George Dunford. It is always gratifying
to both teachers and students to see an interest
manifested in their endeavors to obtain knowl-
edge, and children need encouragement in the

[Column 2]

pursuit of learning as well as in other labors.
The Latter-day Saints desire to see their child-
ren stand high in morality and education, and
to be intelligently so, great care must be ta-
ken in their early training. Many people are
too careless of the discipline of their children
and entrust them to teachers who are not qual-
ified spiritually to exercise the highest influ-
ence over them for good. It is essential that par-
ents should be wise in this matter for the fu-
ture good of Israel. Miss Cook has certainly
done a noble work during her residence in
Utah, in the interest of education: she is thor-
ough in her system and has prepared many
young ladies well for practical work as teach-
ers, giving several an opportunity to assist her,
and thus having the benefit of her supervis-
ion and suggestions, to fit them better for oth-
er spheres of labor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		21


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	LYDIA PARTRIDGE, widow of Edward Part-
ridge, died on the 9th of June at 7, p. m., at
Oak City, Millard Co., and was buried at Fill-
more on the 11th. She was the daughter of
Joseph Clisbee and Merriam Howe, and was
born at Marlboro, Middlesex County, Mass., on
the 26th of Sept. 1793. Her mother dying
when she was about twenty-two years of age,
the family was broken up, she with one broth-
er and sister went to Ohio, where she became
acquainted with and was subsequently mar-
ried to Edward Partridge in the year 1819, who
was a batter by trade and carried on quite a
successful business at Painsville. They were
believers in the doctrine taught by Alexander
Campbell, and were identified with an organ-
ization raised up by Sidney Rigdon; at that
time they were in prosperous circumstances.
She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter day Saints, by Parley P. Pratt
in 1830, and her husband being called by reve-
lation to be a Bishop and locate in Jackson
County, Mo., Sister Partridge was left alone
with the care of a large family of small
children, and afterward performed the
journey with her children, which, to her,
in those days without the protecting care
of her husband, was a heroic under-
taking. The Bishop was required to devote
himself to the duties of his office, and his
property being used up, they were brought in-
to straightened circumstances. Through the
persecutions of Missouri, Sister Partridge was
compelled to make the journey to Nauvoo,
with her children without her husband. To
repeat the scenes passed through, the priva-
tions endured during their residence in Mis-
souri, and the exodus therefrom, would be un-
necessary as they have become matters of his-
tory. In Nauvoo Bishop Partridge died, and
there she also buried a daughter. Sometime
after she was married to Father William Hunt-
ingdon, whose wife had also died in Nauvoo.
They left Nauvoo with the first companies in
the exodus in Feb., 1846 crossing the river on
the ice with teams and wagons. At Mount
Pisg[-]h, on the route West, Father Hunting-
don was appointed to preside over those who
stayed there to raise a crop, and come on the
next season, but he was taken sick and died.
In the Spring of 1847, Mother Partridge and 
family, moved to Winter Quarters on the Mis-
souri river, and afterwards came to Salt Lake
Valley with Pres. Brigham Young's company,
in 1848.
	"Although their property was sacrificed in
becoming identified with the "Mormons," and
her husband had labored for the people and
had worn himself out in the cause, yet Moth-

[Column 2]
er Partridge was always loth to ask for assist-
ance, and labored diligently to support herself
and family, and was always found earning
something. She was exemplary in her daily
life, and was never known to be aught else
than a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, and
it is not known that she had a personal enemy.
In disposition she was quiet and unassuming,
and her good works were performed without
ostentation, but from an innate love of the
right, and the natural kindness of her heart.
Having been identified with the Church al-
most from the commencement, she was inti-
mately acquainted with a great many of the
Latter-day Saints who will ever think of her
with kindly and pleasing remembrance."
	Mother Partridge leaves a great number of
children, grand-children and some great grand-
children. Her only living son Edward Part-
ridge, is well known in this Church. He re-
sides at Fillmore and is First Counselor to the
President of Millard Stake. Sister Partridge
was one of the oldest members in the Church,
a veteran indeed, who has fought valiantly in
the interests of the kingdom of God, and she
has now gone to join the hosts of the saints
behind the veil, to rest from earthly toil and
pain, and enter upon another sphere of useful-
ness.

	ONE OF the saddest and most distressing oc-
currences which have ever transpired in this
Territory, took place Saturday last, June 22, in
Sanpete Co. A party of young folks and child-
ren went out upon a small lake not far from
Manti, in a boat. About one o'clock a terri-
ble gale swept over the lake, the party were
frightened, and rushed to the bow sinking and
capsizing the boat. Five from Ephraim and
six from Mayfield were drowned, only two
were saved clinging to the boat. It is said the
greatest exertions were made to save the par-
ties from drowning, men going out into the
water at the risk of their own lives. Names of
the drowned, as published in the Deseret
News.
	Oliver Oviatt, aged 22; Rosa Bella (his wife),
aged 16; Miss Nora Neilson, aged 9 years; Mas-
ter Jenson, son of Henry Jensen, aged 8; Miss
Williams, daughter of Jno. Williams, aged
10 years; Miss Stevens, daughter of Joseph
Stevens, aged 10 years, all of Mayfield.
	OF Ephraim.—Chas. Christiansen, aged 19;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Lars Anderson,
aged 16; Miss Bella Thompson, aged 11 years;
Miss Anderson, daughter of Je[-]s Anderson,
aged 11; Master Larsen, aged 9 years.


OBITUARIES.

						April 19th, 1878.
	MRS. MARY Annie Harris Bowen, the be-
loved wife of Bro. Lewis Bowen, aged sixty-
five years. She was baptized in the Abersy-
chan branch of the Herefordshire Conference
in 1853, and emigrated to Utah in 18[--]. She
was the mother of twelve children, seven of
whom are living, six sons, and one daughter.
The home of Bro. Bowen in Wales. was ever
open to the Elders on missions, and in add-
tion to the care of a large family, Sister Bow-
en took great pleasure in administering to their
wants for the Gospel's sake. Her faith was
firm in this Latter-day work; she bore her
sickness with great calmness and serenity, and
fell asleep in the full hope of a glorious resur-
rection.							COM.

		KAYSVILLE, DAVIS CO. June 16, 1878.
	LYDIA WADE, the youngest daughter of
Robert and Emma Victoria Wade, died on
Sunday June 16th aged four months and nine-
teen days, the family was formerly from York.
[-]bire, England.—Millennial Star please copy.


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

				KANOSH, May 21st, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I believe the organization of the Y. L.
M. I. A. has never been published in your
interesting paper, and not wishing to be
more backward in a good cause than our
sisters in the neighboring settlements, I
will endeavor to give a correct report of
the organization of our Association, which
was effected Jan. 2nd, 1878, according to
the instructions previously given by Mrs.
Zina D. Young. A meeting was called by
the President of the Relief Society, Adelia
Kimball, several members of the society
were present, also Bishop King L. Leavitt,
G. R. Hakes, and several others of the
brethren who attended by invitation.
	The officers of the Improvement Associa-
tion were accepted as such by a unani-
mous vote of those present, and ordained
and set apart to fill their positions as fol-
lows:

	Emily A. Crane, President,
	Florence D. Leavitt,	}
	Alice Rappleye,		}
	Ann E. Leavitt,		}	Counselors.
	Mary Jane Abraham,	}
	Dianah Radford		}
	Jane Whatcott		}

	Arletta Hopkins,	} Secretaries.
	Thirza Lee,		}
	Salina Gay, Treasurer,
	Emily Barney, Superintendent.

	We publish a paper called the "Echo of
Union," our meetings are interesting and
well attended; we have certainly derived
much good therefrom, and there is a feel-
ing of love and unity among the young sis-
ters that was never experienced before the
existence of our Association, and we feel
to bless the happy day of its organization.
	Praying God to crown all our good de-
signs abundantly with success, I am your
sister,
					EMILY A. CRANE.

		FRANKLIN CITY, May 20, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Some time has elapsed since the readers
of your esteemed paper have heard from
this place. We are trying to do what we
can to build up Zion. We have had a very
pleasant visit from Sisters Eliza R. Sonw
and E. Davis. It is the first time that Sis-
ter Eliza ever came to this place, and we
feel thankful for the good instructions she
gave us. We held two meetings while
they were here, one with the Relief So-
ciety, and one with the young ladies in the
evening.
	Wishing the EXPONENT success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel,
								S. M.

			TOQUERVILLE, May, 29, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking a few lines from our Y. L. M.
I. Association would be interesting to your
many readers, I venture a brief report; we
have thirty-six members enrolled, and have
a very good attendance; we meet weekly;
semi-monthly for working, and semi-
monthly for instruction, and edit a paper
entitled "The Young Ladies' Advocate."
Our former President was called away to
Arizona, and Mrs. Sarah Ann Spilsbury
was appointed as President. We held our
annual meeting April 18th and after the
usual exercises the report for the last year

[Column 2]
was read, showing creditable marks of in-
dustry. We quilted a quilt and prepared
some straw for braiding, and made a
couple of tidies, and had a picnic during
the day, and at night gave a ball for the
benefit of the Association; the evening was
a most enjoyable one, the time was spent in
dancing and a dialogue was recited by
fourteen of the young ladies, we also had
singing. We have a quantity of straw and
purpose making all our own hats this sea-
son, and also various kinds of embroidery.
We, in unison with the daughters of Zion,
take sincere pleasure in reading the EXPO-
NENT, and gratefully acknowledge the ben-
efit we derive from its pages. May success
attend its efforts to advance the cause of
righteousness, is the desire of your sisters.
		SARAH ANN SPILSBURY, Pres't.
		ELIZABETH M. KLIENMAN, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I must send you a few lines about our so-
cieties as there has been no report of late.
Our Relief Society is in a flourishing con-
dition, a good spirit prevails, and our breth-
ren take quite an interest in our welfare,
visiting our meetings each month. Money
is scarce at this place, but we do the best
we can under the circumstances. The
young ladies' Association is also in a good
condition; they meet with the young men's
Society every Sunday evening at 5 o'clock,
and take turns in presiding; many of the
elderly brethren and sisters also meet with
them. I think these societies are the best
institutions that could be established for
the improvement of both young and old; I
myself am very much intere[-]ted in them.
Everything is looking splendid in Tooele,
we have had such beautiful rains. If things
turn out as the present prospects indicate,
we will have an abundant harvest this sea-
son; and I hope we will be able to lay up
more wheat in the granary than we did last
year. Our President has been reminding
the sisters that election day is drawing
near and to be prepared for the same. The
EXPONENT is a welcome messenger to all
who take it.
	May God bless us in all our efforts in do-
ing good, is the prayer of your humble sis-
ter,
						ANN TATE.

		WEST PORTAGE, May 16, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Feeling interested in the work the so-
cieties are doing to assist in the establish-
ment of the kingdom of God, I venture to
write you a brief report of our progress in
this part of the Lord's vineyard. Our So-
ciety have done a little towards carrying
out the counsel of our departed President
Brigham Young. We have in store about
twenty bushels of wheat, notwithstanding
the destructive proclivities of the grass-
hoppers in taking our entire crop of which
our depleted granaries bear evidence. But
we hope through the blessing of God to be
more successful this season as we have a
brighter prospect for raising grain, and the
sisters mean to prove their faith by their
work in the harvest field.
	On Saturday, May 4th, our beloved Sis-
ter E. R. Snow, and E. Davis, held three
meetings with us. At 10, a. m., Sister
Snow spoke on the practical duties of our
holy religion, by sustaining home-indus-
tries, seri-culture, etc. Mrs. Davis testified
to the truth of Miss Snow's remarks and
encouraged the Saints to sustain the EXPO-
NENT, and all Church works which would

[Column 3]
prove a lasting benefit to them. At 2
o'clock, p. m., Miss Snow addressed the Y.
L. M. I. Association on the necessity of
spiritual instruction to obtain a correct idea
of our Father and God, and their responsi-
bilities, teach them to become good house-
keepers, and such home instructions as are
suitable for the young to learn. Mrs. Davis
said she perceived by the minutes which
were read that the young sisters had made
great improvement since their organiza-
tion. At 7 o'clock, p. m. the sisters ad-
dressed the Young Mens and Young La-
dies Associations on the subject of Celes-
tial Marriage, moral and spiritual culture,
and refinement necessary for the society of
holy beings.
	On Tuesday evening, they held another
meeting; an attentive audience listened to
Miss Snow's touching appeal to live pure
and virtuous lives; a great portion of the
Holy Spirit rested upon both speaker and
hearers, and the instruction was replete
with counsel and blessings to the Saints,
and a warning to the lukewarm.
			LUCINDA HOSKINS, Pres't.
			JANET HEATON, Sec'y.

		SOUTH JORDAN, May 22nd, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters in this ward feel desirous to
do all in their power for the furtherance of
this great and glorious work, and in carry-
ing out the instructions of our late beloved
President in storing grain. We have on
hand one hundred bushels of wheat, one
hundred and thirty-six head of sheep, and
two shares in the West Jordan Woolen fac-
tory. We are trying to do all we can to
build Temples and to build up the kingdom
of God. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly when the teachers give in their
reports; these meetings are well attended,
and the members seem desirous to do all
the good they can; we desire to improve
our talents and prepare ourselves for use-
fulness in obedience to the commandments
of God, for the building up of his kingdom,
and promoting the welfare of Zion.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
which we consider a blessing to all the sis-
ters of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, we remain your sisters in
the Gospel.

		Ann Holt, President,
		Emily G. Beckstead,	}	Counselors.
		Emeline Bills,		}
		Susan A. Blake, Secretary,
		Ellen Vincent, Treasurer.
	Report of the financial condition of the
Payson Relief Society, May 29, 1878.
Total amount received since last
	report....................................$227 45 ½
Disbursed since last report........  167 34
The Society owns property as follows:
One city lot, improved................$125 00
Six city lots, less improved.........   280 00
One share in Parent Co op Store 250 00
One share in Dairy Association..    34 72
One share in Branch Co-op.........   41 15
Cash...............................................    12 60
Miscellaneous Property............... 142 77
134 bushels of Wheat.................. 100 50
	work entitled "Women of Mor-
	mondon"................................   20 00
							   ———
			Total			   781 74
				M. A. HARDY, Secretary.


EAST BOUNTIFUL, May 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciation was re-organized February 19, 1878,
by Bishop Chester Call and his counsel,
Mrs. Elizabeth H. Barlow, President of the
Relief Society, and her counselors; officers
as follows:
	Nancy Willey, President.
	Jane Holt, Vice President,
	Mary A. Call,
	Eliza Dalrymple,
	Regina Stoker,		Counselors,
	Sarah C. Sessions,
	Mary Willey,
	Jane A. Hale,
	Alice J. Call, Secretary,
	Huldah Stoddard, Assistant Secretary,
	Mary Woolstenholme, Treasurer.
	The Society numbers seventy-two mem-
bers, including officers. Meetings are held
every two weeks; the exercises consist of
lectures and readings from the Church
works, and testimonies. We have a maga-
zine, entitled "The Young Ladies' Com-
panion," which is issued monthly. We
are striving to do our best in this great
and glorious work in which we are engaged;
hoping that we may continue faithful to
the end, I remain,
	Yours very respectfully,
		ALICE JEANNETTE CALL,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN AND HER OPPORTUNITIES.

    An hours' reading each day in some use-
ful book, helps prepare a woman for future
works and lifts her out of a daily routine of
housework, where there is a family to be
attended to.  It is time to rise above the
pressure and hurry of a life of drudgery,
time for woman to show more self-reliance,
time to break away from false customs that
are destroying true womanhood.  To be
able to comprehend largely and see things
in their true sense is one of the results of
education. Self-culture is necessary for our
improvement; it teaches us to know more
of ourselves, ahd thus to know more of
others. There are many ways in which a
woman can develop the powers which the
Father has endowed her with.  It has been
truly said, "educate the mother and you
will elevate the children."  There is a vast
field of labor for woman; her capabilities
were not given her to lie dormant, but to 
be employed in acquiring knowledge and
becoming cultivated.  A true lady will re-
gard the rights and feelings of others, and
it is no mark of a lady or gentleman to be
uncouth or indifferent to another's feelings
or welfare; politeness ought to be made a
habit.  Mothers should set examples of
this before their children; it is vain to look
for a noble character without some cultiva-
tion; and the foundation should be laid in
early life. 
	There is no branch of education that wo-
man may not undertake, but all should be
taught the benefit of personal dignity, and
the need and utility of adapting them-
selves to the circumstances in which they
are placed.  Seek to show yourselves true
to the nature you possess, and sphere you
occupy, disciplined by culture and subject
to principle; these things are essential to
the highest glory of womanhood.  There
has been a great deal said about womens
rights, it is a subject that I feel interested
in, although I disagree with some of those
public lectures, and lecturers, yet there are
those who are inspired with a true desire
to elevate woman to a higher sphere, not by
destroying men's influence, but helping to
do what men have failed to see for the ad:
vantage of humanity.  Women may enter-
tain some ideas that may not be wholly
consistent, but let woman labor in her
sphere and not strive to do that which is
not appointed her to do.
 What are our future lives to be?  Just
what we qualify ourselves for.  The inter-
ests of any community would, I firmly be-
lieve, profit by the "franchise" being ex-
tended to women; every woman should es-
teem it a privilege and a duty to vote.
Women should have a good general educa-
tion which will give them an understand-
ing of the government of their country and
the right of suffrage.  If women were al-
lowed more of these privileges, they would
materially benefit society.  Men are calcu-
lated to lead out, and for this reason should
have sympathy for woman, instead of
crushing the germ implanted in her mind
by the Author of her being, for a noble
purpose.  Then why seek to rob woman
of the privilege assigned her in her crea-
tion,to be a helpmeet?  Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother in all
questions of interest.  Women often take
shelter in their weakness, and believe it is
right; whereas, if woman knew herself, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for.  She controls, or ought to,
the elements of life, the germ of future
glory.  Shall we not urge woman to real-
ize her responsibility and influence, in the
manner natural to her nature?
We are pleased to note the growing de-
sire of women to live for something high-
er than daily drudgery, and the common
concerns of mere earthly existence.  God
has designed her to share with man the
glories of an exaltation.  The position she
occupies, if properly filled, is just as honor-
able as his; she cannot fill his place, he
cannot fulfill the duties which belong to
hers, therefore, there is no need of any-
quarrel as to who is the greatest.
MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, June 14, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S ADVANCEMENT.

	From time immemorial woman has, to a
certain extent, been either the slave or pet
of men. Now some noble spirits are step-
ping on the platform of life, bearing free-
dom to women. Their strong desires and
fixed purposes are brought to bear on the
minds of their fellow-sisters; the noble
powers of woman, which have so long lain
dormant, are now awaking to new life, and
universally, almost, women realize they
are not slaves, or toys, but something no-
bler and better. The true woman is gentle
and refined, having those finer qualities
not so generally found among men. Yet
her intellect is as great, her aspirations as
lofty; she can amuse herself with the
frolics of children, or, if need be, she is
capable of governing nations. From the
same chaotic matter of which the Lord
formed man made He woman also, and as
he may be priest and king, she eventu-
ally may also be queen and priestess. The
curse is being removed from woman; man
will not long be permitted to wield an iron
sceptre over her, but will understand her
right position as companion and counselor.
Nowhere are women as a class treated with
the respect and equality that they are
among the Latter-day Saints. Here they
are the honored wives of good and intelli-
gent men, having no doubts of their hus-

[Column 2]

band's fidelity. Not so elsewhere, for as
pagan Greece had her educated COURTE-
SANS, who were publicly the favorites of
philosophers and statesmen, while the
wives and mothers were often but household
drudges, so in modern Christian nations
many of the wives and mothers are almost
ignored, while their husbands spend time
and money with the "Demimonde."
	Yet the great cry is these Mormon prac-
tice plurality of wives! Oh, how horrible!
Their women are honorable wives and
their children are legitimate. Oh, what a
dreadful state of society! Congress should
look into these matters they think; sensa-
tional newspapers are at work, and they
would have armies sent here to clear this
great social evil (plural marriage) from the 
face of the earth. These Mormons, say they
are a civil, industrious people, we would
like to live among them; they have built
up a flourishing Territory, but their morals
are so corrupt. Why do they not pattern
after us? we have only one wife. But they
do not tell what secret practices exist among
them, these are fashionable follies, and
respectable people have these small vices.
	Women have shown great executive
talent in all the departments of life. They
have governed nations as royally as kings.
They are the queens of song, and the mimic
stage, and the ministering angels to man-
kind. Men will yet learn of woman's ca-
pabilities, and that women have souls
which will shine forth in such brilliancy as
to enlighten their understanding, and cause
them to acknowledge women their equals.
	The lords of creation sneer at strong-
minded, intelligent women; they say they
lose that simplicity and modesty so attrac-
tive to man. But if you speak of marriage
to these wise beings, they shake their
heads, heave a sigh, and from their appear-
ance one would suppose they were about to
be involved in some great misfortune. They
will tell you they really cannot afford it,
the girls are so extravagant, they are such
frivolous and senseless creatures, not at all
like their grandmothers. True, many of
the young ladies are what are defined as
frivolous and senseless to a certain ex-
tent, and they are so because frivolous and
senseless men have formed the customs of
society and the laws that govern the world.
Let the mothers of Israel tell their daugh-
ters that they are designed fer a nobler pur-
pose than to be the mere pet, or drudge, of
any man. Place before them incentives to
become what women should be—intelligent,
refined, and capable beings. Teach them
to become true daughters, wives and moth-
ers in the noblest sense. That to be the
wife of an intelligent, worthy man, no
matter how many responsibilities he has
already assumed, is better than to be the
one wife of a licentious, non-believing mo-
nogamist The man that is worthy of the
name is the noblest of God's creation, the
head and chief, and by his side stands the
woman as his companion and counselor,
neither being perfect without the other.
	Such are those that carry the stamp of
nobility; those who have risked lives and
property to benefit their fellow-creatures,
those who respect and honor women; but
they are the few and not the many. Be-
fore the "franchise" was given to the wo-
men of Utah, the great cry was the bond-
age of the "Mormon" women. "Please,
Mr. Senator, can you not do something for
these poor, pale-faced, abused creatures?
Look into these matters, and free these de-
spised women from the hands of their per-
secutors." Now that the world know that
the bondage of the "Mormon" women is a


farce, the cry is, "Away with the franchise;
it gives these Mormon men too much pow-
er. Why some of them have a dozen
wives! Oh, what will become of the poor
innocent Gentiles in Utah?" Shall we,
then, allow ourselves to be disfranchised be-
cause some sleepy Senator refuses to listen
to the truth? Not silently; let the "Mor-
mon" women exert their utmost ingenuity
in their own defense; help those noble souls,
by faith and prayers earnest and fervent,
that are devoting time and energies to the
redemption of women. Let the power of
your wills be so strong that it will overrule
that unappreciative element of women's
rights in the National Congress, that when
the question is again discussed their con-
tortions may be something more than a
grin.
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	As a Society we are decidedly in a pros-
perous condition; we are increasing in faith
and confidence in each other and in the
Lord, for we know that He is at the helm
and not only hears, but also answers the
prayers of His children. We have proved
this of a surety, in thousands of instances:
during the past quarter two of our sisters
whose names have been enrolled since the
first, of our organization, have departed this
life, their labors are ended here, and they
are removed to a higher life of usefulness
and progression. When we think upon the
precious promises that belong to the faith-
ful, how necessary that we should strive
diligently while it is called day, that we
may secure enteral salvation.
	With kind love to yourself and the sis-
ters, we remain yours in the Covenant,
			MARY MEIKLEJOHN, Pres't.
			EMILY WARBURTON, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Good[-], knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
[-]econd South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also disease[-] of the throat and L[-]ngs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her sto[-]k of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Bu[-]ldings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the [-]3th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]rative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special [-]tudy has been given to Ob[-]terics, diseases of
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1878.  No. 4.


For the EXPONENT.
MIDSUMMER.
Tis midsummer time, and the new-mown hay,
Lies fresh in the meadows over the way,
The breath of the cowslips and clover bloom,
With the summer-hay yield a sweet perfume;
And it wafts us back to the by-gone days,
And memory's music around us plays;
And we e'en forget, we are growing old,
As the past with its joyous scenes unfold.

There's the girls and the boys as they us'd to be
Chatting and sporting in their youthful glee,
The meadows resound with the merry shout,
Of their voices, so clearly ringing out
In laughter, and song as they rake the hay,
In the sunshine bright, on a July day;
And the broad fields are of their beauty shorn,
And off to the barns the hay-loads are borne.

How many summers, are over and gone,
How many dear ones, and bright hopes have flown;
How oft the flowers have blossom'd and died,
Since in midsummer time a happy bride
Left her home and friends, and was borne away,
Just when the meadows were teeming with hay;
The roses and daisies their bloom had shed,
But Juniper berries were ripe and red.

And the humming-bird's nest swung in the breeze,
From the verdant boughs of the Juniper trees:
And the happy lovers gazed on the nest
And thought of the home they'd make in the West;
As perfect and charming the home-nest should be
As the tiny thing swinging there from the tree.
Alas! for the bird, the nest, and the mate,
Left alone, to suffer a cruel fate.

And when midsummer ev'ry year returns,
The bird for its mate instinctively yearns;
But the Juniper tree, and the open door,
Are standing there now, as they did of yore,
And the sunshine floods in amber and gold,
The forests and meadows, just as of old,
But we look in vain for a simple token
Of the lovers vows, that there were spoken.
EMILE.
S. L. City, July 13, 1878.    E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

ADDRESS TO Y. L. M. I. A.

	We are now called a Mutual Improve-
ment Association; this name should be car-
ried out in our daily walk and conversation,
and we should show by our works what
we profess to be. Let us spend our time
in usefulness, in something that will refine
and elevate, so that we may be bright and
shining lights in the church and kingdom
of God, and that our names may be held in
honorable remembrance for generations to
come. Let us take care of the minutes and
the hours will take care of themselves; but
how many minutes we let pass by unim-
proved, not thinking that we will some day
have to give an account of every minute
that we lose. We are placed here on earth
to work for an eternal inheritance and then
return to God from whence we came and
dwell with Him throughout endless eterni-
ties. My young sisters is not this enough
to spur us up to our duties and inspire us to
improve the talents God has given us?
Can we assist to build up Zion by sitting
down and folding our hands? No, we must
arouse ourselves and put on the "armor of
faith" for without it we can do nothing; we
can do more towards rolling on this work
than we realize, we can assist in building
Temples to the Most High, we can also use
our influence for good at all times and sus-
tain those who are placed over us with our
faith and prayers; we can uphold every

[Column 2]

principle of our religion and not allow our-
selves to speak lightly of anything that God
has revealed, for in so doing we grieve the
Spirit of God and it will be withdrawn from
us, then we will be left to grope our way in
the dark; we can also assist in binding the
power of Satan by uniting ourselves togeth-
er, and overcoming all things that are not
pleasing in the sight of God. My young
sisters let us appreciate the privileges we
have, and thank God that our spirits have
been reserved to come forth in this day and
dispensation, when the gospel has been
brought in its fulness never more to be tak-
en from the earth; and that we have been
made recipients of the same. When we
look around and see our brothers and sisters
relatives and friends that have not been
favored of God as we have, it makes our
hearts ache, and wish that we could do
something to bring them to a knowledge
of the truth, but God's ways are not our
ways, and with him all things are possible.
How earnest, we should be in living our re-
ligion, and putting away everything that
will retard our progress in this great work.
Girls let our aim be noble and our thoughts
pure, and our thoughts be drawn out to
God at all times, that he will keep us from
dangers seen or unseen, and that we may
have strength to resist the Tempter's pow-
er, for it is strong if we are not guarded
against it; we cannot depend on our own
strength for it is frail, "let him that stand-
eth take heed lest he fall. This shows us
that we must put our dependence in God,
that we can do nothing without his aid and
assistance, but how often we forget this and
take the praise to ourselves. Let us re-
solve each day of our lives to live nearer to
the Lord, and if we fail try again and nev-
er weary in well-doing, that our lives may
be such, that we may be worthy of the
name Latter-day Saints.
	MISS JOSEPHINE MEYER.
11th Ward, S. L. City, June 17, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
WHO IS IT?

	One approached me with a smile upon
her lips, and with the air of a friend. She
opened her mouth, and her speech betrayed
her. Her tongue was like a barbed arrow,
dipped in venom. No one was safe, none
escaped. From the characters of the high-
est dignitaries of the land to the lowliest
member of society, each were alike black-
ened by her misrepresentations. She had
her admirers, who zealously repeated what-
ever dropped from her lips, although many
knew not the trouble they were making by
listening to her words. She appeared the
gayest of the gay, while mischief accom-
panied her, and trouble followed her foot-
steps. She appeared a friend, and proved
an enemy. If she was allowed to speak, or
found a listener, she turned, and to the
next one she met she told some fault that
she had discovered in her former hearer.
If one had a weakness, it was discerned
and brought to light; if she found nothing
to condemn, she readily invented some
dreadful story, calculated to produce harm.
She deems none friends, but all enemies.


She brings discord into cities, towns and
families; uproots the very foundation of
society, destroys confidence, and brings a
blight instead of a blessing.  Let us drive
her from our midst, for her touch is like
pitch, and wherever she comes she leaves
a mark.  We must put her down, for heav-
en itself would be no heaven with her in
our midst; she is unworthy of a place
amongst us.  How I despise, how I loathe
her!  how disgusting she seems to me!
Who is this dreadful creature, and what is
her name that we may avoid her?  Her
name is, Madame Scandal.
EMILY B. SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS.

MRS. FANNY Fairchild Bryant, wife of
the great poet, was born in 1797, and died
in 1868.  She was described by her hus-
band "An humble disciple of Christ, ex-
emplary in every relation of life, affection-
ate, sympathetic, and cincere, and ever oc-
cupied with the welfare of others."
MISS EMILY Platt, niece of Presid
Hayes, was recently married at the Whit[-]
House to Gen. Russell Hastings, formerly
Lieut. Col. of the President's old regiment.
The wedding was strictly private--the
bride and Mrs. Hayes being far too sensi-
ble to sanction the foolish display so much
in vogue in fashionable life on similar oc-
casions--EX.
 WE HAVE received several numbers now
of the "English woman's Review," pub-
lished in London.  It is in pamphlet form,
and contains fifty pages of solid reading
matter.  It is devoted to woman's advance
ment, and contains speeches of dist
guished people on suffrage, its influence
and tendencies, women occupying offices,
medical women, women as lawyers, school
superintendents and professors of various
kinds, their capabilities and needs.  It
gives one good ideas of progressive work
in Italy, France and all the larger kingdoms
and dominions in Europe.  Reviews of
noted books, etc.
 Who shall say that the age of the pro-
phets is over, when Barbanera, the Appen-
nine astrologer, foretold the deaths of Vic-
tor Emmanuel and the Pope, and when
the still more famous and ancient prophecy
about Constantinople is being fulfilled?
The latter dates from the middle of the
15th century, and runs thus:--
In twice two hundred years the Cross
The Crescent shall assail,
But if the Cook and Bull unite
The Bear shall not prevail.
But, lo! in twice ten years again,
Let Islam know and fear,
The Cross shall wax, the Crescent wane,
Grow pale and disappear.
The first half of the prophecy was, of
course, fulfilled in the Crimean War, when
the Cock (Gallus Gaul) united with John
Bull against the Russian Bear.  It was just
"twice ten years" after the peace of 1856
that the insurrection broke out in Herzego-
vina, which was the beginning of what
promises to be the end of Turkey in Eu-
rope.--Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

MT. PLEASANT, June 27, 1878.
	Annual Meeting and report of Relief So-
ciety, May 11, 1878.
Donations for the poor..............$197. 28
Disbursements to the poor......... 157. 30
To Manti Temple....................... 77. 22
Welsh Emigration...................... 20. 00
Stock in Co-op Store.................  17. 73
Stock in Co-op Tannery............   5. 00
Balance in Treasury.................. 39. 93
Wheat stored..............................261 bu.
	Our ciphers may not be quite as large as
some Societies can show, but if it comes to
the real point as it was said to the sisters
when the first Society was organized in
Nauvoo, comfort those that are sick, build
up the broken-hearted, &c., then I think
our Society can stand equal with any other
organization, and surely our President can.
	I do not think there is anything out of
the way in writing of our President; I hope
that I will not wound her noble feelings
by doing so; but we all know that she shows
a most worthy example to all that wish to
do right. It can truly be said of her, when
trials and troubles bend down a woman's
heart, her comfort is not far off, and cannot
fail to have its effect, when it comes from a
heart that has passed through some of the
severest trials that a woman can endure.
	There is not a person in our settlement
sick, or in need of comfort, but she will
visit them; there are none for years passed
that have drawn their last breath and been
laid away to rest, neither old nor young,
rich or poor, but her kind hand has admin-
istered the last services, as we all wish a
kind soul to do for us. And what comfort
that is to those who are left to mourn, as it
is our nature to do. None can tell, only
those who have passed through this trouble,
and by them it can never be forgotten. No
one can say of her that she ever refused
when called upon, and even when her health
would not permit. That is the only fault
(if it can be called so), that she thinks too
little of her own health, and is not careful
enough; but our prayer is that the Lord
will strengthen her, now especially, as her
health is poor and her strength over done,
that she may be spared to do good, and be
a comfort to us and her family. I might
say much about her instruction and teach-
ing in our meetings, but I only say it is
excellent and full of the good Spirit.
	I do not say it to praise her, that is not
what she is working for; I only say to all
who are co-workers with her to "go and do
likewise," that the Lord may bless and
strengthen them in their efforts to do good,
and all will be put down in the great treas-
ury book of the Lord, that will be opened
when we meet behind the veil; then will
come the reward of the righteous.
	R. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.

	HOYTSVILLE, June 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of Hoytsville would like
to represent ourselves in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. We were reorganized December
6th, 1877, by President W. W. Cluff, and
Bishop Alonzo Winters. The following
named sisters were sustained as officers:
	Parthenia A. Holt, President,
	Sarah Mills,		Counselors.
	Ann Mills,
	Mary E. Holt, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Crittenden, Treasurer.
	Since that time Sister Ann Mills has re-
signed her position, and Sister Edith Hob-

[Column 2]

son has been appointed to fill the vacancy.
We have enrolled as members,twenty-three
names; we meet together once in two
weeks, and our meetings are very well at-
tended, considering the scattered condition
of the sisters. We have under cultiva-
tion four acres of wheat, and have fifty-five
dollars and eighty-five cents in the tannery.
We are striving to become united in doing
all the good we can towards building up
Zion.
	Wishing your valuable paper prosperity,
&c.,
	MARY E. HOYT, Secretary.

	SPRING CITY, SANPETE CO,
		May, 19, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annnal Meeting May 2d,
and herewith send you our report:
Distributed to the sick and needy..$122. 22
Wheat stored..........................246 bu., 18 lb.
For the Temple...............................$ 95. 65
Cash on hand..................................   52. 90
Sunday articles...............................   11. 32
Share in Co-op Store....................   210. 00
	The health of the people in general is
quite good; and all the sisters show a lively
interest in the Society and the upbuilding
of the kingdom of God.
	We deeply sympathize with you and the
bereaved family of Counselor Wells, and
pray God to bless and comfort you all in
the loss of so amiable a daughter and sis-
ter, and hope the young girls who read the
representation of her character in the EX-
PONENT, will strive to follow the example
she has set before them, and assist as she
has done to build up the kingdom of God,
that when they are called to go they may
leave a like name.
	P. E. BENSON, Secretary.

	FRANKLIN, June 1st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We give a brief report from our Young
Ladies' Association. We were organized
under the immediate direction of Sisters
Zina D. Young and E. Davis, Oct. 30, 1877.
The following officers were then unanimous-
ly elected:
	Mary A. Hawks, President,
	Clara Hatch,
	Sarah A. Smart,
	Sarah Thomas,		Counselors.
	Agnes Durrant,
	Mary J. Doney,
	Betsy Low,
	Sarah A. Smart, Secretary,
	Ruth Hatch, Assistant Secretary,
	Annie Hatch, Treasurer.
	Our meetings have been well attended
during the winter; the young sisters have
manifested a great desire to be benefitted
by attending the same. We are desirous
of laboring in the cause of truth, and we
know of no better source of developing
those talents which God has given us, than
by striving strictly to attend to those du-
ties which are enjoined upon us in these
institutions which have been framed for
our mutual benefit.
	We were highly favored with a visit
from Sisters Eliza R. Snow and E. Davis
on the 10th of May last. A meeting was
held in the afternoon for the Relief Society;
Sister E. R. Snow addressed the meeting
at considerable length, showing the sisters
their duties and privileges, and encourag-
ing them to faithfulness. In the evening
there was a meeting for the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and many others, old and young, assembled

[Column 3]

with them. We had an interesting time
listening to our honored elder sisters, E.
R. Snow and E. Davis, who gave us such
counsel and advice through the Spirit of
the Lord, that we need not go astray from
the truth. Owing to the sterility of the
climate we have not as yet raised any mul-
berry trees, therefore we have not turned
our attention to sericulture, but are en-
deavoring in our weak way to encourage
all home industries, and be co-workers in
doing all the good we can, in connection
with our sisters elsewhere. Wishing your
very valuable paper success, we remain, &c.,
	MISS MARY A. HAWKS, Pres't,
		MISS SARAH H. SMART, Sec.


CORRESPONDENCE.
							SALT RIVER, May 26, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Good health generally prevails in camp.
Our canal is nearly finished, and we hope
soon to get ourselves established on our
own property once more. We will then be
about five miles from the river, and about
twenty  miles north-east of the Pimo and
Maricopa villages on the Gila, the same at
which the "Battalion boys" spent New-
Year's Day, when they passed through this
country. The Indians have mostly desert-
ed the Gila, it having sank or dried up two
or three years since; this is frequently the
case with small streams in this country.
Upon being told while traveling, that we
should cross a certain river to-day, the first
question that presented itself would be is
there water in it? Ths Indians visit us
frequently, but are not such persistent beg-
gars as the Utes, although they do not re-
fuse anything offered. We hope to benefit
them by precept and example. We hold
Sabbath meetings under a large tree; the
brethren are taking measures to organize a
Sabbath School. We have a day school in
successful operation, taught by Miss Zulie
Pomeroy, with about twenty pupils, so you
see we do not mean to have Arizona too far
behind other Territories in the next school
reports. The Mexicans are mostly Catho-
lic, their graves are all ornamented with a
cross, sometimes rude and uncouth, but al-
ways in the form of a cross. They seem to
be satisfied with what they have and seek
nothing further.
	It is rumored that the Apaches have bro-
ken away from their reservation on the
Little Colorado, and are doing some mis-
chief to ranchemen and stock, however we
do not anticipate any trouble with them.
Some of the brethren have been here from
the settlement on the San Pedro, and re-
port things there in a prosperous condition.
	Our town site is selected: It is a beauti-
ful location for a town, there will be no
need of grading for street-car tracks it is so
level and smooth, not even rocks or gravel.
They are talking of calling it Montezuma,
but 'tis not decided.
	We all feel to acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in bringing us here. Wishing to
be remembered kindly to all inquiring
friends, I remain yours, etc.,
				FRANCELLE E. RONSON.


WE HAVE Vol. 1, No. 2, of "The Union,'
published in St. George by J. W. Carpen-
ter. The motto is "United we stand, di-
vided we fall." Price, $1.00 a year. We
are glad to see a paper started in that vi-
cinity, and trust it may prove a successful
enterprise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LITTLE CHAIR.
Oh! the children, happy children,
Smiling everywhere I go;
Some as brown as Autumn's berries,
Some as fair as Winter Snow.

Some with eyes as blue as morning,
Some with eyes as dark as night,
Some with faces strangely thoughtful,
Some with faces strangely bright.

And the while I gayly greet them
Back my heart returneth where,
In my room amongst the flowers,
Stands a baby's little chair.

But, alas! the laughing darling,
That in precious by-gone days
Sat there, never more will cheer me,
With his pretty naughty ways.

Cunning feet placed on the table--
When his noontide meal was e'er--
Cup of milk poured on the sugar,
Spoon andlfork dropped on the floor.

Then when "mother's" face grew cloudy
Little arms around me thrown,
Little hands my cheeks caressing,
Sweet lips pressed upon my own.

Oh! the children, happy children--
Yes, I meet them everywhere:
But at home amongst the flowers,
Stands a baby's empty chair.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I sometimes feel it almost a duty devolv-
ing upon me to transmit some of my ram-
bling thoughts to paper for publication ex-
pressive of my gratitude to my Heavenly
Father for his mercy and goodness towards
me and mine, who are invariably blessed
with good health, and a goodly portion of
the Spirit of God which teaches and guides
us in the path marked out for us to follow;
but I have refrained, fearing, though per-
haps foolishly, that my sisters might deem
me officious, or desirous of being noticed,
but as notoriety is not a characteristic of
my nature I withhold my pen no longer in
a good cause, and ever pray that I may live
the life of a Saint and perform those du-
ties which rest upon me as a mother in Is-
rael. I do desire my children to become
bright and useful ornaments in the service
and kingdom of God, and also willing and
obedient to their earthly parents whose
constant prayers are for their good that
they may lay claim to the blessing of life
as promised in the 5th commandment.
	The Gospel was introduced to me in Lon-
don in 1852, by a zealous man who subse-
quently became my husband, emigrated to
Utah in the last hand-cart company in 56,
and entered the holy order of Celestial
Marriage in the spring of 57; have had
twenty-one years experience in the valleys
of the mountains, and feel thankful for my
standing in the Church of Jesus Christ,
and for a husband who delights in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and who is honest and
just in his dealings with all. I have not
been favored in Zion like some, with earth-
ly riches, but I do not feel to repine, for I
have blessings which far exceed these, for
the Lord has enriched me with a grateful
and appreciative heart, which were it possi-
ble,I would not exchange for all this world's
goods. I try to gain knowledge and wis-
dom that I can lay up treasures in heaven
where rust and moth cannot corrupt, and
pray that my mind may become fruitful
and my memory refreshed, that I may re-
tain those good things which I read and
hear, that they may prove a lasting benefit
to me. I rejoice in the Gospel dispensation
and in the principle of Plural Marriage,
knowing it is of divine origin, by its en-
nobling and purifying tendencies. Man
could not, neither would he devise such a

[Column 2]
great and grand design as the Lord has in
view, 'tis too pure and god-like for the un-
godly to trifle with, and I am thankful for
it that a righteous seed may be raised up
to rule and govern upon the earth, under
the jurisdiction of the Almighty Creator,
that his purposes may be finally brought
about which are destined to redeem man-
kind. I am one alone out of a large family
and have quite a list of my genealogy when
the way opens for me to officiate for my
dead relatives, and friends, and as a sister
told me I am as a Savior upon Mount Zion.
I am also thankful for the societies and as-
sociations formed among women, and that
I am counted worthy to be a co-worker
therein and trust they will answer the pur-
pose for which they were organized, and
may we strive to improve our moral and
intellectual worth is my earnest desire.
M. A. TATE.
Goshen Valley, May 28, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I want to say a few words to the sisters
through your columns, in my humble way
of writing. I am thankful I have the priv-
ilege of being numbered with the Saints,
yea, the greatest dispensation of the world.
Dear young sisters let us consider the im-
portance of the times we are living in.
Let us be prayerful yea, pray always, that
we may be prepared for the changes that
are to take place here on the earth, even
for the coming of our blessed Lord and
Savior. Let us seek to be found worthy to
receive the blessings the Lord has in store
for the faithful. My dear young friends
consider it is you that will by and by have
the responsibility of bearing off this king-
dom. There is a great work to be done for
the dead. We read in the Scriptures, "We
cannot be made perfect without them, nor
they without us; then let us be wise for
now is the day of salvation. Sisters cease
to follow after the fashions of Babylon,
make your dresses neat and comely that
you may look fit for the society of holy an-
gels. This is the way I would like to see
my daughters dress, and all the young la-
dies in Zion; then I think our Heavenly
Father would smile upon them. I pray
continually that the spirit of the Lord and
His blessings may rest npon all the sisters,
especially the young, and that wisdom may
be imparted to the sisters from the Lord
that they may have understanding. Let
us honor our teachers and those who are in
authority over us; girls honor your moth-
ers as your guardian angels. Let us coun-
sel and comfort one another. It is good to
go to a sister and friend when we are in
trouble or sorrow and receive kindness at
their hands and consolation from their lips.
	God bless every humble and faithful
saint is my prayer. JEMIMA BROWN.


MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
MT. PLEASANT, June 23, 1878.
	On the stand were Sisters Eliza R. Snow
and Zina D. Young of Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Amelia Goldsbrough of Nephi, Mrs. M. A.
P. Hyde and Mrs. Alred of Spring City,
and Mrs. Irons of Moroni, also Mrs. Mor-
rison, President of the Relief Society of
Mt. Pleasant, and her Counselors.  Meet-
ing was called to order by the President.
Opened by singing prayer, etc.  Miss E.
R. Snow arose and said she had looked
over the financial reports and was well
pleased with them; the Prophet Joseph had
said that whenever the church was fully
organized there would be Relief Societies
and if they would carry out the will of the
Lord, they would  become the most glorious
societies that were ever formed.  Said we
should all be rewarded for our labors wheth-
er they were all reported or not.  If we
keep the Comforter in our bosoms, we
should always be happy and the labors of
life would be pleasant and we would realize
that we were working for a purpose. Every 
one would have to work out his or her sal-
vation and one could not do the work for 
the other.  Urged the sisters, if there was
any one who had not joined the society to
do so and they would find it of great bene-
fit to them; it is woman that gives tone
to society, hence she should seek to im-
prove in everything that is noble and good;
the success of the Relief Societies is as
much to the interest of the brethren as to
the sisters.  The Lord has offered us the 
highest glory in the Celestial World, and
revealed unto us the law by which it could
be obtained, "Celestial Marriage," and if
people thought that a man who had been
sealed to one wife only, could obtain the
same degree of glory as the man who had
received more and was faithful, they would
find themselves dreadfully mistaken; and
the man that would not obey this law could
not become a God in the Celestial Kingdom.
She exhorted the sisters to read the Church
works and other useful books and to avoid
that class of reading that would be no ben-
efit to them; recommended for the Y. I.
Association to introduce home reading and
report in their meetings.  Said if Zion did
not become self-sustaining we would suffer
when the time came that we would be cut
off from Babylon; also recommended the
setting out of mulberry-trees and the rais-
ing of silk.  Related a vision given to a
certain young man forshadowing famine
and distress that will come among this peo-
ple.
Mrs. Zina D. Young was next introduced
to the congregation and said:  We should
strive to imitate the love and goodness of
our Heavenly Father and let it extend to
all around us; it was no doubt right for the
Lord to try the rising generation so they
might have a chance to show whether they
would yield to the tempter or not.  The
sin is not in being tempted, but in falling
into temptation.  She presented some fine
specimens of silk cloth, dress goods, fringe,
thread, etc., all of home production.  Hoped
the sisters would patronize the Woman's
paper, the EXPONENT, and read the good
instruction therein contained.
Miss E. R. Snow felt to acknowledge the
kind assistance rendered to the Territorial
Fair by the ladies of this place, in the fine
specimens of workmanship forwarded by
them; related the establishment and pro-
gress of the Woman's Commission Store in
S. L. City.  Wished the young sisters to
write for the EXPONENT and accustom
themselves to writing generally.
Mrs. Morrison made a few remarks and
desired those who wished to subscribe for
the EXPONENT to hand in their names,
several responded.  A vote of thanks was
tendered to Sisters Snow and Young for
the visit they had made us and for the rich
and valuable instructions we had received
from them.
John Tidwell sen., was called upon and
responded in a few remarks expressing his
satisfaction and joy in meeting with old
time friends and listening to their words
of encouragement.
W. S. Seely made a few remarks and ex-
horted the people to profit by what they
had heard from the sisters.
Singing, and prayer by C. N. Lund.
M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
R. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
MORAL COURAGE IN WOMEN.

	What a vast amount of courage is needed in
the warfare of life. The various conditions
and circumstances incident to an experience
here, call for strength of character and firmness;
and in addition to these characteristics, one
must possess a certain ingredient which can
be defined by no other name than courage.
There are sure to be many occasions in which
this attribute must be called into exercise, or
the person would shrink from performing ur-
gent duties, and be fit only to sit in a retreat
some stronger arm had prepared, without suffi-
cient heroism to face the battle of life, while
some one possessing true moral courage goes
forth to do battle for them with the stern reali-
ties of the world. Courage is considered one
of the principal elements in the nature of man.
Most people seem to think women are very
deficient in this respect; the assertion has been
made so often, that it has resolved itself into
what is taken as testimony by the majority,
and yet thousands of instances might be cited,
to prove that women bravely face difficulties
and misfortunes with strong and firm confi-
dence, while men, with all their boasted superior-
ity of conrage, retreat, leaving the weak to the
rescue.
	How often do we see strong men leave deli-
cate women to face unpleasant phases of life
alone, while they run away, to avoid bearing
their share of the very burdens they have been
the means of accumulating. It always re-
quires self-sacrifice to face disagreeable things,
and women do really seem to have that self-
discipline, that divinity in their nature, that
inspire[-] them to practise self-denial, to live
more for others and less for selfish aims and
purposes than man. These qualities are part
of the truly beautiful in what is termed wo-
manliness, and one is sometimes led to think
that men esteem this phase of woman's char-
acter so much that they are anxious to give
her opportunities to display it, that they may
look on and admire. When troubles come,
when poverty and misfortune and suffering
seem to settle down upon the household, is it
not too often the case that the husband and
father resorts to scenes of dissipation, and
seeks to drown his sorrows by the aid of strong
drink; while the wife and mother bravely
strives to stem the tide of misfortune alone,
and by her own industry and with a courage
sometimes almost more than human, patiently
supports the burdens of life, braving the sever-
est storms and stemming the strongest cur-
rents which rise up on all sides to discourage?
	In view of all these facts, men holding pub-
lic offices, rulers in the land and over peoples,
men of culture, men of letters, cry out contin-
ually women are dependent, women can't

[Column 2]
fight, yet men leave women to fight the terri-
ble battles of life that in some instances are
worse to face than death, and those who are
not brave enough to bear the scoffs, and jeers,
and frowns they know must be met in taking
up again life's weary burdens, seek death in
any form, in preference to accepting such con-
ditions as they know must be their only refuge,
wanting strength to live down the past. But
thousands of women in all ages heroically rise
up and arm themselves with a courage that is
admirable, not bold and defiant, but simply
noble in its strength.
	Women do certainly seem to possess a posi-
tive power in their nature, which often makes
itself apparent in the midst of difficulties, and
inspires them, as it were, with faith in them-
selves, that lifts them into a higher and clearer
atmosphere of thought and feeling, and has
such an influence over their lives as to create
strength to overcome obstacles that erst had
seemed insupportable. Every person has a
certain amount of influence over others, in the
family life, in the social circle, and in some
degree it may extend through these sources to
the public. Every woman who has self-reliant
powers, who has faith in her own character,
who believes herself capable of achieving good,
will have an object and a laudable ambition,
and if in connection with this she has that
grace and humility which are component parts
of true womanly worth, then she will be apt
to keep her balance. And added to all these if
she is a Christian, a follower of Jesus' precepts,
she has still another anchor of safety.
	If "women can't and won't fight," if the ele-
ments of peace are so strong in their nature,
then would it not be a good element to infuse
into the laws and governments of nations, and
might it not be a power that would aid in hast-
ening the day when "peace and good will"
should prevail and men should no longer wage
war against each other.
		[handwritten E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE LEARN, by letter from Mrs. S. J. A.
Spencer of Washington, that there has been
40,000 names to XVI Amendment petitions
presented in both House and Senate since the
beginning of the 45th Congress. The number
of separate petitions is over 400, from some 425
Congressional Districts in 35 States and 5 Ter-
ritories. Mrs. Spencer has printed 50,000 ap-
peals to women to work for their own enfran-
chisement, and has addressed them to 20,000
P. O. towns. She says she is greatly encour-
aged at the response.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will teach a class in
Obstetrics, commencing immediately after the
October Conference. The class will be taught
at Mrs. Barney's, 11th Ward, 2d South St., 6 1/2
blocks east of Post Office. Students can be
accommodated on reasonable terms; reside and
recite in the same building. Those wishing to
join will please correspond and learn particu-
lars, arrangements should be made as early as
the middle of August. We have addressed
letters to many of the Relief Society Presi-
dents, but it is thought best to insert a few
lines in the EXPONENT, for the benefit of those
who may wish to attend, that our previous
correspondence has not yet reached. Address,
E. S. Barney, Salt Lake City, Box, 739.
	THE "PEARL of Great Price" has been re-
vised, and is now ready for sale at the "Deseret
News" Office. The book contains much of in-
terest to this people, and which would be bene-
ficial to those anxious to gain correct informa-
tion concerning the Gospel. It is a collection

[Column 2]

of choice matter; taken from the revelations,
translations and narrations of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith. The book contains the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, given to the Prophet in
Nauvoo, Illinois. It has three woodcuts, fac
similes from the "Book of Abraham." It is
bound in cloth and paper, at different prices.
The book will be a valuable addition to the
libraries of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions. It would certainly be advisable for the
young people in this community to read such
books, and get ideas concerning principles of
truth. Price, cloth binding, 75 cts; paper
cover, 50 cts.
	MRS. HANNAH T. King, one of our contrib-
utors, has elaborated and published in pam-
phlet form her articles entitled "Women of
the Scriptures." She has dedicated the book
to the "Young Ladies of Utah." Mrs. King
hopes by this means to awaken an interest in
the young ladies to the reading of the Scrip-
tures, and examining into the characters and
attributes of holy women. She has arranged
them according to the age in which they lived,
commencing with Eve, Sarah, Hagar, Rebecca,
and so on, taking in all of the most noble and
sublime heroines of the Bible, down to Mary,
the mother of Jesus, Martha and Mary, to
Dorcas or Tabitha, she from whom so many
benevolent societies have been named. It
closes with a short poem addressed to woman.
The price, 10 cents, brings it within the reach
of all. It is adapted for use in Sunday School
classes. It is neatly got up in a variety of col-
ors, suitable to lay upon any lady's table. The
pamphlet is for sale at this Office, at Dwyer's
Book Store, at several Ward Stores, and at
Mrs. King's residence, 17th Ward.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in this city,
Saturday and Sunday, July 6th and 7th, Presi-
dent A. M. Cannon presiding. A Quarterly
statistical report of this Stake was read, includ-
ing the report of building committee for the
New Tabernacle, the amount donated to Salt
Lake Temple, financial report of Relief Socie-
ty of Salt Lake Stake from the first organiza-
tion, also quarterly report of last three months;
report of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions and Sunday Schools. The General Au-
thorities of this Stake of Zion were presented
and unanimously sustained, including the
presidency of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake. President Cannon addressed the meet-
ing during the morning session. In the after-
noon Elder O. Pratt and Elder W. Woodruff
gave a most earnest exhortation to the Latter-
day Saints to awake to the importance of the
times, and realize the great responsibilities they
were called upon to carry out. Sunday the
forenoon and afternoon services were most
specially interesting; Elder George Q. Cannon,
Delegate to Congress (recently returned), re-
lated something of his experience during this
last session of Congress, the general feeling
wnich existed towards this people since the
death of Pres. Young, and many things which
were very entertaining and instructive. Elder
Joseph F. Smith preached a very powerful ser-
mon upon Celestial Marriage, its benefits, &c.
Pres. John Taylor made the closing remarks
of the afternoon, and strongly and earnestly
appealed to the Elders of Israel to awake from
their slumber and magnify their callings be-
fore the Lord, and honor the Priesthood they
held. The Spirit of God was abundantly man-
ifest in the speakers. The Tabernacle was well
filled on Sunday. The music throughout the
Conference was of a high order, lofty and ele-
vating in tone.


[Column 1]
	A PHILANTHROPIC, moral work is now being
agitated among the sisters, which will, if car-
ried into execution (and it probably will be if
women take hold of it), help to cultivate some
of the little boys born in Zion, that now are
much in need of teaching and discipline.
There are some mothers, and some ladies who
have no children of their own, watching the
growth of evil among the young, and they feel
strongly impressed that some course must be
taken to arrest the development of evil tenden-
cies, and implant in the minds of the younger
boys of the community a love of principle, a
regard for truth, a respect for virtue and hones-
ty, and a remembrance for keeping the Sabbath
holy. It is scarcely yet known what the direct
methods will be, but some suggestions have
been made and some plans proposed, and we feel
it is timely. It is a very important matter, and
one that deserves the best thoughts of the
wisest men and women, especially the fathers
and mothers.
	This people spend time and money, leave
their homes and families to preach the Gospel
in foreign lands, and travel by land and sea,
enduring hardships and persecution, that they
may save some; but while all these things are
being done according to the designs of God in
these last days, the children born in Zion must
not be suffered to grow up in ignorance and
unbelief, disregarding the commandments of
God and breaking His holy Sabbath. We know
the teaching in Sunday Schools is a great in-
centive to good, but there must be other co-op-
erating influences in connection with this, for
children have so great a flow of animal spirits,
and their natures are so susceptible to influ-
ences that surround them, that unless there is
a constant safeguard thrown around them in
tender years, they are liable to be led into evil
practises, and their lives blighted through hab-
its and associations that are improper and tend
to evil.
	WEDNESDAY, July 10, the Quarterly Con-
ference of Davis Co. Stake Relief Society was
held in Farmington, at the Meeting House,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m. and at 2 o'clock
p.m., forenoon and afternoon session. There
were present on the stand President of Stake,
Wm. Smith, Bishop Hess of Farmington, Pa-
triarch Roswell Hyde of Kaysville, Miss Eliza
R. Snow and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City, and Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes, President of
Relief Society local Stake, her Counselors,
Mrs. Mary S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, Secre-
tary Miss Minerva Richards, also Presidents of
other local branches. Minutes of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society Stake, and reports
from all the branches in the County, except
South Weber, were read by the Secretary. The
reports proved that the sisters in that County
had been diligent in good works, and possessed
good financial ability. Since their first organ-
ization they have contributed largely, in vari-
ous ways, towards promoting the establishment
of Zion.
	Some eloquent and earnest remarks were
made by the sisters, appropriate to the occa-
sion, upon the duties and responsibilities of
woman as a Saint and citizen; also upon the
storing of grain, home industries, especially
sericulture and straw work. Miss Snow made
a touching appeal to the audience on the sub-
ject of Sabbath breaking and its terrible conse-
quences; in fact, she said so many good things
that we cannot enumerate them. She called
upon all the sisters who had home-manufac-
tured hats or bonnets to stand up, and there
was a goodly number, but not so many as one
would expect in a settlement where straw-
material is abundant. In the afternoon Miss

[Column 2]
Snow spoke upon the efforts which were being
made to become self-sustaining, the various
duties of Saints, the mission given to the Re-
lief Societies to manufacture silk, and called
for all the sisters who were raising cocoons to
give their names to the Secretary. President
Holmes called upon each President of the re-
spective branches in Davis Co. to represent
her Society from the stand. Mrs. Phebe At-
kinson of South Bountiful, Mrs. Elizabeth
Barlow of East Bountiful, Mrs. Susan Grant
of West Bountiful, Mrs. Margaret Randall of
Centreville, Mrs. Hortensia Leonard of Farm-
ington, Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Kaysville,
Mrs. King, Counselor to Mrs. Janet Cook of
South Weber, Mrs. Elizabeth Williams of
South Hooper, all responded, making a few
remarks upon the work in their respective lo-
calities, and their great desire to help in build-
ing up the kingdom of God. The Presidents
of Y. L. M. I. A. were then called. Mrs. Lucy
Clark represented the Association of Farming,
ton, Mrs. Williams that of Kaysville, Mrs.
Caroline Dalrymple of Centreville, Mrs. Holt
of East Bountiful. Miss E. R. Snow, by re-
quest of the officers of the Stake, after some
explanatory remarks, nominated Mrs. Nancy
A. Clark to preside over the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciations of Davis Co. Stake; the vote to sustain
her in that office was unanimous. Miss
Wealthy Richards was nominated as her Sec-
retary, and sustained by unanimous vote.
President Wm. Smith and Bishop J. W. Hess
then set apart the sisters who preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake in that County
for their special offices. Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes,
President, and her two Counselors, also Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark to preside over the Young
Ladies' Associations. Pres. Smith and Bishop
Hess each made some very excellent remarks
approving of the business of the Conference,
the teaching and instruction which had been
given, and encouraging the sisters to persevere
in their labors. The meeting was one of great
interest, and calculated to promote and
strengthen the growth of spiritual, moral and
intellectual culture among the sisters, and to
aid the various branches of the Society in
more effectually uniting to do good.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		29


PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Why do we hear the Latterday Saints speak
evil of each other and the holy prin-
ciples of the Gospel? I often wonder why this
can be, or who is to blame for it. I think if
we mothers would examine ou[-]selves, we
would see where the evil springs from; and I
think if we would keep the spirit of God with
us always, and go to our Heavenly Father and
ask wisdom and strength it would be beneficial
in helping us to have influence with our child-
ren; and help us to sustain holy principles,
which we know that the Lord has revealed for
our exaltation. If we could exercise a little
more faith in God, the little troubles that come
up in our way from time to time, would not
annoy us. I speak, from my own experience.
I have lived in plural marriage for seventeen
years and I thank my Heavenly Father that I
have been counted worthy of the honor of do-
ing so. I truly know my sisters if we honor
this pure principle, we will be numbered with
the honorable daughters of Zion, when the
Lord comes to make up his jewels. To know
that is worth living for. If we all expect to
gain Celestial glory, then we must work for it,
and not be forgetful and neglect the duties we
owe to our Heavenly Father. The experience
I have gained the last seventeen years I would
not give for anything I know of in this world.
								A. M.


DIED April 5th, in Tooele City, in child-
birth, Mary J. Madden Dunn, aged thirty-six
years, she leaves a husband and six children,
but their loss will be her eternal gain.  In all
the sorrows and vicissitudes of life she proved
herself a faithful Latter-day Saint; she had
many noble traits of character, and her mem-
ory will never be forgotten by those with whom
she has been associated--CM.


ANOTHER WONDERFUL GAVE IN
KENTUCKY.

	Another wonderlul cave has recently been
discovered near Glasgow Junction, Ky. It
has already been explored for a distance of
23 miles in one direction, called the long
route, and 16 miles in another direction,
called the short route. The avenues are
very wide; a span of horses can easily be
driven through for a distance of 11 miles.
Three rivers, wide and very deep, are en-
countered on the long route. One of them
is navigable for 14 miles, until the passages
become too narrow to admit a boat. This
forms the third, or river route. which has
to be explored in a boat.
	The cave is wonderful beyond descrip-
tion, and far surpasses in grandeur the
Mammoth, or any other cave ever before
discovered. Several mummified remains
have been discovered in one of the large
rooms. They were reposing in stone cof-
fins, rudely constructed, and from appear-
ances may have been in this cave for cen-
turies. They present every appearance of
the Egyptian mummies.
	Great excitement prevails over this very
important discovery. Edwin Mortimore,
of Chestnut Street, Louisville, Ky., pur-
chased three of the mummies, and has them
now in his possession. Major George M.
Proctor, of Glasgow Junction, Ky., pur-
chased the remainder of the mummies from
the owner of the cave, Thomas Kelley. The
latter is, or rather was a few days ago, a
very poor man struggling to make a pay-
ment on a farm of 24 acres, upon which, by
mere accident, the entrance to this wonder-
ful cave was discovered. He obtained about
$400 cash for the mummies, and is now of-
fered $10,000 cash for the cave.
	The entrance to the cave is within the
town limits, and is only about two minutes'
walk from the depot, which makes it very
valuable indeed, as visitors will not be
compelled to travel five miles in a stage
coach, as they do if desirous of visiting the
Mammoth cave, which is five miles from
this town. In fact, all the celebrated caves
in Kentucky are in this immediate vicin-
ity. The surface is very much broken, full
of great, elevations and depressions, with
everything to indicate that there were vol-
canic eruptions or violent upheavals of the
earth at some period.
	The newly discovered cave has been
named the Grand Crystal cave, and is as
beautiful as its name implies. Ladders and
bridges are being constructed, and J. R.
Puckett, a capitalist of the town; announces
his intention of having a small steamboat
constructed expressly for the purpose of
navigating its wonderful rivers.—[Dispatch
to Cincinnati Commercial.]


For Rheumatism.—Take one quart of hops, one
large handful of wormwood, boil them well to-
gether in one gallon of water; then strain the
liquid and boil it down to one quart; add one
quart of the best brandy and one pound of white
sugar. Take one tablespoonful three times a day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

			ST. GEORGE, June, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	The St. George First Ward Relief Socie-
ty held their first annual meeting on
Wednesday the 1st of June, at 2 o'clock p.
m. In consequence of a heavy shower of
rain, the attendance was not as large as
would have been desirable. After the
opening of the meeting the Secretary read
the report which reflected great credit on
her, for the neat and concise manner in
which it was made out; it showed our So-
ciety to be in an excellent financial condi-
tion. The amount which the society has
received in donations and otherwise since
its organization is two hundred and seventy
dollars. The amount now on hand in dif-
ferent kinds of property, is three hundred
and nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents,
showing that the sisters have made, by
their united efforts and faithful labor, a
clear profit of forty-nine dollars and sixty-
five cents. Independent of this they have
donated during the year, to the poor and
Temples, seventy-eight dollars and ten
cents.
	We have been greatly blessed of the
Lord, and materially assisted by our Bishop
and other brethren of the ward who have
taken a lively interest, and have never been
backward in rendering us assistance.
There were present at our meeting, besides
members, President J. T. D. McAllister,
Bishop Miles P. Romney, Wm. Fawcett
and President Anna L. Ivins, all of whom
spoke in a lovely manner, instructing and
encouraging us. Our previous officers were
re-elected and unanimously sustained, hav-
ing proven themselves well qualified for
their positions. Sister Sarah Church, an
energetic and enterprising woman, well
known to many of your citizens has suc-
ceeded in raising for the society about one
lb. of cocoons, as a small beginning to the
silk business, she has also saved a few silk-
worm eggs with a view to trying again
next year. The Bishop in his remarks,
spoke encouragingly in regard to silk cul-
ture, he hoped they would not give it up,
or let die out; he thanked the sisters for
their aid in looking after the poor, and
sick, and seemed to appreciate the labors
of the Society very much.
	The health of the people is not very good
this Spring. Work is still going on in the
Temple.
				A MEMBER OF R. S.

	MENDON, CACHE CO., May 31st, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place was held May 28, 1868.
The meeting was well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters bore their
testimonies exhorting to faithfulness and
diligence in the building up of the king-
dom of God, knowing the time is short and
much to be accomplished. Made mention
of the loving kindness of our Heavenly
Father, also expressed their desire to aid
by their labor and means to build Temples.
They expressed their satisfaction at the re-
sult of our year's labors as a Society. Bish-
op H. Hughes gave us some very good in-
struction, he was well satisfied and pleased
with the progress we had made.
	Report for the year ending May 28, 1878,
is as follows:

Balance in Treasury in cash and orders,
May 28, 1878...............................$ 132 00

[Column 2]
Donation in Sunday Eggs...........     41 84
Quilts............................................    11 00
Socks............................................       6 00
							    ———
		Total				   190 93

	Disbursements for the year ending May
28, 1878.

Logan Temple..................................   49 71
Woolen Factory...............................   25 00
Donation to the poor.....................    14 32
Balance in Treasury in cash and or-
	ders........................................... 101 90
							      ———
	Total					     190 93
				E. A. WILLIE, Pres't.
				S. A. HUGHES, Sec'y.


PROTECTION TO WIVES.
 The House of Commons has agreed to
the new and amended Clause which was
added to the Matrimonial Causes Bill. This
measure now enables police magistrates to
grant, what is substantially a judicial separ-
ation between married couples in cases
where a husband is convicted of an aggra-
vated assault upon his wife. A magistrate’s
order will have all the effect of a judicial
separation on the ground of cruelty. The
husband will be compelled to make the
wife a weekly allowance, to be enforced, in
case of default, by an application for an or-
der to commit him to prison; and the mag-
istrate may, at his discretion, give orders
that the mother is to have custody of the
children under ten years, a supplementary
allowance for their maintenance being en-
forced from the fatner. In the event of
subsequent misconduct on the part of the
mother the children may be removed from
her care.
	The necessity of such a regulation had
become continuously more evident as
weeks and months went by. It was diffi-
cult to open a paper without finding one or
more cases of what Miss Cobbe rightly
termed “Wife Torture,” and equally diffi-
cult to avoid being struck by the painfully
inadequate punishments which were meted
to this crime. It has for a long time been
possible for a rich woman to obtain a decree
of judicial separation under circumstances
of aggravated cruelty—but the class of wo-
men which could afford to pay was precise-
ly not the class which suffered oftenest or
most terribly. It is the illiterate unreclaimed
laborer or artisan who most frequently
knocks his wife’s eye out or jumps upon
her, and for these poor women there has
hitherto been no relief except the tempor-
ary respite while her tormenter was in
prison,---overshadowed by the dread of
what he might do to her in revenge when
he came out. Now, at all events his legal
power as tormentor will be abridged. The
children, who, in many cases are nearly as
great sufferers as the wife, will also be re-
moved from his control, and he will still be
made to feel the responsibilities of hus-
band and father by the weekly payments
he is compelled to make.
	As far as it goes, the clause appears to us
an unmixed gain to women, for as the
“Pall Mall Gazette aptly observes:—“When
a husband realizes that if he belabors his
helpmeet over the head with a poker, or
smashes her ribs by kicks with hob-nailed
boots, he not only runs the risk of impris- 
onment with hard labor, but also that of
losing the services of a hardworking slave,
he will probably think twice before he
strikes or kicks once.” Nevertheless we
cannot expect it to make everything
straight at once. Where wrong has existed
for so long it needs a very steady growth
of opinion, influence of education, and un-
relaxed watchfulness on the part of the
magistrates before its evil effects can be ob-
literated. In the first place there will be
the difficulty of extorting a sufficiency of
alimony or maintenance from the husband.
Of course so long as he is in prison the wife
must either support herself and the child-
ren or go to the workhouse, for it will be a
long time before such prison reform shall
have taken place (though this is the case in
some countries) as shall enforce the pay-
ment of part of the prisoner’s earnings to
the support of his family outside. But
when he is released the magistrate will or-
der a certain allowance to be made to his
wife. This might be made more easy by
empowering his employer to pay over the
necessary portion of his weekly wages into
the wife’s own hands. It is evident, too,
that she must be allowed as complete con-
trol over this money as over her own earn-
ings.
	There will still remain behind an enor-
mous number of cases which this law can-
not touch at all, because the women who
are so brutally ill-treated are not, by any
means, always the wives of their tormen-
tors. It it curious and pitiful to see how
many of these poor creatures are not bound
by any legal tie to their tyrants; who yet,
though they might leave them at any mo-
ment, forgive their brutalities, time after
time, and submit to ill usage without using
the means of liberation within their power.
It is clear that no improvement in the law
of husband and wife is applicable here—
we must look for a remedy in far deeper
causes—the removal of which is less easy,
but would be more permanently beneficial.
	The low consideration in which the law
has hitherto held women is in our opinion,
accountable for much of this barbarity.
The theory that a wife becomes her hus-
band’s property, in body, if not soul, acts
widely in depressing the condition of all
women, whether wives or not. To a rough
uneducated man, the woman is his inferior
in everything which he holds of value;
she has not his physical strength; she can
only earn half as much wages as he can,
the law still further controls her labor, as it
does that of her children; she has not a
vote, which represents to him not unlimit-
ed beer only, but a considerable degree of
dignity and importance at election times,
and moreover, the opinion of the upper
strata of society insensibly filters down, and
as with them, a woman has so long been as
a child, a plaything, or a waxen image,
immeasurably inferior to the active, rea-
soning worldly, matter-of-fact other half of
mankind, their low estimation of women
has become almost a part of the national
character. Our task must be to work slow-
ly against this by means of education, by
instilling a reverence for humanity which
shall cause all crimes of violence against
the weak, men, women, and children, or
animals, to be regarded as far outweighing
offences against property, which at the pres-
ent day are punished so much more vigor-
ously. Our lawgivers must by an absolute
equality of law put women on the same
level as men, so that they may rise in gen-
eral estimation, and their influence on the
gentler and tenderer side of human nature
may increase.
	This amendment in the law is practically
the same that Miss Cobbe suggested in her
powerful article, a few months ago, and we
may here remark that this, and other im-
provements which have taken place in the
condition of women within the last twenty


years, originated in the efforts of women
themselves, without which the old order
would not change, nor "give place to new."
—"Englishwoman's Review."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE EARLY WOMAN'S RIGHTS
CONVENTION.

	EDITORS' JOURNAL:—An article in your
issue of June 1, contains a mistake which
demands correction, a mistake which may
mislead future history. Whether the first
"Woman's Rights Convention the world
ever knew" was held in New York State
is beyond my knowledge. But the first one
that I ever heard of was at Seneca Falls,
Seneca Co., N. Y., called by Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth C. Stanton, Amelia Bloomer, and
others, in 1848.
	The first State Convention in Ohio was
in the spring of 1850, called by J. Elizabeth
Jones, Marianna Johnson, (wife of Oliver
Johnson) Marius Robinson and Emily Rob-
inson, Betsey Coles, Mary Gove and others,
at which I was not even present.
	I should have mentioned, in its right
place, that a four-column report of the Sa-
lem Convention was written by Oliver
Johnson, then editor of the "Anti Slavery
Bugle." which Horace Greeley received
and gladly published in full. This report
brought out, as her own words testify, in
the earlier pamphlets, the able essay of
Mrs. Stuart Mill on the "Enfranchisement
of Women."
	And here permit me to offer a merited
tribute to one of the earliest and strongest
of our noble band of pioneers.
	In the autumn of that year, the New Eng-
land women called a like Convention at
Worceter, Mass., which was largely attend-
ed and ably carried on by the prominent
reformers, women and men, of that day.
Lucy Stone, Paulina Wright Davis, Mrs. C.
I. H. Nichols, Abby K. Foster, also Wen-
dell Phillips, Elizabeth Oakes Smith, An-
toinette L. Brown, Harriott K. Hunt, Wil-
liam H. Cha[---]g, and numerous bright
lights of that time.
	In the spring of 1851, the Akron Con-
vention was called, at which I was present,
but had no other part in calling or carrying
it on, that I now remember, except being
its chosen president, and doing my ignor-
ant best in that capacity.
	Mrs. J. G. Swisshelm, Mrs. Celia Burr,
(afterwards our beloved C. M. Burleigh,)
Miss Sarah Coates, Mrs. C. M. Severance,
Mrs. H. M. Tracy (now Mrs. Cutler), Mrs.
Judge Tilden, Mary T. Corney, Mrs. Emma
R. Coe, and Sojourner Truth, with others
who called the Convention of 1850, made
the Convention brilliant and successful.
Four of the Hutchinson family, aided with
their stirring songs. Judson, John, Jesse
and Asa helped to fill the church, and many
young ears learned new gospels of liberty
never after forgotten.
	I earnestly wish some ready pen and good
memory would reproduce, with all their in-
terest, those early efforts in the great work
of equalizing the rights of the sexes. The
day will come when they will be called for.
A more clear, concise and full statement of
the disabilities of women under the law
was never given than the address of Mrs.
Jane Elizabeth Jones, made at the first Wo-
man's Rights Convention in Ohio, in 1850.
	FRANCES D. GAGE.
Vineland, N. J.—"Woman's Journal."


To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over, a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
FROM OVER THE SEA.

				LONDON, May 27, 1878.

	I write from the Athenæum Club, one of
the series of palaces which line Pall Mall,
and impress an American visitor with some
amazement. The Athenæum is the only
one among these which claims also an intel-
lectual reputation; it is the palace of men
of letters; their place of meeting, of re-
freshment, of study, of luxurious repose.
Its library reminds one of that of its name-
sake in Boston, though with an incompara-
bly grander hall. But there are also read-
ing-rooms, writing-rooms, smoking-room
and dining hall; it is, as it were, the Bos-
ton Athenæum and Tremont House thrown
into one; with a good many added luxuries,
every conceivable convenience for study,
delightful writing tables furnished with all
the elaborate English conveniences, a post-
office drop-letter box in every room, and
liveried servants always at hand. To this
is added the flavor of absolute privacy; no-
body can bring a guest beyond the entrance-
hall; but the committee may admit foreign-
ers not exceeding fifteen in number, as vis-
itors" for a month. Through the kindness
of friends, I find myself one of those now
enjoying this privilege. As in all palaces—
I suppose—you can make use of this for the
least or the greatest privileges; you can
come in to get a luncheon or a postage-stamp;
or you can come in for hours of study in the
library; or take your chance of meeting
Browning or Mathew Arnold or Huxley or
Hughes or Sir Henry Maine or Anthony
Trollope or many another who has before
been to you only a name on a title-page.
No spot in the world can offer to an Eng-
lish-speaking author such satisfactions. It
forms no small part, I should say, of the ad-
vantage of London residence to an author,
that he has this magnificent intellectual
headquarters, where he can meet authors or
students in all the departments, and can
compare notes on any subject with the men
who have most studied it. I wish I could
add that women share this advantage, but
they do not. There are clubs of less pre-
tentions to which women are, however, ad-
mitted; and I hope to visit some of these.
	I have had the pleasure of meeting in
London several of the leaders of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and have heard
speeches on the subject from Mrs. Fawcett,
Miss Becker, Miss Kerr, and others. All
that they said was extremely to the point,
and I was struck with the success with
which they met objections. They had per-
haps less grace and eloquence than some of
our speakers; and dealt, as in the English
way, more in facts than in abstract princi-
ples. They did not strike me as having
any other advantage; and I noticed that
they seemed less successful in drawing
men of high social rank to the movement
than some meetings which seemed quite
as radical—as for instance the "Sunday So-
ciety" for opening galleries, which mus-
tered two or three Earls without apparent
difficulty. I had also the great pleasure of
meeting in private Miss Helen Taylor, well
known to the readers of Stuart Mill, and to
hear her speak in very cordial terms of the
"Woman's Journal." She and Mrs. Miller,
whom I have also met, are active members
of the London School Board.

	Much interest has been inspired here by
the Besant trial, as a result of which, the cus-
tody of a little girl was assigned to the fa-
ther instead of the mother, on the ground
first, that the latter propagated atheistical
doctrines, and, secondly, that she had also
published a book, which the Judge on exam-

[Column 2]
ination, pronounced obscene and immoral.
I wish I had time to describe more fully the
trial—the little court-room, the bewigged
judge and lawyers; the fair, calm, gentle
young mother, only twenty-eight years old,
pleading for her child. She argued simply
and clearly, though she made, as I thought,
some palpably weak points; and her sweet-
ness under the abrupt interruptions of the
judges was something admirable. But the
judge though abrupt was not unkind; and
even the opposing lawyer showed far more
courtesy, I thought, than may often be
seen in an American Court. The final de-
cision seems severer in reading than it
sounded; and though the Judge (Sir George
Jessel) ruled against her on both points, he
plainly regarded her as a deluded, not as a
bad woman, and gave his decision with re-
luctance. One thing that added to the pic-
turesqueness of the scene was that it was a
Jewish judge, who on the Jewish Sabbath,
thus decided between a Christian husband
and an atheist wife. Another noticeable
thing was that he ruled against her, in the
interest of the child, not on the ground
that she was unfit to bring it up, but on the
rather characteristically English ground
that the social position of the child would
be impaired because of the prejudice
against the mother. I heard it well said
that this habit of reasoning would logically
lead to awarding any child to a parent who
was a Churchman rather than to a Dissent-
ing-parent. But the "Times" made the
most important admission when it said, the
next day, that the same reasoning would
have taken away Stuart Mill, as a child,
from the custody of his father, who brought
him up very much as Mrs. Besant brought
up her child; namely, not to disbelieve re-
ligion or to believe it, but simply to post-
pone it. And the "Times" said frankly
that the only possible point of distinction
was to say that the social position of a boy
would be less affected by the unpopular
opinions of a father than that of a girl by
those of a mother; a distinction between
the rights of the sexes which naturally
calls forth some protest.	T. W. H.
—"Woman's Journal.'


IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED
			STATES.

Mr. Wadleigh, from the Committee on
Priviliges and Elections, submitted the fol-
lowing report: To accompany bill S. Res. 12.

The Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
whom was referred the resolution (S. Res.
12) ropo[-]ing an amendment to the Consti-
tution of the United States, and certain pe-
titions for aud remonstra [-]ces against the
same, ma[-]e the following report;
This proposed amendment forbids the
United States or any State to deny or
abridge the right to vote on account of sex.
If adopted, it will make several millions
of female voters, totally inexperienced in
political affairs, quite generally dependent
upon the other sex, all incapable, of per-
forming military duty and without the pow-
er to enforce the laws which their numeri-
cal strength may enable them to make, and
comparatively very few of whom wish to
assume the irksome and responsible politi-
cal duties which this measure thrusts upon
them.
An experiment so novel, a change so
great, should only be made slowly and in
response to a general public demand, of the
existence of which there is no evidence be-
fore your committee.
Petitions from various parts of the coun-
try, containing by estimate about 30,000


names, have been presented to Congress
asking for this legislation.
	They were procured through the efforts
of woman-suffrage societies, thoroughly or-
ganized, with active and zealous managers.
The ease with which signatures may be
procured to any petition is well known.
The small number of petitioners, when
compared with that of the intelligent wo-
men in the country, is striking evidence
that there exists among them no general
desire to take up the heavy burden of gov-
erning, which so many men seek to evade.
It would be unjust, unwise, and impoli-
tic to impose that burden on the great mass
of women throughout the country who do 
not wish for it, to gratify the compartaively
few who do.
	It has been strongly urged that without
the right of suffrage women are and will
be subjected to great oppression and injus-
tice.
	But every one who has examined the sub-
ject at all knows that without female suf-
frage legislation for years has improved and
is still improving the condition of woman.
The disabilities imposed upon her by the
common law have, one by one, been swept
away until in most of the States she has the
full right to her property and all, or nearly
all the rights which can be granted without
impairing or destroying the marriage rela-
tion. These changes have been wrought
by the spirit of the age, and are not, gen-
erally at least, the result of any agitation
by women in their own behalf.
	Nor can women justly complain of any
partiality in the administration of justice.
They have the sympathy of judges and par-
ticularly of juries to an extent which would
warrant loud complaint on the part of their
adversaries of the sterner sex. Their ap-
peals to legislatures against injustice are
never unheeded, and there is no doubt that
when any considerable part of the women
of any State really wish for the right to
vote it will be granted without the inter-
vention of Congress.
	Any Senate may grant the right of suf-
frage to women. Some of them have done
so to a limited extent, and perhaps with
good results. It is evident that in some
States public opinion is much more strongly
in favor of it than it is in others. Your
committee regard it as unwise and inexpe-
dient to enable three fourths in number of
the States, through an amendment to the
National Constitution, to force woman suf-
frage upon the other fourth in which the
public opinion of both sexes may be strong-
ly adverse to such a change.
	For these reasons, your committee report
back said resolution with a recommenda-
tion that it be indefinitely postponed.


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, [-]th East Street, between South
and 1st So[-]th Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 10[-]9.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
				MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. H. Richa[-]d. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]rative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER [---] CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake: C


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG. 1, 1878. 			No. 5.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
THE GATES OF LIFE ARE OPENING.

Come thou with me, my daughter dear,
Out from these walls upbuilt by hands;
They hide, they hush, from eye and ear,
The changing pictures of the sky,
And the still voice that cometh near.

Beneath this leafy canopy,
Lighted by rising moon and star,
Stand thou, my daughter dear, with me,
And listen to the echo thrown
By all the world, anear, afar,
Though on the land, or on the sea.

What is the echo thou dost hear
In the pure silence of thy heart?
Nay, tremble not, my daughter dear,
'Tis but the answer to His call;
'Tis the farewell of those who part,
Of they, who saddest, linger here.

I hear it in the city's streets,
Below the city's mingled sounds;
And deeper, when the city sleeps,
The sleepless mourner's piteous cries,
Unhushed, relieve the heart's deep wounds,
In misery's dim, lone retreats.

Where goest thou, dear friend? Alas!
Thy heart is glad, thy hope is high;
Thou hurryest so quickly past,
Thou seest never, before, beyond,
How the dark tide of death flows nigh,
How it riseth, cruel and fast.

The dying maiden speaketh low
Where lover, weeping, bends his head:
Farewell, beloved! I loved thee so;
Forget me not, that we may keep
These vows of earth so vainly said,
And an immortal bridal know.

The stricken mother mourning bends:
Where her beloved unanswering lies;
All vain the love of fondest friends,
To soothe the heart's deep agony,
While memory's blessed visions rise,
And love's sweet labor hath its end.

The mother saith in tears, I go;
And sweet but for the thought of thee,
The rest in death, the weary know.
But ah! whose loving care shall lead
These little ones aright, for me?
Ah, let me stay! Death answers, No.

They are wending all the same, same way;
Behold! afar o'er all the earth
The nations don their last array;
Listen! the mournful requiems rise
Up from the nations' vacant hearths,
And the wrath of God still points the way.

Listen thou! O my daughter dear!
The roll of drums, the clash of swords,
These sounds of weeping in thine ear,
Change from sad farewells to all hail!
Behold the coming of the Lord,
Behold the reign of peace draws near.

Listen! thrones, kingdoms tottering,
And earth and sea all tremulous,
With thunderous voices, echoing,
Leaping to praise their Maker's name;
In speech majestic tell to us,
That this is Death's awakening.

Beloved, 'tis not the close of life,
Listen! these farewell cries shall change
To worship anthems; for all strife
Shall have an end; and at the cry
All flesh, shall at the summons strange,
Fainting, awake to deathless life.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, July 23, 1878.


Correspondents who use fictitious signa-
tures must send us their real names and
address, otherwise we cannot publish the
communications.


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	To those who may read this simple his-
tory of the private life of an individual, I
would say before entering upon any details,
or portraying incidents, can you understand,
my kind readers, what it is to be truly;
emphatically and undeniably old?
 To have the whole land cape of your past
life spread out to view; to trace in and out,
through the weary winding ways,
watch where the shadows fell and darkened;
to catch sometimes the dawn of unbroken
light, to rest after all, to feel you have be-
come unequal to the contest of life's strug-
gles, save as faith sustains you; to wait pa-
tiently, with a strong and ever growing
trust and perfect security, relying upon
the promises of Him "Who sees not as
we see."
To feel you have acquired a little insight
into the purposes of God in your creation;
with a firm hope and an unswerving faith
in the recompense of a fulness of glory
through obedience, more complete than
any earthly power can give; to rest con-
tented, waiting His time?  Can you realize
that these things are worth living for,
worth suffering for?  Can any sacrifice be
too great through which we are called to
pass, if we would follow in our Master's
footprints.
	In looking back over the years that are
past, and recalling vividly the incidents of
my earliest days, tracing the dim outlines
of the years now vanished, ere the powers
of life are too enfeebled, I feel attracted to
sit down and delineate some of its most in-
tricate mysteries, without any effort to
embody myself as a heroine, but clearly to
give a concise account of my unpretentious
life; beginning with its morning, repre-
senting myself truthfully, as I have lived,
through three quarters of a century, hav-
ing seen many of my cotemporaries and
some of my dearest friends pass out of
sight. In looking back, if there are any
principles which have given me strength,
and by which I have learned to live more
truly a life of usefulness, it seems to me I
could wish to impart this joy and strength
to others; to tell them what the Gospel has
been and is to me, ever since I embraced
it and learned to live by its laws.  A fresh
revelation of the Spirit day by day, an un
veiling of mysteries which before were
dark, deep, unexplained and incomprehen-
sible; a most implicit faith in a divine
power, in infinite truth emanating from
God the Father, the fountain from which
we must never depart into labyrinths of
our own, or other's seeking, if we mean to
conquer as individuals.
Our own little histories are replete with
this occasional darkness, which has been
left unexplained, through misunderstand
ings, discord and wrongs unrighted, and 
which we learn to endure through much
forbearance and forgiveness of injuries.
Human character is not immutable, but
capable of perfecting to an infinite growth;
do we not need, in such a world, faith in
God - a hope for man that has its founda-
tion in the principles of eternal truth?
(To be continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS, M. B. C. Slade, Fall River, Mass.
edits a monthly magazine, entitled "Good
Words."

	THE ECLIPSE of the sun by the moon.
Monday, July 29, was visible in this city
through smoked glass, or by reflection in
a looking-glass, from 40 minutes past 1
o'clock, p. m., for about one hour and three
quarters. The color of the sky was of the
darkest blue, and the sunlight golden and
mellow; the shadows resting beautifully,
like fairy work, wherever they fell. The
effect was almost like enchantment. The
peculiarity of the shades of light and shad-
ow on the mountain[-] Southeast of the city
was charming. The scene altogether was
most interesting.

	THE THIRD Decade Celebration of the
first Woman's Rights Convention, convened
in Rochester, pursuant to call, July 19.
It was held in the same church (Unita-
rian), which opened its doors to the
first Convention, in 1848. Amy Post, a
member of that first Convention, and who
is still living in Rochester, in connection
with Miss Anthony, had charge of the
arrangements. Friends from abroad were
entertained free of expense. By letter
from Miss Anthony we learn that the An-
niversary was most interesting. Many
veteran workers were present. As she
has mailed us copies of the Rochester pa-
pers, containing a full account of the pro-
ceedings, we will publish particulars in
our next issue.

	MRS. SARA J. Andrews Spencer of Wash-
inton, has entered into an editorial partner-
ship with Mrs. Juan Lewis, editor of "Wo-
man's Words," Philadelphia, Pa. The first
number, containing "Salutatory from the
pen of Mrs. Spencer, was issued July 1,
and contains a precise account of the argu-
ments and committee's report on the Six-
teenth Amendment Bill, which is very in-
teresting. During the next session of Con-
gress "Woman's Words" will be issued in
Washington, and will contain all that is
noticeable of the work done on the woman
question by that Honorable Body, and the
ladies who labor there in the interest of
their sex. These lady editors are women of
fine talent, excellent capabilities, and occu-
py enviable positions in society in the
world. They are laboring indefatigably to
aid and assist women in attaining a greater
degree of independence. The journal is
very neat in its appearance, and contains
much personal information of women en-
gaged in all the different pursuits of life.
On the front of each number there is a
woodcut of some noted lady, with a short
sketch of her life, which adds very much
to the merit of the journal as a source of
information; for in this way are we enabled
to preserve, with little expense, something
of the history of those who are truly
worthy.


CENSURE is the tax a man pays to the
public for being eminent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I expect you have never heard of Hold-
en Relief Society, or if you have it has
not been through any proper channel. I
thought it would be a good plan to try and
represent ourselves in a small degree. I
hope you may find some excuse for our
long silence, for I have none to make, but I
feel to begin now; the old adage "better
late than never" will apply to us very well.
	Our Society has not been dead, although
not represented; we have done considerable
in our way, such as relieving the poor,
when and where it has come to our knowl-
edge that such relief was needed, and also
in helping to build Temples and ga	ther the
poor from the nations as far as we have had
means to do so. The sisters all seem to
feel well, and almost without exception de-
sire to do their duty. We feel that the
Lord has blessed and prospered us in our
undertakings. We have a house in pro-
gress of erection, that will be an honor to
our Society when completed. We also
have a small Society Store in operation; it
has been running a little over one year; it
was started under Bro. Callister's counsel,
and so far it has proved a success. We are
also trying to obey President Young's coun-
sel to lay up wheat, but as this is not a
grain raising district we have our wheat to
buy, consequently the work goes on slowly,
yet we feel determined to do all we can in
this direction.
	We hold our working meetings twice a
month and our Sunday meetings once a
month. They are generally well attended,
and a good spirit prevails among us. Our
President and her Counselors are active and
energetic in the performance of their duty.	Hoping that we may be more punctual in
the future in reporting ourselves and in do-
ing all the duties that are required of us,
we pray that the blessing of God may rest
upon all the Relief Societies in these moun-
tains. We remain your sisters in the Gospel
of peace.
		FANNY N. JOHNSON, Counselor,
		JOANNA C. TEEPLES, Treasurer.

		LAKE TOWN, RICH Co., UTAH,
						July 4, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	"Procrastination is the thief of time,"—
so wrote one before me, and I can endorse
its truth; I ought to have represented our
Society to you before now. We were or-
ganized into a Relief Society Feb. 6, 1877.
We have a General Meeting the first Mon-
day in every month, a Teacher's Meeting
on the last Monday, and a Sewing Meeting
every alternate Thursday.
	The Saints here are not overburdened
with this world's goods, nothwithstanding
we feel it a substantial good to have a Re-
lief Society, for besides developing latent
good in the sisters and storing their minds
and memories, it is a help to our Bishop,
in relieving him of the care of the aged,
and sick, and poor. We have made a very
small beginning in storing grain. Bro.
Weston kindly offered us a bin in his gran-
ary, and we shall try to fill it.
	This is a very lovely place, everything
looks green and bright, and the lake, spread-
ing out northward as far as the eye can reach,
gives it character and beauty. I regret to
say the grasshoppers have been very busy
here in times past, and are even now show-
ing their appreciation for our tender lettuce,
&c. The frosts are not as severe here as

[Column 2]
formerly, and we hope to see the day when
we shall raise lots of fruit. We have now
plenty of gooseberries, currants, strawber-
ries, &c.
	A few years ago there were very few
young girls here, now there are quite a
number. We should be very glad to see a
Y. L. M. I. A. established among them;
they are good girls, and should have every
advantage calculated to benefit and improve
them.
	I am very respectfully yours,
			E. L. CROWTHER, Secretary.

	FAIRVIEW, SANPETE Co., July 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We hold our meetings once in two weeks,
and a spirit of union prevails. On the 24th
of June Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D.
Young of your city, Mrs. M. A. Hyde of
Spring City, and Mrs. Amelia Goldsborough
of Nephi, paid us a visit and held meeting.
The Spirit of God was poured out upon
them, and we had truly a time of rejoicing
in listening to the good counsel that flowed
from their lips. They were indeed wel-
come visitors, and we hope their first visit
will not be their last.
	Our financial condition is as follows:
Disbursements, To Manti Temple.........$50. 00
To Meeting House...................................  10. 50
To The Poor..............................................  17. 50
To Welsh Emigration...............................    7. 75
								      ———
		Total					       85. 75
Cash on hand...........................................  12. 80
We have stored for Zion 225 bu. of wheat.
We hold receipts for capital stock in Co-op
Tannery, $10. In Co-op Store, $197. 97.
In book entitled "Women of Mormondom,"
$25. We have also some socks and quilts
on hand.
	Wishing you all success in the good work
you have begun, and may God bless all His
faithful Saints, is the earnest wish of your
sisters in the Gospel.
	TELITHA AVERY,		}	Secretaries.
	LOIS ANN WILSON,	}

			LOGAN CITY, July 9th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	At our last annual meeting held June 5th,
the officers were re-elected. Elzabeth Ben-
son, President, Louisa B. Benson, and Lucy
Cardon, Counselors; also a President and
Counselors for each of the five Wards; un-
til now, there has been but little if any
change in the officers in the past four years.
Our meeting was attended by most of the
Bishops of Logan, who gave us good in-
structions.
	The report of the financial condition of
the Society was read, showing disburse-
ments to the poor for the past year, $142,65;
to Logan Tabernacle $143,35; to Logan
Temple, $63,95; cash on hand $101,55;
merchandise on hand, $107,65; share in Z.
C. M. I., $130. We have also one hundred
and fifty bushels of wheat. We hold gen-
eral meetings once a month, and meet in
each ward for working twice a month.
There are a number of sisters who take a
lively interest in the work, attending their
monthly and working meetings regularly.
	The EXPONENT is received in each
ward and read with pleasure.
			KENNIE BALLIF, Sec'y.

			GRANITE, SALT LAKE CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	The second Quarterly Report for the year
1878. We meet once in each month and

[Column 3]
proceed with our meeting in the usual
manner. All who attend meetings seem to
take a lively interest in them, and express
a determination to do all they can for the
advancement of this great work. Very
few take the EXPONENT, but they are de-
termined to subscribe for it, as it is a good
enterprize. We had an excellent treat on
the 19th. Sisters Horne and Heywood
were out here, and gave us some very good
counsel and instructions, as they always
do.
	The donations and disbursements for the
Quarter were as follows:
Received in Merchandize.......................$11. 20
	"	" Cash........................................    4. 35
								     ———
	Total						      15. 55
Disbursed in merchandise to poor.......    6. 30
Paid on quilt in Merchandise.................    1. 00
Disbursed in Cash to poor.....................       . 75
								      ———
	Total disbursed					 8. 05
Amount of this Quarter's donations
[-] on hand in cash and merchandize	 7. 50
Amount of last Quarter's donations
	on hand in cash and merchandize    3. 70
								      ———
		Total amount in Treasury	       11. 20

	Hoping this Report will be satisfactory,
I will say God bless you all, is the prayer
of your sisters,
	MRS. R. A. DESPAIN, President,
	MISS ELLA E. DESPAIN, Secretary.

			EPHRAIM, June 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Though somewhat tardy, on account of
inability to write through laming my hand,
I send you an account of our Quarterly
Conference as regards business matters.
The sisters meet every two weeks, and we
have splendid meetings. Our President,
Mrs. S. A. Petersen, is always on hand for
duty, and has a willing band of officers to
carry out her counsels, which are always
for the building up of the kingdom of God.

		REPORT OF RECEIPTS.

Monthly donations in sundries......$ 78. 55
Sunday eggs...................................... 109. 58
Cash donations for Wales..............     29. 42
For Scandinavian Mission...............     59. 58
For apple and mulberry trees........     41. 00
Means from parties.........................     40. 00
Quilts made......................................     23. 00
								 ———
		Total,					381. 13
Disbursements during Quarterly term, from
Feb 17, 1878, until May 17, 1878:

To the Temple in Manti, 45 yds.
	Linsey..........................................$ 38. 70
2 pairs Socks......................................     1. 00
2 pairs gloves.....................................     1. 30
1 pair mittens.....................................       . 25
Quilts...................................................   17. 00
								 ———
	Total,						  58. 25
To Scandinavian Mission.................. 167. 00
To Welsh Mission...............................   29. 40
To poor at home, in rent, provi-
	sions, bedding, fuel, graveclothes
	and cash......................................  115. 20
For mulberry and apple trees...........   41. 00
								  ———
	Total,						 400. 85
Still on hand, twelve yards of homemade
cloth, 800 bushels of wheat, and one share
in Co-op Store.
	Respectfully, your sister,
		AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
IN THE CANON.

With weary footsteps, wandering
	From busy s enes of life,
In solitude, deep pondering
	Lone thoughts with sadness rife,
We sought the cool, inviting shade
	The birch boughs gently threw
Along the bosom of the glade
	Begemmed with crystal dew.
Around, the wild-rose foliage swung,
	In summer's radiant green;
Above, the giant boulders hung
	To guard the gentler scene:
Before, the snow-fed mountain stream
	In silver beauty flowed,
Its breast reflecting every gleam
	Aurora's sun bestowed.
The morning, young and beautiful,
	Breathes music to the soul
Of him whose thoughts are dutiful
	To nature's mild control;
For us, her varied melody
	She played with smiling face,
The stream, in rippling harmony,
	Enhanced each tuneful grace,
And held her jeweled chalice forth
	And wooed us to the draught,
Distilled for hearts, though sad, whose worth
	Repaid what worth they quaffed.
We drained her cup, and wisdom smiled
	As peace her gentle sway
Resumed, and, by her voice beguiled,
	Pale sadness died away;
There surely is in quietude,
	Where rustic nature dwells.
For spirits lost in solitude,
	For pain that inward wells,
A source of comfort yielding balm—
	A mother's tender kiss,
That lays the troubled waters calm,
	And fills the soul with bliss.

Wednesday morning, July 24, 1878,	O. F. W.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
SHOULD WE GLEAN?

	It is to the daughters of Zion, to the faith-
ful, the humble, the meek and the lowly,
that I would appeal in favor of gleaning;
for none but such will value it as a privi-
lege to out in perhaps, a very warm sum-
mer day, and gather the golden heads of
grain left in the field.
	In the short time since the sisters were
first told to store up grain, a great amount
of breadstuff has been laid up, with which
fact, all who read the EXPONENT are well
acquainted. The readers of the EXPONENT
will also remember that our beloved and de-
parted Prophet, President Brigham Young,
in a meeting with the sisters at Ogden,
said "Let the sisters glean." It is not for
me to say who should glean, and who
should not, "Wisdom is justified by her
children," but sisters, let none of us think
that it doesn't mean us, if we possibly can
go.
	Some will say "I will rather give a bushel
of wheat, than go out to glean." That is a
very good substitute for gleaning, provided
you cannot go; but, it does not quite cover
the ground, sisters, unless such is the case.
The wheat we glean to store up for Zion, is
clean, pure, plump wheat; it is not taken
from our husbands' granaries; it is clear,
positive, real gain, at the same time we
yield obedience to the command of a kind
Heavenly Father. Let us, who know the
will of our Father, labor while yet it is day,
for no one knoweth how long Providence
will vouchsafe such bountiful harvests as
we have been permitted to reap for a suc-
cession of years. It has been spoken by
holy prophets, modern, as well as ancient,
that famine will smite the earth and its in-
habitants. And how often have we not
shrank from the mere thought of the terri-

[Column 2]

ble sufferings that are yet to come upon
blind, disobedient, ungrateful mankind.
	To those, (if any there be) whose hands
are so soft, white and tender, that their
owners feel as if they can not possibly ex-
pose them so, or, they have not been
"raised" to do such work, I would say read
the beautiful little story, of a few months
back, in the EXPONENT, entitled "Two
pairs of hands." Let us all re-read, if we
do not remember, such spirited, inspiring
articles as "Sisters be in earnest," and
"The Grain Question," and not allow our-
selves to forget that the time is short, and
getting shorter every day in which to pre-
pare for the great day of the Lord's ven-
geance.
	The history of storing grain by the Re-
lief Society of this place, commenced in
'75, under the most favorable auspices.
Our Bishop made it a topic for public
speaking in our Sabbath meetings, by him-
self and the leading brethren, till in a few
weeks everybody in town was familiar
with it, and the way was paved for the sis-
ters whose duty it became to gather dona-
tions for Zion's Relief Fund. With all our
available means, except twenty-five dol-
lars with which we purchased a share in
the publication of the Woman's Book, we
bought up wheat; the brethren and sisters
all donating liberally, besides, soon swelled
the pile. And when the idea of gleaning
by the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
was mentioned, our Bishop called for vol-
unteers at every Sabbath meeting as long
as gleaning was kept up, to take the glean-
ers to the field and back, which was re-
sponded to by many of our brethren, the
bishop attending in person several times,
making us feel that they took a lively be-
coming interest in the endeavors of the
sisters. Those who volunteered to convey
the gleaners, met at the place appointed, at
8 o'clock, a. m., twice a week, and shortly
after we rolled out of town a very happy
company. We did not "stand," nor indeed,
"sit" on ceremonies, but we did sit down
on our empty sacks which, filled in the
evening, with headings afforded us very
comfortable seats. After gleaning from
9 till 12 a. m., we availed ourselves of the
"squatters right," and how we did enjoy
our dinner! The good things brought by
the sisters who had plenty, were freely di-
vided with those who had less, making
the nooning a very enjoyable affair. We
knew very well it would be naughty to lay
down the farmer's lucerne, and empty his
cellar for milk, so we did not do it. And
though we enjoyed our dinner immensely,
we did not forget that gleaning was object
number one, of which our well filled sacks
bore ample evidence.
	One of our most delicate and refined sis-
ters went out with us and gleaned, quite
sure of a severe headache, and on returning
home, told us with becoming pride, that
she had had no headache, and said she, "I
thought gleaning was something so hard,
so different from what it is."
	I have no doubt that gleaning would be
very hard to carry on to any great extent,
if the brethren did not give it their sup-
port if the gleaners were left to walk to
the field, and carry their filled sacks home,
after eight or nine hours gleaning; if the
gleaners were a small minority, instead of
a great majority of the sisters, old and
young of a place; if they were scoffed at,
instead of honored, encouraged and sup-
ported in it. By gleaning too many hours
a day, and too many days a week, it be-
comes irksome. But it takes faith, hope
and charity to glean for Zion.

[Column 3]

	May God bless those who have gleaned,
those who will glean hereafter, and those
who would cheerfully glean if they but
"could," and all who lend their influence
and efforts to the great object of filling the
store-houses of the Lord.
							H. M.
Gunnison, July. 1878.


For the EXPONENT.
 	THERE IS MUCH TO LEARN.

	I do not know if my few scattering 
thoughts may be worthy of a place in your
valuable paper. This morning I have been
reading an article in the EXPONENT, on
Jacob's pillar, by your much esteemed cor-
respondent, Mrs. Hannah T. King, and
cannot help exclaiming, how little we
know. I am an English woman, visited
Westminster; why certainly walked on the 
stone around the Coronation Chair, and not
until within an hour did I know tradition
said that stone was the identical pillar Ja-
cob rested his head on when he was blessed
with the Almightly sending his angel to
minister unto him. How true the saying
the older we grow in this kingdom, the less
we know, there is so much to learn and
sometimes we are so hard to acquire it.
This is an age of fashion, fault-finding and
nonsense, or shall I say seemingly so;
for Satan feels his time is short, and is
throwing his nets around us in every di-
rection seeking whom he may devour. Be-
sides he feels the Priesthood his Master, is
fully aroused, and understanding his wiles
is busy stopping every gap; yet a little
while and he will find himself thwarted.
Have not the prophets of old written that
God's people would be willing in the day of
His power? to do what? serve him truly,
loyally. That day is nigh at hand, and 
many, many are waiting and watching.
The masses of our people are earnest, even
those who seemingly are careless and in-
different to the interests of the kingdom;
probe them to the quick, they are sound
on the gospel. My sisters, let us watch and
pray that God will bless us, that the young, 
our darling children, when weighed in the 
balance will not be found wanting. If it
were in my power, I for one, as a fond,
foolish mother, would e'en bear every trial 
that my children might walk in the paths
of comfort and blessings. Bnt that, we
parents have to learn must not be, 'twould
rob them of the crowns of glory they
would have if proved faithful. I read, and
see a great deal of folly in regard to ex-
travagance in dress, furbelows, trails and
all the formula of fashion is in our midst.
Cannot we middle-aged sisters lay aside
every form of dress except that which is
neat, economical, pleasant to the eye and
comfortable to the wearer. If we do this,
our  footsteps, wisdom will assume her
power over us, and we may soon become
what we desire, a pattern to all nations. 
May God bless us to that end, is the prayer
of your co laborer. B. M.
	Richmond, Cache Co., July 16th, 1878.


Marriage is a most sacred and solemn ordi-
nance; it should never be esteemed lightly.
The days of life are many, and diversities
of circumstances sorely try all—prosperity
as well as adversity has its peculiar disad-
vantage, and too much care cannot be tak-
en in cultivating and developing affection
after marriage, that the strength of affec-
tion may overcome all trials and unite
truly those who are made one by the priest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.	
	Exponent Office Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. AUG. 1, 1878.


THE APPROACHING ELECTION: On Monday
Aug. 5th inst. the sisters who are qualified vot-
ers should deposit their votes in the respective
precincts to which they belong, making prop-
er use of the "elective franchise," which has
been conferred upon the women of this Terri-
tory,and which should be held as a sacred right,
never at any time esteeming lightly the oppor-
tunity given through this, of representation.
The Hon. Mr. Courtney, member of the House
of Commons, in a speech before that Honora-
ble body June 19, 1878, upon women holding
office,said, "We must look at results in order to 
arrive at just conclusions, and of all the reports
made of the effect of women holding responsi-
ble positions, the evidence proves that woman
has performed her work creditab[-]y and thor-
oughly; one instance only to the contrary, and
the only testimony which could be produced,
when the question was asked, why was it not
successful, was "Because," which being inter-
preted, meaneth no reason at all.


[Column 1]
WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	It is becoming self evident that woman's
sphere of usefulness is enlarging, and whereas
in the past, women have only had domestic
duties to attend to, many are now called upon
to fill positions of honor and trust in the vari-
ous callings and avocations of life. Th[-]s is to
a certain extent as yet only experimental,
though in some professio[-]s women alr[-]ady ex-
cel in skill and proficiency. There are to be
sure many records of women of the past, who
took an active part in the different callings
usually allotted to men; yet these are consid-
ered exceptional, and cannot be taken as evi-
dence of the capabilities of the sex in general.
Therefore it is well for the women of the nine-
teenth century to be able to stand upon their
own real merits, and not pride thems[-]lves up-
on others, however illustrious they may have
been. What the women of to-day are capable
of doing now, is the question, not what th[-]ir
grandmothers or ancestry did do. This is an
age of di[-]covery, invention and progression.
And admitting that fact, is woman to be ex-
clud[-]d? Would it be fair that man should ad-
vance to a higher plane and woman remain
"In statu quo?" such ideas are inconsistent.
Notwithstanding all the arguments against the
equality of sex, suffrage, and women's filling
any public calling or office, yet every year
steady advances are made in this direction,
and the current of public opinion is changing
tone perceptibly.
	Women are proving the ground they take by
practical demonstration. The good results [-]f
any move is the best proof that can be given,
and is, anybody prepared to say woman has
not m[-]de proper use of the Suffrage? And if
she has been judicious and wise after voting

[Column 2]
six consecutive years she is surely competent
to hold such offices as under the "laws and stat-
utes" woman is eligible to be elected to. The
recent move made in this city of electing lady
delegates to the County Convention calls forth
remarks upon the subject of woman's capabili-
ities, sphere and duties; and doubtless will
awaken much latent thought in the minds of
both men and women, and by the exchanging
of ideas many who had previously given little
consideration to the matter, will receive new
light and come to a better understanding of
woman's true position and relative [-]ssociation
with man in all that concerns the public, po-
litically, socially, and religiously. It seems to
us very contradictory to talk of woman's in-
fluence in promoting the best interests of hu-
manity, and in the same breath declare her
total[-]y unfit to stand by man in a poli[-]ical
sense.
	It would almost lead one to think that there
was so much intrigue and deceit practised, that
men were afraid of exposure, else why are
they unwilling that women should mingle in
politics? If it is because women [-]re really un-
qualified and incompetent then what need to
oppose it, is any body going to push people in-
to office that have not requisite qualifications?
Why be afraid of the Suffrage for women?
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has been
of efficacy in leading people to examine the
subject of representation and government
more thoroughlily, and thus become better in-
formed in relation to general interest. In this
community women who never before gave any
thought to public duties, have, since the Suf-
frage was extended to them, seen for them-
selves the benefits derived from an understand-
ing of even such general principles as it is pos-
sible for the most ordinary-minded to compre-
hend. If women have not been competent to
use the franchise intelligently in times past,
they are so now, generally speaking, and are
becoming more so all the time. The great im-
provements being constantly made develop
woman's attributes as well as man's, and as
knowledge increases so does power, and this is
true with individuals as well as communities,
and where there is power of mind there will
be practical results. Woman has been, and is
doing all she is called upon, or allowed to do in
education and improvement; in short in every
department where she is permitted to work.
For this reason we believe it is unjust for her
to be deprived a claim for recognition by the
right which men citizens enjoy, viz. the el[-]c-
tive franchise. The American people profess
to believe in a representative government; then
if all classes are to be represented, why not wo-
men represent themselves. It cannot be said
that women have not aided in every place
where they have labored in public inte[-]ests,
and certainly their v[-]ry womanliness, their
strong material aff[-]cti[-]ns would natural[-]y lead
them to seek the best methods of ensuring
peace, and to abolish the use of liquor and oth-
er stimulants that destroy home, life and happi-
ness, at well as ruin the body and soul of their
sons and husbands. These are some of the
most potent agents in moving women to inter-
cede and plead for the Suffrage. They have
tried, it would seem, all other methods to save
these dear to them, and they have been
wrought upon most strongly by the condition
in which the country is, in relation to the sale
of alcohol and its evil consequences. You may
say every woman has not this to actuate her,
but if every woman has not, nine tenths we
may say in safety have either son, husband,
father, brother, or friend who is a slave to that
terrible foe to human [---] and happiness and
the immortal soul.

[Column 3]
	To the women of to day opportunities are
constantly presenting themselves, men are be-
coming educated in the idea of woman's pro-
gression and realize her efficient help; old bar-
riers are being removed one by one, the iron
walls of custom are crumbling away, and the
idols of old tradition are being dethroned by
new innovations. The people are advancing
rapidly towards the marvelous changes which
have b[-]en predicted by ancient and modern
prophets, and these changes involve the inter-
ests of women quite as much as men; and wo-
man must act her part and not shrink from
duty in the great programme. Woman will
learn in time that there are other duties than
domestic ones to be performed, for in all that
concerns man, she must take an active part.
Let her seek wisdom for her guide and abide
in the counsel of the Almighty, and s[-]e n[-]ed
not fear to step forward wherever, and when-
ever the occasion requires it, and let her pre-
pare herself so well, that she will be able to
perform creditably any work which may be
given her either in public or private life.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received through courtesy of
Prof. J. R. Park, Principal of the Deseret Uni-
versity, the Circular containing items of inter-
est concerning this institution. The Univer-
sity was founded in 1850, and was conducted
after the manner of a Commercial College; but
since 1869 it has been fully organized as an In-
stitution for Scientific and Classic Instruction.
It is divided into three departments, Prepara-
tory, Normal and Academic. The Academic
year is divided into four terms; the first term
will commence August 19th. This Institution
is ably conducted by Dr. Park and his assist-
ants Professors Toronto and Kingsbury.
	THE GRAND Twenty-Fourth of July, the
anniversary of that "day of days," has past
over for another year; and among the amuse-
ments upon that occasion we would make
special mention of the "matinee" in the Thea-
tre, as it was a very enjoyable affair fer the lit-
tle folks and elder ones, and was designed to
serve two very worthy purposes; while it af-
forded innocent recreation, the money expend
ed will serve a grand and holy purpose, in as
sisting to build a house for divine worship.
We commend the Committee in so estimable a
project, and congratulate them upon its com-
plete success. The house was more than
crowded, and the applause was almost "terrif-
ic," but then, such manifestations of mirth
and hilarity are expected on such occasions.
We tender thanks to the Committee for Com-
plimentary Tickets received.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" has recently
moved into a new office built just west of the
residence of the Hon. George Q. Cannon,
where it was formerly published. The build-
ing stands on East Temple Street and is near
the railroad depot, so that its business facilities
as regard locality are excellent. The front
room is nicely fitted up for business, and there
for sale are all the standard Church Books al-
so complete volumes of the "Juvenile Instruc-
tor," neatly bound. The composing room is
behind the front office, and is a very pleasant
large room, suitable for work; an attic above
serves to store away paper and other things
used in an establishment of this sort. This
cellar which is high in the ceiling is used
for the press, and is pleasant, door opening to
the north, with large windows and every ac-
commodation necessary for the labor. Anoth-
er basement room under the front office is used
as a store-room as the "Juvenile" takes p[-]o


[Column 1]
duce of different kinds on subscription.  The
little paper is ably edited and contains many
excellent things suitable for people of all ages
as well as children.  It should be in every fam-
ily in the Territory, but more especially where
there are children.  We congratulate our fra-
ternal friends at the Juvenile Office in hav-
ing so commodious an office of their own, and 
trust that the patronage of this community
may enable the EXPONENT to do likewise.
	THE PRIMARY Meetings in the Five Pre-
cincts in this city, convened Monday evening
in the respective localities.  The delegates to 
the County Convention from each Precinct
were chosen in the usual order, except by
nominating ladies as delegates.  This gave
rise to some argumentation in one precinct al-
though in the other two where ladies were
chosen no remarks were made.  As this is a 
new departure from old-fashioned customs, it
will of course, call forth criticism and ridicule
as all innovations do; but it will be one more
experiment bearing upon the question of wo-
man's capabilities.  Our space will not per-
mit us to publish all the proceedings of the 
meetings or the names of all delegates but will
only name the ladies chosen: Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Mary
P. Freeze, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Alter
nates, Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Hannah T.
King, Mrs. Sarept[-] M. Heywood, Mrs. Harriet
C. Mo[-]ris, M[-]s. Prisc[-]lla M. Staines.  In the
Second Precinct where some remarks were
made against women holding public offices,
Mrs. Horne made some very shrewd allusions
to women of the Scriptures, mentioning Deb-
orah who judged Israel forty years "and there
was peace in the land." 
	SOMETHING NEW: The Salt Lake County
Convention, met pursuant to call at the Court
House Saturday July 27, at 11 o'clock, a. m.
Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Central Commit-
tee, called the meeting to order, W. W. Riter
was elected temporary president, and David
McKenzie temporary secretary.  A committee
on credentials was appointed, their report re-
ceived, committee discharged.  The creden-
tials showed all the precincts were rep[-]esented
except Little Cottonwood, Bingham, Sandy,
Silver, Granger and Pleasant Grove.  Roll
called showing all the delegates were present
but three.  The Convention was hen perma-
nently organized with Hon. John Sharp, Pres
ident, Joseph Rawlins, and Alexander Hill,
Vice Presidents David McKenzie and Em-
meline B. Wells, Secretaries.  George H. Tay-
lor; Chaplain, and Peter Reid, Sergeant at-
arms The Convention then opened by pray-
er.  A committee of nine was first appointed
on nominations.  J. R. Winder, J. Booth,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Henry Arnold, Frank
Armstrong, W. Lemon, A. W. Smith, A. Hill,
S. Bennion were appointed by the chair.
	While the Committee retired for consulta-
tion, speeches were made by the Chairman
Messrs. John T. Caine, David McKenzie and 
A. H. Raleigh.  The Committee returning pre-
sented their report which was received and 
they were discharged.  Among the names re-
ported for office was a lady for County Treas-
urer:  The Convention voted on the nomina-
tions separately.  All the men were elected to
office, but when the lady's name was brought
before the Convention, the question was asked
as to the eligibility of ladies to hold office un-
der the present statutes of the Territory.  Re-
marks were made upon the subject by both
gentlemen and ladies, a copy of the Compiled
Laws of Utah was brought and it was found
the word "male" citizens, instead of simply
citizens, was the only legal objection against

[Column 2]
ladies holding office.  A motion was made
by the Secretary David McKenzie that a vote
of confidence be given to the lady candidate,
and the sense of the Convention be expressed
to the effect that but for the Territorial Stat-
utes d[-]claring ladies ineligible to office in
Utah the nomination would have been sus-
tained by the Convention.
	The nominations made for Justi[-]es of the 
Peace and Constables in the several precincts,
were read and adopted.  The Convention then
discussed the subject of paying for tickets for
the coming election, as the County Court made
no provision for more than Ballot Boxes, en-
velopes and stationery.  On motion of W. W.
Riter, the nominees for office were declared to
be the proper persons to pay for the printing of
tickets.  The Convention decided that the
Central Committee were authorized to fill any
vacancies which may occur on the ticket
through any of the present nominees declin-
ing to act.  The names of the Peoples Central
Committee for Salt Lake Co. were read, and as
they were all residents of Salt Lake City, it
was decided to nominate four, from precincts
outside the city, which was done and four of 
the names of the present number withdrawn
in their favor.  Mrs. Wells moved that three
ladies names be added to the Committee; the
Chairman put the question to the Convention
and gave the lady delegates the privilege of 
nominating.  Mrs. Mary P. Freeze then nomi-
nated as members, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and the motion
was unanimously carried.  The business of the 
Convention being concluded a vote of thanks
was tendered to the Chairman and a motion
made for adjournment "sine die."  Closed with
prayer by the Chaplain.
	We feel that a decided step has been taken
in favor of woman's advancement during this
Convention and we tender our cordial thanks
to the gentlemen of the Convention for their 
cou[-]tesy and liberality on the subject, as we
realize that a new era is dawning upon the 
world, in which woman, as well as man must
take an active and prominent part, and they
cannot be too mutually helpful in all that per-
tains to the interests of both.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	THERE has been a time of general sorrow
here in Ephraim and Mayfield, and it seemed
providential that our dear Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Zina D. Young came just at that
time with comforting words of hope, soothing
and consoling the bereaved parents and friends.
On Saturday, June 22d, a party of young peo-
ple, thirteen in number, eight of them only
children in years, took a pleasure trip in a
boat on a small lake near here. A sudden
squall of wind came up so furious that it up-
set the boat and two only were saved of its in-
mates.
	From Mayfield, Olivr Oviatt and his wife
Rosabella, eldest daughter of Harden and
Margaret Whitlock; Abagail Stevens, daugh-
ter of Joseph and Abagail Stevens; Noral Neil-
son, oldest child of Christian and Sena Neil-
son; Sarah Williams, daughter of John and
Christina Williams; William Henry Jensen,
son of Henry and Christina Jensen. From
Ephraim, Melinda Anderson, daughter of Jens
and Lena Anderson, Lizzie Thomson Ballon,
daughter of Jens and Annie Thomson Ballon;
George Larsen, son of James and Kerstine
Larsen; Charles Christieson, son of Anton and
Lena Christiesen; Lizzie Andersen, daughter
of Lars and Marin Andersen, a sweet, bright,
beautiful girl, who always reminded one of a


rift of sunshine. These two Charles and Liz-
zie, were betrothed and were buried in the
same grave. Sisters Snow and Young blessed
and comforted those bereaved, and their visit
will long be remembered, with blessing by the
sisters in Ephraim. This sad affair has cast a
gloom over the people, and yet when we think 
[-]hat,

'Life might have sunk, a long disease,
	Or falsehood's breath have stained their fame
Or passion's hopeless agonies,
	Have smote their bosoms like a flame;
But now, upon their living glance
	Are sights which earthly glories dim,
Earth lost in the sublime expanse,
	All nature one majestic hymn.
Then, shall we for their glory weep,
	And grieve them with our idle fears?
Love was not born in tombs to sleep,
	In realms of light we'll find it there.'

		AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


A FEW MINUTES WITH THE
DEAD.

Your dear little rose-bud has left you
	To bloom in a holier sphere,
He who gave it, in wisdom bereft you.
	Then why should you cherish a tear?—E. R. SNOW

	It was on a cloudy Autumn day in the year
1871. For a few minutes I was alone with the
dead—a bright little blue-eyed child. He lay
in an elegant black coffin. His cheeks were as
red as they had been before life became ex-
tinct. He had died without sickness. One
minute previous to his death he was seen play-
ing around the door in his usual manner, full
of life and in the bloom of health, the next
minute he was a corpse.
	It is only these who have been bereft of
loved ones that can truly imagine the feelings
of a parent who has been called to mourn the
loss of a dear departed one.
	How quiet and solemn everything seemed.
No noise. Nothing to be heard but the tick-
ing of the clock. I gazed upon my darling
again and again. He looked so life-like that I
bent my head down to see if I could hear him
breathe. No, there was not the least sign.
Recollections of the past came vividly to my
mind. Then I asked myself the question, "Is
it not a dream?" I could hardly believe it was
true; but nevertheless it was so—it was too
true. I looked again upon those life-like, red
rosy cheeks and those pretty blue eyes, and
whilst gazing upon his lovely form, I solilo-
quized to myself: "Take away from me all I
possess, turn me out into the streets, without
home, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing, without friends, with but enough cloth-
ing to cover my nakedness, only give me back
the darling I so dearly loved, and I'll not mur-
mur; I'll not complain, but raise my heart to
Him who reigns above with thankfulness and
gratitude, and praise His holy name." "The
Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away,
blessed be the name of the Lord."
	In an elevated part of the Salt Lake Ceme-
tery can be seen a large number of graves of
children who died in infancy, amongst which
rest the remains of the loved one spoken of,
and the following is part of the inscription on
the grave-board:
	"Died from drinking benzine oil in mistake
for water." R. A.
	S. L. City, July 18, 1878.


Tapioca Pudding: Put eight tablespoonfuls of
tapioca to three pints of milk and let it get milk-
warm, soaking it till it is soft, then mix with it
two spoonfuls of butter, three eggs well beaten,
half cup of s[-]gar, half a nutmeg and bake imme-
diately. This pudding is good either hot or cold.


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house.		*
*			We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C. 
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845,
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room	*	*	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillnnss that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so.	*	*
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
				Lovingly,
						LOUIE WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BELLE HARRIS AND BABY.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I am brim full of contempt and disgust at
the actions and rulings of the grand jury,
prosecuting attorney and judges, the whole heap
of them, Senator Edmunds included; and if
you can find or imagine any words which can
more fully express my contempt consider them
said. It is a disgracs to the whole nation the
way they are abusing that noble woman, Belle
Harris and her baby. Never glory in being an
American citizen again. I was born in Englandl
so I wont have to share the odium that is fast
making the United States a hiss and a bye word
amongst the Monarchial Governments of the
world. Don't talk about the Spanish Inquisition
or the Star Chamber after this abuse of an inno-
cent woman. If the United States are not in-
augurating a religious persecution against the
Latter-day Saints I am mistaken; (I know I am
not) they have taken the right of franchise for
doing that which was not an offence at the
time of commital; they drag women and babes
from their homes and put them in prison with-
out trial of any kind, because they refuse to
answer impudent questions; granting, for the
sake of argument, that she is a plural wife and
has children in the marriage relation, which I
don't know anything about never having seen
the lady, what right have they to make her
criminate herself; is this just? They would for-
bid such a question to a murderer or a bank rob-
ber, but she, poor thing, is a Mormon, that
makes all the difference. There is something
said in the Declaration of Independence, (a
noble instrument), about worshiping God ac-
cording to the dictates of our own conscience,
and "taxation without representation." Oh!
but that don't mean you Mormons, Oh no! "We
the Federal officials, have power under the Ed-
munds Law to persecute you until you bend
your consciences to our august will. We, the
Federal officials, under the Edmunds Law, will
blot out of your souls every religious sentiment
that is obnoxious to the minority who dwell in
Utah; we mean to pop all women into the Peni-
tentiary who have children in the marriage rela-
tion that we don't approve of; we will confiscate


all your property that we desire, with or without
law; we will degrade your children all we can;
we will heap insult on insult upon you until
you revold, then we will call on the military to
exterminate you; mobs have killed your prophets,
your men, women and children before, and may
do so again. The American Nation is a great
nation, but you are only a handful of poor de-
luded foold; we are going to get rid of you now;
you have made this country so that we can live
in it, and we intend to have it for us and the
minority to dwell in."
	Yes, you have done these things, and more;
you have insulted and imprisoned our best men,
women and children, and will continue to do so
until the Lord says, enough. Then woe, woe,
unto you, for the plagues, sorrows and desolation
that will fall on you and follow your footsteps
wherever you may go; you shall see your dear-
est hopes blasted and come to naught, and the
cup of sorrow you are pressing to the lips of the
Latter-day Saints you shall drain to the dregs,
for it is your wages; the measure you give you
shall receive.					MARY.
	Grantsville, July 27th, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE; Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh after they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


not. What do some of the guardians of
our public morals in the centre of this great
Republic do? They try to conceal villainy
in its worst forms, and they come out to
Utah and exclaim in holy horror against
Plural Marriage. "O Consistency! what a
jewel thou art!" What do some of our
would-be friends come here for? Not to
save and elevate woman, not to promote
virtue and chastity. No; but to defile and
destroy and lead astray the young and un-
wary. And if they are thwarted they say
we are so exclusive; would to God we were
more so, that we could keep the daughters
of Zion from evil influences. Men of the
world come into our midst with their oily
tongues, beautiful language, genteel man-
ners and polished appearance outwardly,
and it is a very easy matter to lead away
the unsuspecting. Who is to blame?
Fathers and mothers sometimes; they love
their daughters so much that they do not
like to cross them in their love matters,
they are afraid they will be unhappy, that
it will blight their lives, and so they suffer
them to marry men who are destitute of
principle and the Spirit of God, and find
too late that their lives are ruined, they
are more wretched than they could possibly
have been to remain single, or marry good
men with large families already, who were
following out the revelations of God given
in this last dispensation, and seeking to ob-
tain celestial glory by keeping the laws
pertaining thereto. Parents do not instruct
their daughters sufficiently in the conse-
quences of forming improper attachments,
do not throw around them the safeguards
that will form sure protection against in-
sidious influences. Step by step, little by
little are the inroads made that finally re-
sult most perniciously on the lives of some
of our young. Much more could be said
on this subject, but let this suffice. One
word more: Who are our daughters' present
Guardian Angels? I think their mothers
are, or ought to be. Then let us as moth-
ers in Israel rise up in our dignity and be
ever vigilant in the discharge of our duty,
leaving no loophole for the enemy to enter.
Teach our daughters that virtue and honor
are priceless, and that in obedience to pa-
rents there is safety.

			ISABELLA PRATT WALTON.
	Mill Creek, July 18, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39﻿


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., July, 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking that a few items from this un-
usually quiet place would be acceptable, we
take the liberty of sending you a few
lines.
	Our Relief Society has been in existence
ten years, and, to many of its members, it
has been a great blessing in the many op-
portunities it has furnished for pure and
unalloyed enjoyment of the blessings of
the gospel, and in the sweet communion of
the Holy Spirit of promise that cheers and
blesses the saints of God, and in the many
opportunities that have been afforded of
cheering the needy, and comforting the
weary. Our Society now numbers ninety-
eight members, many of whom are fully
alive to the duties of the hour. We have
now on hand three hundred and fifty-four
bushels of wheat, as a beginning of our
stores towards a time of need; we have al-
so made two hundred pounds of good
cheese, have donated fifty-four dollars to
the Temple this year, from the Sunday
eggs that the sisters have saved, also fifty-

[Column 2]
one dollars in cash for the same purpose,
and over one hundred dollars in clothing
for workmen on the Temple. We have
been blest in being able to aid that worthy
cause. To the Welsh Emigration Fund we
have donated twenty-eight dollars, and
have yet a nice amount on hand for the
benefit of the needy, and for the carrying
out of the purposes of our organization. It
certainly seems as if our little stores were
blessed and increased like the widow's
meal of old, and we can but thank the Giv-
er of all good, for the many manifestations
of His goodness towards us.
	We all felt greatly blessed and strength-
ened by the late visit of our beloved sis-
ters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young;
their words were sweet and consoling; we
desire to carry out their counsels, and pray
heaven to bless them and continue their
days of usefulness with us, and also upon
Sisters Amelia Goldsborough of Nephi, and
M. A. P. Hyde of Spring City who accom-
panied them.
	Perhaps we trespass, but we cannot close
without tendering our meed of praise to
you, for your noble efforts in our Father's
cause; in your many and arduous labors in
conducting the ever fresh and cheering
EXPONENT, which is indeed an exponent
of the views, feelings and aspirations of
Utah's noble women.
	We remain your sisters etc,
			JANE BAILEY, Pres't.
			SUSAN CHRISTENSEN, Sec'y.

		FOUNTAIN GREEN, July 8th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have been honored of late with a visit
from our much beloved Sisters E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and M. A. P. Hyde, we thought
worthy to report an interesting meeting
held here. The people of this place were
notified that the sisters of this place would
be with us. A goodly attendance assem-
bled together of the Relief Society and the
Young Ladies' Association, also many of
the brethren, and an interesting time was
enjoyed by all. After the usual ceremo-
nies of singing and prayer and introducing
these sisters by the President of the So-
ciety, Miss E. R. Snow expressed much
pleasure in being with us, and in seeing so
many brethren present as we needed their
co-operation in our labors. Spoke of the
divided interests of the people of the
world, compared them with our united in-
terests. Spoke on the organization of the
Relief Society; that every sister who had
her name enrolled in this kingdom, should
become a member of it, and was required
to be a live active one; that Joseph Smith
said that this organization was designed to
help the Bishops relieve the poor, and to
save souls; and it was an organization of
the kingdom of God. Said many thought
we should be judged by our motives, but
our motives lead us on to actions, and by
our actions we shall be judged. That
many a sister thought that if she did not
live her religion, her husband would save
her, but our reward will be according to
our works. Told the mothers to watch over
their children from their earliest days, and
as soon as they were baptized, have them
join an organization that while their minds
were pure they might continue to grow up
in the knowledge of the things of the
kingdom. Said let the mothers arrange
their work so that when meeting time
comes they may not be hindered from at-
tending, and set them good example[-], for
they were watching us, and it was [-]mall
things that ruined the character, "The lit-
tle foxes spoil the vines." She counseled

[Column 3]
parents not to let their daughters go to
Salt Lake City to hire out. Said she did
not consider herself any better than we
were, but had had a great deal more ex-
perience. Joseph Smith said that the Re-
lief Society was designed to perfect wo-
man and correct the morals. Every wife
that was living up to her duty should be a
counselor to her husband, not a dictator; we
have set out for a fulness of exaltation in
the kingdom of God, and we are heirs
of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
Did not like to see the sisters wear sun-bon-
nets, would like to see their countenances;
wanted us to have a class of braiders that
had stamina enough to persevere in siraw.
work and let the sisters wear hats; liked to
see them look beautiful, but not follow af-
ter the fashions of Babylon. Spoke on
home manufacture, of winter and summer
wear. Said if we planted out mulberry
trees in faith the Lord would bless us so we
could raise them, as he had done others in
some of the northern settlements. Was
glad to hear we had some grain stored, as
famine was sure to come for the Lord had
decreed it; wanted us to raise beans and
store up. Spoke of the Lord having a
tried people, and we must perfect ourselves
and prove our integrity, and that it would
be a password for us into the Celestial
Kingdon; and we must help and cheer each
other all we can for there is enough trouble
for us all to pass through.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said she was happy
in being with us, and that it was right that
we should become acquainted with each
other, and have a perfect understand-
ing that difficulties might not exist between
us; that more difficulties arose through
misunderstandings than anything else; that
we had a right to be happy, and we are on
an equality one with another. She loved
to talk with the sisters when the spirit of
the Lord was upon her. Spoke of there
being sisters in S. L. City, who were learn-
ed in medicine and surgery, had received
their diplomas, could set dislocated joints,
and were prepared to teach others. That
we should have some one in every settle-
ment qualified to do these things. Asked
the Lord to sanctify our troubles to us.
	Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough from Nephi,
made some remarks on what had been said,
and on the order of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde thought it unwise to
detain us much longer. The Spirit of God
was poured out upon the sisters and made
manifest in the gifts of the Gospel, prov-
ing the Lord is willing to bless us if we
keep his commandments. Our President
called on Elders B. Lund, J. G. Guymon,
R. Carter, C. Collard, and S Jewkes to oc-
cupy a short time; each made a few re-
marks, expressing their satisfaction in wit-
nessing so good a time.
	Your Sisters, etc.

			POLLY ANN JOHNSON, Pres't.
			MARY JEWKES, Sec'y.


THE AVOCATIONS OF WOMEN.—In the
United States, according to the census of
1870, out of  9,750,000 women, 1,594,783 wo-
men and girls above the age of 10, or only
one in six of the whole female population, 
are represented in the tables of occupation. 
Leaving out of the account 374,832 who, in
the number slated, are registered as agri-
cultural laborers, and are mainly colored,
there are still left 1,221,451 white women
engaged in the industries of the country.
Of these 22,681 are farmers and planters; 
353,950 are engaged in manufactures; 18,
698 in trade and commerce; 84,047 in
teaching; 7,060 in keeping boarding-houses;


867,354 in domestic service; 1,179 are bar-
bers and hair-dressers; 1,186 are midwives,
and from 500 to 600 are physicians.
	In the next census report, it is to be
hoped that the hundreds of thousands of
women, who are holding the most responsi-
ble of all business posts, viz., that of mother
and home-maker, will be counted as having
a business, and as producers. These avoca-
tions have had no recognized money value
up to this hour, and so they are not even
mentioned in the census.
	Before another ten years have elapsed,
there should be a pecuniary value legally
secured for them. This will ensure to
wives and mothers their proper mention
and rank in the census. But their crowning
worth will always be the imperishable re-
sults which cannot be measured by gold
and silver.					L. S.
	—Woman's Journal.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN of New Orleans held a pub-
lic meeting in the Spring to devise methods
of disposing of stock for the contemplated
Southern Across-the-Continent Railroad,
which in the hands of the men seemed
likely to fall through. The Women of
Virginia contemplate a greater step. They
have formed a society for the purpose of
paying the State debt; have elected officers,
appointed committees, and hope to get
every woman of the State engaged.
	This is the usual way; men get into
trouble, then the women must help them
out. But we object to following this plan
any longer. It is after the fashion of wo-
men paying church debts, only on a larger
scale. The men have danced, now let them
pay the fiddler.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	PRIMROSE CUNNINGHAM Shields, wife of
John Shields, was born at Renfrew, Renfrew-
shire, Scotland, Aug. 17th, 1805; was married
to Bro. Shields Aug. 16, 1827; was baptized
May 10th, 1842, died July 4th, 1878. She was
the mother of nine children, four of whom
are now living, and fifty-six grand-children,
and three great grand children.
	Her name will ever be held in honorable re-
membrance for her firm faith in the gospel,
for her integrity and uprightness, and her dili-
gent, earnest efforts for the good of all within
her reach. She bore her last sickness with the
greatest patience, and calmly fell asleep,
awaiting the morning of the resurrection.

		You've dune your duty here mither,
			As mair than me can tell;
		You've taught your bairns the road to gang
			By guan that gate y[-]rsel.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and disease of 
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to
No. 40 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the fr[--]nds of Home Industry, and the [-]ublic gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of [-]ats mad[-] from
the la[-]e Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Importe[-] Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at m[-]derate prices.
and Panams, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Bu[-]ldings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Res[--]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.         97 Kimball Block.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's [-]otel.
P. O. BOX 1089.

LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns
and Dress Good[-], knowing they get served the 
Be[-]t and 
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest and Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys.
Yarns, Blankets[-] Shawls, H[-]siery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Stor[-], nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[-]erative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street
	Special study has been given to Obstetr[-]cs, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to 
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of 
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in 
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUG. 15, 1878.		No. 6.


LINES,
ADDRESSED TO ELDER JOHN NICHOLSON,
PREVIOUS TO HIS DEPARTURE, ON A
MISSION TO EUROPE.

BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

The stream of time is ebbing low—
	The closing scene is near:
There's a much to do, then Brother go,
	Although we need you here.
On Europe's shore a broader field
	Of work you're called to fill:
We know the voice of God, and yield
	Submission to his will.

CHORUS.

Remember Brother, everywhere
	In duty's path you tread,
We'll pour, by constant faith and prayer,
	Our blessings on your head.

When far from these dear mountain vales,
	Where warm, fond hearts you leave,
While time and distance, silently
	Their twofold web shall weave,
Supported by Jehovah's arm—
	Protected by his power
He'll bear you off o'er every harm.
	And gild the darkest hour.

CHORUS.

The nations' pulses you must feel:
	Mark well their swift decay;
And timely warn the pure in heart,
	To rise and come away,
Your heart inspired with heav'nly zeal
	Salvation's power to spread;
You'll move the mighty Cause and bless
	The living and the dead.

CHORUS.

Tell those who wield th' affairs of State—
	Let haughty tyrants hear—
The worldly wise and worldly great,
	The day of God is near.
He'll bind the powers of wickedness—
	He'll make the oppressor cease—
He,ll crown the world with righteousness,
	With Knowledge, Truth and Peace.

CHORUS.


SOCIAL GATHERING.

	The poem published above was sung at
the residence of Elder C. J. Thomas, where
a few of the relatives and friends of Elder
John Nicholson had met in recognition of
their affection and respect for him, as he
intends leaving home shortly on a mission
to Europe. There were present his aged
parents, all his own immediate family, Br.
John Barton and family, Miss E. R. Snow
and officers of the Relief Society of the
18th Ward, and other particular friends.
It was a complete surprise for Br. Nichol-
son. The poem was sung by Mrs. Elizabeth
Thomas, Mrs. Fannie Thatcher playing the
accompaniment on the organ. Br. Nichol-
son expressed himself in a few words of
grateful acknowledgement appropriate to
the time and circumstances. The guests
then sat down to a bountiful repast, which
had been previously arranged, and the
time was spent in agreeable and social con-
versation. The sentiment expressed by
Miss Snow in the chorus will no doubt be
fully verified during the absence of Br.
Nicholson, and we trust he will realize he
has the faith and prayers of the Saints-
and especially those who know him inti,


mately. We say, God bless Elder Nichol-
son and keep him in His holy care, that he
may accomplish great good in disseminat-
ing the principles of truth.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	After having made this preface to my
short narrative, I will introduce myself to
the readers of the EXPONENT, by telling
them I was born in the first year of the
19th century, (and must confess myself as
being proud of my Yankee origin,) in one
of the quaintest and most primitive little
villages near the seashore opposite Long
Island, in the State of Connecticut. ten
miles only from the beautiful city of New
Haven. The family from which I was de-
scended, ranked as one of the oldest in the
country.
	I was the eldest child, and grew up in
an atmosphere of love and tenderness. I
received all the advantages of education,
such as young ladies usually enjoyed at
that time, and was taught dancing among
other things, which, in the religious world
in that day, was not considered orthodox.
My parents were not members of any
church, and they wished me to enjoy life,
and thought dancing added grace and easi-
ness to one's manner.
	My father had no sympathy with any of
the priests of the day, although he was
honest, moral and upright in all his acts.
In looking back over the long vista of years
which have intervened since that time,
the[-]e is nothing connected with my child-
hood and early girlhood upon which I dwell
with more satisfaction than the companion-
ship of my father. My mother was of
a delicate, nervous temperament, and with
household duties and younger children to
occupy her, she allowed me to choose my
own society, and I clung more closely to my
father. Shortly after I became of age a
new era of my life opened, and the whole
current of my fortune changed. I was sepa-
rated from my parents, and through a com-
plication of circumstances which followed,
was debarred from ever seeing my mother
again.
	A maiden aunt of mine, very independ-
ent and self-reliant, concluded to go to
Ohio and make a home. It was then a new
country, comparatively, and to undertake
so long a journey was almost as remarkable
then as to go round the world would be
now. She entreated my parents to allow
me to go with her, and after much inter-
ceding and many promises they at last con-
sented, realizing that she would be faithful
in her office as guardian and protector, and
knew her to be competent to act for herself
and her niece, and as she had property at
her own disposal, felt I would be well off
and should gain a new experience and see
something of the world.
	The journey was particularly pleasant,
the scenery upon the way was a rich feast
to me, who had never been far from home;
New Haven and the seashore were to my
mind beautiful indeed, but traveling over
this wonderful country was like the land of
enchantment.

[Column 2]
	We settled a few miles inland from Lake
Erie; the country was new and wild, which
added to its picturesqueness, and I was
happy in my new home and surroundings.
My beloved aunt was a true and affection-
ate friend to me, and had great influence
over me in molding my character and de-
veloping my strongest attributes. We were
sincerely attached to each other, and no
young girl ever had a wiser or more judi-
cious guardian than was this maiden aunt
to me. My father made up his mind to
come West, but circumstances not proving
propitious, and my mother not desiring to
change her residence, they concluded to
remain at the homestead.
	There is little occasion to dwell long upon
the incidents which subsequently trans-
pired previous to my becoming acquainted
with one who afterwards became my hus-
band. Suffice it to say he was a young man,
and had come out West to "seek his for-
tune." He had thrift and energy, and he
accumulated property faster than most of
his companions and associates. Indeed, he
became proverbial as being lucky in all his
undertakings. He had been trading at
Green Bay, buying furs and skins from the
Indians and trappers, for the Eastern mar-
ket, exchanging them for goods suitable
for the wants of the people in that locality:
In his travels to and from New York he
passed through the country where we re-
sided, and "we met by chance." became
attached to each other, and my aunt grant-
ing her full approval, we were married
after a courtship of reasonable length, as in
those days girls were not allowed to marry
without the lover paying court for a certain
length of time. Yet ours was strictly a
marriage of affection. Our tastes, our feel-
ings were congenial, and we were really a
happy couple, with bright prospects in
store. Our marriage was looked upon by
our relatives and friends, according to the
old Yankee phrase, as highly proper and
decidedly respectable.
			(To be continued.)


AN ASSOCIATION of women is being or-
ganized in Berlin, Prussia, to furnish free
medical advice for poor, sick women. Med-
icines will be furnished gratis. The phys-
icians who have offered their services to
this institution are the Misses Tiburtius
and Lehmus, doctors of medecine. These
ladies have studied at Zurich. The cousul-
tations will be given twice a week.—EX.

	WE HAVE upon our list of exchanges two
papers new to us, published by women, and
ably edited. "The Physiologist," by Sara
M. B. Chase, A. M. M. D., New York City,
is devoted more especially to the laws of
life and health, etc. "The Beacon of Pro-
gress," edited by Mary E. Haggart at In-
dianapolis, is a smaller paper now in its
second volume. It treats on the equality
of sex, universal suffrage, woman's ad-
vancement in business, education and poli-
tics, etc., in a fair and just manner. The
editor evidently is not afraid of Mormon
writings, as we notice she has reprinted
one of our editorials, for which favor we re-
turn our sincere thanks. We believe it is
the best policy to help each other, and that
in mutual help there is much strength.


42		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, July 20, was intensely interest-
ing, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, Mrs. E.
B. Wells Sec'y. "pro. tem." The minutes
of the young ladies showed a marked im-
provement which is most encouraging, and
the speeches all seemed spirited and full of
light. President M. Isabella Horne, Coun-
selors S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith, Phebe
Wooodruff, and Mrs. Hannah T. King, Mrs. S.
M. Heywood, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells each addressed the meeting.
The subjects were the organizations of the
sisters, the good they had accomplished,
the future field open before them, home
duties, the training of children, decorum
in public meetings and especially the
House of God; night excursions, molding
of character, faith in sickness, the adminis-
tration of the ordinance for healing, the sick.
The "franchise," the coming election, wo-
man's duty on petitions, naturalization
papers, the Rochester Convention, the stor-
ing of grain, the raising of white beans,
the class of reading most suitable for the
young people of Zion, keeping the Sabbath
day holy, regarding the feelings of others,
home industries, and how we could best
promote them, and a great many other
points were spoken upon in an earnest and
impressive manner.

	General Retrenchment Meeting, Satur-
day Aug. 3, at the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, was well attended and very
interesting. Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding
and on the stand with her were Counselors
Miss Eliza R. Snow, B. W. Smith, S. M.
Kimball, Phebe Woodruff, and other promi-
nent sisters. Mrs. E. B. Wells, acting
Secretary. The President made opening
remarks upon the care of children during
the hot weather, exhorted mothers to be
careful about the food they give the child-
ren, and exposure to heat and draughts;
said she felt pleased with the movements
made recently for woman's advancement.
She felt the Lord had heard the cries of
his daughters and was blessing them. In
all great questions there was always more
or less opposition. Counselor E. R. Snow
was the next speaker, she had been absent
from three meetings and during that time
had visited the societies in many places;
she gave a short sketch of her travels and
meetings with the sisters, their organiza-
tions and the great work that was being ac-
complished little by little. Miss Snow said
wherever she had visited she had instruct-
ed the sisters to take out naturalization pa-
pers, those who were not citizens. Wo-
man's cause is man's cause there is no sep-
arating the two, but woman's work and 
man's work are different. God is at the
helm, and he chooses such instruments as
He sees fit to do His work; it is all one with
us, it is a universal interest. We can see
the sphere of man is extending and wo-
man's place is at the side of her husband,
as his counselor not dictator. Miss Snow
said during her journey whenever she
visited a new place, she told the people if
she knew the character of the women of
the place, she would know the state of so-
ciety; she entreated the sisters to read the
newspapers, and learn the condition and
needs of the country, what was going on
in the world, if the mothers were too busy
to read the news, let the children read to
them while they were at work, and keep
posted on all affairs of public interest; spoke
earnestly on the subject of storing grain

[Column 2]
and beans and preparing for a day of need,
said our motto should be "make hay while
the sun shines," and lay up our stores now
when there is an abundant harvest. Mrs.
Hannah T. King next addressed the meet-
ing; she remarked that Miss Snow's dis-
course was most excellent and ought to be
written word for word and published to the
world. She felt strengthened by it, and
that the spirit of the Lord was there, she
rejoiced in the sisters meetings; she felt
the women of this church had passed
through such experiences as had prepared
them to fill important positions. She also
felt that some of us had been called upon
lately to act in places that woman had nev-
er filled before. Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth, woman had been consider-
ed subordinate, but she felt was now mov-
ing forward and occupying a broader and
higher sphere. She would not arrogate to
herself the title of a woman's rights advo-
cate, but gloried in woman's capabilities:
bore testimony to the efficacy of the Gos-
pel to comfort at all times and through all
trials.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the relation
of woman to society, her influence for good
when properly directed, the necessity there
was of preserving an equal balance on all
subjects, not to be extreme, but to ask for
wisdom and use every means given us ju-
diciously; said there were many causes
which had induced the women of the
world to battle for the Suffrage and one of
these was intemperance. There was a 
spirit and influence now brought to bear in
the work women were doing, that was
scarcely understood, but she rejoiced in the
stand now being taken by women of judg-
ment and intelligence.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney said when we assem-
ble ourselves together we always feel bles-
sed and comforted, she felt there had been
a great deal of instruction given in the
proper course of improvement, "it will be
well for us all to take the noblest methods,
all have not the same capacity, if we listen
when we come here we will learn many
useful items. The training of our children
is of the most serious consequence. I
wish our girls could be better trained, many
of them. I do not like night excursions,
nor to see our girls hanging over the gate
post, such conduct is beneath them, but we
cannot any of us walk the perfect mark,
I expect to miss it many times, but I in-
tend to keep on trying, I hope that we will
so faithfully serve "our Father" that we
will be fully satisfied with our reward."
Pres. Horne said she would like to mention
the election, it was to take place on Mon-
day next, and we should all go to the polls
and vote that were legal voters, and had
been registered under the new election
law, and maintain our own institutions; "our
votes count just as much as those of our
brethren, and we are becoming a power in
the land; this reminds us of what Bro. D.
H. Wells once said in one of our meetings,
he said "the sisters are becoming quite a
power, and for my part I am not afraid to
trust them." These meetings are of
great benefit to the sisters; they obtain
through this medium much spiritual
strength as well as knowledge on a variety
of subjects which if properly applied will
aid them in every day life, as well as help
them to attain to an exaltation in the fu-
ture.

			HARRISVILLE, July 17, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of Harrisville was organized in

[Column 3]
the year, 1875, Nov. 11th, under the direc-
tion of Miss E. R. Snow, with the follow-
ing officers;

	Miss Leonora Rawson, President,
	"	Cyntha Shurtliff,	  }
	"	Polly Rawson,	  }
	"	Almeda Taylor,	  }	Counselors,
	"	Sariah Rawson,	  }
	"	Margaret Pritchett }
	"	Lovina Shurtliff,	  }
	"	Sarah Dixon, Secretary,
	"	Mary Wilson, Assistant Secretary,
	"	Harriet Daybell, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings as regular as possi-
ble, and have a good attendance, consider-
ing our scattered condition; we read your
excellent paper in our meetings, and feel
blessed thereby. We feel that we have a
work to do as well as the elder sisters, and
by thus commencing in our youth, we shall
be more capable as we grow older than we
could be if we had not this privilege. It
is a great privilege the young enjoy in these
organizations, and we should esteem it as
such and improve our time. Hoping that
God will bless all who are trying to serve
Him, we remain
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		LEONORA RAWSON, President,
		SARAH DIXON, Secretary.

			CROYDEN, MORGAN CO.,
						July 27, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Croyden was re-
organized Oct. 22, 1877, by Bishop John
Hopkins and Counselors. The following
named sisters were then unanimously
elected as officers:

	Helen Thackeray, President,
	Mary Hopkins,	}	Counselors.
	Fanny Swann,	}
	Elizabeth Blackwell, Secretary,
	Hannah London, Treasurer.

	We have eighteen names enrolled as
members; and all manifest a co-working
spirit in this great cause. We assist the
poor in whatever way we can; have do-
nated liberally to the Temple, and are us-
ing our uttermost exertions in storing
wheat.
	The 24th of July was duly observed and
celebrated here. During the day we had
a pleasant and social time, and in the eve
ning a dance, which was designed and man-
aged throughout by the sisters, and proved,
financially, a success. The musicians,
Father John Toone and J. and W. Brown-
ing, donated their services for the occasion.
	Wishing your valuable paper much suc-
cess, &c.
		HELEN THACKERY, Pres't,
		ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, Sec'y.


CONNECTICUT has at last gained one point
towards “Woman Suffrage.” The women
will be permitted to vote in school meet-
ings, and the men no doubt think they
have made a wonderful concession to allow
women the privilege of electing the men
who regulate affairs for the education of
their children, boys and girls, teachers’
wages, and so on, in a State where a heavy
percentage of the teachers are women with
poor salaries. However, part of a loaf is
better than no bread at all, and a judicious
use of this privilege may pave the way for
future independence for women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONG OF THE HEART.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

The harp within my heart of a thousand strings
Is all unstrung,
Or only just a few vibrating chords
Alone are sung,
For death again has broken up my heart,
And made me mourn,
The sister much beloved has  pass'd away
To that last bourn!
Youth and its sunny hours and friends are gone
Their voices mute,
And only memory's aid can wake again
The heart's sweet lute;
Yet have we friends and oh! they love us well,
And we love them;
But youth's sweet poem, once so proudly sung
None sing again.
And do I pine that I can sing no more.
What once I sang?
That I the past can never more recall?
Gives this a pang?
No! no! the past is past, and I would not recall
Even one day,
But on! on! higher, higher yet
My heart doth say.
Yes, let it go! the stream of life flows on
With noiseless roll,
And day by day, and night by night, we do approach
The final goal.
My much loved sister thou hast reach'd the goal
The dark, dull river
Is crossed, and thy enfranchised soul
Is with the Giver!
The great, grand Giver of the boon of life
My God, and thine;
Free from all sorrow, from all care set free
In realms divine!
Dear innocent, cheerful, gay and loving Mary
Loving guileless Mary,
Angels of highest order close around
My sister Mary.
Suppress the sigh, press back the starting tear
We give thee joy!
Thou dost behold thy Father face to face,
Without alloy.
And in our heart thy cenotaph we place.
S. L. City, July, 1878.


[Column 1]
VISIT OF THE QUEEN TO THE RE-
LIEF SOCIETY.

LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
July 6th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit
to our isolated home might be of interest
to some of the readers of the EXPONENT,
I forward the following. Her Majesty
Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the
close of our morning services. Her design
was to reach here in time for our meeting,
but on account of the illness of one of the
party she was detained. Her attendants
consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd,
and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants
all bearing some big title pertaining to the
Palace household, such as cup bearer, cham-
bermaid, steward, etc. She was making a
tour around the Island for pleasure, and in
the interests of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Re-
lief Society.) We bade them welcome in
an easy manner, leaving out no doubt many
of the court titles usually applied to people
holding such positions, which appeared to
have the effect of making them feel at
home. At 1 o'clock p. m. a messenger ar-
rived to tell her Majesty the people were
assembled ready to receive and hear her
instructions. We all walked to the meet-
ing house which was filled to overflowing,
anxiously waiting her arrival; as she en-
tered, the people arose to their feet, the
choir singing a song of welcome composed

[Column 2]
for the occasion. The house was nicely
decorated with evergreens, with appropri-
ate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful
crown composed of ferns just over her Maj-
esty's seat. The meeting being opened,
she arose and read her speech, which was
short but to the point, urging the people to
continue in the good works of administering
to the afflicted and destitute, gave some
good advice in regard to the management
of the society, disbursements of means, etc
Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity,
union and contentment of the people here;
thought much credit was due to the foreign
Elders; after which Elders Molen and Rich-
ards occupied a few minutes each, in sup-
port of the Queen's instructions, eulogised
her in her work of charity among the peo-
ple. 
	After returning to the house the natives
were permitted to shake hands with her
Majesty and say "aloha;" many of the old-
er ones who had not entirely forgotten their
ancient habits of showing deference to
their nobles, approached her on their knees,
or with heads almost bowed to the ground;
while the more enlightened ones only
showed due respect. This over, we all,
(the Queens party and members of the Mis-
sion) sat down to the table and partook of a 
plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a
nice looking woman, very affable and kind,
but not loquacious. Her sister, Pooloku, is
more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a
good joke and quite as ready to take as give
one. Miss Pitman has traveled considera-
bly in the U. S., is well informed and quite
a talker; she visited S. L. City not long ago,
and is full of praise and admiration of that
place and the people.
	By previous invitation they were the
guests of Bro. Kaleohano where they re-
paired in the evening. They felt so much
at home their stay was prolonged two days.
	The natives flocked around them by hun-
dreds, and did all in their power to make
them comfortable. We rode up in the
mountains with them, gathered ferns, and
lunched under the boughs of the evergreen
trees, by the side of the beautiful cool
stream of water that sinks long before it
reaches the parched cane fields below.
	They were surprised at the number of
children compared with other places they
had visited; and judging by remarks she
made to some of our natives, she was con-
vinced that our Elders were doing all that
could be done towards carrying out the
King's motto "save and increase the na-
tion." The feeling of hatred and persecu-
tion against our people has but little space
in the hearts of the native population, only
as it is instilled into them by hireling
Priests; but the straight forward course of
our Elders has done much towards dispell-
ing prejudice. The members of the mis-
sion are all in tolerable health.
	The drouth on this side of the Island
still continues, and to add to this calamity,
the "Peluas" (an army worm,) has swept
over the face of the country and taken
every green thing near the shore, except
some of the cane which has become so
toughened by drouth that their voracious
stomachs could not digest it.
	The Relief Society held their third An-
nual Festival Meeting to-day, which was
really a credit to our native sisters; they
were all dressed in white and made a
grand appearance in the procession. They
seemed to be filled with the spirit of the
Gospel, and from their own earnings they
feasted some two hundred persons, which
is no small matter these hard times; they
have done much towards administering to
the poor and needy of this place; and not-

[Column 3]
withstanding their many imperfections
which are the effects of surrounding cir-
cumstances, my heart leads me to say,
God bless them.
	Your sister,
	J. E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			VACCINATION.

	This is a subject, that by us as a people,
is much neglected, and there is also a great
prejudice against it, perhaps not without
cause. But if some one who understands
would take an interest in it, and attend to
it in the proper way, there need be no fear
of transmitting disease from one person to
another.
	For the benefit of others I will give a
little of my experience, and if it is a means
of doing good, I shall be amply repaid for
the trouble of writing it.
	In the Spring of 1852 the small-pox
made its appearance in our neighborhood,
my husband was taken down with "Vario-
loid," and having three little children who
had not been vaccinated, we were very
much alarmed, but fortunately had a near
neighbor who was a doctor; he proposed to
inoculate one of our cows, and one of his,
(ours being light and his dark) with the
small pox virus, which he did, ours took
splendidly from which he vaccinated my-
self and three children, and a young girl
who was living with us at the time; with
the exception of one little girl, none had
more than the symptoms.
	I presume there are no cases of small
pox in the country at present, as it is a
winter disease; but we have been taught
"in time of peace prepare for war."
								E. B.


A MASSACHUSETTS HEROINE.—Visitors
to Scituate, Mass., always make it a point
to visit Miss Rebecca W. Bates. who lives
at the head of the harbor, in an old-fash-
ioned house. The elderly maiden lady,
now in her 85th year, is as active as most
people of sixty. She, with her old maid
sister of 82, distinguished herself during
the war of 1812 by driving away the Brit-
ish soldiers who had started in barges from
a man-of-war to capture the flour with
which two vessels were laden, lying at the
head of the harbor. On this memorable
day, all the men were away picking ber-
ries, or doing something of that sort, and
the British commander noticing by the aid
of his glass that there was a seeming scar-
city of men in the town, made up his mind
to capture the flour. Miss Bate's father
kept the lighthouse, and at the time she
was 19 years of age. She could play the
fife, and her sister was good at beating the
drum. Discovering the approach of the
British, Rebecca evolved a bit of Yankee
strategy. Hastening to the lighthouse, she
and her sister, concealing themselves, pro-
ceeded to play martial music at the head of
an imaginary company of recruits. The
British ceased rowing; they pricked up
their ears, the fife and drum going in the
meantime. Soon a signal from the captain
of the ship in the distance warned the
barge of danger, and, turning about, the
British returned to the ship, Miss Rebecca
W. Bates playing "Yankee Doodle," with
all the spirit of which she was possessed.
—Ex.


OF THE forty one young girls this year
at the Boston Latin School for girls, but
one failed to pass an examination.


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten-lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUG. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
LITERATURE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

	In the past history of this people there was
little time or opportunity to bestow careful at-
tention upon educational interests. Many pe-
culiar circumstances induced this state of af-
fairs. Everything was new, crude, hard and
severe in this land of sage-brush and saleratus;
he people were compelled to labor constantly
for their maintenance, to secure shelter, food
and raiment, day by day; consequently the
finer faculties, the intellectual and spiritual
attributes were neglected, and had not the pro-
per nourishment, or stimulus.
	The Lord has blest his people in a wonderful
manner; prosperity has crowned their untiring
and energetic efforts, and they possess now, in
a great degree, the facilities and resources
through which they may obtain and give to
their children the advantages of a liberal edu-
cation. Parents should give this subject se-
rious thought, and while they are generously
allowing their children time and educational
advantages, that they may gain correct knowl-
edge of men and things, and become instructed
in all the branches of education that will pre-
pare them to be great, good and wise men and
women, watch carefully the manner in which
they spend their precious time, and the use
they make of these excellent opportunities.
	The world is full of books, magaz[-]nes, jour-
nals and newspapers, and they are not all good.
There is more trashy, cheap literature than
that which is pure and good; and there is a
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, perhaps, as
other evil influences, because of its silent pow-
er; but it is nevertheless as dangerous and as
much to be guarded against, and in our opinion
it is more difficult to detect.
	Mothers are neglectful in this matter, no
doubt it is for want of thought; some mothers
SEEM to be under the impression that if their
children read it keeps them out of evil associa-
tion, that it is a sort of safeguard, but books
and papers are companions, and they speak di-
rect to the heart in a language of silent power,
and they produce lasting impressions, and it is
just as essential that books and reading matter
should be carefully chosen as that other com-
panionship should.
	This subject has been lorcibly brought to our
mind very recently by seeing in the hands of
young ladies, in fact seeing them purchase,
such literature (if it can be so designated) as
should be gathered together and burned.
	The expression is often made "How can we
judge of a book unless we read it?" but our
opinion is that young people should take coun-
sel of older and wiser heads, be guided by the
judgment of persons of larger experience, even
though their school education had been limit-
ed, for all learning does not come from books,

[Column 2]
and the Spirit of God is a safer guide than all
the education of the world.
	We have written these few words to call the
attention of mothers, and teachers, and those
who have an influence with young people, to
this important subject. We have heard some-
where a remark like this: "Tell me what books
you have read and I will tell you what you
know." It is not the quantity of reading, but
the quality of it that should be considered;
and in our opinion it is much more injurious
to gather into the storehouse of the brain indi-
gestible and corrupt mental food, than to take
unsuitable food into the stomach; for the stom-
ach may be easier corrected, and the effect can
scarcely be as lasting. Some will say, O, I read
so and so for pastime, it goes in at one ear and
out at another, but we doubt very much that
it does not have an evil effect. At any rate, it
is a risk to run.
	If this people want the rising generation to
be intelligent, to be superior in their attain-
ments, to distinguish themselves in knowledge
and in science, then they should take heed
what they read and how their minds are dis-
ciplined.
	Some mothers are very careful in regard to
the clothing of their children, the selecting of
material, the manner of making up, but ut-
terly regardless of the books they purchase, or
read; whereas there is really no compa[-]ison
whatever between the two. The tendency of
immoral literature, and such as inculcates false
ideas of life and happiness, is vi[-]iating and 
weakening, and cannot be too strongly spoken
against and deprecated; and unless this course
is pursued, and persons of influence protest
against this pernicious and insidious power. it
will gain strong vantage ground even among
the children of the Saints. This is an evil
that is growing in this community, and if any
check can be put upon it, any restraining in-
fluence brought to bear in favor of good read-
ing, in favor of truth, it should be done.
Through the young people's organized associa-
tions a great deal has been done to improve
the mental and spiritual condition of the
young, but there is a vast amount of work yet
remains undone, and there is much apathy
and indifference where there should be activity
and diligence. Mothers and sisters, this is a
part of your work. Wake up to your duty, for
this is one part of your mission.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	REPORTS RECEIVED and laid over for publica-
tion from Spring City, Heber City, Manti,
and Kingston. Correspondence from May-
field, Clarkston, Honeyville, Goshen, St.
Charles.

	DIED, IN the 13th Ward, S. L. City, of con-
sumption of the bowels, after an illness of
little more than two weeks, Launcelot William,
infant son of Dr. William and Ellen B Fergu-
son, M. D. Deceased was born April 27, 1878,
and was three months and eighteen days old
when he died. We condole with the parents
of this little one in their sad bereavement.
Funeral will take place at the residence of the
parents to-day, Aug. 15, at 4 o'clock.

	MISS ELIZA R. Snow and Mrs. E. Davis
have been making a tour in the Northern set-
tlements, in the interest of Relief Societies
and Young Ladies' Associations, holding meet-
ings at Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville and other
places, stimulating and encouraging the sisters
in home industries in home education, and ex-
horting them to good works generally. It is
expected they will be in Ogden to-day, attend

[Column 2]
the Conference there, and then proceed to Por-
terville, in Morgan Co.

	THERE WILL be a two day's Conference of
Weber Co. Relief Society, commencing to day;
held in the Tabernacle at Ogden. This will be
the first Woman's Conference held for two
days. It is expected that there will be an un-
usually large gathering from adjacent towns,
and representative women from Salt Lake
City and other places will attend. Reports of
the condition of all the branches of the Relief
Society in the Weber Stake of Zion will be
read. The Young Ladies' Association will
combine with them on this occasion

	CONSIDERABLE HAS been said through our
columns on the subject of foreigners taking
out naturalization papers, so as to become citi-
zens. In Utah, where women have the "fran-
chise," it is necessary that women should be
naturalized as well as men. We would say, for
the benefit of those who may not be informed
on this subject, that if the person desiring to
become a citizen emigrated previous to 18 years
of age, and has been a resident in the United
States five years, and in the Territory of Utah
six months, then she can take out full papers at
once, by substantiating these facts with two
witnesses and being sworn to that effect. We
would urge upon the sisters who have not acted
in this matter to delay no longer; those who
have to take out two sets of papers must wait
two years after taking out the first before they
can vote; though they can take up land, but
can obtain no patent from government.

	WEDNESDAY EVENING, Aug. 7, we attended
the meeting of the Young Ladies' Association
of the 8th Ward, Mrs. Mary Leaver presiding.
We were pleased with the manner in which
the meeting was conducted. Excellent re-
marks were made by several sisters. It is
truly encouraging to hear the young sisters
speak understandingly and with eas[-], as did
Miss Agnes Pickett at that time. Mrs. Eliza-
b[-]th Thomas, President of Y L. A. of the 13th
Ward, addressed the meeting for a short time,
and said many good things to the young sis-
ters. We feel it would be well if the presi-
dents and members of Associations would visit
each other frequently, and many good ideas
might thus be interchanged, which would re-
sult in good. Too much cannot be done to
stimulate the young people in cultivating their
precious talents. Sisters, you who are older
and wiser in experience, visit the young ladies'
meetings, you will benefit them and be blest
yourselves by so doing.

	WE HAVE received "Woman's Words" for
August. It is an excellent number, containing
many notices of women and their efficient la-
bors in the cause of Suffrage, of education in
the various associations where they are per-
mitted to labor; notices of business women in
Philadelphia and Washington. It has a well-
written and comp[-]ehensive account of the
Third Decade Celebration in Rochester. On
the title page is a woodcut of Miss Frances E.
Willard, with a sketch of her life. Miss, Wil-
lard is one of the most noted women of our
time. She is a warm philanthropist, and has
been a zealous worker in the cause of Temper-
ance since Oct., 1872. "Woman's Words," al-
though only in its second volume, has attained
great popularity. The ladies who are now as-
sociated as editors are extensively known, not
only as writers, but active workers for the ad-
vancement of education and culture, as well
as equal r[-]ghts and universal suffrage. It is
certainly one of the very best papers published
by women. The language is always choice
and elegant, the whole tone of the paper intel-
lectual and elevating.


[Column 1]
	THURSDAY MORNING, Aug. 8, we started, in
company with Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of
S. L. Stake Relief Society, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
her Counselor, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Presi-
dent of Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, on a
visit to North Jordan and Union Relief Socie-
ties, We arrived at North Jordan about eight
o'clock, where we were greeted by the Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Eliza S. Spencer;
and other sisters, and were most warmly wel-
comed and hospitably entertained. At 10
o'clock we repaired to the New Meeting House,
a very substantial brick building; which has
been built very recently and speaks well for
the energy of the people of that district. Af-
ter the opening exercises and a few introduc-
tory remarks by the President, Mrs. Spencer,
Mrs. Horne was the first speaker; she spoke
eloquently and earnestly; her subjects were
woman's position at the present day at the
side of her husband, and referred to the proph-
ecies of Malachi concerning the work of the
latter days. She said that the Prophet Joseph
Smith, when he organized the Relief Society
in Nauvoo, recommended to them to do business
and conduct their meetings according to par-
liamentary rules. Said she believed the Lord
had accepted the sacrifices of His daughters.
She exhorted the sisters to seek knowledge
from the best books, as the Prophet Joseph
had advised, and cultivate their spiritual facul-
ties; told the sisters to read the Book of
Isaiah, where the Lord calls npon the women
of Zion. She exhorted mothers to discipline
their children in obedience, honesty, and
truthfulness. Advised the storing of grain
and the raising of white beans. Said the Gen-
tiles were watching the fulfilment of prophecy;
for already they had expressed them[-]elves as
believing that, when Lord Beaconsfield (Dis-
raeli) presided at the recent Congress at Berlin,
the prophecy of Zachariah was fulfilled, that
"ten men shall take hold, out of all languages
of the nations, even shall take hold of the
skirt of him that is a Jew," &c. Mrs. Horne
also spoke upon the growing evil of intemper-
ance.
	We were next called upon to address the
meeting, which we did briefly dwelling mostly
upon the education and cultivation of the
young people, the observance of good order,
courtesy and politeness in the home life, and
other practical matters which tend to lay the
foundation for improvement. Spoke upon in-
temperance, and that men and women should
be mutually helpful, and work harmoniously
together, otherwise they could not be success-
ful. Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she realized that
more real good had been accompli[-]h[-]d through
the organization of the sisters than could have
been done in any other way. She spoke upon
drunkenness and rowdyism; said the Saints of
God ought to be a temperate and [-]conomical
people. She said every mother's heart is inter-
ested in the training of children; she felt that
the great cause of recklessness and want of
spiritual activity among the children was not
for lack of instruction so much, as because the
principles of the Gospel had not been cor[-]ectly
carried out in the lives of the parents. Urged
the young sisters to use their influence with
the young men in the work of temperance; to
let them know they would not countenance
any evil practises, or associate with any who
were given to them; told the girls not to be de-
ceived into the idea of reform after marriage,
for that it could not be trusted.
	Bishop Bennion made a few remarks, ex-
pressing his satisfaction, and said the sisters
could not have touched upon subjects that
would have done more good. Said he was sure
great improvements could be made, if the peo-

[Column 2]
ple lived up to their duties. He spoke of the
hard work the brethren had to do there to get
water on their land, and even [-]ft[-]r they had
built the canals and dug the di[-]ches the water
was not sufficient; but there had been almost a
miracle accomplished this year in the raising
of good crop[-] of wheat, without watering and
without fencing. After very excellent remarks
from the President, Mrs. Spencer, meeting
closed with singing and prayer.
	At 2 o'clock the Young Ladies' Meeting was,
held in the same place. The first speaker was
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. She commenced by say-
ing, "What course can we pursue in life that
will produce the best results?" She felt we
had no right to abuse our bodies by overwork,
and cramp our spirits, for we would thus dwarf
our minds. She said we owe duties to society,
to each other, to the world at large, and we
could gain much by reflecting upon the sub-
jects brought up in speaking and praying.
Thought the class of reading suitable for young
mothers was the laws of life and health.	*	*
Mrs. Kimball said intelligent men are needed
to carry on the work of the last dispensation,
and such men need intelligent wives, those to
whom they can speak their best thoughts. She
alluded to the International Woman's Con-
gress in Paris, and said it was a proof that the
world was awakened to the true condition of
women. She said much could be done by both
men and women to lighten the burdens of each
other; we are in duty bound to do good. She
exhorted the young people to honor grey-hairs,
said "They'll be laid away by and by to make
room for you."
	Mrs. Prescinda Kimball said the day had
come when we must seek to be self-sustaining;
the children of Zion were naturally intelligent
and talented, they should improve their oppor-
tunities. She said, "Young ladies, honor Ce-
lestial Marriage, sustain your husbands in its
practise. Children, obey your parents, and 
walk in the path that leads to eternal lives;
there are many mansions in the kingdom of
God, let us please God and work righteousness.
Instruct your little ones, sisters, make your
homes pleasant, and let your children see your
lives correspo[-]d with your teachings."
	Mrs. Pixton said, in all her trials she had
found the truth of the Savior's words, "as thy
day so thy strength shall be." Some of the sis-
ters had better opportunities than others had.
Spoke of the rearing of children, the choosing
of a companion for life, said girls should make
it a subject of prayer. Also spoke strongly
against night excursions.
	Mrs. Horne made some brief remarks, said
we need not partake of evil because it was
around us, we want to be pure and virtuous.
"Life is real and earnest;" we have great privi-
leges. She spoke of the class of reading which
should be encouraged; said we have books and
newspapers of home production; we shonld
also become informed on the topics of the day.
	Br. Harker spoke to the mothers, and referred
them to the Book of M[-]rmon and the 2 000
children among the Lam[--]it[-]s, who feared
the Lord and worked righteousness because of
their mothers' fai[-]hfulness and prayers; he
said we cannot retrace the past, but we can be
careful in the future; let the parents do as
they promise their children, and live better
lives.
	The Bishop made some appropriate remarks,
and the meeting closed in the usual manner.
	Friday morning, August 9, at 10 o'clock, we
attended the First Annual Meeting of the Re-
lief Society at Union, S. L. Co. This was
formerly included in South Cottonwood, but is
now divided. Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Presi-
dent, Mrs. Ann Grif[-]iths and Lucy Brady,

[Column 3]
Counselors, Mrs. M. A. Smart, Secretary, Mrs.
Lucy Brady, acting Treasurer. After the
meeting opened with singing and prayer, min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, also
the annual report, which was a good one finan-
cially. The sisters in that district have cer-
tainly been generous in contributing. Presi-
dent Horne spoke upon the blessings enjoyed
by the sisters, urged upon them the duty of
taking out naturalization paper; referred to
the blessings bestowed upon as in this once
desert land. Said we have been slumbering
and sleeping, but we must awake and seek to
save our children. Referred to the boy Samuel
being told by the angel of God to tell Eli, the
great High Priest, his sons should be cut off,
because he had not restrained them in their
wickedness.
	We were next invited to speak: referred to
woman's position now and in the past, the nec-
essity of education and culture among the
young, but more especially the spiritual educa-
without which all other advantages were fruit-
less to us as a people. Touched upon several
topics on which the sisters should inform them-
selves; mentioned the storing of grain and of
white beans, and referred the sisters to the ar-
ticle on the subject, written by suggestion of
President Brigham Young, and published Oct.
15, 1876.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said so much had been
said for woman she wanted to advocate the
cause of the brethren, but in the course of her
remarks referred to the reasons why the wom[-]n
of the world had taken it upon themselves to
represent their own cause; and said she was 
very forcibly reminded to-day of one of their
meetings, when, after they had spoken strongly
of the wrongs women had suffered, etc., some
man arose to defend the sex, but the women
cried out to him to keep his seat, they had been
listening to men for all these hundreds of years,
now they would speak for themselves. Mrs.
K. made many other pertinent remarks.
	Mrs. Prescinda M. Kimball said, this being
the fulness of all dispensations, there was much
to be done, prophecies to be fulfilled, and Tem-
ples built, the dead administered for, and we
must qualify ourselves for this work, for the
wife stands by the husband in all the work to
be done; women had now great opportunities,
etc.
	Mrs. Pixton spoke upon gl[-]a[-]ning and other
subjects.
	Bishop Ishmael Phillips then made some
most excellent remarks upon the woman ques-
tion—aid he considered it one of the greatest
questions of the day. He alluded to what had
been accomplished in the recent Convention of 
S. L. Co.; he felt these things were suggestive,
that there was a power behind these move-
ments, and they were a part of some great
work for the future. He also spoke upon the
gatheting of the Jews, the significance of the
movements made during the late war in the
East. His speech was so full of true and just
appreciation of woman's help and worth in so-
ciety, in politics, and elsewhere, that it was
moved and seconded by the President and offi-
cers of the meeting that the ladies give him a 
vote of thanks for his warm advocation of
woman's cause, which was heartily responded
to by all present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN has been licensed to practice
law at Raleigh, North Carolina, the first one
in that State.
	IN ANCIENT Peru when an Inca died
his wives were buried alive along with him
to serve him in the next world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE AS-
SOCIATION AT ROCHESTER, N. Y.

		BUSINESS MEETING.

	Thursday forenoon, July 10, a prelimi-
nary meeting of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association was held in the Unitarian
church, North Fitzhugh street. The as-
semblage comprised quite a number of the
representative women of America, beside
a goodly gathering in the rear body of the
church, comprising several well-known
Rochester men and women. When the
meeting was called to order by the presi-
dent, Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier, M. D., of
New York, the following named ladies were
recognized among those in attendance: Lu-
cretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan
B. Anthony, Belva A. Lockwood, attorney-
at-law, Washington, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Mrs. Dr. Arter, Mrs. C. S. Lozier, president
of the Woman's Homeopathic Medical Col-
lege of New York, Lavinia C. Dundore,
Mrs. Jarvis, Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Mrs. Lloyd, Mrs. Gardner, Mrs. Slocum, of
New York, Phoebe Couzins, St. Louis. Mrs.
M. W. Lois, Mrs Robinson and daughter
of Boston, Mrs. Plumb, of New York, Mrs.
Stebbens, of Detroit, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs.
Senator Sargent, and Mrs. Dr. Winslow, of
Washington, Amy Post, Sarah Pugh, of Pa.,
Lucy N. Coleman, and Dr. Amelia Ray-
mond, of Syracuse, Mrs. Fray, of Toledo,
Martha Schofield, of South Carolina, and
Mrs. Thompson, of Indiana.
	Mrs. Lozier, who presided, called the
meeting to order, and after advising that
the addresses be short and to the point, that
above all things the members keep cool,
introduced Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, of
Washington, the chairman of the commit-
tee. 
	In giving a "resume" of the recent move-
ment in Washington during the last session
of Congress, Mrs. Spencer said:
	"The work of the National Association
in securing petitions to the 45th Congress
began Jan. 19, 1877, with an empty treasu-
ry. They were encouraged from every
section of the country, by everything else,
except money. Miss Anthony sent word
from the West, Address every postoffice in
the United States: To the friends of Wo-
man Suffrage, Care of the Post Master.
How could it be done? Her appeals to
friends of the cause at last brought the
means and two-thirds of the great pro-
gramme was carried out, but owing to finan-
cial hindrances, so late that only forty thou-
sand friends of the cause were reached.
That this was not a fair representation of
the friends of the cause was indicated by
the fact that in the State of Michigan alone,
men only voting, forty thousand votes were
cast for a woman snffrage amendment to
the State constitution. Mrs. Spencer said
that with one or two exceptions the Sena-
tors and Representatives vied with each
other in courtesy to the petitions, and
many of them improved the various occa-
sions to earnestly commend the question of
the Sixteenth Amendment to the consider-
ation of the committee and the Senate.
The reports which had been circulated to
the contrary were unfair, untrue and dis-
couraging to the patient, faithful workers
all over the land. She said Senator Wad-
leigh's hesitation and delay in making a
report on behalf of his committee was that
he could not find a respectable argument
against it, though he sought for it diligently.
As it stands, it is so altogether frivolous
and inconsistent that she asked him to or-
der a million copies printed that the friends

[Column 2]
of woman suffrage might circulate it as a
campaign document."
	After interesting and eloquent speeches
from Mrs. M. W. Thompson, of Indianapo-
lis, Mrs. Phebe Cousins, of St. Louis, Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of New Jersey,
Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, of North Caro-
lina, Miss Anthony moved that the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Lozier, now appoint the differ-
ent Committees. The motion was sus-
tained, and Mrs. Lozier announced the
Committees: To Nominate Officers, Com-
mittee on Resolutions, Committee on Fi-
nance, Auditing Committe. Adjourned to
4 o'clock.
		AFTERNOON MEETING.
	The closeness and warmth of the atmos-
phere gave ample opportunity for the ex-
ercise of that common right and privilege,
the wielding of fans. Though this oppor-
tunity was generally improved, it might
be added that the plain yet fresh and invit-
ing appearance which the Quaker element
gave to it made the congregation appear as
cool as it was free from agitation.
	The president, Mrs. Lozier, again occu-
pied the chair, and by her the meeting was
called to order.
	Sara A. Spencer, from the nominating
committee, then read the list of officers.
	A separate vote was taken for the presi-
dent, Mrs. Stanton being unanimously
elected.
	The other officers were voted for collec-
tively.
	Mrs. Ellen Clarke Sargent, wife of the
Senator from California, then presented her
report as treasurer of the association for the
past eighteen months. The receipts from
members residing in the various States and
Territories, were read in the alphabetical
order of the States and Territories. The
report was adopted.
	After the business of the meeting had
been transacted, Susan B. Anthony made a
few remarks, alluding to the advisability
and necessity of circulating newspapers
through the country which should be ex-
ponents of the cause of woman suffrage.
She emphasized the importance of the as-
sociation having one recognized exponent
or organ, in the shape of a newspaper. As
such an exponent of woman suffrage she
warmly recommended the "National Citi-
zen and Ballot Box," edited by Matilda
Joslyn Gage, at Syracuse.—Ex.


THE MEMORIAL.

	The following memorial was presented in
Senate and House, June 15, by Senator
Terry and Speaker Randall.
	"To the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States in Congress as-
sembled.
	"Whereas, The acknowledged errors,
discrepancies and incompleteness of the
ninth census render it an unsatisfactory and
unreliable record of the population, wealth,
industry and physical, mental and moral
condition of the American people, and,
	"Whereas, The home and woman as a
Housekeeper have no place in the report,
only the occupations called 'gainful' being
noted, and more than twelve millions of
American women being overlooked as la-
borers, or producers, are left out in com-
mo[-] with those pursuing disreputable em-
ployments, and not even incidentally named
as in any wise affecting the causes of in-
crease or decrease of population or wealth,
and,
	"Whereas, Gross errors in enumerating
the births, ages, diseases and deaths of


children, are the inevitable result of the
natural barriers in the way of men as col-
lectors of social and vital statistics, who
frequently obtain information, in the lan-
guage of the report, from 'fathers, nurses,
servants, and unsympathetic fellow-board-
ers,' and
	"Whereas, There is obvious justice and
propriety in the employment of intelligent
women to collect vital statistics concerning
women and children; therefore,
	"We pray your Honorable body in enact-
ing a law providing for the taking of the
Tenth census to make provision for the
more careful and just enumeration of wo-
men as laborers and producers; for a record
of the wages of men and women in all oc-
cupations; for a record of causes of pauper
ism, vagrancy, vice, crime, insanity, idiocy,
blindness, deformity and disease; for the
enumeration of all men and women en-
gaged in disreputable occupations; for full
statistics concerning all reformatory insti-
tutions; and
	"We further pray that you will enact
such laws, or amendments, as may be re-
quisite to secure the employment of a fair
ratio of suitable women as collectors of the
Centennial census.
	KATE M. DAGGET, President of Associa-
tion for Advancement of Women.
	Secretary, MARY F. EASTMEN, Mass.
	Treasurer, HENRIETTE S. Y. WOLCOTT,
Mass."
	Auditors, Vice-Presidents, and Directors
number many ladies of distinction from
various states, some of the most earnest
and devoted writers and workers in all that
is elevating and calculated to benefit men
and women. We noticed the names of
Abby W. May, Sarah Andrews Spencer,
Antoinnette Brown Blackwell, Elizabeth
K. Churchill, Prof. Rachel L. Bodily.


For the EXPONENT.
			FOR MOTHERS.

	"Young ladies of the present day are not
so good as their mothers were when they
were girls."
	This and many other similar remarks are
often made by both men and women.
	Permit me to ask one question--Where
does the fault lie?  True, there are outside
influences which have their effect upon the
minds of the young, but I think that if
mothers started in time to give their daugh-
ters the training that Mormon girls should
have, that the girls of to-day would not
only be as good, but a great deal better than
the girls of any other period.
	What are you Mormon mothers thinking
of when you let day after day pass without
ever offering a word of prayer up to that
God who gave you your children, who you
say are dearer to you than your own life
(excuse me, but I sometimes doubt it), to
thank Him for all His tender mercies, and
to ask His blessings to rest upon you, to
guide you in all your labors?
	How many of you take your little ones
at bed-time, and teach them to call upon
our Heavenly Father to bless them, and to
guide them in the paths of love, truth and
virtue?
	If you do it, may God bless you in your
labors, and He will.  If you do not, can
you with a clear conscience, at any time;
call for the blessings of the Father to rest
upon you and yours?  Can you, when your
little ones are sick unto death, expect God
to spare them, as you term it?  He will in
His mercy take them from you, for they
were choice flowers entrusted to your care.


with the hopes of your leading them in
the paths of truth.
	Mothers, let the cultivation of the minds
of your daughters ever be uppermost in
your thoughts.  Let them be Mormons
through and through.  You will save them
a great deal of sorrow, and reap for your-
selves blessings of untold riches.  May the
blessings of God attend your labors.
Mayfield, July 31, 1878.              N.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿		NOTES AND NEWS.

	ONE OF the commendable features of the
Rochester Convention, (and it is one which
should stand as a precedent) was that the
entire convention rose in honor of Mrs.
Lucretia Mott, as a tribute of their high
esteem and just appreciation of one now
bending under the weight of years, whose
white hairs and beautiful smile, with her
quiet Quaker demeanor and cordial appre-
ciation of others, was a potent power in
that great assembly.
	THE "WOMAN'S Journal" of Aug. 3,
contains an article entitled "International
Manifesto." It was signed by Marie Mal-
liani, Countess Traversari. It appeals in
the strongest and most eloquent terms to
the women of Europe to send representa-
tives to the International Congress. She
alludes to the solid support this Congress
would have in distinguished scientists, il-
lustrious and meritorious authors, senators,
deputies and municipal counselors of Paris.
She says, "A man known in two worlds, a
historical personage, whose writings and
sayings have long sustained the thesis that
the inferiority of woman with regard to
civil rights is a manifest injustice, has ac-
cepted the honorary presidency. He is
ready to prove that the social reform which
he seeks for woman (the being who is civ-
illy a minor and morally a slave, as he so
well expressed it) is an object earnestly de-
sired and profoundly felt by him, and that
he is ready to break a lance in its cause,
even as he has broken so many against all
sorts of oppression; injustice egotism and
abuse of power."
	That man is Victor Hugo. The writer
appeals to Madame Maria Goegg of Gene-
va, President of the International Associa-
tion for the Defence of Woman's Rights.
She explains "the five Swiss codes which
put the Swiss women on a footing with im-
beciles, and married women below the
grade of minors, will be a spur to them."
	In another paragraph she says: Sisters—
Germans, Spaniards, Portuguese, Holland-
ers, Russians, daughters of Scandinavia
and Denmark! honor us with your pres-
ence, assist us with your councils, aid us in
your inspirations. Towards the close of
this brilliant letter she calls upon the noble
supporters of the scientific emancipation of
Woman, students of generous Zurich which
gathered together the flowers of female in-
telligence, while the narrow jealousy * *
shut the doors of English and Scotch Uni-
versities in your faces do not fail to come
and rejoice with us at the triumph of a
great philosophic idea, sustained by Maz-
zini, Stuart Mill, Lord Beaconsfield, Jacob
Bright, Fawcett, Trevalyan, Courtney,
Legouve, Emile Girardin and many others
she enumerates, of distinguished men and
women.
	MISS ABAGAIL Hadassah Smith, one of
the famous Smith sisters of Glastonbury,
Conn., who practically protested against
"taxation without representation," depart-
ed this life July 23d, eighty-two years of

[Column 2]
age. There were five sisters but none of
them ever married; Julia Eveline is the
only one  living, and she is eighty-six.
Miss Julia is a literary woman and has dis-
tinguished herself by translating the Bible
from the original Hebrew and Greek. Miss
Abby is said to have been the business
manager of the household, and her loss
will be most keenly felt by her sister Julia,
who always counseled with her on all sub-
jects of importance. The funeral was char-
acteristic of the family eccentricities. The
Hartford Post says *  * "The services at
the funeral were very simple. A gentle-
man, an old friend of the family, read a
part of the 6th chapter of St. John and the
latter part of 1st Corinthians, these chap-
ters having been read at all funerals in the
family. No prayer was made, Julia's relig-
ious views being similar to those of her
father and mother which were, that minis-
ters were of no use, and that the system
that maintains them is entirely wrong. To
pay for having the Gospel preached—to
have men fit themselves for the pulpit for
the purpose of earning their bread and
butter by it, which in the majority of cases
is  the truth, and which is simply making
merchandise of the Gospel—these things
they maintained were disastrous to all true
religion. Julia's father gave up his pulpit
after having preached five years, his con-
science not allowing him to preach any
longer. He said the whole theological sys-
tem was upheld by money, take that away
and it would fall flat. And so in accord-
ance with these original and sensible ideas,
the family have worshiped in their own
peculiar way, and kept their religion a pri-
vate, sacred affair between themselves and
God, claiming that no hireling preacher
should come between them, and their own
individual interpretation of the Gospel.
And so none of the common ceremonies
and no prayers were said, save the silent
prayers of the lone woman and those who
sympathized with her. After the chapter
was read, Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
made some very appropriate remarks, and
the quiet sleeper was borne to her long
home."
	The sisters Julia and Abby, it is said,
were strongly attached to each other, and
Miss Julia will be very lonely, but she will
have the sympathy of a great multitude of
friends. These sisters have done much by
their persistent resistance of paying taxes
to rouse others to a sense of the injustice of
woman's being taxed and having no vote
and no voice in making the laws by which
she must be governed.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	SCIPIO, MILLARD CO., UTAH,
	August 2d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society in this place was or-
ganized July 29, 1870, and was in a quiet,
humble and meek condition.  The mem-
bers endeavored to assist the poor and dis-
tressed, and also donated means to bring
our poor brethren and sisters f[-]om their 
native lands here to Zion; and have like-
wise donated liberally, considering our
means, towards the erection of the St.
George Temple.  Mrs. Sophrona Martin
had been the President from the first or-
ganization of the Society, but at our An-
nual meeting, in 1877, she resigned her
office, and Mrs. Elizabeth Yates was elected
in her stead.  The officers and members are
energetic in the discharge of their duties,

[Column 2]
and in accordance with the wishes of our
late lamented President Brigham Young,
are storing up grain for a day of famine.
Last year the President called on the sis-
ters of the Society to go into the harvest
field to gather up the golden heads of grain,
that would otherwise have been destroyed.
The sisters responded heartily to the call,
and children from four years old up to
eighty-nine went in the field to glean, and 
I think if you could have seen us you
would have thought we were in earnest;
this season we calculate to perform the 
same labor.  The sisters have purchased a 
city lot, paying one hundred dollars for it;
we have planted it with two hundred and 
fifty mulberry trees, and calculate procur-
ing more as quickly as possible.  We ex-
pect this fall to erect a good and substantial
building for the purpose of holding our
meetings in and storing away our grain.
The plan was resolved by the sisters, that
straw should be procured for the purpose of 
braiding and manufacturing men and boy's
hats; also that we would procure cloth to 
make overalls, pants and shirts.  We have
also been making quilts, knitting stockings,
crocheting tidies and lace, etc.
	Our Annual Meeting was held July 29th,
the officers were re-elected as follows:
	Elizabeth Yates, President,
	Lorinda Thompson,
	Mary Croft,
["Counselors" is typed next to "Lorinda Thompson" and "Mary Croft"]
	Mary Wasden,
	Eliza M. Wasden,
["Secretaries" is typed next to "Mary Wasden" and "Eliza M. Wasden"]
	Annie Brown, Treasurer.
	Our Society numbers one hundred and 
twenty-one.  Our Financial Report from
July 29, 1877, is as follows:
Donated to the Society..............$73 42
Disbursed to the poor................ 71 77
Have now in treasury, in quilts and 
	sundries.................................... 19 46
Grain stored amounting to......465 bu. 31 lbs.
	There are several copies of the EXPONENT
taken by the members of the Society here,
and the instructions are read with great in-
terest.  Your sisters in the Gospel, etc.,
	MARY WASDEN, Sec'y,
	ELIZA M. WASDEN, Ass't Sec'y.

	MILLVILLE, CACHE CO., Aug. 6, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I do not think Millville has ever been
represented in your paper.  Our Relief So-
ciety is in a flourishing condition; we have
lately been re-organized, with Sister L.
Hovey President; she is truly alive to her
duties, and the sisters all seem willing to
assist in doing all the good they can.  We
have not much grain stored, on account of 
grasshoppers last year, but hope to do bet-
ter this year, as the harvest is abundant.
	We meet once a month to bear testimony
to the things of the kingdom, and talk over
our affairs in general; we also have work-
ing meetings once a month, to sew for the 
sick and helpless, and make quilts, etc. for
the poor.  We have a Young Men's and a
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation.  I believe that a great deal of 
good will come of these societies.  We
have just had the pleasure of a visit from
the young Elders, J. F. Wells and M. H.
Hardy, and it was truly a feast to both old
and young.  Hoping we may ever follow
the counsel and instructions of those placed
to preside ovor us, and improve in all good
works, is the desire of your sister in the 
New and Everlasting Covenant,
	VICTORIA L. CUMMINGS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To take out Mildew:  Mix soft-soap, powder-
ed starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a
lemon. Paint both sides of the linen with the
mixture; put it out on the grass till the stain
comes out.
	Fruit Pudding: Take one bowlful of thick
cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful saleratus; mix
gently and roll it about an inch in thickness, then
spread it with fruit of whatever kind preferred,
and roll it up in a clean cloth and boil it or steam
it two hours; it may be eaten with cream and
sugar.
	Borax Used in Washing:--Quarter of a pound
of refined borax to five gallons of water; powder
the borax; dissolve it in boiling water, in the
above proportion, and use.  It is an excellent
bleacher, and may be used for the most delicate
laccs even; it also saves soap.  A little pipe-clay
dissolved in the hot water cleanses very dirty lin-
en with half the soap required without it.
	Cleaning woolen goods:  The soap-tree bark
(Quilaya saponaria) is highly recommended for
cleaning wool materials.  This article can be pro-
cured at the drug stores.  Break a piece about
two inches square into small bits, and pour over it
half a pint of boiling water; let it stand an hour
or two, then sponge the collar of a coat, or any
soiled article of wear, with the liquor; a second
sponging with clear water will clean it nicely; both
washing and rinsing water should be warm; both
blue and black materials may be cleaned thorough-
ly in this way, also hair-cloth upholstery which
has been soiled by contact with the head.


A TRADER in Boston, being asked the
character of one given to poetry, described
him as "one of those men who have roam-
ings after the indefinite, and divings after
the unfathomable, but who never pay
cash."--EX.


DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
[-]econd South Streets.

Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.



Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom	to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of [-]ome Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, lo call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
 Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
Proprieters.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
 All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINK GREGORY,
97 Kimball Block.
Salt Lake City.


TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
73 MAIN ST., Basement of Taylor's Hotel.
P. O. BOX 1080.
LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S 
FOR 
Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
CHEAPEST IN THE CITY.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER, 
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings,  Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys’ Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.
THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
HOME MANUFACTURED GOODS
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUIIDING,
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.	
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE’S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.
THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
Mrs.	H. E. Strickland.

ROMANIA B. PRATT, 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co’s Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of 
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR

RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 308, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pot at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to  C. R. SAVAGE
Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further informatiom.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt  Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
In connection with the above, Ladies’ Hair Work in
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.
NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 1, 1878.	No. 7.


For the EXPONENT.
	TIME AND I.

I have a friend, the oldest one
	Upon the record of my years,
Who, watchful how my life doth run,
	Upon its every scene appears.
Never in haste, and never late,
	Silent, yet firm, he follows me;
Though I forget, or smile, or hate
	His presence, there is he-
When but a child, with ne'er a thought
	Of him, whether to blame or praise,
Each day some newer gift he brought,
	And woke my mind to fresh amaze.
What fairy stories then I heard,
	Of wondrous things I yet should see;
'Till I forgot the singing bird,
	And wistful, left my mother's knee.
Watching life's phantoms luring on
	The eager soul, through passing years;
I lost my treasures fast as won,
	Though pledged by hope and bought by tears.
And whether it be just, or wrong,
	To set such sentence in my rhyme,
The loss of youthtime, treasure, song,
	I charge it all, dear friends, to Time.
And when I name him gravely, s[-],
	It is because I can but see:
For all his vows made long ago,
	How little is fulfilled to me.
If in my glass I chance to look,
	(He told me time should make me fair)
I see youth's bright, fresh face he took,
	And left a weary woman's there.
And thus defrauded and denied
	Of woman's solace (as some say),
I pay a sigh to wounded pride,
	And quickly look the other way.
If from my heart upswells the song—
	(Time said my voice should grow more sweet),
And I my quavering notes prolong,
	My patient friends at last retreat.
Thongh I remonstrate 'gainst his will,
	And every firm resolve declare,
'Gainst all my arts, I find his skill
	Has added silver to my hair.
And though resigned to yield the rose
	The cheek in earlier years did wear,
I tremble now, for ah! who knows
	How soon he'll leave a wrinkle there.
Yet though he cheat and wound me sore,
	His tyranny an end must find,
For when I reach the other shore,
	His majesty must stay behind.
Ah! an immortal there to dwell,
	O'er loss and change no more to sigh;
With all life's promises fulfilled,
	How blest! to bid Old Time, good-by!
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	August 6, 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS ON THE WOMAN QUES-
TION.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we see all thinking, far-seeing,
prophetic minds impressed with some
mighty principle, crude and chaotic though
it may be, and is, for there is ever the
germ, the nucleus to all things great and
small--but when we see such minds shaken
up--the "moving of the waters"--then look
for the Angel of Truth to descend to re-
store, to purify, to elevate, to invigorate,
and cause all such to pass from "under the
rod" and emerge into their native element,
from which they have been excluded, pro-
bably for wise and just reasons; we must
believe this, because God is a God of love
and justice, and all effects spring from
causes governed and controled by the grand
Potentate of the universe.  God is the Fa-
ther of all spirits, both His sons and His
daughters; can any thinking, reasonable
mind believe that He cares less for His
daughters than His sons?  Common sense
and the common feelings natural to every
parent negative such an idea.  Look into
the mechanism of woman as she came from
the hand of her Creator--study well both
mental and physical organism, study the
exquisite sensitiveness of both.  Her soul
--yes, she loves much; this shows that
God has bestowed on her a larger portion of
His Spirit.  What will she not bear and en-
dure for those she loves--her husband and
her children most especially?  Witness her
fortitude under trial; often in such has she
been indeed a help-meet unto man, and he
gratefully owns it; for there are very few
men who will not readily give to woman
the praise due her, if he has been the re-
cipient of her helping life! I maintain
that men can and do appreciate a good and
faithful wife; such words do not mean a
soft, obedient simpleton, who has not judg-
ment enough to decide what is right and 
what is wrong, but by a good wife I mean
a true friend, who studies his interests, his
welfare, his happiness, and even in the
small (?) affairs of every day life studies
what will please him, what will comfort
him, and shuns all that would annoy him;
if she requires something of him that she
thinks he will not grant, watch for the mo-
ment when his mind is unloaded of its
cares and he feels gentle and conciliative,
and I feel sure she will get her wish, if it
is within his reach.  I could elaborate this
subject, but enough is said--"a hint to the
wise is sufficient."
Young wife, do not think this too much;
it is, I assure you, only a hint. Would you
not act precisely the same to your brother,
or your sister, or friend, were you living
with either?  Surely you would.  There is
no subservience in doing right, such is
merely "the rudiments of an angel."
This is the age when the minds of the
masse, as I said in the beginning of this
article, when the minds of all nations seem
impressed with the desire to elevate wo-
man to a sphere from which they realize
she has declined, and to which all just and
candid minds desire to help to restore her.
There have been women in all ages who
have stood forth on the stage of life as the
Prima Donna of the age, showing the being
God made, and which men and the world
have unmade! and she has also helped to
unmake herself!  The last is the most
dreadful of all; to misrepresent ones self is
a fearful thing.  Alas! woman has done it,
and is still doing it, though many are awak-
ening to the great fact that she is a daugh-
ter of God, and equally responsible with
man for her course in life, where she is not
coerced.
	The woman question is the subject of the
day and age in which we live; I feel it will
be a work of time, as all great revolutions
usually are, yet I feel sure it is especially
woman's era, and that a change must come,
when woman can indeed be a helpmeet for
man.  Man is the brother of woman, her
co-partner; she is his sister, and they must
be co-operatives in the grand business of
saving life.  May each become more en-
lightened and walk understandingly, not
in plain ignorance of their mutual position,
of their inseparable "duetts."  I feel that
the generality of women need instruction
on that subject as much as men.  I have
seldom, if ever, seen a man who refused to
a woman the place she had worked herself
up to by her own ability, even if in some
measure she supplanted himself, if she was
really capable o[-] filling it, and he knew it;
he naturally loves a woman who is indeed
and in truth a helpmeet to him.  How
many a good man has been spoilt, ruined
often for the lack of just such a woman!
and many an inferior man has been raised
up to a platform from which he never after
descended, by the love and admiration he
has felt for some woman, who has come
like an angel of light upon his path, and
has walked side by side with him through
his after life, finding that "her ways were
ways of pleasantness, and all her paths were
peace."
	Let woman study herself, cultivate her-
self, her character, disposition temperament
and temper, holding her own, maintaining
her native dignity, knowing and asserting
her place, by simply taking the chair that
belongs to her, and then quietly and un-
sleepingly retaining possession with full
capability; and I assure you such a woman
will have all the queenship she craves, be
it what it may, for she will be irresistible,
and her own mind and her own character
will be to her a kingdom, over which she
will love to reign, and rejoice therein.
S. L. City, Aug. 24, 1878.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS FRANCIS E. Willard, the famous
Temperance Lecturer, delivered an address
upon that subject Tuesday evening, Aug.
20, at Yarmouth Camp-Ground.  Miss Cof-
fin, of Brooklyn, first made "some very
practical and forcible remarks on intemper-
ance, as seen in New York and its suburban
cities."  Miss Willard, it is said, held her
audience with an undivided attention.
"The ministers seated around and in front
of her proved by their eager listening atti-
tude that they had entirely forgotten St.
Paul and his ancient commands."
	THE DISTRESS caused by yellow fever is
truly appalling.  Deaths and new cases of 
the disease are daily telegraphed from the 
infected localities.  Calls for nurses and 
comforts for the sick are constantly being
made.  The Howard Associations seem to 
have contributed liberally, and the Irish
Relief Association now solicits aid from all
the Irish organizations and societies
throughout the country.  A telegram has
been sent to His Excellency President
Hayes, respectfully requesting him to ex-
ercise his discretionary power in appoint-
ing a special committee of the oldest physi-
cians and chemists in the country to invest-
tigate scientifically the cause, nature [and
treatment, and future prevention of this
fearful epidemic.  The dispatch is signed
by a number of prominent gentlemen of 
Memphis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
HEBER CITY, WASATCH CO.,
July 30, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
We were favored with having our beloved
sisters, Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina
D. Young on the stand, for the first time in
Heber. It was what we had long hoped
for.  President Margaret Muir, of the Re-
lief Society, with her Counselors, and Pres.
Anna Duke, of the Y. L. A., with her
Counselors, were also present on the stand.
After singing and prayer, President Muir
made a few opening remarks, expressing
her pleasure at the sisters' visit.
Miss Snow arose and said she was glad
to see so many of the brethren taking so
great an interest with the sisters of the
Relief Society.  She did not know how it
was with the sisters here, but if we were
united we could do much good.  The
Prophet Joseph Smith said that all the sis-
ters should be members of the Relief So-
ciety, and in Nauvoo chastity was a test of
fellowship. Let us learn refinement, honor
our positions, and go to meeting to get
spiritual food.  Let mothers pay their tith-
ing honorably, teaching their children to
observe these things, for it is mothers that
give tone to society.  She felt that she had
no spare time but what should be devoted
to the interest of Zion; she had many times
worked so hard before meeting time that
she had to pray to the Lord to give her
strength to get to meeting.  She was thank-
ful she had never spoken against Celestial
Marriage.  Some sisters had asked her "How
long shall we suffer these trials?" she an-
swered, until they are no longer a trial,
until we have got the victory over them.
Spoke of home-industries; dared not call
for a vote, lest we should be ashamed. She
told us to exercise faith, that the time may
come when we can raise mulberry trees
here.  The Prophet Joseph said the curse
would not be taken off the earth all at
once.  She said, speak not evil one of an-
other, for they that feared the Lord spoke
often one to another, and a book of remem-
brance was kept.  She did not wait for the
Lord to force her when she was told to do
anything. Made some further remarks in
regard to storing up wheat and planting
out beans.
Mrs. Zina D. Young next addressed the
meeting. She said:  "My brethren and
sisters, if I did not know this to be the
work of God I would not be on this stand;
but in the strength of the Lord we can do
what is required of us.  A gentleman said
to President Joseph Smith, 'How do you
control this people?'  He said he told them
what to do and they governed themselves.
The key to the baptism for the dead has
been restored, and the faster we work for
the dead the sooner they will be made
comfortable.  Jesus, in his mission, when
hungry and faint, had to pluck the ears of
corn by the way."  Referred to paying
tithing, for it will be by observing the laws
that we can be saved. * * *  She
said we needed the Holy Ghost at all times
and in all our business.  Spoke of evil in-
fluences that have crept among the people;
let mothers have a strict care of their
daughters, for they had better die than de-
file their bodies, for it will take a long time
to have the stain removed.  She said that
many who now seem to be in the shade
and pass unnoticed, will shine bright in
the kingdom of God.  The Lord has plant-
ed within us the germ of intelligence.
Never speak against the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, never mind who laughs at
it, but keep humble, we have got good
rulers.  When your little girls are eight
years old let them join the Young Ladies'
Association.  If the sisters would take the
EXPONENT, those who are able, and those
who are not club together and take it, it
would be a good help to them.  It would
be well if some of the ladies of Heber City
would go and learn medicine and surgery--
learn to set bones, rather than have to send
to a doctor who is not of our faith.  A doc-
tor was sent for to set a bone for a little
girl, and he said she would be a long time
before she would walk; but the sisters of
the Relief Society washed and anointed
her, and she recovered fast.
Pressdent Hatch endorsed what the sis-
ters had said, and was glad they had come
to visit us, He also would like some of
the ladies of Heber City to study the pro-
fession of medicine and surgery.
In the evening Miss E. R. Snow and
Mrs. Z. D. Young addressed the young la-
dies and gentlemen of Heber City.
Relief Society Quarterly report, from
May 2d, 1878, to August 3, 1878:
Donations received..................$4 05
Disbursed to poor..................... 3 15
Balance in Treasury................. 4 00
Wheat in store for Zion.............30 bu
ELLEN LEE, Secretary.
MANTI, Aug. 11, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Report of the meeting held in this city
June 18th, by Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D.
Young and party.  We feel that we were
very greatly blessed by their brief sojourn
in our midst, and we hope and trust that
Providence will so order events that their
visit, with its attendant blessings and en-
joyments, may be repeated at no distant
day.  The subjoined is a copy of the min-
utes of that most interesting occasion.
The Society met by special appointment.
Opening prayer by President Petersen.
Choir sang "Come thou glorious day of
promise," also "When all thy mercies, O
my God."  The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted, after
which Miss Eliza R. Snow addressed the
meeting; said if the sisters wished to be
edified, they must lift their hearts in prayer
to God.  She spoke of the organization of
Relief Societies in the days of Joseph the
Prophet, said that Chastity was then a test
of qualification for membership.   *  *
Exhorted the sisters one and all to come
forward and become members of the Re-
lief Society, lest the few who were per-
forming all the labor should also receive all
the reward.  She felt thankful that she had
been permitted to maintain her integrity
and was still numbered with the faithful.
Spoke of the necessity of working out our
own salvation, if we ever expect to attain
it, and of the folly of wasting our talents
in seeking after the things of this life, and
thereby imperiling our soul's salvation.
The speaker then dwelt at some length
on the duties of Relief Societies, said that
it required much determination and wis-
dom to relieve  the wants of the poor in a
proper manner.  She thought it was the
duty of the Society to furnish suitable labor
for those who were able to work, and should
furnish gratuitous aid judiciously, and
guard against being imposed upon.  She
spoke very forcibly and understandingly
upon the duties of mothers to their chil-
dren, and also upon the necessity of meet-
ing together often, as she thought it assist-
ed the sisters greatly in overcoming the
trials of their life.  Said the sisters who
could never find time to go to meeting
would certainly fail to make her home
pleasant and happy.  Contrasted her with
the sister who takes pleasure in attending
the meetings of the Society, and neglects
none of the duties pertaining to life here-
after.  She dwelt at some length on the
subject of home-manufacture, and in the
course of her remarks requested all the la-
dies present who wore home-made hats to
rise to their feet, but was surprised at the
smallness of the number; she advised the
young ladies to make their hats as beauti-
ful as possible, but by all means to let their
adorning be the work of their own hands;
Said it was folly for us to sustain Babylon,
when we were able to sustain ourselves, if
we would only take steps in the right di-
rection.  Said we should bear all our trials
in humility, and should by no means do
wrong because wrong is done to us, and
that we should turn a deaf ear to false sym-
pathizers and strive to overcome our evil
natures.
Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed her plea-
sure at meeting with the sisters, and of the
good things to which we had already list-
ened.  She spoke of the beauties of Celes-
tial Marriage and of the ordinance of bap-
tism for the dead as a part of our religion.
Spoke of our duties to ourselves and to each
other, said if we each acted well our part
every day it was all that would be required
of us.
Exhorted the sisters to provide suitable
reading for their children, and made special
mention of the EXPONENT and "Juvenile
Instructor."  She then exhibited some
specimens of home-made silk, and exhorted
the sisters to increase their diligence in its
manufacture, that they might make their
apparel beautiful without any aid from
Babylon.
	Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, of Spring City, ex-
pressed her pleasure at meeting with the 
sisters, and bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said.
Mrs. Amelia Goldsborough, of Nephi,
preferred to listen rather than speak, but
felt willing to respond when called upon.
Mrs. Petersen and Mrs. Williams, of Eph-
raim, bore a faithful testimony to the truth,
and hoped the sisters would redouble their
diligence in home manufacture.
Pres. Maiben felt thankful to the visiting
sisters for their kindly words of good cheer,
and hoped we should all go on our way re-
joicing, in consequence of the many good
words that had been spoken unto us.
Brother Folsom said he felt highly hon-
ored by having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of the goodness
of God towards His people, if they were
only willing to receive His instructions.
He hoped the sisters would influence their
husbands to renewed diligence in working
on the Temple.
Mrs. Rebecca Wareham announced a
joint meeting in the evening for the Young
Ladies' and Young Men's M. I. A., and
heartily endorsed what had been said by
those who had spoken, especially that
which relates to home-manufacture.  Sang
"Let Zion in her beauty rise."  Benedic-
tion by Pres't. Maiben.
R. WAREHAM, Sec'y.


We have on hand for publicatian R. S.
Reports from Mink Creek, Wellsville, Mill-
ville, Hyrum, Spring City, Ephraim, May-
field, also some Correspondence, Woman’s
Voice, and Poems.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	A MOTHER'S TRIBUTE.

'Tis fourteen years ago today since heaven sent to me
A winsome, black-eyed baby-girl, as sweet as she could be;
And when I took her in my arms, her cherub face to
	view,
I felt a strange, ecstatic joy, that thrilled me through
    and through.
I watched my darling as she grew, so artless, pure and
	mild,
And sometimes sighed to think that she could not remain
	a child;
But now that fourteen sunny years have fled since she
	was born,
She seems as much a babe to me as on that natal morn.
And thus, I think, 'twill ever be—as on the seasons roll,
The babe will still remain a babe, while tarries here my
	soul;
Yet, should she live, the time must come when she will
	surely see
A woman in her looking-glass, whate'er my thoughts
	may be.
And when that time does come, I know her mirror will
	reveal
The face of one whose character is bright as polished
	steel;
She'll be as full of love and faith and pure as she is now,
And virtue's self will sit enthroned upon my darling's
	brow.
'Tis true she'll find life's pathway strewn with thorns as
	well as flowers,
And she, when sorely pierced, may sigh for childhood's
	happy hours;
But whether she be filled with foy, or 'neath the chast'-
	ning rod,
She'll have the same dislike for wrong, the same sweet
	trust in god.
My darling, oh my darling! As time speeds on his way,
You'll find another love than mine to comfort you some
	day—
A deep and thrilling sentiment. which you will think di-
	vine,
A love that may be mere intense, but not more true than
	mine.
'Tis right that you should make new friends as through
	the world you glide,
I cannot hope to keep you, love, forever at my side;
'Tis right that you should form new ties—'tis nature's
	great behest;
Nor would; [clip thy wings, sweet dove, to keep thee in my
	nest.
But this I know—whate'er your lot, wherever you may
	rove,
You[-]l still possess, in all its depth, a parent's holy love;
Whether beneath the parent wing, or on life's troubled
	sea,
God bless my bonnie, black-eyed girl—wherever she may
	be.
	A. L. B.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.
	We prospered in all our efforts to accu-
mulate wealth, so much so, that among
our friends it came to be remarked that
nothing of my husband's ever got lost on
the lake, and no product of his exportation
was ever low in the market, always ready
sales and fair prices.  We had neither of
us ever made any profession of religion,
but, contrary to my early education, I was
naturally religious, and I expressed to my
husband a wish that we should unite our-
selves with one of the churches, after ex-
amining into their principles and deciding
for ourselves.  Accordingly, we united our-
selves with the Campbellites, who were
then making many converts, and whose
principles seemed most in accordance with
the Scriptures.  We continued in that
church, which was to us the nearest pat-
tern to our Savior's teaching, until Parley
P. Pratt and another Elder preached the
Everlasting Gospel in Kirtland.
	Sidney Rigdon was then a great Camp-
bellite preacher.  He received the Gospel
at the house of Isaac Morley, who, was the
[---] to embrace the truth in that Vicinity.

[Column 2]
When I heard that these Elders were
preaching without money, or remuneration
of any kind, and more especially when I
knew Bro. Morley had received them into
his house and had united himself to their
faith, and that they were opposed to all
priestcraft, I felt an earnest desire to hear
their principles proclaimed, and to judge
for myself; accordingly, I went immediately
to hear, and as soon as I heard the Gospel
as the Elders preached it, I knew it to be
the voice of the Good Shepherd. and went
home rejoicing, to tell my husband the
news; he was convinced that I was entirely
sincere, and wished to hear them, that he
might also receive with me a full assurance;
he asked me if I would wait for him to be-
come convinced, that we might together
enter the fold through the waters of bap-
tism; but  strong "impression bore witness
in my heart, that now was the accepted
time, and the day of salvation." I had then
a babe in arms and two older children liv-
ing, and two I had laid away until the Res-
urrection.  My convictions were so strong,
that much as I desired my husband to par-
ticipate in these blessings, I felt impressed
that I must not wait, and I was baptized
immediately.  My husband, however, ex-
amined the doctrine and was himself bap-
tized within a few days.  This was in Nov.,
1830.  Soon after this many false spirits
began to manifest themselves, and many
were deceived by these misrepresentations;
the power of these spirits was terrible;
some persons under their influence imag-
ined  they could read the word of the Lord
out of their own hands in letters of gold;
it was a terrible time of temptation.
	In December of the same year, Joseph
Smith, with his wife, Emma, and a servant
girl, came to Kirtland in a sleigh; they
drove up in front of my husband's store;
Joseph jumped out and went in; he reached
his hand across the counter to my husband,
and called him by name.  My husband, not
thinking it was any one in whom he was
interested, spoke, saying: "I could not call
you by name as you have me."  He an-
swered, "I am Joseph the Prophet; you
have prayed me here, now what do you
want of me?"  My husband brought them
directly to our own house; we were more
than glad to welcome them and share with
them all the comforts and blessings we en-
joyed.  I remarked to my husband that
this was the fulfillment of the vision we
had seen of a cloud as of glory resting upon
our house.  And during the time they re-
sided with us, and under our roof, were
many of the revelations given which are
recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants.
	Just previous to the Gospel being
preached in Kirtland I had made all need-
ful preparations for a visit to my parents in
Connecticut; but after receiving the Gos-
pel I abandoned the idea, determing to
devote my life, my energies and all that I
possessed, towards sustaining and building
up the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
My whole heart was in the great work of
the last dispensation, and I took no thought
of my own individual comfort and ease.
Joseph and Emma were very dear to me,
and with my own hands I ministered to
them, feeling it a privilege and an honor
to do so.
	Aunt Sarah, who had always lived with
me, and felt a sort of supervision of every-
thing pertaining to my welfare and happi-
ness, and who had been a true and faithful
friend to us, under all circumstances, was
very much disconcerted by the turn things
had taken; she looked upon Joseph like all
other preachers, and did not like to see us

[Column 3]
made the dupes of priestcraft, which was
her version of all religious doctrine and
opinions; and acting upon her own theory
and responsibility, when my husband was
absent with the Prophet Joseph upon busi-
ness, and I was in delicate health, and un-
able to attend to any domestic duties, she
took the opportunity to rid herself and us
of the family, considering it not only an
incumbrance, but an entirely unnecessary
inconvenience.  I would have shared the
last morsel with either of them, and was
grieved beyond comparison when I found
what she had done; but she had a good
motive in it, and really thought she was
consulting the best interests of those who
were far dearer to her than her own life;
her devotion and her power of self-sacrifice
towards us individually were unlimited,
but her efforts, like those of many other
sincere and ardent friends, were misdi-
rected.
	(To be continued.)


VISIT TO RELIEF SOCIETIES.

	Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. Davis returned Thursday eve-
ning from the Northern and Eastern settle-
ments, where they have been visiting the
sisters' organizations, holding meetings, etc.
These sisters were received everywhere
joyously, and cordially welcomed, every
hospitality and courtesy extended them to
facilitate the interests in which they were
laboring. The people came out in crowds
to greet them welcome, and to bid them
farewell on leaving in the different towns.
They were hungry for the spiritual instruc-
tion these sisters were able to impart to
them. The sisters organized Young La-
dies' Mutual Improvement Associations in
three districts; assisted the Bishop at Hen-
neferville in re-organizing a Relief Society,
also assisted in organizing a Relief Society
in Echo City. The sisters in their meet-
ings advised the Societies everywhere to
maintain a spirit of unity, to co operate to-
gether in home-industries and all good
works; to become self-sustaining as fast as
possible; and those who were aliens to be-
come citizens, by taking out naturalization
paper. Instructed them on the subject of
the franchise, the benefits resulting from
it, and urged them to avail themselves of
the privilege allowed women in this Terri-
tory, in voting, and to seek to understand
the subject of government.
	These sisters have been absent nearly a 
month, except Mrs. Horne, who joined
them in Ogden at the Relief Society Con-
ference, and has been traveling with them
two weeks. They have held twenty-nine
meetings, sometimes three in one day.
They visited Mendon, Hyrum, Wellsville,
Paradise, Brigham City, Ogden, Morgan,
Richville, Milton, Littleton, Croyden, East
and West Porterville, North and South
Morgan, Echo City, Coalville, and Henne-
ferville.
	A tour like this for a lady of Miss Snow's
age is rather wonderful, and there are few
women in the world who would think they
could endure the fatigue of traveling as she
does at her time of life. The party have all
enjoyed excellent health during their absence
from home, although much of the journey
from place to place had to be performed in
lumber wagons. We expect to publish a
fuller account of their visit and labors in
our next issue.


WE are haunted by an ideal life, and it
is because we have within us the beginning
and the possibility of it. --Phillips Brooks.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   - Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building; East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
        SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
	﻿EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK.

	Various methods have been taken in differ-
ent parts of the United States, to secure the
same remuneration for labor to women as is
given to men for the same class of work. On
this subject more has perhaps been said in fa-
vor of women teachers than any other depart-
ment of labor, possibly because there are more
women engaged as teachers in proportion to
men than any other work. Statistics are
brought forward to substantiate the value of
the services of men and women in dollars and
cents, as estimated by their employers and
those who have charge of educational bureaus.
The increase in the proportion of women
teachers within the last thirty years has been
exceedingly great, especially in New England,
and the price of their work has risen, too,
though perhaps it has not reached a just pro-
portion to the labor as yet. In  most cases there
is a vast difference in the wages of men and
those of women employed as teachers. “But in
some States, as in Iowa, the rule is becoming
general to pay men and women the same sala-
ry for the same grade of work. In the city of
St. Louis no distinction is made between the
sexes in fixing the teachers’ salaries; and the
California Legislature of 1873 enacted that the
female teachers in the public schools should in
all cases receive the same compensation as men
for like services. A few of the Southern States,
which employ more men than women, pay the
same salary for the same work to both sexes;
and Idaho, Nevada and Arizona report the
same custom.”
	Some of the most noted men of the time, well
acquainted with educational labor in all its va-
rious departments have borne this testimony
in favor of women teachers, believing them to
be better adapted to the work than men. Hor-
ace Mann considered the growing increase of
women teachers a great reform, on account of
their superior adaptability to the work. The
prices paid to teachers of both sexes now is
very much higher than formerly, and the
qualifications necessary to secure situations are
very much greater.
	In the primitive days of the country, and in
rural districts especially not so very long ago,
and even yet in some remote localities, teach-
ers did not necessarily possess a fountain of
knowledge on any subject—in fact the govern-
ment was considered the chief requisite, and
“Can she make the children mind?” was more
often asked than any other question, in refer-
ence to a teacher. Ruling with the rod was
THE RULE, and wo to the refractory urchin, as
many of the grandfathers and grandmothers
of to-day can testify.
	The custom of boarding round, which was
some years since very common, is now almost
abolished, though Harper's Monthly Magazine

[Column 2]
for September says that 'it is still in vogue in
many places, and that in one district in Penn-
sylvania all the teachers receive $15 a month
and board in this manner. Who but the vic-
tim himself (or herself) can describe the mise-
ries of boarding round in rambling country
villages—of living for a week or month on tea
and pie, and then only exchanging the fare for
pie and tea; of sleeping under leaky roofs, up-
on pillows which the rains and snows of heav-
en bedow; of shivering in breakfast rooms
where, if a drop of water fell upon the table-
cloth, though the stove be in close proximity it
is instantly frozen? And yet the physical dis-
comforts are often the least of the homeless
teacher’s trials.”
	There is much hard labor and much real pleas-
ure connected with teaching, and in our opin-
ion a great deal depends upon fitness and adap-
tability to the work. It is said by some it is
woman’s special mission to teach and we agree
in this assertion, but all women are not good
teachers, nor do all succeed well who under-
take it. Because persons possess a good store
of information on the subjects to be taught, it
does not follow that they can impart it to oth-
ers understandingly, but teaching like other
avocations not only requires preparation and
training, but one must have a love for it either
natural or cultivated; great patience and the
peculiar tact of being comprehensive in im-
parting instruction.
	When a person having tact, talent, education
and a desire to impart knowledge to others,
enters the profession as a teacher it is but just,
such a person should receive suitable remuner-
ation for services rendered. The mere fact of
being a woman should not deprive one of the
worth of their labor. It seems simply absurd
to make all sorts of worn-out pretexts against
woman’s wages being equal to man’s in such
classes of work as she can perform equally well
and many times even better.
	The very fact that women continue in the
occupation of teaching, longer than men,
should militate in favor of their receiving at
least as large a salary as men do. Slowly wo-
man’s cause is advancing, and the good exam-
ple set in St. Louis, Iowa and some particular
sections of the country, will be emulated by
others, and by thus securing justice to women-
teachers it will give encouragement to continue
in the labor to those perhaps who might oth-
erwise grow weary in the work, for however
enthusiastic one may be—one must eat and
drink, and provide for the wants of nature,
and often single women employed as teachers
have aged or invalid relatives dependent upon
them, or orphaned children of those beloved.
Teaching is hard work, and should be well-
paid, and teachers do a great share of the work
of molding and making society. The mothers
form the groundwork perhaps, the teacher
builds on and weaves in, and although people
think little of the teachers Individual princi-
ples or religion, yet this should be one of the
first considerations, for teachers have much to
do in forming the mind and character of the
pupil.
	The writer previously referred to in this ar-
ticle says in speaking of women continuing in
the employment of teaching. “Those who
contend that teaching with women is apt to
be a temporary resort more than with men,
have only to look around them to become con-
vinced of their mistake. Almost any New
Englander can count among his personal ac-
quaintances women who have taught from
fifteen to thirty years, and who will probably
die in the harness. One of the Boston teach-
ers—a single woman—died recently after teach-
ing in one of the primary schools for forty

[Column 3]
years.” Col. Higginson’s report when one of
the school committee in Rhode Island gave
the average time of service in teaching of men
and women—female teachers, eight—seventeen
years; male teachers, three—eight years.
	It seems to us as if every clear-headed intel-
ligent person should at once recognize the fact
that equal services equally rendered should of
themselves demand equal remuneration in
whatever department or class of labor. And
in these days when so much is said about jus-
tice, it does seem exceedingly strange that
there should be any quibbling on the subject.
There are many other classes of work beside
school-teaching that want equalizing and the
world will come to it by and by, and the fact
of sex will not stand in the way of equal pay
for equal work. There is a good time coming
and this will be one of the issues of that good
time.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN COMPLIANCE with requests made by sev-
eral ladies, Dr. Ellen B. Eerguson will open a
medical class for ladies on the 1st of October.
The course will inclnde instructions in Anato-
my, Physiology, Obstetrics, Puerperal Diseases
and Diseases of Children. Instruction will
also be given in the medicinal properties of
herbs and plants, and their uses in domestic
practice, thus enabling those who are at a dis-
tance from proper medical aid to meet the ear-
liest symptoms of disease intelligently. Those
applying immediately for tickets can pay a
portion of the fees in grain, dried fruit, or pro-
duce. For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson,
First East Street, or to the Editor of the EXPO-
NENT.
	THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.—Through
the politeness of Mrs. M. J. Tanner, we have
received the Circular of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo, Utah Co. The Academical year con
sists of four terms of ten weeks each. The
first term commenced August 26, 1878. The
Academical Department consists of four
courses:
	1st. Commercial Course Bookkeeping. The-
oretical and Practical Commercial Arithmetic
and Penmanship.
	2d. Polytechnic Course—Algebra, Geometry,
Surveying and Drafting.
	3d. Scientific Course—Chemistry, Physics,
Geology and Natural Philosophy, alternating
as follows: Mineralogy In the 1st Term, Botany
2d Term, Zoology 3d Term, Physiology 4th
Term.
	4th. Language Course—Rhetoric, Phono-
graphy, Latin and German.
	In connection with this there is a complete
Normal Course, theoretical and practical,
which extends over a period of two Academical
years. Practical teachers may attend for a
much shorter time, special provisions being
made for their benefit. There is also a Musical
Department in operation. The B. Y. Academy
is in charge of Prof. Karl G. Maeser, with com-
petent assistants in different departments.
	ELDERS JUNIUS F. Wells, Milton H. Hardy
and John Craner returned Tuesday, Aug. 27th,
from a short Missionary tour in the interest of
the Y. M. M. I. Associations. These brethren
have been absent two months, and have visited
and held meetings in Box Elder Cache, Bear
Lake, Rich, Morgan, Summit and Wasatch
Counties. They have effected Stake organiza-
tions of the Y. M. M. I. A. in these Counties,
have held sixty meetings, in the interests of the
young people’s Associations, have advocated
monthly joint sessions of the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Y. M. M. I. A. They have advised the As-


sociations everywhere to secure libraries and to
make these libraries the repositories of Church
works, introducing a systematic programme for
mental work which aims to popularize the
study of the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Church
History—these forming a solid, religious basis;
afterwards introducing Histories, Books of
Travel, Biography, and such a class of reading
as tends to cultivate a taste for a high order of
literature. Everywhere these young brethren
have been received gladly, and the most hos-
pitable welcome extended to them.  Their aim
has been to suggest the best methods for spirit-
ual educational work, and awaken a growing
interest on the subject of improvement in the
hearts of the young people, by introducing
regular methods of disciplining the mind and
heart. Many of the meetings they held have
been very numerously attended, and no doubt
much good seed has been sown that will event-
ually bear rich fruit.
	GRADED SCHOOL—On Monday, Sept. 2d, a
thoroughly Graded School will be opened in
the Social Hall, under the supervision of Miss
Ida Ione Cook, whose superior qualifications
as an efficient teacher are well known.  Special
attention is to be given to deportment, obedi-
ence and honesty as well as to study. The
Grades are, Primary, $3 00; Intermediate, $4.00;
Grammar, $5.00.  The Grammar Grade will be
in charge of Miss May M. Wells, who has had
a good practical experience in teaching, and is
thoroughly qualified in all the various branches
taught in this department.  Miss Anna Lynch,
teacher of the Intermediate Grade, has been
very successful in securing good behavior and
atten tion from her pupils heretofore, and is
well qualified for the position.  Miss Louie
Snelgrove, in charge of the Primary Grade,
stands pre-eminent among teachers in that
line.  Miss Mary E. Cook, the Principal and
Founder of this school, has taken great pains
to qualify her teachers, and has insisted upon
thorough work.  She is absent now, having
gone recently to St. George, to aid in that vi-
cinity in establishing and getting into work-
ing order a system of Graded Schools. Miss
Cook, having had much experience in teach-
ing and preparing others, is eminently well
qualified for this department of educational
work, and has already accomplished much
towards furthering the interests of education
in this Territory.  Her unselfish devotion to
the cause of education, and untiring persever-
ance under the most unpropitious circum-
stances, deserve the highest encomium of
praise from those who have received the bene-
fits of her arduous labors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE TO THE SISTERS.

	WITH A desire to disseminate and increase a
true knowledge of the laws of life and health,
I intend delivering a course of five lectures,
comprising the different phases in woman's
life from the cradle to the grave. This is to be
a popular course, adapted to the understanding
of every maiden, wife and mother, in a mea-
sure divested of technical terms and abstruse
points, but calculated to prepare woman for
the great and responsible duties of motherhood.
"Know thyself" is a maxim particularly suited
to woman, and when she is properly educated
a certain portion of the medical science will
be made an important part of that education.
If a husband, or father, desires to confer a fa-
vor upon his wife, or daughter, that will prove
of lasting benefit, let him give her the oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the laws
that govern her own organism, and it will in-
deed redound to her welfare as well as to the
vital interest of future generations.
	In addition to the above, I will teach a class
in Obstetrics and Direases of Women, with the


object of qualifying women for the important
offices of nurse and accoucheur. Every Ward
in our city, and especially should every town
and village in the Territory, be provided with
one or more persons thoroughly trained and
educated for this avocation. Not many days
since, our Brother, Hon. G. Q. Cannon, re-
marked, "I have no doubt but many lives
could be saved, if this knowledge was more
widely spread." Our own experience will en-
force the truth of these words, for how fre-
quently we hear of women's lives being jeop-
ardized and lost for want of a skill and knowl-
edge in the proper season. Then, in the lan-
guage of the great statesman, "We must edu-
cate! We must educate!!"
	This undertaking is one long premeditated
and advised, by those who have the best inter-
ests of the whole people at heart, and we hope
it will be endorsed and supported by our breth-
ren and sisters throughout the Territory.  Any
communications on the subject address to
	E. R. SHIPP, M. D.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We, the young ladies of the 17th Ward Mu-
tual Improvement Asseciation, desire, through
the columns of the EXPONENT, to express our
sympathy for the family and friends of our de-
parted and much loved sister and friend, Miss
Florence Emily Dunford.
	As a member of our Association, she was
punctual and ever ready to perform the parts
assigned her.  As a Sabbath School attendant,
she won the esteem of her teacher, Mrs. Julia
Howe, and her class-mates, by her attention
and lady-like manners.
	We know she has gone where sorrow and
pain are no more.  Her departure certainly
teaches the uncertainty of life, even in youth,
and it now remains for us to lead such pure
lives that we may join our dear Flossie when
our time shall come.
	MISS BELLE CLAYTON, President,
	MISS SEDENIA PACK, Ass't Secretary.

	DIED, in Fillmore City, Aug. 7, 1878, of
Cholera Infantum, Charles Francis, son of
Charles R. and Rhoda Alice McBride, aged 2
years, 3 months and 19 days.
	Little Francis, pure and loving,
	Gently passed from earth away.
	MARY A. MCBRIDE.

	[From "Deseret News."]
	DIED, In Coveville District, Cache Co,, at 8
p. m., Tuesday, Aug. 20th, from the effects of
severe injuries received, both internal and ex-
ternal, by the falling and rolling of a horse,
William Frederick, son of Mark and the late
Ellen Comish Preece.
	Deceased was born at Franklin, Oneida Co.,
Idaho, November 19th, 1867.
	At Alpine City, Utah Co,, Utah Territory,
on Saturday morning, August 24, 1878, princi-
pally of heart disease, Matilda, wife of Bishop
Thomas J. McCullough, of Alpine, aged 37
years and 10 months.
	Sister McCullough had been more or less af-
flicted for five or six years past, a portion of
that time suffering intensely, and for the last
three months her sufferings have increased un-
til it has been almost surprising how a human
being could bear it, although every attention
and care that could be has been used by both
family and friends for her re[-]ie[-].


The funeral services were held at Alpine
meeting-house on Sunday, when very excel-
lent remarks were made by Bishop L. E. Har-
rington, of American Fork, Elders Wm. H.
Kelsey, of Springville, and Wm. J. Strong, of
Alpine. The singing of the combined choirs
of American Fork and Alpine, was both beau-
tiful and appropriate. The citizens, en masse,
of Alpine, as well as many from Salt Lake and
the neighboring settlements, showed their
grert respect for the deceased and bereaved, by
their presence and expressions of sympathy.
The services were concluded at the cemetery
by a dedicatory prayer by Father Zebedee Colt-
rin of Spanish Fork. The sympathy for Bro.
McCullough and family in their bereavement
is unanimous.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Aug. 6[-]h, 1878.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	According to your request that I should re-
port as soon as we got started in this new move,
which is called the Primary M. I. A., I now do
so with pleasure. On Sunday, Aug. 11, 1878,
Bishop Hess and Counselors ordained and set
apart three persons to preside over the Associ-
ation spoken of, your humble servant being one
of the number, and Sisters Louisa Haight and
Helen M. Miller, Counselors. At the sugges-
tion of the Bishop we visited nealy every
house in the Ward, and registered the names
of one hundred and fifteen boys and one hun-
dred girls between the ages of six and fourteen
years, excepting a few who would be six years
old in a few months. I think this idea of
Bishop Hess a good one, for a number of the
people had heard nothing about it, and there-
fore would not have sent their children. The
people generally have entered into the spirit of
the move, and say, "anything for the improve-
ment of our children.
	On Sunday, Aug. 25th, we held our first
meeting. It was not quite a success, on ac-
count of unforeseen hindrances and some of
the children not knowing the hour of meeting.
After making an attempt to class them (for we
think it best to commence at district number
one, and place so many boys upon a bench,
calling them a class, taking the oldest one of
the number and placing him at the head as
monitor, in order to have their help and give
them a little responsibility; proceeding in the
same manner with the girls,) we explained
why they had been called together, and what
improvement meant, after which we adjourned
until Sept. 7th, which will be on Saturday;
the hour to be three o'clock p. m., and we ex-
pect to hold meetings weekly. Am anxious to
hear from other wards, as I have heard nothing
as yet.
	Your sister and co-laborer,
	AURELIA S. ROGERS.


A DREAM.

	MISS EVE CHARLSON.

	The night before Elder Thaine went to visit
them she dreamed she saw two large pillars,
and between them a very high place, and a
man standing upon it with an upraised sword
in one hand, and a great multitude of people
standing around looking and listening to him;
and on each pillar was inscribed in large letters
these words:
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.
	Mount Pleasant, Canada.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	RELIEF SOCIETY QUATERLY CON-
	FERENCE. 

	WEBER STAKE OF ZION.

	This Conference was held in the Taber-
nacle in Ogden City, Thursday and Friday,
Aug. 15 and 16; the first two day's meet-
ing the sisters have ever held, which makes
it quite an event in the history of the wo-
men of Utah. Mrs. Jane S. Richards, with
her Counselors, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs.
Sarah A. Herrick, presided.  Conference
opened at 10 a.m. on Thursday.  On the
stand with the officers of Relief Society
Stake were Pres. D. H. Peery, of Weber
Stake of Zion, and some Bishops of Ogden,
Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville, and re-
presentative ladies, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E. Davis,
of Salt Lake City.  The Conference opened
with singing and prayer, in the usual man-
ner; then the Secretary, Mrs. A. M. Frods-
ham, read the minutes of the last Quar-
terly meeting, Financial Report of Ogden
Relief Society, and the reports of the va-
rious branches of that Stake.  The congre-
gation was large, and sisters from all the
settlements in the county were present.
The reports were creditable, representing
the condition of each branch spiritually,
industrially and in benevolent and charita-
ble pursuits.  Pres. Richards made a few
congratulatory remarks, and Miss E. R.
Snow then addressed the meeting in her
usual spiritual and interesting manner.
Pres. Peery then spoke appreciatively of
the labors of the sisters, in benevolence, in
storing grain, in doing business, and all
the associations and pursuits in which they
are called to labor.  Elder Shirtliff, of
Harrisville, spoke upon faith and the ordi-
nances for the sick, storing grain and other
subjects.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Convened at 2 o'clock.  After opening
services Mrs. M. I. Horne, Pres. of Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, addressed the
meeting. Her remarks were mostly upon
woman's duties and responsibilities, the
work of Relief Societies, the storing of
grain, the training of children, the fran-
chise, the inheritance of daughters; re-
ferred to the days of Moses, when the Lord
spoke concerning the daughters of Zeloph-
iad.  Miss E. R. Snow then delivered an
eloquent address upon the disciplining and
educating of children, their spiritual culti-
vation, evil influences and their effect;
made reference to the origin of a plan to
inaugurate a system of Primary Associa-
tions; alluded to the faith, gifts and bless-
ings manifested among the children in the
the early days of the Church, and the lack
of them at the present time.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith thought it was time
for parents to awaken to the exigencies of
the hour, for we wanted our little boys to
become Bishops and great men, and our
little girls companions and helpmeets for
them.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young exhorted the sisters
to live their religion, honor God and His
laws, and live faithfully every principle of
the Gospel; if it was plural marriage, honor
it, hold it sacred, and the Holy Ghost would
bless and strengthen all who desired to
carry out the revelations of God.  She said
we have been resting here thirty years, is it
any compliment to us to send our children
away to be educated?  Should we go to the
nations of the earth to gather in scattered
Israel, and let our children grow up in infi-
delity? She believed much of the unbelief

[Column 2]
could be traced to the fireside, and the ne-
glect of parents to fulfill duties that were
sacred.  Bishop Hammond, of Huntsville,
commended the sisters for their earnest-
ness and diligence; felt the Relief Socie-
ties were a great help to the Bishops. Pres.
Richards made some brief remarks and in-
vited the little children and parents to
meet at the Tabernacle at half past eight
on the following morning, when Miss E. R.
Snow and other sisters would speak to them
on the subject of a Primary Association.
Thus closed the first day of the Conference.
	&HILDREN'S MEETING.
	At half past eight o'clock on Friday
morning the Tabernacle was well filled with
parents and children, anxiously expectant,
and when Miss Snow rose to address them
they were all attention.  The Spirit of the
Lord rested upon the speakers, and all felt
it to be a memorable occasion.  The Secre-
tary recorded the names of nearly three
hundred children who desired to become
members of a Primary Association.
	Conference convened at 10 o'clock on Fri-
day.  There were present on the stand, be-
sides the President of the Stake and Coun-
selor Middleton, officers of Relief Society,
and ladies who were present the previous
day, Elder D. M. Stuart and Prof. Monch,
of Ogden, Junius F. Wells and Milton H.
Hardy, who are traveling together in the
interest of Y. M. M. I. A., and Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. S. M.
Heywood and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt
Lake City. The first business was the re-
ports of the Y. L. M. I. A., read by the
Secretary, Mrs. R. Monch, who acquitted
herself excellently well in that capacity.
The reports represented the Society in good
condition, spiritually and financially.  Mrs.
E. B. Wells addressed the meeting, dwell-
ing upon practical development, and the
higher cultivation of mental powers and
spiritual attributes, the mission of woman,
her influence in home and society, and the
necessity of becoming self-sustaining.  Mrs.
S. M. Kimball said in the past the sisters, in
their organizations, had been mostly en-
gaged in works of charity and benevolence;
now the sphere was enlarged, and one of
the subjects we should inform ourselves
upon was social science, for the women of
Utah had a responsibility resting upon
them in this direction.  Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood spoke upon the training of children,
the work now in contemplation among
them, the great field for woman's labor,
and the need of wisdom and diligence.
Bishop F. A. Brown said he always liked
to hear women talk; said the Saints had
many things taught to them that the world
would not receive; in our weakness we had
received them, and in seeking to carry
them out we sometimes made crooked
paths; we are all in the school and trying
to do better.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Meeting convened at the usual hour, and
opened with singing and prayer.  Mrs. H.
A. Snow addressed the meeting on woman's
organizations generally, the good results,
the efforts made to establish home-indus-
tries in Box Elder Co., of the increasing
responsibilities of woman and the need of
grace and humility.  Msss E. R. Snow then
spoke upon the principles of the Gospel,
the duties of home-work, the listlessness of
the Saints, the mission given to us in the
spirit world, warned the sisters not to be
governed by their feelings, but by princi-
ple. Made some excellent remarks upon
Celestial marriage, told that large congre-
gation that the principle of plural marriage

[Column 3]
was taught her by Joseph Smith the Proph-
et; related part of a conversation between
herself and the wife of the American Min-
ister to Greece; the lady acknowledged
that if she had such testimony as Miss
Snow assured her she had, she should for-
get herself in her desire to fulfill her mis-
sion.  Miss Snow closed by saying the or-
ganization of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber
Stake would be deferred for the present.
Mrs. E. Davis made a few remarks, and re-
cited a poem upon "Plural Marriage," com-
posed many years since by John Jaques.
Counselor C. Middleton said the majority
ruled; and as women were greatly in the
majority he was acting under orders in
speaking. Spoke upon the responsibility
of mothers, the home education, the storing
of grain, and many other things.  Bishop
McQuarrie said he remembered once talk-
ing to a congregation of sisters when it
was too stormy for the brethren to turn out.
Spoke of the grain and granaries, and
urged the brethren to assist the sisters in
this matter.  Elder David M. Stuart said
the sisters were a power in Utah and it was
being felt here and elsewhere; said the
Bishops in Ogden were going to help the
sisters in building granaries.  He felt that
the sisters were assisting socially and reli-
giously to establish the government of God.
President Richards announced the adjourn-
ment of the Conference for three months,
and the meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
	These are but a very few of the many
precious things spoken by the sisters and
brethren. It is impossible to publish all,
there is so much good instruction given,
but this being the first two-days' meeting
we felt it would be a precedent for other
Stakes, and we know there is much work
to be done and comparatively few earnest
and efficient workers.
	Financial report of all the branches of
Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion,
from April 30th to Aug. 14th, 1878:
Receipts, in Cash and Merchandise.$199 30
Disbursed to those needing assis-
	tance.......................................... 122 23
To P. E. Fund..................................... 7  90
To Temple Fund............................... 67  40
To Missionary Fund.........................  2  00
To Welsh Fund.................................    18 00
	Total					 216 63
Property on hand............................... $1301 67
Cash on hand......................................    71 04
Wheat reported..................................      478 1/4 bu.
Amount of cocoons raised not known.
	A. M. FRODSHAM,
	Recording Sec'y R. S. for Weber Co.


ANNIVERSARY DAY.

NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION. 

	We have gathered, from the "National
Citizen and Ballot Box," items concerning
the Convention held in Rochester on Fri-
day, July 19, in the Unitarian Church. In
our issue of Aug. 15 we published notes of
the Business Meeting held the day previous.
At ten o'clock the delegates assembled; the
pulpit had been removed, making a larger
platform for the speakers. Rochester, now
called the "City of Flowers," had contrib-
uted of its beauty to the adornment of the
church, in bouquets, in twining wreaths
running through the low wire lattice, about
the platform, and in hanging clusters of
vines from chandeliers."
	"There was a pleasant interchange of
greetings from women whose homes are far


apart, but who are friends and co-workers
in this great reform." We would be glad
to republish more of the speeches made
and letters read than our small space will
admit of, but will try to give to our readers
extracts of importance from some of the
best speeches and letters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton occupied
the chair, and made the opening address.
	"We are here to celebrate the third de-
cade of woman's struggle in this country
for liberty.
	Thirty years have passed since many of
us now present met in this same church to
discuss the true position of woman as a
citizen of a republic. The reports of our
first conventions show that those who inau-
gurated this movement understood the sig-
nificance of the term "citizens."
	At the very start we claimed full equality
with man. Our meetings were hastily
called and somewhat crudely conducted;
but we intuitively recognized the fact that
we were defrauded of our natural rights,
conceded in the National Constitution.
* * * * * *
	Look at the department of education,
the doors of many colleges and universi-
ties thrown wide open to women, girls con-
tending for, yea, and winning prizes from
their brothers.
	In the working world they are rapidly
filling places and climbing heights unknown
to them before, realizing, in fact, the
dreams, the hopes, the prophecies of the
inspired women of bygone centuries.
	In many departments of learning, woman
stands the peer of man, and when by high-
er education and profitable labor she be-
comes self-reliant and independent, then
she must and will be free.
	The moment an individual, or a class, is
strong enough to stand alone, bondage is
impossible.
* * * * *
	Some of our opponents attack us with
the same old weapons in use thirty years
ago; though ever and anon, as new phases
of the question have arisen, new weapons
have come into use. When a number of
women in this city, with Susan B. Anthony
at their head, went to the polls and voted,
Henry R. Selden, in his constitutional ar-
guments in their defence before the United
States, forged a good supply of Minnie guns
and Columbiads, which have done us good
service.
* * * * * *
	Much has been accomplished for the civil
rights of woman. The laws and customs
touching her property, education and labor
have been essentially modified and im-
proved, but her political rights are still ig-
nored.
* * * * * *
	I would remind the gentlemen present
that the enfranchisement of woman in-
volves your interests as deeply as our own.
We are so indissolubly bound together that
whatever degrades woman lowers the status
of man also. Our growth is your develop-
ment, our hope your inspiration, our long-
ings your triumph; our success your vic-
tory."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIVATE-CORRESPONDENCE.

LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS.
	July 12, 1878.
To—
	Dear Sister:—Your kind and very wel-
come letter of the 20th of May reached
me about June 12th. It gave me much

[Column 2]
pleasure to receive a letter from one of my
sisters who has labored so long for the same
cause that I am now laboring; one who
knows the joys and sorrows of those who
are called to leave home and friends and
take up their abode on the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	I do not feel as though I could tell you
anything about my feelings—the anxieties
for the folks at home and the lonely hours
that I have spent thinking about them—
for it would be old to you; you have gone
through it yourself and know all about it.
But you can sympathize with me, can't 
you?
	Although I am very lonesome at times,
and feel as though it would be a great plea-
sure to be able to step in and see mother
and the rest of the dear ones once in a
while, still I am a great deal more con-
tented here than I expected I would be
when I left them.
	Last Friday I received the sad news of
the death of my dear little niece, Lucy. It
made me feel more homesick than I have
felt since I have been here; she was such a
fine, healthy child when we left home, I
did not think of her going to her mother
so soon. I had just been talking to Sister
Molen about her that day, and saying what
a comfort she would be to her father when
she got larger. The Lord giveth and the 
Lord taketh away, and we must learn to be
reconciled to whatever we have to pass
through.
	We were called to part with one of our
native friends last Friday, Kaohenauna, one
of the men who was called to go to Utah at
the last Conference. He was at work on
Thursday, went home and ate a couple of
"Sand-spiders," I expect you will know
what they are, and was taken with cramp
and vomiting. He died at 7 o'clock, only
being sick one day and night. His funeral
was held at the schoolhouse, at 2 o'clock on
Sunday, and his body was followed to the
grave by over two hundred people. I ex-
pect you were well acquainted with him,
for he has been in the Church a great many
years. He was the father of the youngest
of the two native women who live in the 
19th Ward. He had saved about one hun-
dred dollars towards taking himself, wife
and child to Utah, and expected to go with
the first missionaries that were called home.
He was very anxious to get there and have
his wife sealed to him before he died, for
he has not been well for a long time; he
has been troubled with a very bad cough.
His wife and child are intending to go and
have the work done for him The boy is
about fourteen years old; he has been liv-
ing with us ever since we went to keeping
house on the Island.
	It was not at all hard for me to accustom
myself to the food and manner of living
here, though I would much prefer the way
we have at home. All the white associates
I have are the missionaries from home. I
have made the acquaintance of one lady
since we came here, but she is only half
white. She is a very nice woman, and 
very aristocratic in her manners and habits.
Mr. Hassenger, her husband, who is a
white man, has been keeping the ranche of
a Mr. Campbell, at Habuku, about seven
miles north of here, but I understand they
are about to leave the place and go back to
Honolulu, where they resided before they
came to Habuku. They sent a native over
to say they would call here and spend Wed-
nesday night. They have three very nice
daughters, the eldest about sixteen years.
	We have not had any one call here since
I came, excepting the Queen and party,
consisting of the Queen, her sister, and

[Column 3]
Miss Mary Pitman, a half white, and Mr.
Charles Judd, besides six servants. They
took one meal at the plantation house, and
spent the rest of the time at Lucy's, the
girl who used to live with you. The Queen
invited us down there to take supper with
her; we all went, and spent a very pleasant
evening. I had quite a talk with Miss
Pitman; she said she was in Salt Lake
City last winter, and that she took dinner
with you, and had a very pleasant time.
They stopped at this place two days, and
seemed very much pleased with the way
the people are getting along.
	My husband has been gone to the Island
of Kanai between two and three weeks,
and I am here alone, with the exception of
my baby, who is a great comfort to me in
my lonely hours. Remember me kindly to
the family and inquiring friends. Bro.
Molen got a letter from Bro. —— last
Monday. If you see any of my folks, give
my love to them and tell them that we are
all well. I have finished my sheet, so I
will now close. Hoping this will find your-
self and family all enjoying good health, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
	SARAH DEAN.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Reports of the General Retrenchment
Meeting, Saturday, Aug. 17; Counselor
Zina D. Young presiding. The President,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, was absent, traveling
with Miss Eliza R. Snow through the set-
tlements of Morgan Co., and holding meet-
ings with the various organizations of sis-
ters.  The meeting was addressed by
Counselors Zina D. Young, B. W. Smith,
P. Woodruff and E. Howard, also by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Pixton, and Dr. Wm.
Smith.  One interesting feature of the 
meeting was the reading of the minutes of 
the Juvenile Association, by Miss Alice
Merrill.  This Association is composed of
little girls, all under eleven years of age.
The minutes were full of the simplicity
and sweetness which characterizes child-
hood and reminded one forcibly of the Sa-
vior's words "Except ye become as little
children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom
of heaven."  The sisters who spoke dwelt
much upon the necessity of improvement,
the training of children, the benefit of fire-
side teaching, the storing of grain, and
home industries.  Mrs. Young spoke of
her recent visit with Sister E. R. Snow to
Provo Valley, the peaceful influence among
the sisters wherever they went; of being
in Logan at the Conference, when they de-
posited in a stone box the Church records,
in a corner pillar designed for the purpose,
and the sister's conference at Ogden.  Mrs.
Howard gave a brief account of her visit
to Randolph; said the Relief Society there
had a good house of their own to meet in,
wth plain, substantial furniture.  They
raised no grain there, but were going to
sell some stock owned by the Society to
buy wheat to store up.  Mrs. Woodruff, in
her remarks, said the low price of wheat
now, reminded her very forcibly of the fam-
ine in Egypt—they had seven years of 
plenty previous to the seven years of fam-
ine.  Spoke of one poor place in the coun-
try where the sisters saved Sunday eggs
for the Temple, and in there months it
amounted to forty-one dollars.
	Many good ideas are suggested in these
meetings for the benefit of all, and much
practical as well as spiritual instruction is
imparted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CIRCULAR OF SPENCERIAN BUSI
	NESS COLLEGE.

	Mrs. Sara A. Spencer, who has endeared her-
self to the Mormon people by her defense of
the rights of Mormon women in the National
Capitol, is Vice-Principal of the Spencerian
Business College,Washington, D, C. Prof. H.
C. Spencer is Principal.  This Institution be-
gins its Scholastic Year the first Monday in
September.  The College Course is arranged to
be pursued in two departments—The Practical
English Depa[-]tment and The Advanced Busi-
ness Department. "There are also Incidental
Lectures upon Health, Temperance, Virtue,
Economy, Thrift, Enterprise, General Deport-
ment."  In addition to the regular day train-
ing and instruction there are also evening ses-
sions.  "The design of the Institution is to
prepare those who attend to [-]arn for themselves
a home and a livelihood."  The circular con-
tains a picture of the interior of the Main
College Hall and the College Bank; also a like-
ness of the Professor and his distinguished
wife.  The Twelfth Graduating Class celebrat-
ed their annual public exercises at Lincoln
Hall the present year, with salutations, essays,
and valedictories; and diplomas and certificates
were conferred.
	Mrs. Spencer, previous to awarding the la-
dies their diplomas and certificates, made a
brief address, from which we quote the follow-
ing paragraph:
	"Let a woman, weak, friendless, poor, de-
spondent, only put her foot down metaphori-
cally and actually, and take a position of health,
strength, self-reliance and self-respect, and see
how the ever-abundant life of the universe
flows in.  She is inspired with confidence in
herself, and the world with confidence in her,
and the chances are ten to one she will either
accomplish what she undertakes, or prepare
herself for something better.  * * *
Women who have money and leisure are the
last to prepare for the inevitable day of want
and suffering."
	The design of this college is to furnish prac-
tical preparation for the business transactions
growing out of the great variety of individual
enterprises.


EMIL HOEDEL, the young man who tried
to assassinate Emperor William, was be-
headed at Berlin recently.  He was but
twenty-one years of age.  He asked for
wine and drank to the Commune and the
Social Democracy.
	We have been requested by Mrs. Mary
E. Holt of Hoytsville to correct two errors
which occurred in the Hoytsville Report,
published in our issue of July 15.  The
word treasury was changed to tannery,
and Mrs. Holt's name was published Hoyt.
	THIRTEEN LADIES received the decora-
tion of the Red Cross, recently established
by the Emperor of Russia in honor of ser-
vices given to the sick and wounded in the
Russian army.—Ex.


[Column 1]
DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

[Column 2]
SUSANNA DECK,
Graduated Midwife and Nurse,
FROM THE COLLEGE OF ZURICH IN SWITZERLAND

RESIDENCE—Twelfth Ward, three doors east of H. B.
Clawson's, on South Temple Street.

SARA'S SALVE!
	PURE and harmless, inwardly or outwardly applled.
will prove a great blessing to the afflicted. Spread
it as thin as possible on linen when applied outwardly.
Cover the forehead and tack of the neck over night with
the plaster for neuralgia, around the ears for earache or
roaring sounds, the cheek for toothache. Cover the nip-
ples when sore, or th[-] breast when painful, the back and
chest when aching, the stomach when cramped.  When
suffering from inward complaints, roll some of it into
pills and take from one to five, according to the degree of
pain or condition of the patient.  As clyster, nothing will
equal it.  For burns and frozen hands and feet, it is bet-
ter than any other remedy.  It is excellent for chapped
hands.  It will cure felons in two or three days.  It takes
off dead flesh in a few hours.  It will cure old sores that
have baffled the most skillful doct[-]rs for scores of years.
Lame limbs of years standing it will cure in a week or
two. All kinds of aches or pains or open sores on man or
beast it will cure.  Those that have tried it will not be
without it.
	JULIA S. WINHOLM.
For sale at the Comm[-]ssion House, Salt Lake City.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
	Saleroom to
	NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Milinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
	Second South Streets.
	Special attenti[-]n given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
	Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women. 

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. .Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetr[-]cs, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, 1878. No. 8.


For the EXPONENT.
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE 
CRADLE.

If the hand that rocks the cradle
	Is the hand that rocks the world;
And its banner bright, or sable,
	Is by that same hand unfurled;
If the weal or woe of nations,
	Ship of State is guarded still,
And we find in all life's stations
	Fruits of woman's mind and will,

What should be that hand, oh mother,
	If such power is in its hold?
Who should nerve that hand, oh brotherf
	God's great purpose to unfold?
Hearts that guard the baby sleeping,
	Faith and love the watchword theme,
That the gem within thy keeping,
	May retain its form divine.

And that tiny hands may ever
	Gather flowers most pure and fair;
Little feet may wander never,
	And be caught in evil snare.
That those hands may still reach higher,
	For those pearls of price untold;
That those feet may still draw nigher
	To that city paved with gold.

That same hand that rocks the cradle,
	Must be strong and brave and true,
And be ever wise and able,
	Life's great aim to hold in view.
Truth's fair fields are all unbounded,
	And its fruits most rich and rare;
Heighth and depth are all unsounded,
	And the "Pearl of Price" is there.

So each mother's soul must garner
	Wisdom, knwledge, purest, best;
Seek, in every nook and corner,
	Seeds whose harvest will be blest.
When the toil and ca[-]e is ended,
	And we never more may roam;
When with songs and praises blended,
	God will guide the "Harvest home."
Salt Lake City, Sept, 1878 HOPE.
<S.E. Russell>


For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS.

	Sitting on the porch of a beautiful house,
a little adopted child ran up the steps to
ask "ma" a question. He seemed perfectly
happy, and on learning his history, I
thought how much better his lot here
among the Saints of God, than to be brought
up in Babylon. The best his mother could
do for him, without coming into the church
herself, was to give her boy away to a Lat-
ter-day Saint. I came home, and all day
long the thought haunted me. Why could 
not places be established by our people in
the world to receive fondlings? Would it
not save many innocent lives, be a lasting
benefit to the children, and bring many
into the Church that would probably grow
up and never hear the sound of the ever-
lasting Gospel.
	To-day reading about the "Foundling
Home" in Chicago and the "Orphan Asy-
lum" in London, the same train of thought
again presented itself.
	Many parents are poor and as society ex-
ists now, would certainly far rather give
their children away into comfortable homes,
than to kill them to keep them from starv-
ing to death, which, I have heard, has been
done in Scotland. I do not believe a moth-
er would commit the terrible crime of in-
fanticide, unless she was insane, especially
if she knew a good, comfortable home was


provided for her babe. Orphan children
would not roam the street, fatherless and
motherless, but find new fathers and moth-
ers to care for them. We have enough and
to spare. In this Territory there is no need
of such institutions, but the world is white
for the harvest. 
				EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George, Aug. 1878.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE THIRD general meeting of the Uni-
ted Women's Societies of Germany will be
held this year at Wiesbaden, commencing
on October 2d.
	IN MUNICH lectures have been established
for the higher development of women. The
opening address was given by Dr. Francis
Von Holzendorff; it was very clear and
plain, pointing out that urgent necessity
requires a higher female education.—Ex.
	MANY OF the Eastern papers recognize
the fitness of having a woman-president
for Vassar College. The Orange (N. J.)
Journal recommends in the highest terms
Antoinette Brown Blackwell for that posi-
tion. She is a graduate of Oberlin in
classics and theology.
	SOME RUSSIAN ladies, who were study-
ing at Berlin, recently received a command
to return to St. Petersburg, and were then
accused of being members of a secret so-
ciety. Eight of the number were exiled
to Siberia and condemned to work in the
mines, and two were imprisoned. It is
said they belong to some of the best Rus-
sian families.—Ex.
	SIXTH CONGRESS OF WOMEN, 1878.—A
Sixth Congress of Women will be held at
Providence, R. I., October 9th, 10th and
11th, in Low's Opera House. Executive
session at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2 and
7 p. m.
	At Evening session an admittance fee of
twenty-five cents will be charged.
	Entertainment during the sessions of
the Congress will be provided for officers
and speakers upon application to Miss Mary
E. Eddy, 32 Bradford Street, Providence.
		KATE N. DOGGET, President,
		MARY F. EASTNAN, Secretary.
	PRINCESS BISMARK has preserved all the
simplicity of her youth. She is a perfect
specimen, in the best sense of the word, of
the German Hausfrau (housewife). She is
very quiet, bears her honors as the most
natural thing in the world, holds fast by
the old friends of humbler days, and has
but one great object in life—to make her
husband and children happy. She cares
for them in a peaceful, motherly way; and
her serenity and patience, which have al-
ways secured for Bismarck a quiet home,
have certainly contributed to his success
through life. "She it is," he once said to a
friend, "who has made me what I am."
They have three children—Marie, Herbert
and William. Herbert is his father's pri-
vate secretary; William has studied for
the bar. Both will enter Parliament this
year.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	MADAME EMILE Durand, who is now
one of the literary celebrities of France,
writes under the nom de plume of "Henri
Greville." One of her efforts has just been
crowned by the Academy, and one or more
of her tales have been translated into all
the tongues of Europe. She is a comfort-
able looking lady of thirty-five, and a most
agreeable talker. In her varied experience
she has seen a good deal of the ups and
downs of life, but has now settled down, as
she says, "to making her three novels a
year." Her husband is the Paris corres-
pondent of a St. Petersburg paper, and a
painter.—Ex.
	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Oregon
Sate Woman Suffrage Association was held
in Astoria, Aug. 7, Mrs. Abagail Scott
Duniway, editor of the "New North
West," presiding. The main questions un-
der discussion were Suffrage, Widows'
Rights, Ownership of Children. Mrs.
Duniway seems to have been quite satis-
fied with the success of the meeting. This
lady makes a call through her columns for
a special meeting of the O. S. W. S. A., to
be held at Salem, Oregon, Sept. 25th. She
invites the best speakers and essayists of
the State to be present and participate in
the deliberations. The Convention will
occupy three days and evenings. The con-
vention is called for the purpose of agitat-
ing woman's claims for political enfran-
chisement. Mrs. Duniway is an able lec-
turer and an indefatigable and earnest
worker in woman's advancement. She re-
cently delivered a memorial address to the
Constitutional Convention of Washington
Territory, in behalf of the suffrage for wo-
man, appealing to the members of the Con-
vention to incorporate Woman's S[-]ffrage
in the State Constitution under which they
seek admission into the UNION. The ad-
dress is well written—Mrs. D. makes use of
strong arguments in presenting woman's
claims, and appeals in eloquent language,
which must have made itself felt, coming
from the lips of an earnest woman, in be-
half of her sister-women.


FLOWERS.

	MINISTERS are not like Plato and Aristo-
tle, the originators of their own doctrines,
or the teachers of the doctrines of other
men, but simply the dispensers of the
truths which God has revealed.—Hodge.
	MORALITY without religion is only a
kind of dead reckoning; an endeavor to
find our place on a cloudy sea by measuring
the distance we have to run, but without
any observation of the heavenly bodies.—
Longfellow.
	THE pursuit of something for which we
are not fitted is fruitless; it fails to bring
either happiness or success. If one has
special tastes, or talents, she or he will find
most happiness and do the most real good
by cultivating such faculties, or gifts.-Emile.
	TRUE politeness in every-day life is a
charm that is always becoming. It smooths
out many a wrinkle in human life, it en-
riches the dwelling of the peasant and
gives tone to the home of the lowly.-Emile.


58		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Aug. 31, was one long to be re-
membered. Pres. M. I. Horne, after the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
addressed the sisters, relating incidental
parts of her visit to the northern settle-
ments. She said the meetings had been
largely attended, and the brethren left
their harvest fields to come and hear the
sisters talk; there are many enegetic and
earnest sisters in the country places, desir-
ous of working in unison with the sisters
in Salt Lake in helping to store up grain,
promote home industries and all good
works.
	Coun. E. R. Snow followed, dwelling
more largely upon the organization of Pri-
mary Associations, and the great field of
work open for those who will move in this
matter; that in training the little ones,
teaching them true and correct principle,
we form characters for the Saints of God.
Blessed the sisters for their energy, said
she was proud of those who were taking
hold in earnest to help build up God's king-
dom. 
	Coun. Zina D. Young spoke upon home-
manufacture, and urged the sisters to do all
in their power to promote and sustain it:
felt that we were all capable of sowing
good seed in the hearts of those we meet
from time to time, if we would do so.
	Coun. P. Woodruff said we were privi-
leged in many respects above those in the
country, and should appreciate it. Spoke
upon diligence and faithfulness, and also
upon the importance of little things, usually
considered trifles.
	Mrs. S. M. Heywood’s remarks were
mostly upon the children, the movement
now in contemplation, which she believed
would result in good; felt that fathers as
well as mothers should be interested in this
matter.
	Mrs. E. A. Whitney then made some
good remarks, alluding to the prophecies
of the brethren in the early days of the
Church, and their fulfillment, which in
many instances had been literally verified
in our day. After closing her remarks, she
sang “A song of Zion,” which had a most
inspiring effect upon the entire audience.
	Coun. E. Howard referred to Sister Whit-
ney’s address as delightful, and recognized
through hearing it the need of a Saint of
God being humble and meek, for it was
such God would exalt. She thought those
who would take an interest in teaching and
instructing the children in these Primary
Associations would be greatly blessed.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball, after adding her
testimony to that of the other sisters in re-
gard to her interest in helping to educate
the little ones, morally and spiritually, in
the Primary Associations, and getting the
co-operation of the parents, said she wished
to mention the condition of Sister Whit-
ney. “Her days are almost numbered,
and it seemed as if a part of herself went
out in blessing us this afternoon, and I
asked myself if there was a reciprocity of
blessings for Sister Whitney. I think
there should be, and I feel to say God bless
Sister Whitney, comfort and cheer her
heart; may her pathway be made smooth,
and may honor and blessings be multiplied
on her head forever.” By request of Pres.
Horne, all the sisters present then rose to
their feet, Sister Kimball repeated the
blessings, and the whole congregation con-
firmed it by a hearty Amen.
	Coun. B. W. Smith said she felt the power
of the blessing of the sisters, and exhorted

[Column 2]
the sisters to prepare themselves for the
great day of the Lord’s coming.
	Pres. Horne made a few suitable closing
remarks.

	RICHMOND, Aug. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We had a general time of rejoicing when
our worthy Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis
paid us a visit. They held two meetings
one in the afternoon for the Relief Society,
and in the evening for the Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation. They handed out to us many
choice instructions for our good. I trust
we may treasure them up in honest hearts;
we cannot help saying God bless and pros-
per thine handmaidens “oh Lord who
seek to do good all the day long.” Our an-
nual report was made on the 4th of June;
there was satisfaction among the sisters in
regard to it, although there had not been a
great deal accomplished; circumstances
known to the society accounted for the lit-
tle done. We have sought to do good in
our humble way, we have striven to do
what we have been called on to do, and
such is still our desire, and we ever pray
God to help us, and we desire the good will
of those whom the Lord has appointed to
lead us and all Israel. Notwithstanding
the storms of wind and rain we have a good
harvest; and our brethren are busy in the
field, and at the threshing machine. The
grasshoppers are not unmindful of us, and
are having a long visit. Quite a number
of young children have been laid away
this summer which has caused deep sor-
row in the hearts of their parents. “But
the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away
blessed be the name of the Lord.” We
are now having some delightful weather.
	I will now say good-bye as I fear to
weary you. Your excellent paper is very
welcome, and the good sisters of Richmond
desire to be remembered to the editor.
	Yours in the Gospel of Christ,
	ABIGAIL POND, President,
	BETSY BROWER, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject I have chosen to write upon
is of great importance, namely, OUR HOLY
RELIGION. This is truly a subject that
should engage our attention to a much
greater extent than it really does; we
should strive continually to live nearer our
God, to live in such a way as to merit His
approbation, that we may call down His
blessings upon us and have His Spirit with
us at all times; then will all things be easy
for us, nothing will be too hard for us to
perform, no trial too hard for us to endure,
for the Spirit of the Lord will sweeten the
bitter cup. He does not require anything
at our hands that we cannot perform, and
things that would seem to be great trials
we would then take pleasure in doing. My
dear sisters, let us rise above the frivolous
things of the world; and live so as to enjoy
the Spirit of God; then we will know what
true happiness is. There is nothing in this
world brings the joy and comfort that it
does to know that the course we pursue is
right and pleasing in the sight of our
Heavenly Father. We see this fully illus-
trated here in the UNITED ORDER every
day. The happy faces we meet bespeak
their trust in God, for we feel assured He
will bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commands. We
have been truly blessed and prospered in
every proceeding since our commencement
here. It is very wonderful to see the vast


amount of labor that has been performed
by a few stalwart sons of Israel, in opening
up new farms, and building dwellings.
They built a saw mill first, and sawed lum-
ber to make the frame buildings. They
are now building a dining hall, 56 by 28,
with kitchen in the centre; when com-
pleted we expect to all eat at one table.
All is peace and union here, and all feel as
though they were brothers and sisters in-
deed.
	Some people seem to think it a great
trial to live in this way; I think it a great
pleasure to live so, and feel that we are do-
ing the will of our Father. He will surely
bless and prosper us in all our efforts to
serve Him and keep His commandments.
None of our number have fallen victims to
sickness or disease, we have been blessed
with health, while all around us they have
been called to mourn the loss of near and
dear friends. This I esteem as one of the
greatest blessings we could enjoy. The
Lord has great blessings in store for us, if
we will only live up to His laws and re-
quirements; if we do not there is no prom-
ise to us. Let us be up and doing while
the day lasts, for if we do not soon the
summer will be past, the harvest ended,
and our souls not saved. Now is the ac-
cepted time of the Lord; then let us take
hold with a united effort and help roll on
this work, and never be found fighting
against any of the principles of the Gospel.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing
condition; our number is small, but through
the blessings of God we hope to do much
good. We have a great many kinds of
work under way, which, when, finished,
we expect to exchange for grain to lay up.
		Yours respectfully,
						M. T. WILCOX.
	Kingston, Piute Co., July 7, 1878.


﻿PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN PEDRO RIVER, PIMA Co. ARIZONA,
						August 7, 1878.
DEAR SISTER:
	*	*	*	We lived in tents and wagons
for eighteen months, but we enjoyed excel-
lent health as a general thing, and we have
been blessed with the necessaries of life.
	The sisters of this place were organized
in a Relief Society on the 4th of April; we
are few in numbers, only eleven members.
We pieced one quilt, and a way was opened
to dispose of it; and we believe that if we
do the best we can the way will be opened
whereby we can do much good. We have
had to postpone our meetings the last three
times on account of sickness. There has
been more sickness during the last ten
months than in all the time before since we
left home. My oldest boy has got the chills
and fever, as have also several others of the
Colony, although this is a very pleasant
climate; the winters are so mild; we have
had considerable rain during the past month.
This location is much pleasanter than on
Salt River. There have been three chil-
dren born since we came here. We can
dispose of everything that can be raised,
if we get enough to part with. We have
put in large crops of wheat, barley, oats,
potatoes, onions, cabbages, &c., and the pros-
pects are good for a good crop. Eggs are
seventy-five cents per dozen, butter one
dollar a pound.
	We are surrounded with mining camps;
the nearest is twelve miles from here, and
men are passing all the time with plenty of
money. I like to receive letters from my
old associates; it is gratifying to hear from
the place that was our home so long.
	Your sister &c.,		SYRENA STEEL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		59


[For the EXPONENT.
		HAVE COURAGE TO LIVE.

			BY MRS. M. J. TANNER

Have courage, dear sisters, have courage to live;
	Do each duty, and follow it well;
There is nothing to us can such happiness give
	As to know we've not faltered, nor fell.

It is cowards who shrink from the duties they owe,
	And pause on the highway of life,
And wish to lie down, without credit or crown,
	To cease from their labor and strife.

Have courage to toil, though your labors may show
	But little of profit, or gain:
There's a higher tribunal to judge us, we know,
	And give a reward for our pain.

Though life may be weary and sorrows may come,
	And hopes may be faded and crushed,
There's a light in the sky that will brighten the gloom,
	When the voice of mourning is hushed.

Have courage, dear sisters, to fight the good fight,
	That thy crown may be honestly won;
Look not, in the strife, to the left or the right,
	But gallantly press your way on.

There are laurels awaiting the good and the true,
	And our motto forever should be
Not to dally, or falter, but lay on the altar
	Our incense and offerings free.

	If our lives were all bright, and our hearts always gay,
	No credit nor honor were due,
If our steps did not weary, nor lag by the way,
	But hopefully carried us through.

Have courage to live 'till thy labors are done,
	And the toil of thy life shall be blest;
With a life rightly spent and a victory won,
	We shall enter a haven of rest.

	Provo, Aug., 1878.


PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CONVEN-
				TION.

	HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
		CENTRAL COMMITTEE,
				Salt Lake City, Utah,
						Sept. 10, 1878.

	A people's territorial convention, com-
posed of delegates from the several coun-
ties, will convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, Oct. 7th, at 6 p. m.,
to nominate a delegate to the Forty-sixth
Congress.
	The number of delegates to the conven-
tion has been apportioned as follows (being
based, as nearly as possible, upon the num-
ber of representatives to the Legislative
Assembly):

[Subcolumn 1]
COUNTY	NO.
Salt Lake...........18
Utah..................  8
Juab...................  3
Millard............... 3
Beaver............... 3
Piute.................. 1
Iron.................... 3
Kane.................. 2
Washington...... 2
S[-]vier..............  2

[Subcolumn 2]
COUNTY	NO.
Sanpete...........  5
Wasatch..........  2
Summit...........  2
Morgan...........  2
Davis...............  4
Box Elder........  3
Tooele.............  2
Weber.............  5
Cache..............  7
Rich.................  1
									——
		Total.................................................78

	The leading men in each county are par-
ticularly requested to adopt such measures
as will secure a proper representation at the
coming convention; also to take the steps
necessary before the election as will give to
the candidate chosen by the convention as
delegate, the fullest support of the regis-
tered voters of the people's tioket.
	By order of the committee,
				JOHN SHARP, Chairman,
				THEO. MCKEAN, Sec'y.

	We have published in full the call made
by the Territorial Committee for a People's
Territorial Convention. When women have
the ballot, they possess a recognizable claim


to the title of citizen. And as citizens re-
present the interests of the community in
all public gatherings for the general good
of all classes of people, we hope and trust-
there will be, on the part of the brethren, a
liberal feeling manifested towards the sis-
ters, in allowing them to take part in the
deliberations n[-]w pending. The population
of this Territory is largely composed of wo-
men, and they have the elective franchise,
which means representation in the best
sense politically; women are engaged in
business, in public work of varions kinds,
and with that and having the ballot, should
be entitled to consideration in the body
politic. There is no occasion to fear a femi-
nine element in politics, and that phase
should have free and full expression; phy-
sical strength is by no means the source of
righteous law, and it seems to us that men
should rejoice to take into their political
meetings that part of the human race who
represent most largely its sympathies and
finer feelings. Sir Charles Reed, Chairman
of a public meeting in London recently, in
his remarks said: “It is said that women
wish to enter Parliament, and if so all he
could say was that the assembly would not
be the worse for them. He believed they
would at least be peacemakers and moder-
ate the proceedings very often.”
	It is our belief that a quickening moral
influence would result from the recognition
of women in politics.


TERRITORIAL FAIR.

SPECIAL RAILROAD TERMS TO EXHIBITORS.

	The superintendents of the U.C.U.S.
and U. W. Railroads have generously of-
fered to place at the disposal of exhibitors
of stock and other products, one car for
each road free of charge. This arrange-
ment will enable contributors to the Fair to
send in their exhibits and take them home
at the close of the Exposition, without de-
lay or cost.
	The superintendents have also promised
the usual low Conference rates to all ex-
hibitors. The Directors cherish the hope
that these liberal railroad facilities will be
an additional incentive to make the Fair a
marked success.


TRUE GRIT.

	BY SARAH ANDREWS SPENCER.
	
	The Executive Committee of the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association, after
careful deliberation, have prepared and
will shortly submit to the friends of wo-
man suffrage in the United States, a plan
of work designed to secure action from
Congress upon the two pending Sixteenth
Amendment resolutions, one of them upon
the Senate Calendar, and the other brought
to a tie vote in the House Judiciary Com-
mittee. The following is a brief outline of
the proposed work:
	1. Let all who have Sixteenth Amend-
ment petitions received too late for pre-
sentation during the first regular session of
the Forty-fifth Congress, obtain as many
additional names as possible, and forward
by December 1, 1878, according to previous
instructions, to Washington, D. C., for pre-
sentation during the approaching session.
	2. Hold local town and county meetings,
and take rising votes at the close upon pe-
titions to your own State Legislature, ask-
ing it to pass a resolution declaring it the
duty of Congress to submit to the people


an amendment to the Constitution protect-
ing women citizens in the right of suffrage
	3. Hold State Conventions at State Cap-
tols during the sessions of the Legislature,
and endeavor to secure immediate action
on the above resolution.
	4. Continue the agitation during the
whole of ihe present Congress, and if jus-
tice is not granted, roll up the largest pet-
tions the world ever saw to the Forty-sixth
Congress, laboring meantime to secure the
election of men who will heed them.
	Let the work go on with ever increasing
power and determination, until every Con-
stitution in the land, State, Territorial and
National, secures equal rights to men and
women.—Woman's Words.


GEORGE ELIOT.

	Mrs. Marlon Lewis (George Eliot) is thus
described by a correspondent: “My hand
was held for a moment by a lady in the
plainest possible attire. Somewhat to my
surprise, I found her intensely feminine.
Her slight figure—it might almost be called
diminutive—her gentle, persuasive air,
her constrained gesticulation, the low, sweet
voice—all were as far removed from the
repulsive phenomenon, the “man-woman,”
as it is possible to conceive. The brow
alone seemed to betray her intellectual su-
periority; her face reminded me somewhat
of the portrait of Charlotte Bronte, that
every one is familiar with. Yet there was
no striking similarity; I should rather say
the types of head and face are the same.
When she crossed the room to call atten-
tion to a volume under discussion she
seemed almost like an invalid, and evinced
also an invalid’s indifference to fashion and
frivolity in dress. Perhaps it is half true,
the strange story that I heard in all its va-
riations, for there were those present who
sat transfixed and gazed rapturously upon
the creator of “Romola” and “Adam
Bede.” Every syllable she uttered sank
deep into fertile hearts. I can speak for
the homely home that seemed almost bare,
and for the homely hospitality, than which
nothing can be less pretentious. I shall
never forget the absolute repose of Mrs.
Lowes, the deliberation with which she
discussed the affairs of life, speaking al-
ways as if she were revealing only about a
tenth part of her knowledge upon the sub-
ject in question. With her it seemed as if
the tides had all come in; as if she had
weathered the ultimate storm; as if cir-
cumstance and not desire had swept her
apart from her kind, and left her isolated,
the unrivaled mistress of a passionless ex-
perience.—“Woman’s Words.”


GRATITUDE is a blossom of rare sweet-
ness, its fragrance is ever refreshing, in
this world of careless indifference; it should
be nourished, for it is one of the genuine
growths of a divine nature. Yet we see
much more of the counterfeit than the re-
ality, and it is hard to detect the real from
the unreal, unless we ourselves possess the
true germ.—Emile.


MISS HELEN M. Taylor, widely and popu-
larly known as a strong advocate and firm
supporter of woman suffrage in England,
has been nominated for a member of Par-
liament from Southwark district, London.
Earl Beaconsfield is said to be in sympathy
with the measure. It is thought this will
be a practical test of the strength of the
movement in favor of woman suffrage.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
	PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	In good old New England where our early
years were spent, in the home, in Sunday
School and in Church we were taught that the
Gospel of Christ meant peace and good-will,
that it inculcated great charity, that it taught
its followers to love their neighbors as them-
selves, in fact that to "Do to others as ye
would they should do unto you" was the max-
im ensuring the highest Christian attainment.
Can it be that New England people have
apostatized from the simple faith that was so
strenously enjoined upon us in childhood?  So
it would seem if we can credit what we read in
the columns of a Christian paper.  They
would inflict upon an industrious, thrifty, en-
terprising people the most severe chatisement
by refusing them the right of representation
to citizenship, to the protection which America
through her constitution guarantees to all her
children.  "The Watchman" says "In Utah
women vote.  We shall say nothing here con-
cerning the abstract propriety of giving the
ballot to women."  We judge from this that
"The Watchman" does not believe that woman
has any right to the ballot.  There are men and
women we are conscious, in dear old Mass-
achusetts who will never hold their peace un-
til the franchise is extended to woman, and not-
withstanding the strength and power of the
clergy and others who oppose suffrage for wo-
men, yet they cannot prevent its coming.
"The Watchman" says "In other parts of our
country there is a general conviction that un-
til women of culture and intelligence become
sufficiently interested in political affairs to go
to the polls, it would be dangerous to extend
the franchise to both sexes." "The Watchman"
must know that there are many hundreds of
women in the Old Baby State and other States
and Territories cultivated and intelligent who
are quite sufficiently interested to go to the
polls and vote—and all they lack is the privi-
lege of being allowed to use the ballot.
	And further "It would certainly not be
wrong for Congress to repeal the law giving
woman the franchise, and require conformity
to the almost universal custom of our nation."
Wise counselor, liberal and Christian-like to
wrest the ballot from the hands of a few heroic
women, who driven from their homes, friends
and associations have braved the perils of the
wilderness enduring the hardships, toils and
privations consequent upon a pioneer life.
These self-same women many of them de-
scended from Puritan fathers and mothers and
by every sacred right entitled to protection,
yet compelled to go beyond the borders of civ-
ilization, taking their lives in their hands as it
were, laying down by the way their loved
ones one after another, still enduring suffering
and fatigue, feeling only that God was their

[Column 2]
friend. Now after years of struggling and
poverty, prosperity in a measure has dawned
upon them, and blessings multiplied and even
the franchise extended to them, almost it
would seem, as a gift from God, forsooth these
good, pious people, who preach peace and good
will to all mankind, are afraid to let these wo-
men vote—it increases the power of the Mor-
mons; these women can be disfranchised, that
will be no injustice.  Further, "Congress, in
the exercise of its right to govern the Territo-
ries, should disfranchise those voters, whether
men or women, who are living in polygamous
marriage. * * * We do not know that it
would be proper to disfranchise the offspring of
all unlawful wives; yet even this might be
done, if necessary in order to defeat the politi-
cal views of those who promote the great bar-
barism."  How can this great Republic disfran-
chise her sons, who are by birth entitled to
citizenship, and who have infringed upon no
law?  When "The Watchman" talks at ran-
dom after this fashion, it is time it looked up
the law and studied the Constitution.  That is
something Congress is powerless to do.  "The
Watchman" should stick to religion, peace and
good will, and spare itself the trouble of giv-
ing advice to Congress in regard to disfranchis-
ing an honest, industrious people, who mind
their own business and do not believe in med-
dling; who till the soil, who build up the coun-
try, who maintain just laws and good institu-
tions, who do not encourage vice, or pauper-
ism, or vagrancy, who believe in being self-sup-
porting, who maintain their integrity to God
and their fellow men.
	Further, "The Watchman" says, "Gentile
women, as a rule, do not care to exercise the
privilege of voting, while the Mormon women
are urged and almost forced to exercise it."
This is, indeed, too much.  Mormon women
esteem the ballot a sacred right, and are anx-
ious to exercise it, there is no occasion to urge
or force them, for they have as much at stake
as their husbands have—their lives are insepar-
ably connected, and we would as much expect
to see the wife urging the husband to go to the
polls, or the daughter the father, as the oppo-
site.
	Mormon women know something of the
term liberty, for they have felt the iron rod of
oppression in being [-]riven out without shelter
to perish, as thousands did, and they will in-
graft into the minds and hearts of their chil-
dren the love of liberty and freedom, and teach
their sons to respect the claims of the injured
and the cries of the oppressed, and their daugh-
ters that they are entitled to all the rights and
privileges of free-born American women, and
that neither Congress nor Christian ministers
have any rights to defraud them of their inalien-
able birthright.
	We can forgive the "Watchman" for all its
absurdities, knowing as we do that God rules,
and that although "man proposes God dispos-
es," therefore we say watch and wait and you
will see the salvation of God, in the deliver-
ance of His people.
	And as for women everywhere, "Watchman,
what of the morning?'!  Do you not see the
morning star of woman's destiny in the as-
cendant?  Why the whole civilized world is
becoming enlightened with its beams. In
America, lighting up the dark places, are some
of its brightest rays becoming visible. There
are some wise men who recognize the star, and
who even say "peace and good will" to woman,
and take her by the hand and welcome her to
their circle, and would fain assign to her all
that nature gave her intelligence and capacity
to do, would lift her up to their level in educa-
tion, and in science, and say there is room for

[Column 3]
us both, let us walk side by side.  But in spite of
all, "the blind who will not see," the light will
dawn and they who recognize its importance
and participate in its effulgence will be blessed
and benefitted thereby.  Men and women will
be capable of greater good when they are lifted
to a higher standard, which they never can at-
tain while they are unjust to each other, and
narrow and selfish in their views of life and its
aims and possibilities.
	Surely there is room for all, in this great
country, and protection for all under its glori-
ous Constitutson.


THE STORING OF GRAIN.

	The great prevalence of disasters of various
kinds which tend to famine with its most ter-
rible consequences, should be an incentive to
the sisters who are interested in the storing of
grain and other products for a day to come, to
press forward and be active and earnest in the
noble enterprise. The women of Utah should
consider it a privilege to have the opportunity
of assisting in a great public benevolence of
this character. Woman's sympathies are all
enlisted in the cries of the needy, woman's
heart goes out in sweet charity to the little
children, whose woe-begone faces tell the story
of want, then let women who have been blest
above all women on the face of the earth, with
light and intelligence from above, use their
faculties for good and wise purposes.
	The counsel given the sisters to undertake
this seemingly arduous work was given by one
who is now resting from his earthly labors,
they should prove their devotion to him, their
respect for his words by heeding the advice he
gave, and fill the storehouses in the different
sections of the country with the products of
the soil, such as will preserve man and beast
in times of famine.
	This year the Lord has given to His people
abundant harvests, they should not be unmind-
ful of His goodness and favor but prove their
gratitude by storing up a portion to bless and
comfort the poor in the day of need.
	The Presidents of Relief Societies in city
and country should take active measures in re-
gard to this matter and when the wheat is gar-
nered, get their reports ready to forward to the
Central Grain Committee that they may be
prepared to make a full and correct statement
of all the grain in the Territory, or in possess-
ion of the sisters of the Relief Societies at the
Annual Grain Meeting which will be held in
this city Saturday. Nov. 16th, 1878. We ex-
pect to hear that some white beans also have
been stored; it has often been remarked
through these columns that white beans would
keep longer and require less care than even
the wheat.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	QUARTERLY MEETING: The sisters should
remember that the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday Sept. 21. There will be two sessions,
commencing at 10 o'clock a. m., and 2 o'clock
p.m. Presidents and officers of the various
branches of Relief Society in Salt Lake Co.
and all interested in the work are solicited to
attend. Secretaries should send in their re-
ports previous to the time of holding the meet-
ing that the Secretary may review and proper-
ly arrange them. Reports may be sent to this
office, and this arrangement will be perhaps the
most practicable. As there is some necessary


[Column 1]
business to be transacted by the officers of Re-
lief Society it is hoped all that can will make
a point of being present to take part in its
transaction. If the Secretaries will refer to
the instructions given at the last R. S. Confer-
ence in this city and published in WOMAN'S
EXPONENT of July 1, it may help them in
making up reports. They cannot be too care-
ful and particular, but it should be done in or-
der.
	WE HAVE received with the Sept. 5 No. of
the "New North West" an interesting and
ably edited woman's paper, published in Port-
land, Oregon, by Mrs. A. J. Duniway, a sup-
plement to the Portland Bee containing the
speech of Senator Mitchell, delivered by invi-
tation of the leading citizens of Portland at
New Market Theatre in that city, on Saturday
evening Aug. 31.
	MRS. Dr. Ferguson begs to announce that on
Monday, September 16th, she will open a SE-
LECT MORNING CLASS for LADIES, for
instruction in the higher branches of a compre-
hensive English education. Recitations every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning,
from 9 to 12 30. The Evening Class in Elocu-
tion and Dramatic Reading, for Ladies and
Gentlemen, will meet on Wednesday and Sat-
urday. Classes in vocal and Instrumental
Music, French and Drawing, as last winter.
For terms apply to Dr. E. B. Ferguson, First
East Street.
	THE LADIES Relief Association for gather-
ing means for the Yellow Fever sufferers held
a meeting and formed Committees to visit the
different parts of the city and solicit donations
for that noble and benevolent purpose.
Among the active and efficient workers are
Mrs. Oliver Durant, Mrs. G. M. Anderson,
Mrs. Joseph Morrell, Miss Helen Golinski,
Mrs. A. J. Patterson and Miss Jote Spencer.
Altogether they have collected up to the pres-
ent time, Sept. 13, $925 which will be forward-
ed to the suffering South. The Hebrew ladies
have also raised some funds. There has been
one performance at the Theatre, Base Ball
Games played, lectures given and other enter-
tainments to accumulate means for this lauda-
ble purpose, and in this way quite a large sum
of money has been raised and the work still
goes on.
	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.
	THE ENTERTAINMENT given by the Azelea
Literary Association in the Social Hall on
Monday evening Sept. 9, for the benefit of the
Yellow Fever Sufferers was a financial success;
the proceeds, we are told, amounting to $130.
The first part of the programme consisted of
songs and select reading, recitations, most of

[Column 2]
them exceedingly well rendered for amateurs,
and an essay by Miss Josephine Spencer, on
the subject for which the entertainment had
been given, which did her great credit. The
comic play of "Toodles" constituted the last
part of the evening's entertainment and we
can but deprecate the selection of a play that
portrays the drunkard without any object of
moralizing but simply to be funny. It seems
to us that every person who desires to see a
better state of society and correct principles
promulgated among the young should discoun-
tenance the imitations of drunkenness upon
the stage, unless there is good to be effected
through the moral it presents.
	WE HAD a pleasant interview with Mrs
E. Hardacre who came here as a correspond-
ent in the interest of the "New York Herald."
We had been informed previously that Mrs.
H. was coming to write sensational letters
about Mormon Women, something in the
style of a former correspondent who paid Salt
Lake a visit of some weeks last year. Mrs. H.
is a lady of exceedingly pleasant manners, an
intelligent face and sympathetic eyes. She is
attractive in conversation, and is no doubt a
clever writer, as she seems to possess the nec-
essary requisites. Her stay in this city was
limited and she has gone on to California, but
will return here again after a short tour through
portions of that state, and spend a week or ten
days in this vicinity making notes of observa-
tion and writing for the N. Y. Herald from
here. Mrs. H. expects to make some sketches
of the ruins and curiosities of Southern Califor-
nia, and also write an article upon them for
Scribner's Monthly, to which she is already a
contributor. What opinions she may form
concerning Mormon Women, remains to be
known through her articles. She seemed anx-
ious to hear of the travels and hardships of the
early settlers here, and her eyes filled with
tears when she contemplated the sufferings en-
dured by these heroic women; and she remark-
ed "if trials, persecutions, hardships and cruci-
fixions will entitle people to salvation, then
your people have certainly earned it." She
marveled as many others have at the wonder-
ful work which had been done in settling the
Desert.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


UTAH COUNTY SILK MEETING.

	Meeting of the Utah Co. Branch Silk Asso-
ciation held at Elder Daniel Grave's Park Gar-
dens, Provo, Aug. 30th; meeting called to order
by Prest. Mary Hindley. Opened by singing
and prayer. Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. Elder Graves stated the
object of the meeting to consult about the best
method of obtaining means to carry on the
silk enterprise. Gave an account of an inter-
view he had with a brother with a view to
purchasing a reel and other machinery for the
working up of the silk. Recommended the
brethren to encourage the sisters by their faith
and means, that they may be enabled to carry
on the business effectually. It is necessary that
the Association have means to buy up the co-
coons, so that the sisters may not get discour-
aged but keep on trying to raise a little silk.
Motioned that each ward get up a petition to
their City Fathers and ask them to present it
to the County Court.
	Pres't. Hindley spoke of several items of in-
terest to the members of the Association, and
regretted the disadvantage of having no means
to buy up the cocoons.
	An amendment to the motion was made by
Mrs. J. Durrant, to the effect that a committee
of three be formed in each ward, one of the


R. S., and two of the Y. L. M. I. A. to raise
a fund by subscription to buy up the cocoons,
and purchase the necessary machinery etc.,
which was carried unanimously.
	Mrs. Crompton of American Fork reported
30 lbs. cocoons and 4 oz. of eggs raised there
this season.
	D. Graves stated that there had been 3000
mulberry trees planted out this season in Utah
County. Also reported 50 lbs. of cocoons rais-
ed in Provo this season, and exhibited speci-
mens of spun silk prepared for the loom. Mrs
Wooley of Pleasant Grove reported 17 lbs. co-
coons and 5 oz. eggs raised in that settlement.
	Mrs. Hardy of Payson reported 5 lbs. co-
coons and silk-worm eggs to the value of six
dollars, also one and a half lbs. of silk reeled
ready for the loom.
	Mrs. E. D. Clarke motioned that a report of
the Commitees' be sent to Pres't. Hindley be-
fore the end of Sep. Carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Oct. next.
				MRS. M. HINDLEY, Pres't.
				MRS. E. FEATHERSTONE, Sec'y.


OBITUARY.

	DIED AT East Mill Creek, Sept. 2nd, 1878, of
consumption, Lilian Edna, youngest daughter
of John and Ann E. Neff, aged one year, five
months and eleven days.

	"There is no flock however well attended,
	But one dead Lamb is there."

	To those who mourn let me say, that time
will accustom you to Lilian's absence, you will
never forget her, you need not shut her from
your thoughts, but you will find other duties
supplying the place of those you once owed to
her. I know it may seem cold and unnatural
but our Father has placed us here to find our
happiness in blessing those around us, and if
he takes any of the dear objects away, he sig-
nifies by the act that our duties to these are
finished. Oh we have a priceless faith! We
lay our loved ones in the arms of God and feel
in the depths of our soul that all is well with
them. We know that we shall soon meet them
again. never to part. Were Lilian absent from
her mother here upon earth, she would have
constant fears that some ill might betide her,
but now she knows that evil can never touch
her immortal one.—W. C. L.

	WE HAVE to record the demise of another
faithful Sister Christina N. Miller, who died of
heart disease at her residence Sept. 7th in this
city. Deceased was born in Franklin Co.
Pennsylvania March 18th, 1818; emigrated to
Utah in the hand cart company Aug. 1860, and
reached the city in good health and spirits;
she was devoted to her religion, and ever re-
joiced in its principles; and was true and faith-
ful to the same. President Angus M. Cannon
preached a most edifying and consoling dis-
course at her funeral, applicable and comfort-
ing to all that heard it. He spoke of visiting
her in her home in Pennsylvania, and of her
kindness and hospitality to the Elders when-
ever they visited her. With her they ever
found "a quiet and peaceful home" "that she
died in the Lord and her works will follow
her." There was a large assembly of friends
to pay their last respects, and a long line o
carriages filled with the same followed the
hearse to the cemetery. Pres. A. M. Cannon,
the Bishop, and other prominent men in au-
thority attended. Pres. Cannon made a few
appropriate and closing remarks.—"Let me die
the death of the righteous." Amen.
							H. T. K.


62		﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
				FERENCE.

			JUAB STAKE OF ZION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our first Quarterly Meeting of the Stake
organization of the Relief Society was
held April 21st, 1878, at the Nephi Meeting
House. Opened by singing and prayer.
Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough made a few re-
marks on the object of the meeting and
the Financial Report which was read, after
which Pres. George Teasdale said the ob-
ject of these Quarterly Meetings are to
keep track of the business of the Society,
that you may all understand what property
you own; also to amalgamate your feelings,
that you may be enabled to work together
harmoniously. He also gave much good
counsel, and encouraged the sisters to per-
severe in the culture of silk, and wished
them to practice what they preach and as
far as possible wear home production; said
we should feel proud of our dress when we
did this. He encouraged the sisters to be
faithful in the discharge of every duty.
	Owing to the weather being very stormy
our meeting was not very well attended.
Meeting adjourned to the 21st of July.
Benediction by Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough.
	Second Quarterly Meeting of the Relief
Society, held in the Nephi Meeting House,
July 21st, 1878. Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough,
President of Relief Society, presiding.
Counselors Mrs. Elizabeth Kendall and
Jane Pixton, Secretary Mrs. Mary Pitch-
forth, Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Amy
L. Bigler, Mrs. Aagard, President of Levan
Branch, Mrs. Stringham, of S. L. City,
Pres. Geo. Teasdale, Apostle Erastus Snow,
Patriarch Jacob G. Bigler, and several
others, both brethren and sisters, occupied
the stand.
	After singing, and prayer by Pres. Geo.
Teasdale, the Secretary read the minutes
of the last Conference, which were accepted,
and then the report of Nephi, Levan and
Mona Branches.
	President Goldsbrough then made a few
remarks, a portion of which are as follows:
	"I am pleased to meet with you at this
time. I am proud to represent the Relief
Society, and I feel determined, by the help
of my Father in Heaven, to discharge every
duty that devolves upon me. When I re-
ceived the Gospel, I made a covenant with
God that I would strive, with the help of
His Spirit, to keep His commandments. I
am here at this time because it is a duty,
and I earnestly request you, my sisters here
in Nephi, to come to meeting that you may
understand what we are doing. When the
Teachers go to visit, I want them to go as
comforters to the Saints, and not to beg; if
the people have anything to give they will
give it without asking for it. I pray God
to bless us all."
	Mrs. Susan Stringham then exhibited
a silk scarf and some skein-silk of home-
production.
	Pres. Mrs. Aagard, of Levan, then made
a few remarks, showing the willingness of
the sisters of that Branch to do all they
could to help roll an the great work in these
last days.
	Mrs. Hannah Jones was appointed to re-
ceive the fast day donations in the North
Ward, and Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews to
continue to receive them in the South
Ward.
	Pres. George Teasdale then said: "The
Relief Society have been in the habit of
receiving and disbursing our fast day do-
nations, and I want them to continue to do

[Column 2]
so; I want a strict account kept of all re-
ceived and disbursed. I consider it no
disgrace to receive when we need; it is a
great blessing that we can obtain what we
need by asking for it. I am proud of my
sisters, and I pray God to bless our Socie-
ties and all who sustain them."
	Apostle Erastus Snow said: "I am pleased
that Bro. Teasdale encourages the sisters to
look after the poor; the sisters are more
capable of doing this than the brethren.
Many of our sisters labor hard to sustain
themselves and their children, and would
suffer and not complain, but they need the
help of the mothers in Israel in these mat-
ters. There are others who have never
been taught to work; they need experienced
sisters to teach them. Teach the people
industries. It is right to accumulate
riches, but we must not set our minds on
this world's goods. I like to hear the sis-
ters speak in these meetings, also in Fast
Meetings. You can work in your sphere.
A good, faithful mother will teach her sons
to keep the commandments of God; a
mother has great influence in her house;
she can sustain the husband and encourage
him to be a better man. Your works are
appreciated in Zion; there is no place that
the labors of the faithful are more needed
than in Zion. May God help you to be
valiant in the cause; I ask God to bless you.
Amen.
	Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews then sang "My
own land Deseret.
	Dismissed by Elder Snow.
				AMY L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y.
	Quarterly Report of the Nephi Relief
Society, for the Quarter ending July 20th,
1878.
Property on hand as follows:
1 Lot, Relief House and Lot.................$1800 00
Wheat stored, 105 1/2 bu; @ 60cts....       63 30
Flour, quilts, and stockings.................       55 00
Donations for Sanpete Temple &c....        73 73
For Welsh Mission................................       19 15
Sunday Eggs..........................................       33 25
Cash and Store Orders........................       23 00
Sundries.................................................      29 98
								   ————
		Total					    2097 41

Contra.
Sundries disbursed to poor.................      50 96
Paid to Welsh Mission Fund................       19 15
Wheat in store......................................       63 30
Relief House, Lot, &c............................   1800 00
Paid to Temple, not reported last
	time.................................................      86 00
Cash, merchandise, flour, &c...............      78 00
								   ————
		Total					    2097 41

Number of members enrolled, 270; number
of acting members attending meeting, 68.

	Statement of the Levan Relief Society
for the quarter ending July 20th, 1878.

Shares in Levan Co-op Store............$ 100 00
Amt. in Treasury................................      69 50
Fifty bushels of wheat stored @ 60.      30 00
								————
		Total					   199 50

Disbursed to Manti Temple.............       27 50
To Poor...............................................         5 83
Missionary Fund................................         2 70
Sundries.............................................             70
Property in hand...............................     162 77
								————
		Total					   199 50

	Statement of the Mona Relief Society
for the quarter ending July 20th, 1878.

Shares in Store.................................. $    93 50

[Column 3]
Value of City Lot................................     100 00
Ten bu. of wheat @ 60.....................          6 00
Balance in Treasury.........................         30 75
								    ———
	Total,						$  230 25
Disbursed to Welsh Mission Fund.      $ 39 72
Emigration Fund...............................         40 04
To the Poor........................................           5 05
Manti Temple....................................         12 05
Property on hand..............................      133 39
								     ———
	Total,						     230 25


CORRESPONDENCE.

	SPRING CITY, Aug. 5th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June 22d Pres. E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young came here, accompanied by Mrs.
Goldsbrough, President of Nephi, and Mrs.
Irons, President of Moroni Relief Socie-
ties.
	On the 23d meeting was called; all at-
tended, old and young. It was truly a
time of refreshing, which was highly ap-
preciated by the whole community.
	On the Monday following, the Sunday
 School children had the privilege of a spe-
cial meeting, and were much delighted in
hearing the many interesting subjects ad-
vanced for their benefit. That evening
the Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. A. were called
together, also all others who could get into
the house; it was very crowded. They
talked to the young like mothers of the
most noble character, for that is what they
truly are, and their advice was accepted by
most of the young, and they say they wish
Sisters Snow and Young would come oftener;
they could listen to them at any time with
pleasure. The Spirit of God was plainly
felt by one and all.
	Our President, M. A. P. Hyde, is another
mother in Israel; she looks well to all the
needy, and is a great comforter to the sor-
rowful. We have some excellent teachers,
who are careful in looking after the sick
and needy, but to make sure that none are
neglected, Mrs. Hyde will take special time
to visit all around and go to every one
who is sick or in need, and learn their con-
dition from themselves, and what will com-
fort them; and as far as it is in her power
she will relieve them and supply their
wants. She ever carries with her a humble
and meek spirit, is blest with the best
counsel and advice to give to all; with her
good counsel and the blessings of God we
are wonderfully blest with love and union
in the whole of our Society.
	We wish the EXPONENT to ever continue
and prosper. We are pleased to see that
other Societies are progressing as fast as
they are, and do hope that we can be one
with them.
	P. E. BENSON, Sec'y.

	ST. CHARLES, IDAHO, July 31st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In the EXPONENT of July 1st there is an
interesting article entitled "Jacob's Pillow,
versus Pillar," in which the following error
appears—"Through James the First of
Scotland and Sixth of England it was
brought to England and placed where it
has remained ever since in Westminister
Abbey." In the first place, James the
First of Scotland never was king of Eng-
land by any of the James's, but was taken
there by Edward the First, A. D., 1296.


[Column 1]
	Buchanan, in his History of Scotland,
says: "He (Edward I) destroyed every
history, treaty and ancient monument,
whether left by the Romans or erected by
the Scots; and carried off all the books and
teachers of learning into England. He
also sent to London the rude stone with
which the fate of the kingdom was com-
monly believed to be connected; nor did he
leave any relic by which a generous mind
might be roused at the remembrance of
pristine greatness, or that might excite
and encourage true magnanimity of soul."
	The following details are given as matter
of interest to the curious reader.

		THE REGAL CHAIR.

	"The chair is that in which the sovereigns
of England have been crowned since the
time of Edward the Second. The princi-
pal antiquity, however, connected with it
is the 'fatal stone,' enclosed within the
frame-work, immediately under the royal
seat; much of fable is connected with this
relic of antiquity. This stone is of an ob-
long form, but irregular, measuring 26
inches in length, 17 3/4 in breadth, 10 1/2 in
thickness; it is a sandy, granular stone
seat of debris of sienite, chiefly quartz,
with light and reddish colored feldspar,
and also light and dark mica. History re-
lates that it is the stone whereon the pa-
triarch Jacob laid his head, in the plain of
Luz. It is also added that it was brought
to Brigantia, in the kingdom of Gallicia. in
Spain, in which place Gathol, King of the
Scots, sat on it as his throne. Thence it
was conveyed into Ireland by Simon Brech,
who was King of the Scots, about 700
years before Christ; from thence into Scot-
land by King Fergus, about 370 years after-
wards; and in the year A. D. 1850, it was
transferred from Dunstaffrage Castle to the
Abbey Scone in the Sheriffdom of Perth,
by King Kenneth, who caused it to be en-
closed in this wooden chair, and a prophet-
ic verse to be engraved, of which the fol-
lowing is a translation.

	'Should fate not fail, where'er this stone is found,
	The Scots shall monarchs of that realm be crowned.'

	This is the more remarkable from its
having been fulfilled in the person of King
James the Sixth of Scotland and the First
of England, who was grandfather of the
Princess Sophia, Electress Dowager of
Hanover, grandmother of King George the
Second, and from the same lineage comes
the amiable Queen Victoria. The chair
itself is of oak, and is still firm and sound.
There can be no doubt, from the character
of its construction, that it belongs to the
reign of Edward First, and that it was
made for the reception of the highly prized
relic which it now encloses.
		Respectfully,
							RURAL.

	PHILADELPHIA, PA., Aug. 8th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	Two late copies of the EXPONENT have
just come to hand, the first I have seen
since leaving home in April last. The ar-
ticles on storing grain which they contain
thrilled me as I read them, and I have felt
irresistibly impelled to write a few words
in encouragement of the work, and I am
persuaded that the language which I can
best use for this purpose will be that which
is descriptive of the present actual condi-
tion of thousands of families in this State.
	I have recently traveled through the
coal regions, and had occasion, in the course
of my genealogical labors, to make the ac-
quaintance of many individuals in differ-

[Column 2]
ent stations in life. The universal cry is
unprecedentedly hard times. Those who
have money are taking the best of care of
it, and confidence in new enterprises
scarcely exists. The coal mines are now
averaging, as nearly as I could learn, and I
made special inquiries, about one-third the
wages per diem. that they received before
the panic, and do not average working more
than half as many days in a month as they
did then. Thus there are thousands of
families in the coal regions of this State
who are now subsisting on about one-sixth
the income they had before the panic!
True, they made high wages then, but with
rare exceptions coal miners are a very im-
provident class, who never lay up for a 
rainy day, and the late tremendous reduc-
tions in wages has entailed great suffering
upon them. In many towns in Luzerne
County that I visited, I was informed that
hundreds of families were dependent
wholly, or in part, on charity for food, and
that often all they had to eat was bread or
potatoes. Probably the worst feature of
the matter is the discouraging outlook,
which, instead of promising better times
forebodes worse. Rumors of threatened
communistic uprisings have been rife ever
since I reached the State, and it is not im-
probable that the scenes of the Pittsburg
riots of last summer may be re-enacted at
any time in various portions of the State.
	In the States of Iowa and Illinois, though
there is less scarcity of food, business is
equally as dull, work as scarce and wages
as low as further east. In Central Illinois
coal has been selling at seventy-five cents
and one dollar per ton, loaded on the cars.
When coal is so low miners wages must be
at least proportionately so, and even those
who could find work at all, in many in-
stances, could not earn more than fifty cents
per day.
	The iron industry is suffering severely,
too. Workman in foundries and rolling
mills receive from eighty cents to a dollar
and a half per diem—very low wages for
that class of work—and all kinds of labor
is paid for at very low rates.
	Where will all this end? The states I
have named are only specimens of the
whole Union.
	Political parties are becoming, with great
rapidity, more intense and bitter in their
hatred of each other. Kearney, the Pacific
Coast agitator, is now in New England,
making inflammatory speeches to vast au-
diences of working men, which are re-
sponded to by thunderous applause, and
copied in all the leading newspapers of the
east. What will be the end of this politi-
cal discord?
	As a people, the Latterday Saints have
been thoroughly instructed, by the inspired
servants of God, as to what the end must
be. As a people we know that this Repub-
lic is doomed to suffer the wrath of an of-
fended God, and that among his judgments
will be famine, with its attendant horrors.
There are prophets in Israel who have
warned and forewarned us of these things.
But what will it benefit us to have prophets
in our midst, if we heed not their inspired
warnings?
	If the Saints in Zion could but appreciate
the true condition of this whole nation, as
one can who has traveled extensively
through it from west to east, I am sure they
would feel much more keenly than many
of them do the urgent necessity of making
immediate and strenuous efforts to prepare
for the terrible scenes that are near at hand,
the contemplation of which, when they are
pictured to the mind by the spirit of

[Column 3]
prophecy, is enough to appal the stoutest
heart.
	"Save the grain," is the motto that the
Latter-day Saints should adopt and act up-
on, for in the day of want all the faith we
ever had in the doctrine of new revelation,
modern prophets, etc., will not satisfy phy-
sical hunger, if our works have not been
according to our faith.
	Your brother in the Gospel,
					B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.

		ROME, GEORGIA, Aug., 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	*	*	*	There is nothing affords me
more pleasure than to know that it is a
privilege of mine to mingle my name with
the Saints of God, through the columns of
your most enterprising and well-influenced
paper.
	Our Conference came off on the 10th,
11th, and 12th. The Saints all attended
that could; it was well attended in general
by both Saints and Sectarians, and a good
spirit prevailed. We feel to thank God for
the privilege of living in this day and age
of the world, and for the privilege of hear-
ing the Gospel, also of receiving the same.
	You can't realize for even one moment
the great pleasure that it is to us to have
the honor of being numbered with the
people of God, and we are all looking for-
ward to the day when we can gather out
from wicked Babylon, and dwell with the
Saints in Zion, where we can render assist-
ance to those who are striving to build up
the kingdom of God upon the earth; we
can readily realize the great work that you
are all engaged in, and as soon as our Heav-
enly Father sees fit to open up the way for
us to gather with you in Zion, we will be
up and alive to our duty, with a readiness
of mind in helping to accomplish the great
work that is now being established for the
last time upon the earth, we feel that there
is a great work enjoined upon us to do, and
we will hail the day with unspeakable joy
when we can begin our part of it.
	We have had some very great delusions
to contend with during the absence of the
Elders last winter; we had one who had
turned from the truth to contend with,
who caused considerable strife and confu-
sion among the Saints, but we can now
look back and see the result; he came to
work against us, but to the contrary it was
for us and to his disappointment.
	The Saints here are all enjoying good
health and are getting along very well.
We have a Sabbath School in our Branch;
one Testament class, one Catechism class
and some smaller classes. I will write to
you again just as soon as I hear from the
different branches of the Church. I will
close by asking you to remember me in
your prayers. Your sister in the Gospel of
Christ,				JOAN MANNING.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NEWSPAPER REGULATIONS: 1. “Any per-
son who takes a paper regularly from the post-
office, whether directed to his name or anoth-
er’s, or whether he has subscribed or not. is re-
sponsible for the payment.
	2. If a person orders a paper discontinued, he
must pay all arrearages, or the publishers may
continue to send it until payment is made,
and collect the whole amount whether the pa-
per is taken from the office or not.


THE fireside where contentment and
peace prevail, where order reigns, where
love is the watchword, is indeed a haven
of rest, where the soul drinks in fresh
draughts of strength in its weary pilgrim-
age. —Emile.


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WE SEE by the "National Citizen and
Ballot Box," that the Sunday following
the Third Decade Convention at Rochester,
Rev. A. H. Strong, D. D., President of the
Rochester Theological Seminary, preached
upon "Woman's Place and Work." He
took for his text Genesis ii, 18: "And the
Lord said, it is not good for man to be
alone; I will make him an helpmeet for
him." The editor, in taking up the cud-
gel, quotes the earliest account of the crea-
tion contained in Genesis, i, 27: "So God
created man in His own image, in the im-
age of God created He him; male and
female created he them." After some very
pertinent allusions to the creation, the
writer comments upon Mr. Strong's sermon
on other testimony than Scriptural, and
where he speaks of Cornelia's "jewels" the
writer reminds him that he forgot to say
that Cornelia delivered public lectures upon
philosophy in Rome, and that Cicero paid
the very highest tribute to her learning
and genius. He deems it "too hazardous"
to allow women to vote. "Bad women
would vote." The writer says, "Well,
what of it? Have they not equal rights
with bad men to self-government? Bad is
a relative term." This and much more is
said in defense of the arguments used by
Mr. Strong, whose strong arguments she
has most strongly contradicted.


[Column 1]
MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE,
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, P[-]ushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladie's Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

[Column 2]
SUSANNA DECK,
Graduated Midwife and Nurse,
FROM THE COLLEGE OF ZURICH IN SWITZERLAND

	RESIDENCE—Twelfth Ward, three doors east of H. B.
Clawson's, on South Temple Street.

SARA'S SALVE!
PURE and harmless, inwardly or outwardly applied,
will prove a great blessing to the afflicted. Spread
it as thin as possible on linen when applied outwardly.
Cover the forehead and back of the neck over night with
the plaster for neuralgia, around the ears for earache or
roaring sounds, the cheek for toothache  Cover the nip-
ples when sore, or the breast when painful, the back and
chest when aching, the stomach when cramped.  When
suffering from inward complaints, roll some of it into
pills and take from one to five, according to the degree of
pain or condition of the patient. As clyster, nothing will
equal it. For burns and frozen hands and feet, it is bet-
ter than any other remedy. It is excellent for chapped
hands. It will cure felons in two or three dav[-]. It takes
off dead flesh in a few hours. It will cure old sores that
have baffled the most skillful doctors for scor[-] [-]f years.
Lame limbs of years standing it will cure in a week or
two. All kinds of aches or pains or open sores on man or
beast it will cure. Those that have tried it will not be
without it.
JULIA S. WINHOLM.
For sale at the Commission House, Salt Lake City.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Residence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between Sounth
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.  Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES OF THE EYE AND EAR.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address. David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches, includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in watercolors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to	C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY AND STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCT. 1, 1878.		No. 9.


[For the EXPONENT.
				HAPPINESS.

	What happiness supreme we humble mortals gain,
What power to redeem, by faith and works obtain,
If faithfully we seek the straight and narrow way,
And God's commandments keep, and never go astray.

Yes, surely as our day, our God will grace supply;
His promise is our stay, when clouds obscure the sky;
Our faith deliverance brings in sorrow's darkest hour;
Omnipotent to save, we know Jehovah's power.

No longer doubt and gloom our souls need fear oppress,
For truth and beauty bloom, increasing happiness;
With joy our lives abound, tranquility and peace.
May we be faithful found, till sin and sorrow cease.

God's chosen ones declare "this is the eleventh hour"—
Our King will soon appear, majestic in his power:
The Spirit whispers oft how glorious it will be,
Its music, sweet and soft, says Zion shall be free.
	Salt Lake City.				ELLEN H. WALLACE.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
			WOMAN.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

	This being seems to be the theme, the
problem of the 19th century. The queries
concerning her are—What are her rights?
What her position? What are her capabili-
ties? Is she equally accountable with man
in her sphere? What was she sent on earth
for? The Lord said, "It is not good for
man to be alone, I will make him a help-
meet for him." She came from His hands
a perfect woman—and I would observe here,
in the penalties they afterwards incurred,
their punishments were entirely distinct;
labor was laid upon the man, on the woman
a far severer trial—"In sorrow shalt thou
bring forth children, and thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee!" shewing plainly that this was not
the original position in either case. In
meditating on the life of woman, we must
be certain that God has been with her
from that day and hour; for, without the
power of His Spirit, she must often utterly
have failed; instead of which, her "cove-
nant of suffering" has been borne with dig-
nity, with patience, with meekness, with
passive endurance, kissing the rod, bowing
beneath the hand, worshipping the Judge!
The exceptions to this character are so few,
comparatively, that they simply establish
the rule. When my mind runs back into
the irrevocable past, as in open vision, and
I realize the incalculable amount of suffer-
ing, mental and coporeal, more especially
the latter, she has ever passed through, she
rises before me a being like our Savior,
bearing her cross, and crowned with thorns!
	But I pass—she has indeed been in
school, and generally exhibits the rigid
training through which she has come up—
yet "through much tribulation." But God
has said in these last days: "Arise, daugh-
ter of Zion, put on thy singing robes;
God is thy Father and thy husband! and
He will make thy righteousness clear as
the noon day. His Spirit shall go with
thee to the end of time! Lean on Him, and
He will direct thy steps, and be thy friend
and counselor." Is woman aware that it is
God who has enfranchised her? Does she
realize that He has mapped out her destiny,
past, present, and to come! The Spirit of

[Column 2]
God is moving upon the waters, the Angel
of Truth has descended "with healing in
his wings," and the torch of ireedom liv-
ing in his hand; and liberty shall reign
upon the earth. Half the world has ever
been woman! shall she be forgotten?  Ver-
ily no! Verily no!! Man recoils from grant-
ing freedom to woman, fearing his premier-
ship may be endangered; but surely he
must know enough of the character of wo-
man to have seen that the best educated
are those who never intrude on the boun-
dary of another, be it man or woman.
When I speak of education, I mean those
who are schooled in home tuition, which is
always the most powerful and enduring.
	As I write on this subject, a character
rises up in my mind, which may illustrate,
and certainly will embellish my remarks—
one who has lived in our day, but who has
been gathered to his fathers prematurely;
one descended from and trained in a proud,
dogmatical, punctilious old country. Prince
Albert! a name revered by the English na-
tion to-day, and will illumine her history!
Did he feel that he tarnished the glory of
his manhood when, in accordance with the
laws and customs of England, and all her
nobles who hold offices under the crown, he
had to bow the knee and take the oath of
allegiance to the Queen of England, as her
loyal subject, and, rising, stood ever after
side by side with that regnant lady, as her
liege lord, husband and friend, beloved and
appreciated by her, to almost a species of
idolatry, to the last hour of his life; one
whom she mourned so devotedly and so
long, that she caused almost a jealous anger
in her people, who, after leaving her in
silent seclusion for two whole years, felt
then she ought to remember she was their
Queen-Mother, and again resume the im-
perative duties of her high and exalted
station. All this spoke loudly that he lost
no prestige, no respect, no dignity, by the
act of allegiance, and that other she was
constantly called upon to perform, but will
ever stand as an exemplar of a noble
prince, a devoted and wise subject, a faith-
ful husband and a tender and and most watch-
ful Father. Had he been living on the
earth to-day, I feel that his voice would be
heard, favoring the enfranchisement of
woman, and emancipation from many of
her disabilities. Victor Hugo has raised
his voice in public in favor of this effort,
also Gladstone, and Beaconsfield, and many
other far-seeing minds. God works by in-
struments, and such are these I have named.

	It is good to have friends, good to feel
they hold us in their hearts, give us their
sympathy, and throw their influence into
the scale in our favor, but the lever-power
must spring from ourselves—we must be
ready and willing in the day of our power!
Hence, my sisters, let us walk wisely, cau-
tiously, but yet unsleepingly in this mo-
mentous era of woman. Let us endeavor
to prepare ourselves (especially the young
sisters) for whatever may be ahead of us,
that if a wider field of usefulness be opened
for us, we may be enabled to maintain an
equilibrium, a cool, calm dignity, that shall
disarm sarcasm and ridicule. Increased
freedom induces increased responsibilities,
and in all the affairs of life, humiiity is th

[Column 3]
only safe road. To have the power to do
good is a blessed boon, and blessed are
those who, having the power, have the
will also.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESSES ON many subjects have been
held in Paris this summer, but none so im-
portant for the readers of this Journal, or
for the social needs of our generation, as
that on woman's rights, which met on the
25th of July in the Salle du Grand-Orient
de France, 16, Rue Cadet. The different
sections have, we understand, been at work
throughout the past month. Detailed re-
ports both of the inaugural meeting and of
the subsequent transactions will not be pub-
lished until the close of the proceedings,
but the accounts which have reached us
show that the meeting on the 25 of July
was one of unusual interest. Mdlle. Maria
Deraismes, whose name is familiar to the
readers of the "Avenir des Femmes," made
a preliminary speech on the special pur-
poses for which they had met; after which
Monsieur Antide Martin, a member of the
Municipal Counsel of Paris, and Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe were elected presidents. The
regular proceedings then began by an ad-
dress from Mdlle. Maria Mozzoni, of Milan,
who attended as delegate from the Demo-
cratic Association of Milan, and was, more-
over, charged by her Government with the
official mission of preparing a report of the
proceedings. This double mission height-
ened the interest with which her paper was
listened to; it dealt with the inequalities
of the French Code, and was received with
continual hearty applause.
	Very cordial, too, was the reception given
to a paper, on the broader moral aspects of
equal right and justice, from Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe. Miss Graham Jones, of Chi-
cago, representing the National American
Women's Suffrage Association, was also
warmly received.
	The meeting was marked by one melan-
choly feature: the announcement made by
Monsieur Richer of the death of the Count-
ess Malliani de Trave[-]sari, who died sud-
denly at Bergamo as she was on the point
of starting for this congress, in which she
had taken a most earnest and active inter-
est. A telegram of condolence was de-
spatched to the Count Malliani, as a mark
of the sympathy felt by all present at this
loss to the cause of the advancement of
women.
	The Congress has, we understand, at-
tracted considerable attention from the
French press; the Bonapartist section of
which treat it mainly with ridicule, while
the Republican section, for the most part,
show their sympathy with its object.—Wo-
men's Suffrage Journal.


MRS. JULIA Ward Howe is going to
Egypt. Mrs. Howe was one of the presi-
dents of the Woman's Congress in Paris.
She lectured in Florence, Italy, before the
Philological Association and received great
applause, as well as the highest encomiums
of praise from the press.


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 14, was well attended.
Coun. E. R. Snow presided. After the ex-
ercises of singing, prayer and reading of 
minutes from Junior Associations, Coun. E.
R. Snow made the following remarks: "I
am well pleased with the minutes we have
just heard; we have listened to good prin-
ciples; and these meetings are a power, and
it is growing. If you could have heard
Elder Lorenzo Snow preach in Ogden, it
would have gladdened you. He spoke of 
the effort of the sisters, and appreciated
our works, and prophesied of our future.
The sisters feel weak now, but the time
will come when they will speak with the 
eloquence of angels. I attended the Quar-
terly Conference of Box Elder Stake Relief
Society. Every branch of that organization
in the county was reported. The various
Presidents reported verbally in the after-
noon.
	"In these meetings our young ladies'
minutes form a very interesting portion. I
have just been thinking what a vacancy it
would make if they were left out. The
minutes of the Children's Association, read
by Mrs. B. W. Smith's grand-daughter,
were as interesting as though spoken by an
Elder. They foreshadow the future abili-
ties and positions of these children.
	"While in Brigham City, we selected the
President and Counselors over the Primary
organizations for each ward, and the Elders
set them apart. The next day about two
hundred and fifty children attended a spe-
cial meeting. I told them it was their 
meeting, to worship God. They sang
standing and prayed kneeling. They paid
good attention to all they could understand.
They expressed themselves glad to have
an organization of their own, so they would 
not be afraid to speak. We consulted with
the brethren, they were favorable and gave
us all necessary aid. Committees visited
each house, to ascertain the number of 
children between five and ten years of age.
—we thought that the best period to begin
work with. As the work progresses, we
shall have older children included. Mrs.
Harriet Snow, President of Box Elder Stake
Relief Society, and I went to Willard City,
and with the brethren organized the Pri-
mary Associations. We took a vote tose-
cure the aid of the mothers. In their at-
tire it does not matter how plain or ordi-
nary it is, cleanliness is the main point. I
would like to know how many in this con-
gregation are willing to unite with us and 
sustain the Primary Associations here. (On
motion the entire assembly rose to their 
feet.) Thank you, sisters, we will have it.
We want to take the hearts of the young
while they can be impressed. Many of our
young ladies have not been trained so that
they were anxious to unite with the Young
Ladies' Associations. We want it different
after this; we want them to grow up in
such faith that they need not rely upon
doctors. Many of our mothers have not
time, above the things of the world, to
train the immortal soul. We want to train
such mothers. It is hard to dispel the
spirit of the world. I have conversed with 
two Bishops, who favored these move-
ments."
	Mrs. Louie Felt was called to the stand,
and was nominated to preside over the Pri-
mary Association of the 11th Ward, Mrs.
Lizzie Felt and Louie Morris as Counselors.
These sisters were unanimously sustained.
	Miss Snow resumed her remarks, and re-

[Column 2]
ferred specially to the coming Territorial
Fair.
	Mrs. Watmough, Mrs. Julia Howe, Mrs.
E. Thomas, Mrs. M. Wilcox, Mrs. E. Steven-
son, Mrs. M. R. Thompson and other sisters
occupied the afternoon in speaking on the
duties of mothers, the training of children,
the principles of the Everlasting Gospel,
the blessings received from day to day, the
gifts and manifestations of the goodness of
God to His children who obey His com-
mandments.

		EAST PORTERVILLE, Sept. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were favored with a visit from Sisters
E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and E. Davis,
Aug. 19. We met in our schoolhouse,
which was filled to overflowing with men
and women. The President of the Relief 
Society, Mrs. Angeline Porter, presiding.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After a few introductory remarks by our 
President, Mrs. Horne addressed the audi-
ence; said she was pleased to meet with us;
said we were all in the same school, and
should be apt scholars. Said the first time
that she ever spoke in public President
Young, some of the Twelve Apostles and
several Bishops were present; thought her
feelings could be better imagined than de-
cribed. She hoped every woman in this
settlement belonged to the Relief Society;
also hoped the brethren were willing their
wives should belong. Thought the mothers
should attend to family prayers in the ab-
sence of their husbands. Instructed the 
mothers in regard to rearing their children
and having the proper watch-care over
them; parents were responsible in a great
measure for the acts of their children; spoke
of her own experience, and encouraged
home-manufacture.
	Miss E. Snow said, when we first came
to these valleys we had not the chance for
education that we have now; the first thing
to be thought of then was the bread and
butter, and after we had got that, the next
thing was a schoolhouse wherein to educate
our children. In early days of the church,
the children were taught to believe the 
Gospel fully; they then had faith; said now
some young men were called to go on mis-
sions before they had opened their mouths
in prayer at home; true, they were honest
in their hearts. And when they first spoke
in public it was very brief, because their
minds were not trained as they ought to be.
Spoke to the girls concerning the fashions
of Babylon that are introduced in our midst,
and have been drank into by our young
girls. Said instead of meeting together to
praise their God, their minds were lured
away with fashion. Said she, with other
sisters, was appointed to organize the 
young ladies of Zion, that there might be a
mutual improvement among the young;
that there had already been a great change,
and this was only a beginning. She en-
couraged education, but the most important
thing to obtain for our young people was
spiritual knowledge. Asked the mothers
if they wanted to have their children grow
up in honesty; if they did to beware them-
selves, and practice the principles of hon-
esty and truth. Encouraged the young in
their associations, showing the path they
should walk if they took the right course.
Asked the sisters if they realized the sa-
credness of these societies; said we had
our own souls to save, and have we time to
look at each other's failings? No, we have
not. Man never knew, ear never heard of 
the blessings the Lord has in store for those

[Column 3]
that love Him. Spoke to quite a length on
home affairs, touching upon a good many
different subjects, including home manu-
facture. Requested all those who had on
homemade hats or bonnets to stand up;
said she felt proud to see so many.
	Mrs. Davis said: "Sister Eliza has been
instructing us on home manufacture, and 
she wished us to sustain the EXPONENT, as
it is all made at home." Spoke about the 
right we had to vote; as we had the privi-
lege of the ballot given us, we should be
dutiful in this particular as voters.
	Bishop Porter said he fully endorsed every
word, and hoped we would carry out the
remarks of the sisters.
	President Angeline Porter felt to tender
a vote of thanks to those who had so nobly
entertained us this evening; said if we 
wanted to be benefitted we must put in
practice their counsel in our lives.
	Singing. Benediction by our Patriarch,
Alma Porter.
	MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
	MISS. AMY A. PORTER, Sec'y.

		MINK CREEK, Aug. 14th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters were together in the meeting
house on the 17th of April, 1878. Bishop
Rasmussen and Counselors were present,
and instructed the sisters in regard to the 
organization of the Relief Society. The
Bishop gave the sisters the privilege of 
choosing their president, and Christene
Keller was chosen. Emma Rasmussen was
selected First Counselor, and Christene
Peterson Second Counselor; Catherine Kel-
ler, Secretary, and Christene Neilson, Trea-
surer; we have sixteen members enrolled,
we meet twice a month, and a good spirit
generally prevails. We have made a quilt
and donated it to the Temple in Logan.
We are not very rich, but we wish to help
build up the kingdom of God. The EXPO-
NENT is always welcome to us, and we wish
to continue it.
	We remain your sisters,

		CHRISTENE KALLER, Pres't.
		CATHERINE KELLER; Sec'y.

	HILLSDALE, IRON CO., Aug. 13, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have an organization here with about
seventeen members. We are a small ward
and somewhat scattered, on account of some
living on their farms and ranches, but we
hold monthly meetings for instruction, &c.,
and some working meetings, and we are
trying to do what we can to forward the
great cause. We have very good meetings;
our Bishop and others of the brethren meet
with us from time to time and give us
much good instruction. We were organ-
ized just about one year ago now, and we
can see where we have made some im-
provement, and hope to be able to make
more during the next year. The EXPO-
NENT is a source of great comfort and in-
struction to us, and if every sister prized
it as I do there would be many more copies
taken by the people than there are at the
present time. We feel very much inter-
ested in the storing of grain, believing the
time will come when we will need it, as we
have so often been told by Pres. Young and 
others. May God bless the interests of 
Zion and all the faithful.

	As ever your Sister,
			LYDIA A. JOHNSON,
					President R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR MISSION.

BY CLARA B. HEATH.
Lost! in the city lanes and streets,
A hundred girls with their faces white!
Once they were fair, and pure, and sweet,
Guileless and true, and they loved the light;
Now in the fog of unbelief,
Stained with many a crimson stain,
Careless, defiant, grown blind and deaf,-
Pitiless, too, in their self-disdain--
Surely they need a warning word,
Friendly smiles and a helping hand;
Shall they look in vain to the Christian church,
That blessed light of a Christian land?

Lost! by the Ganges, years ago,
A hundred girls with their faces dark!
They never knew of a Savior's love,
They never knew of a sheltering ark.
Cradled in infamy, dark and deep,
Minds uncultured, and hearts unfed,
Passion awake, and conscience asleep,
What did it matter, living or dead?
Hundreds more tread the self-same track,
Leading down to the gates of death.
What can we do? O sisters fair,
Pray! It is never a waste of breath.

Lost! for the want of a little faith,
Many a flower in quaint disguise;
Dying a painful, lingering death,
Slowly, like hope from a maiden's eyes.
Lost, for the want of a little care,
Many a bud of hope and trust,
Some that would have been wondrous fair,
Wither and crumble away in dust.
Lost in Christian and heathen lands,
Many a noble, generous aim,
All for the want of a helping hand,
Looking for succor that never came.

Mothers, and sisters! the harvest white,
Lies about us on every side,
Waiting the reapers; and earnest cry,
Comes from over the ocean wide,
"Come and help us, we need your aid;
Come where the sun is warm and high;
Strengthen the hands that weary grow,
Fill the places of those that die;
Give us your prayers; our need is great!
Give of your goods; the Lord will provide.
Patiently, bravely we toil and wait;
Send us workers; the door is wide,"

Surely a blessing your efforts will crown,
Never will perish one grain of good;
No one need fear the Master's frown,
If she has simply done what she could.
Who of us all cannot strengthen the band
Tolling afar that the dead may live?
Who can measure with puny hand
The interest which the Lord will give?
And one has talent, and one has gold,
And "all have something," the record saith.
Give of your best to the Savior's cause,
Pray! it is never a waste of breath.
						-Ex.


R. S. REPORTS.

UNION, LITTLE COTTONWOOD,
				Aug. 24th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were organized into a Relief Society
Aug. 9th, 1877, by Bishop Ishmael Phillips
and Counselor Marion H. Brady, other
brethren being present. After the opening
exercises, singing and prayer, the follow-
ing officers were unanimously sustained:

	Elizabeth Richards, President,
	Lucy Brady,		} Counselors,
	Ann Griffiths,	}
	Mary Ann Smart, Secretary,
	Sarah Ann Griffiths, Assistant Secretary,
	Sarah Morrel, Treasurer.
	Since then our Treasurer has moved
south, and her office is filled by her sister,
Mrs. Lucy Brady, Acting Treasurer, with a
corps of teachers and the names of thirty-
two members enrolled. We hold our meet-
ings semi-monthly. Our Annual Report is
as follows:


Donations received..................$171.94
Disbursed, to Temple............... 37 80
To the Poor............................... 45 48
For Sacramental Service.......... 4 90
For Stake Book, &c.................. 2 75
3000 Shingles........................... 9 75
Cedar Blocks............................. 3 50
Calico......... .............................. 2 00
For sundry purposes................. 11 86
Remaining in Treasury, Cash,.... 34 15
Flour and Sundries.................... 9 75
The 24th of July was celebrated here by
the brethren turning out in a lively and
interesting manner, to harvest the seven
acres of wheat belonging to the Society,
the land being lent  us by Br. Brady.  While
the brethren were harvesting, the sisters
were none the less busy preparing a sump-
tuous dinner, which all were invited to
partake of freely.  After which the Sun-
day School children marched through the
settlement, headed by the string band,
banners, &c. Songs, recitations, speeches
and dancing cloes our memorable day, all
feeling well, and grateful for the blessings
and bounties that an all-wise God had
blessed us with.
We expect to build a granary this fall.
May the Lord bless all that labor with so
much zeal for the cause of truth and dis-
eminating the principles of our most holy
religion.  Your sisters,
	ELIZABETH RICHARDS, President,
	MARY ANN SMART, Secretary.


PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CONVEN-
TION.
HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
CENTRAL COMMITTEE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Sept. 10, 1878.
A people's territorial convention, com-
posed of delegates from the several coun-
ties, will convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, Oct. 7th, at 6 p. m.,
to nominate a delegate to the Forty-sixth
Congress.
The number of delegates to the conven-
tion has been apportioned as follows (being
based, as nearly as possible, upon the num-
ber of representatives to the Legislative
Assembly):
COUNTY                 NO.          COUNTY                   NO.
Salt Lake.....................18            Sanpete......................   5
Utah............................. 8             Wasatch....................    2
Juab............................. 3              Summit....................    2
Millard........................ 3              Morgan....................    2
Beaver......................... 3              Davis.......................    4
Piute............................ 1              Box Elder................    3
Iron.............................. 3             Tooele......................    2
Kane............................ 2             Weber.......................   5
Washington................. 2              Cache.......................   7
Sevier.......................... 2              Rich.........................    1
Total...........................................................................78
The leading men in each county are par-
ticularly requested to adopt such measures
as will secure a proper representation at the
coming convention; also to take the steps
necessary before the election as will give to
the candidate chosen by the convention as
delegate, the fullest support of the regis-
tered voters of the people's ticket.
By order of the committee,
JOHN SHARP, Chairman,
THEO. MCKEAN, Sec'y.


MISS FRANCES E. Willard intends pass-
ing the coming winter in temperance work
in the State of Illi[-]ois.


[For the EXPONENT.
	MEMORY AND OBSERVATION.

	As I sit and think, my memory takes me
back to my childhood days, and I think
with pain what a wilful, quick-tempered,
naughty girl I was. I think how much
trouble it caused my darling mother, and I
think, too, of her gentleness and patience
with me, how, instead of beating me, as I
have seen some mothers do their children,
she would talk to me in kindness; with
tears in her eyes, and no matter how hard I
was to conquer, she would always win the
victory; and nothing else would have done
it.
	Memory also brings to my mind how,
with an infant babe only two weeks old,
she forsook father, mother, kindred and
friends, home and all things dear, but her
own immediate family and the love of
truth, and endured, with heroic courage,
the hardships and trials of the Saints, and
then crossing the plains laid down her life
striving to obey the Gospel. I was then
only seven years old, but my dearest recol-
lections are of her, and her gentleness and
sweetness; and of dear father, too, for I
never remember hearing them disagree.
	To them, with the help of my Heavenly
Father, I owe all I am, and I can say, in
humbleness and thankfulness, I have tried
to cultivate an even, cheerful disposition,
and the trial has not been an entire failure.
	Dear mothers, my observation teaches
me that it is much better to rule with love,
kindness and firmness. When I see a
mother deliberately double a rope and whip
her daughter until her flesh is bruised for
weeks, I cannot help thinking, poor, igno-
rant soul, it must surely be for lack of wis-
dom that you act thus, for I know you de-
sire to do the child good. O how infinitely
much depends upon the character of our
children, and this upon the training they
receive from us. Mothers in Israel, actual
and prospective, the duties now incumbent
upon you might well make angels falter,
nor can you become mothers without incur-
ring those respousibilities, but if you are
wise, and properly train your children, how
great, how glorious are your privileges. O
mothers, I fear and tremble when I think
how imminent is our danger, and when I
see so many of our youth growing up in
ignorance and lawless rowdyism. My
greatest hope is in the mothers—may God
open our eyes and stir up our souls to our
momentous duties, and help us to properly
train our children, and may He enable us
to be what we ought, for as we are, so will
our children be.
	And let us exhort our girls to be wise in
choosing their husbands. Do not choose
for the father of your children men who
will get drunk, and spend all their earnings
for strong drink—men who will come into
your presence using obscene and profane
language and abuse you in every way. But
choose, rather, men of refinement and cul-
ture, and men of God. You have as much
right to demand virtue, honesty and sobri-
ety from them, as they from you. And if
they are not such men, can you expect your
sons to be? if you choose for their fath-
ers men of vice and degradation, can you
expect them to be wise and virtuous, de-
spising all that is low and vulgar, and
searching and grasping for all that is good
and pure? No, indeed. Then, I repeat,
be wise, and raise up children that will
honor and obey the priesthood, and be as
priceless gems in the kingdom of God.
But I fear I am trespassing. May God help
us to be all we desire in righteousness.
					GIPSEY GOLDEN.


68		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, 1878.


WOMEN AS EDUCATORS.

	A great deal is said of the duties of mothers,
and in many instances much blame is attached
to them for the immorality, lack of honesty
and uprightness, and want of high moral tone
in society at the present time.  It is said that
mothers neglect their children for dress, to
follow fashion and outrival their associates,
that another class desire to take the place of
men, and are unfitting themselves for domestic
life and home education; and altogether that
"the times are out of joint," and as in the days
of Adam down to the present time it is wo-
man's fault.
	"What we want is better mothers," is heard
on every hand; "those who are contented in
their sphere, and not assuming more rights and
privileges than belong to them."  Are you so
sure they have got all their rights?  "Certainly;
haven't they got men to protect them, to work
for them, to nourish and cherish them?"  This
answer implies a great deal and covers a wide
area; but what are the facts?  Every one ac-
quainted with the existing state of society in
the world knows how far this is carried out in
the lives of men and women.  That there are
promises of this nature, solemn covenants too,
all are aware, but how frequently are they pro-
faned and broken until confidence is lost, and
the very structure upon which society is based
has become unreliable.  The relation of men
and women to each other is an ever underly-
ing principle of the great human problem,
which mankind are all engaged in solving.
	It has become quite a common practice with
people now a days to cry out against evils, from
the pulpit, the platform, and the press, to de-
nounce, to criticize and censure all without
offering any remedy that can be grasped by
the multitude - any potent healing balm for
the many grievances and errors that are con-
stantly being developed.
 When the imperative need of some
certain element is felt, the usual method is to
search for and apply it.  The world has become
aware that there is a deficiency in society now
that wants remedying, and they desire better
mothers.  The desire is good, and would no
doubt be of great benefit, but what are the con-
ditions of the sex at this time, what the facili-
ties conducive to a higher moral tone, and the
prospects for a change for the better. Do men
consider how much they themselves owe to
their mothers?  Do they know that she who
bore them went "down into the dark valley of
of the shadow of death" to endow man with life,
and in all tenderness she nursed, tended and
cherished her offspring through all the perils
incident to childhood, which imply all sorts of
self-denial, toil and patient endurance.  The
proudest man, in all his might, and strength,
and wisdom has the same peculiar history.
	Is it not indeed necessary that woman, upon
whom the bearing, rearing, and intellectually
developing the child rests, should be endowed
with all the advantages of education and con-
dition it is possible for her to enjoy?  Can wo-
man be too well qualified for the position of
mother? The highest and holiest relations of
life should certainly be worthy our strongest
efforts, and claim our best thoughts.
 It is customary to call woman a teacher, an
educator; - what the children imbibe in early
life strongly marks, or mars, their future;
mothers are expected to lay the very founda-
tion of virtues, on which the man, or woman,
bases the whole edifice of human character;
then ought not woman to be prepared, to be
qualified, to be surrounded with all the most
favorable conditions for such an education as
shall strengthen and endow her, physically,
mentally, morally and spiritually, for the high-
est phase of woman's life - Motherhood?
	But while woman strives to aid mankind,
may she not be privileged not only to dispense
good around her own private hearth-stone, but
to others extend a helping hand: reach out to
those who have not the same great courage,
the same understanding, whose conditions,
perchance, have not been so favorable to a
higher life, or who may have been misguided?
If even a little good can be done to others who
are hungering for it, or who stand in fearful
need, why should woman be debarred from
crossing her own threshold in her mission of
good works.  If there has been a great mistake
made, and society is to-day degenerated, why
should not woman, in connection with her
brother man, assist in regenerating?  Is it not
woman whose heart is agonized by the evils
with which the earth is filled?  Are not her
maternal instincts strong in regarding the suf-
fering of all humanity?  Does not her bosom
glow with a maternal love that is universal to
some extent, as well as individual!  Can man
redeem the world without woman's assistance?
He knows he cannot; he knows that in con-
nection with the strength and power of his
manhood, woman's gentler and kindlier ele-
ments are necessary to a high state of civiliza-
tion.  In countries where women are only sub-
ordinate and servile, what is the effect upon
society?  A constant tendency to barbarism.
Then, the more generally intelligent woman
is, the more influence she will be able to exert
through all possible avenues, towards improv-
ing social life; then so much deeper, and high-
er, and broader, and stronger will her system
of educating be.  If society is ever to be ele-
vated to a higher moral or spiritual condition,
then the power of woman must be sensibly
felt in its renovation.  That the world wants
better mothers there is no doubt, women who
regard sacredly the condition of motherhood,
women who make more thorough preparation
for duties than they do to dance, or sing, or at-
tract admiration, women who will choose their
husbands, for their sterling integrity, honesty
and uprightness.  The large majority of women
are not so trained and educated.  Our heart
goes out warmly to those women who have
much poverty and prejudice to overcome; they
need sympathy and teaching, and who can be
their educators, who  so well adapted as woman
herself, who, knowing all the longings and
needs of woman, all the suffering and pain in-
cident to maternity, knows how to enter into
the subject with a special inspiration.  Men
have no reason to fear the help of woman in
the great battle-field of life, for if she becomes
more self-helpful, more capable of standing
alone, she will be all the better qualified to
assist man in the many heavy burdens that
devolve upon him.
	Let us not forget to thank all noble men who
generously protect and defend women; and
also all brave, true-hearted women, who incur
ridicule, and opprobrium and frowns, who,
though wounded at every step they take, still
press forward in the path of conviction, and
seek to educate woman up to a higher standard
of intelligence.  Woman's part in the great
programme of creation is not only an essential
but a lofty one, and she should so consider it.
"To bear the souls of men" and women.  What
greater honor need she aspire to, except to
educate them in the path of duty.  And the
very sorrow through which woman passes in
fulfilling this great law of her being, should
make her a thousand times dearer to man, for
there is a sacredness about motherhood that
stands alone in its sublimity; and there is a
glory attending it, of which the weakest and
most unsophisticated of mothers possess a
timid sort of consciousness. 
							E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE on hand for publication reports
from Millville, Wellsville, Clarkston, Hyrum,
Tooele, Deweyville, Honeyville, Wanship,
Peoa, Holden, Glenwood, Ephraim, Morgan,
Bloomington and Santaquin; also poems and
prose articles; but we are always glad to re
ceive contributions, that we may have a va-
riety to select from.

	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held on Saturday. Oct. 5th, in
the Tabernacle, commencing at 10 o'clock a.
m. At the last Quarterly Conference, many
of the sisters did not understand that they
were expected to attend, but thought it was
especially for the brethren; we trust it is not
so now, and that the sisters will show their
earnestness in the interests of Zion by coming
out "enmasse."

	THE SEMI-ANNUAL Conference will com-
mence on Sunday, Oct. 6th. The sisters will
surely need no urging to attend Conference, al-
though this is the season for housewives to be
drying fruit, preserving, pickling, etc., but do
not let these household cares hinder you from
attending meeting. Be so judicious in manag-
ing that you can go and hear the teachings of
the servants of God. Sickness or the care of
little children, should be the only real hin-
drances.

	WE WERE favored with a call from Elder Eli
H. Pierce, of Brigham City, who has recently
returned from a mission to the States. Although
only a young man, this was his second mission.
He left here Aug. 2d, 1877, and arrived at home
Sept. 14th, 1878. The first few months of his
mission were spent in Iowa and Nebraska; af-
terwards he went to Pennsylvania, in company
with Elder B. M. Young, where they labored
successfully. Elder Pierce baptized, during
his absence, 24 persons, re-baptized 1, blessed
9 children, held 75 meetings, and organized two
branches. In the former mission of Elder
Pierce he baptized quite a number, making al-
together 87 persons baptized, 21 re-baptized, 33
children blessed, 6 branches organized, and
over 200 public meetings. Elder Pierce re-
turned in good health and spirits.

	MISS MATTIE H. Paul, a young lady just
twenty-one years of age, who has been setting
type for the EXPONENT nearly five years,
started for Ann Arbor University Saturday,
Sept. 21st. Miss Paul has been qualifying her-
self for some time past in the study of medi-
cine and surgery, preparato[-]y to going East,
with the intention of perfecting herself in
these attainments. She has educated herself
by her own energy, industry and [-]conomy,
and earned money to defray her college ex-


penses; and her example of diligence and per-
severance is worthy of imitation. Miss Paul
is a young lady of exceptional ability, and de-
serves to succeed. We trust, though she has
gone out alone, she will win her way, and re-
turn thoroughly qualified to take an honorable
position as a lady physician. We were sorry
to part with her, as she was an efficient typo,
but she shall have our best wishes for the at-
tainment of a higher position.

	THERE WILL be a Territorial Fair held in
Salt Lake City under the auspices of the D.
A. and M. Society, in which the ladies are so-
licited to take part. The following ladies have
been appointed a committee to take charge of
the department of woman's work. Mrs. Pris-
cilla M. Staines, Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Abba Rumell,
Mrs. Ann Dewey. The ladies of the Relief
Societies are solicited to contribute silk and
other goods which are manufactured by them,
also all kinds of fancy articles, ornamental
needlework, hair-work, drawing, painting, or
any of these classes of work, as well as domes-
tic manufactures of all kinds. The ladies of
the Territory should take pains to aid in mak-
ing this Territorial Fair the best that has ever
been held, and will thus be conferring a public
good by contributing to encourage home pro-
ductions and home-talent. The Fair will com-
mence Oct. 2d, in the City Market.

	IN ACCORDANCE with a call made by the Peo-
ple's Central Committee for Salt Lake County,
a mass oonvention convened on Saturday, Sep-
tember 28th, at noon, in the Court House, for
the purpose of electing delegates to the Terri-
torial Convention. There was a fair represent-
ation of the people, though not nearly as many
as we expected to see. David O. Calder, Esq.,
rose and called the assembly to order, and the
business of organizing the meeting was effected
by electing Hon. John T. Caine, President; Bi-
shop John Henry Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice-Presidents; David McKenzie and
Hannah T. King, Secretaries. President Angus
M. Cannon offered the opening prayer. The
Chairman then read the call and declared the
meeting opened for business. The first busi-
ness transacted was the appointing of a com-
mittee to select delegates for the approval of
the convention. This committee consisted of
five gentlemen and two ladies, who withdrew
for consultation, having been instructed to
make the selection so as to equally represent all
parts of the county. A speech was called for
from C. W. Penrose, Esq., who responded
in a few concise remarks upon political
duties, the selecting of wise and judicious
men to office, the consistency of recognizing
women in politics, etc. Judge Snow was
called and made some remarks upon the rights
of citizens, duties of the people's delegate, the
total impropriety of Congress in seeking to con-
trol mind, conscience or religious principles.
The committee returned and reported the
names of the 18 delegates selected; and as we
have not room to publish the names, we will
state that the delegation consisted of 14 gentle-
men and four ladies. The secretary read the
names, and on motion they were sustained by
the vote of the convention. The chairman
then nominated nine alternates, among whom
only one lady's name appeared; these were
also sustained by vote. The president and
secretary were authorized to furnish the dele-
gates with credentials of election. C. W. Pen-
rose, Esq., then offered a "Preamble and Reso-
lution," which was read and adopted as the
sense of the convention. We regret we have
not space left to publish it, but express our
hearty recognition of its sentiments. A vote
of thanks was given to all the acting officers of
the convention, which adjourned sin[-] die.
Prayer by Prest. A. M. Cannon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
DIED, at Fillmore City, Sept. 8th, 1878, Re-
becca Jane, beloved wife of Thomas E. King,
and daughter of Robert and Rebecca Murrey,
aged 37 years and 22 days.  She leaves a hus-
band, five children (the youngest four weeks
old), an aged mother and numerous friends to
mourn her absence.
Deceased was born Aug. 17, 1841, at Wood-
stock, Ulster Co., N. Y. Became a member of
the Brooklyn Branch of the Church at the ago
of fifteen.  Emigrated herself and mother to
Utah in I860, making a permanent home in
this city, where she has won the esteem and
affection of all who knew her; and by her su-
perior talents as teacher and writer, though
unassuming, has memorized her name in the
hearts of many never to be forgotten; many of
her excellent articles have enriched the papers
of the Mutual Improvement Association.  Three
weeks previous to her death, not feeling well
as usual, she wished the Elders to administer
to her; after the administration we left her
resting comfortably.  On returning she seemed
quite overcome, and said a messenger of the
Lord had talked with her and showed her
many things concerning this Gospel.  Her
happiness was unspeakable, and the testimony
she bore was that Plural Marriage and the
United Order were true, and her desire was to
live to carry those principles out to the very
letter; exhorted those present, as they valued
the truth and their honor, never to speak
against them.  The following day she told us
she could not live; called the family together,
giving instructions to her children, and dis-
tributing presents to each; blessing her little
children, she affectionately bade us goodby.
The vision of her mind was then opened, and
she was permitted to see and realize the beauty
and grandeur existing, beyond the vale, and
when she became sensible of her surroundings
again she shed tears of regret, for the idea of
coming back to dwell here was loath ome to
her. But by faith and careful nursing we were
permitted to keep her with us three weeks
longer, when she departed this life, realizing
the approach of death, though unable to talk
with us.

May angels guide thee with truth and love
To that peaceful home in the realms above;
Where loved ones are waiting, with outstretched hand,
To welcome thy coming to that beautiful land.

May thy spirit, freed from mortality,
Seek knowledge throughout eternity,
Till thy crown be studded with purest gems,
Far brighter than earthly diadems.
						D. K. O.

DIED, in the First Ward, Sept. 13th, 1878, of
consumption, Sarah Rachel, daughter of the
late Henry Smith and of Martha Smith, aged
20 years and 6 months.
Deceased was born at Human’s Park, South
Africa, and came to Utah in the year 1865.  For
nearly seven years she has been a Sunday
School teacher, was a regular member of the
choir, and Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A, all
of which positions she faithfully filled, until
her illness prevented her from doing so, which
was a source of deep regret to her.  She was a
kind and loving daughter and sister, a true
and sincere friend, was beloved by all who
knew her, and mourned by a large circle of
relatives and friends; but while we deeply
mourn her absence, we feel that our loss is her
eternal gain.  Too pure for earth, she's gone to
Heaven.
One sweet flower has drooped and faded,
One dear form is laid at rest,
fair brow the grave has shaded,
But her soul is with the blest.
She has gone to heaven before us;
See, she turns and waves her hand,
Pointing to the glory o’er us,
In that holy, happier land.
Resolutions of Condolence, offered by the
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion to the bereaved family of Sarah Rachel
Smith.
Whereas, He who doeth all things for the
best hath bereft us of our dearly beloved sister,
friend, and faithful Secretary, and we are de-
sirous of expressing our sincere affection, sor-
row and sympathy for the sorrowing mother,
brothers, sisters, and relatives who are bereft of
her presence for a short season,
Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say, that in regret-
ting her loss, we mourn for one who was over
an example of purity and goodness, worthy of
our emulation, and who has endeared herself
to us by her many Christian virtues and en-
dearing qualities.
Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with
the family of the deceased in their bereave-
ment, and commend them to the care and
mercy of Him who seeth and knoweth all
things, and whose hand we feel to acknowledge
in this their affliction.
 Resolved, That we forward to the family of
the departed the heartfelt testimonial of our
sorrow and sympathy for the loss of her whom
we loved.
SARAH A. GRAHAM, Pres't.
AMY H. ADAMS, Sec'y.
ALICE FLETCHER, Treas.

DIED, in the First Ward, S. L. City, July 3d,
1878, of inflammation of the bowels, Miriam
C. Hawkins, wife of Creighton Hawkins, and
daughter of the late Sisson A. Chase and of
of Miriam G. Chase.
Deceased was born March 3rd, 1849, in Potta-
watamie Co., Iowa; came to Utah in 1853.  She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint, and a Coun-
selor in the Y. L. M. I. A. of the First Ward,
who deeply reget her loss, and who feel that
she was in every way worthy of their respect
and esteem.  She leaves a husband and four
children with whom we all feel to sympathize
for the loss of so good a wife and mother.
“Thine own will miss thee as they onward tread,
In the rough path where thy dear feet hath led;
Friendship will miss thee, but another tie
Is formed to guide until we meet on high."

 DIED, at Mona, Juab Co., Aug. 11th, 1878, of
typhoid disentery, Samuel, the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Ostler, aged 5 months and 5 days.
 This dear one, our first-born, was called early
to the arms of Jesus, who gathers flow-
ers from every garden.  Jesus says, “Suffer lit-
tle children to come unto me, for of such is the
kingdom of heaven.” Children are an herit-
age from the Lord."
					ANNIE D. DAVIS.

 In the 13th Ward of this city, Sept. 25th,
1878, Miss Charlotta Elise Landgren, of typhus
fever, after a most severe illness of three weeks
Deceased was born in Sweden, June 14th, 1859,
and at the early age of 16 years left her parental
home and early associations to gather with
the Saints, arriving in the valley July, 23d;
1875, in C. G. Larsen’s company; and while
here had been earnestly laboring to save
money to send home  help her family towards
emigrating.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON
			FERENCE.

	           SALT LAKE STAKE.

The Third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of this Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, Sept. 21st, morning session commenc-
ing at 10 o'clock. Coun. E. S. Taylor pre-
sided, the President, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
being unavoidably absent. In the stand
were some of the most prominent ladies of
of this city, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim.
Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
Mrs. E. Howard, and the Editor of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. On the platform around
the stand were the presidents of the vari-
ous branches of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Co. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the
minutes of the last Conference; then fol-
lowed the reports from the various branches
of the Stake, with very few exceptions.
	The 7th, 11th, and 21st Wards, Herriman,
South Cottonwood and West Jordan were
not reported. The reports were creditable,
showing the energy, enterprise and in-
creased interest on the part of the sisters,
in the duties and responsibilities resting
upon the women of Israel in this day. Af-
ter the reports had been read, Miss Snow
made a few remarks on woman's work and
the organizations for her special advance-
ment, and then the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches were called upon to give
verbal statements of the condition of the
Society in their respective localities. This
gave variety and interest, each speaker oc-
cupying only a few minutes. Meeting ad-
journed at 12 o'clock until 2 o'clock p. m.
	In the afternoon, Mrs. E. A. Whitney
was among the ladies in the stand. Mrs.
Whitney and Miss Snow are associated to-
gether in the minds of the Latter-day
Saints, from the early days of Kirtland,
and they are revered as pioneer women
who have ever been valiant in the cause of
truth, and their names will be held in hon-
orable remembrance for the many good
words and works which have brought joy
and comfort to the hearts of many thou-
sands of the Saints from time to time.
	Most of the afternoon was occupied by
the presidents in reporting verbally the
condition of the societies, after which Miss
Snow nominated Mrs. Mary P. Freeze as
Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. Mrs. Freeze nomination
was unanimously sustained. Miss Snow
then proceeded to nominate for Primary As-
ciations in the 16th, 17th, and 18th Wards,
with the following ladies as officers: 16th
Ward, President, Mrs. M. J. Thompson;
Counselors, Mrs. Drucilla Parker and Mrs.
Maria Singleton. 17th Ward, President,
Mrs. E. Groesbeck; Counselors, Mrs. C. L.
Williams and Mrs. Sarah Burbage. 18th
Ward, President, Mrs. Mary Schettler;
Counselors, Miss Anna M. Duncan and Mrs.
Ann Hart. These nominations were sus-
tained by the vote of the ladies of the Con-
ference. The business of the Conference
being completed, Miss Snow arose with
Mrs. Whitney, and making a few explana-
tory remarks, announced that if the sisters
would unite their faith, Mrs. Whitney
would sing "A song of Zion," which she
did in a most melodious voice and impres-
sive manner, every heart seemingly in-
spired with the inspirational hymn. Mrs.
Taylor then moved the adjournment until
the Wednesday nearest the 21st, which will
occur on the 18th af December. The con-
gregation then arose to their feet and sang

[Column 2]
"The Spirit of God," and Mrs. Whitney
dismissed the meeting.


[Column 1]
For the EXPONENT.
REPORT OF TRIP NORTH.

	By special invitation from our sisters of
Hyrum to attend their Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, Sister E. R. Snow and
I left home, August 6th, for that purpose.
We visited Mendon on our way, and at-
tended two meetings. Met with our faith-
ful sisters in Wellsville, and attended one
R. S. meeting, and two meetings of Y. M.
M. I. A.
	We reached Hyrum August 9, and spent
a pleasant time with our sisters in speaking
of the goodness of our Heavenly Father to
us His children. Sister Snow gave some
excellent counsel to the sisters, pertaining
to the order and government of Relief So-
cieties, which I hope they may profit by
and put in practice.
	We also visited Paradise, and were kindly
entertained by Bishop Smith and his estim-
able wife. Sister Snow organized the Y.
L. M. I. A., and we also attended a meet-
ing of the R. S. The sisters in both of the
last named places are striving to be self-
sustaining, by making all they can for home
wear.
	Sister Snow returned to Brigham City on
the 11th, and attended an interesting meet-
ing with the sisters on the 14th. They
are preparing themselves for raising silk;
the First Ward has nearly 5,000 mulberry
cuttings out, and the other three wards
have nearly as many more. They also
manufacture handsome artificial flowers.
It would be well for us if many more of
the settlements followed their example, at
least, from every county there should be
one or more sisters sent to learn flower-
making, straw-braiding, sewing and dye-
ing, making the hats and bonnets needed
for home wear; if they could not export
they would never need to import, and bless-
ings would attend our labors, and we would
be furnishing employment for the young.
	On the 15th and 16th we attended the sis-
ters' two days Quarterly Conference, Ogden.
We truly enjoyed a rich feast: the reports
read were very encouraging, Sister Richards
can surely rejoice over the result of her
labors and the prosperity of woman's work
in that part of the vineyard.
	Saturday, 17th, accompanied by Mrs. M.
I. Horne we were escorted by Sister White
and son to Morgan; we attended the two
days Quarterly Stake Conference also a
meeting held by Y. M. M. I. A.
	Monday, 18th, we visited Richville, West
Porterville and East Porterville, and met
with the sisters in each place. Sister Snow
organized the Y. L. M. I. A. in Richville,
and re-organized the Association in West
Porterville. 
	Tuesday, 19th, we met with our sisters
in Milton and Enterprise, and we found
the sisters, under the wise counsel given
them by Bishop J. K. Hall, trying to sus-
tain the name; here they braid and make
all the hats worn in the settlement. May
they be prospered in their every effort of
enterprise.
	Wednesday, 20th and 21st, attended two
meetings, one in North and one in South
Morgan Wards.
	Friday, 22d, we started for Croyden; al-
though it was raining and disagreeable, the
children of the settlement came some dis-
tance out to meet us, and cheered us by
their song of welcome. We were escorted
to Bro. Thackeray's by Bishop Hopkins and
many of the brethren and sisters who had

[Column 2]
come out with the children to meet us, one
brother carrying a banner with the inscrip-
tion, "Welcome to Croyden." Sister Snow
organized the young ladies at the evening
meeting; the afternoon meeting was a
general meeting and attended by brethren
and sisters, old and young.
	Saturday, 23d, we visited Henneferville-
attended meeting in the afternoon, and at
the request of Bishop Richens, we attend
ed meeting in the evening, and Sister Snow
assisted in re-organizing the Relief Society;
of Henneferville, also gave excellent in-
structions to the sisters, and encouraged
them to persevere in every good word and
work. Sister Horne explained the object
of our organizations, and the order and
government of Relief Societies.
	Sunday, 24th, we attend Sacrament meet-
ing at Echo. Found the Saints, although
few in number, doing their best to be one
both the brethren and sisters. In the eve-
ning we were invited, by Bishop Asper
and Counsel, to address the Saints. On
Monday we met with the sisters, and Miss
Snow and Mrs. Horne assisted in organiz-
ing a Relief Society. We were honored
with the presence of President Cluff and
family, Elder Alma Smith, and Sisters
Wilde, Reed, Robinson, and many others
from Coalville, also Bishop Richens and the
Choir of Henneferville.
	Tuesday we called on our friends at Coal-
ville, and attended meeting at 10 a. m.
Dined with many of the Saints at the resi-
dence of President Cluff. Although our
visit was short, we shall not soon forget the
enjoyable time we spent in Coalville; the
Spirit of God was beaming from every face,
and every one present could say it was good
to be there.
	We were delighted to be present at the
Morgan Co. Relief Society Stake Organization
with Mrs. Lydia Rich, President, Mrs.
Amanda Rollo and Jane Tanner, Counsel-
ors, Cordelia Smith, Secretary. Mrs. Sarah
A. Rawle, Superintendent of the Stake for
Y. L. M. I. A.
	Every settlement we visited the brethren
honored us with their presence; they left
their harvest fields and attended meeting,
sustaining and blessing us with their faith
and society. Elder W. G. Smith, President
Morgan Co. Stake, and wife accompanied
us to four settlements, Peterson being the
last, where we had a good meeting and an
enjoyable time with our friends.
	We thank the brethren for their confi-
dence and respect, and for every kindness
shown us on our tour, and our sisters for
their entertainment and kind attention.
ELIZABETH DAVIS.


THE YELLOW Fever still continues its
devastating work in the "sunny South,"
yet there is a prospect that after the frost
sets in it may abate; but now a still more
appaling feature of suffering has become
known in Brazil, a famine, which, as writ-
ten up by the correspondent of the New
York Evening Post, at Rio Janiero, is too
horrible for contemplation, and it is impos-
sible to calculate the fearful consequences.
That country has been without water since
July, 1876.
LONGFELLOW, THE poet, has five chil-
dren--Onslow, the eldest, is married and a
man of business in Boston; Ernest is a
rising young painter, studying abroad;
Alice, the eldest of the girls, is a pleasing
writer, unmarried; Edith is a golden-haired
young lady of twenty-five, who has just
married the third son of Richard H. Dana,
Jr.; and Anna is said to be literary in her
inclinations.--EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.
 My husband traveled with Joseph the
Prophet, through many of the Eastern cit-
ies, bearing their testimony and collecting
means towards building a Temple in Kirt-
land, and also to purchase lands in Missouri.
During this journey the Prophet Joseph of-
ten prophesied of the destruction that
would come upon the cities of the Eastern
States, and especially New York, that in
that city there would not be left a vestige
of its grandeur. That wars would soon
commence in our own land, which last has
since transpired; he said to my husband if
they reject us they shall have our testi-
mony, for we will write it and leave it up-
on their door-steps and window-sills; he
prophesied of the desolation by fire, by
storms, by pestilence and by earth-quakes.
After their return from the East they trav-
eled together up to Missouri, and while up-
on this journey my husband had his ankle
broken, and through the power of the ad-
ministration of the Gospel-ordinance and
faith, he was relieved from all pain; but by
Joseph's counsel returned home. During
all these absences and separations from my
husband I never felt to murmur or com-
plain in the least, and although heretofore
my husband's time had been devoted to
the business he was engaged in, and his
hours of leisure to his family in private
yet I was  more than satisfied to have
him give all, time, talents and ability
into the service of the Kingdom of God;
and the change in our circumstances and
associations which were consequent upon
our embracing the Gospel, never caused me
a moment's sorrow. I looked upon it as a
real pleasure to give all for the sake of my
faith in the religion of Jesus, considering
all as naught in comparison with the exam-
ple of our blessed Savior. We had a very
fine orchard and garden, all planned and
arranged according to our own taste and
skill, among other fruits we had a very
great quantity of the red currants, from
which we had ourselves manufactured wine
of a very superior flavor and quality, al-
though purely domestic, or home-made,
this wine we had appropriated for the sac-
rament, and was the first wine used by our
people for that purpose. It was about this
time my husband was ordained a Bishop by
revelation and commandment from God.
He was willing to accept the position know-
ing, as he did, that Joseph was a true
prophet, and that the only sure way to bo-
tain blessings and promises was through 
obedience; yet he felt that it would require
a vast amount of patience, of perseverance,
and of wisdom to magnify his calling.
We had always been in the habit of enter-
taining our friends and acquaintances gen-
erously and hospitably, but after we re-
ceived the Gosepl we did not feel like using
our means and time in a way that would
only benefit those who had an abundance
of this world's means. According to our
Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Proph-
et Joseph's and our own ideas of true char-
ity and disinterested benevolence, we de-
termined to make a Feast for the Poor,
such as we knew could not return the same
to us; the lame, the halt, the deaf, the
blind, the aged and infirm.
To be continued.


Now brown October comes, with russet
face and crown of autumn leaves, and va-
riegated garments rustling in the wind,
and keeping time to music of the forest
boughs.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			WOMAN'S LOVE. 

	How great a woman's love! How un-
bounded and truly self-sacrificing! How
noble, pure, refining and elevating! It is
stamped in her every feature. Every
movement, look, word, or action, portrays
the great love she bears humanity. It is
her greatest charm, her grandest endow-
ment. With it she governs the world. By
this great gift she refines and elevates all
mankind; all succumb to it, and love and
praise the possessor. Woman can never
sufficiently thank God for this great bless-
ing, nor fully realize nor admire the great
wisdom and beauty He exercised in be-
stowing it on her. Without the pure love
possessed by woman, what could she have
accomplished? How much influence would
she have held over the world? What
pleasure could have been felt in her pres-
ence? Or what effort would she have made
to gain the love and approbation of God?
None whatever; her life would have been
devoid of pleasure and usefulness—her
creation would have been almost in vain.
	Incaculable good has been brought about
by the ties of true friendship; sad hearts
have been cheered, oftentimes, by the sym-
pathy of a true friend. In every time,
Christian heart-friendship is prized and
cherished, and all those who have ever felt
its blessed influence, can not choose but
cultivate it. Life, to me, would be bereft
of its greatest charm, if the effect of friend-
ship were not felt. By a law of our being
we are compelled to love one another, but,
through carelessness and not adhering to
the laws of nature, we have grown to disre-
gard the importance of this great relation-
ship, and allowed ourselves to become our
first care and claim our greatest attention.
But this should not be. We must cultivate
love for our fellow-creatures, and strive to
more strictly keep God's commandments,
and "love our neighbor as ourself." With-
out friendship there is no union, and with-
out union there is no strength. We are all
sisters in feelings and objects, and now all
we require is to unite, and merge our ef-
forts into one community of kindred souls.
	O how great should be our struggle to
gain such a consummation!
	In life there is nothing sweeter than the
pure and confiding love which woman gives
to her husband. No ties on earth are so
sacred and binding as those of virtuous
wedlock. True love and chastity between
husband and wife are indispensable to hap-
piness; where this does not exist, there is
no true refining influence, no joy. The
Spirit of God is far away, and all is deso-
late and degrading. Oh, let us carefully
guard ourselves, that we may not be en-
gulfed in that fearful abyss. Let us keep
both body and soul perfectly pure and holy,
and plead constantly with God to keep us
from all wrong thoughts and actions.
	The love which God has given to moth-
ers, for their children, outreaches all other
feelings. It springs spontaneously from the
heart. It is a natural, pleasant duty, which
none but a mother can perform. No pas-
sion is so pure, so free from guile, so tender,
devoted and enduring as a mother's love.
None but a mother can experience that
heartfelt joy, on greeting a child just re-
turned from a long absence, or grieve over
its sorrow, as she can. God has made this
a law of our being, and no one can become
a mother without feeling maternal yearn-
ings; therefore, no one can fill her place,
either in their affection for their offspring,
or their influence over them. O mother,
what a great responsibility rests upon you!

[Column 2]
The characters of your children are in your
hands; to a great extent their destiny is
under your control; the plastic clay is in
your arms; oh, be careful in molding them,
and wisely use your power.
	Especially must mothers mold or fashion
the MORAL characters of their children;
they are the main educators, and without
home-education all other is useless; unless
they learn good manners at home, they will
be coarse and vulgar through life. Unless
they are taught refinement of sentiment
and delicacy of thought and feeling at
home, they will never possess it in any de-
gree. Their intellects mest receive an
early maternal direction, and their minds
be developed and drawn out, and a thirst-
ing after knowledge exercised by their
mothers. You plead a want of time. But
should you not attend first to that which is
most important! And what other duty has
God given you that is as momentous as
this? O think of It! No mortals fill any
relation to be compared with yours. The
vice or virtue of your children depend most
on the training they receive at your hands.
It should awaken the deepest emotions of
your hearts, and cause you to awaken from
your lethargy, and put forth every energy
of which you are capable. Pray earnestly
and constantly for wisdom, for grace, to
guide your children in paths of nobleness
and purity. Educate yourselves, that you
may be able to better educate your chil-
dren. Show them by practice that what
you teach them by precept is correct. Oh,
when I see so many of our youth growing
up in ignorance—when I think how easily
so many are carried away willing captives
by corrupt and degraded men, I tremble for
the future. But if the mothers would be
more careful, and teach their daughters in
their youth to guard against all such evils,
and store their minds with pure and true
knowledge, this would be remedied to a
great extent, and much good would be
done. I know that a mother's love is not
deficient in the quantity, she loves her child
enough, but not aright. But mothers must
learn to love their children intellectually
and morally. Love them, but guide their
maternal yearnings by enlightened intellect,
and govern it by high moral feeling.
	I would say to the unmarried, don't spend
your time in arraying yourself for the con-
vivial ball, or party, or changing the fashion
for your n[-]w dresses; you [-]ave other more
noble and higher duties to perform. Pre-
pare yourselves to become wives and moth-
ers. Study diligently, and embrace every
opportunity to improve your minds and
lend you new grace and wisdom. Culti-
vate in your hearts a love for everything
that is refining and beneficial, and never
think you are too good to assist your mother
in any household duty, or honorable labor
of any kind. Lay aside all affectation, and
adorn yourselves becomingly in nature's
loveliness. Be yourselves as God created
you, and you will be most happy and lova-
ble. O then, let us strive, in all our walks
through life, to be worthy of the great,
all-controlling love we receive from God.
It is the most blessed gift He can bestow.
Let us carefully nourish love for all God's
children, and constantly seek the benign
influence it exerts. Without it we would
become low and degraded, and lose all de-
sire for intelligence and purity. But the
more we possess, the greater will be our in-
fluence, the more glorious our achieve-
ments, the purer our lives, and the nearer
we shall be to God.
	It is the fulfillment of the law.
							C. E. [-].


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW THE WORLD MOVES.

	Lydia Marla Child, one of our ablest lit-
erary women, relates the following sugges-
tive experience:
	"When I was a young girl, the aged Han-
nah Adams was pointed out as a great curi-
osity, because she had written a short his-
tory of the Jews. Innumerable stories
were told how she had unsexed herself by
her learning. She was said not only to be
unconscious of a hole in her stocking, but
to be absolutely unable to recognize her
own face in a glass; and if that was not
being unfortunate, pray tell me what could
be. When I published my first book, I
was gravely warned by some of my female
acquaintances that no woman could expect
to be regarded as a lady after she had
written a book."
	In those days, the woman who put her
thoughts and opinions into print was re-
garded very—and the woman who wants
to help govern herself is now—a monstrosi-
ty out of her sphere.—Ex.


BANGED HAIR AND CLOSE DRESSES.

[Correspondence of the Woman's Journal.]

	Every day I meet in the streets of Boston
young ladies, who would otherwise look in-
telligent, reduced to the appearance of
idiocy by a peculiar method of combing
the hair down over the forehead. The
hideous deformity is evidently copied from
the patients of lunatic asylums and schools
for the feeble-minded. The effect is shock-
ing. Although not fastidious, I shrink
from these ladies as children shrink from a
hideous mask. It is a protest against being
considered strong-minded that the young
women thus assume the garb of idiocy. I
am told that a young lady thus degraded is
said to have her hair "banged." But it
seems to me that her sanity must be badly
banged to thus deform herself.
	The present hot weather is made more
intolerable by the spectacle of women with
dresses which cling to their forms with a
closeness positively indelicate — dresses
drawn back by some strange attachment
behind which fetters every movement.  If
the "banged" young woman has made my
blood run cold, the pulled-back lady throws
me into a profuse perspiration out of sym-
pathy with her self-inflicted martyrdom.
Will the ladies of the New England wo-
man's club kindly inform me why women
thus make guys of themselves?


[Column 1]
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878,

AN Immense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just recieved from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
at
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

[Column 3]
ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASLS of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.
	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCT. 15, 1878. 				NO. 10.


For the EXPONENT.
BY THE BROOK.

	I've been sitting by the brook to-day,
And listening to its flow;
And lightly on its laughing way,
	It gurgled sweet and low.
I sat down on its mossy bank,
	And leaned against a tree,
And asked, and answered, as I sat.
	Swift questions, it and me.

	"Why art thou still and sad," it said,
	"With brow knit tight with pain?
Why canst thou not the world enjoy,
	When joy chants high her strain?"

	"O brook," I answered, "thou canst tell
	Of joys and pleasures moving:
But how canst thou know aught, in truth,
	Of pain, born oft of loving.
Thou hast not had my baby's arms.
	Around thee close enfolded;
Thou hast not known her gentle power,
	Or nature, angel-moulded.

"Her dimpled fingers never clasped
Your own in baby pressure;

And how can you, a simple brook,
	Know why I love my treasure?"

	"But how can all that you have told,
	Bring sorrow to your heart?
Has death's dark hand, with cruel grasp,
	Compelled you two to part?"

	"Ah, no, sweet brook; and were it so,
	My brow were all unknit;
And here to-day with quiet eyes
	And calmest heart I'd sit.
For, knowing that my floweret rare
	Were in His careful keeping,
With patience I would pray and wait,
	And rest my heart with weeping.

	"By grasp more fierce than death's, sweet brook,
	She's been removed from me;
And all her loving ways and looks,
	No more, no more I see.
Man's cruel word betrayed my heart,
	And left it cold and bleeding.--
What cares that man, in all his pride,
	For the wife's tears and pleading! 

	"I prayed them with a mother's tears,
	And offered all I owned,
To only keep my little ones,
	That Heaven had to me loaned.
Soften, O God, the hardened hearts
	That flung aside my trust,
And heeded neither tears nor prayers!
	But said it was but just. 

	"But just! O God, didst Thou
	E'er ordain such thing?
That we must suffer all the pain,
	And only know the sting?
Must woman ever toil and weep,
	And travail for the world,
And man sit over her, and judge	
	With scornful lip upcurled?

	"And so, dear brook, my heart is sad,
	And crushed with rarest pain;
And I have come in solitude
	To pour forth my refrain."

	"Full well I see why thou art sad.
	With darkly-clouded eyes;
And surely more than human thou;
	If it were otherwise.
But let me tell you what I know,
	A brook though I may be;
The triumph of the right will come,
	For God doth all things see.

	"Too long has woman been the one
	To suffer and to weep,
The time has come when men will find
	That justice will not sleep.
And woman will uprise and show
	How cruel is her wrong;
And conscious of her pow'r for good,
	She'll move amid the throng.


WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

		THE THEME OF LATTER-DAYS

Dear Editor :--Although a native of dear
New England, I also claim to be a "Woman
of Utah," by virtue of a quarter of a cen-
tury's residence in these peaceful vales,
which are far dearer to me than even the
land of my birth. How often has my heart
gone forth in praise and gratitude to my
Heavenly Father, that I have been privi-
leged to rear my family in this goodly land,
so far from the strife, turmoil and persecu-
tion that surrounded me in the days of my
childhood; for my footsteps have ever
walked in the pathway of the Saints, and
in the early days it was ofttimes thorny
and tempestuous. O how I revere these
grand old mountains, that hold us so se-
curely in their peaceful embrace. But I
am forgetting my subject--Woman's 
Rights. As privilege has been given,
through the columns of your highly valued
paper, to the women of Utah, to express
their thoughts and sentiments, I for the
first time attempt to do so.
	I deem the most sacred right of woman
the custody of her children. To me this is
Godliness. If we look at the lower order
of creation we will see that the young re-
main with the mother, until, by maturity,
they become independent creatures, capa-
ble in turn of acting for themselves. How
much more should we, who claim to be in-
telligent beings, with the stamp of Deity
upon us, adhere to this sublime law of na-
ture. I rejoice to think by the laws of our
holy religion this tie is acknowledged as
binding and imperative; but as the laws of
the land deviate from this, it is against
those that I wish to protest.
	A just, righteous, God-fearing man is my
adoration; but that man alone has the right
to make laws to govern woman in matters
of such vital importance as this, I do not
believe; at least, not without a fair repre-
sentation on our part to sanction them. I
will admit that cases have come under my
observation, where women have seemed
unfit to take charge of their offspring, but
these cases were rare and isolated ones,
where all purity was crushed from their
souls by the cruelty and injustice of man.
In exceptional cases of this kind let there
be a remedy; but where a mother is at all
capable let her have her children. Let not
the holy and sacred bonds of motherhood
be torn asunder and laid on the altar of in-
justice. I do not sanction the separation of
husband and wife for trifling occasions; but
I think it the duty of each to bear and for-
bear until this ceases to be a virtue; but
when the crisis does come, and there are
children in the case, were I a legislator I
would frame a law for them in this wise:
The woman should be judged by her sisters.
There should be a petition, to be signed by
the women of the particular town, ward, or
neighborhood where the woman resides, and
if they, by their judgment, consider the
woman at all capable of the care of the
young, the children should be given to her.
When men are divorced from their wives,
they generally exhibit a certain degree of
spitefulness toward their wives, and in my
humble opinion, it is more to gratify this
feeling than from an overflow of philo-pro-
genitiveness, that they strive to retain the
children. That they do this is proof posi-
tive to me that they were uncongenial in
the domestic relations, and that the wife
was perfectly justified in leaving them to
their own wretchedness.
	Now, dear reader, I have no axe to grind
in this matter, for my half dozen children
cluster round the sacred altar of home, with
their own father and mother presiding; but
my heart has been pained by the sorrows
of others, and I have many times felt to cry
aloud in their behalf. Lest I weary your
patience I will close. If this is consigned
to the waste-basket, all right.
		MA. GOODWIN.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 6, 1878.


THE TOTAL number of petitioners for
Parliamentary Woman Suffrage last season
was 173,522.
 THE FIRST annual meeting of the Illinois
Social Science Association was held in Chi-
cago, Thursday and Friday, Oct. 3d and 4th.
OUR WASHINGTON OFFICE.--In accord-
ance with our plan indicated in July num-
ber, we have opened an office for "Woman's
Words" in Washington, D. C., where we
shall catch the words of wisdom or folly
from men and women of all the nations
under the sun.
Our new location is in the marble build-
ing, northwest corner of 11th and Pennsyl-
vania avenue, recently leased by the Wash-
ington "Sunday Republic."  It is directly
opposite the ever beaming genial "Evening
Star," a little way from the "Daily Repub-
lican," on the road to the "Daily Post," in
sight of the Capitol building, and upon the
great national thoroughfare to the White
House.
 If more were needed to make the new
office desirable, it is directly under the
friendly wing of the bright and popular
weekly, the "Sunday Republic, edited by
the talented J. Brisben Walker, aided by a 
host of contributors well known to fame.
S. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENTdiv="">74						WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
		
	div="">74    WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<f -="" 's.!3a;="" petersen;-pfedl’dbht,'!="" ‘="" ;="" ?="" i="" -i="" (i="" ellen="" mddsen="" q="" .="" ,wv="" '-ellen’="" dohusj:="" -ji="" l="" -agnes="" sv="" alinstrobg]="" sec’-y.1-1="" v:t.j:i="" i!="" nov'j="" k="" i:1="" t.-hii="" in;="" jimisantaquinj'sbpt;="" 22d,="" 1878l="" ..'="" v="" editor1-1="" exponent="" :="" “="" '="" ,="" "="" )1="" iv="" .c'sv="" the="" beliefsociety="" of:.this="" plaqq.heitt.="" their="" t.qntb="" annual="" meeting="" sept.="" 5,1878.="" ourreports="" were="" all="" duly="" jead="" by="" pur="" sec-="" retary="" showing="" that="" we="" bad="" rieceiyed="" dur-="" ingthey.earindonationsylaho.rji&cmslo="" 82)="" disbursed="" during="" year,="" tpthe="" temple,="" missionaries,="" poor,="" and="" fqr="" charitable="" purposes,$102="" 90.="" arepott.of="" the.="" past="" fen.="" years="" was="" also="" read="" ,:commencing="" sept'="" fst,="" 8q8,="" ending="" aug.="" 31st,="" i&7$j="" shqwinglhat="" we.-had="" received="" he="" ;ten="" years,="" in,="" donatlonst="" dividend="" labor,="" .$1896="" 83j="" teu="" to="" ;the="" temi="" pie,="" pqorf.and="" forcharit-,="" able="" purposes,="" $ip92,="" i2i?;="" our="" w?i1="" atfeuded;="" had="" sisters="" present="" frpm="" alt="" lake="" cityj="" provp)="" gosbqn,="" benjamin="" city;="" and,="" spring.="" lake.="" was,="" addressed="" mrs="" m.="" t.1="" smoot,="" lucy="" b.="" young,="" pfes...s,tickneyr,and="" bishop,="" george="" halladay,of="" whom="" expressed="" entire="" satjsfactipn="" -at="" hear-="" ing="" accounts="" read,="" -thinking="" for="" ;this="" small="" place="" doipg="" welly="" alive="" duties.="" bchoolhouso="" neatly="" decorated="" occasiqn="" with="" articles="" of="" home="" industry,="" consisting="" guilts,.cover-="">			R. S. REPORTS.

		WANSHIP, Sept. 12th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Branch Relief Society of Wanship
is in a prosperous condition, with twenty-
eight members.  The reorganization took
place Dec. 18, 1876.  Bishop Atwood and
Bishop Roundy being present, also several
others of the brethren, Mrs. Louisa J.
Roundy was appointed President, who has
been very active and persevering in her
duty up to this time, Mrs. Mary Reynolds
having previously resigned her office, being
called to remove from Wanship for a sea-
son.
	Our meetings are well attended, peace
and love dwell in our midst.  We have the
"Life of Brigham Young" and the "Wo-
men of Mormondom" to circulate and read.
There are several who take the EXPONENT,
and in doing our duty we feel well and en-
joy the spirit of the Gospel.  Some of our
sisters are good speakers, and all are gener-
ally on the improve in faith and good works.
We hope to be able to withstand the
scourges which await Babylon, wherever
she is found.
 Our Financial report for the past year is
as follows:

Paid to the Temple............................... $31 90
Disbursed to those in need.................  40 00
Wheat stored, 34 bushels.
Donations for general purposes........    54 00
Cash in Treasury...................................   20 50
Remaining in Society in goods.............   63 60

	We feel it important to be up and doing,
as we look at the significant signs of the
times, and we know that we must be hum-
ble and faithful to be able to stand.
	Very respectfully,
		Louisa J. Roundy, President,
		Sarah S. Richards, } Counselors,
		Marla Horton,
		Phebe M. Hatch, Secretary,
		Alice Roundy, Assistant Secretary,
		Hannah Crook, Treasury.

	BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, Aug. 7, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I think we are improving a little; as a
Society we number seventy members, about
forty average attendants.  Our meetings
are on the first Thursday of every month.
	The 24th of July was celebrated here in
a very pleasant manner; we had a dinner
provided at the schoolhouse, superintended
by the president of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Sarah Greenhatch, and the teachers, when
I believe every family in Bloomington were
invited to partake of the good things pro-
vided.  We had a meeting in the forenoon,
and were addressed by Presidents J. H.
Hart and George Osman, and Bishop
Hulme and others.  The Sunday School
children enjoyed themselves in the dance,
and we had a very good time.
	We have done very little about storing
grain yet; we have about thirteen bushels
of wheat and four hundred pounds of flour,
and intend, if we have health and strength,
to have more in a little while.  Our Presi-
dent has appointed a committee to purchase
wheat and store it up until a time of need.
A number of the young ladies of the Im-
provement Society, as well as some of the
older ones, go to the field and glean wheat
three days in each week, and they feel
blessed and happy in their work.  Bishop
Hulme called on the brethren to help the
gleaners by taking them in their wagons to
and from the field, and bringing their grain
home for them.
	Our financial condition for the past year
is as follows:

Disbursed to the Logan Temple............... $36 00
To the poor..................................................   28 60
Shares in Co-op store.................................   70 00

	The Lord has blessed the people in Bear
Lake Valley this year with a beautiful har-
vest.
	Praying that the blessing of God may at-
tend you, and that your beautiful little pa-
per may be more widely circulated, that
many others may rejoice in its good teach-
ings, we remain,
		SARAH GREENHATCH, President,
		ELIZABETH LANG, Secretary.

					EPHRAIM, Aug. 20th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The following is our Quarterly Report.

Monthly donations in sundries.............$ 51 07
Cheese made by the sisters during
	the quarterly term 755 lbs @ 20.   153 00
Sunday eggs, 307 1/3 doz., @13 cts....     39 91
	Total income during the term  243 98 1/2

Disbursements during quarter,
To poor, in storepay................................ 41 00
Rents......................................................... 10 00
Sundries................................................... 6 55
To Temple at Manti, 138 lbs of
	cheese @ 20 cts per lb.................... 27 60
Labor performed by J. Broderick........... 18 75
Paid to shares on the range................... 5 00
	Total  51 35

Total outlay from May 17 till Aug.
	17, 1878.............................................. 108 80
				S. A. Petersen, President,
				Ellen Madsen, } Counselors,
				Ellen Dorius,
				Agnes S. Armstrong, Sec'y.

				SANTAQUIN, Sept. 22d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held
their Tenth Annual meeting Sept. 5, 1878.
Our reports were all duly read by our Sec-
retary showing that we had received dur-
ing the year in donations, labor, &c., $210 82;
disbursed during the year to the Temple,
missionaries, the poor, and for charitable
purposes, $102 90.  A report of the past ten
years was also read, commencing Sept. 1st,
1868, ending Aug. 31st, 1878; showing that
we had received during the ten years, in
donations, dividends and labor, $1896 83;
disbursed during the ten years to the Tem-
ple, missionaries, the poor and for charit-
able purposes, $1092 29.
	Our meeting was well attended; we had
sisters present from Salt Lake City, Provo,
Goshen, Benjamin City, and Spring Lake.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. M. T.
Smoot, Lucy B. Young, Pres. Stickney, and
our Bishop, George Halladay, all of whom
expressed their entire satisfaction at hear-
ing our accounts read, thinking for this
small place we were doing well, and alive
to our duties.  Our Schoolhouse was neatly
decorated for the occasion with articles of
home industry, consisting of quilts, cover-
lids, shawls, tidies, homespun cloth, and a
towel made of sweet clover, by Sister Mar-
garet Arleen, and also nearly three pecks
of cocoons were displayed for the inspec-
tion of our brethren and sisters, which ex-
cited a great deal of curiosity.
	We are striving in our weak way to do
all the good we can to help build up the
kingdom of God.  Wishing you great suc-
cess, we remain yours in the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
				E. J. STICKNEY, Pres't.
				E. CARTER, Sec'y.

			GLENWOOD, Sept. 2d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Although slow to report ourselves, we are
not behind in the good work;  We number
nearly fifty members, average attendance
between twenty and thirty.  Within the
last four years we have donated.

St. George Temple................................ $25 75
Meeting House......................................  34 75
Welsh Emigration Fund........................  25 00
Manti Temple........................................  17 50
In Co-op Store.......................................  55 00
To the poor............................................ 7 00
	We have stored 161 bu. of wheat.  We
are endeavoring to do the best we can; this
is a new country, and there are no rich
among us, yet we are not poor.  The sisters
generally feel well.  We have the "Women
of Mormondom," and we take the EXPO-
NENT, which we find very interesting.
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			Mary Ann Buchanan, President,
			Martha Sampson, } Counselors,
			Maria Powell,
			Maria Powell, Secretary,
			Amelia Buchanan, Treasurer.


THE FAIR.

	The Territorial Fair held in this City,
under the auspices of the D. A. and M.
Society, commenced Wednesday, Oct. 2, in
the City Market, and was open four days,
and each day was crowded with visitors. It
was undoubtedly the finest display of all
the varieties of exhibits that there has
ever been in this Territory. Those who
had the management of the several depart-
ments and the awarding of prizes deserve
great commendation for their tact, courtesy
and appreciation. The leather and shoe
department cannot be too highly praised,
and the excellence of the home manufac-
tures throughout deserve special mention.
The drawings, paintings, ornamental and
fancy work were worthy a place, and con-
vey the idea in a tangible form that there
is a love of the beautiful among the young
people, which deserves encouragement and
patronage. It is impossible to mention all,
or specify works of merit, the awarding
committee have already determined that
fact, but we will say the live stock on ex-
hibition was superior in beauty and quality.
Altogether it was a fine display, and it will
create a growing interest in the people of
Utah to excel and produce the very best
quality of fruits, flowers, manufactures of
all kinds, and live stock.


WOMEN VS. GIRLS.—Women ought to be
of more importance to society than girls,
but who does not know that the case is ex-
actly the reverse? How many women do 
we all know who shrink from society, give
their whole time to family duties, bury
themselves up at home, and seem to be of
no other use in the world than to dress their
girls for parties, and keep the house in or-
der for their beaux. Of course the chil-
dren grow up with the idea that mother is
of no consequence and don't know the 
world. They go abroad for their opinions,
and spurn all home influence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


THE MEMORY OF THE HEART.
If stores of dry and learned lore we gain,
We keep them in the memory of the brain,
Names, things, and facts — whate'er we knowl[-]dge call
There is a common ledger for them all;
And images on this cold surface traced
Make slight impression, and are soon effaced.

But we've a page more glowing and more bright,
On which our friendship and our love to write.
That these may never from the soul depart,
We trust them to the memory of the heart.
There is no dimming, no effacement there,
Each new pulsation keeps the record clear;
Warm golden letters all the tablet fill,
Nor lose their lustre till the heart stands still.
							DANIEL WEBSTER.


<fc ri.01d.="" friends="" and="" true,="" come="" you="" with="" me.to-nlght!="" 'i="" t-jand="" in.the="" shadow="" of="" the="" witching,hours,="" jr="" ,‘ll="" wander,in="" the.forests="" as="" o(old,="" there="" inclustqrlog="" beauty,="" bright,="" e'en="" os'the="" radlanceof="" summer="" flowrs,="" i="" .gather="" thosoleaves="" crimson="" gold,="" such="" we="" gathered="" in="" “long="" ago,’1="" -r="" ;="" ere="" had="" tasted="" life’s="" cup="" woe.="" or="" h'-,="" those="" autumn="" leaves="" are="" wound="" around="" my="" heart,="" tendrlisstronger="" than="" touch="" time,="" bloom="" brighten="" ev’ry="" season="" round;="" tiff,the="" pjemjrieslheyenshrinecannptdepart.="" i-y="" andhauntglmasvithtbeedenespf-otherday?.="" 1="" tbe="" eheslniit="" burrs="" troi!="" binfeath="" our="" feet,'‘="" soil="" jremlnded.us="" that="" life="" thorny="" ways,="" tie="" bnt="" jve="" were="" blaming,tqdi;hkothoeo;="" bright="" leaves,="" lnour="" inpocence,="" andoy="" complete,="" a'="" trac'd="" not="" thfe="" barker="" days,="" ’v="" 0="" m="" -but="" only="" saw="" harvest’s="" golden="" sheaves,="" :="" n.thauay="" before.ualathe="" edrillng="" years,="" -="" "="" wot="" wc-="" must="" sow="" peed="" tears.="" al="" b="" .="" .but="" tender="" hopes="" sweetest="" fancies="" oling,;.="" 7="" ground="" along="" life's'way,="" u="" (="" 's&1="" ‘they'gladden="" winter,="" hoino="" 'arid="" heart?="" &="" .i="" and.="" when="" children="" thfelr="" ribb="" clusters="" bring,="" ean$="" weayeffiem="" gnrlflnd?of="" leafletsgay,.t="" tears="" lnyoluntaiuy="" will="" start;="" wonder="" if,="" like="" me,="" jn="" they'll="" "bind="" chords="" love="" these="" leaves.="" ao="" -salt="" take="" cltt,="" oct-11,'1871="" 1878.="" -’="" v="" 4="" esix="" emile.="" i:<="" div="">						[For the EXPONENT.
			AUTUMN LEAVES.

	Old friends and true, come you with me to-night!
	And in the shadow of the witching hours,
	We'll wander in the forests as of old,
	And there in clustering beauty, bright,
	E'en as the radiance of summer flow'rs,
	Gather those leaves of crimson and of gold,
	Such as we gathered in the "long ago,'
	Ere we had tasted of life's cup of woe.

	Those Autumn leaves are wound around my heart,
	With tendrils stronger than the touch of time,
	And bloom and brighten ev'ry season round;
	The mem'ries they enshrine cannot depart,
	But with each new affection intertwine.
	And each year is some precious token found,
	That brings the old-time forests to my gaze.
	And haunts me with "the scenes of other days."

	The [-]hestnut burrs we trod beneath our feet,
	Reminded us that life had thorny ways,
	But we were blooming then; like those bright leaves,
	And in our innocence, and joy complete,
	Trac'd not the shadow of the darker days,
	But only saw the harvest's golden sheaves,
	That lay before us in the coming years,
	And wot not we must sew the seed in tears.

	But tender hopes and sweetest fancies [-]ling
	Around the Autumn leaves along life's way,
	They gladden Winter, brighten home and heart;
	And when my children their rich clusters bring,
	And weave them garlands of the leaflets gay,
	The tears involunta[-]ily will start;
	I wonder if, like me, in golden sheaves,
	They'll bind with chords of love these Autumn leaves.

Salt Lake City, Oct. 11, 1878.					EMILE.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
		TIRED MOTHERS.

	If there is any class of persons who need
tenderness and encouragement it is the
tired mothers; weary limbs, sad hearts, and
puzzled brains all attest to the fact.  There
ought to be special privileges granted to
tired mothers, as much as to invalids.
Those who have passed through this trying
ordeal know how to sympathize, know how
to excuse many of the shortcomings of
those who are passing through the narrow
gateways, the thorny paths, the rough high-
ways, where temptation holds high revelry,
and the angel of peace sits in shadow.
	Tired mothers! always anxious, schem-
ing, planning and economizing how they
can manage every detail of domestic life
with least expense, for children are such a
drain upon all the resources of one’s time,
heart and pocket.  Mothers doing double
work, triple work themselves, to save for
this, or that, until the nerves are strained
and shattered to a degree unbearable to
themselves, and particularly offensive to
others. Let me entreat you, fathers and
husbands, deal gently with the wife and
mother; cheer and brighten her life by all
the means in your power, for she needs
your help in many ways, to buoy her up
and sustain her, that she may be nerved
with fresh vigor to impart to the little ones
who are a constant drain upon her life and
[column 2]
energies. Give her smiles and kind words
and minister in kindly needs, and such at-
tentions as you have lavished on her in her
girlhood, ere she knew aught of the cares
and perplexities that wait on the footsteps
of after years, and cloud, offtimes, the
sunny home, sometimes bursting forth in
trememdous claps of domestic thunder, such
as deafen and deaden, perchance, the finest
and acutest capabilities of the human soul.
After these storms there sometimes comes,
'tis true, a dead calm, but it is not of that
nature of which contentment is born, but
rather that which paralyzes the best ener-
gies and truest, affections. Oftener still,
perhaps, there comes a series of these
storms, until it is impossible to quell them,
and the whole domestic drama is changed
from its pristine glory and strife; turmoil
and dissension take the places where peace
and happiness and love should sit enthroned.
A great deal is said of woman's power to
make her home pleasant, to guide her off-
spring, to cheer her husband; to strengthen
his hands, in short to be the constant star
in the horizon of home, always brightening
and gladdening the faces and hearts of 
those who assemble round the family hearth-
stone.  All this is true of woman's influ-
ence, but where does woman get all this
wonderful stock of power to diffuse, and 
why does she ever lose it?  These are ques-
tions to be answered.  We are told woman's
nature is especially adapted to the home
circle; granted--but has she an ever effer-
vescing overflow of amiability, and can she
pour forth in smiles, and songs, and works
and deeds of love from the fountain of her
inmost soul, without feeling the terrible
reaction that always follows a continued
drain upon any one source, when not re-
plenished in proportion.  I think not.
Woman wants man's help, his faith his
sympathy, his tenderness, his affection and
she appreciates any demonstration of his
constancy and devotion to the utmost.  In
the home where the mother is most con-
stantly occupied, to the exclusion of almost
every selfish gratification, there are contin-
ual trials of patience pertaining to her
daily cares and her little ones, and only
God for her to go to and unburthen her
weary soul; here is where the spiritual-
minded mother becomes strong; but occas-
sionally despondent feelings gain the mas-
tery, even of the most religiously inclined;
and if the husband is forgetful of the wife,
where shall she look for strength for cour-
age?  Many a mother, for the want of
counsel at the right time, has committed
indiscretions in the management of her
children, that has caused sorrow for all con-
cerned; whereas, if father and mother
were united as husband and wife should be,
much of this might be avoided.  But this
is too wide a field to venture upon at the
close of an article, and I forbear, but wish
to add that tired mothers ought to be ten-
derly cared for and carefully treated by
those whose name they bear, whose off-
spring they are nursing, tending and rear-
ing.  There are many little ways in which
the mother may be stimulated to renewed
efforts, but her time and brain are so en-
grossed by her positive condition and cir-
cumstances, that she often fails to gather
hope and grace equal to her needs.  Then
can the husband make himself specially
dear, if he but tender his advice and sym-
pathies, and let her see he realizes how no-
bly she is seeking to fulfill her part in the 
great programme of life.  I know it is often
said the husband is driven from his home,
and frequently resorts to the grogshop and 
the club for relief from trouble; but sup-
posing that the husband, in all the strength
[column 3]
and nobility of his glorious manhood,
should aid, by his own active exertions, in 
making home a heaven, where the tired
mother might find that stay and anchor
that is needed when the nervous energies
are exhausted by the wear and tear that is 
incident to the life of the mother.  There
is also a monotony in woman's life that is
as deleterious to health and activity as the
exertions she is required to make in fulfill-
ing home duties and obligations.  Women
often do not see that they are really not
only doing themselves a great injustice by
confining themselves too closely to the 
kitchen, the nursery, or the sewing ma-
chine, but they become disagreeable in con-
sequence of this very devotion.  They
want bracing up and invigorating, and as
those who look on, can see better and dis-
criminate clearer than the actor who is en-
gaged in the work, so the husband, seeing
the wife too much absorbed with domestic
affairs, might perhaps save her and himself
much unhappiness, by inducing her to go
out now and then and interest herself in
something that will conduce to health and
strength of body and mind.  This sort of
treatment, in many instances, would not
only save paying doctors' bills, but give a 
higher relish and tone to the enjoyments of 
home.  I would not wish to be understood
as dictating to men, oh no; but simply tell-
ing them some of the needs and longings
of tired mothers, without entering into de-
tails of causes and effects.
	An able senator of the United States, in
a public speech recently, said in the evils
which afflict our country today he "traced
the want of influence of the fireside vir-
tues," and appeals to the mothers of Ameri-
ca in glowing language, telling them what
great power lies in their hands.  All this
is very true; but although the home is the 
nursery of principles, and the mother the
first teacher, yet there is need of real co-
operation between fathers and mothers, and
mutual help from each, to lay the founda-
tion of such virtues and characteristics as
shall eventually ripen into glorious man-
hood  womanhood.  If the mother must
be made answerable, to a limited extent
even, for all the wrongs and transgressions
of which the world is full, then it behooves
woman herself to be strong, healthful, ac-
tive, with the largest available stock of gen-
eral intelligence on all possible subjects.  It
may be that this will qualify her to choose
for her companion and the father of her
children, one endowed with all the best re-
quisites for man's high and holy destiny,
and one who will possess not only the supe-
rior courage of true manhood, but also com-
bine with it the geniality and adaptability
that will give him prestige at his own fire-
side, that will be perceptibly felt by all, and 
especially the tired mother.
						AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Oct. 10 1878.


For lack of space in our columns, we were
compelled to leave out the Quarterly Con-
ference and other items which were ready
for publication; they will appear in our next.
The editorial is also unfinished because 
there was not room.
	A FEW of the sisters of the Relief Society
are about to visit the country settlements.
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. E. Howard and
E. Davis to Malad, Morgan, Samaria,
Porterville, and settlements north. Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne and E. S. Taylor to Farm-
ington; Mrs. Zina D. Young and E. B.
Wells south, to Lehi, American Fork,
Spanish Fork and Goshen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

 THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.     Editor.


   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
   Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
   Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					            Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. OCT, 15, 1878.


OUR RELIEF SOCIETIES.

SIMILAR ORGANIZATIONS WANTED BY
		CHRISTIAN MINISTERS﻿.

	Reading recently in the "Watchman," a
popular Boston paper, an article on "Christian
Women," we could not help constrasting the
perfect working order of the Relief Societies
of this Territory with the condition of those
highly educated, intellectual, noble women of
the Eastern States. The very words of that
Christian Minister should prove to him that
the system of charity established here is just
what he desires. Hear what he says: "In the
midst of the talk on Woman's Rights and Wo-
man's Wrongs, the church would do well to
take advantage of the hour, and map out a 
broader field of usefulness for the women in
our churches. A few have taken hold of mis-
sions, some have enlisted in the temperance
cause, but the great mass yet hug the old indif-
ference, and stand aloof from all public chari-
ties." * * The writer refers to Catholic Sis-
ters of Charity, and says they have done im-
mense good; but in continuation: "We want
no such sisterhoods as the Catholic Church has
founded, superintended and ruled over by a 
bachelor priesthood, but a sisterhood organized
and conducted by able and experienced Chris-
tian women, might find a place of work as
wide as the circumference of Christian char-
ity."
	In Utah such an organization really exists,
founded by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and
these organizations have made Mormon women
spiritually strong, and given them more exalted
views of true charity. There has been more
real good effected through these organizations
than one would think, were the facts not liter-
ally apparent. This minister says: "We can
imagine that a Protestant sisterhood, with
such a person as Selina, Countess of Hunting-
don, Madame Guyon, Mrs. Frey, Florence
Nightingale, or some of the Christian women
whose names we could speak; who live around
us here, at its head, might be a great and won-
derful blessing to Protestant society."
	Here there is just what this minister calls
for, and noble Mormon, Christian women at
its head—women who have borne persecution,
and been purified by suffering, until "their very
failings lean to virtue's side;" women of the
best blood of Puritanical New England, and
Old England; women who would take their 
lives in their hands, as it were, to sustain cor-
rect principles; women, in fact, who have done
it. Such women are Eliza R. Snow, Zina D.
Young, and M. Isabella Horne; these are only
three of the great army of noble women who
work continuously in the interest of Relief So-
cieties—one of them a literal descendent of the
very Huntingdon family to which this writer
alludes, a Huntingdon of New England


The writer referred to says; "There is a want
that our economy does not supply." The econo-
my of the Church of Jesus Christ has left no
such vacancy, for it is perfect in its organiza-
tion for men and women.
	Mrs. Sarah Andrews Spencer, in the edito-
rial department of "Woman's Words" for Oc
tober, says: "At our next Convention in Wash-
ington, let us by all means have one or more of
the enterprising, public-spirited women of
Utah present. If we mistake not our Gentile
sisters have much to learn from these heroic
women. What we read of their business,
ability, courage and patriotism is an inspira-
tion to us."	E. B. Wells


SEMI ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Forty-Eighth Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, convened in the large Tabernacle in
this city, Sunday, October 6th, at 10 a.m.  The
gathering was the largest which has ever as-
sembled in the building.  On the stand were
President John Taylor, Elders Orson Pratt,
Orson Hyde, Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon,
F. D. Richards, C. C. Rich, Joseph F. Smith,
Brigham Young, Albert Carrington, D. H.
Wells, and other officers of the High Priest-
hood, among whom were many of the Presi-
dents of Stakes.  There was a good attendance
of the Tabernacle Choir, conducted by Prof.
Careless, and Prof. J. Daynes, at the organ.
President Taylor called the attention of the
Conference, and it was opened by the choir
singing "I saw a mighty angel fly." Opening
prayer by Elder George Q. Cannon.  Choir
sang, "Author of faith." Elders Orson Hyde
and C. C. Rich addressed the morning meeting,
Elder George Q. Cannon occupied the after-
noon.
	Monday, Oct. 7, second day of Conference,
Elder Orson Pratt, Elder Joseph F. Smith
and President John Taylor preached in the
morning. In the afternoon Elder George Q.
Cannon read the report of President John Tay-
lor, Trustee-in-ltrust, which report was endorsed
by his assistants, the Twelve Apostles, their
Counselors, the Presiding Bishop and the Au-
diting Committee.  Elder Lorenzo Snow then
spoke briefly, and the names of the mission-
aries who had been selected for various coun-
tries, were presented to the Conference to be
sustained by vote.  Elder Albert Carrington
made some closing remarks.
	Tuesday, October 8, Third day. - Elder Geo.
Q. Cannon presented the Authorities of the
Church in their proper order, all of whom were
unanimously sustained by the Conference.
Then followed a report from Morris & Evans,
in relation to funds collected by them for the
benefit of the Welsh Saints; also a report in
relation to the Manti Temple.  These reports
were accepted by the vote of the Conference;
after which short speeches were made by El-
ders Brigham Young, Franklin D. Richards,
Wilford Woodruff and Joseph Young.
	In the afternoon Elder George Q. Cannon
read the report of President John Taylor, re
lating to the condition of the various Stakes,
Missions, Temples,Sunday and District Schools,
Brigham Young Academy and Deseret Univer-
sity, Relief Societies, Young Men's and Young
Women's Mutual Improvement Associations,
and referred to Zion's Co-operative Mercantile
Institution as being a stepping stone to the Un-
ited Order.  This excellent document was fol-
lowed by the reading of the reports of sub-com-
mittees in the various departments of mercan-
tile and manufacturing interests.
	President John Taylor then reviewed the vari-
ous subjects which had been brought up by the
different speakers, giving much instruction on
revelation, as well as explaining the duties of
the Presidency and the Bishopric, and
stated that all the various quorums and au-
thorities of the Church were under the direc-
tion and dictation of the Presidency and
Twelve Apostles.  He then made some state-
ments in relation to the future intentions of Z.
C. M. I., and the necessity of establishing a
board of trade, that all the interests of the en-
tire community might be fairly and honorably
represented.  At the close of his remarks he
blessed the entire congregation.  Elder George
Q. Cannon then presented the names of other
missionaries to be voted for by the Conference,
and the Conference was then adjourned until
the 6th of April, 1879, at 10 o'clock a.m. The
choir sang "Te Deum."  Benediction by Elder
D. H. Wells.
	This Conference has been one of unusual in-
terest, and was most numerously attended, the
Saints having come from all parts of the Terri-
tory.  The weather has been exceedingly fine
and everything indicated the presence of pros-
perity, peace and harmony.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.—Dr. Romania B.
Pratt will commence her class in Obstetrics,
Puerperal Diseases and Diseases of Women
on Oct. 14th, at 4 p. m. Lectures and recita-
tions held in her office, over Drs. Richards'
drug store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Lec-
ture and Recitation Class twice a week for six
months. Terms, $5 00 per month. Manakin,
Instruments, Plates, etc., for instruction of
class. Office hours 10 a. m. to 6 p. m. For fur-
ther particulars call at office.
	GRAND Sunday School Union; The Sunday
School Union held a mass meeting in the Theatre
in this city, Sunday evening at 7 o'clock p.m.
The Tabernacle Choir and Union Glee Club
were present by invitation. On the platform
was Pres. John Taylor, and several of the
Quorum of the Apostles, Elder George Q. Can-
non, General Superintendent of Sunday Schools
for Utah Ter., Geo. Goddard Assistant Gen.
Supt. for Utah Ter., and Superintendent for
Salt Lake Co., with his assistants W. Willis
and S. L. Evans, also Superintendents for al-
most every Stake in the Territory. The house
was crowded to overflowing, and hundreds of
people went away that could not be accom-
modated with seats or standing room. Elder
Jones of Provo made the opening prayer;
Elder George Q. Cannon made general remarks
upon the the object of Sunday Schools, the con-
dition of them here at the present time, his in-
terest in the children of Zion, and many other
things in connection with this subject. Most
of the Sunday Schools of the various Stakes
were verbally represented by their respective
Superintendents. Choice selections were sung
by the choir and Union Glee Club, which
added greatly to the enjoyment of the evening.
Elders George Goddard and Wm. Willis, sung
"Utah's Best Crop." The sight presented by
the large assembly was charming, and spoke
well for Utah's Sunday School organization.
The meeting was dismissed with prayer by
Elder Joseph F. Smith.

		TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	The delegates to the Territorial Convention
assembled at the City Hall per appointment,
at 6 p. m. Monday, Oct. 7. D. O. Calder, Esq,
Vice President of the People's Territorial Cen-
tral Committee, called the Convention to order
and a temporary organization was effected


with Hon. Orson Hyde Chairman and John
T. Caine, Esq. Secretary.  The first business
of the Convention was the appointing of a 
committee of seven on credentials, who re-
tired to examine credentials; meantime short
speeches were made by Hon. W. H. Hooper,
Judge Snow and E. D. Carpenter, Esq.
   The committee returned and presented the
report to the Chairman, which was read by the 
Secretary; and after amendment by the admis-
sion of some alternates and proxies in place of
absentees, the report was accepted.
   The total delegation consisted of 77 delagates,
among whom were the following  ladies: Han-
nah T-King, Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Sarepta M. Heywood, Emmeline B. Wells,
Priscinda Kimball, and Mary E. Carter.
   On motion of Pres. A. M. Cannon, the Con-
vention agreed to proceed to a permanent or-
ganization, to consist of a President, six Vice-
Presidents, three Secretaries, a Chaplain and
Sergeant-at-arm. On motion of Col. J. R.
Winder, the chair was authorized to appoint a
committee of seven to nominate candidates
for these offices.  During the absence of the
committee, Hon. L. E. Harrington being called
upon responded in a very appropriate speech.
Mr. H. began by saying the most important
item in political economy was to have a good
foundation; then we want a good government,
and in order to have good government we must
have good representatives to make good laws,
plain and simple, so the people, the common-
ality, can understand them and not lose the
meaning in the verbiage.  To accomplish this,
it is necessary to create intelligence, and to do
so we must educate.  The speaker avowed
himself an advocate of education; said no man
was fit for a ruler until he was qualified to be
ruled over; with him the question was not
what the world thought of us, but what God
knew of us.
   Mrs. S. M. Kimball was called upon and 
made a few concise remarks upon the plank
Woman's Suffrage in the platform of govern-
ment, and briefly referred to the 16th Amend-
ment.
   Mrs Hannah T. King was then called, and
spoke of woman's peculiar position before the
public at the present time, felt it was fraught
with a deep significance, and certainly was no
child's play.
   The committee's report on permanent organ-
ization was adopted as a whole.  President,
Hon. W. H. Hooper; Vice Presidents: First
Judicial District, L. E. Harrington and Canute
Petersen; Second Judicial District, William
H. Dame and J. D. T. McCallister; Third Ju-
dicial District, F. D. Richards and M. D. Ham-
mond; Secretaries, John T. Caine, Emmeline
B. Wells and F. M. Lyman; Chaplain, Wil-
ford Woodruff; Sergeant-at-arms, William
Hyde.  Hon. W. H. Hooper assumed the chair,
and declared the Convention fully organized,
and the Chaplain opened with prayer, after
which the Chairman thanked the Convention
for the honor conferred upon him, and made a 
few remarks upon the object of the assembly,
which was to nominate a delegate to represent
Utah in the Forty-seventh Congress.
   The Convention then went into a committee
of the whole, for a nomination of delagate,
with Hon. F. D. Richards in the chair.  A
brief recess was allowed the delegates of each
county to confer with each other, after which
the Convention was again called to order, and
reports of the chairmen of the various delega-
tions were made.  Each county returned a 
solid vote for Hon. George Q. Cannon, and the
chairman on the committee of the whole stated
that the Hon. George Q. Cannon was duly
nominated as Utah's delegate to the Forty-
seventh Congress, to be voted for at the No-
vember election.  This report was unanimously
adopted by the whole Convention, without one
dissenting voice.  Ezra D. Carpenter moved
for resolutions, short and crisp, expressing the
sentiments of the Convention on the subject
of woman's suffrage and in regard to the peo-
ple's delegate, which was not deemed expe-
dient as the hour was late, and further busi-
ness had to be transacted; but Mr. Carpenter
said some very good things in favor of women,
which the ladies present fully appreciated; he
remarked that it was comparatively easy to
speak on woman suffrage here in Utah, where
women had the franchise extended to them,
but it was an entirely different thing in the
world, where a few noble-hearted women were
battling, as it were, alone on this ground.  He
thought the first true step made towards wo-
man's suffrage had been made in this Territory.
This remark brought to our mind the letter we
received from Mrs. Lydia E. Beecher, of Man-
chester, editor of the "Woman's Suffrage Jour-
nal" of that city, and a prominent leader of 
the woman's party in England: "It has been
reserved for the government of your Territory
to set the world an example of real, political
justice, and the women of Utah should hold
their political suffrage as a sacred and divine
trust, held not for their benefit alone, but for
the sake of their sisters."  Hon. W. H. Hooper
made some most excellent remarks upon wo-
man's suffrage; said he had always advocated
it strongly, and related the circumstance of
Congressman Julian introducing the bill en-
franchising Mormon women.  Hon. Orson
Hyde spoke of the speech of Mr. Hopper in
the House of Representatives on the question
of Plural Marriage, and said it had never been
answered. Mrs. Zina D. Young made some
concise remarks upon the position of this
people in the eyes of the world, and prayed
God to bless the honorable body there assem-
bled.
   A committee on information was appointed
by the Chair, to wait upon Hon. George Q.
Cannon and inform him of his nomination.
This committee consisted of Hon. Abraham
Hatch, Hon. Orson Hyde, Hon. Wilford Wood-
ruff.  The Convention then proceeded to re-
elect the People's Territorial Central Commit-
tee, with some changes.  As it now stands it
consists of John Sharp, President, David O.
Calder, Vice-President, Theodore McKean,
Secretary, Mrs. B. W. Smith. Feramorz Little,
John T. Caine, H. W. Brown, John R. Win-
der, A. M. Cannon, George Crismon, A. M.
Musser, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake Co; W.
N. Dusenberry, Utah Co.; Joseph O. Robison,
Millard Co.; John R. Murdock, Beaver Co.;
Edward Dalton, Iron Co.: Isaac Duffin, Kane
Co.; A. B. Whitehead, Washington Co.; I. W.
Pierce, Sevier Co.; W. T. Reid, Sanpete Co.;
Joseph Hatch, Wasatch Co.; W. W. Cluff,
Summit Co.; Samuel Francis, Morgan Co.; W.
R. Smith, Davis Co.; A. Christiansen, Box El-
der Co. F. M. Lyman, Tooele Co,; F. D. Rich-
ards, Weber Co; Moses Thatcher, Cache Co.;
Wm. H. Lee, Rich Co.; Wm. King, Piute Co.
Benediction was then pronounced by the Chap-
lain, and the Convention adjourned sine die.
The spirit of the convention was most excel-
lent throughout, and the business accomplished
was entirely satisfactory.  We feel especially
gratided with the feeling [-] existing here in
regard to woman's voice as well as vote in sub-
jects of civil government, and return our sin-
cere thanks, in behalf of the women of Utah, to
our brethren who have generously extended to
us the privilege of acting in political gather-
ings, and trust that the women of this Terri-
tory will use wisely and discreetly for good, the
power they hold through having the ballot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, Sept. 11, 1878, Anna, daughter of
George and Elizabeth Campkin of Salt Lake
City, and wife of Willis D. Fuller of Harris-
burg, Washington Co., U. T., at which place
she has lived since her marriage in 1867.
	Deceased was born in the village of Wadden,
Cambridgeshire, England, Aug. 12, 1843. Emi-
grated to the valley of Salt Lake with her
parents in 1850, and became a member of the
Church of Latter-day Saints. Her untimely
departure, which was sudden, almost without
warning, a few hours after giving birth to an
infant daughter, cast a gloom over our entire
community. For the six little ones (the eldest
but ten years of age), thus bereft of a mother's
tender love and care, our hearts are especially
moved, and we pray that though absent in
body, the memory of the beloved one gone may
be to them and the father of these dear children
as a sacred link, to lift their hearts upward,
and aid in leading their footsteps through life's
devious paths, until they shall again be reunit-
ed in that land where death cannot enter and
parting is unknown. 

Sin cannot grieve thee more, for on that shore
No surging breakers roar, nor chilling tide o'erflows,
No fears can there oppress, rest dear one, eye blest.

Harrisburg. Sept., 1878.       L. M. H.

	DIED, at Porterville, Morgan Co., Utah, Oct.
3d, 1878, of congestion of the lungs, Elizabeth
Stevenson Norwood, aged 55 years, 5 months,
and 16 days. She was baptized at Far West,
Caldwell Co., Mo., by David Patten. After
one week's sickness she went to sleep without
a struggle, surrounded by many children,
grand-children and relatives, and was followed
to her last resting place by a large concourse of
friends. She lived and died true to the princi-
ples of the Everlasting Gospel.

She's been true to home and friends—
	Each kindly deed will be a star
In the bright wreath of shining gems
	That now will deck her brow afar.
	
Weep not for this departed one,
	She's yielded to the call from God;
'Twas he in mercy planned it so;
	Then meekly bow and kiss the rod.

Free'd from the power of death and pain,
	She'll rise in glory from the tomb,
With God and Christ to rule and reign;
	And in celestial sunshine bloom.

Farmington, Oct. 7, 1878.	L. A. C.

	DIED, at Coveville District, Richmond, Cache
Co., Utah, Sept. 26, 1878, of cholera infantum,
Eliza R., danghter of John and Susan Goss-
lind, born Dec. 7, 1877.
	
This lovely bud, so young and fair,
	Called forth with early doom,
Just came to show how sweet a flower:
	In Paradise would bloom;
		SUSIE PURNELL.

Franklin, Oct. 3, 1878.


SANITARY USE OF FRUITS.—Fruit never
does harm unless it is eaten at improper
times, in improper quantities, or before it
is ripened and fit for the human stomach.
A distinguished physician has said that if
his patients would make a practice of eat-
ing a couple of good oranges before break-
fast, from February to June, his practice
would be gone. The principal evil is that
we do not eat enough of fruit; that we in-
jure its finer qualities with sugar; that we
drown them in cream. We need the medi-
cal action of the pure fruit acids in our sys-
tem, and their cooling, corrective influence.
This is a fact worth remembering at the
proper season.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<f 'tq="" lavish="" rmp.ney;ou="" them,="" had="" bought,="" jblg="" camel’.shalr="" shawls,="" and.="" this="" 'vas="" ,’sufhcient="" evidencq="" that="" all="" -="" others="" ’exthah.an,d="" straightway="" womauwrmado="" lhe,',peg6at;for="" the="" sins="" of="" tbewhoiejnauon.!="" .="" ....="" ydofyou="" wish="" thpubup="" to,peliema="" state-="" merit,="" oven="" though="" erroneous?="" 'that="" is="" t="" easily="" done.="" make="" your="" assertion,="" repeat="" ad=""><why;u feaid="" a="" good,:hbnost="" legislator="" to="" -lis'iiotilong.isiuce,="" oit="" woiild="" not="" do="" forrwcj-="" v.inen:to:vqtej.="" they:="" would="" spon="" ruin="" thejna-="" tion.="" by="" spending="" its'jpoaey.ao="" layishiy;="" they,="" iwsh="" have="" ,="" everything="" ,$p="" gragd.]’="" vf'wh.at,djdjthb-refurnishinglo(’.="" these="" twp="" i="" aegisj&tiyp,="" hulls="" eps’hiwe="" .asked.="" .="" “.forty="" thpusand="" dollars.="" '.he="" cpttains'="" at="" pach="" window="" post="" seven="" hundred,="" doilars.5’="" “hat="" did="" you="" pay="" for="" the="" carpet,="" desist="" ajjd="" jpil-="" toqns="" in="" the.room="" which="" th,="" .cpastit-="" tipnal="" convention="" met?”="" “eighteen="" thou-="" sand="" dollars.1?="" “what="" dp="" ;ppyl="" fqr="" cleaning="" treasury="" building="" washing-="" ten="" city,="" say="" nothing="" of="" thb="" other="" public="" buildings?”="" hfifty="" thousand="" dollarseach="" ye4r.f’="" v="" “npw,="" my="" dea'r="" ’sir,="" do,="" you.="" think="" 9="" wsjh’b'n="" cddld,="" be1="" me(p3iextra.yagant="" thah="" 'ihls?”'="" “i="" do‘="" pot="" bblievo.they="" liave="" spdn'so="" fihuch="" 'inth&e="" instances,”="" he="" ad-="" swered.-1="" ;="" ‘="" '="" it="" then="" were="" thoroughly="" investigale="" this="" matter="" they="" cease="" charging="" wo-="" men-="" with="" lack="" frugalityi="" they'would="" fibd:="" great="" mass="" their="" countrywomen="" exteedingly="" economical,="" saving="" even="" mehnnessr="" we="" fear.="" .go="" into="" houses="" -thbi'mlddle="" and:="" working'classes?und:you="" will="" see="" verified="" furniture,="" tljo="" jchlldten’-s="" clothing,="" thb.-="" dress="" husband="" -:="" and-="" wife="" all="" prove="" there="" has="" .been="" no="" monoy="" lhrowtn="" away.="" foolishlyv="" find,="" theio="" bavo="" been="" made="" aver,="" and="" over="" again="" itho="" mother’?="" bpnnflt,the:danghfer’="" hat.cipng4d="" fq'suit,="" fashion,="" costing="" about,="" one="" fourth="" thp="" price="" newpnes,="" are="" worn="" two,="" thrpe="" four="" years—picture,="" frames,="" ottomans,="" sofa="" pillows,="" afghans,="" chairs,="" that,="" ha.vebeen="" )="" cqshioped="" without="" the,aid="" ap="" upbolsferer,="" ls'tunds="" fables="" mgde="" out="" f="" boxes,="" o="" h'eatly="" covered="" .one="" mignpbp="" excused="" 'for="" detecting="" ttio="" cpramendabje'shamu="" (i.lc'the="" yf’oi&jbi="" womehlstadds.’"'="" ‘'="" ji="" l="" gravel,="" bijj.eaboat="" arid="" railway="" cars,="" 'ahtf="" agaia="" hdye.evidence,="" bf="" xhoj="" fru-="" gality="" woman;.'="" dinper’beli="" ririgs="" bn="" til,b="" ;atodm‘boat—-tvho"="" rpqnds="" the-’call?="" ii="" ywill:jsco="" tiio="" women="" eating="" c01d;="" lunch="" th'dy="" darrltfd="" with'ihem="" fromhoinci="" traviel="" e;="" bymil-whogemofpk'rid="" takes="" godd="" warm="" -bfeskfast.'d'l'bner-arid-supper?'-men.="" ..who="" featsii="" amthe="" car="" hntl-="" saves="" seventy-="" -fi've‘<eentsi="" or="" 'a="" -dollar="" each="" time?!.="" womqn.="" rnwbe’n="" men="" -learbddto="" iappjeciate="" wbriianr;industry="" iaridi="" economyrns="" jvhpn="" j.'they="" lairaed="" .totenumeratq="" amount="" dj.of="" [money-="" saved="" .wives="" ?l?ters,="" tthey="" talk="" about="" tthpiroejpen="" ';ele.vtastes="" anddmhitgi,..="" !?ed-ri;1="" duirdt="" i-cd="" r-d.-="" oq="" co="" c="" t3="" r.="" majprity.="" men.="" knpw,="" cost:="" p="" lady’s="" dress.,..="" that="" costs="" dollars,="" appear="" .them="" quite="" as="" expensive="" iis="" pup="" that.cost="" two="" hundred.="" wpuid="" bp="" impossibl="" e="" them="" dis="" tinguish="" difference="" betyveen="" .a,="" .dollar="" set="" laces="" cheapest="" imitation,="" could="" be="" bought,="" perhaps',="" dollar.'="" bow="" pink="" ribbon="" throat="" ap-="" pear="" more="" extravagant="" outlay="" than="" fifty="" doffa?="" pin.="" by;the="" industry,="" economy="" good="" taste="" america="" our="" homes="" become="" pride="" nation="" wonder="" pf.="" thri="" world.="" (wife="" ot="" r?="" laboririg-man="" dn="" coutrymakes="" possi-="" ble="" forliim="" tct.got="" home="" his="" own.,="" .the="" -mechanic,="" who,="" her="" frugal="" mbits,="" strict="" economy,="" enables="" hus-="" band="" .t="">	THE EXTRAVAGANCES OF WOMEN.

	Hard times, financial difficulties, defalca-
tions,  embezzlements, defrauding and
swindling everywhere!  Why not?  There
is sufficient cause for this state of affairs.
	See the extravagance of the women. That
alone is sufficient to bankrupt the nation.
	Do the women of these days work do
they econoomize? do they deny themselves
luxuries?  Certainly not.  Are they will-
ing to live in the style their mothers and
grandmothers did?  No. Is there anything
less than the most luxurious homes, elegant
attire and costly equipages that will satisfy
their [-]thetic tastes?  Do we not all know
that our women are proud, extravagant,
wasteful - a dead weight upon our business
interests, crippling our energies and ruin-
ing our trade, by foolishly throwing away
our money for gew-gaws - money which is
needed to carry on business successfully?
And the husbands are willing to gratify
their expensive tastes, even though it lead
to bankruptcy and fraud.  Their extrava-
gance is doing even worse than bankrupt-
ing the nation; it is destroying our homes,
leaving our daughters unmarried, a burden
upon the fathers.  A young man cannot
afford to marry; it costs too much to keep
a wife.  The establishment that would suit
his income would not suit his wife's tastes.
She must dress as well and have as elegant
a home as the ladies in whose society she
has moved.
	Who does not hear these and like expres-
sions from all classes of men?  Intelligent,
truthful men believe they are stating facts
when they make these assertions.
	Through the press, from the platform
and occasionally from the pulpit, the people
hear of woman's extravagance.  When the
financial crash of 1857 came, the New York
"Tribune" and other leading papers asserted
that it was the extravagance of the women
that had caused the trouble.  Again and
again was this repeated, until the people
became convinced that such was the fact.
 A few foolish women, whose husbands
were glad to lavish money on them, had
bought high priced camel's hair shawls,
and this was sufficient evidence that all
others were extravagant, and straightway
woman was made the scapegoat for the sins
of the whole nation.
	Do you wish the public to believe a state-
ment, even though erroneous?  That is
easily done.  Make your assertion, repeat
it frequently, induce a few others to do the
same, and how soon it is believed by the
multitude; for "What everybody says must
be true." Who thinks of asking for the
proof?
	But let us look at the other side of this
question of extravagance.  Suppose women,
through the press, from the platform and
in private conversation should assert that
the extravagance of men has brought on
our financial difficulties and caused hard
times - that men, unwilling to economize
as their fathers and grandfathers did, spend
so much on themselves there is nothing
left to make home comfortable, and the
young ladies cannot afford to marry such
spendthrifts.
	Should they assert that men will not deny
themselves luxuries, that they wear costly
suits, carry expensive watches, pay high
prices for rooms in first-class boarding
houses and hotels, hire fast teams, attend
the opera, theatre, and other places of
amusement; that their extravagant habits
are destroying their health, morals and in-
tellect - might not be almost as much
truth in the statement as in those we so,
often hear concerning women spending
money foolishly?
	In every city of our land we see fine
mansions that cost tens, even hundreds of
thousands of dollars.  We see jails, court
houses, city halls, custom houses and other
public buildings which cost from one hun-
dred thousand dollars to one million - all
built by men.  But who charges extrava-
gance?  This is enterprise. 
	At the lowest calculation we find there is
more than five hundred millions of dollars
spent every year for intoxicating drinks,
and one hundred millions worth of tobacco
consumed by the men of the United States.
The money paid out for liquors, tobacco and
a few other luxuries men indulge in, would,
in two or three years, pay the great national
debt.  This could't be called extravagance
- but the expenses men have to incur.
	One objection we have heard urged
against women having a vote in the gov-
ernment is their extravagant habits.
"Why," said a good, honest legislator to
us not long since, "it would not do for wo-
men to vote; they would soon ruin the na-
tion by spending its money so lavishly;
they wish to have everything so grand."
"What did the refurnishing of these two
legislative halls cost?" we asked.  "Forty
thousand dollars.  The curtains at each
window cost seven hundred dollars." "What
did you pay for the carpet, desks and spit-
toons in the room in which the constitu-
tional convention met?" Eighteen thou-
sand dollars."  "What do you pay for
cleaning the treasury building in Washing-
ton City, to say nothing of the other public
buildings?"  "Fifty thousand dollars each
year."  "Now, my dear sir, do you think
women could be more extravagant than
this?"  "I do not believe they would have
spent so much in these instances," he an-
swered.
	If men were to thoroughly investigate
this matter they would cease charging wo-
men with lack of frugality.  They would
find the great mass of their countrywomen
exceedingly economical, saving even to
meanness, we fear.  Go into the houses of
the middle and working classes, and you
will see this verified.  The furniture, the
children's clothing, the dress of husband
and wife all prove there has been no money
thrown away foolishly.  You find these
have been made over and over again.  The
mother's bonnet, the daughter's hat changed
to suit the fashion, costing about one fourth
the price of new ones, are worn two, three
and four years - picture frames, ottomans,
sofa pillows, afghans, chairs that have been
cushioned without the aid of an upholsterer,
stands and tables made out of boxes, so
neatly covered that one might be excused
for not detecting the commendable sham-
all the work of women's hands.
	Travel on steamboat and railway cars,
and again you have evidence of the fru-
gality of woman.  The dinner bell rings on
the steamboat - who responds to the call?
Down both sides of the long tables are men
- two or three ladies at the head of the
first one.  Enter the ladies' cabin and you
will see the women eating  cold lunch
they carried with them from home.  Travel
by rail - who gets off and takes a good warm
breakfast, dinner and supper?  Men.  Who
eats a lunch in the car and saves seventy-
five cents or a dollar each time? Women.
	When men have learned to appreciate
woman's industry and economy - when
they have learned to enumerate the amount
of money saved by their wives and sisters,
they will cease to talk about their expen-
sive tastes and habits.

The majority of men know nothing of
the cost of a lady's dress.  One that costs
ten dollars would appear to them quite as
expensive as one that cost two hundred.  It
would be impossible for them to distinguish
the difference between a hundred dollar set
of laces and the cheapest of imitation, which
could be bought, perhaps, for one dolllar. A
bow of pink ribbon at the throat would ap-
pear to them as a more extravagant outlay
than a fifty dollar pin.
 By the industry, economy and good taste
of the women of America our homes have
become the pride of the nation and the
wonder of the world.  The wife of the
laboring man in this country makes it possi-
ble for him to get a home of his own.  The
wife of the mechanic, who, by her frugal
habits and strict economy, enables her hus-
band to keep his family of five or six on
that which would not board and clothe two,
if she did nothing, deserves a better reward
than being told she earns nothing and is
supported by her husband.  The woman
who cooks, mends, makes clothing, washes,
irons, sweeps and dusts, who does an untold
amount of labor that would cost the hus-
band hundreds of dollars annually, if others
performed the work, should not be insulted
by being told she is wasting her husband's
hard earnings, if she buys a good dress oc-
casionally.  The farmer's wife who milks,
churns and keeps the family in groceries,
and, as is frequently the case, clothes her-
self and daughters with her butter money,
should at least be permitted to call one
dime her own, and not be told she belongs
to the class of non-producers.  The educat-
ed woman who says to her husband I can
earn at paintings, teaching music, or writing
more than will pay a girl for doing all our
work, and I wish to do it should not be
compelled to cook, bake and wash because
the law, which she had no voice in making,
says she owes her husband service; neither
should she, if she adorns her house with
flowers, paintings and statury; be told she
is bankrupting the nation.
					MATILDA HINDMAN.
	Denver, August 22d, 1878.


THE MEETING of the Philadelphia, Citi-
zen's Suffrage Association was held Sept.
18. Resolutions were passed upon Abba
Smith's death, testifying the high respect
in which she was held for her strength of 
character and many virtues. Armenia S.
White, of Concord, wrote a letter to the 
Convention, upon the subject of New Hamp-
shire women voting in school meetings.


THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will hold its Ninth Annual Meeting
in Indianapolis, Ind., at Masonic Hall on
Wednesday and Thursday, Nov. 13 and 14.
There will be sessions each day, morning,
afternoon and evening, commencing Wed-
nesday at 10 a. m. The call for this meet-
ing, published in the "Woman's Journal,"
says, "Let the auxiliary societies, state and
local, at once call meetings to choose their
delegates, who should, if possible, be pres-
ent early, with credentials regularly signed
by the officers of their respective societies."
The call is arranged in parliamentary form,
and specifies minutely how people in dif-
ferent localities may make a proper repre-
sentation. All this agitation and holding
conferences on the subject of suffrage is 
significant of the future, and speaks in
plain terms and almost in trumpet voice,
of the great contest for right that is being
fought all over the enlightened world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	79


[Column 1]	
	SPELLING REFORM.

	The progress of the good work is slow, of
course. But there is progress. What one
generation agitates, the next will no doubt
realize. Fonetic reading is spelling reform,
but it seems to many radical and revolu-
tionary. We hav vague fears about having
to learn a new language. We fear our
children would hav to learn two languages.
We hav learnt one, and now let others learn
it, too. Our whole literature will be dis-
turbed[-] and what not. But a little thought
on, and study of the subject would soon re-
move such misgivings. The Spelling re-
form association appreciates and anticipates
this feeling. Hence it has proposed the
five rules in accordance with which this
letter is written. They ar given here
again:
	A FEW RULES FOR NEW SPELLING.
	1. Omit a from the digraf ea when pro-
nounct as e[-]short, as in hed, helth, etc. 2.
Omit silent e after a short vowel, as in hav,
giv, etc. 3. Write f for ph in such words
as alfabet, fantom, etc. 4. When a word
ends with a doubl letter, omit the last, as
in shal, clif, eg, etc. 5. Change ed final to
t where it has the sound of t, as in lasht,
imprest,etc.  For new type and script letters,
report on new spellings.
	Anybody who thinks fonetic spelling too
much at once, let him take these five rules
and follow them. If five ar too many, take
four, or three, or any one you choose. If
you like none of these five, get Bulletin 2,
in which some twenty changes ar suggested,
and take your choice. Choose you must
and wil,
	YOU HAV CHOSEN.
	What makes you drop u out of honour as
it is always spelt in England, and was here
until 25 years? Why did you drop k from
"musick," as your fathers spelt music?
Who does not, when in a hurry, or from
laziness, write tho', altho', bo't, tho't?  Wel,
drop the apostrophe entirely and you wil
forget that you slighted a useless, unpro-
nounceable "ugh." The New York "Eve-
ning Post," which is nothing if not con-
servativ, and your own estimabl paper, drop
the "me" of programme. Why not? You
can't pronounce it. Any one who knows
Greek; will remember its derivation; any-
body who does not know Greek, will not
care, whether programme or program is
more like the original. Why should we
not now always write "mixt," "drest," as
Adison does in the "Spectator?" T for ed,
when so pronounct, was once the rule and
not the exception, as now. Hence rule 5
is not an innovation, but the re-establish-
ment of an old usage. Rule 3 ought to find
redy favor. The Italians know no ph. Ph
is
	NOT AN ORIGINAL LETTER
of the Roman al[-]abet. It is a substitute
for gr o in words introduced from Greek.
In nine cases out of ten we associate final
e with a long preceding vowel, as in mate,
life, finite. Yet we persist in ad[--]ng this
deceptiv e to infinit, opposit, liv, [-]av, giv.
Rule 1 concerns about seventy words. In
many of them ea is spurious—eg, in pleasure,
thread, tread. Peopl say "hed" looks so
funny. "Gaol," tho strictly historical, can
not maintain itself against "jail." Now
jail is a much more striking innovation
than any yet mentioned, and was, no doubt,
"funny" and "queer." Why not write
"hiccup" instead of "hiccough?" That is
what most peopl do now, they hiccup; very
few take the liberty of "hiccof"-ing given

[Column 2]
them by som authorities on pronunciation.
Drop "ue" from catalogue, harangue, col-
league, etc. Their originals had no "ue."
The only troublsom member of the class is
"tongue," which would collide with tongs.
Spenser spelt tongue "tong," however.
Drop "ugh" and the apostrophe of three
words, tho, altho, thoro, if you like. Per-
haps you would prefer to drop the t of the
trigraf[-]t[-]h. I assure you ther is no differ-
ence between ch and tch, tho you may
imagin ther is; tch is a blunder. This
leads me to
	ANOTHER CLASS OF SPELLING[-]
viz., such as we look upon as historical and
yet which hav not a shadow of historical
foundation. We are so apt to apply Pope's
fals maxim,
	"Whatever is, is right."
	Nowher is it more deceptive than in the
matter of spelling. I will mention only a
few examples of such unhistorical, absurd
spellings, as a in parliament; u in guild,
build, buy; p in receipt; u in busy; busi-
ness; o in woman; b in limb, numb, thumb
(it is superfluous, tho historical, in tomb,
womb, lamb); g in foreign, sovereign,
deign (?). Anybody who has the purity of
his mother tongue at heart—and who has
not, at least who does not pretend to hav?
—ought to be willing to remove such in-
congruities as have and behave, such ab-
surdities as busy, bough, tow, trough. He
ought to belong to this third class of re-
formers, who think they hav good reasons
for opposing fonetic spelling. No one has a
singl good reason for opposing correct his-
torical spelling, and in so far, spelling re-
form.—Utica Herald.


WANTED.
 We want that ingredient in religion that
shortens the steps, tunes the voice to melo-
dy, fills the eye with sunshine, and checks
the impatient exclamation and the harsh
rebuke.  A religion that is polite, deferential
to superiors, and courteous to inferiors, and
considerate to friends; a religion of heart,
that goes into the family, but rises superior
to it, and keeps the husband from getting
cross when dinner is late, keeps the wife
from fretting when the husband tracks the
newly-washed floor with his muddy boots,
keeps the mother patient when the baby is
cross, and amuses the children as well as
instructs them, cares for the domestics as
well as promptly paying them, projects the
"honeymoon" into the "harvestmoon," and
the happy home like the eastern fig tree,
bearing in its beauty at once the beauty of
the tender blossom and the glory of the
ripened fruit.  We want more religion that
interposes between the ruts, the gulleys,
and the rocks of the highways of life and
the sensitive souls that are obliged to travel
over them.--Woman's World.


HEALTH, beauty, vigor, riches and all
the other things called good, operate equally
as evils to the vicious and unjust, as they
do as benefits to the just.
DYING BY WHOLESALE.--In Europe and
America, during the past month, fully 10,000
people are known to have perished by the 
sword, by flood, by fever, and by railway,
coal mine and steamboat disasters.  Nearly
4,000 have died of fever in the South, 600
in the Thames steamship collision, 400 by
the great flood at Miskolcz, Hungary, 280
by the coal mine explosion in South Wales,
100 by several railway accidents in Great
Britain, 100 by lake, railway, and other


casualities in this country, and some 4,000
by engagements between Austrians, Bos-
nians, Tures, and Albanians. - Utica Herald.
	MRS. MARY E. Allen announced that she
will open a gymnasium for women at No.
84 Essex St., Boston, Oct. 22.
	The "Woman's Journal," after ably com-
menting on the subject, closes thus: "The
undersigned, appreciating the need of
larger opportunities for physical culture,
have learned with much pleasure of Miss
Allen's proposal to establish a Gymnasium
for ladies and children in Boston, and trust
that it will receive the cordial recognition
and support which it deserves;" signed by
the names of some of the most eminent
men, and women of that city.
	This is a subject upon which we have re-
flected considerably that many of our girls
do not have the proper physical develop-
ment and play of muscles necessary to per-
fect womanhood is certain.  Work is de-
velopment, but there are so many kinds of
work that tend to an unequal, instead of
general, development.  Miss Ida Ione Cook
once opened exercises of this kind in the
City Hall for young ladies, but was not suf-
ficiently sustained to warrant her continu-
ing the gymnasium.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Diptheria.—Take two ounces each of
olive oil and coal oil; mix well by shaking. Ad-
minister, internally, every hour, a quantity accord-
ing to the age of the patient. Dose for a child
five years old half a teaspoonful of the mixture;
half that age, half the quantity, and so on.
	Twenty minutes afterwards, give the same quan-
tity of dry sulphur. Twenty minutes after that
the same quantity of dry cream of tartar.
	This treatment is to be repeated for three hours,
when great improvement is generally perceived, in
which case the time between the doses is to bə
gradually increased, until a cure is effected. A
little common sense and appreciation of the differ-
ence of constitution, &c., in various cases will
suggest modifications of the treatment.—Deseret
News.
	Bathing Children.—Some mothers, writes a
physician, think when their children get beyond
two or three years of age the frequent entire bath
can be dispensed with. If some of the main
facts of physiology were well known and under-
stood, every one would perceive that cleanliness
of the skin is one of the conditions of good health.
It happens when bathing is disregarded that the
lungs, kidneys or bowels have more than their ap-
portionment of work. If these are strong and
healthy, they may bear the tax with little appa-
rent injury, but, in most cases, a lowering of the
vitality and tone of the system ensues. Large
bath tubs are pleasant and convenient, but not in-
dispensable to the proper cleansing of the skin.
A speedy sponging of the body in pure water,
followed by friction in pure air, is all that is nec-
essary.
	When disinclined to use water, I find thorough
application of the flesh brush to the whole person
an admirable substitute, especially on retiring; it
relieves nervousness, equalizes the circulation and
induces quiet sleep[-] Mothers, above all, should
see that their children are well bathed; If their
skins are kept active and healthy there will not be
half the danger from fever, cold and eruptive dis-
eases. If your little one is cross or troublesome,
and finds no occupation that pleases him, try the
effect of a bath; sometimes it is magical, and, if
tried, he will go to sleep and awaken bright; cheer[-]
ful and happy. Do not, though, as I have seen
some parents do, plunge a child into water, when
he screams and shrinks from it, thinking they are
doing a good deed. Nature must be the guide; if
your child has a nervous constitution, a shock of
this kind is only exhausting and injurious.<jir,tjjyr portionment="" of="" work;="" ;="" -jf";theso="" arp="" string="" .="" audio)="" healthy,jheyjnay="" bear="" the="" tax="" with="" little="" appa-="" rent="" injury,="" bu="" ip="" 'most="" 'ras,dowcnng"of="" dispensable="" ‘to="" ’="" p’ropjer="" cfeanstng="" tbe'skin.="" a="" speedy="" spopging="" teo'fodytu="" pure="" water,="" followed="" by.friction="" in.="" pure.air'="" is'all="" 'ihatji'3="" nec'i,="" essary.-="" [="" "when="" disinclined,="" to="" .use="" i="" fnd-thorough'juu="" applicatiou="" bp="" the-flesh="" brush="" tp="" the;="" whole="" permnff="" an="" admirable="" substitute,="" especially="" on="" retiring;,="" it="" relieves,="" neevouinfess?,="" equalizes.="" th‘d="" circulaiionta'dk="" induccsr.quieb="" sleep:="" mothers;="" above="" all="" should="" see="" that="" their="" children="" are="" well="" bathedy="" if="" skins="" kept="" activc="" and="" healthy="" there="" will="" not="" be="" halftbe="" dangeffrom="" fey<2r,cpld.="" jiqcfejuptivie="" dis-oh="" eases.="" your="" one="" is-cros3="" or="" troublesome,="" finds="" no="" occupation="" ,="" pleases="" ‘kim',="" try="" w="" effect="" a-bathj="" sometimes="" itis="" magical,="" and,="" tried,="" he="" wijhgo="" sleep="" awaken="" bright;="" cheer,'="" ful="" anafhappy.="" do="" not.="" 'thougb,="" a3="" ihaye="" seyn,="" 7="" some'="" parents="" do,="" plunge="" child="" into="" wben-="" screams="" shrinks="" from="" it,="" .tbinking2they="" ”="" doing;ftooddepd.="" nature="" must="" thoguido'="" 1="" vour="" ckldhas="" nervous="" constituhob="" shock;="" 'of:="" thikind'isbnly’="" exhausting="" andlnjhnods.="" ,j:-="" “<="" div="">


WE would say to our subscribers through-
out the country, as there has been some
misunderstanding in regard to postage,
that the postage for one year is ten cents to
all parts of the Territory and United States,
to Europe, twenty-four cents,this may seem
very little to speak about to one person, but.
makes a vast difference in the whole.
 THE Lord has blessed this people with
one of the most abundant harvests that ever
crowned the labors of the farmer, and we
trust our sisters will not be unmindful of
the mission given them  store up grain
against a day of need.  It is now just two
years since this mission was given to the
sisters, and particulars published for their
benefit in the columns of the Exponent.
President Young had great faith in the
women of Zion and, with the organizations
as they now now exist it is a comparatively
easy matter to gather in means.  The sis-
ters have been liberal in their donations,
and quite a large amount has been stored in
different parts of the Territory, but this is
a work that is not done in a year or two, but
is a continous labor, and certainly the sisters
should not feel it a burden, but continue in
well doing, knowing that “the race is not
to the swift,” but to those who endure to
the end.  There are some granaries already
built, and others begun, and we trust that
the sisters will be earnest in this good cause,
for such it is; what could be greater or
grander than to disburse food to the desti-
tute in a time of need?  If the sisters are
striving for usefulness, and wanting a high
sphere to labor in, here it is.  Let there be
some Joseph’s in Utah even it they are
women: it will matter but little when men
are hungry if even a woman dispenses
charity to them.  Sisters let us be wise in
this respect, and lay up of the abundance
God has given us here in these valleys, and
manifest to Him and to all the world our
liberality in the things which we have been
commanded to do.  Never mind what those
say who are not co-workers with us, but
prove our faith in the prophecies of the an-
cient and modern prophets, by storing up
grain for ourselves and our friends, and
those who will come from afar to ask of us,
when the land is laid desolate with the ter-
rible scourges that await it.  Let all the
Relief Societies throughout the length and
breadth of the Territory see what can be
done in this matter, and send us word pre-
vious to the Annual Grain Meeting which
will be held in this city Nov. 16, in the in-
terest of the Grain Question.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878.

	An Immense Stock of those cheap and durab[-]e white
and red, twilled and p[-]ain FLANNELS,
[---] received from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jean[-], Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Broom[-],
Tinware, Shoes Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
	OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
		MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
	Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
		Saleroom to
	No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
		GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
			Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THEL AMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
		MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see [--]r friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone. and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
[-]econd South Streets.
Special attenti[-]n given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of 
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETHSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Milllinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Pushes[-] Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed. 

[Column 3]
ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S

	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.       SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 1, 1878.       No. 11.


ONLY A PORTRAIT.

	'Tis only a portrait, and yet the sweet face
	Seems gifted with magical powers;
	How fondly I dream, as its features I trace,
	Of the past and its garden of flowers.

	As I gaze in those blue eyes, so loving and kind,
	That ever look smiling on me,
	The stream of reflection swift carries my mind
	To the shore of eternity's sea

	And the veil of long absence is rended in twain,
	Disclosing her being so fair,
	Whose image, on earth, we may search for in vain,
	Yet in heaven, be sure she is there.

	There were many more beautiful, fairer than she,
	But seek where you would, you'd ne'er find,
	A maiden of loveliness greater, to me,
	For hers was the beauty of mind.

	The dear, tender heart that would comfort and bless,
	Forgetting its own griefs the while;
	The face that could soften another's distress.
	And cover its own with a smile.

	In joy, hers the spirit of goodness and love;
	In sorrow, of patience and rest;
	The favored of God and His angels above,
	Was Emma - the dearest and best.
AUGUST, 1878.              O.F.W.


THE OBJECT OF LIFE.

	Oft I pause and ask myself the question,
What is the object of life?  There certainly
must be a grand and holy purpose at the
foundation of our creation, else why this
innate louging and thirst for knowledge -
this perpetual desire for improvement and
advancement. We meet often, and our
souls feast together in the good things of
the Lord.  Our religion is to us a constant
source of wealth, still we never become sa-
tiated, we are ever ready and anxious to
partake of a spiritual feast.  I have reflect-
ed upon this, and feel that our Heavenly
Father has implanted these feelings and
desires in our hearts, that this earthly pro-
bation may not be in vain.  And the object
of this life must be to test us, to try us in
all things, and to make us more "perfect,
even as our Father in Heaven is perfect."
We may feel that we are far from this, but
it is by overcoming the small things, and
being able to bear the little trials and per-
plexities of life patiently and meekly,
striving to profit by our daily experiences,
that we are enabled to become more perfect,
overcoming our weaknesses and not allow-
ing them to overcome us.  We must become
perfect, even as our Father in Heaven is
perfect."  This is a great undertaking for
us all; but let us date from this time a no-
bler life, and try to make each day better
than the last, and we will find the task, will
gradually become lighter and more easy of
accomplishment.
	In order to make the most rapid progress,
in any work, we must fully reailze and sense
the magnitude of the undertaking.  To be-
come perfect requires constant determina-
tion and continued labor.  We must think
no evil, and then we will be sure to act none.
Our bodies should be kept pure, cleanly and
sacred, that they may be fit temples for the
indwelling of the Holy Spirit.  Though
our clothing may not be of the finest and
most expensive quality, we can have it
cleanly and so fashioned as to give grace
and freedom to our movements, and con-
duce to our health and comfort.  It is just
as much our duty to guard and preserve
our bodies as our spirits; for there are laws
that govern our physical as well as our
spiritual natures, and just so sure as we
break one of these laws we must pay the
penalty.
	We should seek to improve in every
sense of the word.  We imagine angelic
beings as all that is pure, good, graceful,
refined and beautiful; then let us strive to
be like unto them, and improve in our in-
tercourse and deportment by being affable
and obliging.  What a small thing is a word,
but when spoken kindly how much pleasure
and happiness it gives to the oft world-weary
heart.  Let us from this time endeavor to im-
part joy and gladness to the hearts of others,
and our own hearts will be much lighter
and happier; and will we not be thus drift-
ing nearer that object of life, Perfection?
Let us cease our slang phrases and uncouth
sayings, and use only that language to which
the best cultivated and purest beings would
love to listen, and speak in those tones and
that spirit that would cause the angels to
linger near.  And our actions - how strictly
we should guard them.  Unkind thoughts
may unbidden come, harsh words may be
impulsively uttered, but an unwise act we
can never recall.  Then let us watch our-
selves constantly and prayerfully, asking
the aid of Father, who is ever merciful,
and He will bless and assist us in our ear-
nest efforts to become "perfect, even as He
is perfect."
									E. R. S.
S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1878.


IS CO-OPERATION THE NEW PRINCI-
		PLE OF INDUSTRY?

To what chaos is industry tending?  Its
insurgency increases.  Will its purturba-
tions ever end?  From being aggressive
will trade-unions become destructive forces?
Will the proletariat finally take the field,
and the capitalist have to fight for his life?
 Excited empty-handed labor seems on fire,
and the political economist, albeit[--] damp-
ing creature, seems powerless to extin-
guish it.  Doctrinal streams of "supply
and demand" poured upon it act but as
petroleum upon flame.  Organized capital
grinds industry as in the mystic mill of the
gods–very small.  The isolated laborer is
frightened, and flees to combination for
safety.  No protest that capital is [-]is friend
reassures him.  Terror has made him deaf,
and experience unbelieving.  Can the 
struggle of ages, made deadlier now by in-
creasing intelligence, end save but by the 
despotism of the knife?  Every  man asks
these questions, to which there is but one
answer. A new principle has entered in-
dustry, which has slowly awakened hope,
and will surely bring deliverince. Its 
name is co-operation.
   Wookmen will buy capital at its price in
the market, which will be ruled by the
risks of the enterprise in which they em-
ploy it.  That they propose to pay, whether
at the laborer's rate or at the Jenny Lind
rate.  When capital came into this field of
industry, men were necessitous and igno-
rant of its capacity for estimating its own
services.  Capitalists, therefore, hired labor,
paid it its ordinary price, and took all prof-
its.  Co-operative labor proposes to reverse
this process.  Its plan is to buy capital, pay
its full value, and itself take all profit. It
is more reasonable and better for society
and progress that men should own capital
than that capital should own men.  Capital
is the servant, men are the masters and
when capital is in its proper place there
will be no more discontent, no more con-
flicts of industry.  In competition capital
buys labor.  In co-operation labor buys
capital; the whole distinction of principle
lies there.  Capital is used in co-operation
and honestly paid for, but the capitalist is
excluded.  Capital is a commodity, not a 
person.  The worker is the sole person con-
cerned in co-operation.  The capitalist sells
his commodity to the workers.  The capi-
talist has no position but that of a lender,
no claim save for the interests for which he
bargains, and being paid that, he should
not be permitted to reappear as a partici-
pant in the profits of labor.  The capitalist
being paid his proper interest, he has no
more claim to any further payment than a
landlord has to a second rent, or a coal mer-
chant to a double discharge of his bill.
   True self-interest is in justice, which
gives all its force to the right and
against the wrong act or the wrong judg-
ment of others, lest self, losing force, sink
under the patronage of charity.  Industrial
interest consists in the command of means
of moderate competence by equitable asso-
ciation for the conduct of labor and division
of profits, without which labor is a ceaseless
strife, bringing the chance of splendor to
the few and certain precarlousness to the 
many–that danger and despair of every
state which equity in industry alone can
terminate.  This new principle of equity
has risen without glamour, it has grown
without friends, it has spread without con-
spiracy, and acquired power without injus-
tice. Stronger than the sword, and loftier
than charity, co operation gives to labor an
abiding grasp of its fruits, and supersedes
benevolence by rendering the industries
independent of it.  It seeks that organiza-
tion of labor and intelligence in which it
shall be impossible for the industrious to be
depraved, or mean, or poor, except by their
own choice or their own act, which can
bring no scandal and no remorse to society,
which provides that neither baseness nor
misery shall be any longer the necessity of
their condition.  All this cannot come soon,
but it will come surely as thought and
courage, patience and perseverance, shall
put in force the new principle of industry.
—G.J. Holyoke in the Nineteenth Century.


GOOD words do more than hard speeches;
as the sunbeams without any noise will
make the traveler take off his coat, which
all the blustering winds could not do, but
only make him bind it closer to him.
	"MY-dear," said a wife to her husband,
"I really think it is time we had a green-
house." "Well, my love, paint it any color
you please—red, white or green will suit
me," responded the husband.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

			MILLVILLE, May 2d, 1878.

	Meeting called for the re-organization of
the Relief Society. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Minutes of the former
meeting and the Quarterly report were
read. Bishop Pitkin spoke of the condi-
tion of the Society, of the first organization,
&c.; wanted to see the Society sustained by
the sisters of the ward; encouraged the
sisters to do right. Brothers King and
Laird made a few remarks on the changes
made since the first organization, and gave
some good instruction. Sarah A. Pitkin
spoke of her resignation, after which the
following nominations were made and
unanimously sustained:

	Susannah Hovey, President,
	Mariah Pitkin,	} Counselors,
	Mary Yates,		}
	Annie Anderson, Assistant Secretary.
	Sarah A. Pitkin, Doctress.

	The above named Sisters were then or-
dained and set apart by Bishop Pitkin and
Counselors.
	Several of the sisters bore their testimo-
ny to the truth of the Gospel, &c. A vote
of thanks was returned to Sarah A. Pitkin,
the former President. Benediction by
George O. Pitkin.
			L. HOVEY, President,
			Matilda Pitkin, Secretary.

		PANACCA, NEVADA, Oct. 6, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We, the sisters of Panacca Relief Society,
would like to represent ourselves in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We were re-organ-
ized June 22d, 1877, by President McCal-
lister and Counselors, when the following
named sisters were elected:

	Pamela E. Thompson, President,
	Christiana Syphus,	} Counselors.
	Ann Burgess,		}
	Mary A. Syphus, Secretary,
	Elizabeth Wadsworth, Treasurer.

	There are fifty-one members enrolled; we
hold meetings semi-monthly, and a spirit
of union seems to prevail. The sisters are
willing to do all in their power for the ad-
vancement of the work in which we are
engaged. We have a sewing machine, and
also own a half share in the book entitled
"The Women of Mormondom." We own
a town lot here, and have the adobies ready
for building a house, which the brethren
intend to build for us this winter. The
most of the members here take the EXPO-
NENT, and we feel greatly benefitted by the
valuable instruction contained therein.
Wishing you success, we remain, &c.,
		PAMELA E. THOMPSON, President,
		MARY A. SYPHUS, Secretary.

			WELLSVILLE, Aug. 20th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We send you the Financial Report of our
Tenth Anniversary, ending July 11th, 1878:
Total Receipts..................................$151 63
Disbursements................................    29 64
Logan Temple..................................    50 17
Relief House.....................................    46 16
The needy.........................................    37 88
								———
		Total Disbursements.......   163 85
Articles in the Treasury...................   100 42
46 bushels of wheat stored.

	We had a good time at our annual meet-

[Column 2]
ing, and also enjoyed ourselves in a dance
in the evening; all was satisfactory.
	We were much pleased with a visit we
had, on the 8th inst., with sisters E. R.
Snow and Elizabeth Davis. We held meet-
ing in the afternoon and enjoyed ourselves
very much. Sister E. Davis spoke on Ce-
lestial Marriage, and Sister E. R. Snow ad-
dressed us on the same subject in a very
laudable manner. Spoke of organizing a
Primary Improvement Association, which
we fully endorsed. Several of the brethren
were present, and bore their testimony to
the truth of her remarks. The young gen-
tlemen and ladies met in the evening, and
we had a time of rejoicing. We pray the
Lord to bless and prosper all the interests
of Zion.
			ELLEN WHITON, Pres't.
			LUCY E. HASLAM, Sec'y.

			TOOELE CITY, Sept. 12, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We wish to mingle our voice with the
rest, and let you know how we are getting
along as a Young Ladies' Association in
Tooele. We meet twice a month on week
days, and every Sunday evening alternately
with the Young Men's Association. Our
officers are very energetic in their endeav-
ors to carry out the instructions of the
Presidency. We have been several days
gleaning this season, and are fully alive to
the necessity of preparing for the troubles
that have already commenced. We feel
very thankful that we are here safe from
the pestilence and famine that is spreading
upon this continent. We can see the pro-
phecies are being fulfilled very fast, and we
desire to be wide awake, that we may ac-
complish some good in our generation. We
are favored with officers who are constantly
on the alert. We read the EXPONENT with
great interest.
		MRS. ELIZABETH TATE, Pres't.
		EMILY A. WARBURTON, Sec'y.

				HYRUM, Aug. 20th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I send you the yearly report of our Re-
lief Society, ending Aug. 6th, 1878:

Receipts on hand Aug. 6, 1878.........$243 80
	Report of Receipts.
Donations to Logan Temple.............. 163 80
To Foreign Mission..............................   30 97
Monthly donations and means from
	parties...........................................   89 30
Gain on shares in Co-op Store...........   10 00
Gain on Relief Store.............................   44 00
Quilts made..........................................  112 50
								   ———
		Total					   450 50
	Disbursements.
To Logan Temple..................................  137 95
Paid on R. S. house and lot..................  300 00
To Foreign Mission................................    30 97
Given to the poor and aged.................    50 00
To Sundry expenses..............................    17 13
								     ———
		Total					     536 06
	On hand to date,
Goods in R. S. Store				       51 85
Shares in Hyrum Co-op..........................   40 00
Shares in Logan Factory.........................   25 00
Property, including house furniture,
	books, &c.......................................... 324 00
								      ———
	Total						      440 85

We have on hand 170 bushels of wheat,
and are making calculations to gather all
we can this Fall; as we have a bountiful har-

[Column 3]
vest this season; we feel to persevere and
lay up while it is plenty.
	We were honored with a visit from our
beloved Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis
on the 9th inst., and had two very interest-
ing meetings. The Spirit of God was
poured out upon them, and we had a time
of rejoicing in listening to their kind and
good counsel. Our sisters appreciate the
visits of Sister Snow and the excellent in-
structions we receive from her, and pray
that she may live long and do all the good
her heart desires. We would be pleased if
she and our other good sisters could visit
us very often. Sister Snow exhorted us to
sustain home industry, and to do all in our
power to start the silk business. Congratu-
lated us on our success in the millinery;
asked all to rise to their feet who wore
homemade hats, and almost every one
arose. She blest them for their willingness
to obey counsel, and spoke many cheering
words to the sisters, which will be long re-
membered. Our President, Sister Liljen-
quist, is alive to her duties and the inter-
ests of the kingdom of God, as are also all
of the officers of our Society, and the mem-
bers generally feel to respond to every call.
	Wishing continued success to the EXPO-
NENT, I subscribe myself your sister in the
Gospel,
			N. M. NEILSEN, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON
			FERENCE

		DAVIS COUNTY STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies a[-]d Y. L. M. I. A's of Davis Stake
was held at Farmington, Oct. 17, 1878,
commencing at 10 a. m.; Pres. Sarah I
Holmes presiding. There were present on
the stand Pres. M. I. Horne and her Coun-
selors, E. S. Taylor and S. M. Heywood, of 
the Salt Lake Stake, Pres. S. I. Holmes and
Counselors, Mary S. and Nancy A. Clark, of
the Davis Co. Stake.
	After singing and prayer, the minutes of
the preceding meeting and also the reports
of the various Societies in the County were
read by Miss M. E. Richards, Secretary.
The reports show—
Receipts since the organization	$10200 00
Disbursements				8957 00
On hand in the Treasury			1243 00
Wheat stored				57 bu., 21 lbs
	Sisters Horne, Taylor and Heywood occu-
pied the remainder of the forenoon, ex-
horting the sisters to be diligent in the
performance of their duties; home indus-
try, storing grain, unity and punctuality
were the chief subjects, upon which they
spoke with considerable earnestness.
	The afternoon meeting was presided over
by Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, President of the
Young Ladies' Associations of the Stake.
	Secretary Miss Wealthy Richards read
the reports of three Associations, showing
that they are awake to their duties.
	Sisters Horne, Taylor, Heywood, Holmes
and Clark gave some excellent instructions
and encouraged the young ladies to con-
tinue in well doing, and to use their influ-
ence to bring about a reformation in the
young men.
	Mrs. Aurelia Rogers gave a verbal report
of the Primary Association of Farmington,
of which she is President. Manifested a
great interest in the mission assigned her.
A good spirit prevailed, and prompted
each speaker. Meeting adjourned until the
16th of January, 1879.
		MINERVA E. RICHARDS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LET BYGONES BE BYGONES.

Let bygones be bygones; if bygones were clouded
	By aught that occasioned a pang of regret,
Oh, let them in darkest oblivion be shrouded;
	'Tis wise and 'tis kind to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones, and good be extracted
	From ill over which it is folly to fret;
The wisest of mortals have foolishly acted—
	The kindest are those who forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; oh, cherish no longer
	The thought that the sun of affection has set;
Eclipsed for a moment, its rays will be stronger,
	If you, like a Christian, forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; your heart will be lighter,
	When kindness of yours with reception has met;
The flame of your love will be purer and brighter
	If, Godlike, you strive to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; oh, purge out the leaven
	Of malice, and try an example to set,
To others, who, craving the mercy of heaven,
	Are sadly too slow to forgive and forget.

Let bygones be bygones; remember how deeply
	To heaven's forbearance we all are in debt;
They value God's infinite goodness too cheaply
	Who heed not the precept, "Forgive and forget."
						—Chambers' Journal.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

		CONTINUED.
	This feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who
would come were invited, and entertained
as courteously and generously as if they
had been able to extend hospitality instead
of receiving it. The Prophet Joseph and
his two Counselors being present each day,
talking, blessing, and comforting the poor,
by words of encouragement and their most
welcome presence; some are now living
who were present at that Feast, and many
have passed behind the vail. The Prophet
Joseph often referred to this particular Feast,
during his lifetime, and testified of the
great blessing he felt in associating with
the meek and humble ones whom the Lord
has said "He delights to own and bless."
He often said to me that it was preferable
and far superior to the elegant and select
parties he afterwards attended, and afford-
ed him much more genuine satisfaction;
and to me it was "a feast of fat things in-
deed; a season of rejoicing never to be for-
gotten. The Temple in Kirtland being
built and dedicated, the word of the Lord
to the Saints was to build up Missouri, and 
the Saints repaired thither as fast as cir-
cumstances would permit.
	Great manifestations of power were wit-
nessed in the Kirtland Temple; it used
oftentimes to seem as though it was illumi-
nated, and many and powerful were the
manifestations to those who were humble
and participated in the ordinances bestowed
upon the faithful Saints in that house. The
first partriarchal blessing meeting over
which Joseph Smith, Sen., presided was
one of the most striking and noticeable fea-
tures of that particular period of time. In
this meeting I received the gift of singing
inspirationally, and the first Song of Zion
ever given in the pure language was sung
by me then, and interpreted by Parley P.
Pratt, and written down; of which I have
preserved the original copy. It describes
the manner in which the ancient patriarchs
blessed their families, and gives some ac-
count of "Adam ondi Ahman."

In ancient days there lived a man;
Amidst a pleasant garden,
Where lovely flowers immortal bloom'd,
And shed around a rich perfume;
Behold, his name was Adam.

One of the nobles of the Earth,
Had mighty power in blessing;

[Column 2]
Received the Priesthood, and went forth
And blessed his seed, and gave the earth
Blessings for their possession.

He sealed them for eternal life,
And all their generations,
Who should obey the Gospel plan,
Down to the latest years of man—
A multitude of nations.

Isaac and Jacob, they in turn
Had power to bless their children;
Hence, Jacob by his faith did learn,
And gave directions for his bones
To be conveyed to Canaan.

By the same spirit, Joseph gave
A great and mighty blessing
To Ephraim, and Manasseh too,
Whereby their seed were carried through
Long travels, though distressing.

By that same faith they built a ship,
And crossed the mighty ocean.
Obtain'd the choicest land of Earth,
Foretold the great Messiah's birth,
And all the great commotion,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Holy Priesthood long remain'd
In all its power and glory,
Until the Priests of God were slain,
Their records hid from wicked men
Within the hill Cumorah.

Their remnants sank in sorrow down,
Became a loathsome people,
To misery and sorrow doom'd,
Their pleasant fields o'erspread with gloom,
Ruled by a Gentile nation.

But now the Priesthood is restored,
And we partake its blessings;
Our parents and our children dear
With Joseph's remnants have a share
To latest generations.

As Adam blest his family
In Adam ondi Ahman,
So shall our aged father bless
His seed who dwell in righteousness
Upon the land of Zion.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Prophet Joseph promised me that I 
should never lose this gift if I would be
wise in using it; and his words have been
verified.
	My husband's partner in business had
been sent up to Jackson Co., Missouri, and
had opened a branch business there; and
according to the best of my recollection
about 1837, the Prophet Joseph called up-
on my husband to go up to Far West to pre-
side; we set about making preparations for
removal. My friends, who knew what deli-
cate health I had, and how unaccustomed I
was to any hardships, inconvenience, or
privation, looked upon it as almost certain
death for me to go into the wilderness, or
what seemed little better than a desert, or
wiiderness among Indians. My friends
tried to prevail on me to stay until my
husband should go and prepare a comfort-
able place for me and my children; but I 
had unbounded faith in the promises of Jo-
seph, that I should be able to go in safety,
and my trust in God was firm and unshrink-
ing. I bade adieu to my beloved home,
where I had anticipated spending all my
life, and where everything had been ar-
ranged according to my own ideas of taste
and beauty; to my dear friends, and my
kind and ever true Aunt Sarah, who had
been a mother indeed to me and mine. I
felt a tender yearning towards her, and 
had desired with all my heart to bring her
into the faith of the Everlasting Gospel,
but had never been even successful enough
to get her to believe in the least; she looked
upon me as one bereft of my senses; this 
was the hardest trial to me of all—to leave
one so true and faithful and devoted as she
had ever proved herself to me and mine,
alone, without children to comfort her; but
I believed I was serving my Heavenly Fa-
ther and the best interests of all my friends
by so doing. My children were so imbued
with the spirit of the Gospel, that although

[Column 3]
they were disappointed in their hopes and 
expectations in regard to obtaining a supe-
rior education such as we had sought to
stimulate them to obtain, previous to our
embracing the latter-day work; yet they
accepted this change in their worldly cir-
cumstances without a murmur. They were
devotedly attached to Joseph, and were
never weary of praying for him; and their
faith seemed perfect. In their innocence
and trust they believed truly the Lord
would hear and answer them, and they
firmly trusted in all the promises and bless-
ings pronounced upon them. With the 
earnest confidence and assurance of these
little children, I felt I could meet all oppo-
sition, and trusting in my Heavenly Father
come off victorious.
		To be continued.


IMPROPER TREATMENT OF IN-
			FANTS.

	A gentleman of much experience and
sound judgment remarks, that many a little
grave is filled from no other cause than the
imprudent and unreasonable manner in
which a tender but ignorant mother treats
her child.
	She goes with it to the table, where all
kinds of food are prepared; baby coos and
catches at her knife, or spoon, with its tiny
fingers, and if the mother herself does not
think of it, some one else imagines that
baby wants a taste of pie, or pudding, or
something else, and mother, or auntie
having no realizing sense of how small a
particle of rich food may distress the little
stomach not accustomed to it, keeps giving
it a little of first one dainty article and then
another, till presently baby begins to fret,
and then it wants a spoonful of tea or coffee
and gets it; and then cries and worries,
and mama "can't tell what ails it!" Then
it must have some camphor or panacea, and
be jolted and trotted and shaken. until its
flesh is so sore it cannot be moved or
touched without experiencing pain; so it
screams and moans until, doubtless, it be-
comes an immaculate martyr, victimized
by medicines for cold, consumption, lung
fever, &c., while the sole cause of its suf-
fering and death might justly be attributed
to its swallowing a very small amount of
food, too rich or too strenuous for the little
unprepared stomach to digest. And yet
the poor, stricken mother feels that she has
done all in her power to save the life of her
precious darling, when, she is at last com-
pelled to lay it away out of sight. Study
human nature, mothers; a proper under-
standing of it is invaluable.
						LULA.


Extract from a letter of one of the Di-
rectors of the Eastern Counties railway,
England, to Mrs. Hannah T. King:
	"You speak of your new locomotive of
thirty-two tons; ours now are more than
double that! In the early times, an engine
weighing twenty tons was considered ab-
surd, and impossible to run! George Steph-
enson, the inventor, was laughed at, before
a committee of the House of Commons, for
daring to hint that a locomotive might be
worked at fifteen miles an hour; now, it is
worked on the lines at sixty miles an hour,
with a heavy train behind it! A frightful
speed, you would think, if you could stand
and see it pass."


FEW are sufficiently wise to prefer
censure which is useful, to praise which is
treacherous.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
CHARITY OF MORMON WOMEN.

	Charity is always illustrated by the figure of
a woman, and mankind have silently classed
this attribute as a womanly characteristic, and
called it the sister of Faith and Hope; and in
later years, women who spend a great portion
of their time in performing deeds of kindness
and benevolence, are designated as Sisters of
Charity. So closely associated is charity with
the life of the fair sex, that it is considered a
positive requisite of true womanly character.
	The world talk a great deal of charity, and
make a great ado about its loveliness, its excel-
lence, its charm, but though it sits admirably
on others, many persons are apt to admire the
mantle as an ideal beauty, who never really
don the garb, or cultivate the element in them-
selves. It sounds well, it is a pretty sentiment,
one likes, above all things, to realize it as a
part of the elements of that society with which
one mingles, but how hard it is to cherish it as
a part and portion of one's individual every-
day life.
	There is a large-hearted, open-handed charity
that ennobles and enriches the lives of both
men and women, for certainly if women have
this attribute largely developed they will im-
part the true germ to both sons and daughters;
this is the inevitable law of nature; but every
germ wants nourishment and proper cultiva-
tion, and the attributes possessed or inherited
resemble in many respects the order of nature's
vegetable kingdom. The exquisite germs re-
ceived as a precious heritage, placed in healthy
soil and carefully tended, grow and flourish,
and by and by blossom and ripen, producing
desirable fruits or results, but left in barren soil
without cultivation, are stinted, and wither
away: Then there is a custom or theory of
cultivation for all plants and all principles,
which, when adopted, promote fuller, richer
growth than to pursue all sorts of ways.
	Mormon women are anxious to ascertain and
pursue the highest and best methods in every
department of life and labor, and also in their
charities. They have a system of charity that
surpasses any other in its fitness and adapta-
tion to the circumstances of the people. We
allude to the institution called Relief Society;
but wishing not only to provide resources for
the present needs of the poor, the aged, the in-
firm and sick, but also to extend a still wider
field of benevolence, and enlarge the scope of
woman's labor beyond the to-day, and prepare
for emergencies in the coming future, Mormon
women have adopted a large hearted system of
public charity in the storing of grain, which
forms the staff of life.
	It is now over two years since this peculiar
enterprise was established, and from all parts
of the Territory reports reach us of the enjoy-
ment the sisters have in fulfilling this mission
of good works. It is a mission which impresses

[Column 2]
all who are truly charitable in tone and senti-
ment with the idea of its loftiness and sublim-
ity.
	Sisters, do you realize the privilege you
have, to store up grain against a day of want?
If you do, prove it by your most earnest and
energetic efforts now, when the Lord has
given such a bounteous harvest. The second
Annual Meeting of the several committees for
storing grain will be held in this city, Nov. 16;
and we hope previous to that time to receive
accurate reports from all parts of the Territory
stating the amount of grain on hand, and the
manner in which it is secured.
	We invite all who are interested in this grand
enterprise to attend the meeting and hear the
reports concerning this department of woman's
work. Due notice of the time and place of
holding it will be given through the "Deseret
News." One of the most active workers in
woman's cause in the East, an editor of a pa-
per devoted to the interests and advancement
of women, says, "I'm much interested in the
industries and labors of Mormon women, and
especially the storing of grain, and intend giv-
ing place soon to an article on the subject."
								[---]


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.

	BY LETTER we learn that Sisters E. R.
Snow and E. Davis, who are making a tour
through some of the northern settlements,
were at Echo City on the 27th of October, in
the enjoyment of health, and rejoicing in their
labors.
	UTAH CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.—Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson intends establishing a musical
conservatoire on the Europen style. By this
means pupils may receive competent instruc-
tion in vocal and instrumental music much
cheaper than the usual terms. Dr. Ferguson is
a lady of superior culture, and has had the ad-
vantages of training in musical institutions
in Europe. She has the happy faculty of bring-
ing her pupils forward rapidly, and certainly
deserves patronage. She is also a teacher of
languages, elocution, dramatic reading, and,
indeed, is qualified to give instruction in all
the higher branches of education.
	ON THURSDAY, Oct. 24th, through courtesy
of Hon. George Q. Cannon, we had the plea-
sure of attending the Indian Commission party
in a railroad trip to the Old Telegraph Smelt-
ing, Concentrating and Leaching Works, a
little beyond the Junction of the Bingham
Cañon Railroad. There was a sufficient num-
ber to make the party a pleasant one, and as
most of the gentlemen and ladies were unac-
quainted with the process of smelting, concen-
trating and leaching, and as Prof. Holden was
ready to elucidate and explain, as also Mrs.
Holden, who seemed quite intelligent on the
subject, going through the establishment was
made specially interesting. The party con-
sisted of Senator Saunders of Nebraska; Sena-
tor McCreery of Kentucky, General Hooker of
Mississippi, and Dr. Stuart and Mr. Caldwell
of Minnesota, of the joint Indian Commission,
with several gentlemen from Camp Douglas,
Col. Trotter, Lieut. Patterson and others; from
the city Mayor Little, wife and daughters,
Prof. L. E. Holden and wife, Prof T. B. Lewis
and wife, Bishop Sharp and daughter, the re-
porters for the "Deseret News" and "Salt Lake
Herald," and several other young people, who,
with the genial flow of wit and humor, made
the conversation lively, and the time sped
swiftly as also the train.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of the Eleventh Ward celebrated

[Column 2]
their Seventh Anniversary Friday, Oct. 18, in
the Ward Meeting House; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presiding. There were present as visitors Pres
Angus M. Cannon and several brethren of the
ward, Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of Relief
Societies of Salt Lake Co., and her Counselors,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and S. M. Heywood, Mrs.
Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	After singing and prayer, Ass't Secretary
Miss Alice Freeze read the minutes of the last
meeting, and Treasurer Mrs. Louie Felt read
the Financial Report for the past year, which
was a very creditable one, there having been
donated by the Society $193 00, which had
been disbursed to the Temple, to the storing of
grain, and to charitable purposes. Next fol-
lowed an essay by Mrs. E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Pres. Cannon spoke eloquently on the estab-
lishing of Mutual Improvement Associations
and their object; also upon the necessity of
sustaining home industries. Mrs. Horne made
some excellent remarks, and was followed by
the other lady visitors, all of whom gave good
instructions. Counselor E. R. Shipp, in be-
half of the Association, presented to the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Freeze, an elegant hair wreath,
nicely framed; the wreath being composed
entirely of the hair of the members, accompa-
nied by a poem written by Mrs. Shipp and
dedicated to Mrs. Freeze, who responded in a
few words, it being wholly a surprise to her.
The meeting adjourned for one year; and the 
company sat down to a choice repast which
had been arranged by the young ladies. A good
spirit pervaded the assembly, and all felt that
the time had been well spent.
	IN COMPANY with Sisters Zina D. and Martha
B. Young, we recently made a tour through
some of the settlements in Utah County, in
the interest of th[-] Relief Societies and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations.
We left this city on Wednesday morning, Oct.
16, and was absent four days; visited Lehi,
American Fork, Spanish Fork, Goshen, Pleas-
ant Grove, and attended nine meetings. The
Bishops and brethren in the various lo[-]alities
came out to the sisters' meetings, manifesting
the greatest interest in their labors. Under
the direction of the Bishops and Relief Socie-
ties eight Primary Associctions were organized.
Much general instruction was given in regard
to woman's work in connection with these So-
cieties, all of which was sanctioned by the
Bishops; the good results of the sisters' labors
are everywhere becoming apparent.
	At Spanish Fork we found the meeting house
decorated with a great variety of needle and
ornamental work of various kinds, designs and
patterns, in honor of their Annual Meeting.
We were all both surprised and delighted to
see that so much had been done by the Society.
The report was excellent. At Goshen we met
with a similar surprise, the house being very
beautifully decorated, as though it had been
for a festival instead of a meeting; indeed, the
effect seemed to be inspiring. It was also the
Annual Meeting of the Relief Society of
Go[-]hen.  There were visitors from several other
settlements—Spanish Fork, Santaquin and
Spring Lake, among whom were Bishop Halla-
day of Santaquin, and Mrs. E. J. Stickney,
President of Santaquin R. S, Mrs. M. Fergu-
son, President of Spanish Fork. Their report
was also very creditable. In the evening we
met with the Y. L. M. I. A., a large number
of young men also being present; after the
evening had been spent in speaking and other
religious exercises, Mrs Christina Higginson
read a poem she had composed for the occasion,
as a welcome to the sisters who had come to
visit them.


Saturday morning the little children were
called together and were organized into a Pri-
mary Association. Everywhere we went we
were most cordially welcomed and hospitably
entertained, and the best feelings of the peo-
ple seemed to be drawn out in supporting the
advancement of women in the home indus-
tries, storing of grain, silk-culture, i[-] fact all
spiritual, mental and industrial progression.
	The weather was fine, the country air brac-
ing, and the picture which presented ittelf on
all sides was pleasing. Peaceful villages nes-
t[-]ed in the valleys, with fields, just shorn of
their beauty, lying bare, while the numerous
stacks and cornricks told of the plenteous har-
vests; orchards just turned brown and purple,
and shrubbery, nipped with frost, in all the va-
rieties of shade, cattle grazing on the hills, or
lowing in the farmyards, herds of sheep nip-
ping closer the short grass, stands of beehives,
and a thousand other pastoral beauties, that
bespoke the thrift and industry of the people.
How one accustomed to the city rejoices in a
visit to the country, where all is simple and
rustic, and the very air of hospitality is in it-
self exhilarating. In this mountainous land
wherever we go there is variety in the scenery,
land at this season of the year the rich hues of
autumn foliage lends another charm to the
mountain scenery. The maple, the mountain
ash, the scrub oak and ivy are ablaze with
scarlet, or royally robed in purple.
	Everywhere prosperity seems to smile upon
the homes of the Saints, and the blessings of
God crown their labors. One of the most pleas-
ing things in our experience in these visits is
to see the little children, boys and girls, called
together in the Primary Associations; their
smiling faces glowing with health, their eyes
sparkling with intelligence, watching the
speakers, anxiously expectant, and desirous
to learn their part in the programme of the
meeting.
	We return our thanks to the brethren and
sisters who so cordially entertained our party,
and conveyed us all from place, and especially
the Bishops who opened the meeting houses
for the accomodation of the sisters, extending
them every privilege possible to make the
meetings pleasant, and honoring the occasion
with their presence and hearty approval of the
sisters' works.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		85


TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE Y. L.
	M. I. A. OF SALT LAL[-] STAKE OF ZION:
	GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters: Having been recently chosen
as Superintendent of the branches of Y. L. M.
I. A. in this Stake of Zion, I feel desirous to
express, in a humble manner, my thanks for
the honor conferred upon me by my sisters in
electing me to fill so responsible a position. I
am thankful to my Heavenly Father that we,
the handmaidens of the Lord, are called to be
co-workers with the brethren in His work
in this the last dispensation. Sisters, do we
fully appreciate the privileges and blessings
we enjoy through the principles and institu-
tions of the holy Gospel? I know there are
many faithful sisters among the young ladies,
and I comprehend, though in a small degree
only, something of the future that lies before
them, and the need they have to qualify them-
selves for high and holy duties.
	I shall be pleased to visit the various
branches of the Y. L. M. I. A. in this county,
from time to time, whenever it will be most
convenient for the sisters to receive me. I
would say to the officers of Societies, be faith-
ful in advising and encouraging the young sis-
ters to assist in sustaining all home industries,


also home literature. The young ladies should
read the best books and papers, those that will
give them a knowledge of the principles of
eternal truth. There are many good books of
prose and poetry. The Harp of Zion is full of
inspiration, and is musical in expression and
delineation of its subjects. There are two vol-
umes of poems by Zion's sweet songstress, our
beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow, and the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT furnishes us with both prose
and poetry of a character adapted to the minds
of the women of Zion, and it should be sus-
tained by our young ladies as well as the older
ones; all have the privilege of contributing to
its columns. Great things will be required at
the hands of the teachers and instructors of
the young, and there is much need of wisdom
to discharge judiciously the duties devolving
upon them. May the blessing of God rest upon
the young ladies who are striving to be useful
in their day and generation, and upon all who
are co-workers in the great Latter-day work, is
the prayer of
	Your humble servant,
				MARY A. FREEZE.
			Superintendent Y. L. M. I. A.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.

	It pleased our Heavenly Father to call to
Himself, on September 29, our beloved Sister
Lydia Ann Weiler Horne. She left a husband
and four children (one of them a little babe
six weeks old), and a circle of friends as exten-
sive as her acquaintance, to mourn her loss.
She possessed some of the most exquisite wo-
manly faculties and attributes. She exercised
a decided influence for good, which her sweet
memory will preserve. Her home was ever a
pleasant resort to those who associated with
her.
	For ten years she lived and labored with us,
in which time her example helped greatly to
elevate the tone and taste of society in our set-
tlement. For six years she was President of
our Relief Society, when her feeble health
would not admit of the responsibilities which
that position involved. She then acted for
three years as First Counselor to our present
President, Mrs. Sarah Copley, in which posi-
tion she made herself very useful till her
death. While her husband, Bishop Joseph S.
Horne, was on a recent mission to Switzerland
she was ever happy and hopeful. Her children
show what a mother can do by precept and ex-
ample. Her faith in God and His priesthood
was unfaltering, and but a few hours before her
death she said, "If it was not for the priest-
hood, I should not be here now."
	The funeral services were held in our school-
house, immediately before Br. Horne started
with the remains for S. L. City, where they,
according to her own request, were deposited.
Many loving friends assembled to take a last
look at that dear, gentle friend; and many ac-
companied them to the next settlement, Fay-
ette, where Bro. Horne warmly thanked his
friends for their sympathy and the kind feel-
ings thus expressed.				H. M.
	Gunnison, Oct. 15, 1878.

	DIED, of diphtheria, in Salt Lake City, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Oct. 16, little Roy Clawson,
youngest [-]on of H. B. and Ellen S. Clawson,
aged three years and one month. Roy was
born September 20, 1875. He did not appear
to suffer at all during his four days' illness, and
passed away as gently and sweetly as though
he was going to sleep. "Auntie, I'm done
playing," were the last words he ever spoke.
He was a most interesting child, affectionate
in his nature, and fondly attached to his little

[Column 2]
playmates, brothers and sisters; his death has
left a vacancy in the home circle that can
never be filled until the morning of the resur-
rection, when "mothers receive their dead to
life;" but the great Healer of all wounds helps
to make our griefs less poignant as he journeys
onward, and to all who seek it the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, is given, which lifts the mourn-
er above sorrow and gives that consolation
which is an ever-abiding hope and trust in the
promises of God, and enables us to say, "God
knoweth best."
	We extend our sincere sympathies to the be-
reaved parents and family.

	"There is no flock, however watch'd and tended,
		But one dead lamb is there!
	There is no fireside, howe'er defended,
		But has one vacant chair."

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, Aug. 18, 1878, Flor-
ence Emily Dunford, youngest daughter of
Bishop George and Mrs. Sarah Dunford, aged
13 years, 8 months, and 24 days. Deceased was
born in St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 14, 1864. She was
a superior and promising girl, mature in devel-
opment, both physically and mentally, beyond
her years, and this was often remarked upon
by her relatives and those who were intimately
acquainted with her. She possessed some of
the finest womanly qualities, which rendered
her specially attractive to her schoolmates and
friends. In her home she was fondly cher-
ished, endearing herself to father, mother,
brothers and sisters, by her kindly manner and
thoughtfulness of the wishes and desires of
others. She had a tender heart, ever alive to
the sorrows of her associates, manifesting as
much interest in their troubles as if they were
her own. Miss Flossie (as she was usually
called) was a constant attendant at Miss Cook's
school for several years. At the exhibition
given at the close of the school last summer,
she recited "Infeiicissime," a very beautiful
and touching poem, the last words of which
are,

		"And the careless are the light—
			Light of heart and light of head;
		And ye robe the bride in white,—
			And in white ye shroud the dead."

Methinks I see her now as she stood there
then, in maidenly sweetness, full of life and
vigor and in the bloom of health and youthful
beauty. We sympathize most deeply with
the bereaved mother and friends, but feel as-
sured that with their dear Flossie all is well.


REMEDIES FOR THE BLUES.

	"What makes you look so down-hearted,
as if you hadn't a friend in the world?"
asked an unmarried lady of one who was
the mother of five children. "Because I
feel so," was the reply. "Well, why do
you feel so? Why don't you sing and smile
and think of the blessings which surround
you, and thank God for them and ask for
more, and be happy?" queried the single
lady, who, having no trouble in being cheer-
ful herself, could not see why others should.
To which the weary wife and mother re-
plied, "You know I never could sing.,,
"Why don,t you whistle, then?" asked the
girl. But here listen to what Faith Roches-
ter has to say about it. "Good health is 
a foundation for that which goes by the
name of 'Good nature.' A half sick woman
will usually be irritable. When a loving
and well-meaning mother finds herself
'cross,' she needs to pray for grace, and 
something else—to pray in the most practi-
cal manner for plenty of help and plenty of
rest, and for good diet and pure air, too."
Certainly, Faith is right.
						LULA.


86		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


QUARTERLY OONFERENCE.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion was held in the large
Tabernacle in this city, Oct. 5th, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M. Cannon
presiding. There was a fair representation
of the officers of the Stake present. All
the wards were represented, except the
20th and North Jordan Wards. After the 
prayer and singing were concluded, a sta-
tistical report of the Stake for the Quarter
ending Aug. 31st, was read; this report in-
cluding also the number of persons drawing
support, the amount of support drawn, and
the amount of fast-day donations in this
Stake.
	A financial report of the Relief Societies
of this Stake, as follows: Wheat on hand,
stored by the Central Grain Committee,
1525 bushels; stored by branch Societies of
the Stake, 4,632 bu.; stored during the
past quarter, 592 bu.; total now on hand,
6,749 bu.; received in cash and property,
$3,747 21; disbursments in cash and prop-
erty, $1,621 79.
	Letter from the Superintendent and As-
sistants of the Sunday Schools of the Stake,
representing them as everywhere in a
prosperous condition. Report from the
New Tabernacle committee, in response to
an allotment made to the various wards.
President Joseph Young made some re-
marks on the duties of the Seventies. Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor presented the authorities
of the Stake, who were unanimously sus-
tained as at last Conference, with some few
exceptions and changes. Elder Orson F.
Whitney was sustained as Bishop of the
18th Ward, in place of Elder Lorenzo D.
Young, whose resignation had been ac-
cepted; Robert Patrick and Wm. B. Barton 
as his Counselors. The leader and members
of the Tabernacle Choir, the President and
Counselors of the Scandinavian meetings
were also sustained. Also Mrs. M. I. Horne
as President of Relief Societies, and her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S.
M. Heywood. Superintendents and assis-
tants of Sunday Schools were sustained as
previously:
	Pres. Angus M. Cannon then made some
remarks upon the business matters of the
Stake, and the conduct of men holding po-
sitions. He said: "Those who disgrace
the positions they occupy by drinking and
other evil practices, will be removed, and
more worthy men appointed in their place;
for these positions are important, and those
sustained in them must wield a proper in-
fluence among the people." He said, in
answer to a question that had been asked,
that women could only hold the priesthood
in connection with their husbands; man
held the priesthood independent of woman.
The sisters have a right to anoint the sick,
and pray the Father to heal them, and to
exercise that faith that will prevail with
God; but women must be careful how they
use the authority of the priesthood in ad-
ministering to the sick.
In the afternoon the time was occupied
by Presidents J. E. Taylor and Angus M. 
Cannon, Apostle Orson Pratt and Pres. John
Taylor, in giving general instruction to the
Saints on various subjects, both of a tem-
poral and spiritual character. The Confer-
ence adjourned sine die.


HEALTH.

	Health, thou precious boon, how early
are we forsaken by thee, how difficult to


regain thee. Why must I languish here,
when my soul loves to wrestle with the
many promises of success held out by am-
bition and hope. Sweet spirit of health, I
call you cruel! I pined, and to my com-
plaint there seemed to come a wall of re-
proach in answer; “I am chained, I am
bound, I cannot come till you loose my fet-
ters.” I loose thy fetters, I who so long to
hold thee to my bosom and call thee mine?
“Even so, to you, who formed the links one
by one.” I only answered, How? “Do
you not transgress the divine laws of God
and nature day by day? Are not the hours
given for sleep, when nature clothes herself
with the mantle of darkness, purloined by
thee, and given to employment, or pastime?
Has it not been written, “Retire early that
you may be refreshed?” Many times have
I gladly held thine eyelids down to give
thee warning, all unheeded by thee. How
many times when I am thine attendant at
the well-spread board I groan, for the cup
of boiling liquid is recklessly taken, which
retards digestion, and excites the brain and
body to inordinate action, only to leave it
more debilitated than before; your food
half masticated is left for your poor stom-
ach to labor with, and strong meats, rich
gravies, and many other things that divine
revelation has said are not good for man
are recklessly taken by thee; the night air
blows rudely on thy half-protected form,
but the tyrant fashion says, as others do
so you must. Many are the links that bind
me—fain would I touch the pale cheek with
rosy bloom, the wasted form with rounded
beauty, the pale lips with carmine, the
drooping eye with light of life, and cause
the chafing spirit to rejoice in the great
blessing of health. Maiden mine, I have
done.”
	For a time I mused—then thought found
words. And I have done all this, and yet I
thought to myself I served my God. Pa-
tiently must I regain, step by step, that
which folly has wrested from me, for well I
know that genius, ambition, power and
wealth are all as naught when deprived of
health, and let my prayer ascend on high,
and be answered on earth, that wisdom be
mine to know how to enjoy the blessings
which God is willing to bestow.
	Provo, Oct., 1878.	WINNIFRED.


[Column 1]
TRANSMISSION.

	Jean Ingelow, in her poem of "Margaret
at the Mere Side," tells, in her own sweet,
dreamy fashion, the story of a fair girl—a
woman in years, but dumb and always to be
a child in intellect—who sat hour by hour,
and day by day, "on the gray stone beneath
the sycamore",—innocent, wistful, sad, al-
ways waiting, always gazing down at the mere.
Her mother had come there a six months'
bride, to see her husband's boat go down the
stream, never to return;

"And she with weeping sore
Peered in the water-flags unceasingly.
*	*	*	*	*
And, after, desolate she sat alone
And mourned refusing to be comforted,
On the gray stone—the moss embroidered stone,
Till, when the days grew short, a child was born
To the dead father underneath the wave"

—A child whose dumb, pensive soul was, by
the subtle sympathy of nature, to be stamped
for life with a grief she never knew.
	Look at anothe picture—from Miss Phelps'
"Silent Partner"—a scene in the pinched, 
worn, driven life of New England factory
girls. Catty—poor, deaf, dumb, repulsive
Catty—had fallen asleep. "Her long fin-
gers moved a little, framing broken words.

[Column 2]
Even in her dreams, this miserable creature
bore about her a dull sense of denial and
distress. Even in her dreams, she listened 
for what she never heard, and spoke that
which no one understood.'
	'Mother used to say', said sip, under her
breath, 'that it was the noise.'
	'The noise?'
	'The noise of the wheels. She said they
beat about in her head. She came home o'
nights, and says to herself, "The baby 'll
never hear in this world, unless she hears
the wheels," and sure enough,' Sip lifted her
face to Perley's with a look of awe—'it is
true enough, that Catty hears the wheels,
but never anything beside.'"
	Cowan and Mrs. Duffey, and Joseph Cook,
in his grand, brave way, will tell us of scores
of wonders like this, but let us take just one
scene from Mrs. Kirby's "Transmission."
We see a young wife stung and tortured by
the daily desertion and faithlesness of him
who should have been her stay and comfort.
We see her patiently, bravely, resolutely
turning away from the sight and feeling of
this torment. We see her—and we think she 
must have asked Heaven's help—constantly
and firmly putting aside and treading down
every burning thought, every vengeful feel-
ing. She did this not for herself, but for the
sake of an innocent soul which she knew
would reflect her own. She had her reward 
in one who grew up before her, pure, sweet,
strong and calm. She had liften him above
dark and petty things into the bright, free
atmosphere of great souls.
	When will the awful significance of these
things dawn upo[-] men and women? When
shall the ideal mother come to her high vo-
cation carefully and reverently, as an artist
comes to her marbles, clothed with strength,
dowered with wisdom, and baptized with
purity and love? When shall she be upheld
and comforted by a husband as pure, as rev-
erent, as herself?
	Do we see all the meaning of Miss Phelps'
ideal marriage? "With her, he is a crowned 
creature; with him she is a free one." Hus-
band of to-day, do you not see that so soon
as you enslave this free creature, your own
royalty, and that of your children, is gone?
So sure as you bind her down upon the altar
of a lower nature, there shall creep forth, out
of the blood of sacrificed womanhood a
swarm of evil creatures that shall look at
you and reproach you, out of the eyes of
your children. 		MARY L. GRIFFITH.
	Woman's Words.


A STANDING VOTE.

	In the address of the Executive Commit-
tee, reference is made to a "standing vote."
English women petition largely, sending in
each year over a quarter of a million of
names asking for the full right of woman
suffrage. But their method of securing
those names is very different from the way
we have worked in the past, and much less
laborious. At every woman suffrage meet-
ing those in favor are requested to atand up
and remain standing until counted. Then
the President and Secretary of the meeting
sign their own names to the petition, add-
ing, and so many others, giving the number.
For instance, if forty-nine persons stood up,
the President and Secretary would sign
their own names, adding, "and forty-nine
others." This is a much easier and more
expeditious way of getting signatures to pe-
titions, than the way the N. W. S. A. has
heretofore practiced, and is the plan recom-
mended by the Executive: Committee. Try
friends.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


[Column 1]
ADDRESS

OF THE N. W. S. A. TO THE FRIENDS OF
EQUAL SUFFRAGE FOR WOMAN.

	In pursuance of instructions of the an-
nual meeting held in Rochester, N. Y.,
July 18, 1878, the Executive Committee
present to you the following satement of
work done and to be done during the 45th
Congress.

WORK DONE.

	Since the assembling of the first regular
session, Dec. 3d, 1877, forty thousand men
and women have petitioned Congress for a
16th amendment prohibiting States from
disfranchising United States citizens on ac-
count of sex. The signatures were obtained
by 1,020 women in 425 towns, 125 Congres-
sional districts, 35 States and five Territo-
ries, and duly presented to Congress by 55
Senators and 100 Representatives.
	Jan. 10th, 1878, Senator Sargent, of Cali-
fornia, introduced a joint resolution propos-
ing a 16th amendment for the enfranchis-
ment of woman.
	Jan. 11th and 12th the Senate Committee
reported adversely; their report is now on
the [-]alendar, subject to action at the next
session of Congress. The Senators endors-
ing it are Wadleigh, N. H.; McMillan,
Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.; Merriman, S. C.;
Hill, Ga., and Ingalls, Kansas. Those in
favor of the 16th Amendment, Senators
Hoar, Mass., Mitchell, Oregon and Camer-
on, Wis., are expected to bring in a favor-
able miority report at the opening of the
second session. December next.
	Feb. 5th, the House Judiciary Commit-
tee voted upon a resolution recommending
our proposed 16th amendment, which re-
sulted in a tie; Yeas, Lapham, N. Y.;
Lynde, Wis.; Frye, Me.; Butler, Mass.;
Conger, Mich. Nays, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMahan,
Ohio; Culberson, Texas. Absent, Harris of
Virginia; who has declared himself open to
conviction.
	During the last session of Congress the
temperance women of the nation sent up a
petition of 30,000, praying for "Home Pro-
tection." Though asking to have their
opinions counted on the one question of
licensing the liquor traffic, we may right-
fully add them to our 40,000, thus making
us a 70,000 prayer for the national protec-
tion of women in their citizen's right to a
voice in the government.
	The bill admitting women to practice be-
fore the Supreme Court unanimously re-
ported by the Judiciary Committee and
passed in the House of Representatives by
a vote of 169 to 87, stands upon the Senate
calendar with adverse report of its Judi-
ciary Committee to be acted upon at the
coming session.
	The individual petitions of 300 women of
the various States, asking Congress to re-
move their political disabilities, received
no attention—were not even noticed by ad-
verse reports—while similar petitions from
nine disfranchised men were each promptly
acted upon, and their political rights re-
stored.

WORK TO BE DONE.

	1st. Let all who failed to send 16th
amendment petitions to Washington last
winter, sign, circulate and mail them, pre-
paid (letter postage, remember) to our Re-
cording Secretary, Ellen H. Shelden, No.
1011 M Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.,
on or before the 25th of December, 1878,
that they may be in the hands of Sena-
[Column 2]
tors Hoar, Mitchell and Cameron when they
present their minority report, which we
hope and expect will be in the first week
in December. Please note, friends, that
we are not asking you to roll up a new peti-
tion to a new Congress, but simply to get
all the new names you can to send to the
2d session of the same Congress to add to
the 40,000 presented last winter.
	2d. To the 70,000 petitions for woman's
right of representation now before the 45th
Congress, we wish to add the weight of the
opinions of the friends of woman suffrage
in the Legislatures of the several States
and Territories. To secure such expres-
sion, we ask the suffragists throughout the
country to petition their respective Legis-
latures, asking them to pass resolutions re-
commending Congress to submit a 16th
amendment proposition to the States.
	3d. We ask the officers of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, representing
the different States, to call conventions at
their Capital city early in the session of
their Legislature, and make special effort
to secure action on the 16th amendment
resolution.
	4th. We urge the friends, everywhere,
to call public meetings, get the best local
speakers, and at the close of each meeting
take a standing vote on our 16th amend-
ment question, duly count it and send two
reports thereof, signed by the President
and Secretary of the meeting to our Secre-
tary, Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 1011 M. Street,
N. W. Washington, D. C., for the presenta-
tion to Congress, and two to the State Vice
President of the N. W. S. A. for presenta-
tion to your Legislature.
	5th. Let the Temperance organizations
of the country secure a vote of their mem-
bers upon our question and send reports
thereof duly signed by their officers on be-
half of the number who desire the enfran-
chisement of women.
	6th. Let every woman send to one of
the Senators or Representatives of her State
an individual petition to Congress for the
removal of her own political disabilities.
	7th. Let women by the hundreds and
thousands each address the Senators and
Representatives of her State, both in Con-
gress and Legislature, asking them to vote
for the 16th amendment resolution. Such
direct personal appeals, by voice or letter
will have far more weight than the same
words in the form of a petition, and will
compel our law-makers to feel that we are
not discouraged by their indifference or ad-
verse reports, but instead, are stimulated
to more earnest and determined efforts to
secure national protection in our citizen's
right to vote.
	8th	*	*	*	*
We ask our friends to copy petitions
in ink for themselves, in a clear, legible
hand, obtain signatures immediately and
forward, postage paid, to the proper place
and person—those for Congress to the Sec-
retary of the N. W. S. A., Ellen H. Shel-
don; No. 1011 M. Street, N. W. Washington,
D. C., on or before Nov. 25, 1878; those for
the Legislature to the Vice Pres. of the
N. W. S. A. of your State, on or before Jan.
1st, 1879.
	9th. For the whole thirty years of our
woman suffrage work the one great hin-
drance has been lack of money to meet the
necessary expenses, and to-day it is no ex-
ception. We need money to publish tracts,
send out lecturers, hold conventions, and
for other manifold purposes. We therefore
urge our friends everywhere to send contri-
butions by draft on New York or by P. O.

[Column 3]
Order to our Treasurer, Ellen C. Sargent,
1733 DeSales St., Washington, D. C.
	10th. And last, To save the National
Woman Suffrage Association the labor and
expense of printing and posting the tens of
thousands calls, appeals and petitions, which
we have heretofore incurred, (the past
year, alone, at cost of $1,000) we urge all
wishing to co-operate with us to subscribe,
at once, for the "National Citizen and Ballot
Box, which will hereafter be our medium
of communication with friends and work-
ers.
	On behalf Executive Committee N. W.
S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Chairman.
	Rochester, Sept. 2, 1878.


SENSIBLE TALK FROM A GERMAN
PAPER.

	What shall we do with our daughters?
Give them a good school education; teach
them to cook healthy food. Teach them to
wash, to iron, to mend stockings, to sew on
buttons, to maks their own clothes and a
well-fitting shirt. Teach them to bake; to
know that good cooking saves medicine.
Teach them that a dollar is worth one hun-
dred cents; that only those are saving who
spend less than they receive, and that what-
ever more is spent tends to impoverish.
Teach them that they are much better
dressed in strong cotton garments than in
silk, if they are in debt. Teach them that
one round, full face is worth more than
fifty beautiful consumptive ones. Teach
them to wear strong shoes. Teach them to
make good purchases, and see to the reck-
oning of their accounts. Teach them that
they spoil God's image when they lace
tightly. Teach them good common-sense,
confidence, self-reliance and industry.
Teach them to do garden work and enjoy
nature. Teach them likewise, if they have
money enough, music, painting and all arts,
remembering that these things are second-
ary. Teach them that walking is much
better than riding, and that wild flowers
are very beautiful to those who observe
them. Teach them to despise all make-
believes, and that one should say yes or 
no, when one really means it. Teach them
that happiness in marriage depends neither
upon the station nor the wealth of the hus-
band, but upon his character.
	If you have taught your daughters all
this, and made them understand it fully,
then let them when the time comes, marry
in perfect confidence; they will be sure to
find their way without further assistance.—
Colorado Farmer.


WORSE THAN NONE.—A bad husband is
infinitely worse than none. Girls, never
marry a fellow who is ashamed to carry a
bundle; who lies in bed until breakfast
and until his father has opened his shop,
or office, and swept it out; who frequents
taverns, bowling-saloons, prize fights, etc.;
who owes his tailor, shoemaker, washerwo-
man, jeweler, barber, printer and landlady,
and never pays his debts; who is always
talking about his acquaintances, and con-
demning them; whose tongue is always
running about nonsense; who thinks he is
the greatest man in the neighborhood, and
yet whom every one despises and shuns.
We say never marry a fellow with all or
any of these qualifications, no matter how
handsome he is, or how agreeable he can
make himself on occasions. He will make
a bad husband.—Waverly Magazine.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Dear Editor:—According to your instructions
my First Counselor and myself visited the 
houses, and a[-]certained the number of chil-
dren between the ages of four and ten to be
one hundred and four.
	We held our First Primary Meeting on 
Thursday; the 24th inst., at the school house;
there were fifty-two names enrolled, viz.
twenty-five girls and twenty-seven boys, and 
we expect more.
	Bishop Wm. Price met with us; we opened
our meeting by singing and prayer, after which
I asked the children some questions, and if
they remembered what Sister Zina taught
them; which I found they did.
	Bishop Price then talked to them a while;
among other things he told them they must
be orderly and obedient. I then asked them to
rise and thank the Bishop for what he had
said, which they did by bowing and saying
"Thank you, sir." I then appointed a little
boy as monitor for the boys' side, and a little
girl likewise to the girls.
	Sister M. A. Till spoke a few words, by re-
quest; Counselor Lucy Taylor followed. After
which I appointed the meetings for Saturdays,
at 3 o'clock p. m. precisely. Closed by singing
"Gleaners in the harvest field," and Lucy
Taylor dismissed by prayer.
	The names of the officers are as follows:

	Sarah Roberts, President.
	Lucy Taylor,			} Counselors,
	Mary Ann Gardner,	}
	M. A. Till, Secretary,
	Maggie Higginson, Ass't Sec'y.
		Very respectfully,
				SARAH ROBERTS, President.
						M. A. TILL, Secretary.
	Go[-]hen, Oct. 20, 1878.


THE SIXTH Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the advancement of women was
held in Providence, R. I., Oct. 9 and 10,
Mrs. Kate M. Doggett, of Chicago, presid-
ing, "charming her audience by her genial
yet dignified manner." There were present
many noted workers in woman's pregres-
sion. There were both day and evening
sessions, and papers were read from cele-
brated writers and thinkers on popular sub-
jects of interest, and time given to discuss-
ing their merits. The notices we have
seen of this Congress agree in pronouncing
it a great success.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings. Vice-pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time pu[-]chase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878,

AN Immense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just recieved from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z. C. M. I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN,
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards. & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks cast of Post Office, south side of
street
	Special study has been given to Obsterics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S

	Delivery Wagonds will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 15, 1878.		No. 12.


[For the EXPONENT.
ALONE WITH MY CONSCIENCE.

	I sat alone with my conscience
		In a place where time had ceased,
	And we talked of my former-living,
		Where endless years increase.

	And I knew I should have to answer
		The questions it put to me:
	And to face the questions and answers
		Throughout an eternity.

	The ghosts of forgotten actions
		Came floating before my sight,
	And things I thought were dead things
		Were alive, with terrible might.

	And the vision of my past life
		Was an awful thing to face,
	Sitting alone with my conscience,
		In that solemn and silent place.

	And I thought of a far-away warning,
		Of a sorrow that was to be mine,
	In a land that was in the future;
		And now is the present time.

	And I thought of former reflections,
		What the judgment day would be,
	But sitting alone with my conscience
		Seemed judgment enough for me.

	And I wondered as to the future,
		In this land beyond the grave;
	But no one spake an answer,
		No one came forward to save.

	Then I felt that the future was present,
		And the present would never go by;
	For the awful weight of my past life
		Became an eternity.

	Then I woke from my timely dreaming,
		And the vision passed away;
	And I knew the far off warning
		Was a warning of yesterday.

	And I pray I may not forget it;
		In this land before the grave,
	That I may not call in the future,
		And no one come to save.

	And so I have learned a lesson
		I ought to have known before;
	And although I learned it dreaming,
		I hope to forget no more.
								MARY WRAY.
S. L. City, Sunday; Oct. 20, 1878.


[Column 1]
	[For the EXPONENT.
	THE INTEGRITY OF RUTH.

	What Christian is there of whatever
creed who has not admired the character of
Ruth? She is immortalized for her con-
stancy to her mother, Naomi, and for her
devotion to her husband's people.  The
Christian women all over the civilized
world hold her up as a model; and repre-
sentations of her beauty, her sweetness, her
grace, are given in many ways and forms;
and her strong affections so impress them-
selves upon womankind, that Ruth is really
one of the most striking illustrations to be
given characterizing Christian women.
But what if to day any woman should en-
act the part of Ruth literally, and insist as
she did, and as Naomi, her mother-in-law,
did, on the strict performance of the law
being carried out with reference to kinship;
why, the modern world would be horrified
and would want special legislation brought
to bear—because it would be "so degrad-
ing they could not possibly endure it any
longer."  Fortunately for Ruth, she died
thousands of years ago, for if she had lived
to day she would have been cast out as
evil; for in this highly enlightened Nine-
teenth century let no woman dare be as

[Column 2]
brave and heroic, or as self-sacrificing and
unselfish as Ruth, or they will be outcast
and despised by these LOVERS OF PURITY (?).
	We are told by Christian teachers in the
world to imitate the examples of the illus-
trious women of the Scriptures; but let
any one do so in reality, the finger of scorn
will be pointed at them.  What does it
mean? That these are women of a type
and class only to be cherished as a thing of
the past, but never re-produced?  Then
why are they models, and how are we to be
benefitted by their example, if we may not
imitate it?  Who does not know that Ruth
not only was anxious to become the wife of
Boaz, but that she, instructed by Naomi,
actually wooed him herself, and that in a
way and manner which to modern fashion-
able women would be entirely unwomanly
and lacking in modesty.  And yet all good
Christians reverence the character of Ruth;
they emblemize her in poetry, in prose, in
painting and in statuary.
	I would advise all those ladies who feel
so constrained to abolish "Plural Marriage"
to re-read the history of Ruth, Sarah, Han-
nah, Rachel, Leah, and the holy women
of old. I would call their attention to the
10th and 11th verses of the 3d chapter of
Ruth:
	"Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daugh-
ter; for thou hast shewed more kindness in
the latter end than in the beginning, inas-
much as thou followedst not young men,
whether poor, or rich.
	"And now, my daughter, fear not; I will
do to thee all that thou requirest; for all
the city of my people doth know that thou
art a virtuous woman."
	It is evident from what is written that
the whole conversation was not given, for
it seems Boaz comprehended that she de-
sired marriage with him.  How very in-
discreet was the widow Ruth, young and
fair and full of grace, and abounding in af-
fection as she was, to wash and anoint her-
self, and put on her raiment, and go and
lie down at the feet of a man and actually
propose to him that he take her to wife.
	Would not modern society be shocked by
the conduct of any young woman who did
the works of Ruth?  And don't you think
that Ruth should have been compelled to
go before the Grand Jury, or a Court of
Justice, and tell them why she washed and
anointed herself (it is apparent that she
had an object in doing so) and what sort of
raiment she put on when she went and laid
down at Boaz feet?
	However, the Lord blessed this peculiar
marriage, and through this lineage came
the Christ, the blessed Savior of the world.
	Does any one suppose that a man as true
and just and exact in observing the law of
kinship in regard to posterity would him-
self be willing to die without? Ruth's child
was hers and her mother Naomi's, if we
may be allowed to understand the Scrip-
tures for ourselves.  Ruth understood the
law of Celestial Marriage, and was willing
to be obedient thereunto, and she even con-
descended to marry an old man.  But we
must beware how we follow Ruth's exam-
ple, only we may talk of her integrity, her
purity, her constancy, and down to the end
of time we may quote her words so touch-
ing and beautiful, "Whither thou goest, I

[Column 3]
will go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge;
thy people shall be my people, and thy God
my God."  Rest assured, my Christian
friends, that Ruth knew Boaz to be a man
of God, a man bound by the law of God in
holy and solemn covenants to protect virtue
and chastity in woman; and I think that
all those who are so outraged by the prac-
tice of plural marriage among the Mor-
mons, had better cease holding up as
models the characters and works of holy
women of old.
	In ancient times, we are told, women
ministered in Temples, as Anna the proph-
etess who went not out day nor night.
Does any of our wise men and women
know what she was doing there?  What
business had women in the Temple?  In
fact, what business had those people to
build Temples at all? they must have "cost
enormous sums of money."
	And how dare men in these days to read
in the Bible of the great deeds and works
of women, those pure women with whom
angels conversed; women were judges and
prophetesses in those days.  Is it not a
wonder that their mouths were not stopped?
It is exceedingly lucky for them that they
lived so long ago, for had they dared to do
such things in these days they would have
been called to account.  But what of the
prophecy in the Book of Joel, 2d chap.,
28th verse;
	"And it shall come to pass afterwards
that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh;
and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams
and your young men shall see visions."
	Don't you think that Christian ministers
will be alarmed when the young women
begin to prophesy, and will it not be very
unwomanly, and entirely contrary to Mad-
ame Grundy?  I'm very much afraid it
will.  And the newspapers and the jour-
nals will write them up as very indecent
young women, because they have dared to
step out of their sphere; for certainly
prophesying is no more a part of house-
keeping than lecturing or preaching is.
	All honor and praise to Ruth for her in-
tegrity to the law of God, and honor and
praise to the noble women  to the law of God,
though persecution wax strong against
them and their names be cast out as evil.
	AUNT EM.


"QUICK AS LIGHTNING."

	Lightning travels nearly a million times
faster than thunder. The speed of light-
ning is so great that it would go 480 times
round the earth in a minute. Whereas the
sound of thunder would go scarcely thir-
teen miles in the same space of time.
Thunder will take a second to travel 380
yards, hence a popular method of approxi-
mating the distance of a thunder cloud is
as follows: Immediately you see the light-
ning flash, put your hand upon your pulse
and count how many times it beats before
you hear the thunder; if it beats six pulsa-
tions the storm is a mile off, if twelve pul-
sations it is two miles off, and so on. In
the case of elderly people five pulsations
would measure nearly the same period of
time as six in the case of young people.


90		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		BRIGHAM CITY, ARIZONA,

						Oct. 6, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Relief Society of this place was or-
ganized June 23, 1878, by our worthy
Bishop, George Lake and Counselors, with
the following officers:

	Matilda P. Killian, President,
	Morilla Bates,	} Counselors,
	Martha Stratton,	}
	Mary A. Adams,	} Secretaries,
	Annie Woods,	}
	Mary K. Overson, Treasurer

	There were also eight Teachers chosen.
	The Society numbers twenty-nine mem-
bers. As we are living in the UNITED OR-
DER we have no poor to look after, but there
are many ways that we can do good; we
can look after the sick and take care of
them, and help one another in various ways.
We feel anxious to do something to for-
ward the work which we are engaged in.
It is a general time of health with us, for
which we feel truly grateful to our Heav-
enly Father, as well as for every other
blessing we receive from His bountiful
hand.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the
Daughters of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Covenant of Truth,
			M. P. KILLIAN, Pres't.
			MARY A. ADAMS, Sec'y.

		BRIGHAM CITY, BOX ELDER Co.,
						Oct. 28, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Sorry to learn, through the kindness of
Mrs. Harriet Snow, that an account of the
Relief Society Stake Organization has not
reached your office, of which I forwarded a
copy immediately after the organization of
the same, which was effected May 14, 1878.
Bishop John Welch presented the follow-
ing names for officers of Relief Societies
of Box Elder Stake of Zion, who were
unanimously sustained:

	Harriet Snow, Presiden[-]
	Susanna Boothe,	} Counselors,
	Mary Stark,
	Mary E. Snow, Recording Secretary,
	Amy Madsen, Corresponding Secretary.

	Despite the reverses which the Lord in
his infinite wisdom and goodness sees fit to
send upon us, we are doing much good,
both spiritually and temporally, toward
the promotion of home industries. As a
public servant our President could not be
surpassed. In superior adaptability to the
work.
	Wishing success to the cause of truth, I
remain yours &c., T
			M. E. SNOW, Rec'g Sec'y.

				PEOA, Sept. 23d, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Financial Report of Peoa Relief Society
from its organization, Sept. 1[-]th, 1875, un-
til July 31st, 1878.

RECEIPTS.

Cash......................................$ 62 35
Store Orders.......................... 12 03
Merchandise.........................  45 41 ½
						 ————
		Total........................119 78 ½

[Column 2]
EXPENDITURES.

Arizona Mission..................    6 00
Silk Association...................    7 50
The Poor..............................  13 94
To Temple............................  20 00
Expenses of Society............  47 79 ½
						————
		Total......................  95 28 ½
Amouut due Society...........  24 48
Cash on hand......................    3 00
Merchandise on hand........  39 86
						————
		Balance on hand.. 57 34
Wheat stored for Zion........105 bu.
	It will be seen that the property has in-
creased $42 79 ½; this has been done by the
labor of the sisters.
		LYDIA MARCHANT, Pres't.
		HARRIET M. MARCHANT, Sec'y.

RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
FERENCE.

MORGAN COUNTY STAKE.

	The first Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the Morgan Stake of Zion
convened on the 24th of October at ten A.
M., President Lydia Rich presiding.
There were on the stand Sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth Davis from Salt Lake,
also the Presidents of the nine Societies in
the Stake. There were present of the pre-
siding priesthood, Pres. W. G. Smith and
Counselor S. Francis, Bishops Chas. Turner,
John Hopkins, John K. Hall. Although
the weather was unfavorable there was a
good attendance. The meeting was called
to order by Pres. Lydia Rich, and after the
singing and prayer she arose and stated the
object of our meeting.
	The statistical and financial report of the
nine different Societies in the Stake were
then read by the Secretary, which is as fol-
lows in total:

No. of members enrolled.......................284
Average attendance of members..........102
No. of meetings held...............................534
No. of EXPONENTS taken........................  34
Total of Receipts............................$2,015 10
Disbursements to the Poor...............234 68
To Temple........................................181 00
To Stake Meeting House.................   12 89
To Missionaries..............................     85 55
To Emigration................................  139 26
1 Relief Society House and Lot...    150 00
Amount in shares in Co-op Store.. 495 80
To Silk Association.......................   15 25
Outstanding debts.........................  112 60
To Sunday School........................    8 25
To Centennial Flag......................   11 55
Sundry Disbursements................    55 83
Total Disbursements...................   1,443 99
Cash and Store Orders on hand..  92 14
Sundries on hand........................  199 46
Property on hand........................   671 11
Value of Quilts made in Societies       234 60
Wheat in store........................436 bu.   41lbs.
	Sister Snow then addressed us in a very
encouraging and instructive manner, call-
ing our attention to a great many labors
and duties which we as Saints and daugh-
ters of the Most High, living in the eve-
ning of Time, have to perform. Said our
organization in the R. S. would be of great
benefit to us, if we would honor our posi-
tions. Wished all the Saints to step for-
ward and share in the blessings of the So-
ciety. She regretted to see that here, as
in many other places, the average attend-
ance is so small, and feared if a few did all
the work they would also receive all the

[Column 3]
reward. She made many valuable remarks
upon the principles of love and union,
which should exist in our midst, without
which we could not live the Gospel of Jesus
Christ, as that Gospel knit and bound to-
gether; spoke against the pernicious prac-
tice of evil speaking and backbiting, also
against listening to tale-bearers. Said we
must not look for perfection in each other,
but sustain each other and the priesthood
of God upon the earth; and if we did this
our enemies would be powerless in our
midst.
	Sister E. Davis said she was much pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference ca-
pacity. Exhorted us to treasure up the
good instructions we had received and carry
them out in our lives, that we might rea-
lize a benefit from the same.
Pres. W. G. Smith made a few remarks
upon the organization and condition of the
Relief Societies, also upon the principle of
co-operation, which is a stepping-stone to
the United Order. Wished the sisters to
be united in their efforts to build up the
Kingdom of God. He referred to the in-
structions given us at our late General Con-
ference at Salt Lake by the presiding priest-
hood of the Church.
	Meeting then adjourned till 2 o'clock p.
m. The Choir sang, and benediction.
	At 2 p. m. meeting convened as per ad-
journment. Opened with singing and 
prayer. The Presidents of the nine Socie-
ties each gave a verbal report of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, which was
very satisfactory; after which Miss E. R.
Snow made a great many very interesting
remarks upon various subjects; said we
should spend our time usefully, and try to
strengthen and encourage each other by
good words and kind acts. Spoke of the
constant warfare between the flesh and the
spirit: Said Pres. Young gave the sisters
a mission, in connection with the brethren,
to lead out in Home Manufacture and the
Storing of grain; wished the sisters of this
County to make themselves eminent in
some particular branch of industry; recom-
mended us to make all the hats and bonnets
necessary for our use, and wished them
made beautiful; suggested that the means
thus saved be spent in purchasing machin-
ery. She bore a faithful testimony to the
truth and divinity of Celestial Marriage;
said she was very thankful that she could
truly say she had never utttered a word
against it. She exhorted us all to be hum-
ble and faithful, and always keep the chan-
nel of communication open between us and
our Heavenly Father.
	Remarks were then made by Mrs. E.
Davis, Bishop Turner, Counselor Francis
and Pres. Lydia Rich. Conference was
then adjourned for three months. Singing
and benediction.
			H. CORDELIA SMITH, Sec'y.

Littleton, Sept. 8, 1878.


TRUE joy is a serene and sober emotion;
and they are miserably wrong who take
laughing for rejoicing. The seat of it is
within, and there is no cheerfulness like
the resolution of a brave mind.

	PERFECT sincerity is the result of a deep
inward order, in which the true relations of
things are grasped so firmly that our words,
our silence, and everything else which
goes to make up our intercourse with each
other, fall into their right places without an
effort.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		91


SOMETIME.

Sometime, when all life's lessons have been learned,
	And suns and stars for evermore have set,
The things which our weak judgments here have spurned,
	The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, and life's dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue
And we shall see how all God's plans were right,
	And what most seemed reproof was love most true!

And we shall see how, while we frown and sigh,
	God's plans go on as best for you and me—
How, when we called, He heeded not our cry,
	Because His wisdom to the end could see;
And e'en as prudent parents disallow
	Too much of sweet to craving babyhood,
So God; perhaps, is keeping from us now
Life's sweetest things because it seemeth good.

And if, sometimes, commingled with life's wine,
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours, or mine,
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink;
And if some friend we love is lying low,
	And human kisses cannot reach his face,
Oh, do not blame the loving Father so,
	But wear your sorrow with obedient grace!

And you shall shortly know that lengthened breath,
	Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death
	Conceals the fairest boon His love can send;
If we could push ajar the gates of life,
	And stand within, and all God's working see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
	And for each mystery could find a key.

But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart!
	God's plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold;
And if through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we will say, "God knew the best."
										—SELECTED.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	In the Fall of 1838 we left Kirtland, and
with what we considered necessary for our
immediate wants we commenced our jour-
ney to Far West. Our family then con-
sisted of six children, the two youngest
being very delicate in health. My eldest
son was then fifteen years of age. While
we were on our way, a report reached us
that the Saints in Missouri were being
driven, mobbed and persecuted in a most
shocking and terrible manner; we were
careful to investigate the matter, in order
to ascertain its truth. We went on to St.
Louis and waited there until we could ob-
tain the facts in relation to the matter,
which we soon learned were most start-
lingly true. We considered it safest to go
over into Illinois to spend the winter, and
decided upon Carrolton Greene Co., Illinois.
Here I remained with my children alone,
while my husband returned to Kirtland to
settle some business and wait further orders
from the Prophet Joseph. We were in-
formed the goods we had sent up to Mis-
souri were thrown into the street, and the
store burnt to the ground. My eldest son
taught school while we remained there,
and as the persecution was at that time
most extreme, we kept quiet in regard to
religion. We were kindly treated, but
more particularly by two families who were
our near neighbors. In the Spring my
husband returned, and shortly after, accom-
panied by my eldest son, went up to Com-
merce, since called Nauvoo. At that place
they found that the Prophet Joseph and
many others of the Saints had settled and
commenced to re-organize and sustain each
other and the doctrines in which they be-
lieved. Joseph then told my husband to
return to his family and as quickly as prac-
ticable join the Saints there. Meantime a

[Column 2]
man named Bellows, who had formerly
known my husband in Kirtland, recognized
us as the Mormon Bishop's family, and de-
termined to have us mobbed and driven
from the town; but those two families who
had all the time befriended us, offered to
render us assistance in getting away, by
crossing the river in the night. So in a
neighborhood where we had been looked
upon with the greatest respect, we were
treated like outlaws, and compelled to flee
for safety. My husband and son returned
in time to cross the river with us; when we
reached the opposite bank and felt compara-
tively safe from our immediate enemies, I
shall never forget my husband's taking off
his hat, wiping the perspiration from his
brow, and thanking God for our deliver-
ance. Strange how trifling incidents like
these sometimes leave indelible impres-
sions upon the memory which can never be
effaced. From there we went up the river
to Quincy, Illinois, where several families
of the Saints who had been driven from
Missouri were living; among these was the
family of Titus Billings, one of our nearest
neighbors in Kirtland; his wife was the
first woman baptized in Kirtland, and is
still living. We found many other friends
and their families. We remained in Quincy
during the winter, and passed the time
rather pleasantly; my eldest son was fond
of music, and so were the Billings' boys,
and they used to go out together to play
for parties, and thus rendered some assist-
ance in obtaining a living, for we had left
our means in Kirtland.
	Early in the Spring of 1840 we went up
to Commerce, as the upper portion of the
city of Nauvoo continued to be called. We
rented a house belonging to Hiram Kim-
ball, whose widow and children are resi-
dents of this city. Here we were all sick
with ague, chills and fever, and were only
just barely able to crawl around and wait
upon each other. Under these trying cir-
cumstances my ninth child was born. Jo-
seph, upon visiting us and seeing our
change of circumstances, urged us at once
to come and share his accommodations. We
felt the climate, the water, and the priva-
tions we were enduring could not much
longer be borne; therefore we availed our-
selves of this proposal and went to live in
the Prophet Joseph's yard in a small cot-
tage; we soon recruited in health, and the
children became more like themselves.
My husband was employed in a store Joseph
had built and fitted up with such goods as
the people were in actual need of.
	One day while coming out of the house
into the yard the remembrance of a proph-
ecy Joseph Smith had made to me, while
living in our house in Kirtland, flashed
through my mind like an electric shock;
it was this: that even as we had done by
him, in opening our doors to him and his
family when he was without a home; even
so should we in the future be received by
him into his house. We afterwards moved
up stairs over the brick store, as it was des-
ignated. It was during our residence in
the brick store that the Relief Society was
organized, March 17, 1842, and I was chos-
en Counselor to the President of the Soci-
ety, Mrs. Emma Smith. In this work I
took the greatest interest, for I realized in
some degree its importance, and the need
of such an organization. I was also or-
dained and set apart under the hand of
Joseph Smith the Prophet to administer to
the sick and comfort the sorrowful. Sev-
eral other sisters were also ordained and
set apart to administer in these holy ordi-
nances. The Relief Society then was
small compared to its numbers now, but

[Column 3]
the Prophet foretold great things concern-
ing the future of this organization, many
of which I have lived to see fulfilled; but
there are many things which yet remain to
to be fulfilled in the future of which he
prophesied, that are great and glorious;
and I rejoice in the contemplation of these
things daily, feeling that the promises are
sure to be verified in the future as they
have been in the past. I trust the sisters
who are now laboring in the interest of
Relief Societies in Zion realize the import-
ance attached to the work, and comprehend
that upon them a great responsibility rests
as mothers in Israel. President Joseph
Smith had great faith in the sisters' labors,
and ever sought to encourage them in the
performance of the duties which pertained
to these Societies, which he said were not
only for benevolent purposes and spiritual
improvement, but were actually to save
souls. And my testimony to my sisters is
that I have seen many demonstrations of
the power and blessing of God through the
administration of the sisters, but they
should be ever humble, for through great
humility comes the blessing. The Lord re-
members His daughters and owns and ac-
knowledges, in a perceptible manner, those
who are striving to be faithful. I could
say much to my sisters on this subject, for
it is one in which I am deeply interested.
I have been a living witness to the trials,
sacrifices, patience and endurance of thou-
sands of them, and my heart goes out to all
those who are seeking to walk the narrow
way and keep fast hold of the iron rod.
The Father has great blessings in store for
His daughters; fear not, my sisters; but
trust in God, live your religion and teach
it to your children.

To be continued.


ESTIMATING MEASURES.

	It is often useful to have a few approxi-
mate data to deduce weights and measures
from. Here is a corrected table, which,
however, does not aim at great accuracy,
but may serve to make a rough estimate
when it is necessary to reduce measures:
	"A pint of water weighs nearly one pound
and is equal to about twenty-seven cubic
inches, or a square-box three inches long,
three inches wide, and three inches deep.
	A quart of water weighs nearly two
pounds, and is equal to a square box of
about four by four inches and three and
one-half inches deep.
	A gallon of water weighs from eight to
ten pounds, according to the size of the
gallon, and is equal to a box six by six
inches square, and six, seven, or seven and
a half inches deep.
	A cubic foot of water weighs nearly six[-]y-
three pounds (more correctly sixty-two and
a half pounds) and contains from seven to
eight gallons, according to the kind of gal-
lons used.
	A peck is equal to a box eight by eight
square and eight inches deep.
	A bushel almost fills a box twelve by
twelve inches square and twenty-four
inches deep, or two cubic feet.
	A barrel of water almost fills a box two
by two feet square and one and a half feet
deep, or six cubic feet.
	Petroleum barrels contain forty gallons,
or nearly five cubic feet.—Manufacturer
and Builder.


THE future destiny of a child is always
the work of the mother.


92		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Pablished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. NOV. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

THE NEW CRUSADE.

THERE is much agitation at the present time
here in Utah, on the subject of plural marriage.
Those who oppose it are seeking to strengthen
their forces and sound a loud trump of alarm
all over the United States, calling upon all
Christian men and women to join them in
rooting up this terrible growing evil, which
Mormons have dared to plant on American
soil.
	When men and women enter upon a crusade
it should be with sober thought and mature
reflection. No wise man or woman can say to
the contrary. These opposers of Mormon prin-
ciples feel that they are outraged by the prac-
tice which they so loathe and abhor, and they
have risen up in their might now to wipe out
from the face of this fair land the monster—
	What proof have they that God is displeased
with this principle, or its practice? If they are
the followers of Christ they want God on their
side. "Man proposes but God disposes" is one
of the truisms which daily experience attests
to. This people called, or mis-called Mormons,
came here to this desert land a mere handful as
it were, a band of: tugitives, compelled to brave
the perils of the wilderness, or renounce their
peculiar faith. They had no wealth, scarce
the bare necessities of life; to repeat the story
of their poverty and hardships all bravely en-
dured for the sake of their faith, were only to
harrow up in thousands of hearts, griefs and
miseries now buried in the archives of the
past; but the Lord has blessed this people in
these valleys far-away from civilization, and
they have increased in numbers; and prosperity
has crowned the labors of their hands and brain.
Through their industry and diligence
many have been brought from foreign
lands, when the hand of the oppressor
is heavy upon the poor, to "America
the home of the free and the brave." Has any
other people the same record? No! During all
these years the Latter-day Saints have con-
tinued in the practise of plural marriage? And
where are the proofs of the Almighty's displea-
sure? Has He not visibly interposed in be-
half of this people when famine and war stared
them in the face? If the people were so wicked,
it is strange that God should have so wonder-
fully prospered their efforts to build up and
make pleasant the waste places, until the stran-
ger marvels at the success of this poor, outcast,
despised people.
	Do you realize, you who are so loud in de-
nouncing the institutions of the Mormons, that
it is just possible that God may have spoken to
this people, and if so what are you doing?
Weigh well the consequences and think whe-
ther you are prepared to answer for all the mis-
ery and suffering you are invoking upon a
peaceful, happy people who feel they are con-
scientiously living in obedience to a divine law.

[Column 2]
O, Christian women, let it not be said of you,
that you violate the sacred law of human
kindness, by aiding or abetting in a crusade
against your Mormon sisters. Many of those
engaged in the crusade have once been mem-
bers of the same fraternity—they have borne
strong testimonies to the truth of the Gospel,
and the graves of those they loved are here in
Zion; their relatives and friends who died in
the faith, against which they are now arrayed.
	Why should you seek to oppress, or make
more heavy the burdens of life for any sister,
or brother? Who constituted you judges? You
worship God here in freedom and seek to ad-
vance your own individual religions interests;
does anybody coerce you, or hinder you in the
free exercise of social or religious freedom? Why
do you desire to re-model Mormon society?
Have you a system or code of social laws to in-
troduce that will dry up the fountains of
iniquity in the world? If you have
then indeed your mission is an
essential and timely one, and God speed such
a work. The Mormons are in their way solv-
ing, a problem, you may call it experimenting,
it is God's method, and one that has been intr[-]-
duced in other ages of the world. The Lord
says "He delights in the chastity of women,"
have you some balm to offer for the woes of
those outraged and oppressed by men; some
sure path by which they may return into the
presence of their Creator, if you have, then
help them, for they are sorely in need of succor.
The wrongs of women betrayed and abandoned
are crying from the thousand cities of the
world. The crimes of which these poor de-
fenceless women are accused, are crimes which
must be answered before God by their pitiless
seducers and betrayers. Ask Congress to make,
or devise some method by which women may
be protected and avenged for wrongs com-
mitted against their most sacred feelings,
their virtue and their honor; beseech
them to provide for the neglected
progeny which swarm the cities of the
United States, and growing up in infamy and
crime are filling the prisons with criminals.
	The desire of the marital relationship be-
tween man and woman is for the perpetuation
of their own existences in posterity. This is
lawful and proper, and with this God is pleased
and thus has he commanded, "Multiply and re-
plenish the earth." But what is the condition
of the world to-day? Every one acquainted
with statistics of crime knows that all sorts of
unholy means are being used to destroy instead
of propagate human life. These are the things
that demand attention. These are the evils of
modern society, not plural marriage. Here is
labor for the million; lift up the fallen, com-
fort the sorrowing, and let Mormon women
alone; for rest assured they know how to take
care of themselves and their children, born
in holy covenants.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT JOSEPH Young, Sen., has lately
issued a neat little pamphlet of sixteen pages,
entitled "History of the Organization of the
Seventies." It is "embellished with a likeness
of Joseph Smith the Prophet and a view of the
Kirtland Temple." It contains several items
of interest connected with the history of the
Church, and the "names of the Presidents and
Members of the First and Second Quorums of
Seventies, ordained under the hands of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his two Counselors,
Sidney Rigdon and Oliver Cowdery, on Feb.
28, 1835, in the town of Kirtland, Geauga Co.,
Ohio." Enoch and His City is the subject of
one Chapter. A very excellent article on

[Column 2]
"Vocal Music," and the book closes with a song
and chorus expressing something of the mis-
sion of the Elders in these last days.

	THE GENERAL Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
p. m., was one of considerable interest. There
was a goodly number of representative ladies
in the stand and on the platform. Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. There were present
by invitation Miss Losee, Vice-President of the
National Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, and her co-worker in her labors Mrs.
Langdon; these two ladies are from New York
City; Rev. Mrs. McEldowny of Salt Lake City
was also present. After the exercises of sing
ing, prayer, minntes. of the previous meeting
and minutes of Junior Associations were over,
Miss Mary Freeze, a little girl about eleven
years of age, read the minutes of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward. This is
quite a new feature of interest in these meet-
ings. Mrs. President Horne then arose and
presented the subject of Plural Marriage, that
being a topic much ventilated at the present
time by those who oppose it. She then pro-
ceeded to make some remarks upon the subject
herself, giving her ideas, and items of her own
experience in general terms, bearing a strong
testimony to its truth. The subject was fol-
lowed out by Mrs. Zina D. Young and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who each after her own manner spoke
at some length on the subject, giving items of
experiences in the Church, remniscences from
the earlier days and times of poverty and wan-
derings of the Saints, also of the oppression
and persecution this people had suffered for
the sake of their religion; of the glorious fu-
ture there was in store for those who remained
faithful.
	Mrs. Pres. Horne then invited the strangers
present to speak; Miss Losee responded in a
few words, as the time was far advanced. She
said she was here in the interest of the Na-
tional Woman's Christian Temperance Union,
to labor for the interests of Temperance, and
would lecture on Thursday, the 14th, at 3
o'clock p. m., at Independence Hall. After-
wards the congregation arose and sung part of
the hymn "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Prayer by Coun. E. Howard.
	MASS MEETING,—A mass meeting of the
women of Utah is called to convene at the
Theatre, Salt Lake City, Saturday, Nov. 16, at
2 p. m., to protest against the misrepresenta-
tion and falsehood now being circulated, with
a view to arouse public indignation against our
people; and to declare our sentiments upon the
subjects at present being agitated. A general
attendance of all women interested is desired.

					ZINA D. YOUNG,
					M. ISABELLA HORNE,
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	THE ANNUAL Grain meeting, which was to
be held on Saturday, Nov. 16, is postponed until
Saturday, 23, on account of the Mass Meeting
in the Theatre. This will give the sisters a
little more time to make out their reports, and
we hope to hear from all parts of the Territory
about grain and granaries.


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

								FEB. 8, 1878.
DEAR SISTER: C—:
	My husba[-]d tells me you would be pleased
to receive a letter from me, if I felt like writ-
ing to you. I assure you I felt the same
towards you, but hearing you were very ill, I
knew you could not write so thought I would
send you a few lines. I sincerely hope you are


better, and will continue to improve until you
regain perfect health; for all the wealth and
all the pleasure that can be obtained in this
world cannot be enjoyed without health. The
past few months you have had to meet things
calculated to try, harass and perplex you, but
then you know there is a promise to all those
who put their trust in God, and that is this:
"As thy day is, so shall thy strength be." We
know that this promise is true, for we have
proved it; therefore it gives us confidence to
trust in Him Who has said not one hair of our
head shall fall unnoticed by His all-seeing eye.
I wish I could see you, for there are many
things I would like to talk about that I hardly
know how to put in writing.
	Dear sister, what shall I say to give you one
word of comfort in your separation from M—?
I will not say in your loss of her, for that would
not be correct, for you are not losing her; she
is only leaving your home in exchange for
one of her own, thereby gaining instead of
losing one. You and I with many more thou-
sands before us have trod in the same path,
and although we may have thought we could
not love any one better than father and mother
(nor can we in that sacred, holy love with
which we enshrine these dear ones, and more
especially when they are gone to rest and we
cannot see or hear them), but as time rolls
along there is a call, one that has been im-
planted in our natures by our Heavenly Parents
for a great and wise purpose, and a nearer and
closer tie bids us leave the home of our child-
hood. Is it to sever the tie between parents
and children? No! verily no! but to fulfill the
great command of God, and to form new ties
of our own as links in the chain that shall
bind family to family, friends to friends, till
the great chain is completed, link by link, and
we are united in one eternal bond, as one great
family in that of our great Father and God.
	Before I conclude my letter I will say that
you shall have my prayers, that you may have
strength to bear your separation; and may God
bless you. And I would ask for your faith and
prayers, that we may be worthy the trust com-
mitted to our charge; I say charge, because I
know that much depends on the woman as
well as the man. And may the bond of love
and friendship increase between us every year
that we live. Give my love to M—— and all
your family, and accept much for yourself.
	From your friend and sister,
								R. F. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


[Column 1]
ANTI-POLYGAMY MEETING.

	A meeting of ladies opposed to plural mar-
riage was held in the Independence Hall in
this city Nov. 7, the object being to take ac-
tive measures to arouse public sentiment
against its practice, and to memorialize Con-
gress to make effective the Anti-Polygamy law
of 1862. The meeting was called to order by
Mrs. M. M. Bane; Mrs. S. A. Cook was chosen
Chairman, and Mrs. M. M. Bane, Secretary.
Mrs. Bane in a dignified and business-like
manner stated the object of the meeting. She
informed the audience, also, that a preliminary
meeting had previously been held and a com-
mittee appointed to draft resolutions and mark
out a direct course of action. The meeting
was mostly devoted to business, though some
sentiments were expressed by those who took
part in the proceedings relative to the utter
horror and disg[-]st they felt on the subject of
plural marriage. The contagion was in the
air, and so forth, and we could not help feeling
that in all the wide world there might possi-
bly be a place more genial to them, and if they

[Column 2]
were so thoroughly disgusted with the social
relation here, they would perhaps be able to
breathe more freely somewhere else. Miss
Losee, the Vice-President of the National
Woman's Christian Temperance Union, made
a short speech, and expressed herself very
forcibly in regard to plural marriage, etc. But
as Mi[-]s Losee is a good Christian, and believes
in the Scriptures, we would advise her to cease
quoting from the Old Testament, as the women
mentioned there were nearly all in plural mar-
riage, and Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses and
all the old prophets, chosen men of God, were
all polygamists. It is a wonder that our Chris-
tian friends are not contaminated by having
the Old Testament in their houses. But like
many of the wise and learned of the world
these ladies know how to tear down society, but
can they build up, have they a better way? If
so, will they be charitable and show it to us?
Can they refer us to any of the Eastern cities
where society is in a better condition than
here in Salt Lake? Miss Reed read the address
we publish below, which speaks for itself, as
also does the circular to the clergy and the
memorial to Congress.

				AN ADDRESS.

	TERRITORY OF UTAH, SALT LAKE CITY,
						November 7th, 1878.

To Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes and the Women
	of the United States:

	It is more than 30 years since polygamy was
planted on the shores of Great Salt Lake. Dur-
ing these years, Congress has utterly failed to
enact efficient or enforce existing laws for the
abolition of this great crime, and we believe
that more of these unlawful and unhallowed
alliances have been consummated the past
year than ever before in the history of the
Mormon Church. The Endowment Houses,
under the name of Temples, are being erected
in different parts of the Territory, costing mil-
lions. It is impossible to ascertain the exact
number of polygamous marriages, for they are
consecrated in these Endowment Houses, an
institution no Gentile is permitted to enter,
and the brotherhood and sisterhood are sealed
and bound with oaths so strong that even apos-
tates will not reveal them, and to maintain
which witnesses on the witness stand unblush-
ingly perjure themselves and on the jury vio-
late all considerations of oath and duty. Con-
sidering all our surroundings, polygamy has
never taken such a degrading and debasing
form, in any nation or among any people, above
the condition of barbarians, as in Utah. It is
degrading to man and woman, a curse to chil-
dren, and destructive to the sacred relation of
family, upon which the civilization of nations
depends, and there are things that cannot be
repeated or printed that reduces the system to
the lowest form of indecency. That it should
be practiced in the name and under the cloak
of religion, that an apostle, a polygamist with
four acknowledged wives, is permitted to sit
in Congress, only adds to the enormity of the
crime and makes it more revolting to our com-
mon Christian principles.
	Our Legislature is composed almost entirely
of polygamists and members of the Mormon
priesthood, and they have thrown around
polygamy every possible legislative safe-guard
in their power; and the right of dower has been
abolished to break down the distinction between
the lawful wife and concubine.
	The Mormons are rapidly extending their
settlements into Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico
and Wyoming. They have the balance of
power in two territories, and are, without
doubt, plotting for it in others.

[Column 3]
	We call upon the Christian women of the
United States to join us in urging Congress to
empower its courts to arrest the further pro-
gress of this evil and to delay the admittance
of Utah into statehood until this is accom-
plished; and we ask you to circulate and pub-
lish our appeal in order to arouse public senti-
ment, which should be against an abomina-
tion that peculiarly oppresses and stigmatizes
woman. It is our purpose to ask names to a
petition designed for Congress, and we hope,
also, that every minister of the Gospel will
commend us to the women of his congregation,
and that all Christian associations will do what
they can to obtain signatures.
	With the cordial co-operation and concen-
trated action of the Christian women of our
land, we may confidently hope that the great
sin of polygamy may be abolished.
	It was explained as the intention to circulate
copies of the above address throughout all the
United States. The following petition was
then read, which is also to be scattered broad-
cast throughout the land and signatures there-
to solicited, the object of the petition being
embraced within itself.

				A MEMORIAL.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of
	the U. S. A.

	We, the undersigned, women of Utah, pray
your honorable body to enact such legislation
as will make effective the anti-polygamy law
of 1862.

	After the adoption of this, a circular letter
was read by Mrs. Col. Froiseth, which it is the
intention to send to every minister in the
United States, the letter to be accompanied by
copies of the address and petition. Here is the
letter:

	CIRCULAR LETTER TO THE CLERGY.

	Sir—At a mass meeting of the ladies of Salt
Lake City opposed to polygamy, held Novem-
7th, 1878, to take some action for its suppres-
sion, the enclosed address to Mrs. Hayes and
the women of the United States and form of
petition were ad[-]pted. A committee was then
appointed to distribute the address and petition,
and instructed to forward it to every clergy-
man, or other person likely to feel an interest
in the movement, in the United States, with
an urgent request that he read the address, or
cause it to be read to his people and have the
petition presented among the ladies for signa-
tures, the same, upon being signed to be given
to the member of your congressional district
for presentation to Congress. In accordance
with its instructions the committee enclose a
copy of the address and petition to you and
earnestly request you to present them as above
suggested, and with as little delay as possible,
the committee desiring the petitions to be pre-
sented to the coming session of Congress.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at the Sulphur Springs in Ogden
Cafion, Oct. 15th, 1878, of lung fever, after an
illness of five weeks, Miss Caroline Amanda
Winslow, aged 14 years, 2 months and 7 days,
beloved and only daughter of John H. and
Caroline Marchant Winslow, of Morgan City,
Morgan Co., U. T. Deceased was the Organist
for the Choir and a teacher in the North Mor-
gan Sunday School, and as such she was punc-
tual and ever ready to perform the duties as-
signed her. "Blessed are they that die in the
Lord."—[Millennial Star please copy.].


94		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
		"A" PEN PICTURE.

	BY ONE OF NATURE'S DAUGHTERS.

	Let us stand in this "gateway to the
Ocean," with our faces to the East to get
a good view of our picture, and with all
Nature welcome the king of day this beau-
tiful morning; with his smiles and kisses
for our sunny South. Now behold as grand
a scene as ever blessed the eye of art. The
grand old mountains, which almost sur-
round the valley, shall be the picture-frame.
This gateway is like a paved street leading
to the moss and shell enchanted shore of
the peaceful Pacific, fifty miles away, whose
soothing, invigorating breath fans into life
and strength the herbage on hill and plain,
which gives pasturage to numberless flocks
and herds that were once the only known
wealth of the "Golden State." But our
picture frame is not yet sufficiently admired.
That highest peak in the centre is 11,500
feet above the level of the sea. How like
a true monarch he wears his glittering
crown of ice and snow perpetually! And
see the bride-vail-like clouds of mist but
half screen his royal green mantle of pine,
laurel and hemlock! Look at the singing
brooklets come skipping and leaping from
cliff to precipice, bringing pure cold water
to the savage grizzly bear and California
lion, as well as the graceful antelope and
gentle deer, while the mountain dove and
lark keep time to the music they make. O
how glorious are the halls of Nature when
all her children bow in gratitude to the
Giver of every good!
	But let us turn to the works of man.
See the giant centennarian of the forest
tremble and fall by his power; how soon
the noble tree becomes lumber, ready to be
hauled to the valley for the uses of civiliza-
tion. And the gold, marble, granite, and
diamond splendor, acknowledging the sun's
mighty power, is also fast being called into
usefulness by the talent and energy of man.
Now let the eye rest half way down the
mountain side, at the curious springs of
hot, warm and cold water, whose medical
virtues are far-famed; also the extensive
apiaries, where the industrious bee thrives
wonderfully, often filling caves and crevices
in the rocks with the sweet food they
gather from wild shrubs, vines and flowers
nearly all the year.
	But to awaken some fine bright morning
up there and look down on the valley when
enshrouded in fog, causes the most lone-
some feelings; were it not so romantic one
would become sad to view a Phantom-sea,
who's restless waves seem dashing, fretting,
and worrying some fated object beneath
their feathery surface, where reason and
knowledge tell us happy homes and lovely
scenery fill every nook of a beautiful ever-
green valley.
	Now let us look at the oldest marks of
civilization—the ruins of the "Old Mis-
sion," San Bernardine; 'tis but an old
adobie wall now, but could it speak of the
past hundred years, what tales of joy, sor-
row, love and hate we should listen to.
Beautiful orange groves now shade the last
resting place of the once brave warrior and
his dusky mate, once the wild free children
of the deserts, who were tamed and taught
to bow the knee and worship "Our Father
in Heaven," by the Spanish Priests, or
Catholic Fathers. And though lovely gar-
dens of ever-blooming flowers and vast
vineyards hide all the old landmarks and
trails of the Indian, tradition tells of the

[Column 2]
great good works done by the Old Missions.
There are yet some few in this part of the
State whose old rusty-tongued bells call the
faithful to late and early prayers, and as we
listen we seem to hear the gentle zephyrs
whispering and sighing among the fruit
and foliage of the olive, fig and palm, over
the purity and simplicity of the past of this
much-favored spot, which is nearly lost by
the progress of civilization. The "Steam
horse" and fancy phaeton now take the
places of the low, wooden-wheeled cart and
half-tamed ox, with yoke lashed with raw-
hide across his horns. The hollow, old-
fashioned STONE is seldom seen where good
flour mills are almost in sound of every
ranchero. The magic wire brings the news
of the day from the ends of the earth, and
the swift-footed messenger of the long ago
can lounge in the shade of "his own vine
and fig tree." The iron band binds us with
our sister counties, states and countries.
The Church steeple and Court House dome
tower above the graceful shade trees, and
help to remind us where we can seek truth
and justice. Here Old Winter is feeble
and lazy, with lungs too weak to blow the
laughing leaves off the tired, willing stem;
and though his head is green and brown
instead of white, he has not power to bid
the sweet flowers and noisy birds go to
sleep, and so they bud on in sweetness and
sing on in beauteous bowers, in harmony
with the hundreds of artesian fountains
which dance in musical gratitude for the
blessings of sunlight. And when the
young prince, Spring, takes the green crown
from Winter's brow, he rules but imper-
fectly, for the changeful face of Nature, all
tears and smiles at the same time, bewilders
his inexperienced brain, until the gay,
cheerful Queen Summer lends her assist-
ance, and with her mighty power of endur-
ance and industry, the golden grain fields
and bending orchards soon cause the bloom-
ing Queen to realize that her season of
power is over and she must resign the
reins of government into the hands of the
mature matron, Autumn, whose trium-
phant exaltation of gladness is celebrated
with the music of the horns of plenty,
which sound a joyous jubilee of gratitude
to the great Monarch of Nature's kingdom,
and Giver of all good; and though showers
of sadness darken the only void in the re-
gretful heart, the rainbow of hope prom-
ises a reward, and gives a cheering encour-
agement through every storm. For God is
"our merciful Father" to all the life, light
and goodness in this beautiful world.
							M. O. K.


[Column 1]
BEECHER ON GREENBACKS.

	The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher opened
the course of lectures, and entertainments
at the North Avenue Congregational
Church, Cambridge, last evening. His sub-
ject was "The Reign of the Common Peo-
ple," and the purpose was to show the
changes which the general spread of intel-
ligence has wrought in human thought and 
in the relations of men toward one another
and toward governments. Speaking of the
popular delusions which are now engross-
ing the public mind, he said that there was
none which would fade away sooner than
that which the greenback represents. Con-
tinuing on the same subject he said:—
	The idea that a government can create
money by simply stamping paper or leather
is a theory which may live for a day or two
or a season, but if there ever was anything
that would cure itself, that will. I am not
afraid of its ultimate results. I know that

[Column 2]
the people say boldly that it is the govern-
ment that determines the currency. What
is the currency? It is the means by which
a man can exchange one thing for another.
I cannot cut off the corner of my barn and
buy a pound of snuff. I cannot carry
around anything so bulky as an ox. I have
got to have something by which I can ex-
change one kind of property for another.
What should you select? You don't need
to select anything at all; you might as well
talk about selecting the kind of atmosphere
in which we shall live. There is one thing
about which the nations agree, and I don't 
know that they ever agreed on anything
else. There is one thing upon which they
are singularly united, upon which they
stand together, and have stood together for
5,000 years, and that is that gold and silver
shall be the medium by which property
shall be represented and exchanged. It is
not a question which has been determined
by governments at all. All the govern-
ments on earth might pass an edict that
gold shall not represent property and it 
will not make the least difference; or that
paper shall, and it would not make the 
least difference. It is one of those things
which have been determined by the suc-
cessive experiences of nations. For more
than five thousand years we have the ac-
tual record of the proportional value be-
tween gold and silver, varying a little with
time, but still about the same. Down
through thousands of years gold and silver
have been the same. Gold is gold every-
where. Five dollars in gold is the same
everywhere, and the man who has gold in
his hand can go anywhere and exchange it
for property.
	Paper is nothing but a representative of 
gold, used for the sake of convenience, as
property is too bulky for exchange. But
paper is nothing but a representative of
gold and silver, and it is just as good as
they are when it can command them; and 
it is good for nothing when it cannot. Cor-
nelius Vanderbilt went down to the bank
one day with a piece of paper in his fingers,
and he didn't seem to make much of it.
But it was a check for $3,000,000, the larg-
est that had ever been passed there. If he
had tried to pay the same amount in gold
he would have found it a pretty hard job to
carry it. Gold weighs a ton and a half to
$1,000,000, so that he would have had to 
carry nearly five tons. When commerce is
comparatively small gold and silver can be
transported from place to place, and are
convenient; but when commerce extends
it cannot be used conveniently. Suppose a
man in New York wants to pay half a mil-
lion dollars to a man in New Orleans. I
don't want to be suspicious, but I think
there are at least ten men between New
York and New Orleans who would steal it
if they got the chance. Silver weighs
thirteen tons to 1,000,000. They can be
easily handled in small transactions, but in
large ones we have paper as a commercial
contrivance. But your paper is good for
what you can exchange it for. If you can
exchange it for a house or a farm, it is good
for that. If it cannot be exchanged for
property, or for gold or for silver, what is it
good for? All gold and silver represent
property, all paper represents gold, or, silver,
and it ought to represent them definitely.
If you print a five dollar bill you must be
definite about what it represents, wheat, or 
cloth or gold. But it is merely five dollars,
and you offer it to a man and he says he
will not pay gold or silver for it, or you
offer it to the government and it says it will
not pay gold or silver for it, then its face


value goes down.  Why cannot the govern-
ment make paper money?  Because it can
do with a reality what it cannot do with a
sham. Government only regulates exist-
ing values, and in the case of paper it is
proposed not to regulate value but to give
it a value.  There is no government on
God's earth that can give value to paper.
They can say that paper shall be equivalent
to gold and redeemed in it; but no govern-
ment on earth can say that zero means
something.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NEAR FUTURE.

	The scenes witnessed at Worcester dur-
ing the last week are significant.  The
time was when such displays would have
been impossible in this good old common-
wealth.  But our population is fast chang-
ing, and with the change of population has
come the change in manners and morals.
The class that dominated at Worcester
lately is likely at no very distant day to be
the ruling class in this State.  The power
which has been held by the honest yeomen
of the rural districts ever since the old
colonial days has passed into the hands of
the cities, and the cities are fast coming
into the control of the foreign masses that
are ruled and governed by a foreign priest-
hood.  The cities will rule the State in less
than ten years.  Who rule the cities now?
Who will rule the cities in ten years?  Ana-
lyze the vote of Boston for the answer.
Walk through Fall River, Lowell and Wor-
cester for the answer.  The foreign ele-
ments, combined with the irresponsible
part of the native population, will soon
have political supremacy.  They will rule
the cities.  Already it would be impossible
to elect a temperance man as may or of Bos-
ton.  No man go to the city hall unless he
is satisfactory to the liquor dealers and, a
considerable fraction of the criminal class.
Mayor Stott lost his election in Lowell be-
cause he was a temperance man.  If Mayor
Lindsey is re-elected in Fall River it will
be because he is satisfactory to the liquour
people.  All this kind of thing is signifi-
cant.  It opens to us a view of the future.
It tells us what we are sure to have when
the present order of things has ripened
more fully.  The vote on the Prohibitory
Bill last winter shows how things are work-
ing.  On that bill the vote was as follows:
Full vote............................................211.
For the bill..........................................93.
Against it...........................................118.
Absent.................................................29.
	The cities gave 77 votes against and 26
votes for the bill.  The towns gave 67 for
and 41 against it.  The vote of Boston was
38, against and 5 for it.  It is easy to see
where the trouble lies, and as easy to fore-
tell what the future is to be.  Self-preser-
vation requires a union of all the moral
and respectable elements, irrespective of
party lines. In city and State matters
party politics amount to little.  We may
not be near enough to the millennium to
expect an abandonment of party just yet;
but we must come to it soon, or this old
commonwealth will be ruled by the crimi-
nal classes of our cities.  There was a time
when George N. Briggs could be elected
Governor of Massachusetts.  It is doubtful
whether a man of his pure life, splendid
character and high moral views, could se-
cure an election now.  Christian patriotism
has something to do to watch the signs of
the times.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	UPPER KANAB, Oct. 18, 1878.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have recently returned from a visit of
a month's duration to our Dixie; the cli-
mate there at this season is delightful.
	I enjoy myself excellently well when
circumstances are such that I can be liber-
ated for a time from our ranche home, in
visiting among the Saints and attending
the meetings of the sisters both old and
young. In my opinion, a great lack is
visible on the part of many mothers in re-
gard to the young.  Many of us surely can-
not realize the responsibilities that rest up-
on us, nor the bearing our influence has
upon our children for good or evil, or we
would shape our lives differently.  Every
mother in Zion should take and carfully
read the EXPONENT. October 1st is at
hand; "Women as Educators," "Woman's
Love," and "Memory and Observation" are
worth the price of the paper.  Extracts
from the teachings of Sister E. R. Snow
and other faithful workers are invaluable.
A vast amount of good is being done by
the EXPONENT.
	God bless you in your untiring zeal for
the welfare of Zion.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	E. B. COLEMAN.

	GARDEN CITY, RICH CO.,
	Oct. 13, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have a most beautiful place here,
with an excellent view of the beautiful
Bear Lake; our city is situated on a rolling
plain, with the gently sloping hills sur-
rounding it on the south, west and north,
with a plenty of fine grass for stock.  Our
place is newly settled with about twenty
families, mostly young people.  The boys
have been energetic in getting out the
water; they have made a ditch about six
miles in length.  Some of those who moved
in last year have raised beautiful crops of
wheat, oats, corn, potatoes, cabbages, mel-
ons, cucumbers, squashes, pumpkins, and
almost every variety of vegetables and
garden plants that can be mentioned, and
we hope  the blessings of the Lord to
raise a plenty of fruit in a few years; Pres.
Rich says we shall if we are faithful.
	We have no Bishop here yet, we have a
Priest to take charge of the place; I hope
we will have the privilege of being organ-
ized into a branch, so we can have meet-
ings regularly.  And I hope we may have
a Relief Society; I have been a member of
one for ten years, and always loved our Re-
lief Society meetings in St. Charles; now
I miss them very much. It was also a 
member of the Y. L. M. I. A, and of the
Sabbath School.  Perhaps you can imagine
my lonely feelings in being absent from all
of those dear associations.  We hold meet-
ings once in a while, the Sabbath day seems
very long and lonely without them.
	We have a Post Office established here
now, and I hope to get my papers regu-
larly.  The EXPONENT is every a very wel-
come guest.  If every woman loved to
read it as well as I do, they would not
be without it; it helps to pass the Sabbath
day very pleasantly.
	May our Heavenly Father bless every
undertaking of the sisters in righteousness
is my desire.
	Your sister laborer in the covenant of
Christ,	PHEBE.


SHAKESPEARE'S WOMEN AT LOW'S
	OPERA HOUSE.

	During three days of the past week some
of them trod that stage.  Have they not
"touched us to finer issues" of thought and
feeling?
	For Portia came, with no self-seeking in
her great heart, with so little prejudice in
her clear brain that it certainly was not dis-
coverable by the most critical auditor.
	The master-poet knew, three hundred
years ago, how to draw the portraits of wo-
men, good and evil.  There the world has
learned to re-kindle its faith in the ideal;
there, too, it has studied the dangers that
beset the nature of woman and of man.
	The types are perpetual; else Shakspeare
would scarcely have copied them. The
women can always be found, if the search
be long enough:
	We are simply remarking that Portia's
sweet eloquence in behalf of justice. Isa-
bella's deep wisdom, and Rosalind's grace-
ful wit, fell freely upon our ears last week.
	One had the pleasant consciousness that
these ladies were not masquerading but
that out of the fulness of their hearts, of
their experience, of their insight, they
were speaking precious words of counsel.
	Of course Shakspeare did not define in
detail the tasks to which his women would
be called, as the centuries should unfold;
but with firm and delicate hand he showed
the capabilities that they possess.
	Portia, indeed, never read a paper upon
"Dress" before any Congress that we know
about, nor did she in her youth discover a
comet. Shakspeare does not predict that
after her head should be brilliant with a
crown of silver hair, she would delight a
large assembly by recounting her experi-
ences in watching an eclipse through a tele-
scope.  But had Portia's training and sur-
roundings been different, she would have
been very likely to do one of these things.
	As for Rosalind and Beatrice, theirs is
the wit that again and again "charms our
pained steps over the burning marl."
	Fortunately their light is never long
missing from any pilgrimage.
	And the heart of Cordelia, thank Hea-
van! beats near us whoever we are and
wherever we dwell.
	But it is inspiring to feel the combined
influence of these gifts and graces.  It is a
privilege to learn so many helpful lessons
at one time.
	It is true that the payment of an annual
fee, the endorsement of a member, and an
assent to the societies constitution, are not
sufficient talismans to enable a person to
immediately don all the virtues and doff all
the faults of womankind; but when we
consider the general tone of the sixth Con-
gress of women, we surely have cause for
satisfaction in the widening opportunities
which the Portias of every century find in
the wise and generous purposes which they
make those opportunities subserve.—Provi-
dence Journal.


IF self be denied for the good of others,
we receive immeasurably more than we be-
stow; we have as many fountains of happi-
ness as there are hearts and lives to whose
happiness we minister.
	KNOWLEDGE is a treasure at once price-
less and imperishable.  Strive above all
things to be rich in knowledge.  You get
more than the value of whatever you give
in exchange for learning.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

Exposure of Children to Cold.—We should say
that no child too young to walk or run should be
taken out when the external temperature is below,
fifty-eight degrees; that the rooms in which they
live and sleep should never be below fifty-eight
degrees and the day room should be three or four
degrees warmer. The practice of wheeling chil-
dren about in perambulators, sitting, or reclining
in one position without exercise, is particularly
harmful. We would earnestly appeal to mothers
to put aside all feelings of vanity, or what is
sometimes miscalled natural pride, and cover the
arms, neck and legs of their children as a simple
sanitary precaution. High frocks, long sleeves
and warm stockings should be worn out of doors;
hats which cover the head, and boots which keep
the feet as dry and warm as possible. On coming
in from our streets, nearly always damp, both
boots and stockings should be changed; and, if
the feet be cold, a warm foot-bath should be used
for a few minutes: The exquisite pain of chil-
blains could be saved to many children by this use
of hot water for hands and feet. We see that
flannel has yielded to merino, chiefly on account
of the greater convenience of ready-made under-
clothing; but there is nothing qual to flannel in
the property of preserving warmth.—British
Medical Journal.


TREES AND RAINFALL.—From some ob-
servations by M. Fautrat relative to the
comparatlve influence of leafy woods and
resinous woods on rain and the hygromet-
ric slate of the air, it appears that pine for-
ests have a much greater influence on the
hygrometric state than others; so that if the
vapors dissolved in the air were apparent
like frogs, we should see forests shrouded
in a large screen of moisture, and in the
case of resinous woods the envelope would
be more pronounced than in that of leafy
woods.  M. Fautrat also shows that pines
retain in their branches more than half of
the water which is poured upon them;
whereas leafy trees allow fifty eight per
centum of the precipitated water to reach
the surface of the ground. He suggests,
therefore, that in planting with a view to
oppose inundations, it would be advisable
to choose by preference resinous trees, as
offering a better covert.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't. Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab[-]e quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

New Goods-for-the-Fall-and Winter 1878,

AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain [-]LANNELS;
just received from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

[Column 2]
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

THEL AMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET.
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
	MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT 
TEASDEL'S

MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old, Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying le[-]ters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition.  No charge for explaining
their uses.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attent[-]n given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, Old Constitution Buildings, Opposite
Z.C.M.I.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between South
and 1st South Streets.
	Spec[-]al attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

TUNNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P O. BOX 1089.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to 
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of 
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes.  Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes.  Country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to vist our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

DRIED APRICOTS.

THE HIGHEST MARKET PRICE
PAID AT
TEASDEL'S.

	Delivery Wagons will call, by leaving the Address
at Store.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY [-]OODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 1, 1878.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.
			TO BOYSY.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

O Boysy, I love thee, and yet we must part,
Dear Pet of the Household, all linked to my hea[--]
And a cycle of Time must revolve ere we meet,
With embraces and kisses each other to greet.

But we never shall meet as we have met, again,
When I was your refuge in joy or in pain,
To boyhood, from babyhood, then you'll have grown,
I shall feel quite unable my Boysy to own.

I shall often recall all your sweet winning ways
Since I gazed on your face as an infant of days,
And I've seen you expand as a rose on a stem,
In beauties I never shall witness again!

No, you never can be all you have been to me,
That sweet phase of life is now no more to be;
You'll have grown, and outgrown all the pure infant love
That you lavished upon me as wealth from above.

It ever is thus! how we grow and outgrow
All that once made life dear, both in joy and in woe!
But the cycles of Time revolve over our head,
And much that we once loved is distant, or dead!

Come kiss me, my loved one—yes, kiss me again,
My heart is full heavy—my love is a pain;
The love all so pure that you gave unto me
You'll outgrow as your babyhood passes from thee.

Is it weakness to mourn o'er the love of a child?
A baby of years? Is it simple and wild?
I know not, I care not, all I feel at this time,
Is the thought that he's gone! and can no more be mine

I thought that in this way I never again
Should suffer my love to work into a pain,
But I find I must love, yes, love on to the end,
For Love is of God, and the poor Mortal's friend.

God keep you, my sweet one! I see thee depart,
But I know I shall live in that fond little heart,
Till the wing of old Time overshadows the view,
Then 'twill seem like a dream both to me and to you!

So passes the lives of the beings of earth—
Shade and sunshine flit o'er them from earliest birth;
But keep the heart young, and love on to the end,
For Love is of God, and the poor Mortal's friend.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 11, 1878.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S MASS MEETING.

		THEATRE, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Pursuant to a call published in our last
issue, a mass meeting of the women of this 
city convened in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Saturday, Nov. 16th, at 2 o'clock p.m., to 
protest against the interference of the Anti-
Polygamy crusade with their rights and
privileges as American citizens. The large
and commodious building, which will ac-
commodate 2,000 people, was crowded in
every part except the third circle, and even
that was mostly filled. There must have
been at least 1,500 ladies. It was an inspir-
ing spectacle to gaze upon; such an one as
is seldom seen. No gentlemen were ad-
mitted except reporters. Elder George F.
Gibbs, shorthand reporter, was on the plat-
form by special request, to make a full and
complete report of the proceedings. Re-
porters from the Deseret News, Salt Lake
Herald, Salt Lake Tribune and the Chicago
Inter-Ocean were on the platform; also
many other newspaper people, among whom
were Judge Tilford, Mr. Hollister and Mr.
Lockley, the others were strangers. Repre-
senative ladies of this city were upon the 
stand, to take part in the proceedings, and 
many veteran women, who have been true

[Column 2]
and faithful from the days of Kirtland, were
there to give their support to the action of 
the meeting and silently manifest their
approval.
	The assembly was called to order by Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and on motion of Mrs. E.B.
Wells, Miss Eliza R. Snow was elected
President; Mrs S. M. Kimball was chosen
Secretary, and Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron,
Assistant Secretary.
	The choir, led by Mrs. E. Thomas, Mrs.
Fannie Y. Thatcher, organist, then sang
"The Standard of Zion."
	Mrs. Prescindia Kimball offered the
opening prayer. Mrs. Kimball prayed that
wisdom might inspire those assembled to-
gether on this great and solemn occasion;
that everything might be done for the 
honor and glory of God. That as God's 
outstretched arm had carried his people
through many trials, He would be with
them now; that He would bless and pro-
tect them through all trials and tribula-
tions; that He would remember in mercy
this free country, the President of the
United States and its rulers; also the Gover-
nors of each State and Territory; that He
would bless our Delegate to Congress, who
was about to go to Washington; that He
would pour out His Holy Spirit upon him;
that He would uphold the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, which He had revealed in
these last days for the good of the human
family, notwithstanding the persecutions of
those who sought to overthrow it; that He
would strengthen Zion and bless the young
and rising generation, and bring peace into
the valleys of the mountains. She dedicat-
ed the congregation to the Lord, prayed
that angels might guard them in this hour of
trial; and hasten the time when Zion shall be
redeemed, and all shall be accomplished for 
the living and the dead, even back to the 
time when the priesthood was taken from
the earth.
	The choir sang, "Up, awake ye defenders
of Zion."
	On being called to the chair, Miss Eliza
R. Snow said:
Beloved Sisters and Friends:
	It now becomes my duty, as president
over this assembly, to state the object of
this meeting. As saints of the living God,
who have been persecuted and driven from
our homes from place to place, and now lo-
cated in the valleys of these mountains,
having been misrepresented from time to 
time, we claim the privilege, to-day, of
representing ourselves. As true and loyal
American citizens, we claim the right of
protection by that government under
which we live, and the free exercise of our
religious rights. It is for the sake of our
religion that we are located here; and inas-
much as we, the veritable women of Utah,
those who came here when this land and
soil belonged to Mexico, and who, through
our faith, prayers and indefatigable labors,
have assisted in reclaiming it—making it
habitable and beautiful—we claim that we
have, under God and under the glorious
constitution of our country, which has been 
bequethed to us by our forefathers, and 
which we believe to have been given by the 
inspiration of God through our noble pro-

[Column 3]
genitors, the sacred right to believe as we
please—to listen to the voice of God when
he speaks—to obey him by keeping those
commandments which he has delivered
unto us, knowing that he has spoken in
these last days by his own voice, by the 
voice of his well beloved Son, and by the 
voice of angels to him whom he raised up
prophet and seer, that He has gathered his
people together from the four quarters of
the earth, that He is establishing a govern-
ment upon the principles of purity, peace
and righteousness. We feel that it is our
right to worship God according to the dic-
tates of our own consciences, without fear
or molestation, under the protection of that
government which guarantees unto us the
right of conscience. And inasmuch as one
of the most important principles which God
has revealed, and which He requires of his
children to practice, has been assailed, we
have met to mutually express our views
upon this subject.
	Before the principle of plurality of wives
was known to be practiced by the Latter-
day Saints, we were driven, our prophet
and patriarch were vilely massacred, and 
not one of the perpetrators of the atrocious
deed has ever been brought to justice. We
have submitted to these wrongs, we have
suffered oppression, privation, hardships
and misrepresentation, and now we feel
that it is our right, and duty demands of us,
to express our sentiments.
	I am proud to state before this large and 
honorable assembly that I believe in the 
principle of plural marriage just as sacredly
as I believe in any other institution which
God has revealed. I believe it to be neces-
sary for the redemption of the human fam-
ily from the low state of corruption into 
which it has sunken. And I truly believe
that a congress composed of polygamic
men, who are true to their wives, would
confer a far higher honor upon a nation, and 
would perform better service to their coun-
try than a congress composed of monogam-
ic, unreliable husbands.
	Virtue is the foundation of the prosperity
of any nation; and this sacred principle of
plural maariage tends to virtue, purity, and
holiness. Those who represent the women
of Utah as ignorant and degraded, are
either aiming to bring evil upon us, or they
know not what they are doing. Although
I deprecate the false and odious representa-
tions of our condition, and the vilification
of our characters, I view with pity and 
commiseration those who have banded to-
gether in our midst, to work up a crusade
that is calculated and designed to subvert
and to sever the most sacred ties existing
between man and woman—to separate hus-
bands and wives, to put the reproach of bas-
tardy upon their children, and trample
upon the holiest affections of the human
heart. I say I look upon them with sym-
pathy and commiseration,  They are trying
to measure arms with the Almighty—they
know not what they do. Do I feel a spirit
of revenge towards them? No, my sisters,
I do not. They are in the hands of God,
and to him we submit all these matters.
Yet it is our duty, as far as we have the 
privilege, to plead our own cause, realizing
fully that it is better to represent ourselves


[Column 1]
than to be misrepresented, and leave ven-
geance unto God, who has said, "Vengeance
is mine, and I will repay." For this pur-
pose, my sisters, we have met together to
express our feelings and to plead our own
cause.
	The following address was then read by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith:
	It is somewhat surprising that we, who
are the true representatives of the women
of Utah, having, in connection with our
husbands, assisted in redeeming these once
desert valleys, should be called to assemble
to vindicate ourselves against misrepre-
sentations made by our Christian sisters,
those who have arrived here at so late a
date and for so different an object. We
were driven from our homes to seek refuge
somewhere else, for the testimony of Jesus
and the word of God. They know why they
are here. We came because we loved God
and the principles of righteousness, "count-
ing all things as dross for the excellency of
the knowledge of God," who had revealed
Himself in our day; hoping that far away
from a professed Christianity we might live
in peace and worship Him who had so
highly favored us, and live in accordance
with those principles which alone lead to
endless lives. As a legal citizen of this
great republic, I enter my most fervent pro-
test against this unlawful and unhallowed
crusade founded on misrepresentations.
Congress has no right to interfere with our
most sacred religion. As well might that
honorable body legislate against baptism by
immersion aa against plurality of wives.
God has revealed these principles, and they
must be sustained. With our own free con-
sent our husbands take more wives, and
when children crown our joy, around our
sacred family altars we bow the knee and
supplicate our Heavenly Father's blessing
on our household, and rejoice in his divine
favor as legitimate wives with honorable
children. We regard our husbands as men
of true virtue and integrity, who take
upon themselves so great a responsibility
in honoring the laws of God, and we bear
them up in our faith and secret prayers,
Let our sisters in the United States know
this, and instead of seeking special legisla-
tion to infringe upon our liberties, let them
rather take the honorable part and protect
us in our rights, and thus make for them-
selves a nobler record.
	Sister Zina D. Young delivered the fol-
lowing extemporaneous speech:
	The ladies of Utah, whose intelligent
faces I now look upon! Could I have had a
vision of so grand a spectacle 40 years ago,
when as a church, few in numbers, we were
struggling for an existence on the earth, I
question whether I then could have be-
lieved my eyes, nor could I then have
thought that God had prepared so great a 
blessing, that I should behold so goodly a
number of intelligent ladies who have had
the privilege of being baptized into Christ,
of putting on Christ, counting it no rob-
bery with God to be heirs and joint heirs
with his Son Jesus. It was for this pur-
pose you and I found a resting place in 
these valleys of the mountains, which, as
has been remarked, was not then United
States soil. The incidents of our coming
here in the manner we did—the fatigue,
the suffering from cold and hunger as well
as the heart-rending scenes through which
we passed, have often been penned. Bbt
Oh! none can realize them, or appreciate
fully our feelings when contemplating those
early experiences, but those who have
passed through them. Those scenes have

[Column 2]
passed; but we are sometimes reminded of
them; especially when croppings of the
same spirit are witnessed in those who op-
pose us in our rights, which prompted those 
who forced upon us our sufferings.
	The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I
beseech the earth to be still, and the brave
men who possess the spirit of a Washing-
ton to hear what I am about to say! I am
the daughter of a Master Mason! I am the
widow of a Master Mason, who when leap-
ing from the windows of Carthage jail
pierced with bullets, made the Masonic
sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (address-
ing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded
except by the God of heaven. That man,
the prophet of the Almighty, massacred
without mercy! He is now with those who
are crying, "Wait a little longer, until the 
blood of your brethren, the martyrs, is
shed." [Applause.] Sisters, this is the
first time in my life that I have dared to 
give utterance to this fact, but I thought I 
could trust my soul to say it on this occa-
sion, and I say it now in the fear of Israel's
God, and I say it in the presence of these
gentlemen, and I wish my voice could be
heard by the whole brotherhood of Masons
throughout our proud land. That instit[-]-
tion I honor. If its principles were prac-
tised and strictly adhered to, would there
be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be
intruded on with impunity? Nay verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with
the honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head;
would that the Congress of the United
States, the law-makers of our nation, could
produce a balm for the many evils which
exist in our land through the abuse of vir-
tue, or could so legislate that virtue could
be protected and cherished as the life which
heaven has given us! We, in common
with many a woman throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of 
such deliverance, for such is the deliver-
ance that woman needs.
	The principle of plural marriage is hon-
orable, it is a principle of the Gods—it is 
heaven-born. God revealed it to us, among
other things, as a saving principle; we
have accepted it as such, and we know it is
of him for the fruits of it are holy. Worthy
men and women of old practised it, even
the Savior himself traces his lineage back
to polygamic parents. We are proud of 
the principle because we understand its
true worth, and we want our children to 
practise it, that through us a race of men
and women may grow up possessing sound
minds in sound bodies, who shall "live to
the age of a tree."
	Some of the ladies who have so recently
come among us have thought fit to band to-
gether, for what? If they truly want to
benefit and bless their sex, let them direct
their labors among the many unfortunate
women of the towns and cities from whence
they came. They cannot help us. God
alone can do that. And we are already
blessed with comfortable and happy homes,
with rights and privileges which they can
neither give nor take from us. And we
are blessed with husbands whom we have
confidence in, and we honor them as they
honor their God. And let me tell you, my
sisters, there are many good and intelligent
women in our land to-day who wish their
husbands were as honorable as ours, and 
that they could tie to theirs as we can to
ours. We love our husbands, we love our
children, and we love our religion, and

[Column 3]
there is abundance of proof in what we
have done that we are sincere.
	The next speaker was Mrs. Hannah T.
King, who read the following, written by
herself:
	I heard in my youth of the perfect free-
dom and the glorious liberty of America;
of the uncounted wealth of her citizens;
that there were no poor in America; that
fraternity and equality walked hand in 
hand; that her constitution was the most
faultless thing on earth; that the finger of
God was palpable in its formation; that the
country produced almost spontaneously; its
prospects grand and glorious; that her hills
were mountains and her rivers seas; that
the worship of the great Creator was free
and unbiased to all, without any restric-
tions, even though it were absurd, or
thought to be so, still it was free, and all
respected! For this very freedom the
"Mayflower" bore her precious freight of
souls across th[-] mighty Atlantic. Yes, the 
one grand idea. that here they might wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own individual creed and conscience. I
was born free and was an earnest, deep-
thinking girl, and the glory of this descrip-
tion became daguerrotyped on my young
mind till the dream of my youth became
a desire to visit this Eldorado and see for
myself this glorious Young America! this
far renowned republic! But years passed,
and the way did not open. I was married
early in life, and peace and plenty sur-
rounded my habitation, my cup became full
to overflowing, of good things. When I
heard of a people who had risen up in this
land which I had so poetized in my own
mind, and that they were called Latter-day
Saints; my mind was brought to a focus up-
on the principles they advanced; I consult-
ed no one but my God. I took my Bible
and compared them with the teachings of
Jesus, and found they corresponded in ev-
ery particular. The Elders told me that an 
angel had come and restored the everlasting
Gospel in its purity again to the earth, that
revelations had been given for the reorgan-
ization of God's church upon the earth, the
door being that by which Christ himself
entered when he was baptized by John the 
Baptist before entering upon his mission,
etc., etc. I listened and obeyed; there were
no inducements held o[-]t of ecclesiastical
honors, or of a high position in society. No!
but that probably my [-]ame would be cast
out as evil when I took upon myself the 
name of a disciple of Jesus, whose life was
suffering and obedience! The love of truth
and the Spirit of God showed me that this
Church was according to the pattern, in
every particular, that Christ had laid down
and established by his own example; I em-
braced it, passing through the door of bap-
tism for the remission of my sins. And
now the way was open for me to realize the 
dream of my youth, and become an inhab-
itant of this free and glorious country, that
I had so often heard spoken of as the refuge
of the destitute, and the land of the free!
Then came the astounding news that Jo-
seph Smith, the Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tar of the Church of Christ, had been mas-
sacred for his principles! as also his brother
Hyrum with him! It came like a thunder-
bolt! What, in America? that land whose
constitution guaranteed to all of every
clime among her people, "Life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness!" Alas! I awak-
ened from my early dream! My eyes were
opened and I saw, and knew that light had
come into the world, but darkness was pre-
ferred. To me, it acted only as a testimony


[Column 1]
that this was indeed the Church of Jesus
Christ re-established upon the earth, and
hence the persecution. Gathering was and
is one of our principles, and I had the spirit
of it as soon as I had been baptized; my
good and beautiful children embraced it
also, and we arose and left our beloved
home, laying all upon the altar, if need be,
for the Gospel in its fulness; and embracing
all its principles and of course plurality
among the rest. I had been educated in the
strictest principles of morality and refine-
ment, yet when I had heard that this was
one of the tenets of the Church, given by
revelation, I was by no means staggered,
but pondered it in my heart like Mary of
old! I knew it was the order of the an-
cient Saints, and great blessings had been
conferred upon the human family by obey—
ing it, even the Saviour coming to the 
earth through that lineage. Viewing it
also philosophically, I felt that its laws co-
incided with the law of my nature. My
daughters entered into the order in all their
youth and beauty—educated as they had﻿
been in all the refinements of the world,
and have ever honored it, and been an
honor to it, and to the Church, whose prin-
ciples they left their homes and all its at-
tractions to obey; and if my husband did not
enter into it, he was of course free to follow
his own mind; he was a man of the purest,
most refined morals, and I never heard him
say or hint one word against the [-]rder,
even when his young daughters entered in-
to it. "Verily, to the pure, all things are
pure." I have now been in the Church
twenty-eight years, and my path has not
been one of roses by any means, but I have
no regrets. I would not return to former
things, for Queen Victoria's crown and all
its appendages. The Lord being my helper,
I will live and die where I have cast my
lot. Its principles will feed and sustain all
those who desire to live them, and are full
of glory and immortality. This is, indeed
a mere synopsis of my Church history, but
a hint to the wise and good is sufficient for
them.
	I would like to have an interview with
the first lady of our country at the present
time. I have heard much of her goodness,
her love of honesty and truth, and should
love to see her take steps to investigate our
principles, and us as a people, we court in-
ves[-]igation, and never feel afraid. For
perfect love casteth fear. We love the hon-
est, ths wise and the good of every land and
clime, for one touch of the gospel makes
the whole world kin, when they embrace
it.
	If there are strangers present, I would
respectfully ask them to investigate our
principles—not the characters of men and
women indiscriminately, the truth of God
is not dependent on human action or hu-
man judgment. Among what churches on
earth are there no imperfect ones? We
must first be perfect our[-]elves before we
throw down the gauntlet. This is a proba-
tion, and imperfection is at present the law
of our being; by this "we make the whips
that scourge us," and by this we get our
schooling and increase in knowledge, wis-
dom and understanding, and then we can
make all things work for our good in time
and eternity.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot made the follow
ing impromptu speech:
	I am thankful, a[--] proud of the privilege
of standing before my sisters in the new and
everlasting covenant, many of whom know
me and have known me for many years. I
have been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints forty-four years;

[Column 2]
I have trodden paths strewn with thorns,
and I have trodden paths strewn with roses.
I have enjoyed my life and my religion all
the days I have spent in it. I know for
myself that we are engaged in the work of
the living God, and that I am numbered
among his people.
	With regard to the principle of plural
marriage, I wish to say, that I have had
experience in its practice for over thirty
years. I am the wife of a polygamist, I be-
lieve in the principle, and I know it to be
pure and chaste; and I know that those
who practise it in the spirit of the Gospel
of which it is a part, are pure and virtuous.
	And I know, too, that purer men and wo-
men do not live upon God's footstool than
those who live in this order of marriage.
	I have seen the Prophet Joseph through
whom this principle was revealed; I have
listened to his teachings, I have known for
myself of his virtue, of his purity, of his
goodness, of his desire to elevate and bless
the human family, and what I say, many of
you, my sisters, can bear witness of. I
know, too, that virtue and goodness and
purity is the watchword of our brethren; I
say I KNOW, I do not say I believe it, but I
do know for myself that what I say is
true. I know it by the revelations of the
Spirit of the living God—the Comforter
that was promised by the Saviour, and it is
confirmed by my long experience: I have
lived now nearly seventy years on this
earth, and forty-fonr of them have been
spent serving my God in this new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	My husband, as I have intimated, is a
polygamist; his other wives and his chil-
dren by those are just as much a part of his
family as me and mine, I being his first
wife; and his other wives are just as lawful
and honorable in the sight of God as I am,
and his children I consider to be just as
lawful and honorable as any children born
in wedlock. These are not only my feelings,
but I know them to be the feelings of many
others who o[-]cupy a position like that
which I occupy, and I believe them to be
the feelings of this whole community who
would, if they had the privilege, speak in
their own defense. We are not a degraded
community; we are not in abject slavery.
We have our privileges and rights—just as
many as I want, and as many as I know
how to use. Let me repeat—we are not
"degraded," neither are our children. We
have the noblest of children and the happi-
est of homes. I would be willing to com-
pare my husband's family with anybody's
family, to see what defect can be found in
them. Our sisters, ladies of other persua-
sions, have spoken of us as being "degrad-
ed." They do not know us, we are not un-
derstood, our principles are not understood,
neither are our motives known. We have
never attempted to interfere with any of
their privileges. On the contrary, we
have made them welcome to our land, after
making it what it is. We are they who
came here when the place was a desert wil-
derness: who have subdued the arid soil,
built the cities and planted the gardens and
vineyards, and made the place beautiful
and desirable. We, I say, have done this, un-
der the blessing of Almighty God, for with-
out his blessing upon our labors we could
not have endured the toil. But let me say,
that as far as our situation is concerned, we
are in the hands of God, and, as has often
been said, so I say, if this work is of God,
it will stand, despite all efforts to the con-
trary; and if of man, it must fail. But I do
not use the word "if" as though in doubt of
it, because I know, and you know, my sis-

[Column 3]
sters, tnat it is of God; and we know, to o
of the purity, the virtues and the integrity
that fill the bosoms of our sisters belonging
to this Church. We do not profess to be
perfect, but we can say, that those who live
up to all their privileges are blessed and
owned of God. We are in his hands, and
he will take care of his people.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read the following
address.

Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:

	To get the proper understanding of a
subject about which there is a difference of
opinion, and especially in an element where
right and wrong are so intricately inter-
mingled—wrong displacing right at every
presented opportunity, we must eliminate
the facts, which are the stern and indisput-
able rounds in the ladder of ascent by
which we climb slowly, but surely, to the
true solution of the difficulty. Suddenly
there has arisen in our midst a new variety
of opposition; the object of which is to
tread into the dust, without stint or dis-
tinction, that which we hold most sacred.
It is an element that, in the search for evil,
has skimmed from the surface the floating
ills with which (magnified and recolored by
their own perverted imagination into abso-
lute misrepresentation) they have sought to
arouse in the public mind, sentiments as
bitter as their own, with this object—that
we may be swept out of existence without
our cause being investigated or considered.
They have entirely overlooked the fact that
truth is heavy and often lies hidden in the
depths of unspoken words and deeds.
	The first question in the process of anal-
ysis of this matter is, who are these oppos-
ers? and second, who are the opposed? The
latter are they who, by glancing back
through the vista of thirty years, may be
seen in their westward journey as a little
handful of husbands, wives and children,
slowly w[-]nding their way toward the wil-
derness; with the cheerful hope treasured
deeply in their hearts, that there, buried in
its depths, they might worship God accord-
ing as he revealed his will and command-
ments. Thus the weary miles were crept
over, patiently overcoming the obstacles
of nature, braving dangers from wild men
and beasts, until the Lord whispered to his
anointed Prophet, "Here, in the barren
valley of the Great Salt Lake, is the resting
place of my people."
	Dilligently the pitching of tents went on,
followed by busy preparations for the ap-
proaching uptried winter, without a single
misgiving as to the result, for their hearts
were filled with the sustaining and glowing
influence of the Holy Spirit, inspiring them
with the assurance that God was near. As
the fruits of indomitable energy, persever-
ance and patient labor, the wild sagebrush
vanished, the rocky and arid soil, through
the power of the life-giving streams of
water, softening the forbidden face of na-
ture into smiling fields and gardens. With
this glad change of elements there gradual-
ly arose and prospered; industries, enter-
prise and [-]ommerce, the busy hum of
which tickled the ears of lovers of gain,
when again the web of our lives is inter-
woven with the hostile element of former
years. Is it a necessity that a community
of members of widely differing sentiments
on religious matters need harbor and foster
feelings of bitterness and strife? The many
true and tried "Gentile" friends of our 
people certi[-]y to the negative.
	There come times in our lives which
specially demand that the true spirit and

		(Continued on Page 102.)


[Column 1]

	(Continued from Page 99.)
strength of each individual should come
forth and take a firm stand for her convic-
tions and principles. History repeats itself
in the events of the sailing of our pilgrim
fathers, the signing of the constitution, the
exodus of the saints in '46, and to-day, the
enforced necessity of vindicating and pre-
serving the most sacred principle of our
faith and the honor and integrity of our-
selves and husbands. The days of silence
and patient endurance of calumny on the
women of the Latter-day Saints concerning
the subject of plural marriage are over.
And notwithstanding that "neglected cal-
umny soon expires," the great importance
of the fact that our children and children's
children have been born and bred under the
teachings and practice of this great princi-
ple, and the sacredness of our duty to pre-
serve hallowed and pure in their hearts the
altar of filial love, though sub-ordinate to
our higher duty of obedience to God, is an
inspiration not to be neglected or unheeded.
	It is the imperative duty and inaliena-
ble right of every woman to choose her re-
ligious path in life, and this we have done
to the perfect answering of heart and con-
science. To me there is but one alternative
beside the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
and that is Infidelity—the shoreless deep to
which too many are surely drifting. As to
securing to ourselves a path in this life
without perplexities and trials, can this
security be found where there is only one
wife, any more than in the family of plural
marriage? Investigation says not. There-
fore we believe, and are constrained to say
that if the progressive spirit of the age and
true Christian sympathy and labor be di-
rected toward the redemption and elevation
of the myriads of wronged and abandoned
women, abounding in all great cities, to the
rearing and education of the thousands of
illegitimate children, and to the enactment
of such laws that shall lay the axe at the
root of this evil, that very soon a feeling of
peace and goodwill would fill the hearts of
the nation, and the spirit of mobocracy,
that would invade the homes of the saints,
depart from the face of the land.
	The following preamble and resolutions
were read by Miss Annie Wells, which, on
motion, were unanimously adopted:
		PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
misjudged and misrepresented to the na-
tion, by those in our midst of our own sex,
in regard to our most sacred rights—the
rights which pertain to the holy relations
of wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
earnestly, solemnly and emphatically de-
clare our true sentiments, and invite a
thorough and impartial investigation of our
cause; wherefore:
	RESOLVED, That we, women of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and loyal American citizens, claim
the right guaranteed by the Constitution
that "Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof;" a right which
we seek to exercise, not to the injury of
others, but within the pale of peace and
justice, of life, liberty and pursuit of hap-
piness, according to the dictates of our own
consciences.
	RESOLVED, that we protest against
any enactment of any laws which de-
prive American citizens, whether male
or female, of any constitutional right; and
that we make a united effort to secure the
unanimous voice of the women of our faith,

[Column 2]

to plead the passage of the Sixteenth
Amendment during the coming session of
Congress.
	RESOLVED, That we solemnly avow
our belief in the doctrine of the Pa-
triarchal order of marriage, a doctrine
which was revealed to and practised by
God's people in past ages, and is now re-
established on the earth, by divine com-
mand of Him who is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever. A doctrine which, if
lived up to and carried out under the direc-
tion of the precepts pertaining to it, and of
the higher principles of our nature, would
conduce to the long life, strength and glory
of the people practising it; and we there-
fore endorse it, as one of the most import-
ant principles of our holy religion, and
claim the right of its practice.
	RESOLVED, That we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts and labors of the noble
ladies of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, who, though opposed in their
feelings to plural marriage, and without
sympathy for our religious views, bravely
defended the cause of woman's rights in
Utah, in the halls of Congress, and take
this public opportunity of tendering them
an expression of our sincere and heartfelt
thanks.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
memorialize Congress, setting forth
their grievances, and that they take such
other justifiable steps as may be necessary
to defend themselves against the ruthless
and violent assault now being made upon
their sacred and constitutional rights.
	Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff then said:
	My sisters, I can say that I stand before
you as a witness of the truthfulness of the
doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. It has been upwards of
forty years since my first acquaintance with
these doctrines, this people and the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith. I knew him to be an
honorable, virtuous and pure man, and his
brother Hyrum also. They strove as much
as they could to bless the saints and people
of this generation by the teaching of true
and righteous principles. If my memory
serves me rightly, the Prophet was arrested
forty different times accused of crimes, but
nothing was ever proved against him. And
after laboring until he was 38 years of age,
he with his brother Hyrum was murdered,
and for what? For teaching the Gospel of
Jesus as revealed to him from the heavens,
of which the whole world was in ignor-
ance, and when those wicked men commit-
ted this act, they knew not they had killed
the best friend they had upon the earth.
However, that deed must be accounted for,
justice and judgment will take their place.
	I was brought up to regard strictly the
principles of morality; and when the order
of Celestial Marriage was introduced into
the Church, I thought it the most heinous
thing I ever heard of, and I opposed it to
the utmost of my power, thinking I was
doing right. But I began to consider and
reflect, and I learned that it came through
the prophet of God. I regarded it in an
earnest light, and therefore I went to God,
my heavenly Father, and inquired of Him
of the truth of this doctrine. He made it
manifest to me as plainly as I could have
wished that it was of Him, and that it
came as a principle of salvation to the wo-
men of this generation. If I am proud of
anything in this world it is that I accepted
the principle of plural marriage and re-
mained among the people called "Mor-
mons" and am numbered with them to-day.
I am acquainted with their doctrines, and

[Column 3]

I declare to this large congregation, and I
would that I could do so to the whole world,
that they teach the principles of truth and
righteousness, of virtue and purity. Such
principles will harm no one. Then why
are we so persecuted? To answer briefly,
because these principles are of God, who
has set his hand again to establish his name
in the earth, by introducing these very
principles, which the adversary cannot and
will never overthrow. And those who per-
secute this principle will suffer for it, sure.
I can say truly that I am satisfied for one—
and I do'nt guess at it, nor is it because
some one has told me—but it is because the
Spirit of God has borne testimony to me of
the truth of this work, and of its truthful-
ness I am a witness. Then why are people
opposed to it? It is because they do not
know it, and because they do not seek to
know it. There is but one way that any-
body can find out the truth of our doctrines,
and that is by going to God, the Author of
them, in all humility and honesty of heart,
asking Him in the name of Jesus whether
they are of Him or of man.
	To those who have come among us, and
who are endeavoring to put down this prin-
ciple of plural marriage, I would say that
for one, I thank you for your good inten-
tions in trying to suppress what you think
is wrong; but let me say to you, and I now
speak the sentiments of by far the larger
part of this congregation, bestow your sym-
pathy upon those who need it; go to the
large cities of our land and reclaim your
poor fallen sisters; they need it, we don't,
and we ask to be let alone. We are per-
fectly able to stand on our own foundation,
by the help of our Heavenly Father; and
let me tell you that He is at the helm, He
will see us safely through, and will bless all
those who seek to honor and respect virtue;
and those who do it not will meet justice.
Beware, then, you injure not the innocent,
for justice awaits all that shall be found
guilty of doing so, so sure as God lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am very much pleased to meet with so
many of my sisters on this momentous oc-
casion. I love woman: it is one of my sen-
timents; and I am proud to say that among
the women of the Latter-day Saints there
are as true and noble women as can be
found anywhere else in the world, with de-
sires and aims as lofty and as pure. Al-
though we are charged with nearly every-
thing that it is possible for our sex to be ac-
cused of, yet we feel we have those motives
within us that buoy us up and bear us above
the trials we have to endure.
	I intended to have written an address for
this meeting, but have been ill and unable
to do so, yet I thought I could not let this
opportunity pass without offering a few
words.
	I feel that we are in earnest; that the
time has come when we can no longer be
silent, as we are assailed, and that too by
our own sex, who, it seems, would, if pos-
sible, deprive us of the claim to wifehood
and motherhood, by destroying our most
sacred relations and crushing our most holy
affections. But they know not what they
do. Were they conscious of the conse-
quences were their undertakings to be suc-
cessful, they would cease their efforts and
shrink from the task.
	The Lord is with this people; this fact
has been plainly manifest. None, I think,
who are possessed of reason can question
that, whether our principles of religion are
true or not. We have already proclaimed
our wrongs and sufferings (brought about


[---]ough persecution) to the world; but
[-]ow we feel that we are called upon to do
[--] in a manner different from that we have
heretofore employed; and that, too, because
we have been attacked in a way we never
anticipated. We never thought that wo-
man could rise up against woman. Such a
thought was far indeed from my mind, and
I believe from the minds of the women of
Utah. Though I cherish no ill-feelings to-
wards those who have so greatly interested
themselves against this principle of our
faith, yet they oppose it and we must meet
it; and we intend to meet it with all the
energy and fortitude we possess, and it
will be "diamond cut diamond" rest as-
sured; proposing, of course, all measures
of peace and harmony, and adhering strictly
to the Constitution of our country; but let
it be known that we intend to defend our
institutions, and represent our own cause,
both at home and abroad, and let the world
know how much truth there is in those oft-
told tales of woe about the drown-trodden
Mormon women. Thank God there are a
few honorable people in the world, who are
not afraid to publish for the outcast and de-
spised women of Utah.
	Mrs. E. Thomas entertained the meeting
with one of her sweet songs, when the
closing prayer was offered by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday, 
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
	THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER OF
			MARRIAGE	 

	In this city, at the present time, the subject
of a plurality of wives, its conditions and con-
sequences, is the topic of the hour. It even
forms the basis of partyism, and that, too, be-
tween women. It cannot be expected that
any great innovation of established customs in
any country, however liberal, can be made
without its conflicting with the prejudices of
individuals, and especially those who are secta-
rian, sterotyped, or conservative. The genius
of Mormonism is progressive, it tends to a high-
er and more elevated phase of life; not accord-
ing to the views of the world through the
resources of wealth, but by means of higher
laws, given by revelation to a people humble,
willing and obedient. God seldom revealed
Himself in any age to the proud and haughty.
All the great and wise men favored of God in
past ages were meek and humble; when they
became lifted up the Lord chastised them; and
there is abundant testimony in the Scriptures,
that through humility and obedience the great-
est blessings from God are obtained.
	Many intelligent women as well as men,
out-numbering men even, have embraced the
doctrines of Mormonism; they comprehend its
truths for themselves. Among other princi-
ples, they have accepted the patriarchal order
of marriage as a part of their holy religion.
They are as sincere and fervent in their belief
on this subject as any other, in fact it is one of
the vital principles of their faith. It is inter-
woven intricately with their hearts and lives.
	What is there so strong as woman's love?
And are Mormon women less capable of loving
than their Gentile sisters? Remember, good
friends, who so much desire to do good to Mor-
mon women, you are touching the most sensi-
tive subject when you seek to disannul their
marriage covenants, and bring discord and
confusion into homes where now exist peace
and harmony and love.
	Far better had you set yourselves to effect
some measures whereby single ladies of mature
age might secure homes, and become the
mothers of children. Mormon women have
not entered into these solemn and sacred cove-
nants without understanding for themselves.
They have searched the Scriptures, they have
sought God in prayer and fasting, and thou-
sands of them can testify to-day of great spir-
itual manifestations, giving them positive
knowledge of God's approval of this holy order
of matrimony.
	It is folly to suppose that intelligent women,
possessing fine spiritual natures—women who
have forsaken homes and the society of loved
ones, enduring all sorts of hardship, toil and
privation, and braving actual dangers for their
religion, would enter lightly, without serious

[Column 2]
reflection and candid investigation, into mar-
riage covenants, that were contrary to the es-
tablished rules and customs of the country;
especially at the sacrifice of all woman's self-
ishness.
	Great and good men and women highly fa-
vored of God were the founders on earth of the
Patriarchal order of marriage, and therefore it
cannot in itself be a crime because God has
expressly declared Himself against adultery.
	In the prose writings of John Milton (better
known as a poet), tenth chapter of "A Treatise
on Christian Doctrine," we find sound and
logical reasoning on this subject: "In the
definition (of marriage) which I have given, I
have not said, in compliance with the common
opinion of (ONE MAN WITH ONE WOMAN), lest I
should, by implication, charge the holy patri-
archs and pillars of our faith, Abraham and the
others who had more than one wife at the same
time, with habitual fornication and adultery;
and lest I should be forced to exclude from the
sanctuary of God as spurious, the holy offspring
which sprang from them, yea, the whole of
the sons of Israel, for whom the sanctuary it-
self was made. For it is said (Deut. xxiii, 2)
'A bastard shall not enter into the congrega-
tion of Jehovah, even to his tenth generation.'
Either, therefore, polygamy is a true marriage,
or all children born in that state are spurious;
which would include the whole race of Jacob,
the twelve holy tribes chosen by God. But as
such an assertion would be absurd in the ex-
treme, not to say impious, and as it is the
height of injustice as well as an example of
most dangerous tendency in religion to account
as sin what is not such in reality, it appears to
me, that, so far from the question respecting the
lawfulness of polygamy being trivial, it is of
the highest importance it should be decided."
	After much more arguing in favor of polyga-
my Milton says: "Lastly, I argue as follows
from Heb. xiii, 4. "Polygamy is either, mar-
riage, or fornication, or adultery.' The Apostle
recognizes no fourth state. Reverence for so
many patriarchs who were polygamists will, I
trust, deter any one from considering it as for-
nication or adultery; "For whoremongers and
adulterers God will judge;' whereas the patri-
archs were the objects of his especial favor, as
He Himself testifies. If, then, polygamy be
marriage properly so called, it is also lawful
and honorable.	*	*	*	It appears to
me sufficiently established by the above ar-
guments that polygamy is allowed by the law
of God; lest, however, any doubt should re-
main, I will subjoin abundant examples of
men whose holiness renders them fit examples
for imitation, and who are among the lights of
our faith." Milton then enumerates the po-
lygamists who were the recipients of special
favor from God; among them Elkanah, the fa-
ther of Samuel, who took with him his two
wives every year to the sacrifices and annual
worship. Milton adds, "Who can believe,
either that so many men of the highest charac-
ter should have sinned through ignorance for
so many ages, or that their hearts should have
been so hardened, or that God should have tol-
erated such conduct in his people? Let, there-
fore, the rule received among theologians have
the same weight here as in other cases"—"The
practise of the Saints is the best interpretation
of the commandments."
	Plural marriage presents itself now to the
public in the form of a living problem, and it
is one that puzzles and perplexes this gen-
eration. Men have been cogitating and leg-
islating to solve this vexed problem, and
now behold women have the matter under se-
rious consideration. Well, good friends, there
is something abstruse and deep in the Mormon

[Column 3]
Problem, and it is similar to a Mathematical
Problem, for it needs a key and that key be-
longs to the Great Teacher, and He gives it
only to the humble and obedient, who take
upon themselves his name and enter into cove-
nant with Him. These are they who are par-
takers of the promises given through Abraham
the father of the faithful. Mormonism lives, to-
day in the hearts of its thousands of followers
and will perpetuate its institutions through
their posterity.			E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE mass meeting occupies so large a portion
of this issue that we feel it is scarcely necessary
to say manuscript sent us for this number is
laid over.
	WE had the pleasure of seeing and hearing
Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the famous artiste and
reader, which was indeed a rich intellectual
treat. Entertainments of this kind are calcu-
lated to give a higher tone to the thirst for lit-
erary food in the form of recreation. We would
be glad to see some of the home talent highly
developed in elocution and public reading.
	Y. L. M. I. A., ATTENTION. —The Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion are hereby request-
ed to forward a condensed report of their sev-
eral organizations, dating from commence-
ment, and including statistical and financial
reports, names of officers, changes that have
been made, number of members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, times of holding meetings, etc.
The reports should be sent in time to be read at
the ladies' quarterly conference, to be held
December 21, 1878. Address—P. O. Box 1183,
Salt Lake City.
		MARY A. FREEZE, Superintendent.
		E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.
	A MASS meeting was held by the ladies of
Granite Ward, on Thursday, November 21, 1878.
Meeting was called to order by Mrs. Ruth A.
Despain, and on motion of Miss Ella E. Des-
pain, Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen was elected
chairman of the meeting; Miss Ella E. Des-
pain was chosen secretary. The chairman,
Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen, arose and stated that
the object of the meeting was to protest against
the anti-polygamy crusade, and to fully en-
dorse the resolutions passed by the ladies that
assembled at the Theatre on Saturday, the
16th. A vote was taken that all who were in
favor of endorsing the said resolutions would
make it manifest, and it was carried unani-
mously, not one dissenting voice. They also
wish no sympathy and ask no favor of the anti-
polygamy crusaders. A vote of thanks was
rendered to the chairman and secretary, and
the meeting was adjourned.
	WOMAN'S TERRITORIAL ANNUAL GRAIN
MEETING.—The annual meeting of the several
committees engaged in storing grain for Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, November 23d, Mrs. E. B. Wells pre-
siding. After singing, prayer was offered by
Miss E. R. Snow. The first business of the
meeting was to choose a secretary; Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard was elected by unanimous vote
of the assembly. The Secretary then read the
report of November, 1877, and the minutes of
the first annual meeting, which were accepted.
She then read the report of the present year.
Total, 14,535 bushels, 1,650 pounds of flour, oats 7
bushels. This added to the report of last year
and the amount handed in to the President
since the meeting was held, makes in all 25,000
bushels of grain stored by women, much of it
being the product of the sisters' labors in Relief
Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations. Their


teen granaries have been built, several others
commenced, and many more contemplated.
The granary built by the Relief Society of the
15th Ward cost $432.91. The one built by the 
sisters of the 17th Ward cost $300. Other Re-
lief Societies have not reported the expense of
building. Many Relief Societies have good
substantial bins for present use. The meeting
was addressed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Phoebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of We-
ber County R. S. Stake, Mrs. Ann Odell, of 
Ogden, Mrs. Maria Carrington and Mrs. E.
Howard. The President presented some special
business, and the meeting was adjourned for
one year, after singing, and prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A VETERAN APOSTLE.
	Elder Orson Hyde, one of the senior mem-
bers of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
died at his residence, Spring City, Sanpete
County, on Thursday, November 28th, at 6
o'clock p.m.
	Elder Hyde was one of the strong pillars in
the Church; he has labored faithfully during a
very long period of time, preaching the Gos-
pel at home and abroad, and assisting in pro-
moting the interests of Zion.
	Elder Hyde was born January 8, 1805, in
large family to mourn for him; but such men
are public benefactors, and the whole people
mourn, yet rejoice, that he has passed beyond
the reach of pain and sorrow, that his life work
is completed, and he has gone to join the innu-
merable company of Saints, and associate in 
council with Joseph, Hyrum, Brigham, Heber,
Willard, and other good and great men his co-
laborers here.  Thus are passing away one by
one the pioneer workers in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, Nov. 4th, 1878, in Tooele, Mrs. Mary,
the beloved wife of Elder Robert Meikle-john,
in the 67th year of her age.
	Deceased was born April 14th, 1812, in Dum-
bartonshire, Scotland. She embraced the
Gospel in her native land in 1841, and emigrat-
ed to Utah in 1855. The loss occasioned by the 
death of the highly esteemed Sister Meikle-
john is now and long will be deeply felt. In
her, her husband has lost a loving companion
and wise counselor—her children, a kind and
affectionate monitor; in her, the poor have lost
a friend—the sick a physician—the erring a
guide—and all those who are earnestly labor-
ing to promote the interests of Zion an efficient
co-worker.
	Her Children, now left to mourn her loss, are
living evidences of her wisdom and faithful-
ness as a mother of children; and as a "mother
in Israel," many, very many testify of her un-
tiring diligence and self-sacrificing devotion to
the labors and responsibilities of that important
position.
	In April, 1870, she was elected President of
the Relief Society of Tooele Wards; and in
Sept., 1878, was elected President of the Relief
Society Stake of Zion for Tooele County. With
characteristic, unassuming modesty, this high
calling she cheerfully accepted, and had just
entered upon its duties when suddenly she
was called to a higher sphere. She "fought
the good fight and kept the faith".
	Prudent and wise in every move,
		In household duties and abroad—
	Prompt to each call of trust and love—
		True to her cov'nants with her God.

[Column 2]

	Words are too weak: her life-prints tell
		How firm and faithful to the end;
	She fill'd her sphere: you fill'd it well,
		Beloved Mother, Wife and Friend!
			E. R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 19, 1878.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, November 12, Mrs
Adelaide F. Smith, after an illness of two
weeks from the effects of blood poisoning occa-
sioned by getting a piece of glass into her
hand.
	She was the daughter of Henry and Ann
Fowles, and was born September 8th, 1831, at
Bedford, Bedforshire, England. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, in her childhood. On February 8th,
1850, she was married to Elder Job Smith,
while he was on a mission to England. Mrs.
Smith left England for Utah in 1854, with her
husband and little children. Her babe died on
board ship, and was consigned to the bosom of
the great deep; the eldest child died on the
steamer coming up the Mississippi and was
buried by the shore of the river.
	Deceased leaves a husband and five children,
who will miss her constant care and attention.
A sister and family are her only other rela-
tives in this land, but she has numerous friends
who will deeply and sincerely mourn her loss.
She was a woman of strong characteristics,
sterling integrity, and possessing most benevo-
lent qualities of heart.
	Mrs. Smith spent three years in Ogden, as-
sisting with untiring industry and womanly
tact and skill to aid in establishing the straw
millinery as a branch of home-manufacture of 
the Relief Society of Ogden. The President
and sisters of Ogden Relief Society condole
with the daughter who is left to take charge of
the family, and desire to manifest their deep
sympathy for the husband and children thus
sorely bereft, and they hereby wish to express
their ardent appreciation of her untiring labors
and successful efforts in the home industry in
which she worked so diligently and faithfully for 
three successive years. She will be long remem-
bered, and her memory will be dearly cherished
by her sisters there, and they will ever pray for 
the happiness, prosperity and peace of those
she has left behind, her children and friends.
	Mrs. Smith was a firm believer in the doc-
trines and principles of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, and bore a faithful testimony to the same.
Her indefatigable labors in making a branch of
home-manufacture popular and successful is
one of the best evidences of her faith and devo-
tion to the work of God in the last days, which
is a practical as well as spiritual work.
	Died, at Wallsburg, November 6th, 1878,
Bathsheba L. Kerby, beloved wife of Alma
Kerby, and daughter of our beloved President
of the Relief Society; aged 20 years, 1 month
and 21 days.
	Deceased was born at Provo, September 16th,
1858. She leaves a husband and two children
(the youngest two weeks old) and numerous
relatives and friends to mourn her loss. She
was a faithful Latter day Saint, beloved by all
who knew her. She was a teacher in our Re-
lief Society, which position she faithfully
filled. While we deeply mourn her absence,
we feel that our loss is her infinite gain.
	"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,
even so says the spirit, for they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them."
		S. G.
	Died, in Spanish Fork, September 25th, 1878,
Mary Magdalene, daughter of the late John
Baxter and Mary Ferguson, after a long and 
very painful illness.
	Deceased was born March 7th, 1860. She was
a very interesting and intelligent girl, much

[Column 3]

beloved by her associates. During her sickness
she many times expressed her gratitude to her
mother for her tender care and devoted atten-
tion to her. Her last words were blessing and
thanking her mother for her kindness. She
passed away peacefully, fully resigned to the
will of her Father in Heaven, and with a full
assurance of a resurrection with the just.
	H. C.


THE ANTI-POLYGAMY PETITION.
	The ladies confess, in their address, that Con-
gress has utterly failed to put down Polygamy.
I would here ask the question, What is the 
cause of their failure?  It certainly is not be-
cause they have been negligent in proposing
plans, in laying schemes or in enacting laws.
No! not by any means; for most assuredly they
have been diligent workers in their master's
cause.  The answer is simple, but truly signifi-
cant- this is God's work.  He hath commanded
that the law of Celestial Marriage shall be ob-
served, and who shall disannul it?  What is 
the puny arm of man?  "It is like the bubble
in the brook."
	Again, they are horrified that an Apostle,
with four acknowledged wives, should be al-
lowed to sit in Congress.  Poor righteous souls!
How can they ever associate with the God of
Abraham? For we read in the good old Bible
that he was the friend of God, and in his seed
all the nations of the earth are to be blessed.
And how can their righteous souls ever stoop
to enter through the pearly gates of the New
Jerusalem, whereon shall be inscribed the 
names of the twelve Patriarchs noted polyga-
mists, and of polygamic descent?  Anti-polyg-
amists, do you believe the Bible?  If you do,
you will see by perusing its pages that polyga-
mists were eminently favored of God.  The
Lord appeared to Jacob when he was traveling
with his four wives, and blest him, and said,
"Thou art a prince, and hast power with God."
Also, God said unto Abraham, "This shall be a 
memorial unto all generations, that I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob."
	Again, "Gentiles are not admitted into the 
Endowment House, or Temples.  "O fools, and
slow of heart."  Know ye not that in the Mo-
saic dispensation none were permitted to enter
into the Holiest of Holies, except the High
Priests, and that only once a year.  And when-
ever God has a people holding the Holy Priest-
hood here on earth, they have holy places
wherein to administer in holy ordinances per-
taining therunto. And let the Gentiles be-
ware, and remember the fate of the Philis-
tines in connection with the ark of God.
	One question- What have these Christian
ladies to give us in lieu of Polygamy?  I will
answer for them, for the results of Monogamy
cry aloud, corruption, degradation, death, adul-
tery, illegitimacy, infanticide and all manner
of abominations follow in the train of Social 
Evil. And of this class are those who fight
against Apostles and Prophets, on whose head
shall be the blood of all the Prophets and of all
the slain of the earth, for as their fathers did
so do they; for the same wicked spirit is in
their hearts.  Under the scarlet cloak of Chris-
tianity they build up churches to dead Saints,
and if they lived in their midst they would
persecute them.
Another question- Sisters, shall we give up
Plural Marriage, or any other principle of Mor-
monism?  No! Echo answers No!  From
every mother and daughter in Israel; we shall
stand boldly for the cause of truth and virtue.
Our cause is just and in God is our trust.  Men
may bring trouble upon us, but God is able to
deliver us; we have proved Him in days that
are past.  Ever praying for the prosperity of 
Zion,				MARY FERGUSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
POLITENESS TO WIVES.
I have been led to reflect, by the many
incidents that have come under my obser-
vation, that there is a woful delinquency in
the common courtesies between husbands
and wives.  I have often said that polite-
ness is as essential to happiness as religion.
True religion polishes and refines the soul.
If a man cannot afford to be as polite to his
own wife, and treat her with as much re-
spect as he does his neighbor's wife, he does
not merit the appellation of husband.  Lan-
guage is too barren to express the indigna-
tion I feel when I hear a man speak in a
disrespectful manner to the mother of his
children.  The being who, by every species
of tenderness, he won for his bride, to
identify her existence with his, to risk the 
happiness and peace of her whole life in
his keeping; whom above all women on the
earth he should honor.  To hear him speak
in a coarse, harsh tone of voice, uttering
unhallowed and ungodly words of reproach
for a small offense, which the poor woman
had inadvertently committed, without the
least design af offending him, and this
perhaps in presence of their children, thus
wounding her pride; for what woman does
not feel dignified and elevated to have her
children see that their father honors her in
her position, as the presiding genius of his
household. When I witness the reverse of 
this, and I see an amiable, care-worn wo-
man treated like a servant, and even with
less respect, it reconciles me to the princi-
ple of plural marraige. I reason thus.
"Well, I know there are good men, culti-
vated and refined, who know enough to
treat their wives with kindness and polite-
ness; let them have all the good women,
and let the tyrants go without any.  I am
happy in remembering some good men I 
have known in this world.  I once resided
in a family for a year or more, the man
constantly at home, and not a harsh, unkind
word did I hear from the lips of the hus-
band towards the dear woman he had
chosen in his youth for a companion during 
this natural life: nothing beyond this life
did he know of the holy estate of matri-
mony.
 Another instance I will relate.  A young
man married a wife and moved her home
to his father's house to live with a large
family of brothers and sisters.  He wished
her to be honored by his relatives, and was
therefore thoughtful enough to guard him-
self against over uttering a reproving word
to her in their presence.  If in her deport
ment she sometimes tell short of his high-
est approval, he would appear not to notice
it till they were alone, and then remind
her in a gentle manner, and request her to 
be more guarded in future.  Seeing how 
wise he was made her doubly watchful.
She was ever mindful of St. Paul's injunc-
tion, "Let the wife see that she reverence
her husband."  She felt that his motive
was to give no license to his kindred to
reprove her.
 I remember a sea captain in the Society
Islands; rough as that class of men generally
are, there was one gentleman among them
by the name of McClain.  He married a Tahi-
tian native woman, and in process of time
brought her on a voyage to San Francisco, to
let her see a little of the world.  The ladies of
that city told me of his extreme politeness
to his tawny wife.  He took the utmost
pains to make her feel at ease among stran-
gers and white women, and really devoted
more attention to her than he would to one
who felt herself his equal.  The ladies were
ardent in his praise, saying, "How gentle-
manly it was in the captain, that instead of 
leaving her on board the vessel, or at the 
boarding house, and flirting with other
women (as many of his class would have
done), he paid her the polite attentions due
to a polished white woman."  And her na-
tural tendency to good sense taught her to
honor her husband.  And how could she do
otherwise, when having so noble an exam-
ple in one who, though her superior, treated
her as an equal.  And that was right; she
was his wife, a woman of integrity, amia-
ble and confiding, though untutored in the 
arts of modern civilization, she had natural
talents capable of a high development.
It is written of General Washington that
his most intimate friends never knew him
to be remiss in heightened courtesy to his
life companion.  Joseph Smith was another
example, as I learned from one long an in-
timate friend of his family.  Samuel R.
Wells won respect and admiration in Salt
Lake City by his thoughtful solicitude and
true politeness to his wife.
Alas!  How much of peace and happiness
is forfeited by a careless inattention to the 
laws made to govern male and female in
their matrimonial alliances.  May God speed
the day and help us to prepare for a higher
civilization.             L. B. P. BEAVER.


REPORT OF A MISSIONARY TOUR.

	Sisters E. R. Snow, E. Howard and E.
Davis left Salt Lake City on the morning of
the 12th of October last, and arrived in
East Portage, Malad Valley, in the evening.
Visited the Relief Societies in Malad City,
Samaria, St. Johns, Cherry Creek, West
Portage and East Portage, where they as-
sisted in reorganizing the Society.
	On the 22nd, they returned to Ogden,
where Sister Howard took the train on the 
Utah Central for home, and on the morning
of the 23rd, Sisters Snow and Davis went
to Morgan City, and on the 24th attended
the first quarterly conference of the Relief
Societies of Morgan County Stake.
	In that county they visited Weber and
Croyden; and in Summit County, Henne


ferville, Echo, Coalville, Wanship, Rock-
port, Peoa, Kamas and Almy, where they
organized a Y. L. M. I. Association, thence
to Evanston. On the 4th of November,
Sister Davis returned to Salt Lake City in
the evening, while Sister Snow remained
to assist in organizing a Relief Society in
that place, and returned home the following
day, having attended in all thirty meet-
ings. 
	The weather was favorable, and the peo-
ple everywhere were delighted to see the
sisters, who came as missionaries to the
Relief Societies and Young Ladies' Associ-
ations.


THE PHYSIOLOGIST AND FAMILY
		PHYSICIAN.

ORGAN OF THE NEW YORK PHYSIOLOGICAL
	SOCIETY. A MONTHLY SIXTEEN PAGE
	QUARTO. THE ONLY HOME HEALTH JOUR-
	NAL PUBLISHED IN THE NEW WORLD TO-
	DAY.

	Its mission is to popularize the subject of
physiology, and be a harbinger of healing
for the household, a physician for the peo-
ple.
	Its grand, single purpose is to elevate and
bless human kind by promulgating truths
which. lie at the very foundation of the
earthly well being of man, and which the
whole world would be benefited by know-
ing and practicing.
	Its department of "Emergencies" make
it a cheap and ready work of reference in
cases of sudden sickness when a doctor may
not be within reach at the moment of need.
Special attention is given to antidotes and
means to be used in cases of poisoning, and
every number contains explicit directions
for the nursing and medical treatment of
diseases to which every family is subject at
some time.
	The Domestic department is crammed with
invaluable hints for the household, recipes
for cooking, etc, etc.
	The columns devoted to the Inquirer make
it an unexampled cyclopædia of practical
and needed knowledge; while those devoted
to popular Literature and general Reform
are unexcelled by any journal of the day.
	Subscription Price, $1,50 per year.
Single Copies 15 Cents.
	All the back numbers for six months from
the beginning of the Volume Fifty Cents.
	Address all subscriptions and communica-
tions to
		SARA B. CHASE, M. D., Editor.
	Physiological Rooms, 102 West 38 Street,
New York.


New York has twice as many women
printers as five years ago.
	Of the 470 students now in the Ohio
Wesleyan University 140 are ladies.
	THE woman suffragists throughout
Indiana are organizing in Congressional
districts.
	Mme. Litvinow, a Russian lady, has
received the degree of doctor of philosophy
from the University of Berne. She passed
her examination with such brilliancy, espec-
ially in mathematics, that the faculty unan-
imously agreed to attach the highest mark,
—"Cum summa laude"—to her diploma.


[--]	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SO MUCH TO DO.

O where is my little daughter?
	She cannot be far away,
For only just now I heard her
	Sweet voice at her happy play.
"O! I am right here, dear mama,
	What is it you want with me?
Only I don't think I can do it,
	I'm busy as I can be."

Why, what in the world is't, tell me?
	What wonderful thing and new,
That my pet can't help me a little,
	When I have so much to do?
"Why, there's so much play to be done;"
	Then added in graver way,
"And there's so much that I don't think I
	Can finish it all to-day."

O soul of my little daughter!
	That opened a door of light,
Though the afternoon swift was passing.
	With its unfinished tasks, to night.
So busy with airy castles,
	So rich, with her trifling toys,
Not counting their cost, or measure;
	Content with the present joys.

No miser that counts his treasures
	So happy and restless as she;
For hers are o'erflowing and countless,
	And stainless, and bright as can be;
And she trembles not that she may lose them,
	Nor hesitates to divide;
Nor questions the future's providing,
	For her trust, like her joy, is wide.

And so one who never read books,
	And never professed to be wise,
Has silenced my troubled spirit,
	And strengthened my weary eyes,
My day, too, is full of blessings,
	Its joys, as well as its care,
Cannot all be held in one day,
	But shall make another fair.

And I saw how e'en my own life
	Must unfinished pass to the next;
And the undone tasks around me
	No longer my spirit vexed;
And so while the birds low twittered,
	While the twilight shades fell 'round,
I'd time to spend with my dear ones,
	For my heart a rest had found.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, Nov. 19th, 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
		PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Since there has been such an excitement in
Salt Lake City recently over a supposed plural
marriage, it has caused me to ask myself the
question, Why is it that those who are not of
our faith will not give us credit for being sin-
cere; when we declare it to be a part of our
faith as much as baptism? I try to put the
most charitable construction on their views,
and suppose they judge us from their stand-
point. "Having eyes they see not, and ears
but understand not." If they would humble
themselves, and obey the Gospel with good
and honest hearts, they would understand
what they read, and the Scriptures would be
as a new book to them.
	I remember, in Nauvoo, being asked what I
would think if I should hear of an Elder tak-
ing more wives than one? I replied that I
would not think it at all strange, as we read in
the Bible that they did so anciently, and David,
"a man after God's own heart, sinned not in
this, save only in coveting the one wife of
Uriah." There are very many in this Church
who, from circumstances, are not practical
polygamists, yet believe and respect, and
would defend the principle just as readily as
those who have entered into it, if necessary.
That it is a great trial none will deny, to both
men and women, and much more to some than
others; and those who do not believe as we do
need not suppose that the Mormon women
would submit to it any more willing[-]y than
they, did they not believe it to be a command
from heaven; and knowing this they rely on


the Lord for his Spirit to help them, and when
men and women enter into it purely from these
motives they are sustained by the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, and are sometimes a wonder to
themselves.
	But many who are scarcely worthy of one
wife enter into it recklessly, without realizing
the great responsibility they are assuming; to
such it is liable to bring more trouble than
blessings.
	What greater sacrifice can a woman make
than to be willing to divide the affections of
her husband with another? And yet many do
so cheerfully, and after living together for
years would not be separated on any considera-
tion, for they can be and are a comfort to each
other in times of trouble and sickness. There
are many men in this Church who, were it
not for this privilege, would not have a child
to bear their name, yet now have large fami-
lies.
	Before closing I would refer to an article in
a back number of the EXPONENT taken from
"Woman's Words," in which the writer seemed
to be seeking for a religion which was tangible.
I thought, on reading it, if she would only
obey the Gospel she would find just what she
is seeking. I do not wonder that the religions
of the day do not satisfy those who belong to
the various churches, for to me much of it is
superficial. The ministers preach for hire and
set at naught the things of God.
				ELIZABETH BENTLEY.
	St. George, Nov. 9th.


MRS. ANNA D. C. HARDY read a paper last
Saturday evening, at MRS. SARGENT'S, on "Elo-
cution Taught Physiologically," or the proper
training of the human voice. This system of
developing and training the vocal organs, reach[-]
es far beyond the throat, and includes the
lungs and the digestive organs. It has been
used for some time, with great success, by the
best teachers of singing, and they have had,
besides their pupils in singing, many men
suffering from what is usually called minister's
sore throat. This throat trouble, which afflicts
so many teachers and public speakers, can, in
most cases be entirely cured, or greatly relieved
by the proper use of the vocal organs. MRS.
HARDY is an enthusiastic teacher, fresh from
her own studies; she has the endorsement of
Dr. Holmes, Governor Rice, Proffessor Emer-
son. Miss Abby May, Miss Lucia Peabody and
Miss Lucretia Crocker, and can be cordially
commended to all who would avoid weakness
or horseness of voice. She is at 52 Bowdoin
street—Womans Journal.


NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY COODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.
New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878.

	AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilied and plain FLANNELS,
jus received from the Provo Mills.  Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns, Cloths,
D[-]uble, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware Shoes Dixie otton Batting, and o her goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Pushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes.  Country dealers,
please call.  Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

	WINTER GOODS
		DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets;
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
			Saleroom to
	NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.
John Taylor, Pres't.       Wm. Jennings. Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N.
Manufacturers and Dealers in
	BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward. Salesroom and Factory, at the 
BIG BO[-]T!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt 
Lake City  All those who d[-]sire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time pu[-]chase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders o
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 15, 1878.	No. 14


TO SUSA.

IN ANSWER TO "BY THE BROOK."

'Tis strange that Nature, with gentle seeming,
Should whisper words of noble meaning 
	To mortal minds;
That lightning's flash and thunder's mutter,
Brooks, flowers and breezes should sometimes utter
	Truths most sublime.

I, too, have found a friend, my sister,
A rippling brook, whose quiet whisper
	Oft soothes my soul,
As by its side I sometimes wander,
O'er "knotty points" to think and ponder,
	Past my control.

And thus, one day, as erst perusing
They tender plaint, I fell to musing
	By my brook side.
"Shall wrongs go unredressed in Zion?
Is there no power we may rely on?
	No hand to guide?

"Can man thus crush a woman's power,
And tear from her, her rightful dower—
	To guard her own,
To bless the life she gave another,
And prove the holy love of Mother
	Her right alone?

I had supposed that Woman's mission
'Neath Gospel sway found full fruition,
	And she might feel
That, be he husband, friend, or brother,
Man can not trample on another
	Without appeal.

As thus I mused, a gentle murmur,
As soft and low as breeze of Summer,
	Fell on mine ear;
The sunbeams through the branches glistened,
As silently, enrapt I listened
	These words to hear.

"Some men may err, and others falter,
But God's designs they cannot altar,
	His words prevail.
Though He may deem it wise to chasten,
O soon His loving hands will hasten
	To lift the vail.

"He leads His servants as He willeth,
And through them His designs fulfilleth,
	Then why repine?
For though ye may not know His meanings
Behind the clouds His smiles are beaming,
And soon thy pathway will be streaming
	With light divine.			QUERY.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

	It was during the time we lived at the 
Brick Store that Joseph received the reve-
lation pertaining to Celestial Marriage; also
concerning the ordinances of the House of
the Lord. He had been strictly charged
by the angel who committed these precious
things into his keeping that he should only
reveal them to such persons as were pure,
full of integrity to the truth, and worthy
to be entrusted with divine messages; that
to spread them abroad would only be like
casting pearls before swine, and that the
most profound secresy must be maintained,
until the Lord saw fit to make it known
p[-]blicly through His servants. Joseph had
the most implicit confidence in my hus-
band's uprightness and integrity of charac-
ter; he knew him capable of keeping a se-
cret, and was not afraid to confide in him,
as he had been a Free Mason for many
years. He therefore confided to him, and a 
few others, the principles set forth in that
revelation, and also gave him the privilege
to read it and to make a copy of it, know-

[Column 2]
ing it would be perfectly safe with him. It
was this veritable copy, which was pre-
served, in the providence of God, that has
since been published to the world; for
Emma (Joseph's wife) afterwards becoming
indignant, burned the original, thinking
she had destroyed the only written docu-
ment upon the subject in existence. My
husband revealed these things to me; we
had always been united, and had the ut-
most faith and confidence in each other.
We pondered upon them continually, and
our prayers were unceasing that the Lord
would grant us some special manifestation
concerning this new and strange doctrine.
The Lord was very merciful to us; He re-
vealed unto us His power and glory. We
were seemingly wrapt in a heavenly vision,
a halo of light encircled us, and we were
convinced in our own minds that God heard
and approved our prayers and intercedings
before Him. Our hearts were comforted,
and our faith made so perfect that we were
willing to give our eldest daughter, then
only seventeen years of age, to Joseph, in
the holy order of plural marriage. She had
been raised in the strictest manner as re-
garded propriety, virtue and chastity; she
was as pure in thought, in feeling and in
impulse as it was possible for a young girl
to be. Yet, laying aside all our traditions
aud former notions in regard to marriage,
we gave her with our mutual consent. She
was the first woman ever given in plural
marriage by or with the consent of both 
parents. Of course these things had to be
kept an inviolate secret; as some were
false to their vows and pledges, persecution
arose, and caused grievous sorrow to those
who had obeyed, in all purity and sincerity,
the requirements of the celestial order of
marriage.
	The Lord commanded his servants; they
themselves did not comprehend what the
ultimate course of action would be, but
were waiting further developments from
heaven. Meantime the ordinances of the
house of the Lord were given, to bless and
strengthen us in our future endeavors to
promulgate the principles of divine light
and intelligence; but coming in contact
with all pre-conceived notions and princi-
ples heretofore taught as the articles of re-
ligious faith, it was not strange that many
could not receive it; others doubted, and
only a few remained firm and immovable.
Among that number were my husband and
myself; yet although my husband believed
and was firm in teaching this Celestial order
of Marriage, he was slow in practice. Jo-
seph repeatedly told him to take a wife, or
wives, but he wished to be so extremely
cautious not to do what would probably have
to be undone, that in Joseph's day he never
took a wife. When he did do so, he did it
to fulfill a duty due to the principles of di-
vine revelation as he understood his duty,
and believing sincerely that every man
should prove his faith by his works; but
he afterwards took several wives, and with 
one or two exceptions, they came into the
same house with me, and my children;
therefore, I believe I am safe in saying that
I am intimately acquainted with the prac-
tical part of polygamy.
		(To be continued.)


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation held its Annual Convention in In-
dianapolis, Nov. 13 and 14. We gather a
few important items in reference to the
Convention from our Exchanges. There
were many leading suffragists present. The
Committee on Credentials reported thirteen
States represented. Dr. Mary F. Thomas
of Richmond, Ind., presided. Lucy Stone
read the report of the Executive Commit-
tee. Wm. Loyd Garrison, President of the 
A. W. S. Association, was unable to be
present, but sent a letter “able and elo-
quent,” which was read by Mr. Hinkley of
Rhode Island. Miss Matilda Hindman of
Colorado said if the suffrage workers of the
East would contribute money, speakers and
workers, the next report from the Centen-
nial State would be woman suffrage trium-
phant. The speakers of whom particular
mention was made were J. Ellen Foster of
Iowa, H. B. Blackwell of Boston, Margaret
W. Campbell, Hannah Tracy Cutler, Hon.
George W. Julian and Mary F. Eastman.
	Resolutions were adopted, from which
we extract the following:
	Whereas, Theoretically governments de-
rive their just powers from the consent of 
the governed; and whereas, practically,
women are the greatest sufferers from de-
fective legislation, therefore,
	Resolved, That a government of the peo-
ple, by the people, for the people, must be
a government equally composed of men and
women; and that the co-operation of the 
sexes is alike essential to a happy home, a
refined society, a Christian church and a
Republican State.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Whereas, The United States courts have
affirmed that “the regulation of suffrage
belongs exclusively to the States,” and
that “women are citizens, and as such may
be made voters by appropriate State legis-
lation.” And whereas a sixteenth amend-
ment to the federal constitution, abolishing
political distinction on account of sex, al-
though just and necessary, can be more
easily obtained when several States have
set the example; therefore,
	Resolved, That we urge every existing
State association to renewed effort upon 
the next and each following State Legisla-
ture, and in every State where no such as-
sociation exists we urge individual effort,
and the immediate formation of a State
society


THAT gallant sailor, the British Admiral
Ramsey, says that on the coast of Africa he
once saw a regiment of rifle-women—and
black as they were, he must say he never
saw a finer regiment. All the officers were
women, and there was not one man in the
whole regiment. They were most courage-
ous, and fought bravely; in fact, a friend
told him that when they went into action
they fought like so many tigresses.
	DON'T refuse your wife a little extra spend-
ing money just now if she should ask it;
you will get it all back again in slippers
and dressing gowns next Christmas.—
Washington Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THIRD QUARTERLY CONFERENCE

RELIEF SOCIETY JUAB CO. STAKE

Held at Nephi Meeting House, Oct. 9th,
1878.  All members of the Stake Board
present, also Pres. G. Teasdale, Apostle
Orson Pratt, Patriarch J. G. Bigler, Bishop
John Andrews and Bro. George Kendall.
After singing, prayer and reading of
minutes of the former meeting, Pres.
Amelia Goldsbrough said: “It is with a
thankful heart that I stand here.  I am
proud of the opportunity that I have to
represent the society and the sisters of this
place, and am very much pleased with the 
energy of my sisters.  I wish to speak con-
cerning our little granary.  I wish it could
have been finished in time to receive the
grain donated by the sisters.  I think we
should have had much more grain stored;
solicit the brethren to assist us in this mat-
ter.  I am glad the sisters are alive to their
duties in waiting on the sick, clothing the
dead, etc. I feel to repeat what I said last
Conference to the teachers, to go as com-
forters and make the people feel that their
friends are coming to see them.  I am
happy to say Elder Orson Pratt is here and
will speak to us.  I feel to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of the work we are en-
gaged in, and to do whatever I am called
upon to do.  May God bless you all. Amen.”
 Pres. Serena Aagard, from Levan, said:
“I am pleased to say the members of the 
Relief Society of Levan are alive to their
duties in blessing and comforting the poor.
There is a good spirit prevailing in our
meetings. We are getting material  to-
gether to build a house to meet in, the
brethren are doing all in their power to
help us in this matter.  I pray God to help
us to perform our part in the great work
in which we are engaged.  Amen.
Pres. Goldsbrough asked if there was any
one present to represent Mona, but there
was not.  She then said she was pleased
with the sisters of Mona branch; they are
doing all in their power to promote the in-
terest of the Society.
Elder Orson Pratt said: “I have not been
accustomed, only on very few occasions, to 
speak to Relief Societies, but do not wish
to shrink from any duty that devolves upon
me. I feel glad that the Lord, through
His servents, has seen fit to organize more
extensively the Relief Societies, which
were first organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph.  The sisters are not called
to preside over Church Conferences and do
the work the brethren are called to do, but
they can labor in their own sphere and ac-
complish all that the Lord designs them to
do. I have no doubt the Prophet Joseph
was inspired of God to organize these so-
cieties.  God in His wisdom considered
that man could not perform all the duties
that were necessary to be performed alone;
the Lord designed that they should work
together for the mutual good of both. I
have no doubt but the Prophet Joseph saw
that an organization of this kind was nec-
essary in order that the abilities of woman
may not lie dormant.  Woman does not 
perform all her duties by attending to her
household affairs: the Lord designed that
they should have opportunities to do all the
good their hearts desire to do.  There is a
greater object than laying up grain (which
is very commendable both in the brethren
and the sisters to do), but this is a small
thing compared to the greater ones.  When
the Lord intrusted to you the children, sent
from the presence of God, first intrusted to
your care that they may be raised in the

fear of God and be brought up as they
should be, remember they need training
in their infancy!  This duty devolves on
the mother; she has all the responiibili-
ties of their early training, the father is
away attending to other duties.  Sisters, as
your children come to years of accounta-
bility you have the responsibility of instill-
ing the principles of eternal life in their
hearts; teach them the object of their be-
ing; teach them that it is necessary, when
they choose a companion to live with to all
eternity (not merely for time, but for all
eternity), that they should be dictated by
the Spirit of God.  God has decreed from
before the foundation of the world that
eternal union in marriage is necessary.
The men that are in our midst, who will
flatter and try to lead you away, my sisters,
or marry you, what can they offer you even
in marriage?  What can you expect outside
of this kingdom?  Sisters, it is your duty
to instruct the young in the principles of
our holy religion; if they are cared for and
properly trained very few will go astray.
The Apostle Paul said the man is not with-
out the woman in the Lord, neither is the 
woman without the man; we must enter
the Celestial world together; we can not
obtain Celestial glory unless we are joined
together by proper authority.  The Lord
intends there shall be an eternal relation-
ship between husband and wife.  We must
begin our work here and not go into the
spirit world ignorant.  If man alone per-
formed all the duties, how could they be
suitable companions for each other?  He
has permitted woman to be a helpmate to
man, and has continued male and female
upon the earth up to this time, and evi-
dently designed that both should perform
their part.  He calls Apostles to preside,
and Seventies and High Priests, &c., but
this does not relieve woman from her du-
ties.  In our spiritual existence before we
came here, we understood what the privi-
leges of these spirits were; there was quite
a difference between the spirits that came;
we understood that the First-born would
come and be the Redeemer.  We looked
upon our Savior as the only person that
could come and redeem the world. Our
<qux t="" spiritewer.e="" reserved="" from="" before="" the="" foun.="" dation="" pf="" this="" world,="" to="" come="" forth="" at.="" time,="" when="" the.fujnes3="" o.f="" his="" gospel="" shpald="" v="" i.="" be="" restored.="" wo="" camp="" in="" a="" state="" of'="" .forget,-;.vj.="" fulnessy="" are="" learning="" lesson;'oyer="" .="" again="" that="" v.o="" have="" learned="" before,="" tp="" ,test..="" our="" integrity.="" x="" will="" venture="" prophecy,="" .time="" that,="" therpjw1iu)ibp="" 1="" no="" such="" thing="" known="" a?="" thftqhildrenp.f="" people="" dishonoring="" law="" of.="" god,'="" but;="" through="" .the="" proper.="" ,="" training="" they="" shall="" ;re="" ceive,="" grow="" up="" ;in="" purity="" lord.="" may-="" gpd.="" edd;="" ihjs,.blessing,;="" amen.="" -="" )..="" --="" thp="" authorities="" af="" ;the="" jpab="" relief="" socipi;="" ”"ty="" stake="" organization;="" weie="" ..presented'="" by7="" ;="" pres.="" teasd,ale,="" aud="" unammou3ly="" spstaiued-="" singing.="" ..‘.benediction="" by;rro.="" geqrge.’een-="" dal!.="" <].="" -a="" y;4="" marxrltchfpeta,;secjy,n.,j="" ;l="" fjt.="" ?="" la.="" h.="" biglkt.cor.="" .secjy.j;!="" bhl="" 3fi="" iv<="" div="">spirits were reserved from before the foun-
dation of this world, to come forth at this
time, when the fulness of his Gospel should
be restored.  We came in a state of forget-
fulness, we are learning the lesson over
again that we have learned before to test
our integrity.  I will venture a prophecy
<qux t="" spiritewer.e="" reserved="" from="" before="" the="" foun.="" dation="" pf="" this="" world,="" to="" come="" forth="" at.="" time,="" when="" the.fujnes3="" o.f="" his="" gospel="" shpald="" v="" i.="" be="" restored.="" wo="" camp="" in="" a="" state="" of'="" .forget,-;.vj.="" fulnessy="" are="" learning="" lesson;'oyer="" .="" again="" that="" v.o="" have="" learned="" before,="" tp="" ,test..="" our="" integrity.="" x="" will="" venture="" prophecy,="" .time="" that,="" therpjw1iu)ibp="" 1="" no="" such="" thing="" known="" a?="" thftqhildrenp.f="" people="" dishonoring="" law="" of.="" god,'="" but;="" through="" .the="" proper.="" ,="" training="" they="" shall="" ;re="" ceive,="" grow="" up="" ;in="" purity="" lord.="" may-="" gpd.="" edd;="" ihjs,.blessing,;="" amen.="" -="" )..="" --="" thp="" authorities="" af="" ;the="" jpab="" relief="" socipi;="" ”"ty="" stake="" organization;="" weie="" ..presented'="" by7="" ;="" pres.="" teasd,ale,="" aud="" unammou3ly="" spstaiued-="" singing.="" ..‘.benediction="" by;rro.="" geqrge.’een-="" dal!.="" <].="" -a="" y;4="" marxrltchfpeta,;secjy,n.,j="" ;l="" fjt.="" ?="" la.="" h.="" biglkt.cor.="" .secjy.j;!="" bhl="" 3fi="" iv<="" div="">that the time will come that there will be
no such thing known as the children of this 
people dishonoring the law of God, but
through the proper training they shall re-
ceive, they shall grow up in purity before
the Lord.  May God add His blessing.
Amen.
The authorities a[-] the Juab Relief Socie-
ty Stake organization were presented by
Pres. Teasdale, and unanimously sustained.
Singing.  Benediction by Bro. George Ken-
dall.
MARY PITCHFORTH, Sec'y,
A. L. BIGLER, Cor. Sec'y.


EPHRAIM RELIEF SOCIETY.

	QUARTERLY CONFERENCE. 

	A Quarterly Conference of the Ephraim
Relief Society was held here on the 16th
and 17th of Nov., 1878, at which Confer-
ence Pres. John Taylor, Apostles Orson
Pratt, Erastus Snow and Joseph F. Smith
were present, from whom we received ex-


cellent instructions, both on co-operation
and the Saints dealing righteously with
each other. On the principle of righteous-
ness Bro. Joseph F. Smith particularly in-
sisted.
	The following report, from Aug. 17, '78,
to Nov. 16, '78, was read and accepted:
Received in sundries				$ 70 20
Sunday eggs, 125 doz.				25 11
Gleaning 27 bu. wheat				13 50
By sale of cheese, quilts, &c.			36 50
		Total					145 31
Cheese made for Society by the sis-
	ters,							600 lbs.
	Disbursements.
To the poor for rent, in storepay,
	provisions, &c				$40 00
Cheese on hand for the Temple		500 lbs.
Wheat stored for Zion				800 bu.
On hand and for sale, six homemade shawls.
			A. S. ARMSTRONG, Sec'y.


Y. L. M. I. A. REPORT.

			ROCKVILLE, Nov. 30th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We would like to be remembered in your
columns once more. We are situated in a
little, isolated place, but nevertheless we
feel it our duty to strive to become one with
our sisters in adding our mite to build up
the Kingdom of Heaven, and perform our
part in benefitting each other, and do that
which becometh daughters in Zion.
	We are trying to fulfill our mission; and
much praise is due some of our members,
who are the mothers of several small chil-
dren, for their regular and punctual attend-
ance; we think they are weaving for them-
selves a bright future, and "in that day
when the Lord comes to make up his jew-
els" they will be accepted. We enjoy our-
selves in meeting together to talk of the
blessings of our Father in heaven, for a
good spirit prevails and we feel that we are
obeying His commands, and that gives joy
and satisfaction to the faithful. We have
united with the young men in donating for
a library, consisting of about thirty volumes
suited generally to our wants. We hold
our meetings weekly in winter, and during
the summer semi-monthly for working and
semi-monthly for reading and speaking.
We have been afflicted a great deal this
summer with sickness, which has com-
pelled us to postpone our meeting together
for a season, but as the Lord overrules all
things for our good, we hope it will be the
means of waking us up to a sense of our
duties, and learn to live nearer the Lord
and serve Him more diligently. Your
paper is always a most welcome visitor and
is read with increasing interest.
	Praying that the blessing of God may
attend your efforts to publish peace and
good will we remain
		Your sister,
			HENRIETTA STOUT, Pres.


MADAME CAZAMJOU, the eldest sister of
"George Sand" has just died in France.
The death is also announced of the Com-
tesse de Saint Andres, the widow of the 
celebrated Spontini. She was a woman dis-
tinguished both for her wit and her beauty.
Chateaubriand spoke of her as a "woman
who of all others best knew how to say
amiable things with grace and noble famil-
iarity."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CRADLE SONG.
Softly croning a lullaby song,
Softly singing the whole day long,
Softly murm'ring, mother-love strong,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Busily working, now swift, now slow,
Busily planning how baby should grow,
Busily thinking- while soft and low-
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Lovingly folding the muslins down,
Lovingly kissing away each frown,
Lovingly smoothing the tresses of brown,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Forgetting that time will swiftly fly,
Forgetting that years will surely sweep by,
Forgetting that blossoms will sometimes die,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Praying so earnestly God's sweet smile,
Praying with heart so free from guile,
Praying so trustfully all the while,
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
Goodby, little mother with daintiest grace.
Goodby, little baby with flow'ret face,
Goodby, these words time cannot erase.
Baby is sweet,
Baby is sweet,
Sweetest blue eyes,
And dimpled feet.
SYDNEY.


<r darkregion="" omespair.="" them="" they="" will="" -geefliieirprror,="" but="" cannot="" rectify="" it,="" the-time="" be="" past.="" jjot="" afraidicto-enter="" into="" ,plural="" mar-="" iagp,="" fordhq="" ,j.orihwui="" -prftyidft.jor="" those="" wri="" oj="" d="" p="" ji="" i="" 3,;w="" ill="" apdoiveepohiscom="" mand-="" offifiu="" o="" jt="" ©="" is="" :="">[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
			POLYGAMY.

	I have been blessed to have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide my thoughts from my
childhood. It was at that early period of
my life I became a believer in polygamy.
When about eight years old my father gave
me a Bible, and my mother told me to read
it through, and believe it. I began to read,
and my attention was drawn to the fact that
men in those days had more wives than
one, and that God was not displeased with
it. I wondered, and puzzled my childish
brain for the reason that men should have
but one wife in the present age of the
world. I dared not ask any one, for fear
that I would get laughed at, but came to
the conclusion that as Abraham, Jacob,
David, Solomon, and others had more wives
than one, and that they were good men and
the Lord loved them; it was the natural
order. But why it was changed was an
unsolved problem, to be solved at some fu-
ture day by the truth being revealed.
	I built many an air castle with a dear
playmate, gathering in fancy all the favor-
ite girls, and saying that we would all have
one husband and live together. Alas! for
air castles! The last I heard of Mary she
was enjoying single blessedness, and won-
dering how I could believe in plurality of
wives.
	I believe that children think more of
getting married than most people surmise,
and that the reason we so seldom hear them
speak of it is that they are afraid of a
laugh and rebuke.
	When I was twelve years old the im-
pression was made upon my mind that in a
few years I would find out that the ancient
order of marriage would be established
again. It always seemed right to me,

[Column 2]
while, as I grew up, and read of the evil
practices existing, my spirit abhorred evil
and was disgusted with vice.
	There is no comparison between the
heavenly principle of Celestial Marriage,
that leads through the gates of the city of
the New Jerusalem, and the infamous prac-
tices of the degraded, that lead to death
and destruction. One is exalting, the other
debasing. Polygamy schools a person (if
rightly lived), until jealousy and envy are
swept away from the heart, and a feeling
of peace and love dwells therein.
	When eighteen, the revelation on Celes-
tial Marriage had just been published. I
read it, and my mind being already pre-
pared, I readily believed it; but the princi-
ple of sealing was new, and troubled me.
I clearly saw that if I did not join the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
I could not be united with my husband
through eternity, as I had fondly hoped. I
had previously thought our own vows for
eternity, after marriage, would be binding.
I saw that unless I believed the Gospel,
my hopes were vain. I had wished to
know what Mormonism was from curiosity,
but this, the first principle I received, set
me to inquiring earnestly how to go to
work to join the Church. I saw that this
Gospel was true, that it was from God, and
I felt not to delay the day when I should
come into the Church. I was told baptism
was the way. My husband had been in-
vestigating Mormonism, and believed it,
and we were baptized, and my joy was full.
I believed then, as I know now, that this
revelation on Celestial Mariage was from
the Lord, and I have been blessed in be-
lieving it.
	The outsiders say our marriages are not
marriages; but it is exactly the contrary.
Their marriages are only binding until
death, ours reach into eternity. Ours are
the only valid ones, solemnized by the au-
thority of the priesthood—our children the
legitimate children of the new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	The great cause of trouble in plurality
is the selfishness of women. It is natural
not to like to see another loved by the ob-
ject of our devotion. We are selfish and
narrow-minded in this, and think of our-
selves alone, but if we open our hearts to
the Spirit of God we will overcome this
spirit of evil, and if true love exists in our
hearts for our husbands the burden will be
easy, and we shall be desirous that our
husbands should obey this command of God,
and reap a rich reward.
	Jealousy springs from a love of our own
dear selves, and we look upon others as in-
truders, and by indulging in this miserable
feeling repel the love which we might en-
joy, and then imagine much that does not
exist, and make ourselves unhappy. Where
jealousy creeps in between a husband and
wife the consequences are always unhappi-
ness, and frequently blame is attached to
innocent ones when it is our own fault, by
giving way to the hideous spirit of jealousy,
that makes us unlovely and unlovable.
Many a woman pines with grief at the ap-
parent coldness of her husband, when the
beam is in her own eye and she cannot
clearly see. The coldness is in her manner
and she can discern nothing but faults in
her husband. Jealousy makes women act
unwisely; it takes away the noblest facul-
ties of the mind and plants unpleasant feel-
ings, prompted by the Evil One, to bring
destruction upon her. Prayer will over-
come it, for the Lord will not suffer that
one who prays earnestly for its banishment
shall suffer long the excruciating torment
of jealousy.

[Column 3]
	I bear my testimony that polygamy is
true—that this principle was revealed from
the heavens to bless both men and women,
and to crown them with glory. Persecutors
may persecute, laws may be made, but they
will not prevail, for they are antagonistic
to the laws of God, and we will obey the
divine command of heaven revealed by
Celestial Marriage, fearless of consequences.
Right is on our side, and might cannot
overcome it. Boldly, firmly let us obey
this righteous law, and let our enemies
howl; but the day will come, that if they
do not repent it will be worse than monoga-
my with men. As they have railed against
plurality and persecuted the Saints of the
Most High God for believing in this holy
order, they will have no wife to keep them
company in the dark region of despair.
There they will see their error, but cannot
rectify it, the time will be past.
	Be not afraid to enter into plural mar-
riage, for the Lord will provide for those
who do His will and keep His command-
ments. It is honorable in all, and brings
the blessings of the Father to His obedient
ones.			EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George, Nov. 10, 1878.


THE QUESTION.

	The papers of late have been teeming
with doings of the Anti-Mormon Crusade.
Why all this fuss, all this ado, about the
Mormon women? What charitable act of
kindness do these so-called Christian Ladies
of Utah think they are bestowing upon the
wives and daughters of the Latter-day
Saints? Are we serfs in a Republican gov-
ernment, that we cannot have the liberty
of serving God according to the dictates of
our own consciences? Or are we true-born,
loyal American citizens, many of us reared
under the flag of boasted freedom and lib-
erty, whose banner we hail with delight
and respect? If we are, let us have those
rights that we claim, and save yourselves
further trouble concerning our welfare.
	We love our husbands, we love our chil-
dren, we love our homes, and last but not
least we love our God, who has preserved
us when the so-called Christian denomina-
tions drove us from our homes to the far
West. Here the desert has been made to
blossom as the rose, homes have been made
for saint and sinner; and now, woman
seems to antagonize woman—a sad and
strange picture.
	If I understand the character of woman,
I would say all that is pure, virtuous and
ennobling, in its nature are, or should be,
her characteristics. Then why should you
charitable ladies seek to petition oppression
on a law-abiding and God fearing people.
	Is there anything more unholy in celestial
marriage where it is sacredly practised than
there was in the days of former Apostles,
Prophets, &c., believing God to be an un-
changeable being, knowing that He is the
same yesterday, to-day, and forever? I
fail to see the difference. I think it would
be well for all who are ignorant of the
principles of Mormonism to examine with
a pure and contrite spirit before they jump
at too Hasty conclusions.
	As wives of Latter-day Saints we are
satisfied with our position, and think the
Christian ladies of Utah could find a wider
field to labor in if they would look nearer
home and help put down some of the
abominations that are practised, such as
abortion, drunkenness, prostitution, &c.
	Wishing that all who seek the overthrow
of Mormonism will please observe the Mor-
mon Creed—Mind your own business.
	A MORMON WOMAN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
		A MERRY CHRISTMAS.

	The EXPONENT cordially extends to all its
readers, friends and patrons, young and old,
in whatever nook or corner of the broad land,
on this and the other side the Atlantic, in the
islands of the sea, on the Asiatic shore, to one
and all, the old-time greeting, "A merry Christ-
mas" and a happy one. We sometimes wonder
what the world would be like without a holi-
day season. Oh, the tender recollections called
forth as these days make their annual round.
They savor of childhood even in old age; and
they invariably bring their train of pleasure
and of pain. "Pleasure is born of pain," the
poet says, and life's lessons daily assure us all,
that joy and sorrow are twin sisters and walk
hand in hand.
	There certainly should be holidays, if it was
only for the children's sake; they look forward
with such genuine delight and childish expect-
ancy, and the anticipation is full of gladness,
almost surpassing the reality; and we are not
so sure but most older people have an intuitive
relish for the simple pleasures customary on
such occasions. There is much exquisite joy
and satisfaction in bestowing happiness on
those beloved, and there is truly pleasure that
passeth understanding almost, in associating
with dear friends and kindred at these holiday
re-unions. Many tender and precious memo-
ries, which the human heart holds in its sacred
embrace, are reawakened as friends meet and
exchange their kindly greetings; and the songs
and tales of "long ago" rush back again, until
memory's page is vivid with "the light of other
days."
	Many who have little time in the busy tide
of every day life for the cultivation of those
genial attributes of the soul, which are most
productive of true happiness, are thus awak-
ened and brought to a sense of the affection
and duty which they owe to their kindred and
friends, and feel the keenest enjoyment in
mingling in sweet intercourse with them, and
living over again the scenes through which
they have passed while separated from each
other. There is always much that is pleasant
to recount, much to be grateful for, and if there
are some deep griefs and heavy sorrows, there
is also sweetness and tenderness in the sympa-
thy of those who have hearts alive to the woes
of others.
	In the sacred and sweet ministrations of
charity there are various avenues open. There
are many hungry and cold and cheerless ones
in this world—poor, aye, yes, poor in that which
makes the truest riches; and there are tender
deeds and gentle acts, which fall like the dew
of heaven upon the hungry and yearning
hearts of those, who, like the modest poor in
worldly goods, make no complaint the world
may ever hear. God sometimes sends his com-
fort to such in ways which seem mysterious,

[Column 2]
and heart speaks to heart, and joy springs up
spontaneously as hands are touched that thrill
the inmost soul, and poor, weak mortals know
not why; but when the time of universal love
on earth shall come, then they who have en-
dured will endersta[-]d life's mysteries.
		The primal duties shine aloft, like stars,
		The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless,
		Are scattered at the feet of man, like flowers.
	The finest spiritual sense alone can detect
the true interpretation of the wonderful lessons,
which God is teaching in his own way, to those
who in humility and grace desire to compre-
hend His goodness and His love, and walk in
wisdom's ways. "For all her paths are pleas-
antness and all her ways are peace."
	But we will come back to tangible realisms.
Gifts and deeds of love and kindness that are
apparent; those which make the eye sparkle
with keen appreciation and warm the heart,
and those which cheer the body and minister
to its physical needs. When the storm rages
without, or the cold frost is biting—when old
Boreas whistles his shrillest notes, when the
fire crackles on the winter hearth and all is
bright and cheerful within the home of plenty
and good cheer, then forget not, ye favored
ones, those who sit cold and desolate beside the
empty hearth-stone, or wander homeless, house-
less, friendless and neglected—and spare not
your charities, but extend the helping hand—
deal bountifully to the poor of God's mercies to
you, so shall it be measured to you again in
like measure full and running over with bless-
ings. O sit not down in plenty while the poor
are cheerless, but scatter blessings while you
may, so shall your Heavenly Father remember
you when the day of trial comes, as come it
must and will to all. "Such," says the Savior,
"shall be mine when I make up my jewels."
	There is no truer pleasure than that which
follows a generous and noble action.
	Our heart goes out in tender pity deep and
strong to the thousands of friendless women—
wronged, cast out and abandoned—with no
real homes, perchance no shelter, no little chil-
dren, whose soft hands caress them lovingly
not even on this Christ's day—and we pray in
sincerity, God help them, and show them the
better way, and feed them with the bread of
life, and forgive them, for they are bitterly,
foully wronged and sinned against, and man-
made laws give them no sure protection and no
redress, while their pitiless betrayers and ac-
complices in crime walk unscathed and fearless
in the broad light of heaven, and some sit in
high places with crowns of worldly honor, but
God reigns and will avenge the wrongs of wo-
men betrayed and abandoned, on the heads of
those who are guilty of these foul deeds.
	This is a sad theme and s[-]arce befits thoughts
of holidays, but Christ's advent meant "peace
and good will" to all mankind, and forgiveness
to the erring ones who ask the Father, believ-
ing on His name and trusting in His divine
atonement, and doing the works which He did,
that are a pattern for all to follow. Then,
while the Christmas days are passing, and glad
hearts twine the evergreen and holly, while
gifts and pledges of affection pass from hand to
hand, and those who rejoice make merry in the
song and dance and social intercourse, and joy
sits smiling on the lap of plenty, and little
children romp and play and laugh, and older
ones join in the sports and pass away the glad-
some hours, we trust all such will share their
comforts and their luxuries with those whose
lot is lowlier, but who are still God's children,
molded in His image, and whose wants and
needs are just as great though unsatisfied—
whose longings for the infinite are still the
same, though the outward form be clothed in
humblest apparel.
				E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE RELIEF Society of North Jordan (M[-]s.
Eliza Spencer, President) report to us that they
held a meeting Nov. 3d, 1878, in which the sis-
ters freely expressed themselves on the subject
of Plural Marriage, protesting against the
Anti-Polygamy Crusade, endorsing the views
and ideas of those who spoke in the Mass Meet-
ing in Salt Lake City.  The Resolutions adopt-
ed in that meeting were read by the Secretary
of the Society and adopted unanimously.
	MISS M. A. Rockwood of this city, who has
been successful in silk-reeling, is teaching in
that department of silk manufacture.  She
gave us a call recently with two of her pupils,
Miss Tavy Pierce of Brigham City and Miss
Anne Clark of American Fork.  Each of the
girls brought with them specimens of their
work, which were very fine both in quality and
color, some just suitable for weaving, and
several colors of sewing silk ready for use.
Even these small efforts are commendable, and
as it is a trade, or branch of business suitable
for woman's employment, it is hoped many
will take hold of it.  Miss Clark is only twelve
years old, and she has learned rapidly.
	WE ARE indebted to the courtesy of Bro. W.
J. Silver for a specimen of the medals to be
awarded as prizes by the Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society.  The medal is
about the size of the silver dollar, and has the
symbol of industry (the bee-hive) upon one
side with the inscription "Deseret Agricultural
and Manufacturing Society, organized 1856;"
on the other side is a wreath very exquisitely
executed, and "Awarded to best."  The med-
als are the workmanship of Bro. Silver, an
enterprising and skillful machinist.  The en-
graving is by Mr. John Druce.  The design
and execution are both neat and appropriate.
	THE CITY is donning its holiday attire, the
market places are teeming with varieties of
good things, in the way of fruits, vegetables,
meats, fish, fowls and luxuries; and the mer-
chants pile high and higher their stores of mer-
chandise, and tempt the passerby with taste-
fully decorated windows.  Ornaments and toys
of every conceivable shape and form, from the
smallest trifle to the most elegant and costly
article are staring at one on every side; indeed,
one must walk blindfold not to be conscious
this is Christmas time.  What a contrast to
the Christmas of thirty years ago, when a few
hundred exiles, with their little ones, supped
on scant and homely fare and thanked God
who had brought them where they could en-
joy life, liberty and freedom of conscience.
	PROF. ED. Adolph respectfully announces to
the ladies of Salt Lake City that he is prepared
to teach them the art of Drawing, Cutting and
Fitting Dress Patterns in every style. This
art is made available by scientific study for the
present and future time and is of more value,
it is said, than any made use of by Mantua
Makers, and needs no preliminary study to
learn it.  To draw a correct Dress, Basque,
Polonaise, or coat Pattern, you need only paper,
pencil and a common drawing rule.  The
printed directions explain the drawing,
and the original sheet, which he will draw, has
every line drawn and a written explanation on
each line.  Prof. Adolph is a member of this
Church, and has recently gathered to this
place. He is anxious to get pupils in his busi-
ness in order that he may earn a livelihood.
He has no acquantances to  interest themselves
for him, being a foreigner (by birth Russian)
and a total stranger here.  Several ladies in
Ogden have learned the art of cutting, etc.,


from him, and are greatly pleased with the
success of his theory. His residence is South
Temple St., second house West of "Juvenile
Instructor" Office, at Mrs. Hawkins.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MASS MEETING.

Of the Ladies of Utah County, held in the
	Meeting House, Provo City, Dec. 7th, 1878.

	Mrs. Mary John called the attention of the
audience. On motion, Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot
was chosen president, and Mrs. Caroline Dan-
iels and Lucy W. Kimball secretaries,
	After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs. J.
O. Duke.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot explained the ob-
ject of the meeting—to declare our sentiments
in regard to our holy religion, and to protest
against the "anti-polygamy petition."
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball then read the peti-
tion referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. H. A. Beebe, a committee
of seven ladies were appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, namely:
Mrs. H. A. Beebe, Amanda McEwan, Jane
Jones, Annie K. Smoot, Sarah A. Scott, R. A.
Holden and Miss Tennie Smoot.
	After the withdrawal of the committee, Mrs.
M. T. Smoot said it is a worthy cause that
calls us together: we have received the princi-
ple of plural marriage, and incorporated it in
our religion and lives as a revelation from God
We have many things to encounter. Ladies
from the east have come here and have given
us the credit of busy, honest and frugal women.
Why cannot our sex allow us the privilege of
the husbands of our choice? No one is con-
strained from this privilege among us; we live
in unity with our husbands and one another.
We are not all saints, but we vary no more
than monogamic wives. We can trust our
husbands and know they act upon the com-
mands of God. We should be let alone. We,
as wives of latter-day saints should speak our
minds. We want no legislation in our behalf,
but wish it known by all, that there is one
above who revealed this law for our observ-
ance and he will legislate for us. 
	The committee on resolutions returning,
their report was read, also the resolutions
which were in substance as adopted by the
Sisters of Salt Lake City, with the addition of
the following:
	Resolved, That we the women of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of Utah
County, in mass meeting assembled, fully en-
dorse the preamble and resolutions passed by
the women of latter-day saints in mass meet-
ing assembled in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16th,
1878.
	Mrs. Mary John read an address in support
of the principle of plural marriage and of non-
interference by parties not affected by its prac-
tice.
	Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff said: We have assem-
bled as women of this county, to protest against
the infringement of our religious liberties,
and protest against any movement on the part
of Congress to injure our franchise or that of
our husbands. Many years ago, our people fled
from their homes, traveling through a desert.
This we preferred to yielding the religious con-
victions of our souls. God was with us and
preserved his work. Shall we yield our faith
in Him through whose help we have received
our now peaceful homes? No, never. We
have confidence that through the help of God
this attack like others will be productive of
good. They call that which is pure a crime.
Think of it sisters! The majority of mankind
may not feel polygamy consistent with their

[Column 2]

feelings, but it will be found that those most
opposed to it are impure. In justice to all we
hold dear, let us hold firmly to that we have
espoused.
	Mrs. Hannah Booth read an address in
which, in sound logical argument, she held to
the truth of the position in favor of plural
marriage, and non-interference; also Mrs.
Amanda McEwan read her views on the sub-
ject endorsing the resolutions of the meeting.
Mrs. H. A. Beebe could not refrain from enter-
ing her protest against the anti polygamy peti-
tion. Knew that the religion of the saints was
true and from God, she had been absent from
the Church some 30 years, and was knowing to
the evil practices of the world; knew full well
what was meant when she heard the women
of the world speak of the inconvenience of
children. The Gentile ladies of Salt Lake and
elsewhere could plainly see as they thought the
mote of polygamy in Utah, but failed to see
the beam of infanticide of such magnitude in
the east.
	Mrs. Rula Holden revived the memories of
those who first inaugurated tae principle of
celestial marriage, facing the world in its super-
stition and darkness. She was the daughter of
an American citizen who had fonght in the
revolutionary wars, and would not submit to be
disfranchised of her rights, religious or politi-
cal, without raising a voice against it.
	Mrs. Marilla Daniels read an address follow-
ed by the reading of the sentiments of Mrs.
Matilda E. Loveless.
	Mrs. Zina Young Williams was introduced
as the daughter of a polygamist and the widow
of a polygamist, and said after such an introduc-
tion I would be a feeble vessel if I did not bear
witness to the truth of the principle of our re-
ligion assailed by our enemies. That I am the
daughter of a polygamist, and entered into that
holy order of celestial marriage as a wife, is
true; and I glory therein. If all the ladies of
the United States stood before me I would still
say so. I pity those who are the tools of the
adversary of mankind. But we cannot tamely
submit to be trodden upon in our rights, and
we will not, but will protest against it. The
day will come when those who now oppose us,
will come bending for our aid, and we will ex-
tend it to them. This feeble crusade is a sec-
ondary consideration to the need of us watch-
ing our own lives and actions. The principle
the world so much condemns is one that is ele-
vating to our sex, making better women out of
good, and women, of those who would be but
babies all the days of their lives without its les-
son. We will bear our offspring in purity,
and fill these vales with God's children. May
we prove to ourselves and to the world that our
desire is for the elevation of our sex.
	Mrs. L. W. Kimball said: I am the grand-
daughter of a man who fought and was wounded
for the liberty of our country, and when I re-
member his bent form and stories of victory, I
cannot but claim my rights as an American
citizen, and as one of the first to enter the
order of plural marriage, having done so by
the command of High Heaven. The ladies of
the East would not persecute us if they really
knew us. We have become inured to persecu-
tion, but when our sex rise up against us, I
feel grieved indeed. God, in whom we trust,
will defend us if we live pure lives before
Him. My father was wounded at the Huans'
Hill massacre. I leave you to picture the
scene as he presented himself at our door with
his wounds. My husband was martyred—cut
down in his early manhood. Can I forget this
and overcome my feelings? Talk of loyalty
and nobility. Look at the wives before me,
who have stepped forward and said, "husbands

[Column 3]

do your duty in obeying this revelation of plu-
ral marriage and I will sustain you in doing
so." May God bless and help us in the dis-
charge of the duties we owe ourselves and
each other.
	Miss Caddie Daniels read a poem written for
the occasion by Mrs. Caroline Daniels.
	Miss Tennie Smoot said, I am proud to ac-
knowledge my parentage as the daughter of
a fourth wife. My father is a man whom I
revere and love. We have rights that the
country must respect. The anti-polygamists
would deny us all claims to them. They view
it that polygamy is not a portion of our relig-
ion, but they should know full well that it is
an essential part thereof. It would be far bet-
ter for the anti-polygamists, instead of coming
here to oppose our religion, to stay at home and
watch their own husbands, lest perchance they
should not keep to the path of virtue. 
	Mrs. Margaret N. Doosenberry said, the
former speaker is my sister. I love her, al-
though she is not my mother's child; but she
is the child of my father, and I love her with
all the sisterly regard and affection that I have
for any and all of the balance of my sisters and
brothers. I protest against any interfence in
our family ties, they are endeared to us and I
claim they are pure, and protest against the
petition of the anti-polygamists.
	Many other ladies raised their voices on the
occasion, protesting against the movement of
the anti-polygamists which threatened the
rights which they held dearer than life itself.
	The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by the unan-
imous vote of the ladies assembled.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by the wife of Bishop John Brown,
and the meeting adjourned sine die,	A. J.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at her residence, North Ogden, on
Thursday, Nov. 14, at the age of 66 years, Su-
sannah Hurst Maycock. Deceased, while vis-
iting her granddaughter on the Monday pre-
vious, accidentally fell, receiving injuries which
caused her death. She emigrated from Eng-
land in 1849, and came to Utah in 1852. She
was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
and Sunday School, being a faithful teacher in
both from their first organization in this place.
She was truly an able advocate and firm sup-
porter of the principles of the Gospel.
			JULIA A. WADE, Sec'y R. S.
	North Ogden, Hot Spring District.

			HOYTSVILLE, Dec. 1st, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Miss Emma Gunn died at Hoytsville, Nov-
14, 1878, of Epilepsy, aged 15 years and 6
months. She was a member of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
Hoytsville. She was a faithful teacher, and
loved and respected by all who knew her.
She was an amiable young lady, full of energy,
and ever willing to do anything that was re-
quired of her. We all (members of the Asso-
ciation) feel to mourn her loss, and to sympa-
thize with the bereaved parents. She died in
full faith of a glorious resurrection.
			M. E. H., Sec'y Y. L. M. I. A.


A NEGRO woman in Virginia, 71 years
old, recently took it into her head to learn
to read, write and cipher; so she entered a 
school, and regularly every day brought ten
cents which she paid to the teacher.  She 
got along very well until near the close of 
the second week, when she "missed herles
son," and was ignominiously kept in during 
recess.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS.

	When reading the account of the Mass
Meeting of two hundred Gentile ladies
of Salt Lake City, with a view to put down
polygamy, I involuntarily asked myself the
questions—Why this new crusade?  Why
this new phase of persecution?  Why this
new departure from old established customs
and habits (for it has been the habit for men
to lead in persecution)?  Is it because the
Evil One has tried so many plans, and all
have failed to move the Saints in the least?
or is it because he thinks women are weak
and he can make an easy tool of them?
	While I was pondering these things in
my heart, these words of Scripture came
forcibly to my mind.  "They are left to be-
lieve a lie, that they all may be damned
who obey not the truth, and take pleasure
in unrighteousness."  Could those women
see what they are doing and the conse-
quences if their plans were carried out, I
think most of them would stop and ask
themselves if it would pay; I think they
would take time to reflect before proceed-
ing further.
	I was much pleased with the remarks of
our sisters in their mass meeting, and cor-
dially endorse the sentiments expressed by
them, and I believe most of the sisters
throughout this Territory would do the
same. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when so many thousands are
ready to rise up and testify boldly to the
truth.
	I came into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in an early day, when our
numbers could not be counted by hundreds,
and I did not then expect I should ever see
such an array of witnesses for the truth. I
thank the Lord that he has spared my life
to see the present time, and I feel truly
thankful that our sisters have taken such a
bold stand for truth and righteousness.  We
know we are right when we resist such en-
croachments upon our civil rights—rights
that are guaranteed unto us by the grand
and noble Constitution framed by our fore-
fathers.  I feel sure this crusade will come
to naught.  God is at the helm of this king-
dom; He watches over His people, and He
has promised that "no weapon formed
against them shall prosper."  Is not that a
blessed promise?  Sisters, let us be faithful,
to our God; let us always be found using
our influence for good; seek at all times to
be guided by the Spirit of the living God,
and then we need not fear what our ene-
mies can do.
	JOANNA C. TEEPLES
	Holden, Millard Co., Dec. 3, 1878.


[Column 1]

RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety of Spanish Fork was postponed from
July 2d to Oct. 17, in consequence of sick-
ness in the family of our beloved President,
Sister Mary Ferguson.
	Sisters Zina D. and Martha B. Young and
Emmeline B. Wells were present by invi-
tation; the meeting house was tastefully
decorated for the occasion with specimens
of ladies' work, both useful and ornamental.
After opening remarks by the President
the Annual Report was read, which showed
a total of receipts by donations and other-
wise for the past year amounting to $271 37;
disbursements, $334. 03. The Society has
210 bushels of wheat stored in a good sub-
stantial bin; a brick building is in course
of erection, to be used for a meeting house;
233 members are enrolled. A feeling of

[Column 2]

union exists, which indicates a healthy and
prosperous condition. After the Financial
report was read and accepted, the President
stated that the sisters often met and worked,
and thus increased the value of material
donated; hence the difference between the
receipts and disbursements.
	Sister Z. D. Young was much pleased
with the report; it brought to her mind
the first Society that was organized. Our
object should be to save souls; we are a
practical people. Urged mothers to find
suitable employment for their girls, and be
sure to keep them from Salt Lake City,
where there are many temptations for the
young. Advised the girls to study the
harmony of colors, and dress in a suitable
manner. Also spoke of the influence
mothers exert over the minds of their chil-
dren. Gave much valuable instruction and
many useful suggestions, especially in re-
gard to the silk-industry; was pleased to
see so many mulberry trees in Spanish
Fork.
	Sister M. B. Young felt that there were
good sisters here, and advised them to at-
tend to their prayers three times a day.
Believed many present would live to see
the Savior come. Advised the sisters to
store up grain, raise silk, &c. Spoke also
upon the County organization, and upon
many other principles pertaining to our
salvation, and concluded by blessing the
sisters.
	Sister E. B. Wells was suffering from a
severe cold, but was much pleased with her
first visit to Spanish Fork; said she had
many dear friends here. Said there is a 
great field of labor and honor for the women
of Zion, but we must prepare ourselves for
it; it will not come to us, we must develop
our talents, use our capabilities, and learn
the lessons of life. Some have thought
the women of Utah will become extremists
in politics and neglect home and its duties,
but she felt there was no danger of that
while we had the Spirit of God and the
Holy Priesthood for a balance. The women
of the world are watching to see what we
will do with the suffrage—how it will bene-
fit woman as a class. Let us use it wisely,
and seek to understand this government,
and make good use of all our opportunities.
Mothers should be awake to the necessity
of training their children, and teach them
the principles of the Gospel and how to ap-
ply them in their lives.
	Closing remarks were made by President
Mary Ferguson, who announced a meeting
in the evening.
	Evening meting.—Opening remarks
were made by Pres. Ferguson, who said
the object of the meeting was to organize
a Primary Society, to be composed of chil-
dren; she would leave the organization
with Sister Z. D. Young.
	Sister Young then rose and gave much
valuable counsel and instruction to the
young, and said the success of the Primary
Association depended upon the mothers.
A vote was then called to know if the
mothers wished such an organization. The
vote was unanimous. An organization was
then effected, with the following officers:
	Mary Ann McClean, President,
	Agnes Lewis,		Counselors,
	Almira Stoker,
	Emily Snell (11 years old), Secretary,
	Miss Hannah (11 years old), Ass't Sec'y. 
	The officers were then set apart by Bish-
op Snell and Counselors, after which Bishop
Snell made some very appropriate remarks.
	Sister M. B. Young then addressed the
children.

[Column 3]

	The meetings were largely attended by
both sexes, and all felt edified and grateful
to our sisters who had come to visit us, for
their labor of love; and we pray that the
blessing of God may ever attend them in
their endeavors to help in the establishment
of the kingdom of God on the earth.
	At the present date the Primary Asso-
ciation numbers 225 members, and is creat-
ing much interest under the able manage-
ment of its President. The young secreta-
ries are doing their part well. 
	HANNAH CORNABY, Sec'y.
Spanish Fork, Nov. 23, 1878.


THOUGHTS ABOUT BOOKS.

	It is a common error to date book mak-
ing and the beginning of literary enlight-
enment from the time of the invention of
printing in the Fifteenth Century. There
are many people, otherwise well informed,
who have an idea that the world is indebted
solely to the printing press for the rich lit-
erary treasures it possesses, and who enter-
tain a vague belief that until its use a dense
cloud of ignorance overhung all the nations
of the earth. A recent writer in one of the
leading English magazines makes the
astonishing statement that the "genius of
Gutenberg and Faust heralded the day,
after a long intellectual night that had its
beginning with creation." How utterly
senseless and foolish such language is, any
schoolboy knows, or ought to know. Print-
ing is merely a change in the manner of
production. Books were made and read
thousands of years before the day of Guten-
berg, and multitudes of authors have flour-
ished and been well known of the people
in all the centuries since the first historical
record was written.
	There is evidence that a high state of
civilization existed in Assyria three thous-
and years ago, and that literature flourished
in the ancient cities of Nineveh and Baby-
lon as extensively and successfully as it
does among us to day. The discovery a
few years ago of the library of Assurbanipal,
King of Assyria 700 B. C., gives us a fair
idea of the character of the books of that
time. They consisted of tablets of clay,
varying in size from an inch to nine inches
long, covered with characters, in some
cases so minute that they could only be read
by the aid of the microscope. After years
of patient study the key to this last method
of writing was discovered, and the contents
of these innumerable and singular books
were laid open to the world. They consist-
ed of historical records, chronological, and
astronomical tablets, religious treaties,
grammars of various languages, works upon
science, art, social regulations and customs,
the laws and general literature. These
inscriptions were stamped from engraved
blocks, a fact which shows that large num-
bers of copies must have been made, and
must have been extensively manufactured
and commonly read by the people of that
time.
	Greek literature, says a modern writer,
began in a period of indefinite antiquity[-]
as long ago as 1000, B. C. the art of poetic-
al composition existed in the highest per-
fection. The admirable structure and the
wonderful language of the Homeric poems
imply a long period of antecendent culture.
Books of that day were written upon papy-
rus, and were copied by professional scribes.
The inner bark of trees was also used,
and sometimes the leaves of the palm
Vellum, leather and parchment, differently


prepared skins, were used later. The Chi-
nese have a literature dating back more
than 3,500 years. The "Book of Changes,"
one of the revered Chinese classics, made
its appearance 1150 B. C. The books of
this nation were made for many centuries
of bamboo tablets. About 300 B. C. the
present style of writing with a brush was
introduced, silk having taken the place of
the tablets. Two thousand years ago the
imperial library of China consisted of 3,123
volumes of classics, 2,705 on philosophy,
1,318 of poetry, 790 on military affairs, 2,528
on mathematics, and 868 on medicine.
Printing in China was invented near the
close of the Sixth Century, nearly 900 years
before it become known in Europe. In
ancient Rome the literary needs of the peo-
ple were abundantly supplied by the pen.
Professional scribes were numerous, and
papyrus paper was cheap. Books were
made faster than they could be sold, to the
great disgust of some of the noble Roman
authors. The scribes whose manual labour
produced these books were educated slaves
and so efficient in their craft that type and
presses could hardly have made books more
common. Long before the Christian era
the poet Horace complained because his
books were in the hands of everybody.
	The form of ancient books differed with
the materials from which they were com-
posed. Tablets and leaves of metal and
lead were of the same square form as our
books to-day; when flexible materials like
papyrus and parchment came into use, it
was found convenient to make them in the
form of rolls. The internal arrangement
of books has undergone many modifications
since the earliest times. At first there was
no division of words, all the letters in the
line running together. Gradually the sep-
aration took place, and by degrees, in the
course of time, a work was broken up into
sentences and paragraphs, and punctuated.
	The immense libraries formed in ancient
times are proofs of the abundance of books
and the general condition of literature in
the various countries of Asia and Europe.
The famous Alexandrian library, founded
nearly 300 B.C., contained 700,000 vol-
umes. The library of the king of Perga-
mus, 200,000, and there were numerous
libraries, public and private in Rome,
Athens, Samos, and other cities in Greece,
Egypt, Spaiu and Italy, numbering from
10,000 to 50,000 volumes. The library
founded by Constantine at Constantinople
contained 120,000 volumes, and that at
Cairo is said by Arab writers to have held
1,600,000 volumes. There were other great
libraries in Bagdad, Tripoli and Fex. Un-
der the Moors, Spain possessed 60 public
libraries, the principal one, that at Cordova,
containing 406,000 volumes. Most of these
collections were destroyed in the wars,
which devastated the various countries and
cities where they existed, the remnants
which escaped owing their preservation to
being concealed in convents and monaster-
ies.—Book Bulletin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORDS TO BOYS.

	I would keep "better hours" if I were a
boy again; that is, I would go to bed ear-
lier than most boys do. Nothing gives
more mental and bodily vigor than sound
rest when properly applied. Sleep is our
great replenisher, and if we neglect to take
it regularly in childhood, all the worse for
us when we grow up. If we go to bed
early, we ripen; if we sit up late, we de-
cay; and sooner or later we contract a dis-
sease called insomnia, allowing it to be per-


manently fixed upon us, and then we begin
to decay, even in youth. Late hours are
shadows from the grave.
	If I were a boy again, I would practise
to perseverance oftener, and never give up a
thing because it was hard or inconvenient
to do it. If we want light, we must con-
quer darkness. When I think of mathe-
matics I blush at the recollection of how of-
ten I "gave in" years ago. There is no
trait more valuable than a determination to
persevere when the right thing is to be ac-
complished. We are inclined to give up
too easily in trying or unpleasant situations,
and the point I would establish with myself,
if the choice was again within my grasp,
would be never to relinquish my hold on a
possible success if mortal strength or brains
in my case were adequate to the occasion.
That was a capital lesson which a learned
Professor taught one of his students in the
lecture-room after some chemical experi-
ment. The lights had been put out in the
hall, and by accident some small article
dropped on the floor from the Professor's
hand. The Professor lingered behind, en-
deavoring to pick it up. "Never mind,"
said the student, "it is no consequence
to-night, sir, whether we find it or no."
"That is true," said the Professor; "but it
is of grave consequence to me, as a princi-
pal, that I am not foiled in my determina-
tion to find it." Perseverance can some-
times equal genius in its results. "There
are only two creatures," says the Eastern
proverb, "who can surmount the pyramids
—the eagle and the snail."
	—Ex. 	JAMES T. FIELDS.


THE ELEVENTH Annual Washington
Convention of The National Woman Suf-
frage Association will be held in Lincoln
Hall, 9 and D. Streets, Washington, D. C.,
January 9 and 10, 1879. The Riggs[-] House,
corner 15th and G. Streets, will be the
head-quarters of the delegates, where all
may first report. It is hoped and expected
that private entertainment will be secured,
and delegates entertained free of charge.
The Association invite women from all
parts of the country. They ask that those
who think they will be at the Convention
to report as soon as possible to the Corres-
ponding Secretary, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Fayetteville, New York, who has such
names in charge. Contributions to the
Convention are to be forwarded to Ellen
Clarke Sargent, Treasurer, 1733 De Sales
St., Washington. Letters to the Conven-
tion should be addressed to the Cor. Sec.,
care of Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 7 Grant place,
Washington. Delegates are requested to
meet for consultation at the house of Belva
A. Lockwood, woman lawyer, 619 F. Street,
at 7 o'clock, Tuesday evening, Jan. 7, 1879.


SANTA CLAUS IN NORWAY.—The presen-
tation of Christmas gifts in Norway is the
chief diversion of the season, and in this
many strange customs are observed. Thus,
in some districts the gift is hid in a truss
of hay or straw, or sometimes it is placed in
a bag of chaff. The donater then watches
his opportunity, and slyly fixes the truss of
hay above the door of his friend's room.
When the latter enters, the hay falls on
him, to the great enjoyment of the kindly
conspirators, who are probably watching
close at hand. Then ensues an eager and
exciting search. The truss is ripped open,
hands thrust in and out through the straw
or hay till the gift is found, at which mo-
ment the donaters generally disclose their
presence by shouts of delight, and the ex-


pressions of good wishes for the season and
the year to come. The bag of chaff is also
a source of endless and innocent merriment.
In its fall from the top of the door, it covers
the receiver with a cloud of dust, and small
particles that adhere to his beard enter the
fur of his coat,and make him feel as uncom-
fortable and look as ridiculous as can well be
desired by the most ardent prompters of
practical jokes. But as he opens his eyes,
he at once notices lying in the mass around
him a welcome present which has been se-
creted in the chaff. It may well be im-
agined with what delight children join in
this rough play, and how it materially as-
sists to pass the long winter season.


OVERSTRAINED HEARTS.

	No organ in the body is so liable to be over-
worked as the heart, according to a writer in
Chambers' Journal. When every other part of
the body sleeps, it keeps on its perpetual motion.
Every increased effort or action demands from the
heart more force. A man runs to catch a train,
and his heart beats audibly. He drinks wine and
his blood rushes through its reservoir faster than
ever was intended by nature. His pulse rises
after each course of dinner. A telegram arrives,
and his heart knocks at his side. And when any
one of these 'excitements" is over; he is conscious
of a corresponding depression— a "sinking" or
"emptiness," as it is called. The healthy action
of all the members of our frame depends upon the
supply of blood received from this central fountain.
When the heart's action is arrested, the stomach,
which requires from it a large supply of blood,
becomes enfeebled. The brain, also waiting for
blood, is inactive. The heart is a very willing
member; but if it be made to fetch and carry in-
cessantly—if it be "put upon," as the unselfish
member of a family often is, it undergoes a dis-
organization which is equivalent to its rupture.
And this disorganization begins too often nowa-
days in the hearts of very young children, parents
know that if their sons are to succeed at any of
these competitive examinations which have now
become so exigent, high-pressure is employed.
Hence young persons are stimulated to overwork
by rewards and punishments. The sight of a
clever boy who is being trained for competition is
truly a sad one. These precocious coached-up
children are never well. Their mental excitement
keeps up a flush, which like excitement caused
by strong drink in older children, looks like health,
but has no relation to it.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	What an English Physician says About the
Properties of Wild Sage:
	As I was leaving home to fill
my mission in this country, I met Mrs. M. J.
Coray, who requested me to have a bottle of "wild
sage oil" tested by some of the experts of the
country. Being acquainted with the eminent Dr.
Skelton, of Bradford, I submitted a sample for
his analysis and testation; and in a letter to
me received the following:
	"What the chemical constituents of the oil are,
I cannot tell you; its medical properties, however
are stimulant, diaphoretic (power to increase pers-
piration) and expectorant, (tending to promote
discharges from the lungs or throat.) It is also a
good emmenagogue. It acts especially upon the
throat in all its various inflammatory conditions,
whether of the tonsil fauces asphyxia, or laryn-
gitis, it is equally useful. I have tried it in the
cases named, and have found it invaluable."
		Thomas Child
36 Clarence St., Bedford, England, Oct. 8th, 1878.


GEORGE HENRY LEWES, the philosopher,
and husband of George Eliot, is dead.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIRST QUARTERLY Meeting of Primary As
sociation of Farmington, held Dec. 7th, at two
o'clock p.m. We were honored with the pres-
ence of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Mary Schettler
and Ellen S. Clawson of Salt Lake City. Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark, Superintendent of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Davis Co., Mrs. Hortensia Leonard,
President of the Relief Society of Farmington,
and a number of the parents of the children
were also present. Of the brethren, Bro.
Christensen and Bro. James Loynd, organist.
We had a very good time, although the
weather was inclined to be stormy. After
singing, prayer, and call of roll, the Quarterly
Report was read by the Secretary, Miss S. E.
Richards.
	Report: The Primary Mutual Improvement
Association of Farmington was organized Aug.
11th, 1878, with a President, two Counselors,
Secretary and Assistant Secretary. The first
meeting not being quite successful, we date
our commencement from Sept. 7th. Number
of members two hundred and fifteen. Meet-
ings held, thirteen. Average attendance, sev-
enty. In the course of the term the children
were called upon for a five cent donation to
get means to buy a Record book, stationery,
and Reward of Merit cards. The sum of three
dollars and seventy cents was collected, in-
cluding a donation by the President; Counsel-
ors and Secretary of twenty cents each; also
twenty-five cents given by Sisters Mary S. and
Nancy A. Clark.
Paid towards book....................................$.70
Stationery.................................................. 25
One hundred cards of the Ten Command-
	ments........................................................ 1 00
Two hundred cards Reward of Merit....... 1 75
	The exercises of the meetings are similar to
the following; Singing, prayer, call of roll, re-
marks made, local questions asked, and an-
swered in concert; select readings, and explan-
ations made; singing and recitations by the
members; reciting some of the commandments
in concert; a few general remards, then sing-
ing, prayer, and adjournment.
	After the report was read, recitations were
given by two little boys; two songs were sung
during the services. The rest of the time was
taken up by remarks from the sisters. The
children being delighted with the questions
asked them.
	A. S. Rogers, President,
	S. E. Richards, Secretary.


"GRACE GREENWOOD" in one of her
agreeable letters from abroad, speaks of the
Old Paddington Church Yard in London,
where are buried a number of noted per-
sons. First Sarah Siddons, the queen of
English tragedy, lies in the most desolate
part of the yard, immediately on the walk,
without a tree, plant, or bit of turf near it.
Here also is the simple altar-tomb whereon
lies the figure of John Bunyan. Thackeray
and John Leech lie under plain altar-tombs
almost side by side. Tom Hood's is near
by, surmounted by a bronze bust. Over
Leigh Hunt's grave is a marble bust, said
to be marvellously like him. A little away
from Hunt's grave is that of "Sophia, wife
of Nathaniel Hawthorne." Isaac Watts the
Christian poet, and Macready the actor, are
also buried in this venerable old grave-yard.


[Column 1]
MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
	Professor Bell’[-] Te[-]ephone, and Professor Edison’s
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

[Column 2]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of 
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878

AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durab'e white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,	
ju[--] received from the Provo Mills. Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jeans, Yarns. Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware Shoes, Dixie  [-]otton Batting, and other goods,  
at the Commission House. 	
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Residencc—Ephriam, Sanpete County. 
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and disease's of
women.

THE LAMB KNITTING MACHINE AGENCY.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South  
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
		Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc,
at Reduced Prices.	 
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,	
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.	 
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.	
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Picturcs of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to	  C. R. SAVAGE,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Above Dr. H. J. Richards & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-o[--]rative Store. 
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every	Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
	Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

[Column 3]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-	
ference to call at her show room and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice 
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Prushes. Velvet and Rib
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers
please call Ladies’ Hair Work in all its branches. Good 
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL.
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings’ Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Rome Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from 
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find 
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every
thing pertaining to a first class Millinery Establishment
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed 
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.  Wm. Jennings,Vice-Pres’t.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward Salesroom and factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who d[-]sire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
WM. H. ROWE.
	SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 1, 1879.	NO. 15.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN OF ZION.

Where fifteen hundred women thronged,
	To answer back a listening world—
A people by their kindred wronged,
	'Gainst whom men's bitterest threats were buried;
'Gainst whom all hearts did seem at war,
	From women at their firesides' cheer
To men whom nations' rulers are—
	I, listening, their words did hear.

Here, where from persecution's might
	The poor, or titled exile, found
A home, and did in love unite,
	And by most solemn pledges bound,
By legacy their country blessed
	With right of "life, liberty,
And the pursuit of happiness"
	To their free-born posterity.

Ere yet have passed away from earth
	The last sons of that century grand,
The sacred record loses worth,
	And "might, not right," uplifts the hand.
And while scarce yet have died away
	The words our patriot grandsires spake,
Their ingrate heirs ignore, to-day,
	And strive the sacred will to break.

How proud the nation's sons to pay
	Their homage to its hundred years!
And welcomed to the natal day
	The titled guests of both the spheres.
But we, the outcast heirs, must wait,
	Disowned, despised, without a voice
In her proud hall, "outside the gate,"
	While strangers at the feast rejoice.

Have patriot's children right to speak?
	Have martyr's children right to pray?
Then we, the hunted, hated, weak,
	Something in our own cause may say.
Shall it count nothing unto us
	That our great grandsires fought and died
For our land's liberty, because 
	Our creed from their's may differ wide?

I saw, among the multitude,
	Women from every Christian land—
E'en from the islands' solitudes,
	And from the India's heathen strands—
Who left the idol and the cross,
	Drawn by the Gospel's sacred spell,
To follow Christ; nor count it loss
	To do His will, whate'er befel.

I saw, and knew the histories
	Of those who rank had laid aside,
And choosing God's high mysteries;
	With bleeding feet crossed deserts wide,
Drawing their hand-carts day by day.
	Through wind and rain and bitter snows,
'Til, famine-stricken by the way,
	Their comrades' graves like furrows rose.

Heritage of ancestral lands
	And ships at sea they counted nought;
But kneeling on the barren nought;
	Oft on dry crusts His blessing sought.
And women, driven from their own hearths,
	Fleeing before a mob's decree.
Have 'neath the bleak sky given birth
	To heirs of our grand liberty.

And cradled in their wagons rude,
	Rocking o'er trackless prairies wild,
Each breathed the free air's balmy mood,
	And grew to manhood, God's own child.
And can the souls thus forged in fire
	Of outraged laws and human woes,
E'er wear the bonds of tyrant's ire,
	And all their mountain freedom lose?

Beside America's dead sea
	Their weary pilgrimage did end;
And in the desert's heart set free,
	In the red man did find a friend.
And from the parched and salted ground
	Invoked the slumbering life to wake;
And from the mountains old and brown
	The hidden crystal springs to break.

Then answered to the hand of toil
	Fair garden homes and forest fields;

[Column 2]

And e'en the canon's rocky soil
	To man her silvery treasure yields.
But scarce these blessings are secured
	Ere those we could not dwell among,
Ignoring all we have endured,
	With envious eye and venomed tongue

Survey the scene, and with well feigned
	Sense of shocked honor, and of fear,
Issue throughout our broad domain
	A call for holy crusade here.
But undismayed, and trusting HIm
	Who led them through the trial-path,
Though memory-pangs the eye might dim
	They heard God's praises in man's wrath.

Nor feared to speak, though well they knew
	What test their words must undergo;
But strong in heart, with purpose true,
	Their reasons for their faith dared show.
And brave as their colonial stres,
	Who cast aside the British yoke,
The smouldering embers of the fires,
	Patriot and martyr, in them woke.

And men and women, foes at heart
	To what these women dared to speak,
Heard truths that pierced them to the heart,
	And drove the quick blood to the cheek
Remember, then, O ye, who heard
	Words Zion's daughters spake that day;
Nor hush the impulse that they stirred,
	Oppression's cruel hand to stay.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 8, 1878.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.

	It would severly tax the memory of the
oldest inhabitant," to recall a more dis-
tructive and wide spread storm than that
of last week.  From all parts of the Middle
Atlantic and New England States, as well
as the St. Lawrence Valley, come distress-
ing accounts of its ravages.
	A train was wrecked at Sewall's Falls, on
the Montreal Railroad, on the night of the
10th, by a wash-out; and on the Central
Vermont Railroad a train was throwu into
the gulf of an undermined culvert near Bar-
tonsville, killing instantly two persons and
fatally injuring another, while several
others received serious injury.
	The destruction of railroad and highway
bridges by freshets was enormous.  All the
large river courses were the scenes of the
greatest damage.  The Upper Delaware and
Susquehanna were swollen many feet above
their highest water-mark.  In the State of
New York the Hudson and its tributaries in-
undated the towns on their banks, inflicting
immense loss, destroying canal locks, large
and small vessels, barges and dwelling-
houses, and sweeping from wharves and
docks all kinds of moveable property.  Hun-
dreds of families have been rendered tempo-
rarily homeless.
	The storm extended across the Atlantic,
leaving a heavy fall of snow on the south-
west coast of England.  On the twelfth the
heaviest snow storm known for years pre-
vailed through Central and Western Mis-
suri, Iowa and Kansas.  The depth varied
from three to thirty-five inches.  Railroads
are generally obstructed.  The Mississippi
was bridged by ice at Rock Island.
	"The Watchman" Dec. 19, 1878
	Boston Mass.
	PETITIONS tor the Sixteenth Amend-
ment should be sent as early as possible to
Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, Washington,
D. C. 

[Column 2]	
	MARTHA WASHINGTON was the only wo-
man who ever enjoyed the franking privi-
lege in this republic.  April 3, 1800, after
her husband's death. Congress gave her free
use of the mails during the rest of her life.
	THE GRAND duchess of Hesse Darmstadt,
Princess Alice of England, died on Satur-
day, December 14th, of diptheria. The
grand duchess was the third child and sec-
ond daughter of Queen Victoria.  She was
born April 25, 1843. Her father, the late
Prince Albert, died on Saturday, December
14, 1861.
	THE PROJECT of a railroad across New-
foundland, that would shorten by one thou-
sand miles the ocean voyage from America
to Europe, is being agitated.  Among the
incidental benefits of opening such a rail-
way, is named the vast deposits of copper,
iron, coal, nickel, lead, and other minerals,
and the cut through the immense pine and
spruce forests of the island.—Ex.
	THE ELEVENTH Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Lincoln Hall, 9 and D streets
Washington D. C. the 9, and 10, of this
month. The Association invites women
from all parts of the Country.  Letters for
the Convention should be addressed to Cor-
Sec. Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, care of El-
len H. Sheldon No. 7, Grant Place Wash-
ington.  The Convention is one which we
feel greatly interested in and trust that the
struggle now being made by the brave
hearted women of America, to promote the
elevation of the sex and bring woman up to
the side of her brother man as a help-mate
and co-partner in all that pertains to the
best interests of both may result in victory;
and that when woman has the ballot
through-out this great nation, there may be
a diminuation of grog shops and dens of in-
famy "that bye and bye" there may be a
reign of peace on the earth.
	STATISTICS OF WOMAN'S LABOR.—The
Massachusetts report of statistics of labor,
in many respects a valuable and interesting
volume, makes one extraordinary mistake.
In summing up the non-producing or inde-
pendent classes in Massachusetts, it counts
up, together with 1,787 "retired from busi-
ness," 5,691 "infirm," and 505,905 children
under fifteen years of age, the item extra-
ordinary of 328,198 housewives.  Apropos
to this fiction that the housekeepers are a
"supported" class, comes the journal of one
day's work by a farmer's wife, who believed
in the seventeen hour law, and who never
struck for higher wages than her board and
clothes. "Rose at 4.30, skimmed the milk,
fed the chickens, got breakfast ready at
six.  Dressed the baby, washed the dishes, 
made the beds, killed the chickens, baked,
ironed, got the dinner.  After dinner went
to the field and dropped corn till it was
time to get tea.  After tea, put away the
milk, washed the dishes, fed the chickens,
sewed buttons on the husband's shirts,
mended the stockings, watered the house-
plants, crimped the ruffles on baby's Sunday
frock, and left off at 9.30, having forgotten
nothing, that ought to have been done ex-
cept patching the hole in the mitten."—
New North West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 7, 1878, was spirited
and interesting. Coun. B. W. Smith pre-
sided. Minutes of the Junior and Juvenile
Associations were read, which showed a
growing interest in the Gospel among the
children and young women of Zion. Mrs.
B. W. Smith made opening remarks, re-
ferring to the pamphlets which the sisters
had published of the proceedings of the
Mass Meeting at the Theatre; said she be-
lieved they would be the means of doing
good abroad. She had mailed copies to six
different States where she had relatives and
friends. She closed by saying she would
suggest to the speakers that they make
spirited but short speeches. Mrs. S. M.
Heywood, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. Prescinda
Kimball, Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough, Mrs.
M. A. Freeze and Mrs. Martha Needham
each made remarks; the subjects dwelt
upon were plural marriage, the training of
children, duties of mothers, the need of
faith and prayer, and other things pertain-
ing to the life of a Latter-day Saint.

	ALMY, WYOMING TER., Nov. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Davis visited
this place on Nov. 3d, and at one of our
meetings on that day they organized a
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation at this place. We can truly say
that our hearts rejoiced to see so many step
forward to become members of the organ-
ization.
	We held our first meeting Nov. 7th, and
we had a good attendance and received
same good instructions from Bishop Bouns
and others of the elder brethren and sisters.
They advised us to be orderly, obedient
and united, and we should see the time
that we should bless the day that Sisters
Snow and Davis paid us a visit. We num-
ber thirty-eight members. The following
are the names of officers:
	Mary Ann Henery, President,
	Mary Jane Ball,
	Elizabeth Bruce,	Counselors,
	Mary Brown, Secretary.
		Very respectfully,
			MARY BROWN, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 11th. 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel that I should be omitting a sacred
duty if I were not to bear my humble testi-
mony, through your valuable paper, to the
good times we are enjoying here in Utah,
compared with the poverty and distress now
being endured by the masses in the world.
We should be truly grateful for the bless-
ings we enjoy, that we are here, where our-
selves and children are free to enjoy the
blessings of life, and where all can at least
have plenty of food to eat, and raiment to
wear, and where when we have become aged
and not able to earn our own livelihood;
there is something better than a paupers
home, or a paupers-grave awaits us.
	I have lately returned from a visit to my
native land, England; where I can truly
say, I have witnessed more poverty, dis-
tress and drunkenness, in one short year
than I had ever imagined in the quarter of
a century I had previously spent in Utah.
What a contrast! here the servants of God

[Column 2]

are striving to save the human family, both
temporally and spiritually. There, the great
aim is to destroy, true there are some who
are trying to benefit mankind but how puny
is their effort without the true guide. the
strong arm, the spirit of God, the priesthood
on which we lean for support. The Latter-
day Saints in Europe seem to be more alive
than ever to the importance of gathering
"home," and all who have the spirit of our
holy religion, are striving with all their
might to emancipate themselves and fami-
lies, though many have very little prospects
apparently of being able to do so; yet they
will often say, "I have faith that the way
will open for us soon," and it is often mar-
velous to them, how the way will open.
	I will here relate an incident that come
under my notice, a young girl left her par-
ents in the spring of the present year, to
join her brother who had previously come
to Utah. I saw her mother some weeks
afterwards, she had just received a letter
from her daughter, written after her arrival
here; after telling her of the bright pros-
pects before her, she urged her parents to
come if possible, at any sacrifice; she told
them there was plenty here for all, that they
were not afraid to eat all they wanted, for
fear the bread would not last, for when it
was all gone they could soon make more,
neither were they afraid the butter would
not last the week out, for when that was
all gone they could go to work and churn
more, for there was always plenty. The
parents then had very little prospect of com-
ing, but they had faith, and at last a kind
friend was raised np for them, and they
came with the last company this year, and
are made happy with their children and
<fcbplr; children="" and="" with="" the="" people="" of="" (jjocl="" imagine="" con-="" trast!="" compare="" this="" state="" tilings—it="" you="" can?‘witfr="" poverty="" distress,="" tpat="" is1'="" r="" in="" tjio.="" world;="" jslhe="" least="" itppbrtaufr="" part'ofit;="" there="" it="" is="" cqrhparativfely,="" bliiftfii’bdlng="" blind"they="" thinkthly="" qre="" 'abihg="" all"that="" required="" o’fthem="" when1="" “="" theyatterid="" their="" popiilar'rhbblinotice'a'="" week,="" and.pontess="" thathey="" are="" mifeserable;-="" juuui.uic="" uusci="" uaa="" giycu.="" ua="" fho="" worldkhpws="" not="" of,="" that="" nptmrg="" but="" our="" own="" actions="" can="" rob="" us'="" of,°="" then'="" ought="" hve="" fb="" rejoice?="" 1="" ivd="" often,="" think="" we="" tried,="" '="" so="" wbave="" fof="" aur1="" own!!”;="" purification="" hencq1="" arc"the="" qhe3jbercfif-t="" ed.="" rf="" ‘="" sisfqrk.="" who="" havbirtendsafid'relatives="" inthbjcmirch="" clcf="" country,”="" deslre'‘to'come,="" have'notgot="" 'thq="" hieang1'-="" helpf="" them,’if="" can;="" dov-not="" forget;!="" ioif="" behind.="" i="" will="" promise="" uintvu="" quch="" remembrances="" be="" appreciate="" t0'="" did="" have="" privilege="" of'ifilngliug,!,‘'="" u="" nntnif="" t?="" n="" no="" vrvimri="" saints="" england="" as="" ‘much,x'u1="" should="" ohbsen;="" know="" vlsitorsre-’="" ate="" expense,'="" saints'="" tq&fo<arr="" mostly1="" poor,31="" felt="" it'would="" bp="" wisdoiji="" for="" inerio'="" abstain="" to="" a="" certain="" exteptfrom'9'11="" visiting="" them,="" knowing="" i’ulnes1="" ft="" tlibir="" hearts="" generou="" hospitality="" an1="" their,="" desiring="" to'entertain="" me,="" pister="" from="" uta'h;-="" thby="" might-be="" led="" to:="" impoverish="" themselvesj'for'="" time1="" being,="" 'h6n6o!="" v.="" called="" bn'="" tlidm="" oecasionally1,="" encouraged="" thein="" fo="" hiivo="" faith="" 'they="" might="" ,="" he";'-="" privileged="" soon="" gather="" with’jhe="" g.aints="" ziou.="" many="" looking="" forward="" 'fp="" th'o'="" time="" when="" they="" do="" so;="" only="" the"="" poor,="" those="" meurisbre="" afraid="" well="" off="" hero="" us="" there,="" poqriand.="" meek”="" to.="" inherit="" kingh="" jlom.="" choping="" one.of.="" number,.15="" remain,="" &,c.’="" v="" -="" ;="" .r.if.="" e.="" bull.="">with the people of God. Imagine the con-
trast! compare this state of things—if you
can, with the poverty and distress that is
in the world; and this is the least important
part of it; there it is comparatively, "the
blind leading the blind," they think they
are doing all that is required of them when
they attend their popular meetings once a
week, and confess that they are misserable
sinners. How much they are to be pitied;
and how very much have we to be thank-
ful for, the Gospel has given us that, that
the world knows not of, and that nothing
but our own actions can rob us of, then
ought we not to rejoice? We often think
we are tried, and so we are for our own
purification, hence we are the ones benefit-
ed.
	Sisters, you who have friends and relatives
in the church in the "Old Country," who
<fcbplr; children="" and="" with="" the="" people="" of="" (jjocl="" imagine="" con-="" trast!="" compare="" this="" state="" tilings—it="" you="" can?‘witfr="" poverty="" distress,="" tpat="" is1'="" r="" in="" tjio.="" world;="" jslhe="" least="" itppbrtaufr="" part'ofit;="" there="" it="" is="" cqrhparativfely,="" bliiftfii’bdlng="" blind"they="" thinkthly="" qre="" 'abihg="" all"that="" required="" o’fthem="" when1="" “="" theyatterid="" their="" popiilar'rhbblinotice'a'="" week,="" and.pontess="" thathey="" are="" mifeserable;-="" juuui.uic="" uusci="" uaa="" giycu.="" ua="" fho="" worldkhpws="" not="" of,="" that="" nptmrg="" but="" our="" own="" actions="" can="" rob="" us'="" of,°="" then'="" ought="" hve="" fb="" rejoice?="" 1="" ivd="" often,="" think="" we="" tried,="" '="" so="" wbave="" fof="" aur1="" own!!”;="" purification="" hencq1="" arc"the="" qhe3jbercfif-t="" ed.="" rf="" ‘="" sisfqrk.="" who="" havbirtendsafid'relatives="" inthbjcmirch="" clcf="" country,”="" deslre'‘to'come,="" have'notgot="" 'thq="" hieang1'-="" helpf="" them,’if="" can;="" dov-not="" forget;!="" ioif="" behind.="" i="" will="" promise="" uintvu="" quch="" remembrances="" be="" appreciate="" t0'="" did="" have="" privilege="" of'ifilngliug,!,‘'="" u="" nntnif="" t?="" n="" no="" vrvimri="" saints="" england="" as="" ‘much,x'u1="" should="" ohbsen;="" know="" vlsitorsre-’="" ate="" expense,'="" saints'="" tq&fo<arr="" mostly1="" poor,31="" felt="" it'would="" bp="" wisdoiji="" for="" inerio'="" abstain="" to="" a="" certain="" exteptfrom'9'11="" visiting="" them,="" knowing="" i’ulnes1="" ft="" tlibir="" hearts="" generou="" hospitality="" an1="" their,="" desiring="" to'entertain="" me,="" pister="" from="" uta'h;-="" thby="" might-be="" led="" to:="" impoverish="" themselvesj'for'="" time1="" being,="" 'h6n6o!="" v.="" called="" bn'="" tlidm="" oecasionally1,="" encouraged="" thein="" fo="" hiivo="" faith="" 'they="" might="" ,="" he";'-="" privileged="" soon="" gather="" with’jhe="" g.aints="" ziou.="" many="" looking="" forward="" 'fp="" th'o'="" time="" when="" they="" do="" so;="" only="" the"="" poor,="" those="" meurisbre="" afraid="" well="" off="" hero="" us="" there,="" poqriand.="" meek”="" to.="" inherit="" kingh="" jlom.="" choping="" one.of.="" number,.15="" remain,="" &,c.’="" v="" -="" ;="" .r.if.="" e.="" bull.="">desire to come, and have not got the means
help them, if you can; do not forget those
left behind. I will promise you that all
such remembrances will be appreciated. I
did not have the privilege of mingliug
with the saints in England as much as I
should have chosen; I know that visitors cre-
ate expense, and as the saints there are
mostly poor, I felt that it would be wisdom
for me to abstain to a certain extent—from
visiting them, knowing that in the fulness
of their hearts and generous hospitality in
their, desiring to entertain me, a sister from
Utah, they might be led to impoverish
themselves, for the time being, hence I
called on them occasionally, and encouraged
them to have faith that they might be
privileged soon to gather with the saints in
Zion. Many are looking forward to the
time when they can do so, but it is only the
poor, those who have means are afraid they
will not be as well off here as there, but the
"poor and meek" are to inherit the King-
dom. Hoping to be one of the number, I
remain, &c.
	E. BULL.


PRACTICAL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS. 

	With a sounder education our girls are
finding a more vigorous life. They are be-
ginning to get a glimpse of what work
means, of the sweetness, the elevation, the
dignity it adds to existence. There will
not be work enough in the world for wo-
men when they once discover what a key
it is to worlds unknown, what it holds for
them of expansion, of enjoyment, what an
arena it will spread out before them.
	The reign of the dirty and dishonest
cooks is short; they may make the most of
their present chance; the peculations and
dishonest work of a class of dressmakers
will shortly come to an end, for the bright
girls of the present generation will not
stand it when they feel the ability and
know how to mend it. Some of the pret-
tiest girls belonging to the best families
have shown what they can do during the
past summer in the interior of Maine, in
the mountains of Pennsylvania and the
nooks of the Catskill. A majority of them
have prepared their own wardrobes; some
have taken it upon themselves to fish and
"forage" for the "shanty" and others have
done the cooking.
	Cooking clubs will undoubtedly be a rage
this winter, and lunches at which the food
is prepared by the young hostess, assisted
more or less by her guests. Those how-
ever, are recreations; the solid part of it is
that girls are beginning to put their facul-
ties to some use; that, instead of dawdling
over fancy work, they are beginning to
make their own dresses; instead of flaunt-
ing the street, preparing flimsy finery,
they are painting, carving, improving and
decorating their homes, and even in some
instances putting themselves seriously to
the task of teaching younger brothers and
sisters. All this is so good that one can
only hope it will become more general.
Practical work ought to enter so much more
than it does into education, it is so health-
ful, so necessary to full development, it
teaches so much more than can be taught
by text books and abstract methods.
	What our girls learn experimentally they
never forget. But what has all this to do
with fashion? More than we think. It is
to this change we owe the spirit in which
the costume has been received, the sensible
dresses seen at even the most fashionable
resorts in the mountains, of plain wool,short
and simply made and trimmed. It has
even affected the more frivolous, sea-side
resorts; has induced stylish belles to re-
place their trailing silk robes with compar-
atively short dresses of inexpensive organ-
dy, barege and dotted muslin, and will re-
lieve many a struggling despondent man of
a burden daily becoming more and more
difficult to be borne. Nor have the girls
lost anything. Certainly they are handsom-
er in their fresh, useful dresses than they
ever were before.	JENNY JUNE.
	—The American Home.


HELLER, the magician, is dead.
	English steel pens are almost entirely
made by women.
	BISHOP SIMPSON has been made president
of Drew Theological Seminary, N. J.
	In the printing offices of New York City
over 1,500 women and girls are employed.
	The Jews feel the effect of the movement
for women, and will bring their mothers
and female members from their accustomed
seat behind the rail and out of sight, to sit
in the pews with men.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
	A DREAM OF MEMORY.

I wonder why I should sit here and dream,
By the glowing hearth, on a wintry day,
And fanciful things so real should seem,
While my thoughts go wandering far away,
Till I catch a glimpse of a little child,
Roaming alone through a forest wild.

She's gathering bunches of evergreen,
And wreathing in garlands the trailing vine;
A beautiful picture she makes, I ween,
Under the boughs of hemlock and pine;
"A Happy New Year," she's gladly singing,
And through the woods the echo is ringing.

She gathers some moss, and lichen, and ferns,
And lily-valleys from under the snow,
And homeward her footsteps at last she turns,
Her bright young face with pleasure aglow.
Strange this little girl should wander away
Alone, while others are busy at play.

She looked like a fairy woodland queen,
As she tripped along with childish grace;
The wild flowers twined with the evergreen
Made a tableau grand of her sweet young face.
She haunts me in shadow and twilight hour,
And touches my heart with a magic power.

I wonder what makes her linger so near,
Awaking the visions of "Auld Lang Syne;"
The breath of the very wild flow'rs is here,
And the evergreen clings to this heart of mine;
I can e'en see the footprints in the snow,
Yet 'twas nearly forty, long years ago.

S. L. City, Dec. 2, 1878. 	EMILE.


A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

		         CONTINUED.

	We learn to understand human nature by
being brought into close connection with
each other, and more especially when under
trying and difficult circumstances; and we
seldom think more unkindly of persons
from gaining an insight into their real
hearts and character.  Instead of my opin-
ion of women being unfavorable or my feel-
ings unkindly in consequence of being inti-
mately associated in family relationship
with them, I am more favorably disposed
to women as a class, learning more of the
true nature of woman-kind than I ever
could without this peculiar experience; and
I am willing and ready to defend enthusi-
astically those of my sisters who have been
genuine enough and who possessed sufficient
sublimity of character, to practically live
the principles of divine faith, which have
been revealed in these the last days, in the
establishing of the kingdom of God upon
the earth.  It has required sterling quali-
ties indeed to battle with the opposition on
every hand, and not be overcome.
	That this is God's work and not man's
should be apparent to all those who are ac-
quainted with the history of the saints,
their persecutions, their trials, their diffi-
culties, and the marvelous means of their
deliverance, - when dangerous and various
untoward circumstances environed them.
	My husband built a comfortable dwelling
house on Parley Street in Nauvoo, but still
we endured many privations, which in our
own home in Ohio would probably never
have fallen to our lot; but we always felt
we must be thus tried to prepare us for fu-
ture exaltation, and that we might be able
to participate with those whom God had ap-
proved and owned, who "came up out of
great tribulation."
	Every one acquainted with the history
of our people know the terrible results of
the apostasy of "Bennett, Foster and the
Laws." Joseph Smith had no peace, his life
was sought continually by his enemies, and
this was the occasion of constant anxiety
and trouble to the saints.
			To be continued.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
APPRECIATION.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We have many faculties given to us that
often lie dormant in the soul, latent sparks
of "the divinity that stirs within us" un-
known even to the favored possessor, but
from inattention, or a want of self-study
and self-culture, they are unaware of
"Know thyself" was the wise injunction of
the accomplished and intelligent Greek;
and truly were this an aim and more an at-
tainment we should be more passive, and
probably more happy, for it would confer
strength, it would give us a delightful and
honorable employment; we should discover
what an empire is contained within the
circumference of one human being! With
wonder we should study and contemplate
the working of the heart and brain, see
how busy has the great Creator been with
these master-pieces of His creation, and
appreciation would at once be awakened in
the mind. Without this invaluable faculty
Nature may unfold her glories, friends may
be around us, a mine of wealth that gold
has nothing to do with may be our our por-
tion, but the good and the beautiful are not
discovered, and discontent fills the mind,
simply because appreciation is wanting.
	In reading the works of great authors we
need this faculty, or we cannot soar with
the poet, or delve with the philosopher;
consequently the sublime beauties they
present are to us as a veiled mirror! The
same applies to theatrical entertainments,
lectures, or any intellectual feast that may
be provided. We need it also when we
converse with intelligence, in which so
much mental luxury is often derived, as
also much edification, but lacking apprecia-
tion, their sentiments fall on our ears like
the "seed that fell on stony ground!"
	We also need this faculty in our family
associations. How frequently it happens
that we fail to study, understand, or appre-
ciate those with whom our life is cast!
What a mine of wealth we sometimes trifle
with, or entirely cast away, or by our cold-
ness and indifference crush and destroy,
merely because we have never taken the
pains to understand or appreciate them;
thus we have no power to call out the good
that is around and about us, that might add
to our information and happiness.
	Now let me say a little on self apprecia-
tion. It is said by many that we cannot
know ourselves. I presume to differ on
this point—an honest, candid mind can
know itself. The wise Greek spoke advis-
edly when he said "Know thyself;" and I
will say appreciate thyself—not with a vain,
conceited, cursory knowledge, but after
deep reflection, and much prayer; after
watching the spring and motive of action,
the conception of thought, the birth of
impulse, the origin of temper; after
sounding the depth of feeling, weigh-
ing the strength of principle, measuring
the judgment, anatomizing the reason, and
arraying all the minor faculties before the
Tribunal of the "Mind's Eye," and by a
constant watchfulness, by something like
this we may certainly gain a considerable
knowledge of self, and be able to pass a
tolerably correct verdict. By such a course
we may correct what we find amiss, lay
hold on all that is good, and rejoice therein
with thankfulness, and be happy. This
study will give us faith in ourselves, and if
slandered, or by any means thrown into
opposing elements, we shall rise superior to
the hour by living in our own self-esteem.
Confidence in ourselves is as necessary to

[Column 2]

success as confidence in others, and indeed
more so. The temple of our own heart,
and the sanctuary of our own brain, form
a mighty citadel to take refuge in from
"the whips and scourges that flesh is heir
to"—finding there resources, that will com-
pensate for all we suffer; and in the integ-
rity and rectitude of our souls we shall re-
ceive an intuition and a knowledge of our
position, however insignificant or exalted,
that will enable us to stand beneath every
trial with calmness and dignity, looking to
our God, and with all confidence saying,
"Lord, Thou knowest."
	"Knowledge is power," especially when
applied to ourselves; for nothing can rob us
of what we know. While our principles
are righteous and we love them, because
they emanate from the Author of light and
truth, and we appreciate them as such,
we will fear no evil. Let our daily prayer
be that we may realize our gifts and bless-
ings and appreciate the same.
	S. L. City, Dec. 18, 1878.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

 WE have received minutes of Ladies Mass
Meetings at Heber City, Wallsburg Fairview
of which we shall publish a synopsis.  We
have been obliged to lay over R. S. Reports
to give place to the notices of the Ladies
Meetings.
 We take this opportunity to tender our
warm and sincere thanks to Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage for her excellent article "The
Utah Question" published in December
number of "The National Citizen and Bal-
lot Box."  Mrs. Gage is an earnest deep-
thinking liberal-minded woman who is not
afraid to stand up heroically and speak out
fearlessly for the right.  She is working in
a noble cause, for the elevation of women.
"The National Citizen and Ballot Box" is
the Exponent for the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and we would be
glad to see it prosper sufficiently to enable
its proprietors to publish it weekly, as the
cause in which it is issued is one which de-
serves a large and liberal patronage.  Suc-
cess to the Ballot Box and its able editorial
staff.
	THE ladies of Salt Lake County have pub-
lished ten thousand pamphlets of the Mass
Meeting of Mormon Women held in the
Theatre in this city, Nov. 10, 1878.  These
pamphlets are now nearly all distributed in
the United States and Europe, and some of
the islands of the sea.  They speak for the
veritable women of Utah, their real senti-
ments on the subject of marriage.
	The women of Utah are conscious the eye
of the world is upon them, and they are
also conscious that the eye of the Lord is
upon them.  We felt much wounded by
the course pursued by the Gentile ladies of
this city in entering upon this crusade, but
believe now that it will result in great
good, in awakening a deeper interest on
the subject of Mormonism throughout the
world, and the greater the opposition the
more discussion and investigation will be
brought about.


In Great Britain there are 11,000 women
telegraph operators, who earn from $5 to
$11 a week.
	A Quaker, riding in a carriage with a 
fashionable lady who wore a profusion of 
jewelry, heard her complain of the cold.
Shivering in her lace and jewels, she ex-
claimed, "What shall I do to get warm?"
"Really I don't know," replied the Quaker,
solomnly, "unless thee should put on an-
other breastpin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00[-] one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00[-] per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple St[--]et.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1879.


[Column 1]	
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	From how many thousand lips will go forth
that old time salutation, "A Happy New
Year." Ushering in another space in the great
journey of time, and of each individual life,
—and bringing its round of seasons in its train
to bless mankind with "seed time and har-
vest," opening with the day the world celebrate
as first in the record of the year. This is the
time when almost all feel to renew their lives,
to make a better record, to guard themselves
more carefully from evil, and cleave more to
good. The heart goes out in generous hospi-
tality to friend, or foe, and the larger charity
which fills the soul with kindness manifests
itself in cheery smiles, pleasant words and
good deeds. 
	It is a pleasant practice, and one which
should be highly regarded, for it brings much
that is cheering into the wearisome lives here
below. These delightful re-unions inspire the
heart with an elevated tone of feeling towards
the universal brotherhood of man, and inad-
vertently, as it were, draws people nearer to-
gether, giving them a slight foretaste of the
time when all shall love one another.
	At the close of the old year one is likely to
revert much to the past and indulge in regrets
which are of but little avail although they are
usually linked with resolves, which often prove
as idle as the regrets themselves. What is
wanted to make one better satisfied with life
is vigorous exertion in the path of duty and
rectitude; because what is regretted cannot be
repaired after the time has past. Therefore, let
the past be a pathetic record, to speak in tender
reproach of the mistakes and follies which
may have been committed, and the future the
clear page on which may be inscribed a better
record, if there is moral courage and physical
activity to execute that which the heart de-
sires.
	It is useless to carry about the skeleton of a
dead past. The present and the future are the
themes which should more especially engage
the attention. Memory, to be sure, is ofttimes
a pleasant companion, but she inclines one to
(waking) dreams if her company is courted,
and life is too busy to admit of much day-
dreaming.
	The new year has come—ah! how fast the
years one after another are sweeping into the
great fathomless sea of eternity. Well may
one pause on the threshold of the new year
and take as it were a lingering farewell of that
which is past, fruitless as it may be. Farewell,
old year: thou hast faithfully served thy pur-
pose, though thy days have been abused by
the many, and thy precious moments unappre-
ciated. Yes, the old year with its joys and
sorrows, pains and regrets, has passed away,
and its record is sealed. Did we say regrets

[Column 2]
passed away? Not so; they remain—it is the
heritage time leaves to mortals. But no repin-
ings can bring back the real past, though the
vision of the mind show it ever so clearly; it 
is only the dim, faded shadow of what was
once alive to all the actual senses.
	None are permitted to retrace their wander-
ings from right—none can recall that which
may have been thoughtlessly uttered, perhaps
causing a wound in the bosom of a friend, or a
pang of sorrow for one beloved.
	In entering upon the new year one volunta-
rily resolves to improve—this feeling seems to
be almost universal, although in many in-
stances only spasmodic, yet even these are
helps towards a better life, for good thoughts
and good desires give strength to the soul, yet
action is the mainspring, and may, with dili-
gence for its companion, make life a real plea-
sure, under the influence of pure thoughts.
	In the fresh green pastures of the new year
there is to the hopeful a peculiar charm—some-
thing approaching the mystic—yet we know
that it is real; and when it comes it may prove
too real, too hard for human hearts, except
God tempers the soul by his Holy Spirit.
	Again we repeat farewell old year; we had
only just begun to grow familiar with thee and
realize thy worth, ere thou hast passed away—
thy footfalls are still echoing in our ears, and
we can scarcely realize thou art gone beyond
recall. How many sighs and tears and groans
thou hast been witness of, and how many hu-
man lives have been yielded up during thy
reign, many thousands of them only as a sac-
rifice to the fierce passions and cruel ravages of
nations at war. And who shall answer for all
this wicked waste of life and intelligence?
	God grant that in the new year now dawn-
ing, when mighty intellect is the boast of na-
tions, that true wisdom may begin to be appa-
rent in connection with the boasted intelli-
gence. edncation and refinement, that the
"time of peace" may be hastened, when men
shall learn war no more. Then will much of
the sorrow which now cries out from ten thou-
sand cities in one agonizing chorus be un-
known. And so passes away the old year once
again, and on the tablets of memory are inef-
faceably engraved some sorrows that nature
mourns, and even these may be blessings in
disguise, for only God knows what is best, and
to all who trust Him implicitly will He give
that consolation which abideth forever.
	In this new year we trust the EXPONENT
may be the humble though silent instrument of
doing much good, of inspiring courage in the
hearts of our sisters in the noble work of ele-
vating and blessing and uniting together those
who desire to promote the interests of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. And so we
will close by wishing our friends and readers
one and all "A Happy New Year."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE FIRST An[-]ual Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding, was held Friday and Saturday, Dec.
20 and 21. The Young Ladies' M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. having been recently organized
in a Stake capacity handed in their first re-
ports from date of each organization, making
the Conference a conjoint one of Relief Socie-
ties and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations. There were as many persons
present as could be seated comfortably. Elder
Joseph F. Smith and Pres. A. M. Cannon at-
tended Friday morning session to hear the re-
ports from Relief Societies and encourage the
sisters in their labors. They each made most


excellent remarks, of which we shall give a
synopsis in the minutes which will be pub-
lished in the next issue of EXPONENT. Friday
afternoon was devoted mostly to verbal reports
from the presidents of the various branches of
Relief Society in Salt Lake County. There
were present on the stand Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Zina D. Young and many other ladies
who are devoting themselves almost exclusive-
ly to public duties in the interest of the Latter-
day Saints. Mrs. E. Howard, Secretary for the
County organization, read the reports in the
morning, Mrs. E. B. Wells in the afternoon.
We will publish in full the statistical and
financial report when it has been carefully
made out.
	Saturday morning Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
sided over the meeting. Mrs. Augusta J.
Crocheron, Secretary, read the reports from va-
rious parts of the county. Saturday afternoon
presidents of Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations made verbal reports. Miss E. R. 
Snow and Elder Joseph E. Taylor occupied the
remainder of the time. The Conference ad-
journed for three months to the first Quarterly
meeting of the second year.


WHAT IS WANTED?

	"That the name and character of a citizen
of the United States shall mean one and the
same thing, and carry with them unchallenged
security and respect." * * * "Free
speech, free press and free suffrage," * *
"these are inestimable rights to American citi-
zens."
	It seems by the President's Message that the
costly colored man in the South had served his
time and can now be protected in his rights,
and the great Dictator and Upholder of the
universe sanctioned it, or allowed it. It was
talked over and prayed over by the oppressed
slaves (though some were well treated), but
the time came when their prayers and inter-
cessions were heard and answered from on
high. 
	Jacob served fourteen years for his two wives,
his father-in-law (what a mistake! it is gener-
ally the mother-in-law) oppressed him, but
God put it into the heart of Jacob to ask for
the ring-streaked and speckled cattle; thus
Jacob gained justice.
	What a strange freak of nature for like to
produce like. Suppose man lifts from the soul
of woman the thought, "I am not protected as
an American citizen," no diminishing of the
treasury is required, no blood is shed, no hearts
to be rent, no wails of the widows and orphans
—none of these things need follow. What is
wanted? Yea, in our fair country. Master
spirits with true unselfishness, wise patriotic,
zealous souls not struggling for power over
each other, but content to act righteously,
knowing the time will come when principle
will outweigh policy—otherwise the seed of
dissolution will reap an abundant harvest—
the reward of unrighteousness, wickedness and
corruption.
	Ladies of America, have you considered that
this is what is wanted?
	Let our honored representatives at the Capi-
tol consider the condition of the tax-paying
ladies—they must abide the law, but they are
not American citizens.
	Has not WOMAN served the world almost long
enough to know her position? If men want
rights, obtain them by love and justice; let Ja-
cob (woman) go free, then all the wealth of
the soul of woman may be free to bless the
world, protected by the strong arm of the law,
physically, morally and mentally


There will be no war when every knee is bowed
in homage and supplication to God. How
long, O Lord, shall Nature's true laws be dis-
respected, and our nation suffer the consequen-
ces of the lack of justice in their administra-
tion?
							ZINA D. YOUNG.
	S. L. City, Dec. 9, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN--WOMANS WORST ENEMY.

	The greatest enemy woman can have is wo-
man. Whether they are instruments in the
hands of corrupt men or not, they alone know
how to be the worst foes of each other. The
last CRUSADE is only one proof out of many of
this assertion. Those ladies who allowed
themselves to be the cat's paw in this crusade
cannot be deep thinkers; they do not think for
themselves, they are merely the echo of others,
who, with or without reason, hate the Latter-
day Saints. Those ladies, if they had thought
for themselves, would never have consented to
be placed in the position in which they now
stand--the enemies of woman's freedom.
They know if they use their freedom unbiased
by prejudice, that they have never lived in
any place where woman is as free as here in
Utah. Not the freedom, so called, of licen-
liousness, which binds with [-etters] strong as
death, but the freedom that lives above law.
In no community on the face of this broad
land is the criminal calendar so small as among
this people, whether male or female. But this
is a digression. 
	What I wish to reach is the subject of plural
marriage as practised by the Latter-day Saints.
Those ladies claim it to be an abomination,
something awful, something to be loathed,
shunned, abhorred. But why? If it is so
dreadful, tell me why? Bring you reasons,
your strong reasons, and we will consider
them. Plural marriage has been practised for
over thirty years to my certain knowledge
amongst us, and where are the awful wrongs
it has brought forth. This people both male and
female are a God-fearing people. Come to our
meetings int he settlements away from the
city; listen Sabbath after Sabbath to the
teachings of the Elders, and those Elders, 
many of them, living in polygamy. I bear
testimony  that they teach the highest code of
morality and the most implicit trust in God;
that they counsel the people to be industrious,
sober, self-sustaining and honest; to marry
young, that they may live pure and not go
astray; that men must be faithful to their
wife, or wives, and provide for them and for
their families to the best of their ability.
	We provide amply for our poor, visit and
care for the sick and afflicted, store up grain
for a time of need, try to love our neighbors as
ourselves, to do good to them that hate us.
Are these then teachings of a wicked and licen-
tious people? Are these the practices to con-
demn? That plural marriage binds woman
and makes a her slave to man is utterly untrue;
it is the beginning of her freedom; it is the
door of her emancipation from slavery to man.
Now for the proof.
First, the girls of this Territory are not
afraid they will be old maids.
Second, they need not accept the first offer
for fear they will not get another, as they know
they can marry when they choose and whom
they choose.
	Third, mothers need not dress their daughters
and parade them around that they may catch
a husband, which after caught often proves not
worth having.
Plurality of wives also provides for the health
of woman after marriage. Ask any student of
human nature and they will be compelled to
acknowledge that it would be the salvation of
thousands of wives temporally. Thousands
of women every year are offered up a sacrifice
to mens' lust.
	Last, but not least, God has revealed this
principle for the salvation of His people, and
woe to them that fight against it. God has
promised to those who ask in sincerity that
He will give them a knowledge of the truth of
His work, or the principles pertaining thereun-
to. Plurality of wives is one of those princi-
ples. "Ask and ye shall receive; knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
Grantsville, Dec. 9, 1878. MARY.


MASS MEETING.

	PLEASANT GROVE.

	Mrs. Emily C. Bullock called the meeting to
order and moved that Mrs. Elizabeth Brown
preside; the motion was carried, and Miss Pau-
line Brown and Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart were
chosen Secretaries. After singing and prayer
Pres. Mrs. Brown explained the object of the
meeting—to protest against the anti polygamy
petition, and declare our sentiments in regard
to our holy religion. Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters
then read the petition referred to.
	On motion of Mrs. Margaret Walker a com-
mittee of seven was appointed to draft resolu-
tions for the adoption of the meeting, viz. M.
Walker, Lucinda Harvey, Mary A. Street, E.
C. Bullock, Elizabeth Harper, Susannah Wool-
ley and Mary A. Pratt.
	During the absence of the committee the
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Mary A.
Phelps. Mrs. Laura Liston, Mrs. Pres. Brown,
Mrs. F. E. Stewart, Mrs. E. Walker[-] and Mrs.
E. Hawley, who each made a few remarks on
the subject of plural marriage, and entered a
protest against the action of the ladies engaged
in the Crusade against us.
	Mrs. Mary J. T. Winters read her sentiments
in an ably written address which she had pre-
pared for the occasion. It was directly to the
point, in defense of the principle of plurality of
wives.	
	Miss P. E. Brown said: "I am proud of my
birth in Utah and that I have been reared in
polygamy. From my earliest recollection my
father has been a practical polygamist, and
were it necessary I would raise my voice in
protest to the kings and queens of the earth
against having our sacred family ties severed
as one portion of our family is as dear to me as
another. We are much obliged to our neigh-
bor sisters for their seeming sympathy, but
would advise them to keep it till solicited."
	Miss Clara Halliday: "I am proud to state
that I am a polygamist by birth as well as be-
lief. I know my parents are sincere in their
religion and its practice[-] and though we may
not have the advantages of book knowledge
equal to some of the children of the world,
we have the Spirit of God to teach us wisdom."	
	Miss Rosa Brown; "I too am a child born in
polygamy, and I am proud to declare it to the
world. I look upon my father as a man with
whom the Lord is well pleased because of the
integrity of his heart in keeping his com-
mands, and feel to pity those who are striving
to deprive us of our inalienable rights, and
would ask them to move wisely and petition
Congress to admit Utah as a State, which her
people have so long merited."
	Mrs. Hannan Woolley, Karren Heisett and
many other ladies raised their voices in earnest
protest against this anti-polygamy movement
which threatened the rights we hold so dear.


The report of the committee was then pre-
sented and the resolutions adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	Closed with singing and benediction.
								SECRETARIES.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Moroni, Sanpete Co., Dec. 5th, 1778,
Martha Ann Kemp; daughter of Charles and
Sarah Kemp, aged 17 years and 6 months. She
attended our evening meeting Sunday, Dec. 1,
and played on the organ during the service.
Her illness, only lasted three days She was a
teacher in the Sunday School, and also a mem-
ber of the choir. She enlivened as with sweet
notes on the organ. She was indeed a very in-
teresting and intelligent girl, and her sudden
departure cast a gloom over our settlement.
She was always punctural and faithful in filling
her position. She was a member of the Y. L.
M. I. Association, and was much beloved by 
both young and old. Her remains were taken
to the City Hall, where the funereal was held,
and appropriate remarks were made  by several
brethren. Twenty-three vehicles formed the
procession, and twenty young ladies followed
her remains to her last resting place.
	We sympathize with her parents and also
her relatives, who deeply mourn her absence.
May her dust rest in peace, that when the
trumpet shall sound she will come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection.
Farewell, dear sister, we shall meet no more
Till we arrive on Canaan's happy shores
There we shall meet at our Redeemer's seat,
And cast our crowns of victory at His feet.
Moroni, Dec. 18, 1878.			J. BAILEY.
DIED, at Nephi, Oct. 23d, 1878, of Diptheria,
Bessie Lizzette, daughter of Edward and Bessie
Sparks, aged 7 years and 1 month. This was
the eldest child, a lovely little girl, and the
parents are greatly affected by it, feeling it to
be a sore affliction. She was a Sunday School
scholar, and was of a most lovable disposition,
which endeared her to all her associates, and
caused her to be beloved by all who knew her.
It is sad indeed to part with our loved ones,
and we deeply sympathize with the parents
and family of this little girl, but there are
sad experiences of this sort in life, and we
should be specially tender to each other and
thus bear each other's burdens. We know and
have an assurance that these little ones are
saved from a life of sorrow and trouble. "Suf-
er little children to come unto me and forbid 
them not, for of such is the kingdom of hea-
ven."
DIED, at Rockport, Summit Co., Utah, Nov.
25th, 1878, of inflammaion of the bowels,
Charlotte Underhill Marchent, wife of Ed-
mund Marchent, aged 51 years, 6 months and
15 days. Deceased was born May 10th, 1827 at
Wickward, Glostershire, England. She leaves
a husband and daughter with numerous rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She was the Treasurer in our Relief Society
and filled her office honorably. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint beloved by all who
knew her. Her death cast a gloom over our
little settlement, but we feel that our loss is her
infinite gain. Blessed are the who die in
the Lord for they rest from their labors" and
come forth in the morning of the first resur-
rection."
ANN BRYANT, Pres't R.S.
SARAH STAKER, Sec'y.


FOUR hundred women have entered the
University of London this fall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
THE NEW COVENANT.

	Do we not feel to mourn when we see our
young people indifferent to the great work
of our Father's Kingdom? And why do
they ignore the excellency of the work?
Are they ignorant of the new covenant the
Lord has made with His people, prepara-
tory to His second coming? Perhaps you
ask when did He make this covenant? I
answer, when the angel came to Joseph
Smith to restore the Gospel as it was an-
ciently, with all its gifts, to the humble
and faithful Saints. That same covenant
is renewed to all who obey it and have an
eye single to the glory of God, then our
whole bodies are full of light. We see
whom we associate with, and know the re-
sult of the course we are taking. We then
know which is the downward course and
which will tend to happiness as a reward
to the just, for it is said "the just shall live
by faith." If so, can an unjust person ex-
pect the gift of faith? No, verily, no; none
but the upright and just, and those of true
integrity can have this gift. Yet we may
fail when our intentions are right. If the
common enemy retard our progress, then
we should humble ourselves, for it is the
humble and meek that the Lord will bless.
	The Book of Mormon shows that our
weaknesses are given for a wise purpose,
whereby we can come in humility to Father
for help and strength; yea, help in every
time of need.
	We read that we must be tried as "gold
seven times purified. How is that? It is
melted until the dross is all removed—un-
til the operator can see his face in the
heated metal; and when our trials produce
this effect our Savior can see this image in
us, that will be sufficient. Then, we will
be fit co-workers in His kingdom, and heirs
and joint heirs with Him. This is in ac
cordance with His words. The Jews were
expecting His coming to reign as King—
were they prepared for a celestial kingdom
before they received the laws pertaining to
that kingdom? Do you ask what they
were? You will find them contained in
the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of Matthew,
called Christ's sermon on the Mount. This
education is necessary to a reign of peace
on the earth. Did any of the Jews believe
this? Yes a few—Jesus' Apostles and those
who believed on their words. The beauti-
ful illustration of the sheep and the goats
show what order and consistency is to be
observed in the celestial kingdom of our
Father.
	When our minds are lit up by the Spirit
of Christ, what order, what beauty and
consistency we see in the laws of the celes-
tial kingdom. It may well be said that it
is like a well of living water springing up
to everlasting life. It is always new, never
stale, or threadbare to those who have an
eye single to the glory of God, for they
possess that spirit which enlightens the
mind and enlivens the soul. When I look
upon those whose abilities are good, and
judgment sound, but minds dark upon this
subject, I think they are like a candle which
has never been lighted. They are in pos-
session of all the attributes of our Father,
but have not yet been lit up by that Spirit
by which they can become a light to the
world and a blessing to their associates.
Let us be up and doing, because "the days
are evil, and soon the night cometh in
which no man can work."
	M. E. KIMBALL.
S. L. City, Dec. 10, 1878.


A MASS MEETING

	BY THE LADIES OF PAYSON. 

	On Monday Dec. 9th the sisters of Payson
assembled at the meeting house. There
was a good representation. The meeting
was called to order by Mrs. Agnes Douglass:
on motion of Mrs. Mary Moore, Mrs. Jane
B. Simons was chosen to preside. Mrs. M.
A. Hardy was chosen secretary. Mrs. Jane
B. Simons then arose and stated the object
of the meeting, and said she would like the
sisters to express their sentiments, but be-
fore hearing from them she would read the
speech of Mrs. Zina D. Young, delivered at
the mass meeting in Salt Lake City, Nov.
6th, 1878. After the reading, the following
ladies addressed the assembly in a spirited
manner bearing upon the point at issue,
namely, declaring themselves opposed to
any interference with their social life or
religious belief. Mrs. Martha Simons, Mrs.
Emma Curtis, Mrs. Phebe Hancock, Mrs.
Mary Moore, Mrs. Agnes Douglass, Mrs.
Ann Pickering, Mrs. Susan Clayson, Mrs.
Elizabeth Higgs, Mrs. Fanny Coombs, Mrs.
Ellen Huish. After these appropriate and
earnest speeches the preamble and resolu-
tions were read which were adopted by the
ladies in Salt Lake City: a vote was then
taken endorsing said preamble and resolu-
tions; it was carried unanimously not one
dissenting voice. After singing and pray.
er meeting adjourned, sine die.
		M. A. HARDY Sec'y


ROME, GEORGIA, Oct. 27th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were organized into a Relief Society
at our Conference held Aug. 10th, 11th and
12th, 1878, by Elder J. Morgan, with a good-
ly number of memebrs: the following offic-
ers were elected:

	V. Fawcett, President,
	Lina Lawrence,
	Emma Fawcett,        Counselors,
	Joanna O. Manning, Secretary.

	Thinking that you certainly had noticed
the organization of our soceity in the minu-
its of the conference in the Deseret News,
fearing that probably you might being to
think rather strange at the idea of my not
making any reports to you, I have come to
the conclusion that it owuld be proper to
give you some informatio in regard to the
matter. I haven't as yet heard  any word
from our president nor any of our sisters.
I cannot for even one minute imagine what
the cause for her not writing to me is, un-
less it is that so much opposition and perse-
cution exists, I assure you it runs high and 
seems to get worse in some places, especi-
ally where sister Fawcett lives, I guess they
think that it is best to remain quiet while
the opposition is so great and the persecu-
tion so bitter. But I can say that we have
been blest where we live; there is but very
litttle persecution in our part of the country
in comparison to some parts where branch-
es of the church are established, but I will
not boast for we know not how soon it may
change for the worse, people generally de-
test Mormonism, they haven't any sympathy
for any one who advocates Mormon princi-
ples, but for the respect that they have for
themselves and for our feelings they treat
us very kindly. We are surrounded by a
very generous hearted people who seem to
sympathise with us more than persecute,
unless it is once in a while one who seems
to care not what they say or do; but we as a
general thing stay at home and attend to
our own business, looking forward to the
future when we can enjoy better times, that
is all we can do under present circumstan-
ces. Through reading the columns of your
paper I can truly realize the good that is
derived from your Relief Societies and I was
delighted at the idea of our being organized
into a Relief Society, and I am truly sorry
that we cannot accomplish our desire, I was
in hopes that we might be able to do some
good if but little, it would be some satisfac-
tion; but we are in a scattered condition
and so many disadvantages all put together
it seems that we can't do any thing just yet
but hope better things for the future.
	I remain your faithful sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
						JOANNA MANNING. 

			KOOSHAREM, Nov. 19th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The ladies of Grass Valley wish to repre-
sent themselves as a Relief Society, we
were organized August 1st, 1878. by Bishop
Joe. H. Wright and Counselors, the follow-
ing ladies were chosen and set apart:
	Margrethe Anderson, President'
	Eliza Rust, 
	Sabra Hatch        Counselors,

Secretary and Treasurere were also elected.
The ladies seem to take a great interest in
the work of the Society and being awake to
their duty; we are all new beginners and
need all the instruction we can get realiz-
ing that your valuable paper is what we
need to keep up with the times. We re-
spectfully ask you to send to us "WOMANS
EXPONENT" one club that we may glean
instruction from that paper, we also hope
that some of our sisters from headquarters
will be kind enough to come and visit us,
we live a little to one side of the world as it
were, but that does not hinder us from en-
joying the spirit of God; we have seventy
four members enrolled: we hold meetings
semi monthly, and they are well attended,
and we feel that the spirit of God is with
us.
	Wishing continued success to the EXPO-
NENT, We Remain,
		Margrethe Anderson, President,
		Mary Jenson, Secretary.


WOMAN'S MASS MEETING AT NEPHI.

	According to appointment the ladies of
Juab Co. held a mass meeting in the Nephi
Meeting house for the purpose of express-
ing their sentiments with regard to their
religious and political rights as American
Citizens. On motion of Mrs. C. Kendall,
Mrs. A. Goldsbrough was elected president
of the meeting, Mrs. Pitchforth was chosen
Secretary, and Mrs. A. Bigler Assistant
Secretary. On motion of Mrs. J. Picton,
Mrs. H. Grover was called to take the chair.
The choir led by Mrs. E. Grace, sang "arise
O glorious Zion." Prayer by Mrs. H. Grover
Choir again sang. Mrs. H. Grover arose
and addressed the assembly: ladies and sis-
ters, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. We meet here this day for the
purpose of declaring to the world and each
other, our sentiments in regard to our re-
ligious rights, and to enter our solemn pro-
test against that unhallowed Anti-Polyga-
my circular and letter, that has recently
been forwarded to Washington, to Mrs.
President Hayes; for the purpose of influ-
encing hostile legislation against the people
and true woman of Utah.
	The following ladies made some very
spirited and appropriate remarks. Mrs. A.


<k'. ailericantoek;="" k="" ay,="" a-masa.="" ilectingof="" the="" .wpmon.of?lis="" city="" was="" hejd-inthe="" meeting="" house="" dec.="" 1,4,="" 878.="" to="" protest="" against="" 1="" he="" anti-polygamy="" crusade="" of="" our="" gentile="" sisters="" called="" ordertby.mrs.-="" n="" crompton,="" on="" whoso="" motion.="" mrs.="" mary="" hindley="" elected="" chairman;="" mrs.-e.y="" tracy="" andmrsieathers="" ton="" esc’s.="" choir,="" sang,="" 'prayer="" by..mrs.="" q.,="" shelly.="" m.="" explained="" that="" ob-="" ject="" of-the="" ivas="" ta="" oxptess;-our="" views="" and="" senttmenlsandltd="" protest’dgainst="" measures="" ,entp;pd="" into="" by="" -gentile="" ladles="" tmt="" lake.city,-="" roliu3="" odmir.="" homes,="" pur="" husbands,="" franchise;.="" and-the="" inestimable="" right="" worshiping="" god'according="" dictates'="" oar="" ownj="" ....="" consciences,="" this="" own="" ser="" in="" thisboastb'd="" ‘land="" freedbrd,="" thejand="" nativity="" adoption.="" it="" behooves="" us,="" my="" rise="" iip="" wicked="" interference,="" give"="" them="" understand="" we="" know="" what="" are="" doing,="" whomwjs="" trust,="" will="" not="" tame-="" ly="" submit="" have="" our.rights="" trampled="" upon.-="" featherstone="" then="" read="" circular="" clergy="" memorial="" congress="" tha="" opposed="" polygamy="" following="" jadie3="" were="" chosen="" draft="" resolutions:="" l.="" harrington,="" e.b.="" clarke,="" c.="" shelley,="" j.="" hindley,="" a;="" mpwiey,="" mott="" .king.="" after="" the?="" committee="" had="" retired="" m.,="" addressed="" meeting.="" beloved="" sisters:="" you="" all="" knciw"ih'a="" bur="" has;="" been="" canvassed="" two;girls="" seeking="" algdatures="" a="" petition,="" polygamy.="" is="" accordance="" with="" clergy,="" and,="" who="" has.signed="" it?="" few="" poor="" weak="" women="" anil="" some="" children,="" they="" but="" yet="" be="" sorry="" fpr="" course="" halve="" taken,="" somb="" these="" dur="" sisters,="" gathered="" hero="" fortho="" "="" same="" purpose="" as="" ourselves;="" oi="" how;="" i="" pity,="" them,what="" bp="" their="" anguish="" when="" realize="" nature="" crime.="" wo="" husbands="" men="" god,="" faithful="" embracing="" this,="" principle="" has="" obedienteto="" thereve--="" lationaiofheaven,.and="" wo,="" qver="" defpnd="" holy="" andpure="" principle,="" which="" cair="" culated,to.="" raise="" human="" family="" from="" its.="" fallen="" degraded="" condition,="" one="" more="" elevated="" noble;="" oven="" dwell="" polygamiefathers="" abraham,="" isaac="" jacob.="" liyedin="" holy.order="" twenty="" three="" years="" am="" proud="" it,="" children="" born="" other,="" wives,="" i.="" love,="" if="" th6y="" wereiny.owd="" that.="" companion.wives="" good="" virtuous="" join="" you-="" iti="" protesting="" ipterferenco="" those="" ‘of="" tis,="" making="" laws="" deprive="" us="" privilege="" god="" according="" dictates.of="" consciences;="" r="" the,commltteo)returnedwlth.the="" eoso-="" lutions7="" similar="" ihoso’="" ”the="" ladies="" salt-lake="" an'pfijvo;.="" jirfl,.nmfv’t.s="" smoot,="" h.="" cromptoii,="" 'at="" kelly,.="" c.n="" bhelleyr="" l.eh="" jdarrant="" many="" morebf="" sis-="" ters="" expressed="" tyilllngness="" !to="" sustain="" plurality="" wives."="" testimonies="" earnest="" and5="" pointed1="" carried="" firmness="" thbriribi-="" pie="" patriarchal="" marriage="" whichtouldr="" gainsayed;="" also="" several="" young="" themselves="" propdthat="" tkey="" daughveramuraf="" sgjgfi="" eeslutions="" put="" to!="" vote="" unanimously="" adopted.="" adjourned="" sine="" die,="" choicpg.="" ,-benedic="" ..="" tion="" by-mrs.="" john...="" ji-avv!?="" :="" <="" div="">[Column 1]

Goldsbrough, Mrs. M. Pitchforth, Mrs. E.
Kendall, Mrs. M. Bryan, Mrs. C. Brown,
Mrs. A. Bigler, Mrs. E. Oakey.
	Mrs. Goldsbrough said; I reccommend that
we women of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, of Juab stake in Mass
meeting assembled: fully endorse the Pre-
amble and Resolutions passed by the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints in Mass Meet-
ing assembled in the Theatre in Salt Lake
City, Nov. 16th 1878: which resolutions
were read by Mrs. Amy Bigler and were
unanimously adopted. Adjourned sine die.
Benediction by Mrs. E. Kendall.
	Mary Pitchforth Secretary.

AMERICAN FORK.

	A Mass Meeting of the women of this
city was held in the meeting house Dec. 14,
1878. to protest against the Anti-polygamy
crusade of our Gentile sisters.
	Meeting was called to order by Mrs. H.
Crompton, on whose motion Mrs. Mary
Hindley was elected Chairman. Mrs. E.
Tracy and Mrs. E. Featherstone Sec's.
Choir sang, prayer by Mrs. C. Shelly.
	Mrs. M. Hindley explained that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to express our
views and sentiments, and to protest against
the measures entered into by the Gentile
ladies of Salt Lake City, to rob us of our
homes, our husbands, and the franchise;
and the inestimable right of worshiping
God according to the dictates of our own
consciences, and this by our own sex in
this boasted land of freedom, the land of
our nativity and adoption. It behooves us,
my sisters, to rise up against this wicked
interference, and give them to understand
that we know what we are doing, and in
whom we trust, and that we will not tame-
ly submit to have our rights trampled upon. 
Mrs. Featherstone then read the Circular
to the Clergy and the Memorial to Congress
of the ladies opposed to polygamy. The
following ladies were then chosen to draft
resolutions: L. Harrington, E. D. Clarke, C.
Shelley, J. Hindley, A. Mowley, M. Mott
and M. King. After the committee had
retired Mrs. M. Hindley addressed the
meeting. My Beloved sisters: You all
know that our city has been canvassed by
two girls seeking aignatures to a petition
against polygamy. This is in accordance
with the Circular to the Clergy, and who
has signed it? a few poor weak women and
some children, who know not what they
are doing, but who will yet be sorry for the
course they have taken, and some of these
have been our sisters, gathered here for the
same purpose as ourselves; O! how I pity,
them, what will be their anguish when they
realize the nature of their crime. We know
that our husbands are men of God, faithful
to their trust, and their embracing this
principle has been in obedience to the reve-
lations of heaven, and we will ever defend
that holy and pure principle, which is cal-
culated to raise the human family from its
fallen and degraded condition, to one more
elevated and noble; even to dwell with our
polygamic fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
I have lived in this holy order twenty three
years and I am proud of it, and of our
children born of other wives, and I love
them as if they were my own. I know that
my companion wives are good and virtuous
women, and I join with you in protesting
against the interference of those who are
not of us, and against Congress making
laws to deprive us of the privilege of
worshiping God according to the dictates of
our own consciences.
	The committee returned with the Reso-

[Column 2]

lutions, which were similar to those of the
ladies of Salt Lake and Provo. Mrs. M. T.
Smoot, Mrs. H. Crompton, Mrs. A. Kelly,
Mrs. C. Shelley, Mrs. L. E. Harrington,
Mrs. J. Durrant and many more of the sis-
ters expressed their willingness to sustain
the principle of plurality of wives. The
testimonies were earnest and pointed and
carried with them a firmness in the princi-
ple of Patriarchal marriage which could not
be gainsayed; also several of our young
ladies expressed themselves proud that
they were the daughters of plural wives.
The Reslutions of the Committee were put
to vote and unanimously adopted. Meeting
adjourned sine die. Choir sang. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Mary John.
	Emma Fetherstone, Ass't Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For<i their-iot="" :is:st,<="" audlldeferential="" wsjps&ic="" 11="" from="" all.,.="" ,.="" -j.boinan="" god-punlshed="" with="" a="" awift.yengeancothq,="" ;="" boys="" who="" derided="" ishaftn#="" i'.tjjoughpv,="" may="" not;be="" kogrlevous="" blh,’yet'="" wo="" must="" acknowledge="" there="" is="" in="" this="" day="" lack="" of="" deferenco.ta="" tfie="" agedi'="" “<="" div=""> the EXPONENT.
		SCATTER SUNSHINE.

	Yes, scatter sunshine everywhere, and
the reflection of its rays will beautify and
bless thine own life. How blessed it is to
be able to give joy, to be instrumental in
diffusing happiness, to touch with kind-
ness the heart of a fellow-creature, to kin-
dle pleasure in the eye even of a little
child, a helpless babe-all these are noble,
but to show delicate attentions to the aged,
to impart comfort in such a way that it
gladdens the weary pilgrim who is journey-
ing near to "the gates that stand ajar," is
something sublimely beautiful. Scatter
the sunshine of love in the path of those
who are not able to participate in those
pursuits and recreations which warm the
blood and invigorate the mind.
	We sometimes think that many of the
weary fathers and mothers, who have borne
the perplexities and ills of life, have too
little respect even, and their lives, as it
were, almost barren of affection; in some
lonely corner, secluded from the bustle and
cares of the world in which they no longer
take an active part, some sit the weary day
out, patiently waiting God's time to release
them from the ills of life and the neglect
of those who should at least make them
cheerful and contented, after they have
worn themselves out in usefulness and min-
istering to the wants of others.
	There are many little kindnesses and
tender endearments which younger people
can show to the aged that would scatter.
sunshine around their way and brighten
their lonely path. When the sun shines
upon inanimate nature how it glorifies it,
how different its aspect in the sunlight-in
like manner does the sunshine of tender-
ness and love change the feelings of the
heart.
	It is natural to love all that is beautiful,
there is no great nobility of character in
that, although we admire to see a taste for
the beautiful in nature, in art, in science,
in literature, in fact in all things, but when
one cultivates a love for that which has lost
its beauty, for a nobler and higher aim, un-
selfishly, we cannot but feel that person
possesses genuine goodness. If I had the 
power to impress upon the minds of the
young the importance of love and tender
solicitude for the aged, I should feel I had
accomplished something creditable. Moth-
ers, seek to engraft into the hearts of your
little children the qualities that will make
them tender and solicitous for the happiness
and pleasure of those who are not young
and buoyant enough to relish with the same
zest the enjoyments of this life. Many of
this class are really sufferers, full of aches
and pains, help them to forget them some-
times by rendering them truly happy.
	Sunshine is a potent power, and the sun-
shine of affection is equally so. Let us
train up our children not only to be respect-
ful but tender to the aged, and set them
this noble example, that they may grow up
with this beautiful sentiment engraven up-
on their hearts. It is not always the poor
who lack sunshine most, it is often those
who have many creature comforts-these 
do not fill the void in the heart, and it is
well they do not; often indeed we find an
aching heart under the richest trappings.
Elderly people are very apt to shrink from
notice, lest they should mar the enjoyment
or infringe upon the privileges of the
younger people, but they are entitled to
the kindest consideration and thoughful
devotion on the part of those with whom
their lot is cast, and deferential respect 
from all.
	God punished with s swift vengeance the
boys who derided Elisha, and though we
may not be guilty of so grievous a sin, yet
we must acknowledge there is in this day a
lack of deference to the aged.
				AUNT EM.


PRESERVED FLOWERS. 

	I took from its safe-keeping place the
other day, a small box containing, among
other little mementoes of my lost children,
a couple of little sprays of flowers, now
withered and yellow and dry, but which
were fresh when I took them—one from
out the little baby hands which clasped it,
the other from near the soft round cheek
against which it nestled, and I thought how
many such sprays there were kept by sorrow[-]
ing mother-hearts, made dear beyond all
price, because they were the last earthly
things touched by the tiny hands of little
ones gone before.
	Although carefully and sacredly kept,
these precious relics of a joy known and
lost must soon crumble into dust, and
little by little be lost; and I thought of a
plan of which I had heard for keeping
these mementoes, and, perhaps, it may be
as new to some of your readers as it was to
me.
	Not only can these flowers from off the
still bosom of some loved lost one be kept
fresh and bright, but the symbols of happier
occasions as well.
	The flowers should be fresh, and of
white or delicate colors. the green leaves
should be separated from their blossoms.
Place in a perfectly clean vessel a quantity
of the best quality of paraffine, and put
this vessel in another containing hot water.
when the paraffine is wholly melted, dip
each flower separately into the wax taking
care that each part is covered with the
mixture. A coating is thus formed, which
excludes the air, and still allows the flower
to retain its freshness. Leaves should be
treated similarly, but the wax should be
colored green, as near in shade as possible.
Chrome green, lightened with chrome
yellow, is, I think, nearer than anything
else to the desired tint. The flowers and
leaves can then be arranged in clusters or
crosses or wreaths, and placed secure from
dust and flies, either under a glass globe, or
in a deep frame made for the purpose.
	Flowers are said to be preserved by m[-]re-
ly smoking them with sulphur, after the
mode of bleaching hats, that is, to suspend
the flowers in the fumes arising from burn-
ing sulphur, which should be con[-]n[-]d by
means of an air tight box.
	To photograph leaves procure a little
bichromate of potash, with which make a 
strong solution. Soak a piece of letter-paper


in a little of the liquid, and place in the
dark to dry; it should then be yellow in
color. On it place the leaf or fern to be
photographed, and under it a piece of soft
black cloth, and several folds of newspaper[-]
place all between two panes of glass, and
secure well, and place in bright sun rays.
In a few hours a perfect impression will
have been received. The paper must then
be held under the water-tap until the yel-
low has become perfectly white; when this
is carefully dried, the process is complete.
	A pretty and novel receptacle for ferns,
dried grasses, or autumn leaves, can be made
out of a cow's horn by boring a hole through
the ends, in which put a couple of brass
rings, suspend by a brass chain on a ribbon,
it makes a very pretty holder, either for
articles named, or for a little vine growing
in earth or water. The horn should be
boiled to cleanse it properly.
		American Home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the meeting of the Relief Society of Cen-
treville, on the 11th of December, each speaker
bore testimony to the truth of the principle of
Celestial Marriage. The Preamble and Reso-
lutions of the ladies of Salt Lake City at the
mass meeting in the Theatre on the 16th of
Nov., were read, and a vote was taken to en-
dorse them in full, which was carried unani-
mously; the addresses of the ladies on that oc-
casion expressed our sentiments.
	The members of the Relief Society here feel
well in helping to build up Zion.
	Yours respectfully,
		MARGARET RANDALL, Pres't R. S.
Centreville.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condi-
tion; we have assisted in the emigration to the
amount of $57.19, have made a number of
quilts, and are also saving grain. Our Bishop
and Counselors visit our meetings and give us
good counsel. We are striving to live our re-
ligion and do what is required of us both in
word and deed.
	We are proud of our paper (the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT), its pages are fraught with wisdom,
and its influence is being felt abroad. Our de-
sires are to be co-workers with our sisters in as-
sisting in all good works.
	MARY ANN P. SCHOW. Pres't.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, Sec'y.
Escelenta.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Mass Meeting of the ladies of Sugar House
Ward, was held in the Relief Society Hall,
Dec. 4th, 1878, President Mrs. S. B. Gibson
presiding. Many sisters expressed their feel-
ings, and all felt to uphold and sustain the
principle of plural marriage. The preamble
and resolutions passed by the ladies at the
Theatre on Saturday, Nov. 16, were read and
unanimously adopted.
	SARAH WHEELER, Sec'y.


MRS. MUSSER
Will be pleased to see her friends at her
MILLINERY and NOTION STORE
South of the Old Constitution Buildings,
East Temple Street.
Professor Bell's Telephone, and Professor Edison's
Electric Pen, for multiplying letters and all kinds of
blanks are on exhibition. No charge for explaining
their uses.

NOTICE

				NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell
		    sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
				 REMEMBER ALL.

	  New Goods for the Fall and Winter 1878.
AN Immmense Stock of those cheap and durable white
and red, twilled and plain FLANNELS,
just received from the Provo Mills.  Also Dress Flannels,
Waterproofs, Linseys, Blankets, Jean[-], Yarns, Cloths,
Double, Single and Shoulder Shawls, Trunks, Brooms,
Tinware, Shoes, Dixie Cotton Batting, and other goods,
at the Commission House.
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence-Ephriam, Sanpete County.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street. a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly,
GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Swithches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G.  M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds 
on hand.
	Send your orders to 	C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE-Above Dr. H. J. Richard & Co's Drug
Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I. Co-operative Store.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
Second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velevet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH 7 BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kids Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
					    AT
                                      TEASDEL'S 

	         Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL.
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't. 		Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET
 
		DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNRRY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE.
SUPERINTENDENT.	

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JAN. 15, 1879. 	No. 16.


[For the EXPONENT.
A VOICE WITH INSTRUCTION.

A voice has gone forth from the Zion of God,
Not loud, but 'tis deep, ye can hear it abroad;
'Tis the voice of her daughters, who rise in the name
Of Jehovah, and fling back the stigma of shame
They are striving to throw on the noblest and best
That have planted their homes in the land of the West.

Better take from their own eyes the beam that is there;
Hush first in Columbia the cry of despair
That comes from the desolate children of shame,
That are found in their streets with no home and no
	name;
And give to their daughters the crown they have lost—
Their virtue give back, or fearful's the cost.

For a cry has gone up to the throne of our God
From the mothers' wrecked hearts crushed down to the
	sod;
And their tears o'er their desolate hearthstones are shed
For their loved ones so fallen, their bright hopes so dead;
And the wail of the lost ones ascendeth on high,
And vengeance on man, the destroyer, is nigh;

They offer "protection"—our fathers are here,
Our husbands and brothers and all we revere;
We have proved them before, we will trust them again,
When they fail to aid us, our God will sustain.
Ye war with Jehovah, O perishing man,
'Tis He who commanded us, He's in the van.

You may marshall your hosts, but they'll vanish away
Like mist from the mount neath the sun's golden ray,
For the kingdom will stand, as Daniel foretold,
And the Banner of Truth is forever unrolled;
Then gather around it, ye valiant and brave,
In God is our trust, He is mighty to save.

	HOPE.


[Column 1]		
		[For the EXPONENT.
	JOSEPHINE, WIFE OF NAPOLEON I,
	AND EMPRESS OF FRANCE.

		          BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is something in the biographies of
celebrated men and women that is ever
most interesting and instructive. In read-
ing them they hold up, as it were, a mir-
ror by which we can compare ourselves in
some measure, though with a difference.
We see how they have enjoyed, how they
have suffered, how bravely they have strug-
gled through the battle of life, and how
admirable and worthy of imitation they
have been through all.
	The Empress Josephine is one of those
characters! Her life is full of singular and
extraordinary events, even to a perfect ro-
mance. Her career was upward, till she
stood the most exalted woman in Europe—
yes, the world! Her beauty, her grace and
elegance, her refinement, her affability to
all, whether high or low, won friends for
her in every phase of her chequered life;
even in prison, awaiting the announcement
of her death warrant under the command
of Robespierre, the presiding demon of the
great French revolution, this delightful
affability never forsook her, and she was
the comforter and the soother of all the la-
dies who were her companions in the prison.
In all these awful scenes she was ever a
noble, sweet, womanly woman. But I an-
ticipate.
	She was born at St Pierre, the capital of
Martinico, on the 23d of June, 1757. Her
mother dying early, she was reared by an
aunt, who loved her as her own child. She
received a liberal education and some ac-

[Column 2]
complishments. The harp was her favorite
instrumeut; she was a beautiful reader, her
voice being sweet and harmonious; like
the harp of David on the troubled mind of
Israel's King, this charm is known to have
wrought powerfully upon Napoleon; his
own admission was, "The applause of the
French people sounded to my ear sweet as
the voice of Josephine."
	She was walking one day when very
young with a party of young ladies, when
they observed a woman engaged in telling
the fortunes of a party of young girls who 
had gathered round her.  When Josephine
and her party drew near, the sybil, as soon
as she saw her, uttered a loud exclamation,
and almost by force seized her hand; she
appeared greatly agitated. Josephine was
amused, and said: "Do you discover any-
thing extraordinary in my destiny?" She
answered, "Yes; you will be married early;
that union will bring you sorrow, and you
will become a widow; and then—you will
become Queen of France!" She thought
of it only to laugh at; but as time rolled
on, the words became so impressed upon
her by the events of her young life, that
she came to regard their fulfillment as a
matter of course. On the completion of
her sixteenth year she became the wife of
Vicomte Alexander de Beauharnais. This
was the first step in her destined greatness.
She loved this man with all the devotion
of her nature, and he was equally devoted
to her.  She had two children, a son and
daughter, and these children seem to have
been almost idolized by their parents. Her
son was called Eugene, and afterwards be-
came the Viceroy of Italy; her daughter,
Hortense, became subsequently Queen of
Holland.
	Now were rehearsed the scenes of that
great and awful revolution which engulfed
France! Beauharnais belonged to the aris-
tocracy, and that was sufficient to bring him
under a ban. He was arrested by order of
the committee and thrown into prison, ac-
cusing him of a conspiracy. During this
sad period Josephine and her children ex-
perienced great privation, but her kind
aunt took them to her home and provided
for them. At this time there were daily
executions of innocent persons—a blood-
thirsty spirit had possession of the rulers
of the revolution. Josephine was herself
seized and thrown into prison—the Con-
vent of the Carmelites. During these days
of agony nearly eight thousand individuals
were deliberately slaughtered by a Jaco-
bine mob in the various prisons of Paris,
and in a few weeks the husband of Joseph-
ine, unheard, untried, and nothing proved
against him, save the suspicion of bad men,
was ordered for execution, and on the 24th
of July, 1794, it was carried into effect! A
few hours only snatched Josephine from
death; the warrant had been issued, and
she must have died on the morrow had not
the Dictator, the wicked, cruel Robespierre,
fallen on the night of the 26th.
	Josephine received the last letter of her
husband, with a lock of his hair that he
had purchased from the executioner for her,
some weeks after his death, and after read-
ing it and copying it for her aunt, she add-
ed: "Yes, I will live to cherish his memory,

[Column 3]
to educate our children, to love you much,
my dear aunt, and my friends a little!"
The same day she received the knowledge
of her husband's fate she was told to hold
herself in readiness for death, as she was
to be removed to the Conciergery on the
10th, and thence to the guillotine. Several
ladies were her companions in the awful
prison of the Conciergery, and hearing the
order to Josephine to prepare for death they
were lamenting and weeping dreadfully.
At length Josephine exclaimed that there
was not even common sense in their grief;
that she should not die, but should yet be-
come Queen of France! One of the ladies
then said, with something of resentment,
"Why, then, do you not appoint your
household?" "Ah! that is true," exclaimed
Josephine, "I had forgotten. Well, my
dear, you shall be maid of honor—I prom-
ise you the situation." Upon this all the
ladies wept more, for they thought her
trials had disturbed her reason. Josephine
told this in after years to her ladies, and
added that she did not affect a courage which
she did not feel, for she felt persuaded that
her oracle was about to be realized. After
her release from prison she and her chil-
dren suffered much poverty and privation,
and were relieved by kind friends, chiefly
ladies. She says: "To Madame Dumolin
I was indebted for daily bread."
	Time rolled on. Napoleon had in a mea-
sure redeemed France from the fearful state
consequent upon the revolution. Josephine
had met him once or twice in assemblies,
and been introduced to him, but no inti-
macy had been formed between them. At
this time Bonaparte was made General-in-
chief of the army of the Interior, and Com-
mandment of Paris. In this latter capacity
it was that the new General first obtained a
particular interview with Josephine. As
Military Governor of the Capi[-]al he had
been charged with disarming the citizens.
In this way the sword of the Vicomte de
Beauharnais had come into the possession
of General Bonaparte.
		To be continued.


THE DECISION of the Supreme Court,
confirming that of the Supreme Court of
this Territory declaring the anti-polygamic
law of 1862 constitutional, occasioned con-
siderable surprise in this community. Not
that the Latter-day Saints expected any
particular leniency from the government of
which they form a part their past history,
written in their own blood, partly, showing
them too well what they might expect as a
final issue of the matter but it was sup-
posed that the palpable inaccuracies which
marked the Reynold's trial here would
come to the notice of the Supreme Court
of the nation, and that on these discrepan-
cies the case would be remanded for new
trial. But the constitutionality of the law
of 1862 is now established. "What are you
going to do about it?" is the question now
put to the "Mormons." What we have
ever done trust in Almighty God, who
rules the destinies of nations and protects
all who love and serve Him from those who
seek their overthrow. We do not fear the
issue, for we now appeal from earth to hea-
ven, from man to man's Creator.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	PANGUITCH, Dec. 20th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Wednesday, Nov. 6th, some of the
members of our Relief Society met at
their Hall to enjoy a picnic party, the ob-
ject being a surprise to our President, Mrs.
Myria Henrie, as they had prepared a birth-
day present for her, consisting of a nicely
wrought inscription on card board, which
read as follows: "Nov. 1st, 1878. A birth-
day present from Panguitch Relief Society
to their President, Myria Henrie, born Nov.
1st, 1803," and a suitable verse.
	After its presentation, Sister Henrie arose
and expressed her gratitude to the sisters
for this unexpected token of their respect.
Said her only object in wishing to live was
to do good. Told us she had 77 grandchil-
dren and 16 great-grandchildren.
	Encouraging and appropriate remarks
were then made by Bishop G. W. Sevy and
Elder J. W. Crosby, Jr.
	The party was a success; all seemed
pleased with the entertainments of the oc-
casion.
	On the 17th inst. the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association was re-organized
with the following named officers:
	Alice Dickensen, President,
	M. E. Steele,
	Sarah Marshall, 	Counselors.
	Mamie Heywood, Secretary.
		MARY B. HEYWOOD, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, Nov. 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Third Annual meeting Aug.
6, 1878. There were present from Brigham
City President Harriet A. Snow, Susan
Booth, Mary Snow and Sisters Alice and
Abagail Rosenbaum, who all gave us good
instructions. Bishop Dewey and his Coun-
selors were present and gave words of en-
couragement to the sisters. We had a good
meeting and enjoyed the Spirit of God. A
party was given in the evening for the
benefit of the Society, which was well at-
tended, and a spirit of sociability prevailed.
	We hold our meetings every Thursday,
working and speaking meetings alternately.
We have donated to the Logan Temple $20
in quilts and socks; we have 65 bushels of
wheat bought with the proceeds of our
Sunday eggs, and 22 bushels donated by the
Society; sundry articles now on hand worth
$10. Number of meetings held in one
year, 29. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is a
welcome visitor in our meetings.
	May the blessings of God attend the Re-
lief Societies, is the prayer of your sisters,
	MARY DEWEY, Pres't.
	ELIZA HOWARD, Sec'y.

	JOHNSON, KANE Co., UTAH,
		Dec. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized Janu-
ary 25th, 1878.
	Jane C. Johnson, President,
	Mary Ann Johnson
	Louisa Shunway, 	Counselors.
	Contradenia A. Johnson, Secretary,
	Ettie A. Johnson, Assistant Secretary.
	We have 28 members enrolled, 18 aver-
age attendants; all seem to be alive to their
duty, and feel an interest in the good cause
in which they have enlisted. We meet
for working meeting every two weeks, and

[Column 2]

have meeting for spiritual improvement
once a month. We have been piecing
quilts, making gloves, knitting socks, also
quilting, and sewing carpet rags. We all
have the spirit of storing wheat and beans;
we have but little on hand at present, but
hope soon to have more. We have in trea-
sury, Sundries, $15; cash, $4.45; wool 10 lbs;
wheat 5 1/2 bu. All feel the importance of a
Relief Society, and with the help of our
Heavenly Father we hope to keep His Spir-
it and prosper in our labors.
	I had the privilege of attending a wo-
man's Conference for the first time; we had
a very pleasant time and all felt well, and
hope to be able to attend many more such.
	In reading of the Woman's Mass Meet-
ing held in the Theatre it made my heart
rejoice to read of the good and wise doings
of our tried sisters, and believe it will have
a great influence with Congress. We know
that God is at the helm and will reign su-
preme.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the sisters
in their good works, I remain as ever
your sister in the Gospel,
	JANE C. JOHNSON.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After a silence of some considerable
time, I thought I would like to mingle my
voice once more with the rest of my sisters
and bear my testimony to the laying on of
hands. A can say for onethat I have been
sick and "nigh unto death," and have had
the Elders of this Church lay their hands
on my head, and the Lord has made mani-
fest His power.  I can truly say that I know
that this is the work of God, set up in these
last days no more to be thrown down; and
when I read of the great calamities of these
last days it causes me to rejoice to think I
have had the privilege of embracing the
new and everlasting Gospel which has been
established, and to think I have come to
Zion where we can serve the Lord.  I feel
truly thankful to my parents for this, for it
is through their teachings and example
that I am here.  My parents joined the
Church when I was but six months old, and
have endured much for the sake of the
Gospel for the thirty-six years that they
have been in this Church.  I have never
heard them murmur against any principle,
but ever willing to press on for the reward
that awaits the faithful.
So, dear sisters, let us put aside all things
that may appear as trials, and let us try and
be as one great family, for our heavenly
Father has said "Unless ye are one ye are
none of mine."  Then let us lay aside all
selfishness and be as one.  If we only knew
what blessings were in store for all the
faithful when their work on earth is done,
we would hardly have patience to wait for
the time when we shall pass from this vain
world.
May God help us to do right and keep
His commandments, that we may at last
be crowned with all the faithful, is the sin-
cere prayer of your humble sister in the 
Gospel of Christ,          J. G.


PROVO CITY Jan. 8th
	The Primary Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation of the Fourth Ward was organized
Oct. 12th 1878. With Mrs. Hannah Booth
President, Emma Cluff and Jane Snyder
Counselors. H. Harrowsmith and H. Birch
assistants, and Nancy Hares Secretary.
	There are in the association 125 members.
Average attendance 80; meetings held 12;


the mode of conducting is as follows: Sing-
ing, prayer, singing, roll call, minutes of
former meeting read and accepted, address
by the President with general instructions,
local questions with counsel and advice by
E. Cluff, history of Joseph Smith or Bible
stories by J. Snyder, select reading with
explanation by H. Harrowsmith, general
remarks by H. Birch and N. Hares. The
children are then called to recite the Ten
Commandments, Articles of Faith, Restora-
tion of the Gospel and the names of the
presiding high Priesthood. Then those
selected at the former meeting come for-
ward and recite their pieces. Singing
prayer and adjournmnet. The children are
delighted with their meeting. Next week
it is proposed to give them a little dance
the picnic to be furnished by the president
her counselors and assistants.
	J. B. F.


RESPONSIBILITY OF MOTHERS.

	How few mothers realize the responsi-
bility of their position. To them a soul
has been given to train for a higher exist-
ence—a pure soul, and if it becomes stained,
blackened, or withered, whose is the fault?
Little sins like little weeds take root rap-
idly, and will grow and choke out all the
sweet blossoms of truth and innocence, un-
less the mother, with an ever watchful and
prayerful heart, sets them an example
worthy of imitation. How many mothers
see their children grow up from childhood
to man and womanhood, a disgrace to soci-
ety? Need we ask who is to blame, when
the good old book we are taught to believe
in says if parents will train their children
in the way they should go, when they
reach maturity it will not depart from
them. If mothers have a desire to rejoice
at the harvest, let them sow the seeds of
wisdom and righteousness while they can.
								S. A.
	Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City.


ELEMENTS OF A HOME.—I never saw a
garment too fine for man or maid; there
never was a chair too good for a cobbler, or
cooper or king to sit in; never a house too
fine to shelter a human head. These ele-
ments about us, the gorgeous sky, the im-
perial sun, are not too good for the human
race. Elegance fits man. But do we not
value these tools of housekeeping a little
more than they are worth, and sometimes
mortgage a home for the mahogany we
would bring into it? I had rather eat my
dinner off the head of a barrel, or dress
after the fashion of John the Baptist in the
wilderness, or sit on a block all my life,
than consume all myself before I get a
home, and take so much pains with the
outside that the inside is as hollow as an
empty nut. Beauty is a great thing, but
beauty of garments, house and furniture, is a
very tawdry ornament compared with do-
mestic love. All the elegance in the world
will not make a home, and I would give
more for a spoonful of real hearty love than
for whole ship loads of furniture, and all
the gorgeousness that all the upholsterers
of the world could gather together.—Theo-
dore Parker.


THE duration of our passions is no more
dependent upon us than the duration of our
life.
	As we must render an account of every
idle word, so must we likewise of our idle
silence.—Ambrose.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	MY VISION.

DEDICATED TO MRS M. A. C.

I sat slow rocking this evening,
	The fire burned low in the grate,
The rooms deserted and silent,
	The hour was lonely and late.
With swift, noiseless wings, my spirit
	Barred up all the mortal within,
Purged out, for only an hour,
	My human inheritance—Sin.

A noise of soft pattering feet,
	That glide with faint sound o'er the floor:
My spirit-eyes open, and lo!
	Four angels come in at the door!
And softly they crowd around me,
	With faces uplifted and fair,
Their baby-arms clasp above me—
	They lovingly stroke my hair.

Sweet beings of other worlds,"  I ask,
	"Do ye know how lonely are we?
How much the mother who bore ye
	Longs ever her darlings to see?
Oh, can ye not come and whisper
	Your love to that fond mother's heart?
Oh, can ye not visit her often,
	And help her to bear her part?"

Then up spake the fairest and tallest—
	Whose head was laid on my breast--
"You ask us to come to our mother,
	And give her sad heart sweet rest,
But do you not know how endless
	Eternity's ages are?
How few the brief moments of time,
	Which fly like a meteor star?

"We've dwelt in ages unnumbered
	With God, and to Him were true;
And though we were sent to this earth,
	We returned when our mission was through.
We love the dear mother who bore us,
	And watch, with tenderest care,
Her life so noble and pure,
	And record it with pride up there.

"Go! tell her how fondly we wait her,
	To come to our heavenly home;
And whisper, The watch-care that guards her
	Will follow where'er she may roam.
Our duty now calls us, sweet lady,
	For Father's work onward must go."
And so the sweet visions departed,
	With flutter and murmurings low.
	SALO[-]M.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	Sisters, our enemies are on our track, and
while we sleep they are plotting for our
overthrow. Let us wake up and be alive
to our duties, lest Satan enter in and sow
tares while we are sleeping.  He is trying
to do so in every way he can possibly hope
to accomplish it, striking us where he thinks
us least prepared to defend ourselves.  A
little while ago it was the cry.  "Give the
women of Utah the ballot, and they will
handle polygamy," and they laughed
among themselves, for they thought the
women of Utah would vote their ticket in
view of ridding themselves of that princi-
ple, but they were never more mistaken;
and when they find that our hands are
strengthened against them they howl
"Take away the franchise, it gives them
too much power."  But they shall not take
the franchise from us easily while we are
able to defend ourselves.  Let us use it
wisely and well, and we are a power that
will resist their effort to suppress.  They
think now to attack us through our own
sex, and the women, poor, silly things, al-
low themselves to be made use of for politi-
cal purposes.  They call us low and degrad-
ed, but we will meet them on their own
ground and return their scorn with inter-
est.  How many of their lives will bear
investigation? Do women not know that
when they provoke a quarrel with their own


sex that they find those who can talk as
well as themselves; and we are better
armed, perhaps, for we have right and
justice on our side. Our motto is, Deseret,
the working bee. Do they not know better
than to attack a hive of bees? They have
not handled as many hives as I have, or
they would be cautious.
	We see the purpose of the raid in their
memorial, it says: "We, the undersigned
women of Utah, pray your honorable body
to enact such legislation as will make effec-
tive the anti-polygamy law of 1862." This
is the secret of the whole movement—to
excite the country against us and induce
Congress to pass the bills of all sorts, planned
by political frauds for the oppression and
annoyance of this people. They care noth-
ing about virtue, or purity, or they would
note the glowing vices that have been gain-
ing among us since we have been open to
the "refining influences" of modern Chris-
tianity. Polygamy, even allowing it to be
wrong (which we do not) presents a far
purer state of society than the practices of
monogamy can show. They wish to de-
stroy our principles of morality and intro-
duce their own, "but we will have none of
it;" we will rise up in the strength of Is-
rael's God and vindicate our rights and de-
fend them.	MARY.
	Provo.


[Column 1]
	GIVE TO SLANDER NO QUARTER.

	With all our boasted educational privi-
leges, with all our societies for the inculca-
tion of morality, with our churches and
Sabbath schools teaching the principle of
the "golden rule," it would yet seem that
the masses of the people have scarcely a
rudimentary conception of the immorality
of slander, or having such conception, that
they smother it beneath the cloak of vile
suspicion.  Fostered by this suspicion, and
unrestrained by a charity that "thinketh
no evil," slander, "foulest whelp of sin,"
touches, with the blighting frost of its in-
sidious breath, the fair name of woman,
the honor of man, and perverts with vilest
malignity [-]he unsuspecting words and acts
of innocent girlhood.
	When the somber shadow of its wither-
ing curse hovers over the name of woman
by man maligned, it is dark enough, but
when woman casts the cloud, what pen can
portray or pencil shade its gloom?  We can
dimly understand the reason why a woman,
herself fallen, may take delight in circulat-
ing stories or hinting dark things concern-
ing the lives of other women, it being prob-
ably a sort of balm to her own conscious-
ness of impurity to make herself believe
that others, even in high places, are like
unto her.  But how women whose purity
of life is unimpeached can allow themselves
to voice suspicion concerning sister women,
is more difficult to understand.  "Taking
that which enriches not them and leaves
the other poor indeed," they pass along the
highways of life, ignoring those who strug-
gle in its byways, except to give them un-
kind thrusts, all the while as serenely con-
scious of superiority as if their uncalled—for
and most merciless theft were not a greater
crime in the face of high heaven than that
for which many a convict toils for years,
dragging a ball and chain.  The narrow
lives, narrow aims, narrow aspirations of
many women is doubtless the cause of much
gossip, the primary element of scandal,
which "steams up in an infusion of tea and
floats around in the air of common fame,"
and if there were absolutely no other rea-
son for giving the minds of women intelli-

[Column 2]
gent and responsible employment, this one 
would be more than sufficient.  Every wo-
man who has had her mind occupied with
the graver responsibilities of business, or
who is bending all her energies toward the
accomplishment of some cherished aim,
knows how infinitesimal and unworthy of
consideration these mischievous animad ver-
sions upon the conduct of others seems to 
her, and while there will always, doubtless,
be small minds incapable of grasping
greater things than the "poor scandal of
the neighborhood," yet we are sure that
many women are led into this channel of
thought and speech which it induces, from
an activity of mind that is misdirected,
rather than naturally mischievous.  Rise
above this thing, women, sisters, for it is 
one of the clogs that holds our sex in bond-
age, one of the serious charges against wo-
men which can neither be palliated nor de-
nied by those who would fain defend her;
a thing too obvious to be ignored and too
injurious in its effects upon individuals and
society to be passed by in silence.  Put it
resolutely beneath your feet, banish it from
your presence, and by the high hopes en-
tertained for those who call you "mother,"
by the tender recollections of her whom
you once addressed by that holy name, and
for the honor of that womanhood that can-
not be tarnished without casting a stigma
upon them and you, resolve never to voice
a suspicion, however vaguely, that will tar-
nish a woman's name.  Give to slander no
quarter.
"Dare we condemn the ills that others do?
	Dare we condemn?
Their strength is small, their trials are not few,
The tide of wrong is difficult to stem,
And if to us more clearly than to them
Is given the knowledge of the good and true;
More do they need our help and pity too;
	Dare we condemn?
	—"New North West."


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	A SENSE of justice finally begins to pre-
vail in a number of Eastern States. For
years past female teachers have been em-
ployed in the schools of the country, but,
notwithstanding the fact that the work
performed by them has been universally
conceded to be equal to that done by their
male co-laborers, the salaries paid them
have been far below those received by
males. This unjust and ungenerous state
of affairs is now being revolutionized in
many States, and teachers performing a
certain class of school labor receive like
compensation, regardless of sex, the only
qualifications required, being that the work
shall be done as well by the one as by the
other. This system has been adopted in a
number of States, and though the old and
semi-barbarous practice of paying a woman
less because she is a woman still prevails
in other States, it is safe to say that the
spirit of liberality and justice will find its
way throughout the entire country. There
is no question as to the injustice of the
former method, and all liberal minded and
intelligent persons will welcome this inno-
ovation, whatever may be the opinion enter-
tained relative to the woman suffrage move-
ment.


I venerate old age; and I love not the
man who can look without emotion upon
the sunset of life, when the dusk of even-
ing begins to gather over the watery eye,
and the shadows of twilight grow broader
and deeper upon the understanding. —Long-
fellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: each [-]quare, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A literal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]	
	THE MANNERS OF THE AGE.

	There is a great deal of complaint made in
regard to the "decay of fine manners." In
this as most other subjects there is a wide di-
versity of opinion, yet it is generally conceded
that this age is one of rude manners and un-
courteousness, albeit education and advance-
ment are its boast. One would dislike to ad-
mit that following as a consequence the attain-
ment of knowledge, men and women should
disregard those gentle manners that are so ad-
mirable in the possessor. Fine manners are a
charm in and of themselves, that attract and
endear those who possess them to their friends,
and always recommend themselves pleasingly.
It is not possible to define exactly the outline
or extent of these peculiar facinations. It is
something understood and realized when seen,
but of which it is scarcely possible to convey
an idea in words. Fine manners, associated
with brilliant wit and strong intellectual char-
acteristics such as many are endowed with, are
indeed the polish which enhances the value of
even the most sterling qualities, because it
gives them an appropriate setting. And fine
manners are often the passport of an empty
head into the society of intelligent and edu-
cated people, because they give an agreeable
impression to those around them, never giving
trouble,  always doing the proper thing at
the right time, and in the most graceful man-
ner. No rough surfaces that catch at every-
thing and keep one always on the "qui vive,"
nor sharp angles that cut keen as knives, where
all should be smooth and easy.
	It is to be deplored that more attention is not
given to deportment, to breeding, and to that
fine, inexpressible instinct of the manners and
bearing of individuals towards each other at
home, or abroad, in company, in travelling, or
where every people meet. We often hear the re-
mark, "The manners do not make the man (or
woman)," but depend upon it if the manners
do not make them it will have much to do with
their success in life and the place they win in
the affections.
	Ill manners and rudeness are endured some-
times because the affections are strong, the
universal law of love for humanity is powerful,
and there is too much honor left yet to discard
those who are dear by some tie of relationship,
or friendship, because their outward manner
is forbidding or uncouth; but these persons, no
matter who they are, or in what station of life
they are found, exert an influence, however
trifling it may be, and it is not elevating.
	It may not be well to set too high an estimate
upon fine manners and gentle breeding, but it
is a thousand pities that these little excellences
of deportment are not more largely cultivated
and more highly recommended. 
	To be constantly exercising politeness towards

[Column 2]
others is more pleasing than irksome, and it
soon becomes second nature to be affable, if
one is persistent in its practice. It is an old
saying that when things come to the worst
there must be a change, and really the man-
ners of young people in this age are certainly
not of the highest order. Yet books of eti-
quette, standard works on this very mythical
subject, abound now, and "How to Talk," 
"How to Write," "How to Travel," wiht nec-
cessary explanations of the art of pracitising
each of these powers, have been published and
scattered aborad, yet instead of instilling the
innate delicacy of manner into the soul, they
add precept to precept for social practice, and
leave the world barren of the genuine article,
which can never be learned wholly from books,
nor cultivated in sterile [-]oil, but must be en-
grafted into the very root of one's nature, or
the essence of it can never imbue the surround-
ing plants with the living perfume thrown off
at will. 
	Reform in manners is loudly called for; but
where shall it begin and who shall inaugurate
it? Ten to one if one individual steps forward
and shows himself unwilling to comply with
the rough rowdyisms of his associates it would
be said of him, "he's trying to be above us;
he's proud and stuck up;" and in this way,
perhaps, many fall lower, retrograde in the
scale of manners, and drag down others with
them, when with a little more moral courage
they might have stood firm, and thus lifted
themselves and others of their class to a higher
plane of breeding and deportment.
	No man or woman who lifts themselves from
the common level, or mark, without lifting
others too, if it is even those unborn. If the
superiority is never perceptible in those with
whom they come in contact in the daily battle
of life, and even this will be to some extent,
such ones are sure to transmit ot the children
a portion of this subtle element of good breed-
ing, that will develop itself under anything
like propitious circumstances.
	Thus oftentimes are the children of gentle
women detected, that have been abandoned
because they are to the manor (manner) born.
To produce good manners in children parents
must have a large degree in themselves. It is
useless for the father and mother who never
interchange gentle courtesies to expect the
children will, merely because they are so in-
structed, wanting the force of example.
	But notwithstanding forms and ceremonies
are much abhorred in this age, and tradition-
ary usages and customs are greatly ignored,
yet it would be well, and we believe highly
proper, to commence and observe certain fixed
rules, adapting them of course to the various
conditions and exigencies of the individual,
the time and the place, and insist upon a strict
observance of the code or codes of manners.
It may be a great labor, but it is time to begin
to "mend our ways" in this particular. It will
bring into play a large amount of tact and de-
velop some latent politeness, perhaps, now
lying dormant for want of energy to force its
growth. Mothers, teachers, editors, writers
can all materially aid in improving the man-
ners of the age. Fathers are not exempt either,
but as a mother's influence on the mind and the
character of a child is almost always greater
than that of the father, so it would be in the
case of manners and good breeding. Women
tolerate and sanction too many rudenesses on
the part of men that a few years ago would
have been considered unbearable. And not
knowing where to lay the blame, they cry out
against modern society. Before these impro-
prieties and liberties can be remedied some-
body must strongly and emphatically declare

[Column 3]
themselves against them, and set their faces
like iron to do battle for a higher state of soci-
ety and its usages. 
	Very many good things have recently been
published which relate so closely to the sim-
plest conditions of life, and might so easily be
introduced into every department of social in-
tercourse, making a decided improvement in
the tone of society among the people, that we
have been seriously meditating making a series
of extracts from a standard work on this sub-
ject for the benefit of our readers, more e[--]e-
cially the young  people who have banded themselves
together to mutually benefit and aid each
other in every variety of improvement. The
remark is frequently made, when one culti-
vates a taste for politeness, "O she's too nice,'
or "he's too nice," meaning that they pay too
much attention to form of speech, or polish of
manner, but in reality nothing is too nice
which is genuine and bears relations to all
its relative conditions. So much for the man-
ners of the age and suggestions for improve-
ment.	<C. B. [-]oells>


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received reports in full of mass
meetings held in St. George, Third Ward Provo
and Heber City, but not having space for them
they will have to lay over until next issue.
	MRS. EMMELINE B. Wells and Mrs. Zina
Young Williams left this city on the morning
of the 3d inst. for Washington, as delegates to
the Eleventh Annual Convention of the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association, held in
the capitol, on the 9th and 10th of the present
month. Aside from the importance of attend-
ing the Convention itself, their visit was most
auspiciously timed, for not only were they pre-
pared to meet the efforts of the local anti-
polygamic crusade and represent the women
of Utah in a right way, but to answer inter-
esting queries regarding the probable feeling
existing among the Latter-day Saints as a se-
quence to the recent decision made by the Su-
preme Court of the United States, declaring
the validity of the anti-polygamic law of 1862.
	THE MONTHLY Sunday School Union was
held in the Theatre on Sunday evening, the
5th inst., the building being filled to its ut-
most capacity, and many going away unable
to procure seats.
	After singing, and a prayer by Elder C. W.
Penrose, the minutes of the last union were
read and approved, after which Superintend-
ent George Goddard made some remarks. The
Union Glee Club then sang, after which the
city and county wards were called and all of
the former and most of the latter were found
to be represented.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor next addressed
the assembly, and was followed by Pres. A. M.
Cannon. Elder C. W. Penrose also spoke to
the congregation, and then Supt. Goddard of-
fered a few remarks. A number of good reso-
lutions were adopted during the progress of
the meeting, and a good time was spent by all
present.
	THE REGULAR Quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion was held in the Thea-
tre on the 4th and 5th inst. The house was
well warmed for the occasion, and the build-
ing, especially, on Sunday, was filled to over-
flowing. The General authorities of the
Church, including the representatives of both
the Melchisedec and Aaronic Priesthoods, were
seated in order upon the stage, with the Tab-


ernacle choir in the rear. A good spirit pre-
vailed, and much valuable instruction was
given.
	The forenoon of Saturday was occupied by
the necessary transaction of business, after
which the time was occupied in an interesting
manner by Superintendent George Goddard,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Joseph
Young, Sen. At 2 p. m. the Conference re-
sumed, and after more business Elder Brig-
ham Young, Bishops Edwin D. Woolley, Rob-
ert T. Burton, Bishop Edward Hunter and
President David O. Calder addressed the con-
gregation, severally, in the order named.
	Sunday morning Elder Aurelius Miner made
some interesting remarks, after which the 
General authorities of the Church and the
local authorities of the Stake were read and
sustained by a vote of the congregation. Pres.
A. M. Cannon occupied the remaining time,
and the meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	The afternoon was occupied by President
John Taylor, who preached a powerful dis
course on the goodness of God to His children,
and the duties expected of them in return.
His remarks were reported verbatim.
	After a few items of excellent instruction by
Pres. A. M. Cannon the Conference adjourned
sine die;
	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has moved her office
from above Dr. Richards' drug store to the Old
Constitution building next door to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT Office.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City,
Jan. 2d, Electa Mott Barlow, one of the wives
of J. M. Barlow, Dentist, aged 51 years. She
retired at her usual hour, and apparently in
usual health, about 4 oclock a. m. her hus-
band was aroused by a slight movement and
an apparent effort to speak; in two short min-
utes all signs of existing mortal life had fled.
Her two daughters and one of her three sons
reached her bedside before life became quite
extinct, and the son earnestly inflated her
lungs with his own breath; she seemed to
breathe once again and all was over.
	How suddenly, how unexpectedly, and yet
how naturally has this our sister fallen asleep.
She has been many years a diligent member of
the Relief Society Committee, and the kindly
aid she has rendered the sick is a monument to
her memory—the spire which will penetrate
the regions of her paradisic home, and be read
by friends in her circle of society there.
	We condole with the family and friends in
the temporary separation, and rejoice with
them in the Gospel assurances of a happy and
eternal reunion where all tears will be wiped
away, and no moth or rust will corrupt.
	AN AGED SISTER GONE.—News has reached
us of the death of Sister Catherine Wilson,
more commonly known as "Grandmother
Wilson," who departed this life on the 28 h
ult., at the ripe old age of 96 years.
	Sister Wilson was born April 15, 1782, at
Merionethshire, North Wales; received the
Gospel in the fall of 1810, in Flintshire, and
emigrated to Nauvoo in 1842. She crossed the
plains to Utah with Bishop N. K. Whitney's
family, and drove a light wagon all the way.
From that time she has resided in Utah, and
after a long and useful life has quietly gone to
rest, to await the final resurrection, when she
will come forth with the just and the faithful,
to receive the reward of all her well doing.
	The remains were placed in the Ogden City
cemetery, Dec. 30, 1878.


DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., Jan. 1st,
1879, Mrs. Anna White Lamb, wife of Suel
E. Lamb.
	Deceased was born Sept, 1st, 1819, at Zurich,
Switzerland, and came to Utah in 1856, endur-
ing all the hardships incident to that fearful
journey across the plains with handcarts, and
the trials of a lone woman in a strange land,
but through all trusting with unswerving
faith in Him she had covenanted to serve.
With the same faith she passed behind the
vail, with only the regret at parting with her
only child, who, from the effects of brain fever
in infancy, is nearly deaf and dumb, making
it difficult to understand any but the mother.
We do not mourn the departed, knowing her
life was such as to insure her future glory. As
one of the Relief Society she has ever been an
active member, and of all her friends none
know of an unkind word or deed; she was
truly an exception. For that reason we can
not feel to mourn her departure to that haven
of rest, but extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved daughter, praying that He will sustain
her, who has been her mother's comfort and
strength.		M. E. G.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
EXPRESSION.

		"A single look more marks the internal woe
		Than all the windings of the lengethend O!"
	It has been said we are becoming an emo-
tional race. A writer in a prominent maga-
zine, in an article published some time
since, advocated this idea and carried his
theory to such an extent as to declare that
the language would ultimately become ob-
solete, and the interchange of ideas be car-
ried on by means of gesticulations and emo-
tional signs. That such an event is among
the possibilites sound arguments may be
adduced to maintain, and reflection would
lead to the conclusion that, by a system of
education, an emotional language might be
substituted for speech without seriously af-
fecting the necessary interchange of opin-
ions. The assertion of the ancient orator,
that he could express an idea by actions in
as many different ways as a fluent writer
could express it in words, and the actual
verification of the assertion, stands strongly
in support of this theory, but that that
wonderful and delicate organ, the tongue,
given to man by the Creator, and designed
for such remarkable uses, capable of pro-
ducing such unmeasured joy, and causing
such profound sorrow, should fall into gen-
eral disuse by the substitution of emotional
language is not only improbable but verges
on the ridiculous. However, emotional
language, or, as it might be better denomi-
nated, expression, should be cultivated.
	Expression is as old as mankind, and, as
many other things, serves to show the de-
gree of civilization attained not only by
individuals but by nations. It is essentially
the child of the soul and is nourished by
the heart; and admitting this it is at once
established as the sister of sincerity. Rea-
son for a moment. What pleasure is de-
rived from listening to a song in which
there is no expression? or what feelings
are awakened at hearing a beautiful and
expressive ballad sung by one in whose
soul the musical ideas and cadences find no
response? What is it that creates poetry
but the outburst of the fire of the soul into
expressions that rekindle similar fires in
the breasts of others? and how long does
the soul of poetry exist when it is read by
one to whom it gives no sense of joy or sor-
row? Imagine an actor reciting a passage

[Column 2]

from Shakespeare in a strain that is com-
mon to schoolboys-while reciting their les-
sons; or conjecture, if you can, what would
be your feelings to be met by those you
love, after years of absence, with a coolness
of manner that almost freezes you and an
expression of countenance that is as placid
and inanimate as a mirror.
	A few illustrations like these serve to
show the beauty of expression, but it must
always be borne in mind that true expres-
sion is found only in true souls. There is
wisdom in the saying, "Assume a virtue if
thou hast it not," but there is something
angelic in possessing the virtue itself. You
cannot cultivate expression by assuming an
exterior smile when the heart is as cold and
chilling as winter—for the frost is transpa-
rent; you cannot be wholesouled by clasp-
ing the hand firmly, or embracing fondly,
when the heart lacks fondness and firmness
as the diamond lacks warmth. The smile
comes willingly, the sunshine must come in
the heart. Then the smile reflects the sun-
shine, and the warmth brings gladness to
others as the warmth of the sun brings
gladness to earth. No one need then ask
if you have compassion, for the lip quivers;
if you have pity, for the tear trembles in
the eye; if you love, for the whole being
shows it; or if you feel anger, for it is too
plain. In this latter respect, however, it is
safe to say that the virtue is unassumed.
	Hence, it can be seen that the cultivation
of expression is but the cultivation of good-
<ttmpassian,ibe:theiip tjulvers;="" if="" youihavo="" pity;="" for="" the="" tearfremblesdn="" uio="" eye;,="" ify.ou="" -jbvp,="" 'wholemeiog="" shows,="" it="" .or.="" ifhyoiifeel="" anger,:="" ukpt'db="" plain..-="" ip="" this="" latter="" rospect,howeverplbfb="" safe="" to.eayvjhat="" thevlrtiie'la="" uriassumdino="" hence="" jit.can="" he="" seen="" thatihdfcaltlvat'ioh="" of="" iexpression(s="" batitho.carunation="" df="" good-="" ness.="" a="" itr="" eraxpr'essioa="" ikjilways)="" bea="" u="" tiful,="" i="" and="" webut="" attain="" m="" dogr&<jf©ftper-="" feetion="" in="" we.="" will="" have="" rgainedeniuch="" theoother,..but="" remember,="" to-="" cultivate="" expressioniyou="" musthultivafothb="" soqiu="" is="" hoot="" worth="" an-effort?="" ih.-i--it="" o="" :lx="" c.="" v="" itvmichtirlesi.v="" ,="" '="" if.i="" v.="" .hi.="" -st="" or.="" too<="" div="">ness. True expression is always beautiful,
and if we can but attain a degree of per-
fection in this we will have gained much
in the other. But remember, to cultivate
expression you must cultivate the soul. Is
it not worth an effort?
	CHIMES.


QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF ST. GEORGE.

	President Minerva W. Snow, Presiding.
After singing, and prayer by M. W. Snow,
Secretaries were appointed and voted in.
Eliza Smith Calkins as Secretary for the
Stake, and Elizabeth P. Bentley as Corres-
ponding Secretary.  Reports from the va-
rious Societies were then read, with a few
exceptions.  From a misunderstanding the 
reports were not as clean as they should
have been, and in consequence a correct re-
port cannot be given; some going back ten
years.  The presidents of St. George socie-
ties gave a verbal report of their wards.
	Pres. M. W. Snow then addressed the
assembly, and gave some good instruc-
tions.  Many excellent remarks were made
by the different sisters, concerning the du-
ties of mothers, sickness, &c.
	We had a good meeting; the Spirit of
the Lord was with us, and we felt assured
that our next Conference would be better,
this being our first attempt.  Singing,
Prayer by E. S. Calkins.
MINERVA SNOW, President,
E. P. BENTLEY, Cor. Secretary.
St. George, Jan. 5, 1879.


Why is the editorial chair like a back
tooth? Because it is hard to fill.
	THE growing good of the world is partly
dependent on unhistoric facts; and that
things are not so ill with you and me as
might have been is half owing to the num-
ber who lived faithfully a hidden life, and
rest in unvisited tombs.—George Eliot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE UTAH QUESTION ONCE MORE.

	The Anti-Utah crusade has commenced
this year earlier than usual. In his annual
report to the Secretary of the Interior, the
Governor, in a spasm of virtuous indigna-
tion, proposed the disfranchisement of Utah
women. Now, in the name of all justice
and right we ask why the women of Utah
should be disfranchised and not the men of
Utah? If it is on account of polygamy, the
women were not its institutors; if the laws
of Utah are illegal, the women did not
make them. They have been very quiet
politicians, never holding office, never until
this fall, even members of political clubs,
but simply going peaceably to the polls,
casting their votes and going away again. 
It is very easy to see why the Governor
suggests that the women oi Utah should be
disfranchised, and why similar propositions
have at different times been made in regard
to Wyoming. It is because the women of
the States do not hold the ballot that this
great and crying injustice is proposed in
regard to the women of the territories.
	Disfranchisement is deemed a punish-
ment too severe for the worst male crimi-
nals; that felons may not lose the rigot of
sufferage they are largely pardoned. In
the State of New York during one year, 360
criminals were pardoned by the Governor,
one for nearly every day in the year. Every
prison in the state saw criminals set free
from it except the woman's prison at Sing
Sing. Not a single one of the 360 criminals
pardoned, was a woman. Why? Because
women are a disfranchised class. There
were no votes for the Governor lying back
of their freedom. Women might suffer
the full penalty of the law, and mercy
would not interfere. As it was with Gover-
nor Hoffman, so it is with every other
Governor in every other State. Penalties
are visited to the full on the disfranchised
class; justice tempered with mercy is meted
out to the ballot-holding class.
	As it is with Governors, so it is with
Presidents. Hayes has not been in power
very long, but in the fifteen months from
the time of his taking the presidential chair
in March 1877 down to the adjournment of
Congress in June last, he had pardoned 285
male criminals, "restored them to citizen-
ship," as the law terms it; citizenship and
the ballot being recognized as synonmous—
in men. These felons, these law-breakers,
were all pardoned because they belonged to
the class that holds political power in its
hands.
	What a cry would be raised if the Gover-
nor of Utah had proposed to take male suf-
ferage away from Utah, or had even propos-
ed to disfranchise male polygamists. Be-
fore this time, not only every political pa-
per in the country, but every religious pa-
per as well, would have been in strong pro-
test against such an abominable proposi-
tion, but as it is "only women" the country
takes it coolly. Did the women of but a
single State hold political power, we should
hear no more in regard to disfranchising
the women of the territories. Such is the
power of the ballot it holds its aegis even
over the worst male criminals. It is the
great protector.
	The "Gentile" women of Utah have also
addressed Mrs. President Hayes and the
women of the United States—have prepared
a memorial to Congress, and a circular let-
ter to the clergy, against the mormon cus-
tom of plural marriage. But, after all,
what a sham morality is this cry against
plurality of wives. In Utah, until the ad-
vent of the "Gentile" population, there

[Column 2]

were no liquor saloons, no gambling hells,
no houses of prostitution, no paupers and
few criminals. They were not compelled
to lock their doors from theives, and at any
hour of the night a woman was safe to
traverse any part of the city unattended.
But now, through the husbands, fathers,
brothers and friends of the male sex of
these "Gentile" women, institutions have
been established which were previously
unknown in Utah; saloons, gambling dens,
houses of ill-fame." These the "Gentile"
ladies can endure, because they were ac-
customed to such vices in the States, but
plural marriage they feel is more than
their delicate natures can bear. Out upon
such sham hypocrisy and nonsense. For
our part, we think plural marriages stand
white beside the common abominations of
cities; cities did I say? The country every-
where is rotten with lust, and woman is
everywhere the victim of man's vices and
crimes.
	Read the following extracts from a recent
sermon by Rev. T. Dewitt Talmage upon
Vice in the Metropolis, and find these mor-
al hells, tenfold worse than Mormon mar-
riages. And how are these hells supported?
Not by youth, not by young men, not by
recognized and open sinners, but by mar-
ried Christian men of wealth and position,
"judges of courts," "distinguished law-
yers," " officers in churches," "political
orators," "fathers and husbands."
THE LEPERS OF SOCIETY.
	"I have discovered in my midnight ex-
ploration that the haunts of iniquity are
supported by what are called the better
classes. The men who in our cities sup-
port luxuriant vice come down from the
fashionable avenues of New York and cross
over from some of the finest mansions of
Brooklyn, or are prominent citizens from
Chicago, Cincinnati, Pittsburg, Philadel-
phia and Boston. I could call the names of
many of the frequenters of these haunts of
sin, and may call them before I get through
these sermons, though the fabric of New
York and Brooklyn society should tumble
into wreck—judges of courts, distinguished
lawyers, officers in churches, political ora-
tors that talk on the Republican, Democrat-
ic and Greenback platforms about God and
good morals till you might almost take
them for evangelists expecting a thousand
converts in one night. On the night of our
exploration I saw their carriages leaving
these dignitaries at the shambles of death.
Call the roll in the house of dissipation, and
if the inmates will answer you will find
stock-brokers from Wall street, large im-
porters on Broadway, iron merchants,
leather merchants, hardware merchants,
cotton merchants wholesale grocers and
representatives from all the wealthy class-
es.
HOMES AND MARRIAGE VOWS BETRAYED.
	But I have something to tell you more
astonishing than that the houses of iniquity
are supported by wealthy people when I
tell you they are supported by the heads of
families—fathers and husbands, with the
awful perjury upon them of broken marri-
age vows; and while many of them keep
their families on niggardly portions, with
hardly enough to sustain life, have their
thousands for the diamonds and wardrobe
and equipage of iniquity. In the name of
high heaven I cry out against this popular
iniquity. Such men must be cast out from
social life and from business relations. If
they will not reform, overboard with them
from all decent circles. I lift one-half the
burden of malediction from the unpitied
head of woman and hurl it upon the blasted

[Column 3]

pate of offending man. What society
wants is a new division of its anathema. By
what law of justice does the burning ex-
coriation on society pursue offending wo-
man down off the precipice, while offending
man goes kid-gloved into respectable cir-
cles, invited up if he has money and means,
forwarded into political recognition, and
all the doors of high life opening to the rap
of his gold headed cane?" 
	Here is polygamy at our very doors.
	Because Mr. Talmage dare lay bare these
sins in the heart of the Metropolis of all
North America, he has become the target
of the press, the most abused man in all
America. He knows it, and says the rea-
son is, "these church lepers don't want
their scabs touched."
	For our own part we honor Mr. Talmage;
he is nobly battling for women, and point-
ing out as no other man dare point out, the
vices and crimes of his own sex—of his
Christian brethren. Why are not these
things but an end to in New York? Be-
cause nobody wants them to be. The po-
lice have such full control that in some of
these dens no man enters without their per-
mission. They are not destroyed because
those in power do not want them destroy-
ed. They are not destroyed because dis-
franchised woman is held as the mere
plaything of ballot-holding men. That is
why. Ten vile men are required to support
one 'abandoned' woman. In Utah we have
religious polygamy; in New York we have
irreligious polygamy as well as polyandry.
In Utah, the polygamous wife still bears
the name of wife. In New York the wo-
man of many husbands is hated and scorned
by those very men who 'support' her.
Faugh! what a stench in the nostrils has
the word "support" become.
	The polygamous wife in Utah stores
grain, makes silk, belongs to relief socie-
ties, is foremost in every good work. Let
Utah alone and begin with the male sin-
ners of the Empire State. 
"THE WOMEN OF UTAH PROJECT." 
	The above is the heading of an article in
the Territorial Enquirer, of Provo City,
Utah, in which an account is given of a
mass meeting of Mormon women at the
Temple to protest against the intervention
of "Gentile" women in their religious
affairs.
	Some 2,000 women were present. The
Enquirer says the women of Utah are un-
der the impression they are their own free
agents and are perfectly competent "to
paddle their own canoe."
	addresses were made claiming the right
of protection in the free exercise of their
religion, and declaring Congress had as
much right to legislate against baptism by
immersion as against plurality of wives.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, editor of the
Woman's Exponent, expressed her aston-
ishment that women should rise against
women, and although she cherished no ill-
feeling towards them, they could rest
assured that it would be "diamond cut dia-
mond." She closed by saying she thanked
God there were some who were not afraid
to publish a word favorable to the "poor,
down-trodden women of Utah."
	Mrs. Wells is a member of the Advisory
Committee of the National Woman's Suf-
frage Association.
	Several resolutions were passed, but we
have only room for the following:
	Resolved, That we protest against the
enactment of any laws which deprive
American citizens, whether male or female,
of any constitutional rights; and that we
make a united effort to secure the unani-


mous voice of the women of our faith to
plead the passage of the sixteenth amend-
ment during the coming session of con-
gress.
	Resolved, That we do truly appreciate the
efforts and labors of the noble ladies of the
National Woman’s Sufferage Association,
who, though opposed in their feelings to
plural marriage and without sympathy for
our religious views bravely defended the
cause of woman's rights in Utah in the halls
of congress, and we take this public oppor-
tunity of tenderitg them an expression of
our sincere and heartfelt thanks.
	We fear these things are the commence-
ment of serious trouble, both religious and
political, for our country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWENTY IMPOLITE THINGS.

1. Loud and boisterous laughing.
2.  Reading when others are talking.
3.  Talking when others are reading.
4.  Cutting finger nails in company.
5.  Joking others in company.
6. Gazing rudely at strangers.
7.  Leaving a stranger without a seat.
9.  Reading aloud in company without
being asked. 
10. Spitting about the house, smoking
or chewing.
11.  Leaving church before worship is
closed.
12. Whispering or laughing in the
house of God.
13.  A want of respect and reverence for
seniors.
14. Correcting older persons than your-
self, especially, your parents.
15.  Receiving a present without an ex-
pression of gratitude.
16. Not listening to what one is saying
in company.
17.  Commencing to eat as soon as you
get to the table.
18.  Answering questions that have been
put to others.
19.  Commencing talking before others
have finished speaking.
20.  Laughing at the mistakes of others.


CHARITY.

	Charity is every where esteemed to be
one of the most essential elements to the
formation of character, in the life of a
christian it is indispensable. The New
Testament in summing up all the gifts and
qualifications of a saint speaks in the strong-
est terms upon this good gift.
	By all people every where, charity is con-
sidered one of the most precious qualities
of the human soul. Without it, we are
told in the Bible, all other gifts are as
nought. When we speak of the bestowings
of charity, it is generally understood giving
to the poor, or unfortunate; and in this,
there are many degrees and many motives,
and great wisdom is needed to discern be-
tween true and false charity, or honest and
selfish motives.
	Charity in its true sense is not giving
without consideration to all that ask, while
we have the means to dispose of without
denying ourselves. To be truly charitable
covers a large surface and includes many
things. Life is rendered more pleasant,
and the society of our friends more harmo-
nious by the exercise of this virtue. If we
are ready to judge and condemn our friends
and acquaintances for every little frivolous
thing, we should be always having some-
thing disagreeable to meet. Life would be


robbed of much of its sweetness, if we did
not exercise charity towards each others
shortcomings. "There are none perfect,"
said the Savior, "no not once." For this rea-
son, if for no other, we should cultivate
this gift and seek to beautify our lives with
it. It is a trial of character to which all
young people should give special attention,
for it will render them more agreeable to
others, more happy in themselves and more
pleasing to God. We cannot be to careful
in judging the faults or weaknesses of
others, and here charity is needed to make
us lenient, long suffering and kind. Charity
for others will give us time to deliberate
before we pass judgement, but if we are
hasty in condemning what seems to us to
be wrong, we may have reason to repent. 
	For the exercise of charity towards those,
who are from any cause dependent, one is
sure to learn lessons of humility; and often
in contemplating the sorrows or unhappy
lot to those we minister, we are taught
patience and meekness; and we are thus
inspired with gratitude for the many bless-
ings we are in possession of.
	Faith, hope and charity are classed to-
gether as all important to salvation but,
"the greatest of these is charity," we
should not feel that charity only consists
in giving to the needy or that it is only in
forgiving those who offend us, but charity
enters into our early lives and gives a tone
to our natures that will help us to endure
many of the evils we have to meet with
here, and to overcome in ourselves much
that is wrong.
	Charity is a part of the religion of our
blessed Savior, and in no other life has it
ever been so strikingly exemplified; even
upon the cross He had charity for His
enemies and prayed "Father forgive them,
for they know not what they do."


For the EXPONENT.
	ORNAMENTAL GARDENING.

	At one of the monthly Sunday School
Union meetings, your correspondent was
interested in a proposition made by Coun-
sler Evens, viz. that the Sunday School
Union devise some plan to stimulate in
teachers and scholars the cultivation of
flowers, the speaker dwelt on the various use
and pleasures that a properly systematised
plan of floral culture would afford and
seemed to leave the subject open for fur-
ther suggestions, the subject has so many
important branches that it should not be
lost sight of. The cultivation of flowers by
the young leads to industrial habits to ac-
quaintance with the powers and qualities of
Mother Earth, inspires health, devotion,
refinement and affection. Permit me to
suggest that a floral central committee con-
sisting of gentlemen and ladies be elected by
the Union whose duty it shall be to collect
seeds, roots, shrubs &c. for distribution and
exchange and to collect and disseminate
information on the best methods of orna-
mental gardening. Sub committees can be
extensively appointed by whose coopera-
tion a branch of beautifieing and happifie-
ing, labor can be greatly improved and ex-
tended, the write hopes suggestions will
be presented until some practical action is
taken on the subject.
	A LOVER OF FLOWERS.


WOMEN'S MASS MEETING

FAIRVIEW, UTAH.

Meeting held on the 19th December, 1878.
he assembly called to order and object


stated by Mrs. M. A. Pritchett, who was
then chosen chairman.  Singing.  Prayer
by Mrs. T. Avery.  Singing.  Mrs. T.
Avery then chosen Secretary, and L. A.
Wilson Assistant Secretary.  The follow-
ing committee chosen to draft resolutions:
Lois A. Wilson, T. Avery, E. Cox, R. San-
derson, L. Terry, Lois Jordan, M. Cheney,
M. Larsen.  Committee withdrew.  Address
of Anti-polygamic mass meeting to Mrs.
Hayes, was read by R. Tucker.
Extempore addresses were then delivered
by Mrs. A. M. Peterson, T. Avery, Mary
Larsen, Margaret Cheney, Elvira Cox, Le-
vee Terry, Sarah J. Sanderson, Lena Brady,
Lois Jordan, Maria Larsen, Lois A. Wilson
and Martha Cheney.  Each of these ladies
bore a strong testimony in regard to the
truth of plural marriage.
Committee returned the following report:
Resolved, That we adopt the preamble
and resolutions of the mass meeting of the
ladies of the Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake
City, and coincide with their sentiments.
Mrs. Mary A. Pritchett and Mrs. Chris-
tiansen then expressed their opinions upon
the subject under discussion. Singing
Benediction by Maria Larsen.
L. A. WILSON, Reporter.
ALMA, UINTA CO., WYOMING.
On the 22d December last a meeting of
the sisters of Alma was called for the pur-
pose of protesting against the Anti polyga-
my petition now in circulation.  Com-
menced at 6:30 p. m., and was attended by
nearly all the sisters in the ward.  Prayer
was offered by Sister Brown.  Mrs. Cath-
erine Beveridge, President of the Relief
Society, was chosen President, Miss Lizzie
Bruce, Secretary.
Mrs. Beveridge then stated that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to give the sisters
a chance to state their feelings on the Anti-
polygamy Bill which had been gotten up by
some of the Gentiles of Utah.  Advised
the sisters, if any there were, who did not
believe in plural maraiage not to speak
against it, for the angels of God were tak-
ing notes of our transactions this night.
She not only believed in plural marriage,
but was willing to practice the same; would
rather be the plural wife of a good man
and be acknowledged as one of his wives,
than to be the wife of an unrighteous man
on any condition.  She solemnly protested
against the Anti-polygamy bill, as being an
infringement on the rights of American
citizens and on the laws of God.
Preamble and resolutions which were
read and adopted by the woman's mass
meeting in Salt Lake City were read and
unanimously sustained by the sisters pre-
sent.
Short speeches were then made by the
following sisters, protesting against the
Anti-polygamy bill:  Mrs. Danks, Mrs.
Woodhouse, Mrs. M. A. Kiddy, Mrs.
Johnston, Mrs. M. Fowkes, Mrs. Evans,
Mrs. Russel, Mrs. S. A. Danks, Mrs. Brad-
shaw, Mrs. L. Beveridge, Mrs. Henry, Mrs.
M. J. Ball, Mrs. Thomas.. Prayer by Mrs.
Woodhouse.
LIZZIE BRUCE, Secretary.


FRUIT CAKE.—One pound of butter, one
pound of brown sugar, ten eggs, one pound
of flour scorched, four pounds raisins, three
pounds of currants, one pound of citron, half
pint brandy, half ounce of mace, half ounce
of cloves, half ounce of cinnamon, one cup
of molasses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE concert given in Academy Hall at
Provo by the students of the B. Y. Acade-
my Friday evening Dec. 20, 1878. was a
grand success. Where all was excellent it
is hard to bestow any special praise. Re-
flecting great credit as it did on the excell-
ent training given in the Academy, each
performance still showed individual talent.
The literary portion under Miss Teenie
Smoot was excellent. The costuming ar-
ranged by Mrs. Z. Y. Williams could not
be excelled in Salt Lake. One felt surpris-
ed and pleased at the smooth manner in
which all the scenes and various songs, &c.
were presented. There was no hitch no
jar, and the opening and the closing prayer
given by one of the students placed the
whole evening's entertainment far above
anything of the kind ever given here. One
feature, was quite noteworthy. The direct-
ion of the whole musical part by Miss Susa
Young proves that there is another place
where woman acquits herself quite as
creditably as man. The affair might be
justly termed the best of the kind ever
given in Provo. 
	WASHINGTON dispatches announce the
arrival there of our delegates to the Nati-
onal Womans Suffrage Convention, and
the fact that Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
Y. Williams have taken seats in that body.
These are the first delegates ever sent from
Utah to a woman's convention, and marks
an new era in the suffrage movement in
our territory. If nothing else is accom-
plished the presence of these ladies in the
capacity of delegates representing the wo-
men here and giving expression to their
sentiments and feelings is certain of pro-
ducing a salutary effect in the course of
time. We now have an opportunity of
representing ourselves, and in all probabil-
ity may make a better impression before
the world than have those who have vol-
untarly undertaken to represent our cause
for us. Among the first acts of the Conven-
tion was the adoption of a resolution ap-
pointing a committee to wait on President
Hayes, and recall to his mind the fact that
there were 20,000,000 women in the United
States whose existence he appeared to have
forgotton in his recent message toCongress;
also that he might find it advisable to di-
rect the attention of those who constitute
that recent innovation—the hospitel for po-
litical incurables, commonly called Congress,
in his future messages.


HYGIENIC NOTE.

	Nerves and Noises.—Newspaper writers are
commenting extensively upon the uproar of cities.
They say that nature has provided the eye with a
contrivance for protecting itself against unpleasant
sights, and one has only to hold his nose in com-
ing in contact with anything disagreeable to the
olfactories. Meanwhile the ears stand open like
open doors that cannot be shut. All sorts of
rackets from the bells of the peddlers to the sharp
clanking of the cars of the elevated railroad, rap
on the ear-drum. It has been suggested that if
Edison, or somebody, could invent some kind of a
contrivance to be worn over the ears that would
take up all these discordant sound-waves and ar-
range them into concord and music, life in our
cities might be made more tolerable.—Health
Monthly.


GENUINE benevolence is not stationary,
but peripatetic; it "goeth about doing
good."—W. Nevins.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ.
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soup, warranted First Class,
3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, - - 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) - - - 35 Cents each
Brooms, - - - - - 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO 
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1 25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence—Ephriam, Sanpete County.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women. 

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street. 
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and
	Second South Streets.
Special attention given to obstetrics and diseases of
Children, also disease[-] of the throat and Lungs.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its bran[-]hes.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing 
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furn[-]shing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

WINTER COODS
DAILY ARRIVING
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT 
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
	Salesroom to
	No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
thing pertaining to a first-class, Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable e quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders [-]o
	WM. H. ROWE.
	SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 1, 1979.	No. 17.


OLD SONGS.
Air, "I'm leaving thee in sorrow, Annie"
Oh! how a simple song can waken
Forgotten old-time scenes,
That come with pathos nearly breaking
The heart that on them leans,
Old songs! old songs!  I cannot hear them,
But stealing to my heart
Come memories once breathing near them,
That will not thence depart.
CHORUS.
Old songs, lie silent in the bygones,
Ye only waken pain;
For joys now past beyond recalling,
Or woes awake again.
Oh! faded hopes, once bright and shining,
Upborne by wings of prayer:
Oh! faded love, with hope entwining,
Pure as the sunlit air,
Ye waken from the long, long sleeping
At the sunset Luriel call;
And worldly eyes again are weeping
Beneath sons music thrail.
CHORUS.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
JOSEPHINE, WIFE OF NAPOLEON I,
AND EMPRESS OF FRANCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	Eugene, whose temperament though re-
served was enthusiastic, and whose rever-
ential admiration of his father's character
had already taken deep root in such a dis-
position, learning this fact, determined on
recovering so precious a relic. Though
only fourteen, he presented himself with
boldness and address at the Levee of the
Commander-in-chief, requesting the restora-
tion of his father's sword. The counte-
nance and frank bearing of the boy pleased
the young soldier, who immediately, with
his own hand, restored the object of filial
solicitude. Kissing the sword, Eugene
thanked him with a flood of grateful tears,
calling him his indulgent benefactor—and
all this in a manner so simple and touching
that General Bonaparte was charmed with
his behavior.
	On the morrow Madame de Beauharnais
called at the Hotel of Head-quarters to
thank the General for his condescension to
her son. Bonaparte returned the visit; he
was a man of fastidious taste, but was at
once charmed with the graceful manner of
Josephine, and from that time a friendship
sprang up between them that never ceased
but with their lives.
	Napoleon and Josephine were married
March 9th, 1790, by the revolutionary forms
at that time in force. Twelve days after
he set out for Italy, as Commander-in-chief
of the Republican armies in that country.
His numerous letters to her during this re-
markable campaign breathe the most ro-
mantic passion, expressed in the most ar-
dent language. During his absence she led
a life of seclusion, devoted to the education
of her children; she was the most loving
mother, and her children returned her love
with affection and obedience.
	In this brief memoir only the veriest
outline of her eventful life can be given.

[Column 2]

Napoleon was now rapidly rising to the re-
markable eminence which he at last at-
tained,and Josephine and her children rose,
of course in the same ratio; he was ever
watchful over their promotion and interests
as though they had been his own children,
and Josephine ever spoke of his goodness
to them with the warmest gratitude. Na-
poleon rose from General to First Consul,
and at last Emperor of France, and among
his first acts he raised Eugene and Hortense
to titles of royalty; and in future days the
former was made Viceroy of Italy, and the
latter became Queen of Holland by marry-
ing Napoleon's brother, Louis, whom he
had made King of Holland. Eugene sub-
sequently married the Princess Royal of
Bavaria, which proved a most happy alli-
ance. At this time Josephine had attained
the acme of human happiness and grand-
eur—"the sharer of one of the most
splendid European thrones, beloved by the
wonderful man who had placed her there,
adored by the French nation, and respected
even by enemies." Her children occupied
stations second only to her own, and a pros-
pect that they would succeed to Empire
when death should relax the giant grasp
that now swayed the sceptre. It was a
cruel disappointment to Napoleon and Jo-
sephine that they had no child to inherit
their throne. The first child of Hortense
was remarkably beautiful and very intelli-
gent; he was named Napoleon Charles.
Napoleon loved him with intense affection,
and gave many assurances that he should
be his heir! But "man proposes and God
disposes"—death seized this child of so
many hopes and prayers at the age of five
years, to the great sorrow of all his family.
Before the birth of this child Napoleon had
named Eugene as his heir, repeatedly say-
ing he was worthy of a crown. Josephine
felt disconsolate, for she began to feel the
dark destiny that was approaching her, even
in her exalted position, which the life of
this child would have averted. The second
child of Hortense was to be the child of
destiny—this grandson of Josephine, Louis
Napoleon, in after years became Emperor
of France, whose eventful life is the sub-
ject of this present age.
	Now commenced the beginning of the
mighty end of her regal life! Napoleon
himself announced to Josephine that a di-
vorce was necessary, that he might found a
new dynasty to this—an heir to his Empire
was imperative! Her suffering at first were
exquisite; it seemed like the separation of
soul and body, this parting from the hus-
band she loved so well! She also loved
France, was as patriotic as he could be.
What joy and satisfaction would she have
experienced could she have known and
been permitted to embrace such a princi-
ple as Celestial Marriage. Freely would
she have given the Austrian Princess,
Maria Louisa, to her husband, could she
still have retained the name of wife; his
"friend," as she had ever fondly called
herself—yes, his friend and counselor as
she had ever been; and Napoleon would
have shared her feelings, for she was most
assuredly the wife of his heart. As it was
she stands as the noblest self-sacrificing
woman on record, for she had no God-given

[Column 3]

principle on which to fall back for support.
Still the eye of God was visibly upon her,
and His Spirit sustained her, or she could
not have passed the fiery ordeal with the
fortitude and sweet dignity that shone
through every deportment, while the iron
pierced her own soul! She lived to see and
bless the boy whom Napoleon himself an-
nounced as "the King of Rome" at the
hour of his birth. The child was often
permitted to visit her, and Napoleon was
ever kind and considerate to her, and by
every means in his power ever sought to
benefit and bless her, and this, to her lov-
ing heart, was all she desired.	
	Time rushed on! Napoleon again be-
came an exile, by the failure of his Rus-
sian expedition. Maria Louisa declined to
follow him in his fallen fortunes—it was
the Emperor she married, the man was
nothing to her in his adversity. Josephine,
the true woman, the devoted wife, writes
to him when passing into exile, every
word of which ought to be written in gold;
she desired to follow him into exile, that
she might attend upon him and console
him. She concludes with these words:
"Adieu, Sire; it is no longer by words that
my sentiments for you are to be proven,
but for action your consent is necessary!"
	Every attention was still paid to her as
the ex-Empress, and Malmaison was still
her residence; but her mind was constantly
excited by the knowledge that he who had
been her hero and her husband was an
exile! Her health delined; at first it was
not thought to be serious, she herself made
light of it; but a short time convinced her
friends, and then herself, that the final
scene was approaching. She was calm and
cheerful as ever, and on the 29th of May,
1814, her tried spirit passed to that land
"Where the wicked cease from troubling,
and the weary are at rest." At midday on
the 2d of June, 1814, the funeral moved
forward from Malmaison, and at 5 o'clock
in the evening the body of the Empress
Josephine was consigned to a humble
tomb in the village church of Ruel. The
spot is now marked by a monument of white
marble, and bears the simple yet touching
inscription—
"EUGENE AND HORTENSE TO JOSEPHINE."


THE committee of the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, appointed to wait upon
the President were received very cordially by
him. After the memorial had been presented
by the suffrage ladies, the two ladies from Utah
addressed the President, urging him not to
sign the bill now pending in committees of the
House and Senate.
	The entire interview was conducted by the
ladies in a calm manner, and distinguished
especially for the brevity each speaker observed
in presenting an array of facts, with a determi-
nation to occupy as little of the valuable time
of the President as possible. Before they rose
to leave, he asked them if he should bring Mrs.
Hayes in to see them, this was joyfully accept-
ed, and after the President withdrew,
leaving his wife with them, a pleasant talk was
had with her by the Mormon ladies. Mrs.
Hayes, when the ladies rose to go, showed
them all the bedrooms in the House, and had
them conducted through the conservatories.
Our Utah delegates have been before the Judi-
ciary committees of both the House and Senate,
and have presented to them the facts of the
Mormon case in writing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	Kanab Jan. 6, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	June 9, 1878.—The Relief Society of the
different wards were organized into a 
Stake Society, under the direction of Pres.
L. John Nuttall, E. Nuttall was appointed
president, H. Bunting and L. A. Johnson
Counselors, M. E. Little Secretary, L. A.
Johnson Assistent Secretary and E. H. D.
Solomon Treasurer. Since then Pres. Nut-
tall and her Counselors have organized
Relief Societies in three other wards Glen-
dale, orderville and Pahreah. The first
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socities
of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was held in
the Kanab School House Dec. 6, 1878. Pres.
E. Nuttle presided. There were also pres-
ent Pres. H. Bunting of the Kanab ward,
and Pres. J. Johnson of Johnson ward.
There were present by invitation Pres. L.
J. Nuttall and Bishop W. D. Johnson Jun.
The meeting was called to order by Pres.
E. Nuttall. After singing and prayer, the
Secretary read the statistical and financial
reports of the six ward societies in the
stake, the table is as follows.
No. of members enrolled...............258
Average attendance........................123
No. of meetings held......................  72
Total of receipts........................$ 88 69
Disbursments:
To the poor...............................        .25
To Manti Temple.....................$   53 50
For sundries.............................$     8 60
Total disbursments...................$   62 35
We have in the Treasury:
Cash.........................................$  10 00
Wheat, 22 bu...........................$   63 00
Beans, 35 lbs...........................$     1 40
Merchandise............................$   26 90
Sundries..................................$  116 24
Total in the Treasury...............$  217 54
Sister Nuttall said she wished the sisters
to speak as the spirit dictated. Pres. John-
son gave a good report of her ward, and
said the sisters were trying to do all the
good they could. Pres. Bunting made
some timely remarks in reference to home
manufacture, the storing of grain, raising
of beans seri culture &c. She earnestly ex-
horted the sisters to speak well of plural
marriage, for it is a pure and holy principle
and should not be spoken of lightly. The
Glendale ward was represented by Sister
Stuart, the President of the teachers. Pres.
L. J. Nuttall spoke of the great responsi-
bility of mothers in raising their children.
He said the impressions made in childhood
were seldom, if ever erased. We remem-
ber the sayings and doings of our mothers,
when we forget all others. Let the father
help the mother, and the mothers teach
the children to emulate their fathers, in all
good works. He told mothers not to keep
their daughters in ignorance of things they
ought to know, from a sense of mock mod-
esty. He made other excelent remarks, on
the Woman's Mass Meeting in Salt Lake
City, home manufacture, storing of grain
and other matters of interest.
	Bishop W. D. Johnson expressed much
pleasure in meeting with the sisters, there
was such a quiet peaceful spirit in their
meeting. He gave them great credit for
the help they had been to him. He wished
them to treasure up the good counsels they
had received.
	Pres. E. Nuttall said she was thankful
for the good counsel from Brothers Nuttall

[Column 2]

and Johnson, she hoped the sisters would
carry the good spirit home with them, and
so speak of this meeting that it will be an
incentive to the sisters not present, that at
the next conference there may be a full
attendance. Sang "How firm a Founda-
tion." Benediction by Sister Bunting.
	Our Pres. E. Nuttall and her Counselors
H. Bunting and L. A. Johnson are energet-
ic live women, their greatest desire is to
help build up the Kingdom, benefit their
fellow creatures and work out the problem
of life and salvation.
	M. E. Little Stake Sec'y.

	Minutes of a meeting celebrating the
first anniversary of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward, held at the residence of
Mrs. Elerbeck. Jan. 16th, 1879.
	There were present, as visitors, Sisters
M. Hyde, Z. D. Young, B. Smith, M.
Freaze, H. T. King and others. The meet-
ing was opened by singing "The Spirit of
God like a Fire is Burning;" prayer by Sis-
ter Zina D. Young, followed by singing.
	The Yearly Report being called for, was
read and accepted, after which a short pro-
gramme was carried out, consisting of
piano solos, recitations,essays, songs &c. On
invitation from the Pres. Sisters Hyde,
Zina D. Young; Mary Freeze and others ad-
dressed the association for a short time.
much instruction and excellent advice were
given; the general tone of which urged the
necessity of exercising faith, relying on
God for assistance, however small the un-
dertaking, and as all young ladies look for-
ward to becoming wives, they should pre-
pare themselves for the holy office of
mother-hood, becoming proficient to teach
those principles that lead to the exaltation
and happiness of the human family. The
time being well spent, the meeting was
brought to a close by singing and prayer.
The company repairing to the supper-table.
where a bounteous repast was enjoyed by
all.
	Sedenia Pack Sec'y.

	PARIS BEAR LAKE Co. IDAHO.
		Jan. 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 3rd inst. the 2nd ward R. S. of
this place celebrated anniversary of its or-
ganization, in a very agreeable manner. At
5 oclock p. m. the sisters accompanied by
their husbands and friends, assembled in
the School House, which was tastefully
decorated for the occasion, and partook of
a bountiful supper. After supper the gen-
eral monthly meeting was held, at which,
the report of the year was read; and ad-
dresses, containing good instruction, were
given by Pres. C. C. Rich, Bishops R. Price,
H. J. Horne, Pres. Maria Rich, and coun-
selors Mrs, Collins and Eliza Rich of Paris
1st ward R. S. and others.
	The remainder of the evening was spent
in dancing, singing &c. Judging from the
countenances of those present, all thorough-
ly enjoyed themselves: indeed it was truly
enjoyable to see the old folks of "three
score and ten" and upwards joining heartily
in the dance with those of younger years;
and to hear the expressions of delight and
good feeling, from all present.
	P. T. O.
	The following is a condensed report of
the one before referred to:—
	Yearly Statement of Paris 2nd ward R. S.
Dec. 31st 1878.
To property on hand Jan.1 1878....$113 00
Property made, bought, and donated
	by members to date.................   43 00

[Column 3]

Cash &c. donated from members
	Society.................................  44 48 1/2
Cash &c. denoted from members
for Logan Temple........................  31 82
Amt. of div'd drawn on Coop store 2 00
and candles..................................    6 30
                                                     240 59 1/2
By property disbursed................$    6 70
Transfer of 15 bu. of wheat to
wheat acc't..................................    18 00
Property on hand........................   131 30
Cash &c. given to the sick.........     18 76
Cash paid for drapery &c...........     29 60
Cash paid for stationary.............       1 30
Cash butter &c. paid to Logan
Temple.......................................     25 85
Balance—Cash &c. on hand......       9 08 1/2
                                                     -------------
                                                     240 59 1/3

	WHEAT ACCOUNT
To transfer from property acc't......15 bu.
Donations from members..............19 1/4
Total                                             344
Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
	MARY ANN SHEPHERD Pres.
	EMILY M. SHEPHERD Sec'y.

	FILLMORE CITY. Jan. 8, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the first ward of Fill.
more Relief Society were organized Nov.
14, 1877 by Pres. J. N. Hanckley and Coun-
selors. When the following named sisters
were elected:
	R. M. Pratt President
	Sarah L. Partridge	Counselors.
	Jean Holbrook
	F. M. Brown Secretary.
	Martha Robison Treasurer.
	There are sixty six members and officers
enrolled, we hold our meetings three times
a month, our general meetings are held the
first Thursday in each month.
	FINANCIAL REPORTS.
Total receipts...................................$182 23
Disbursed to the needy....................$124 75
To Manti Temple..............................$ 11 50
Wheat, mulbery cuttings, work &c..$ 15 60
Cash on hand....................................$ 47 53
Provision..........................................$    2 00
Total.................................................. 201 38
	Leaving a ballance of:.............$   20 85
Wheat stored............ ..............107bu. 50 lbs
All seem willing to do all in their power
for the advancement of the work in which
we are engaged, and a spirit of love and
union seems to prevail. We feel it impor-
tant to be up and doing, as we look at the
spirit of the times, and we realize that we
must be humble and faithfull to be able to
stand.
	Very respectfully.
			B. M. Pratt Pres.
		F. M. Brown Sec'y.


The Herald of Health records the fact that
Harriet Hosmer, the eminent sculptress and may-
be inventor, is the only surviving member of a fam-
ily of six or seven children.  She was the young-
est child in a family of strong hereditary consump-
tive tendencies.  When all the other children had
died of this disease the father took his last one,
Harriet from school and encouraged her to en-
gage in vigorous out-door sports.  Thus she was
saved to a life of usefulness; and the same plan
would save many others who die of slow con-
sumption.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TIRED MOTHERS

	A little elbow leans upon your knee -
		Your tired knee that has so much to bear;
	A child's dear eyes are looking lovingly
		From underneath a thatch of tangled hair.
	Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch
		Of warm, moist fingers, folding yours so tight;
	You do not prize this blessing overmuch 
		You almost are too tired to pray to-night.

	But it is a blessedness.  A year ago
		I did not see it as I do to-day
	We are so dull and thankless, and too slow
		To catch the sunshine till it slips away.
	And now it seems surpassing strange to me
		That, while I wore the badge of motherhood
	I did not kiss more oft and tenderly
		The little child that brought me only good.

	And if, some night, when you sit down to rest
		You miss this elbow from your tired knee,
	This restless, curly head from off your breast,
		This lisping tongue that chatters constantly;
	If from your own the dimpled hands had slipped,
		And ne'er would nestle in your palm again;
	If the white feet into the grave had tripped,
		I could not blame you for your heartache then.

	I wonder so that mothers ever fret
		At little children clinging to their gown;
	Or that the footprints, when the days are wet,
		Are ever black enough to make them frown.
	If I could find a little muddy boot,
		Or cap, or jacket on my chamber floor;
	If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot,
		And hear its patter in my home once more.

	If I could mend a broken cart to-day,
		To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky
	There is no woman in God's world could say
		She was more blissfully content than I
	But ah! the dainty pillow next my own
		Is never rumpled by a shining head:
	My singing birdling from its nest is flown:
		The little boy I used to kiss is dead. 
									- SELECTED.


<o .ituu:="" .—i="" 1="" ’y="" 11—r———="" pnlob="" fllajvqjxat'!by="" theky2cy.1’w="" aio="" lovlt="" ,="">			CHAT BY THE WAY.

	Learn to adapt yourself to circumstances;
circumstances cannot adapt themselves to
you. There was a preacher once, so the
papers say, who was better able to accom-
modate himself to circumstances than any
one we have lately heard of.  His sermon
were as well assorted as the colors of the
rainbow; if he was invited to a Presbyte-
rian pulpit, he selected his manuscript from
the true blue; if to a Calvinistic pulpit, he
chose one from the yellow, the color of fire;
and if to a Universalist pulpit - for he is
many sided, and bright on all sides, and is
not so prejudiced but he can preach any
where when the fee is alluring - he takes a
sermon from some of the paler and more
indistinct colors.  He works on the Euro-
pean plan, giving to each church whatever
it wants and will pay for.  Yes, he adapted
himself to circumstances, but we know a
better minister than that, and something
better than adapting oneself to circum-
stances, it is knowing how to occupy one's
time. This minister we were speaking of
used to say to his flock, "Brethren, you
may desire to know how I have occupied
my time during the past year.  It took just
six months of the year for me to attend to
my own business, and the other six months
to let other people's business alone."
	Don't tell secrets to any one, not even
your best friend; for "A secret once told is
a secret no longer," and we once heard a
young lady say that she dearly loved to
have some one confide a great secret in her,
for then she always had something inter-
esting to talk about at the next sewing bee.
Our advice is don't have secrets.
Don't sulk over split milk, it does not
pay. Some men, when they have split
their milk on the ground, sit down by the
wet spot and dilute the lost lacteal fluid
with their briny tears; there is a lesson they
haven't learned yet that the boy who lost
his kite might teach them - at first he
thought he would cry about it, but imme-
diately afterward determined not to and
went home whistling; when asked if he
was not sorry to lose his treasure he re-
plied, "Yes, but I can't fool away much
time in being sorry; I'm just going to make
a new one, and I guess a better one." Chil-
dren tell us as much truth as the catechism.
A grave school inspector, with a face which
resembled the lengthened line of misery,
was trying to impress some infant minds
with awful facts; sternly looking into their
happy faces he asked, with "a voice from
the tombs," "Children, do you know who
loves all men?"  The silence was oppress-
ive for a moment, but the conundrum must
be answered, and one little bit of humanity
in the far-off corner timidly lifted her head.
"Ah!" glumly observed the tragic inspect-
or; "well, child, you will tell the whole
school who loves all men."  She rose,
stroked the wrinkles out of her pretty
white apron, and answered with a shrill
voice, "All women, sir!"
	Don't gossip; it isn't right.  Don't com-
mence it, for if ever you begin  it is the
hardest work in the world to stop.  The
hardest thing to get a good hold on is your
own tongue.  If you could only keep still
at the right time you would save yourself
many a heartache.  A young friend of
mine once remarked, on leaving the house
where several of her acquaintances were
visiting, "I did so hate to leave, I wonder
if any one there will speak good of me; do
you think they will criticise my appearance
and manner, or talk of what I have been
doing within the last week?"  "Both," re-
plied her companion; "they'll pick you all
to pieces."  At a reception not long ago,
the hostess seeing that the conversation was
dragging considerably, asked one of her
guests to go home so that the others might
have something to talk about.
	Never speak much of your own perform-
ances.  I knew a gentleman who used to
talk so much about his good singing that
when it was asked if he could sing people
used to say, "He says he can."
	Never fail to be punctual at the time ap-
pointed.  It is hardly necessary to elabor-
ate that theme, since it is so widely
preached.  Never make yourself the hero
of your own story.  Many a person has
failed to gain popularity from that one thing.
	Never exaggerate.  If exaggeration does
add color to your story, sometimes the
color spoils the cloth.  I'd much rather
have the true story than the hyperbole,
and who would not rather drink water than
paint. Color adds beauty, but it adds poi-
son too.


<j .="" i="" a="" 4ell<="" i.="" ,.thq="" .apostle,="" speajrs="" of="" jesus="" hayingeenf="" led="" up="" out’of'="" the="" spirit="" into="" ,="" wilderness="" to="" bq="" tempted="" by.="" doyijjlhai="" affep.past-="" ing="" forty="" days="" and="" nights="" hot="" wa’="" ari="" hung'red;="" whpreupon="" tempter="" camo‘="" tii'ana="" feald':1’ifthou="" be="" son="" god="" ctfmmdnd'that="" these="" stores="" made="" bread,”:="" buvho="" ans#dred="" saying,="" “man="" shall="" live="" by="" bread="" along,="" but="" by'every="" word,="" that'="" '“proefeds'outof="" mouth="" go(t.”this="" i3="" jft="" say="" ink="" "which="" wb="" have="" all="" heard="" probably="" many1="" tinio’f,="" -blit1="" thd="" puebtion="" naturally="" 'lv			TEMPTATION.

AN ESSAY READ AT THE MUTUAL IMPROVE-
	MENT ASSOCIATION OF THE YOUNG LA-
	DIES OF THE 17TH WARD.

	The apostle speaks of Jesus having been
led up out of the spirit into the wilderness
to be tempted by the devil; that after last-
ing forty days and forty nights he was an
hungered; whereupon the tempter came to
him and said: "If thou be the son of God
command that these stones be made bread,"
but he answered saying, "Man shall not
live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceeds out of the mouth of God."  This is
a saying which we have all heard probably
many times, but the question naturally
arises; Do we thoroughly understand the
Saviours answer as he intended it?  He
was so very comprehensive in his express-
ions which contained so much wisdom,
that in many of his sayings, far more is
meant than the mere words would seem to
convey. We all know and thoroughly rea-
lize that food alone is insufficient for the
physical and spiritual wellfare of mankind;
also the words of God set down for his
children to obey, must be implicitly follow-
ed by them to secure their future salvation.
None knew this better than the Saviour;
and, although possessing, as he undoubted-
ly did, the power to turn the stones into
bread, he chose to go hungry and follow
the promptings of the spirit, suffering him-
self to be taunted and tempted by satan
while in this condition, thus proving his
ability to resist the Arch Tempter while in
the weakest condition to do so physically.
	Christ proved the truth of his own saying
the instant he spoke it, for had he not lived
by every word his father gave him, how apt
would he have been to fall a victim to the
wiles and snares of his cunning adversary,
but by living up to every word of God in-
vulnerable on every point upon which his
adversary tempted him; thus doubly dem-
onstrating the fact of the correctness of his
answer.
	Though our temptations are of a different
nature to those of Jesus, we still have all
we are able to resist; even by living as the
Saviour said we should live, and as far as
we fail to comply with the laws of God, so
far do we surrender our power to the ad-
versary, and are so much less able to resist
the future attacks.
	Many of us perhaps pass along thought-
lessly and carelessly scoffing at the friendly
warnings given us, thinking that life is
short at best, and why not enjoy it as we
feel we can and may.  Life I own is a com-
paratively brief space, and the alloted life
of man but a brief moment compared to
eternity; still that fleeting moment is time
enough for us to earn for ourselves an eter-
nal glory, or endless perdition and suffering.
	Does it not seem to a reasoning mind,
that it would be far preferable for us to
study a cultivation of the spirit and a de-
sire within us to live as the Lord laid down
during our comparatively short stay in this
world, and thus earn an eternal, endless
glory, where all will be peace, joy, and
happiness, instead of foolishly giving way
to folly, fashion and the allurements and
snares of temptation.
 I don't think it would be entirely out of
place for me to say a little here about
charity. We sometimes find those among
us who may have been guilty of having
succumbed to the tempter, and have been
the greatest sufferers in consequence, how
often do we see the poor wanderer unable
to find sympathy; in the hearts of those
who should be foremost in giving it?
Charity, the Bible says: "Covereth a multi-
tude of sins," and I believe that to be a
gospel truth.
	While it is the duty of one and all to live
as the Saviour says by every word that pro-
ceeds out of the mouth of God; it is also
our duty to assist those whose weeknesses
are greater than our own; and instead of
crushing them deeper into the mire, en-
deavor by a kind charitable feeling full of
sisterly love, try to encourage and bring
them back to where we ourselves are.
Though we fail to accomplish our object en-
tirely, the motive stands recorded in the
great book above to our credit, and we are
in no way the losers therefore let us hope
we may be able to resist the many snares of
the tempter besetting our pathway in life,
and at the same time let us not forget to
cherish and endeavor to save those whose
weekness may carry them astray, giving
them sisterly love and charity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street.  Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
	"OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY."

	On the third day of the New Year we bade
adieu for a short time to our "mountain home,"
and traveled as fast as steam and rail could
convey us towards the great Capitol of the
American notion.
	The first day from home, in passing through
the canons and along the narrow gorges, with
magnificent mountains on either side, we were
wrapt in admiration of the loftiness and grand-
eur of the wonderful old monumental rocks,
which make man, in his reverence for that
which is sublime, pay homage to the great
Creator of the universe.  They stood, towering
up above all the world, like old castles, towers
and battlements, and suggestively recalling to
memory the tales of good King Arthur and the
bearded knights of chivalry who dwelt in their
strongholds, securely fortified on all sides from
their enemies.  Our vivid imagination drew
many a quaint picture of what might have
transpired within these walls had these im-
mense stuctures of rock been petrified castles.
Of the harp and the lyre with which the gay
troubadour soothed the sorrows of the master,
while he made love to some beauteous maiden,
who, though rich in a noble name and a vast
inheritance, paid a loving tribute to genius,
and was captivated by the graces and gallantry
of a poor troubadour.
	Of the brave warriors, too, who made love
in a prouder fashion—who did bold deeds that
they might win the affection of some lady-love
whose heart could only be reached through her
admiration of fearlessness and courage.
	But we must not linger drawing these ideas
of romance upon paper to put before our read-
ers, who are longing to learn of the realities of
life itself in the far-famed city of Washington;
thus, while we might be enthusiastic over the
scenery on the Union Pacific, and even tell
them we saw a herd of antelope numbering
probably seventy beautiful, bright-eyed, grace-
ful little animals, our readers would impa-
tiently exclaim, "Why in the world don't she
tell us something about Washington?"
	Patience, good friends, all in good time—first
let us speak of the "noble Mississippi," which
so many long years ago we crossed in the dead
of winter on the ice, with a little handful of
poor, despised Mormons compelled to flee from
the hands of their assailants into a barren wil-
derness.  Our feelings in recalling these scenes
can only be appreciated by those who endured
the same fatigues, who shared the same perils.
	For the sake of coming sooner to the part of
our article which will be most readily devoured,
we will pass over all the beautiful scenery,
leave out descriptions of tunnels and snow-
sheds, and only tell you that the country on all
sides through the State of Pennsylvania must
in the leafy season of the year surpass all at-
tempts at description; even at this unpleasant

[Column 2]
season it stirred the latent fountains of poetry
in our nature, and called up the sediment
within to harmonize with the beautiful without.
	After dashing along at railroad speed for five
days and a half, we reached Washington Wed-
nesday m., so completely worn out for want of
sleep and rest that the bed was preferable to
luncheon in the fine hotel where our good
friends, the National Suffragists had quartered
during their stay at the Convention.
	Here we were cordially welcomed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, whose name is well
known to our readers, and Miss Susan B. An-
thony, whose name has rung from one end of
the country to the other in connection with
"woman's suffrage."  These good ladies sought
to make us feel perfectly at home; and when
soon after in came Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer,
whom we met face to face for the first time,
our heart went forth in great waves of love to
her for her courageous defense of the women
of Utah here in the Congress of the National
Capitol, and under the broad flag of freedom
to all men.  At some future time we may give
you pen sketches of these illustrious ladies, but
at present we can only glance at them and pass
on.  Mrs. Spofford, the hostess of the house,
also came to enquire kindly after our welfare,
hearing we had come off a long journey.
	The first evening after we arrived in Wash-
ington, a preliminary meeting of the N. W. S.
A. was held at the residence of Belva A. Lock-
wood, Attorney and Solicitor, and plans were
made for the two days' session.  Everything
seemed very strang to us—coming to a large
hotel full of people of fashion, grand old aristo-
crats from the north and the south.  Among
the number are some very fine looking elderly
men, who are members of the House and Sen-
ate.  Vice-President Wheeler is stopping here,
and several other eminent and distinguished
people, both men and women.
	Thursday morning, Jan. 9, in company with
Mrs. Stanton. Miss Anthony and Mrs. Spofford
we drove to Lincoln Hall.  Mrs. Stanton made
the opening speech.  She is very beautiful for
a woman of her years; her hair is magnificent,
and as she arranges it seems almost like a
crown. She was neatly and tastefully attired
in a figured satin dress with a train, which she
deems as necessity on account of her size, and
presided at the Convention of the N. W. S. A.
during the two days, and also evening sessions,
with a great deal of dignity, and never for one
moment lost her self-possession, not even when
a warm discussion took place between Fred.
Douglas, Marshall of the Dis. of Columbia,
and Mr. Pervis of Philadelphia, the last eve-
ning of the Convention.  In that respect she
reminded us very much of our dignified wo-
man leader, Miss E. R. Snow; yet in other re-
spects the two are very unlike.  Mrs. Stanton
is short and very plump; she is extremely
well-preserved, travels about and lectures as if
she were a young woman, (here is another
similarity between the two.)
	Miss Anthony is in every respect Mrs. Stan-
ton's opposite, except that they agree on the
woman question.  She is entirely different
from what one would fancy in reading about
her.  Upon the platform she wore a very rich
black silk dress trimmed with velvet and lace.
In many respects she is a very remarkable wo-
man.  She possesses great firmness and strength
of character, and is a famous talker; her voice
is not as pleasant as Mrs. Stanton's, but her
words are sharp and incisive, and she never
utters a sentence in public that is not calculat-
ed, from its construction, to strike deep at the
foundation of the evil of which she speaks.
Her best lecture delivered here was "Bread
and the Ballot."

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, in a very elegant
garnet colored silk dress, also delivered a very
strong speech—"United States Rights versus
States Rights."
	"Lillie Devereux Blake," correspondent of
New York and other papers, is another very
clever woman who knows how to talk and has
got something to talk about.  She also was ex-
tremely well dressed.
	Helen M. Cook, another lady correspondent
from New York, is evidetly a very talented
lady.  Indeed there were so many pleasing la-
dies of culture and ability it would be impossi-
ble to enumerate them in one short chapter.
Indeed, we have heard and seen so many peo-
ple and so much which deserves attention we
have a good stock in trade at the present date
of that sort of material, which is a powerful
element in newspaper articles.  Suffice it to
say we met ladies from nearly all parts of the
States, all very pleasant people, generous and
kindly in feeling, almost entirely without pre-
judice towards our people, because of the broad
platform on which they stand before the world.
They are noble women, with lofty aspirations
and intelligent ideas.  They have already ac-
complished a great deal in educating women
in the practical lessons of life.  One woman
more we must mention, and then we will
leave this chapter, but anon, kind friends, you
shall hear more about suffrage women.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer must not be for-
gotten in our little paper, nor in Mormon his-
tory when it is written.  She possesses great
executive ability, has very good voice, is
gifted with fine expression, uses the choicest
words, and sums everything up in the most
concise and comprehensive manner.  She is
the woman who is behind the curtain doing
the work of a dozen women, all for the benefit
of her sex—and her heart is in it; everybody
who hears her speak knows she speaks from
the soul, and she has as fine talents as one
could ask for to make a mark in the world—to
win fame.  But she is slowly plodding in the
work of reform in this great city, and working
her way along against the woman of fashion,
the woman who don't want to vote, who's got
all the rights she wants; and by and by she's
going to win.  So much for the pioneer work-
ers in Woman's Suffrage.
	<E. B. Wells>


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A Most Happy Union. - Sister Eliza R.
Snow is one whom all delight to honor; and by
her uniform life of uncompromising integrity,
her labors of love and duty, she has earned
all the regard that is continually offered to her
On Jan 2lst she attained the age of 75 years,
and her sisters, with Mrs. Margaret P. Young
at their head, inaugurated a surprise party in
her honor. The large parlor of the Lion House
with its adjoining suite of rooms were thrown
open for the reception of the visitors, and every
part was filled by the large assembly. At 7
o’clock supper was announced, when the com-
pany adjourned to the dining room, where an
elegant table was spread with every luxury
needed for the reception and enjoyment of the
guests.
	Among the company were President John
Tayior and his wife, President Joseph Young
Presidents Franklin D. Richards and Angus
M. Cannon and wives. After returning to the
drawing room, addresses were offered by the
above named gentleman and several others;
several ladies also oflered addresses; music and
singing intervened, and some appropriate toasts
were given. Sister Snow then arose to express
her rich appreciation of all that had been


done and said in her honor; her feelings well-
nigh overcame her, but with that noble self-
command for which she is proverbial she soon
regained her wanted equanimity, and ex-
pressed herself most feelingly and with every
appreciation.  The company did not separate
till a late hour, each one  feeling it was indeed
"the communion of Saints."  All was love
and peace and harmony throughout the entire
evening - a time long to be remembered, or,
rather, never to ne forgotten.  God bless Sister
Snow, and may her future time be her pastime
a million times magnified.	H.T.K.
	THE LATEST local attraction of a dramatic
and musical character, and unique novelty in
the way of home productions, is the musical
burletta "THE LOVES OF WOLFENSTEIN,"
written by Messrs. O.F. and H.G. Whitney,
two young gentlemen of this city.  The piece
was composed especially for, and adapted to
the ability of the children of the 18th Ward
Sunday School, by whom it has been performed
twice with great success in the Social Hall, to
large and appreciative audiences.  The plot is
quite interesting, the language well chosen,
the dialogie being sprightly, witty, and bris-
tling with puns and local hits.  The music for
most part was selected from the leading operas
of the day; with this exception the production
is entirely original.  The corps of petite per-
formers in their portrayal of the various char-
acters transcended all expectation, and dis-
played a precocity of talent seldom found in
children of such tender years!  Mr. O. F.
Whitney  as conductor, and they and all
connected with the performance have good
reason to feel gratified at the decided success
attending their initial effort.
	ON THE 26th of Jan. the Seventeenth Ward
Sunday School held a Quarterly Review.  An
examination of the different classes was given,
to which great credit is due both on the part of
the teachers and scholars.  These, intermin-
gled with songs, readings and recitations, made
the afternon's performance very interesting to
the audience, which was not few in number;
and displayed talent and study on the part of
the performers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Union Salt Lake Co, Dec. 31st 1878.
of scarlet fever and sore throat, Laura Luretta
daughter of Marion H. and Lucy Ann Brady
aged six months and eight days.
	We deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family.


<i& was="" i.="" flpntjoduced.jnfo.her="" ‘jrkjrogh="" ;="" very="" youqg="" ,at="" the="" ilm,="" she'was="" amopg="" first="" tm.jearp.tbe="" difierpptj.mehcuils="" of;.prppar-="" i,="" ring="" cottpn,="" and="" iwof="" jt="" ipg,="" it="" up.,,shedpuhij="" also="" i="" el="" am.itar="" -fltory-="" cqpcerping="" thefir'st="" a="" ppear-="" uance)="" of="" ihprqef-made="" straw="" hata="" bonnets="" in="" ithat="" stat;auntil="" fho="" last="" "tw.q-="" year.of="" her="" iife:she="" was.'abj.ej="" between,="" spells="" (sickness,="" to="" l="">			  IN MEMORIAM.

	The following is presented as a tribute of re-
spect to the memory of the late Rhoda Rich-
ards, well known among a large circle of friends
as "Aunt Rhoda."
	She was born August 8th, 1784, in Hopkin-
ton, Middlesex Co., Massachusetts: was the
daughter of Joseph and Rhoda Howe Rich-
ards, and sister to the late President Willard
and Elders Phineas and Levi Richards.  The
eldest but one of eleven children, she was also
the last but one (her brother William, who,
according to late accounts, resides in Rich-
mond, Mass.), of the family to depart from this 
life.
 She believed the Gospel, as revealed to Jo-
seph Smith and presented to her by her cous-
ins Joseph and Brigham Young.  She waited
a year for her sister Nancy, who also believed,
to obtain the consent of her husband, that
they might both join the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at the same time.
In less than an hour after her brother-in-law
first expressed his willingness for his wife to
become a "Mormon," the two sisters were
baptized by their brother Phineas on the 2d
day of June, 1838.
	During her latter years, Aunt Rhoda took
much pleasure in entertaing those about her
with pleasing stories of her early life.  Al-
though a great sufferer much of her time, she
had also been an ambitious worker.  She de-
lighted in telling how her mother taught her-
self and her sister to work; how they knit,
spun, wove, kept house and did all kinds of
work necessary for girls or women to do.  She
could recollect when the raising of cotton
and the manufacturing of cotton goods was
first introduced into her native State.  Though
very young at the time, she was among the
first to learn the different, methods of prepar-
ing cotton and working it up.  She could also
tell a similar story concerning the first appear-
ance of home made straw hats and bonnets in
that State.  Until the last two years of her
life she was able between spells of sickness, to
perform a considerable amount of manual la-
bor, which she not only preferred to do, but
prided herself in doing.  Prominent among her
life labors is a goodly amount of work done for
dead relatives and friends.
	New Year's day was one of especial interest
to her.  On that day, when a young woman,
she followed her first and only love to the
grave. They were soon to have been married,
when her affiaced sickened and died.  True to
his memory, for many long years she never
once joined with friends in joyful congratula-
tions on the first day of the year.  It was a
singular incident that last New-year's morn-
ing she remarked it was the first "Happy New
Year" she had known for sixty-six years.  She
said the snow looked exactly as it did the day
"Mr. Damon" was buried.  She also observed
that day that she thought her last days had
commenced, for in her blessings she had been
promised that her last days should be her best
days.
	On the afternoon of Sunday, Jan. 5th, she
requested the presence of the family to witness
her walking unaided across the room, a thing
she had not been known to do for over a year
until then.  On Monday, the 6th, she wrote an
encouraging letter to an afflicted friend in
Dixie. This was the last work she performed
on earth.  That evening she complained of
being hoarse, and said she had taken cold.
From that time she gradually sank, until Fri-
day, Jan. 17th, about half past one p.m., when
she gently expired without a groan or struggle.
She died at the residence of her nephew, Levi
W. Richards, in the 20th Ward of this city,
where she had lived for some years.  Her fu-
neral, which held at the Ward meeting house,
was largely attended, and appropriate and in-
teresting remarks were made by President's
Joseph Young and Angus M. Cannon, Elder
Lorenzo D. Young and Bishop John Sharp.
Respected and beloved, she lived and died a
true Saint.
	Like the last brightening of autumn flowers,
	Before they feel the frost king's blighting breath
	Fresh radiance crowned this aged friend of ours,
	Ere she was folded in the arms of death.


IN our last issue was published an article
entitled "The Mormon Ques[---]n Once More,"
and no credit wa given to [---] author.  The
piece was written by Ms. Mathilda J. Gage,
editor of the Syracuse "National Citizen and


Ballot-Box." Mrs. Gage is a lady of deep
thought and feeling, and we fully appreciate
and thank her for defending us so nobly with
her mighty weapon, the pen, for in her hands
it is indeed mighty, and may she live to see
the great good it will yet accomplish.


<l, with;="" any="" pi="" the="" .high="" rhoraf.chrlstiqp="" jilates-="" men="" who,="" pptagppizo="" 'mpnap.n.="" ,ut="" .christian="" statesmen="" lypuld="" unqijutpdly="" weaken,="" ;.="" jmtj="" .="" ;="" .<="" mrs..="" sarah="" spencer="" puts="" casoln.a’jjut-”'="" shell="" when'shesays'.that;thq="" difference="" ;j="">	THE MORMON FEMALE.

	Quite interesting it was to see two Mor-
wives standing in dangerous proximity to
our most respectable President Hayes plead-
ing for polygamy.  this little dramatic
scene occured in the White House last
week.  And by the same token the Mormon
wives took the lead in their argument, and
as Orson Pratt floored Hot-scotch Newman
in Utah, they bossed the President in the
debate argumentative at the national capi-
tal.  Their first direct and incisive ques-
tion was, "What right has the General
Government to ignore territorial laws and
tear them away from their husbands, and
	TO BASTARDIZE THEIR CHILDREN
and deprive them of all right and inherit-
ance?" 
	It has no right to do so.  In the first
place, and most emphatically, the Constitu-
tion forbids the passage of ex post facto
laws, and so any law interfering with Mor-
mon marriages previous to its passage
would be utterly and absolutely unconsti-
tutional.
	Their next point was that these Mormon
wives were happy, wanted to live with
their husbands, religiously believed they
were right in so doing, and objected not to
other women having a share to husband's
names and property.  Who then would be
benefited by tearing them away?  How
would morality be served by doing so?
Would not only distress, poverty, demoral-
ization result? There was no good answer
to this given.  Nor can any very good an-
swer be given.
	Congress should see to it that when they
do legislate on this Utah question, they
should do it like statesmen, and not like
fanatics.  There are many and important
interests to be considered, and there are
not a few of the best observers who think
that the best thing that can be done in the
matter is not to legislate on it at all. 
	The polygamy of Utah is doing no harm
to the United States.  The territory as far
as the Mormons are concerned, is a type of
morality, and we should be glad to see
their representative delegate, Cannon, a
gentleman above reproach, compared as
far as genuine gentlemanliness and purity
and integrity of character is concerned,
with any of the high moral christian states-
men who antagonize the Mormons.  But
the christian statesmen would undoubtedly
weaken.
	Mrs. Sarah Spencer puts the case in a nut-
shell when she says that the difference be-
tween the Mormons and the christian
statesmen is that the Mormons marry their
mistresses, the congressmen don't.—Capi-
tal.


ENGLISH PICKLE FOR TONGUE. - For two
tongues make a brine of two ounces of salt-
peter, half pound brown sugar, one pint of
barrel salt, one teacupful of molasses, water
enough to cover them.  Let them stand in
a crock, well kept under the brine, for ten
days.  When ready to use boil two or three
hours, skin and eat cold.  This brine can
be used as long as it keeps sweet, and is
good to keep ham or dried beef in.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOMETHING ABOUT LEARNED
			WOMEN.

	The question has been asked, "Was there
ever a time when there were no learned
women?"  To this query we reply, No!
never since the creation of Eve, our first
mother, down to the present, when the
cause of women's social and political rights
has become a distinct national question; we
admit there has been an unusual intellec-
tual activity for the last twenty years, both
in Europe and America, and that there has
been advancement and progress in this re-
spect within the last decade, but we are apt
to felicitate ourselves, and perhaps are too
indiscriminate on the progress achieved in
female education.
	There never was a time, let me repeat,
when there was not highly educated women,
according to the standard of their age.
Isis and Minerva show the value set upon
feminine intellect by the ancients.  Recall
the noble tribute of Pluto to the genius of
women in his Banquet; also the long line of
learned and accomplished English women,
from Lady Jane Grey to Elizabeth Barrett.
Among that wonderful people, the Spanish
Arabs, there were women who were public
lecturers, secretaries of kings.  While
Christian Europe was sunk in darkness,
Ayesha, daughter of Ahmed ben Mahom-
med ben Kadin of Cordova, was considered
the most learned woman of her age (the
Tenth century); she excelled in mathemat-
ics, medicine, poetry, and other sciences.
The Moorish historian almost deifies this 
then wonderful woman.  There were female
professors of the classics, and of rhetoric at
Salomanca and Aleula under Ferdinand
and Isabella.  The intellectual influence of
Lucrezia Borgia is classed by Roscoe with
that of his hero, Leo X. Vittoria Culonna
and Veronica Gambava ranked as the
equals and friends of Bembo and Michael
Angelo; Tisaboschi declared the Rimatrice,
or female poets of the 15th century, not in-
ferior in number or merit to the Rimatori,
or male poets.  Benedict XIV bestowed on
Maria Aynezi, a celebrated mathematician,
the place of Apostolic professor in the Uni-
versity of Bologna in 1758.  Pope Clement
XIV wrote, in 1763, to a lady who had sent
him her translation of Locke, expressing
his satisfaction that the succession of learned
women was still maintained in Italy.  There
is a work of Paul de Ribero, entitled "The
Immortal Triumphs and Heroic Enterprises
of 845 Women."  There were sold at Pa-
dua in 1847, from the library of Count Leo-
pold Terri, 30,000 volumes solely the works
of female authors.  Donna Maria, of Portu-
gal, who married Prince Alexander, grand-
son of Charles V, could talk in both Latin
and Greek; she was said to be well versed
in philosophy, mathematics and theology.
Madaine Roland was acknowledged a far
better Statesman than her husband.  One
of the most important treaties of modern
Europe, the peace of Cambray in 1529, was
negotiated by two women, Margaret, the
aunt of Charles V, and Louisa, the mother
of Francis 1.
	These are merely a few specimens given
out of thousands.  There always have been
strong-minded, energetic, brilliant women,
but in order to succeed there must be an
incentive to action, and all acquired facul-
ties are to be brought to bear upon some
definite end.  Indolent young men have
been galvanized into industry when the
final pressure on an immediate aim was
supplied.  A few, both male and female,
have so strong a propensity for study that
they pursue it by themselves, though with-
out any ulterior aim.  But for most of those
of average energy there must be an object for
the employment of their time.  The end
and aim in the schooling of our girls has been
to fit them to be wives and mothers. This
must never be lost sight of.  But our boys
have the probable destiny of becoming fa-
thers and supervisors of the intellectual
training of their children.  Our boys have
this sacred responsibility to arouse them,
and all the incentives of private and public
duties.	
	What is it that so often causes failure on
the part of girls, when it has been proven
that at school the girls showed more apti-
tude, and averaged an equality of talent.
Let me give the answer as it has come up
from thousands of female hearts: "We have
nothing to do."  Boys go to college, study
professions, learn trades, etc., etc.  They
have all before them, while most of the
girls feel that they have nothing worthy
to inspire them, and the failure arises from
want of stimulus.  An immortal soul needs
for its sustenance something more than vis
iting, novel reading, crocheting, making
pretty little things to adorn person or par-
lor.  This is not sufficient - neither is that
other incentive so often held forth to young
women, viz., "To be the mother of some
great man like a Washington or a Mar-
shall."  This has been the burden of ad-
dress at school examinations by the learned
(or otherwise) gentlemen present.  This
they seemed to think was sufficient to in-
spire heart and mind forever!  To be the
mother of a sublime specimen of male hu-
manity!  Some critic, after speaking very
cordially of Mrs. Mill's able article "The
Enfranchisement of Women," in the West-
minster Review, said that it was to be
hoped, however, the mother of J. S. Mill
would always regard it as her chief honor
to have reared her distinguished son.  But
why is it not as much honor to be a useful
woman as to be a useful man?  Must this
be the great ultimatum of woman's life
here - to be spoken of after a generation or
two, or more, as the mother of the learned,
renowned, famous James, Charles, or John,
So and so?  We believe most women pre-
fer to take the honor as they go along; not
that any woman would object to being the 
mother of a good son or daughter--we con-
sider it an honor to have either.  The fa-
ther may be as important in the rearing of
the child as the mother, yet it is not con-
sidered the whole duty of man to be a good
father.  Many men who have been good
fathers have also attended to arduous duties,
were, in fact, many of them, guardians of
American liberty.  And has woman only
one-half a mission?  Is not each individual,
male or female, an unit before God?  Has
woman equally with man an individual
body to be protected, and an individual soul
to save?  Must she not see, feel, know,
speak, think, act for herself and not through
another?  Is not the same grand universe,
with all its wonders and mystery, spread
out before her for study and research?  Are
not the same deep thirstings for knowledge
within her soul?  Has she not the same
solemn and profound problems to solve that
man has?  And can she not attain to as
great a scientific or literary eminence as
her brother man?  Is she not a mental,
moral, spiritual being, and as such, account-
able to her Creator, who has placed her
here by the side of man under the same
obligations to develop and unfold her God-
given powers?  It is arrogant and audacious
presumption for man to attempt to decide
the sphere of woman, especially in an age
that can number its thousands of noble, in-
tellectual, earnest workers for the right,
each one of which has mind enough to set
up half a dozen like many who disparage
woman's capacity.
	Woman asks the same intellectual and
political advantages that are granted to
man. All women have the natural right to
labor, suffer and endure - no one attempts
to deny this: but she asks the same encour-
agement to give energy to industrial enter-
prise.  Says an American writer:  "The
dignity of labor should be sustained.  The
franchise of a freeman should be granted
to the humblest laborer who has not for-
feited his right by crime.  In the responsi-
bilities of a freeman he will find the strong-
est motives to exertion.  Besides, so far as
government can by its action affect his con-
fidence of a just remuneration for his toil,
he feels that a remedy is put in his hands
by the ballot box."  Some of our law mak-
ers have asserted that the right of suffrage
was worth fifty cents a day in its effect
upon the wages of the male laborers in this
country. The great educator of American
men is the ballot box with its accompani-
ments, and this means the whole world of
public life, public measures, public interests
and public offices.
	There are brave, noble, true-hearted men
who have and ever will use their voice, in-
fluence and vote for any measure necessary
to give woman her true position, to enable
and secure her from being a prey to those
who have no law in their habits and propen-
sities. Talleyrand said, "To see one-half
of the human race excluded by the other
half from all participation in government is
a political phenomenon, which on abstract
principles it is impossible to explain."  "The
principle of an aristocracy is admitted,"
says Toquerville, "the moment we reject
an absolutely universal suffrage." The
protest of women is not against a special
abuse, but against a whole system of injus-
tice." "Once recognize the political equality
of the sexes," says one, "and all the ques-
tions of legal, social, educational and pro-
fessional equality will soon settle them-
selves."
							L. M. H.


WOMEN'S MASS MEETING

ST. GEORGE AND WASHINGTON.

 Held in the Tabernacle at St. George,
Dec. 5th, 1878.  Meeting called to order by
Anna L. Ivins, and on her motion Mrs.
Artemisia Snow was chosen President, and 
Eliza Smith Calkins and Elizabeth P. Bent-
ley were chosen Secretaries.
	After singing, prayer was offered by E.
S. Calkins.  Mrs. A. Snow then stated the 
object of the meeting, and the fact of the
Anti-polygamy movement and the injuries
it might bring upon the people.  On motion
of Mrs. Snow Harriet H. Romney, Mary G.
Whitehead and Artemisia S. Segmiller
were appointed a committee to draft reso-
lutions protesting against this movement.
	Some very intresting addresses were
made by A. Snow, D. Everitt and M.
Miles.  These ladies each in her own way
expressed herself very strongly against the 
Anti-polygamy movement, and showed
that those who were opposing us werre not
only trying to ruin a people but were work-
ing for their own distruction.  They relat-
ed an account of their own lives in po-
lygamy, and gave a very excellent account
of their church history.
Among the speakers were Mrs. Gold,
Emily Spencer, Brewet Johnson, Margaret
Matties, Mary Jane Sanders, Mrs. Kemp,
Mary Wells, Annie Wells, Annie Wood-
bury, Mrs. Caul, E. S. Calkin, F. A. Church,
E. Lunt, H. J. Perkins, Snell Snow, E.
Morse Mrs. Liston and E. Bleake,.


[Column 1]
	Committee on resolutions then returned,
bringing in tne, following preamble and
resolutions, which were read and adopted.
	Whereas, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
grossly misrepresented by our Christian
sisters dwelling in our midst, in regard to
our rights (to worship God according to the
dictates of our own conscience)—the right
which relates to the most holy relations of
wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
declare most solemnly and emphatically
our true sentiments, and invite a complete
and impartial investigation of our cause.
	1st. Resolved, That we, the women of
St. George, Santa Clara and Washington,
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, do heartily endorse the
sentiments of our sisters in Salt Lake City,
and with them claim the privilege of wor-
shipping God according to the dictates of 
our own conscience; and God being our
helper, we will sustain our husbands, Fa-
thers and sons in carrying out every princi-
ple of our holy religion in righteousness.
	2d. Resolved, That we, as sisters and
true women, will sustain our husbands in
every righteous principle that tends to in-
crease their families, and do all in our power
to bring about the redemption of the human
family. That we solemnly avow our full
faith in the doctrine of Celestial Marriage,
established by the divine command of Him
who is the same yesterday, to-day, and for-
er, and knowing the glory, strength and
power that will rest upon us as a people,
who practice it in righteousness, we do en-
dorse it as one of the most important prin-
ciples in our holy religion, and claim the
right to put it in practice.
	3d. Resolved, That we will endeavor to
keep the commandments of God and leave
the result with Him, and protest against
the enactment of any laws to deprive us of
our religious freedom. That we will sus-
tain and practice the doctrine of plual mar-
riage as revealed by God, our Heavenly
Father, to the Latter-day Saints, and as
practiced anciently by His own people.
	4th. Resolved, That we, the sisters in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, do feel to
thank the ladies who dwell in the Territory
of Utah who have so kindly interested
themselves in the behalf of the "poor Mor-
mon women;" we would suggest that their
interest and kind feelings be turned on
their own poor degraded women, those of
their own land who need their help and
interest, as we, by the help of God, can
take care of ourselves, and feel good in sus-
taining our husbands, fathers and sons in
putting in practice the laws or God.
	5th. Resolved, that we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts of those noble ladies of the
National Suffrage Association, who, without
any sympathy for us in our religious views,
and opposed to plural marriage, yet bravely
defended our cause of woman's rights in
Utah in the halls of Congress. For this we
feel to tender them our hearty thanks.
	6th. Resolved, That everything our sis-
ters in Salt Lake City may do in memorial-
izing Congress in our behalf we fully en-
dorse, and solemnly protest against any-
thing that may be done for the injury of
our cause or people.
	Dismissed by prayer.
				E. S. CALKIN, Sec'y.

			BEAVER CITY.

	The ladies of this city held a Mass Meet-
ing, Dec. 13, 1878, at the meeting house for
the purpose of expressing their views re-
ligiously and politically. There was a

[Column 2]
good representation. Meeting was called
to order by Mrs. Ruth Tyler. On motion
of Mrs. Eliza Hawkins, Mrs. Ruth Tyler
was called to the chair. Mrs. M. E. Ash-
worth and Mrs. M. J. Shipp, secretaries.
The chair stated the object of the meeting,
and made a very able speech, showing that
we, as Latter-day Saints, are loyal to the
Constitution of our country, and Congress
has no right to interfere; saying, let us
stand up and assert our rights, acknowledg-
ing before the world our faith in the princi-
ple sought to be suppressed. Each of the.
following ladies made appropriate speeches
suited to the occasion: Mrs. L. B. Pratt,
Mrs. M. Vaughan, Mrs. D. F. Cox, Mrs.
Caroline Crosby, Mrs. M. A. Tanner, Mrs. S.
Robinson, Mrs. M. A. Grimshaw, Mrs. E.
Hawkins, Mrs. L. Howd, Mrs. E. Hilden,
Mrs. Jane Gibbs. The preamble and reso-
lutions were read by Secretary Mrs. M. E.
Ashworth, and moved and seconded that
We, the ladies of Beaver City, in mass
meeting assembled, adopt and coincide with
the resolution of our sisters of Salt Lake
City in their mass meeting of Nov. 16, 1878.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler made a few closing re-
marks. Choir sang. Benediction by Mrs.
L. Skinner.
		MRS. H. E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.
		MRS. M. J. SHIPP, Ass't Sec'y.

				LEHI.

	The Mass Meeting of the ladies of Lehi,
held Dec. 26, 1878, proves that although
they may be among the last they are not
the least, or any the less pointed in their
expressions than their sisters in other
places. There was a good attendance of
ladies, and at 10:30 a. m. meeting com-
menced by electing Mrs. Sarah Coleman
Evans as President, and Mrs. Rebecca
Standing Secretary. Choir sang. Prayer
by Mrs. Morgan Davis. Singing.
	The president. in an appropriate and
pointed speech, stated the object of the
meeting, and gave incidents in her early
life and experience in polygamy, after
which the following committee on resolu-
tions were appointed: Mary A. Davis,
Louisa M. Naile, Elizabeth Hawkins and
Ann Ball. While the committee were out
speeches were made by Martha P. Thomas,
Barbara A. Evans, Rebecca Standing, Mor-
gan Anderson, Mary Chillton, S. M. Naile,
Rebecca Evans, Melissa Willes, and many
others. The ladies spoke in a plain and
pointed manner, fully setting forth their
views, feelings and position on the princi-
ple under discussion, and showed that the
ladles were abundantly able to express
themselves and take their own part. The
position of wives and mothers in the moun-
tains was contrasted with the same in other
lands, and the sympathetic ladies of Salt
Lake City were fully advised to expend
their philanthropy where it is most needed.
	The committee having returned, they re-
ported the resolutions that had been pre-
viously adopted by the sisters of Salt Lake
City as the sentiments of this meeting.
The resolutions were then read by the Sec-
retary, commented upon by some speakers,
then unanimously adopted. Closing re-
marks by Martha J. Thomas. Singing.
Prayer by Rebecca Standing.
			SARAH C. COLEMAN, Pres't,
			REBECCA STANDING, Sec'y.

			CHARLESTON.

	A Mass Meeting of the ladies of Charles-
ton was held in the Meeting House Jan. 6.

[Column 3]
1878. Mrs. Mary Daybell called the meet-
ing to order, and moved that Mrs. Emma
Brown preside; the motion was carried
and Mrs. Emma Trotman was chosen Sec-
retary. After singing and prayer Pres. E.
Brown explained the object of the meeting,
and stated that as the Gentile ladies of Salt
Lake City had got up a petition to abolish
polygamy, we, as sisters believing in plural
marriage, wish to oppose them. Many of
the sisters expressed their feelings, and all
felt to uphold and sustain the principle of
plural marriage. The preamble and reso-
lutions passed by the ladies at the Theatre
on Nov. 16th were read and unanimously
adopted.
			EMMA TROTMAN, Sec'y.

	Report of a Mass Meeting held at Manti,
Jan. 6th, to protest against the Anti-polyga-
my petition.
	Meeting called to order at 2 o'clock p.
m. In the stand were the Presidency of
the Relief Society, the Sisters Maiben, and
many of the leading sisters of Manti. On
motion of Mrs. Carto, Mrs R. Wareham was
unanimously sustained as Chairman of the
meeting, and Mrs. A. L. Cox as Secretary.
Singing by the choir, and opening prayer
by Mrs. Christoffersen. The Chairman
then stated the object of the meeting, and 
reviewed the history of the Church and
the causes that had led to the persecutions
which had followed us through all our
wanderings.
	Quite a number of impromptu speeches
were made, and all the speakers were unani-
mous in protesting against the unrighteous
crusade which is being forced upon us; at
the same time a spirit of Christian forbear-
ance characterized the meeting, and the
general desire seemed to be to leave our 
traducers in the hands of One who has said,
"Vengeance is mine."
	An excellent address to the young ladies
was read by Miss Marion Grier, exhorting
them to be faithful to the principles for
which their mothers and suffered so much.
	Several resolutions embodying the senti-
ments of the assembly were unanimously
adopted, also the action and resolutions of
the ladies of Salt Lake City were heartily
endorsed and sustained. The meeting
closed with singing by the choir. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Wareham.
					A. L. COX, Sec'y.

			CEDAR CITY.

	Meeting was called to order by Mrs. Sarah
Uric, and after singing and prayer Mrs.
Ellen Lunt was appointed by unanimous
vote to preside over the meeting, and Mrs.
Sarah Chatterly as Secretary. Mrs. Ellen
Lunt then stated the object of the meeting,
viz., to defend our views and religious con-
victions, and to protest against the Anti-
polygamy movement and petition. A com-
mittee of five ladies was appointed to draft
resolutions, and while they were absent
Mrs. Lunt made some very interesting re-
marks. The committee returned the fol-
lowing report:
	Resolved, That we, the women of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
of Cedar City, in mass meeting assembled,
fully endorse the preamble and resolutions
passed by the women of the Latter-day
Saints in mass meeting assembled in Salt
Lake City, Nov. 16, 1878.
	The above named preamble and resolu-
tions were then read by Mrs. Sarah Chat-
terly, and adopted. Sarah Uric, Mary Ann
Lunt, Annabella Haight, Jane Spiking,


Eliza Ann Haight, Keturah McFarlane,
Mary Cosslett, Mary Ann Unthank, Ann
Alldredge, Henrietta Jones, Elsie Nielson
and Sarah Cox followed with very appro-
priate and spirited remaks, all expressing
their sentiments concerning plural mar-
riage, &c. A very good feeling prevailed,
and after singing the meeting was dis-
missed by Mrs. Sarah Uric.
			SARAH CHATTERLY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


190		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

GOD'S GOODNESS AND POWER.

	"The works of God are great, sought out
of all them that have pleasure therein."
	His works are wonderful and glorious,
and more than repay our closest observance.
It is difficult to say which most predomi-
nates therein, His goodness or His power.
While the telescope supplies increasing
proofs of their immeasurable vastness and
extent, the microscope equally reveals signs
of their infinite minuteness and perfection.
But it is not these, either their extent or
completeness, that sets the crown upon the
whole, but it is their individual distinctive-
ness. So that, though countless in compute
and perfect in finish, there is an individu-
ality extending equally from the highest
to the lowest, which bespeaks their Cre-
ator's boundless intelligence and wisdom.
Not only does He tell the number of the
stars and call them by their names, but the
number of existences in each. The deni-
zens of the air, the tenants of the waters,
the inhabitants of the earth, are each thus
identified by Him—even one of the hum-
blest is declared not to fall to the ground
without His cognizance. But not merely
each species is recognized, but the invidu[--]
number of each family, and to such [---]
own particular character is given [---] its
the far-famed Temple was erect [---] When
Zion in the days of King [---]ed on Mount
stone, pillar, cornice a[---] Solomon, every
previously square [---]nd architrave were
prepared all [---] polished, fitted and
skill having [---] a peculiar application of
[---] been minutely and exactly
adjusted; so that on the going up of the
edifice no sound of axe or hammer was to
be heard, each part, on being introduced to
its position, fitting exactly its appointed
place. The construction of that consecrated
Temple was a subordinate type of the plan
and method of the Divine Architect of the
universe. Secretly, silently His works ap-
pear, and on appearing each portion, from
the greatest to the least, finds and fills its
exact position. This accounts for the won-
drous harmony of nature—planets, suns
and systems—and the beauteous complete-
ness and perfection of the whole.
	The Bible is God's written book, written
by human instrumentality. The starry
heavens is His printed book, like the an-
cient tablets given to Moses, by His own
fingers. And why set up there but that all
mankind should read? Astronomy is a
science which arises from man's need of
religion; other sciences spring out of wants
bounded by this life, and so astronomy was
the religion of the world's youth. It took
its rise in the East. Serene and beautiful
are the nights in Persia, and many wise
ones in earlier days, full of deep thought,
went out into the fields like Isaac to medi-
tate at eventide. Those skies in their
calm depths mirroring that which is bound-
less in space and illimitable in time, with a
silence as profound as death and a motion
gliding on forever. What a symbol of
eternity, of immortality, and of life!
	God has so made us that the very act of
looking up produces in us perceptions of

[Column 2]

the sublime. No wonder, therefore, that
the ancient Magii were regarded as the
High Priests of nautre. No wonder that
in the days of Daniel, who was made chief
of the Chaldeans, that is, the first of the
magicians, that the haughty Nebuchadnez-
zar bowed before him with incense and
oblation. The chief business of the Chal-
dean Magi was the study of the heavenly
planets, constantly associated with the stars
the system of light, conceiving them to be
the home of the Deity, as if their eternal
[-]estiny seemed to sit enthroned there; and
so by a star the magicians, the first of the
Gentiles, were in subsequent ages led to
Christ.
	Salt Lake City.	L. M. H.


[Column 1]
NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	-	35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	-	35 Cents each

A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Residence—Ephriam, Sanpete County.

	Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
									Proprietors.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women; and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C E. DYE

	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Restail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
A[---] FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,

55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every varity,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't,
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,

Manufacturers and Dealers in

BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.

TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture. and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to

WM. H. ROWE,
		SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE-MATTRESSES,
FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEB. 15, 1879		No. 18.


[For the EXPONENT.
IN THE SHADOWS.

Alone I sit, and everywhere
	The shadows darkly lay;
Companions of the heart's sad mood,
	O send them not away.

The sun may shine to-morrow morn,
	And birds sing from each tree;
And to my soul there may be born.
	A brighter light for me.

<soat .bace="" )="" islfvhctate3="" thyeunshlae="" ad="" ihoiyo="" --="" u="" o.fl="" othbsuritoerbhbtbofiriirhtv="" ‘i="" &="" the="" richest="" music="" that="" we="" hear'"="" u.="" “‘ftiiwwmtis'-="" ,-;yiw="" lu="" 4nuoa-inaffdfl6vwwitrmiuvt’earj="" w="" i="" oil="" i.="" oi="" ik="" oufcmtfc&r;'rfmcrtjvsi&ul;<ma an="" iio="" bobvx.="" .a.ia'milbifajtiiioiocqisit,l="" bl9d="" ,tnoi="" oiodi="" i.i="" bj.'!0,tphi®9afi.“#yfui,‘i="" oi="" biik-jd="" biwoii="" oiolfcffrad="" eton="" forwdafifmil&tsoorf)="" 51b="" <j="" ebant="" a="" because="" i="" adjlnxjoopvien"‘i="" -ot="" jaoj="" thuflorjtiajhgwlldornesa-,="" jj,="" viiflbfev..l="" lpnijot:ftojorrpiubre6’ftwis="" otlir="" oiiimi?ha5??9tfcda="" .="" ;="" s="" tr.orlt="" "="">It yet to-night my heart is loth
	The light of day to wear;
God gives the sun and darkness both
	That earth may bloom and bear.

It takes the sunshine and the shower
	To bring the rose to light;
And did the storm-cloud never lower,
	The sun were not so bright.

The richest music that we hear,
	Is always sadly sweet;
And sorrows bring us very near
	Our Father's mercy seat.

He gave the shadows and the light,
	For me the shadows fall;
And as I sit along to-night,
	I love them, one and all.

Nor do I long for sunshine blest
	Because I am in gloom;
The flower in the wilderness,
	That struggles up to bloom,

Lon[-]s not the more for heaven's rays
	Than I for joy and love.
Yet left it is, to spend its days
	With shadows all above.

And grows so frail amid the shade,
	Should sunbeams warm it o'er
'Twould sink from sight, as if afraid,
	And bless the earth no more.

And there are human flowers that bloom
	In life's dark, dreary way
Alone, they warm the very gloom,
	While on the earth they stay,

4th Ward, S. L. City.	MARY WRAY.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

CONTINUED.

	The persecutions brought upon our peo-
ple in Nauvoo and other places adjacent, by
the wicked misrepresentations of such men
as Dr. Bennett, William and Wilson Law,
and others who had been members of our
Church, increased rapidly. Every now and
then Joseph Smith was arraigned before
the magistrates on some pretext or other,
and the Saints were threatened with mobs,
and they felt there was no security for them
because of their betrayal by designing and
treacherous men.
	In January, 1844, my youngest daughter
was born. She was the first child born heir
to the Holy Priesthood and in the New and
Everlasting Covenant in this dispensation.
I felt she was doubly a child of promise,
not only through the priesthood, but through
Joseph's promise to me when I gave him
my eldest daughter to wife. He prophe-
sied to me that I should have another
daughter, who would be a strength and sup-
port to me to soothe my declining years;
and in this daughter have these words been
verified. My health was very poor, but I
remained strong in the faith of the Gospel,
and full of courage to persevere in the lat-
ter-day work. My two youngest children
were frail little tender blossoms and re-
quired the most constant care.

[Column 2]
	During the ensuing summer a fearful and
continuous storm of persecution raged, un-
til it led to the massacre of Joseph and Hy-
rum Smith: and John Taylor, who, although
pierced with bullets until his life scarce
hung by a single thread, afterwards recov-
ered. After this horrible tragedy, the peo-
ple sorrowed and mourned for their Patri-
arch and Prophet. Indeed, the terrible
grief and consternation which were the re-
sult of the untimely death of these noble
men was beyond description.
	The Gentiles, our opposers, thought they
had destroyed our religion, overthrown our
cause, and destroyed the influence of our
people, and actually had accomplished all
that was necessary to do away with Mor-
monism.
	But God's work cannot be thus ignored;
another prophet, Brigham Young, was
raised up to succeed Joseph, and the work
rolled on. We were not allowed, however,
to rest in peace; those who had apostatized
from us and were filled with a spirit of re-
bellion against the work sought by all their
power and influence to stir up the authori-
ties of government in the State of Illinois,
and to drive us from the bounds of civiliza-
tion. At this time the people were ener-
getically at work upon the Temple, and
President Brigham Young and his brethren
of the Quorum of the Twelve, with the
Bishops and all the leading men, were
pushing everything forward towards com-
pleting the Temple, in order to obtain cer-
tain blessings and confirmations that had
been promised to the Saints when the
Temple should be so far finished as to ena-
ble them to work in it. The people were
most of them poor, and they denied them-
selves every comfort they possibly could to 
assist, in finishing the Lord's house. In
the latter part of the fall of 1845 we com-
menced work in the Temple, and then I
gave myself, my time and attention to that
mission. I worked in the Temple every
day without cessation until it was closed.
	We were making preparations to leave
Nauvoo and go into the wilderness. I had
a large family, and my household cares and
my many other duties were indeed arduous;
I worked constantly day and night, scarcely
sleeping at all, so great was my anxiety to
accomplish all that was necessary and go
with the first company who left in Febru-
ary, 1846, crossing the Mississippi river
on the ice.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE has been reconsidered
and voted down in the Constitutional Con-
vention of California.
	TESTIMONIES FROM Wyoming, in regard
to the question of the good effects of wo-
man suffrage, are to be published in pam-
phlet form; price, $1.00 per hundred copies.
	JOHN A. LOGAN'S election to the U. S.
Senate by the Illinois Legislature is said to
have been largely effected through the
electioneering talent of his wife. It is said
"she has more than once in difficult circum-
stances turned the scale in her husband's
favor."


MISS ANNA E. Dickinson has written for
Mr. John McCullough a play called "Aure-
lian," which that actor is to bring out next
April, with himself in the title role. Miss
Dickinson is to play with him, taking the
first female part of Queen Zenobia. The
scenes of the play are laid in Rome and
Palmyra, and the work is said to be ex-
tremly ideal, and yet full of human inter-
est.—Ex.


[For the EXPONENT.
		GOD'S LAW VS. MAN'S LAW.

	I have been thinking of the vast amount
of testimony we and the world have of the
truth of the Latter-day work. Is there
any possibility of our being mistaken?
Even the Pyramids are confirming the
truth. The United States are testifying to
the truth of this work; also the sea, plagues,
war, famine and fire are uttering their ter-
rible voices in confirmation of the truth.
Our Elders went, a small and feeble band,
to declare that an angel from on high had
come and restored the Gospel to the earth
as anciently! also that these angels ushered
in a gathering dispensation, to gather to-
gether those who would believe them, to a
place where they could learn of the ways
of the Lord. All was peace then. They
said that after them should come the testi-
mony of fire and of the sword, of thunder
and lightning, of the sea heaving itself be-
yond its bounds, plagues, famine, persecu-
tion and unjust legislation, not only against
this people, but against one another—that
the strong should oppress the weak, that
the floodgates of religious persecution
should be lifted by the decision of unjust
judges, first to crush this people, then to
crush one another; that it should never
cease, till its fearful waves had rushed over
the whole land; until every man's hand
should be raised against his neighbor,
father against son, son against father, mother
against daughter, daughter against mother.
	I bear my testimony that I heard the
Elders declare that the time would come
when the highest judiciary power in the
land would decide unjustly against this
people. That was thirty years since. Has
that time arrived, or is it yet in the future?
Judge ye whom it may concern. Is it just
to dishonor men, women and children for
their religious opinion? We know that
God has revealed from the heavens the
principles of everlasting salvation, and fear-
ing God rather than men have obeyed him;
knowing that He will require at our hands
obedience to His will, shall we be obedient
to Him rather than man's command? Yes,
decidedly yes. The past is the chapter
read, the future we can read just as plain.
We know that offences must come, but woe
unto them by whom they come; God will
not always be mocked. Let us be faithful,
stand firm, fear nothing man may do, for
he can do nothing but that which he is
permitted. All the prophecies must be
fulfilled. Let us be united; there is more
to fear from ourselves than all the world
besides. Let us remember Daniel and his
victory, and rejoice when all men speak
evil falsely against us for Christ's sake.
								MARY.
	Grantsville, Feb. 6, 1879.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Statistical Report of  Salt Lake Stake Re-
lief Society for year ending December,
1878.
Teachers...............................................    374
Total officers, teachers and members...1,737
Meeting held.........................................   442
Average attendance..............................    518
Church papers reported........................      87
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.....................    261
On hand at date of last report, cash $ 336  95
Property...........................................  9218 88
Receipts for year.............................  1501 88
Disbursed                 Cash                    Property
To poor..........................$852 20....................$1939 81
Emigration..................... 237 50
Temple..........................  732 05.....................   167 93
Home Industries...........    57 90
Books...........................  102 85.....................    538 83
Building.......................  550.90
Indians.........................             .....................     175 30
Missionary................... 150 25
On hand....................... 547 95......................   7515 27
2486 bushels of wheat stored, and cash on
hand to purchase wheat.................$358 00
Through misunderstanding some of the
secretaries sent in Quarterly instead of
Yearly reports, which quarterlies are not
included in the above, except the wheat,
which is in full.
It would be exceedingly commendable if
the secretaries in the different wards in
the Stake would procure for their use the
printed blanks, that are for sale at the EX-
PONENT Office, and pay strict attention to
filling in the spaces properly.  The manner
in which the reports are sent in now causes
it to be utterly impossible for the Stake
Secretary to make up her report so as to be
satisfactorily presented to the Quarterly
Conference.
ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


EVANSTON, WYOMING, Jan. 24, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Evanston Ward of the Summit Stake
was visited by Sisters E. R. Snow and E.
Davis on Nov. 14th, 1878, and under their
auspices our worthy Bishop, Wm. G. Burton,
organized a Relief Society, with the fol-
lowing officers:

	Hannah Burton, President.
	Amelia Cashmore,	} Counselors.
	Mary Whittle,		}
	Sarah Maud Burton, Secretary.
	Hattie Huff, Treasurer.

	Also four teachers, with a roll of thirty-
two officers and members.
	Sister Snow imparted to the sisters im-
portant counsel for their guidance. The
visit of Sisters Snow and Davis will be long
remembered by the sisters of this ward as
a time of refreshing to their spirits, by the
rich outpouring of the Spirit of our holy
religion, and since which time the sisters
of the ward have held weekly meetings for
general purposes, and also in visiting the
sick, especially in looking after our now de-
parted sister, Hannah Carpenter, the notice
of whose demise has been published in the
"Deseret News." She had been confined
to her bed for many weary months, but she
is now gone to rest to await the trump of
the angel of the resurrection. Her funeral
was attended by about the largest concourse
of people in Evanston. Our own meeting
house being too small, the Rev. Mr. Arnold
of the Presbyterian Church kindly loaned
his church for the funeral service, at which
a very impressive discourse was delivered


by our worthy Bishop and very appropriate
hymns sung by the ward choir. A deep
solemnity rested upon the assembly through-
out. Her remains were followed to the
grave by sixteen sleighs.
	The EXPONENT is always acceptable and
read with great interest by the sisters.
May the Lord our God bless its editor and
contributors. I remain your sister in the
Gospel of peace.
	SARAH M. BURTON, Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.
WOODRUFF, ARIZONA, Dec. 28, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
Dear Sister--It is with pleasure that I
again have the privilege of addressing a
few lines to my dear old friend, Editor of
EXPONENT. I appreciate the privilege of
corresponding more than ever, because I
have not been able to write in consequence
of having had sore eyes since we stopped
traveling, which is about three months.  I
have not seen a No. of the EXPONENT later
than July.  I should have written for it to
be sent here on our arrival, but not being
permanently located, and no regular mail
to this place, I have waited until the pre-
sent, hoping to gain a knowledge of the 
country and the circumstances controlling
the organizing of settlements; and having
remained here for three months on the pub-
lic road running through the settlements
on Little Colorado, leading from Camp
Apache to Prescott, the Capital, as there are
a great many enterprising gentlemen look-
ing after the development of this country,
I have had the opportunity of hearing the
opinions of a good many, which have been
favorable, now I feel willing to give mine.
	Arizona is a better country than I expect-
ed to find, and I believe it to be the best
that the Mormons have ever settled since
they were driven from their homes in Mis-
souri.  Notwithstanding the country is
wild and romantic, there is a sacred, peace-
ful influence brooding over this land, which
betokens the guardianship of holy angels,
and the many ancient relics that cover the
land give evidence that a mighty nation
once dwelt here; and that this land has
been held in reserve for the Saints of the
Most High is a consolation to those who
have left their beautiful homes and friends
to build up the waste places of Zion; for
everywhere that the Eternal Priesthood has
bowed the knee and left their footprints
upon this soil the earth gives evidence of
the blessing of redemption sealed upon it,
by an increase of water and vegetation,
which will continue to increase until it will
not only abound with flocks and herds; but
become a fruitful field, abounding also with
the cities af the Saints, where the voice of
thanksgiving and melody shall be heard,
and the earth thall be made glad and re-
echo the praises of God because of the in-
habitants that dwell upon her, even as the
ancient Prophet has said.
	An additional proof of the blessing at-
tending the settling of this country is the
good feeling and welcome that our people
meet with  from the Indians and Mexicans;
our children will [-]arn their language and
teach them the plan of salvation.  We
have free schools, and they seem inclined
to learn the English language.  Men hold-
ing responsible positions in the Territory,
Gov. Freemont and Members of the Legis-
lature, have expressed themselves favora-
ble to our people colonizing the country and
organizing counties and electing their own
officers.  The citizens have sent petitions
for mail routes and Post Offices to be estab-
lished throughout the settlements.  Bishop
Tinney, visiting Prescott recently, said he
never was treated with a more hearty wel-
come to the hospitality of the Governor
and Mr. Beach, Editor of the "Arizona
Miner," who has visited the Mormon set-
tlements, and whose acquaintance we made
on our arrival at Sunset.--He also expressed
himself favorably.
	Now I know you would like to hear some-
thing concerning the United Order in those
settlements at Sunset and Brigham City.
They all eat at the big table.  We stopped
there two days, and gladly accepted an in-
vitation to dine with them; we found every-
thing orderly and cleanly and plenty to
eat. Through the courtesy of Bro. James
Woods, we visited the milk house, which
was superior to any I ever saw, and also
the kitchen and bakery, which were ar-
ranged so that three or four persons could
do the cooking for a hundred, or more, per-
sons.  Those who do not wish to unite in
this order of things have the privilege of
co-operating or settling where they choose;
this will enable them to locate the land
much faster.
	We have received several copies of the
"Deseret News," containing an account of
Apostles Pratt and Smith's visit to the
East, which was very interesting; and also
an account of the Mass Meeting of the sis-
ters, held in the Theatre, which caused our
hearts to rejoice exceedingly, and say there
are thousands of noble women whose hearts
beat responsive to the defense made by
their sisters on that occasion.
	Jan. 4th.  All well.  We have Sunday
School and meeting in all the settlements.
There are about a hundred families who
have come in this winter all well, and have
had a successful journey.
With love to the brethren and sisters I
remain devoted to the kingdom.
W. EAST.
WOODRUFF, RICH CO., Feb. 3, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
* * *  We are a small settle-
ment, yet we are trying to do what we can
toward building up the kingdom of God on
the earth, realizing that the time is short.
How little time have we, as Latter-day
Saints to spend in pride and folly.  It seems
to me, when I think of the destitution
there is among the Saints of the Old World,
that we as Saints should put aside some of
our unneccesary expenditures, and see
how much might be saved towards gather-
ing the poor.  It may look to us a small
matter, but I think it would amount to
quite a sum in the course of a year.  Let
us, as Daughters of Zion, awaken to the
duties that rest upon us, and perform these
obligations faithfully in the fear of the
Lord. Praying for the welfare of the
daugthers of Zion, I remain your sister in
the covenant of truth,
LORINDA K. ALLEN.


REFINEMENT.—Refinement is not fas-
tidiousness. It is always allied to simplic-
ity and a judicious and tasteful employ-
ment of the means for good and happiness
which it has at command. It seeks to di-
vest itself of superfluities, and aspires con-
tinually to the utmost possible purity.
	MOTHERHOOD will be woman's crowning
joy, her life's purest enthusiasm and most
perfect expression.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		193﻿


DON'T MARRY A MAN TO SAVE HIM.

BY SARAH E. BOLTON.

A cry comes over from Oregon
For a car-load—not of women wan,
But of women of brain and blood, and ton?—
	"Come, marry these men to save them!

"There are thousands here in these haunts of sin
Spending their money in game and gin,
Corrupt without and corrupt within;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"They have been somebody's pride and joy!
Somebody's petted and pampered boy;
Spoiled for lack of a maiden coy;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be healthy, and pure, and strong,
Alike to breast and bear the wrong,
Willing to carry a burden along;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be leader, but always seem
To be gentle and helpless as love's young dream,
And leaned upon when you seem to lean;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

"You must be cleanly, and kind, and sweet,
Making a path for their godless feet
Up to the grace of the mercy-seat;
	Come, marry these men to save them!

Oh! woman, you're sold at a fearful price
If you wed your virtue to a chance device,
And trust your soul to that of vice:
	Don't marry a man to save him!

A life that is pure needs a pure one in turn,
A being to honor and not to spurn,
An equal love, that shall constant burn;
	Don't marry a man to save him!

A woman's life is a precious thing,
Her love is a rose unwithering;
Would you bury it deep in its early spring?
	Don't marry a man to save them!

You can pray for his soul from morn till eve,
You can win the angels to bring reprieve
To his sin-bound heart, but you'll always grieve
	If you marry a man to save him.

God gives to Woman a right to press
Her claim to a man's best manliness;
A woman gives all, should a man give less?
	Don't marry a man to save him!

	—Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			PRACTICAL HINTS.

	We, the veritable women of Utah, are
more or less agitated and incensed with
the movements of the Anti-Polygamic wo-
men of our city, who are seeking to arouse
public sentiment against us to deprive us
of our rights and privileges as American
citizens; who are forming themselves into
societies to strengthen their forces that they
may better accomplish our ruin. And could
we feel otherwise, we would be unworthy
the name of wife, or mother; but as it is,
we feel the utmost contempt for those med-
dlesome friends who are taking such active
measures to regulate our family affairs.
	And while we are justly indignant with
them let us make room in our minds for
another subject—the "Word of Wisdom."
I wish it might be sent to every settlement
in the Territory, with instructions for the
Saints to write and talk about it in their
meetings and in all their social gatherings.
	Do we as a people realize the importance
of those precious words? Do we accept
them as the word of God unto us? Are
they observed by this people as they should
be? How few Latter-day Saints there are
in this Territory at the present time who
abstain from tea and coffee; and the use of
whiskey and tobacco is increasing, and how
few consider it worth while to even give a
thought to these and other unwholesome
practices. Is it not high time to wake up
and open our eyes and look about us? If
the Lord had no purpose in giving the
Word of Wisdom, why did He take the

[Column 2]
trouble to give it? And if it is not neces-
sary for us to observe it, why was it given
at all? Do we not know that all stimulants
taken into the stomach are unhealthy? We
see our little ones swept from our midst,
one here, two there; and four and five of
one family stricken down with this dread-
ful diphtheria. Do we realize that there is
a cause, and also a remedy for these things?
Does not common sense tell us that their
little bodies are charged with impurities,
and their blood is thoroughly impregnated
with poison inherited from their parents.
It affects the little ones more readily than
it does the older ones. I do not address
the ladies because I think the remedy is
altogether with them. No! the gentlemen
are more culpable; they take far more poi-
son into their systems than the women do.
I have heard of one or two women who
drink wine, etc., to excess, and it may be
that a few old ladies smoke their pipes; but
as for chewing tobacco (the worst poison of
all) there are no women who indulge in the
filthy practice.
	Of course it is not our province to teach
the Elders their duty, but we can intercede
with them; but if they will persist in pol-
luting their bodies with these filthy poisons,
the Lord may deal with them in a way they
think not of.
	When the word was sent forth to the sis-
ters to store up wheat they went to work
with a will, buying and gleaning, until
nearly every settlement in the Territory
has more or less grain garnered up. But,
sisters, what good will the wheat do you,
if your homes are left desolate, your chil-
dren stricken down with disease? Can you
not see that something must be done to
promote health and life, something to regen-
erate the human family? Let us begin by
observing the Word of Wisdom; there is a
promise in that we can claim.
	The evils that have been done cannot be
altogether undone, but those who may yet
be fathers and mothers should think of
these things, and not contract unhealthy
and degenerating habits, but observe the
laws of life and health, keeping their sys-
tems pure, that the human family may be
healthier and wiser. Dr. Foot says "Habit
is second nature;" so says the proverbialist.
How important then it is that we should
form such habits as will tend to develop
health and mental vigor, instead of physi-
cal decay and mental imbecility. He also
says: "If half the time and money expend-
ed to recover health had been timely de-
voted to the preservation of health, life
would be a more enjoyable and less expen-
sive luxury."
	We are a people that believe in revela-
tion, but how little heed do we give to its
teachings. Sisters, it is time to rouse your-
selves and see what can be done to remove
the causes of ill health. There are manyother things besides those I have mentioned
that should be dispensed with; we need a
reformation in dress from head to foot. We
can hear good lectures, and read good books,
and receive the word of the Lord and the
teachings of wise men, yet with all this
knowledge that we receive how slow we
are to listen to reason. We would rather
suffer with ill health all our lives, and see
our little ones pass away from us one by one,
than to part with our darling corsets and
our tight, thin shoes, which two articles
cause more sickness and death than any
other portion of woman's dress. The hard-
est thing for us to do is to face public opin-
ion, as far as regards dress. We care too
much for what people may think of our
looks. Let the sisters one and all take the
advice of Dr. Fairchild and cremate every

[Column 3]
corset in the Territory, and make room for
a healthy circulation of the blood; or, in
other words, make room for life to dwell in
our bodies. If we feel indifferent about
our own health and life, let us have some
consideration for our posterity. A great
responsibility rests upon this people in re-
gard to future generations, and unless we
take heed we will come under condemna-
tion. The Lord has a great work for this
people to do, and it will take all the health,
strength, ability, might and power we can
muster. The Lord will not force health and
happiness upon us, but He will help us to
obtain it if we will follow His instructions.
	Now I think we have got something to
do, and I think it is time we set ourselves
about it, before our little ones are all taken
from us and we are left to mourn in sorrow.
What can be more desirable than a strong
and healthy constitution, to see our sons
and daughters growing up to be mighty
men and women in Israel? If the physical
strength is good the mind will be more en-
ergetic and more susceptible to good teach-
ings. There is a complete sympathy be-
tween the spirit and the body, more intri-
cate than a great many imagine. They are
inseparable in progression. If the spirit
leaves the body it dies, and I think the
soul can make but little advancement sepa-
rated from the body.
	For the last few years of Pres. Young's
life he tried every way to impress upon the
minds of the people the necessity of reform-
ing both in dress and food. How to pro-
mote the most good should be our constant
study. Pork should be thrown to the dogs;
it is generally pork-eaters that are troubled
with tumors, and cancers, and worms, es-
pecially the tape-worm. They are more
liable to take the smallpox and other conta-
gious diseases. Educated men and women
physicians cry out against these things.
And while I write, the vision of my mind
is opened, and I see where our folly is lead-
ing us. I see death instead of life be-
queathed to our children, and yet our eyes
are closed and we persist in our death-
dealing course.
	I would I had the voice of an angel, that
it might penetrate the heart of every man
and woman, and rouse them to a sense of
their danger. Latter-day Saints, wake up
and save your children. Let common sense
have fair play; be governed by reason; lis-
ten to the Word of Wisdom; look about and
see where you stand and where you are
drifting to. These are not things of small
moment; great events depend upon our
course at the present time. Already have
we procrastinated too long. A speedy re-
form must be inaugurated, if we would es-
cape intolerable sorrow.
								ENG.


TRANSMISSION:—Is the title of a little
book of 68 pages recently published by S.
R. Wells & Co., N. Y. The author, Georgi-
ana B. Kirby, writing from Santa Cruz, Cal.,
says, and truly, it is but a hint in the right
direction. The book will probably receive
further notice in a future number of this
paper.			S. M. K.
	"WE EXTRACT the following from our cor-
respondent's letter: "We are rejoicing in
Santa Cruz over our first sufficient rain
fall, which began on the eve of the 30th
ult. The oldest Spaniards remember a win-
ter forty years, or more, ago, when there
was no rain at all and the people drove the
greater portion of their cattle over the
bluffs into the Bay in order to save the re-
mainder. So there is a slight distrust of
providence every year until the ground is
well soaked."		S. M. K.


194		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1879.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

	In our last editorial, written from Washing-
ton, we promised our readers to tell them some-
thing more of our visit to the National Capi-
tol, and perhaps we ought to say a trifle more
concerning the Convention. The suffrage la-
dies espoused the cause we represented nobly,
and gave us more opportunities of bringing the
Utah question forward than we could possibly
have expected. Indeed, we felt delicate in re-
sponding to their kind and pressing solicita-
tions to speak, knowing how very unpopular
Mormonism is in the world. We have a grate-
ful remembrance of these noble women, and
trust in the future we may have an opportunity
of returning the kindnesses and courtesies we
received at their hands. We are sorry we are
not able to publish a book and mention all the
ladies who impressed us favorably, but we
really must notice a few more with whom it
was pleasant to meet and converse. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith is a lady of the finest culture, her
soft beautiful grey curls clustered about her
fair forehead and suggested the face of a poet.
We had read and enjoyed her writings from
our earliest childhood, and to stand face to face
and converse with her was like the fulfillment
of some bright dream.
	The Misses Foster, from Philadelphia, were
young ladies of fine attainments intellectually,
and devoted to the promotion of the advance-
ment of woman. They represented the Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia. Mrs. Sey-
mour was a lovely little woman from good old
Massachusetts. Her dress, her manner, her
tone of voice, her very presence bespoke refine-
ment, culture and a finished education.
	Mrs. Helen M. Slocum, of New York, Mrs.
C. B. Winslow, M. D., editor of the "Alpha"
in Washington, each addressed the Conven-
tion in Lincoln Hall, speaking eloquently on
the terrible evils of society at the present time
and the great need of reform, and woman's
help.  Both these ladies are fine scholars and
fluent speakers.
	The reporters of Washington papers who at-
tended the Convention, and the ladies who 
represented newspapers from all parts of the
country were extremely gracious to us, and in
many instances gave us favorable notices in
their letters. Among this number we must
not forget Miss Grundy, whose letters to the
Philadelphia "Times" and Boston "Herald"
are always considered "par excellence." Miss
Woodbury, Mrs. Garrigan, and many others
too numerous to mention by name were very
kind indeed, and several gentlemen and gen-
tlemanly reporters were also extremely polite.
We have no reason whatever to complain of
this class; we were always admitted to the re-
porter's gallery, either in the Senate or House,
through the courtesy of Mrs. Spencer, whose
name was a talisman to open the way to all

[Column 2]

such places. We became [tolerably familiar
with the Capitol, and spent much of our time
in watching the doings of Senators and Con-
gressmen; indeed, it puzzled some people to
see how easily we obtained a hearing.
	We cannot tell you now just how we man-
aged to see everybody we wanted to see, and
say what we wanted to say, but we will pass
on to the White House (at some future time
we will tell you about the receptions) and our
interview with President Hayes. His Excel-
lency made the appointment himself, and after
we had given him a few facts in relation to the
condition of this people, and what was likely
to be the consequences of severe and harsh
measures, he remarked that he had never be-
fore considered the subject in the light we had
presented it, and he felt it was of too much
importance to trust to memory, and desired us
to make a similar statement in writing, which
we prepared and placed in His Excellency's
hands before leaving Washington. We also
had the pleasure of a private interview with
Mrs. Hayes, who is certainly a most remarka-
ble woman; her simplicity in dress, her home-
like air, her friendly greeting for all those who
call upon her, her sweet expression, her benevo-
lent face and charming manner all attract the
admiration of visitors, and her firmness in per-
sisting in discarding wine and all intoxicating
drinks from the White House, all these things
stamp her as a woman of remarkably strong
character. To our party she was kindness per-
sonified; she listened attentively to all we had
to say in regard to the circumstances of our
people, and her womanly sympathies were
very perceptibly aroused.
	We frequently met with people who mani-
fested the greatest interest in the Mormon
Question. How far their influence might bene-
fit our people, or how much popularity they
would sacrifice for the sake of aiding the Mor-
mons, we have no way of determining.
	After having spent a little more than three
weeks in this famous city, striving to do some
little good in removing prejudice, we bid adieu
for a short season at least to the seat of govern-
ment and took the train for Chicago. We had
a quick and pleasant journey to that city,
reaching there at 6 o'clock in the morning; we
drove to the Palmer House and breakfasted.
There we met some of the members of the Ju-
diciary Committee of the House, who had
come there to investigate in the impeachment
of Judge Blodgett. We traveled on the Chi-
cago and Northwestern Railway to Omaha,
then took the U. P. for Ogden. On this road
we formed some pleasant traveling acquaint-
ances. There was a great variety of persons
to interest a student of human nature; Jews,
Gentiles and Mormons, all sociable and in-
clined to play the agreeable with each other.
There were doctors, lawyers, judges, scholars,
merchants, and, of gentleman and ladies the
Pullman car was full. There were two or three
charming young widows who seemed to have
manifold attractions for the gentlemen passen-
gers, and indeed the ladies were a little smit-
ten with their handsome faces and brilliant
conversation. There was a sweet-faced young
bride from Washington, accompanying her
husband to San Diego, Cal. She had never
been away from home and mama, and her
artless and innocent manner, her devotion to
the man of her choice, her youth, her beauty
and her subdued gaiety all awakened a pecu-
liar interest, which called forth emotions akin
to sorrow, for it carried us back many, many
long years, when we, then in the sweet trust
and innocence of early girlhood embarked on
the sea of matrimony, and leaving our happy
home, mother, and all we loved and held dear,

[Column 3]

journeyed westward, with perfect faith in him
to whom we had consigned the keeping of our
soul's treasures. But alas! the sequel remains
locked in our heart of hearts, too sacred for
the eyes of the curious. Forgive if we digress.
Suffice it to say we offered a silent prayer that
the future path of the young bride might be
strewn with the fairest of earth's flowers.
	The passengers were many of them going to
San Francisco and other places west, for busi-
ness purposes, a few were traveling for health
or pleasure. Mr. Tevis, of San Francisco, was
returning home from a tour abroad; he had
visited the European .continent, the British
Isles and Greenland Theodore M.Lilienthal,son
of the Rev. Dr. Lilienthal, of Cincinnati, a very
genial man of education and culture, a most
agreeable traveling companion, was one of the
party. Thomas Godey, jr., of Baltimore, very
young and attractive, was making his first trip
west to visit relatives in the far famed city of
the Pacific. To mention all the party's full
names would be useless, as our readers could
not appreciate the compliment not knowing
the persons, but we will close this part of the
chapter by saying that the time was agreeably
spent and left a happy impression of the party
in our minds. We arrived at home on the
evening of Feb. 4, finding all well, prosperous
and happy in the "City of the Saints."
	Once more we are sitting at the same desk,
seeing the same faces come in and out, and we
might almost fancy we had been dreaming, if
it were not for the hearty congratulations, the
warm welcomes, which remind us we must
have been absent, doing something, or saying
something—we scarcely realize ourselves; yet
with a perfect consciousness that there must
have been an unseen power which guided us,
sustained us in our labors, and brought us safe
home to the "valley we love."
	E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.
PRESIDENT ELIZA R. SNOW has been visit-
ing Relief Societies in Weber Co., and holding
meetings In the various settlements for more
than a week past.
SISTERS ZINA D. YOUNG, M. I. Horne and
E. S. Taylor visited the R. S. in Tooele and
held a meeting there on Saturday, returning on
Monday the 10th inst.
WE trust our patrons will excuse any seeming
neglect in publishing R.S. Reports and notices
of mass meetings in the various stakes and
towns as we have so recently returned and find
so much copy awaiting publication that we
have scarcely had time to arrange it all proper-
ly.  Our correspondents must not think their
letters lost or rejected because they have not
yet appeared; for our desk is full, and we will
answer those that require answers just as
soon as possible.  Meantime we hope we shall
still be favored with their future correspond-
ence; the more we have to select from the bet-
ter; and we shall seek to cull the very choicest
articles of prose and poetry.
ON Thursday, Feb. 6, we attended a special
meeting of the Relief Society, held in Union
Hall, in Ogden City.  Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
President of the Weber Co. R. S., presided.
There was a large and attentive assembly.
After the usual exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Richards made a few opening remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Zina Young Williams.  These ladies gave a
short sketch of their trip to Washington, and
their interviews with some of the leading men
of the nation. President Eliza R. Snow was
the principal speaker on the occasion, she gave


items of her experience in Missouri and Illinois,
when she had sought for justice at the hands
of leading men in those States. She
spoke strongly and earnestly upon home
industries and urged the sisters to use
their utmost powers to help in establishing
home manufacturers. Elder Franklin D. Rich-
ards made a few closing remarks in which he
expressed himself in regard to the work in 
which the sisters are engaged. For all good
words of appreciation and encouragement from
men and especially brethren, we feel truly glad,
for woman's cause and man's cause is insepar-
able, and must be a mutually co-operative
work.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.
The Speaker laid before the House the me-
morial of Emmeline B. Wells and Zina Young
Williams, of Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
asking for the repeal of the anti polygamy law
of 1862, and for legislation to protect the wo-
men and childeren of Utah Territory.
MR. CLARK, of Missouri.  I ask that the
paper be read.
The paper was read, as follows:

To the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States in Congress assembled:
Whereas a recent decision of the Supreme
Court of the United States has declared the
anti-polygamy law of 1862 to be in accordance
with the Constitution; and
 Whereas we, and Mormon women generally,
previous to that decision implicitly believed
that this law was in violation of the Constitu
tion. which says, “Congress shall make no law
respec[-]ing an establishment of religion, or pro-
hibiting the free exercise thereof;" and
Whereas under our present civilization we
have a peaceful, prosperous and healthy con-
dition of society, our children are owned and
supported by their fathers and are equally rec-
ognized as heirs to their father's estate, and our
women are protected from the temptation to
infanticide and kindred crimes; and
 Whereas the enforcement of the law of 1862
would imprison our husbands, despoil and de-
stroy our homes, render our children illegiti-
mate before the world, and leave ourselves and
many thousands of women desolate and un-
protected; and
Whereas this example set by the United
States would encourage mobs to violently as-
sault and afflict us as in times past, when we
were driven from State to State far out beyond
the pale of this Republic; and 
Whereas we went far out into the wilderness
by the advice and at the suggestion of eminent
leading American statesman, that we might
worship God according to the dicta'es of our
own consciences, without fear or molestation,
and at the same time extend to all, of what-
ever faith, the same precious privilege; and
Whereas, after the United States had taken
possession of the land which our people had
redeemed from the desert and made prosperous,
and which the Mormon battalion under Colonel
Philip St. George Cooke had togther with
what is now known as California, Nevada,
New Mexico and Arizona, helped to conquer,
President Fillmore, "by the advice and consent,
of the Senate," appointed Brigham Young,
then a practical polygamist, governor of Utah,
we had good reason to believe the Govern-
ment would continue to protect us in our reli-
gious faith and its practice, and 
Whereas harsh measures toward our people,
such as destruction of families and homes, will
have a tendency to drive many to desperation,
while just and humane treatment will foster


and strengthen love and affection for the Gov-
ernment, thereby securing a more peaceful is-
sue of affairs now pending; and
Whereas we ourselves and a majority of our
people are native-born citizens of the United
States and desire to live in obedience to the
laws of our country; Therefore
We pray your honorble body to repeal the
anti polygamy law of 1862; and
We further pray you to enact such legisla-
tion as will securely legitimatize our children
and protect our names from dishonor by pre-
serving unbroken the existing relationship of
families which are already bound together by
the strongest ties of affection, and whose lives
would be forever wrecked through separation;
and
We further pray that in any future legislation
concerning the marriage relation in any Terri-
tory under your jurisdiction you will consider
the rights, the hearts, and the consciences of
the women to be affected by such legislation,
and that you will consider the permanent care
and welfare of children as the sure foundation
of the state.
 And your petitioners will ever pray.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		ZINA YOUNG WILLIAMS.
MR. CANNON, of Utah.  I move that the me-
morial be referred to the Committe on the Ju-
diciary, with leave to report at any time.
MR. TOWNSEND, of New York.  I object to
leave being given to report at any time.  I do
not object to the reference.
The memorial was referred to the Committee
on the Jndiciary.
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-POYGAMY LAW.
The Speaker also laid before the House a let-
ter from the Secretary of the Interior, trans-
mitting a number of petitions for the enforce-
ment of the anti-polygamy law referred to that
Department by the President; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.


EXTRACT.

FROM THE LETTER OF A LADY PHYSICIAN
IN PENNSYLVANIA.

DEAR MRS. WELLS:
*	*	*	I wish I could do something
to encourage and cheer you. I sent you the
first notice I saw of the movement of the
Anti-polygamy Crusade. I was greatly sur-
prised as well as grieved to know that there
were women so utterly ignorant of God's laws
as to inaugurate such a movement. I do not,
of course, know the laws of your church, but
take it for granted that they are binding, just
as they should be. That women are degraded,
enslaved, and cruelly treated in the polygamic
creed I do not believe. My knowledge of wo-
man teaches me that the conditions of women
in plural marriage must be more consistent
with the laws of life and health than in mo-
nogamy.
	Prostitution and [-]eath are broadcast in our
land to-day from this very cause, and there
seems to be no stay to the foul fiend. "Death
mocks at it with a h[-]-ha—society hisses and
scorns," itself reeking in the filthy slough.
Polygamy a curs[-]?  Nay, not that, but the
greatest blessing ever bestowed upon woman;
and thousands to-day would flock to the stand-
ard did they but understand and know the
true laws governing them. I do not believe
that there is a true woman in our land to-day
but grieves and silently sorrows at the down-
fall of any wom[-]n, but s[-]e is helpless and can
do nothing, not even give a helping hand to


the fallen one; and it seems to me this is the
only way out of it. You have my heartiest
prayers and deepest sympathies, and would to 
God I could do something to help elevate and
ennoble woman. I am doing something, but
it is so little compared to the field before me
that I feel humble, and it seems to me some-
times that I am a stumbling block instead of
an aid.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at West Jordan, Jan. 16, 1879, Abigail
Bradford, wife of Bishop A. Gardner, aged 66
years and 4 months. Sister Gardner joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
at an early date in its history, shared in the 
persecutions of the Saints, and emigrated to
Utah in the year 1847. She was always firm
in the faith, and was a zealous advocate of the
principles of the latter-day work. "Aunt Ab-
bie," as she was familiarly called had many
noble qualities of both heart and mind. She
was a member of the Relief Society, and an
earnest laborer in all good works. Her loss
will be felt not only by her relations, but by a
host of intimate friends and aasociates. Her
remains were inter[-]ed in Salt Lake City ceme-
tery, by the side of a number of her kindred.
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
their works do follow them.


[Column 1]
CAREFUL TRAINING.

	How necessary that the training of chil-
dren should be directed with care and cau-
tion, as their little minds are very suscept-
able to impressions that will form a part of
their character and deportment, and will
indeliby mark their future path in life.
	This thought was called forth from a par-
lor entertainment last evening at Mrs. Jones
of the 11th ward, in this city. There was
a little handful of parents and children
seated in front of a temporary stage, which
was beautifully ornamented with hanging
baskets of moss-work and autumn leaves,
and temporary furniture; all of which was
the design and result of her own handi-
work.
	In turn came a little trained group, which
I learned was tutored by Miss Emma Jones.
The entertainment consisted of recitations,
songs, drama, dialogue and a tableau.
	The mosses and vines carried my mind
away into the hills, and back to the sea-
weed of the ocean. As the little fairies come
dancing upon the stage in such simplicity,
all so youthful, with such grace and gen-
tility, the scene and the actors bespoke a
talent, and a love for the beautiful. The
piano aided to echo heavenly sentiments
to our hearts. At the close the tableau
composed of the little fairy group, formed
a heavenly picture, and we all exclaimed,
"how beautiful!"
	This my sisters was real home enjoy-
ment, home taient, home manufacture.
	Then why? I ask, should the Latter-day
Saints, send for, and spend much, to pur-
chase toys to amuse and entertain the
youth, when better can be produced at
home. Simple amusements formed in
home circles, will not fail to leave good
impressions upon the youthful mind and
help to establish a love for home.
						E. S. Barney
	Feb. 8th 1879.


TRUTHS were born with eternity; the ca-
pacity to apprehend them waits in time.--
E. S. TURNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			LIFE AT THE CAPITOL.

	Washington, the famous city of all oth-
ers, where American Statesmen annually
assemble to make and devise laws and em-
power the nation's courts; where genius,
fashion and wisdom vie for mastery; where
great men bow to human laws, and cowards
grovel at the feet of diplomatists--here I 
find myself looking on and wondering,
taking an active part, too, in work which
erst seemed distasteful.  From Senate to
House, from one Reporter's Gallery to the
other, through long corridors and halls,
up and down wide staircases, and narrow
ones - getting interviewed by newspaper
people on the way - into Committee Rooms,
and waiting in window recesses - all these
things I've been doing, but with a personal
feeling of intense abhorrence, yet with a
strong sense of duty.
 To be sure there are many beautiful his-
torical paintings, and pictures of great men,
statuary, etc., pillars of polished marble,
magnificent, ornamental and the most elab-
orate and artistic architecture, all these and
much more, but here where beautiful
things predominate, viewing the greatest
men who are before the nation to-day, there
arises within me the most peculiar feelings
and curious thoughts, and although the
surroundings are calculated to inspire one
with reverence for the past and those whose
figures in painting and sculpture adorn
Washington's most magnificent building,
"the Capitol," yet the scenes going on
around me, the conversation which falls up-
on my ear, dispels the semi-enchantment
and drags the senses back to a keener ap-
preciation of the phases of human life, as
they present themselves to those who are
looking on.
	Here and there, alone and in groups, are
numbers of people all eager and expectant,
each with the very impress of their own na-
ture visibly stamped upon the countenance.
Some tired, restless, but earnest ones, some
careless, frivolous, gay ones; they wait
around the staircases, in the halls, at the
doors of Committee Rooms, men and wo-
men, all with a purpose - to carry some
measure, to obtain some favor, or to influ-
ence some member of Congress for or
against the passage of some bill, or appro-
priation.
Pretty little scenes of a ridiculous or sen-
timental nature are constantly occurring.
Noticing one day a woman of decidedly
odd appearance, I observed her actions as I
sat alone waiting the audience of a Senator;
she called a messenger and sent her card;
a very dignified elderly gentleman came
from the Senate.  She rose and took his
proffered hand, welcoming him most cor-
dially, never letting go his hand one minute
- he was evidently much embarrassed,
there were many people in the room; she
looked up into his face, and smiled as she
urged her question.  He stammered and
hesitated; she persisted, she coaxed, and at
intervals laughed aloud like a young miss
of sixteen; she kept him in agony, until he
could not, or would not, endure it any
longer (holding his hand up to the last mo-
ment), and at last she was obliged to let
him go.  I could not hear except now and 
then a word, but that was sufficient to
arouse my curiosity in the woman.  She
soon sent for another Senator, and after
persecuting three of them in a similar man-
ner, she hobbled out.  I always had a great
respect for age, but this woman, over sev-
enty years old, as I afterward learned, as-
suming the costume and manners of a young
woman, with yellow wig, "rouge" and
powder, disgusted me.  A newspaper man
to whom I had been introduced, noticing I
observed her, asked me if I knew who she
was; I replied in the negative; he told me
her name; it was one with which I was fa-
miliar, through Washington papers.  There
are scores, I may say, of young women who
coax, and flirt, and practice all sorts of in-
nocent little arts to carry out their own pur-
poses, and looking up into the Senator's
handsome faces, tell them in the most grace-
ful manner they are the very nicest and
best men in all the world, etc.  "O that I
should see what I have seen!" and "such
is life" at the Capitol.  Here, as elsewhere,
those who pander to the caprices of men
are the women who win, while those who
maintain a firm integrity to principle are
generally unheard and unheeded.  It is
enough to make one exclaim in the lan-
guage of the Psalmist, "How long!  O Lord,
how long?"
	The short session of Congress this year,
and the great amount of work to be done,
causes some strong arguments to be used
on questions to be discussed, and this spar-
ring is really entertaining, if one could
only have time to hear it.  But we came
here for a purpose, and consequently cannot
devote much time to any question, except
such as bears upon our own.
 In the Riggs House, where Mrs. Williams
and I are staying, there are great men
stopping, whom we have a good opportunity
of seeing as they sit at dinner, or in the
parlors. Vice-President Wheeler and At-
torney-General Devens take their meals in
the large and elegant dining-room where
we take ours.  There are also Senators and
Representatives from several States; some
have brought their families and some are
here alone.
	Most of the ladies dress very elegantly.
Many of them are very tall, and I have no-
ticed that there are many more elderly
ladies than young ones; also that the mem-
bers of Congress are in a large proportion
men advanced in years, whose locks are
grey, and who are undoubtedly possessed
of great wisdom and large experience in
politics and matters of state.
 The ladies devote themselves to society,
and spend most of their time in making
elaborate toilettes, calling and receiving
and at evening parties in honor of each
other.  Occasionally there is a grand wed-
ding, where the silks, satins, flowers, laces
and velvets abound still more profusely.
	There are two ladies of talent, each highly
gifted in her own art, in the Hotel, who
have both been particularly kind to us.
Mrs. Morrell, a painter and a real artist,
whose pictures are not only beautiful, but
many of them are historical, is one of these.
She speaks French and German, has trav-
eled on the continent, in fact resided in
Paris and other famous cities of the Old
World, and has all the polish of a true
Frenchwoman.  The other is a writer of
rare ability, quite young and very popular,
whose letters from Washington are espe-
cially entertaining.  These two ladies we
shall always remember with pleasure.
							AUNT EM.
	WASHINGTON, Jan. 25, 1879.


; ﻿Mr. and Mrs. Brewer of Wayne County
Kentucky have twenty two children,—an
extensive Brewery.

	Stephen Douglas said: "There is no ap-
peal this side of heaven," from the Su-
preme Court, thus creating a despotism in
this country. Abraham Lincoln said: "There
is an appeal, and the People are the Tri-
bunal to appeal to. Which is right?


RESOLUTIONS

ADOPTDD BY THE ELEVENTH CONVENTION
OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN SUFFRAGE
ASSOCIATION, HELD IN LINCOLN HALL,
WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 9TH AND
10TH, 1879.

	Whereas, in the recent elections for the
popular branch of the National Legislature,
the question of woman suffrage was wholly
ignored by each of the great political par-
ties, even our most zealous friends not risk-
ing a vote in behalf of this principle, and
	Whereas, the result of said elections, in-
stead of being the overwhelming victory for
either party which each anticipated,has been
to more evenly balance them, so that if an
election for the next president should be
thrown into the House of Representatives,
the result may turn upon a financial issue
to which neither of the old parties is com-
mitted, and which is now represented by a
third party:
	Therefore resolved, Tbat we press upon
the National Party the vital question of 
national citizenship secured by constitu-
tional amendment as a question underlying
the financial and all other national issues;
	And further Resolved, That we respect-
fully remind all political parties that we
cannot have honest money until we have
honest men.
	Resolved, That the Forty-Fifth Congress,
in ignoring the petitions of more than three
hundred women citizens of high social
standing and culture asking for the remov-
al of their political disabilities, while
promptly enacting special legislation for
the removal of the political disabilities of
every man who presented to them a similar
petition, furnishes a clear illustration of the
total indifference of this Congress to the
rights of citizens belonging to a class de-
prived of political power.
	Whereas, a Sixteenth Constitutonal
Amendment for Woman Suffrage is now
pending on a tie vote in the House Judici-
ary Committee;—Yeas, Lapham, N. Y.;
Lynde, Wis.; Frye,. Me.; Butler, Mass.;
Conger, Mich.;—Nays, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMahon, O.;
Culberson, Texas;—Absent Harris of Va.,
who declares he has never ihvestigated the
subject;
	Therefore Resolved,That it is the duty
of Harris of Va. to remain absent when a
vote on this question is taken, until he has
given it as much consideration, as if the
rights of all men were therein involved.
	Whereas, as announced by Senator
Blaine, it is the very essence of tyranny to 
count any citizens in the basis of representa-
tion who are denied a voice in their laws
and a choice in their rulers,
	Therefore Resolved, That counting wo-
men in the basis of representation, while
denying them the right of suffrage, is
compelling them to swell the number of
their tyrants and is an unwarrantable usur-
pation of power over one-half the citizens
of this Republic.
	Whereas, in President Hayes' last mes-
sage, he takes a truly paternal review of
the interests of this Republic, both great
and small, from the Army, the Navy and
our foreign relations, to the ten little Indi-
ans in Hampton, Va., our timber on the
western mountains, and the switches of the
Washington railroads; from the Paris Ex-
position, the postal service the abundant
harvests, and the possible bull-dozing of
some colored men in various southern dis-
tricts, to cruelty to live animals, and the
crowded condition of the mumies, dead
ducks and fishes sn the Smithsonian Insti.


[Column 1]
tution; yet forgets to mention twenty mill-
ion women citizens robbed of their social,
civil and political rights;
	Therefore Resolved, That a committee
of three be appointed from this Convention
to wait upon the President and remind him
of the existence of one-half of the Ameri-
can people whom he has accidentally over-
looked, and af whom it would be wise for
him to make some mention iu his future
messages.
	Whereas all of the vital principles invol-
ved in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fif-
teenth constitutional amendments have been
denied in their application to women by
courts, legislatures and political parties;
Therefore Resolved, That it is eminently
logical that these amendments should utter-
ly fail to protect even the male African, for
whom said courts, legislatures and parties
declare they were expressly designed and
enacted;
	And further, Resolved, That thus, ever
above all the short-sighted schemes of poil-
ticians will the inexorable law of justice
bind humanity together and vindicate the 
equil rights of all.
	Resolved, That the Senate Judiciary
Committee, in its report on the bill to allow
women to practice law in the courts of the
United States, in which they declare that
"further legislation is not necessary," evad-
ed the plain question at issue before them
in a manner unworthy of Judges learned in
the honorable profession of the law, and
thereby sanctioned an injustice to the wo-
men of the whole country.
	Resolved, That the judges of the Supreme
Court of the United States, in denying ad-
mission to its bar of Belva A. Lockwood,
who was entitled under the law and under
its rules to admission therat, violated their
oath of office.
	Resolved, That the policy of this govern-
ment in appointing agents to educate and
civilize the Indians, to obtain calico dresses
for squaws and aprons for papooses, and a 
comfortable salary for their own pockets out
of money justly due the Indian tribes, is in
harmony with man's treatment of woman
in appropriating her property, talents, time
and labors, and using the proceeds as he 
pleases in the name of protection.
	Resolved, That the oft-repeated declara-
tion by women, "I have all the rights I
want," is due to the same feeling of intimi-
dation and subserviency to those who feed,
clothe and shelter them (out of their own
unpaid earnings) which prevents the colored
men in the South from expressing an opin-
ion or casting a vote contrary to the wishes
of their former masters, unless the army of
the United States is at hand to protect them
from the consequences.
	Whereas the general government has re-
fused to exercise federal power to protect
women in their citizen's right to vote in the
various States and Territories, it should for-
bear to exercise federal power to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, who have had a
more just and liberal spirit shown them by
Mormon men than Gentile women in the
States have yet perceived in their rulers.
	Whereas the proposed-legislation for the 
Chinese women on the Pacific slope and for
outcast women in our cities, and the opin-
ion of the press that no respectable woman
should be seen in the streets after dark, are
all based upon the assumption that woman's
freedom must be forever sacrificed to man's
license;
	Therefore Resolved, That the ballot in
woman's hand is the only power by which
she can restrain the liberty of those men
who make our streets and highways dan-

[Column 2]
gerous to her, and secure the freedom that
belongs to her by day and by night.
	Resolved, That the National Woman
Suffrage Association urge the women citi-
zens of the United States to send petitions
not merely in names 40,000 strong, but by
the hundreds of thousands to the Forty-
Sixth Congress, asking for a constitutional 
amendment prohibiting the several states
from disfranchising United States' citizens
on account of sex.
	And further Resolved, That we urge each
woman who signs a Sixteenth Amendment
petition to send an individual petition to
the Forty-Sixth Congress, asking for the
removal of her political disabilities, that
the coming Congress may be educated to a 
just recognition of the rights and demands
of women citizens.
	Resolved, That we urge the women citi-
zens of the several states to go before their
own state legislatures during the present
winter with petitions and arguments for
the passage of a resolution urging Congress
to submit to the states the pending Six-
teenth Amendment to protect women citi-
zens in the right to vote.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

	The Vice-President presented the peti-
tion of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, and Susan B. Anthony, of-
ficers of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, praying for the passage of Sen-
ate Joint resolution No. 12, providing for
an amendment to the Constitution of tne
United States protecting the rights of wo-
men citizens, and also that the House Ju-
diciary Committee be relieved from the 
further consideration of a similar resolu-
tion.
	Mr. Ferry.  If there is no objection, I 
ask that, the petition be read at length.
The Vice-President.  The Chair hears no
objection, and it will be reported by the 
Secretary. 
	The petition was read, and referred to 
the Committee on Privileges and Elections,
as follows:
To the Senate and House of Representa-
	tives of the United States in Congress
	assembled:
	Whereas more than forty thousand well-
known men and women, citizens of thirty-
five States and five Territoriers, have peti-
tioned the Forty-fifth Congress, asking for 
an amendment to the Federal Constitution
prohibiting the several States from disfran-
chising United States citizens on account 
of sex; and 
Whereas a resolution providing for such
constitutional smendmen is upon the Cal-
endar, (Senate resolution No. 12, second
session Forty-fifth Congress,) and a similar
resolution is pending upon a tie vote in the 
Judiciary Committee of the House of Rep-
resentatives; and
Whereas the women citizens of tee Unit-
ed States are are joint heirs with men of this
Republic, constitute one-half of the peopl,
and have an inalienable right to an equal
voice with men in the nation's councils
and
	Whereas this Republic is governed by 
opinions, and not by force of arms; and
	Whereas women citizens, being denied

the right to have their opinions counted at
the ballot-box, are compelled to hold all
other rights subject to the favor, passions,
and caprices of men; and 
Whereas in answer to the appeals of so 
large a number of peaceable, law, abiding, 
honorable petitioners, it is just and courte-


ous that the Forty-fifth Congress should ex-
press its opinion and leave its record upon 
this grave question of human rights; There-
fore,
We pray your honorable body to take
from the Calendar and pass Senate resolu-
tion No. 12, (secood session Forty-fifth Con,
gress,) providing for an amendment to the
Constitution protecting the rights of wo-
men citizuns; and
We further pray you to relieve the the
House Judiciary Committee from the fur-
ther cnnsideration of the sixteenth amend-
ment women suffrage resolution brought
to a tie vote in that committee Februaary
5, 1878, that it may be submitted to the 
House of Representatives for immediate
action.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President.
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Corresponding
Secretary.
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman Exec-
utive Committee.


THE WICKED FOXES.

ON THE BILL TO DISFRANCHISE THE WO-
MEN OF UTAH.

A FABLE BY LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
There lived at the West certain Wicked
Foxes who built large Traps in which they
caught great numbers of Foolish Field
Mice.  Now all  other Foxes who had
no Traps pretended a great horror at this,
although every one of them would catch
Field Mice whenever he could Secretly,
and devour them without the least com-
punction.  So the Foxes who had no Traps
assembled together to see how they could
destroy the Traps of the Western Foxes,
and one of Them ably said:-- "We must do
Something to Somebody, because the whole
nation of Foxes is disgraced by these
Traps."  Then another one said:-- "let us
cut off Somebody's Ears!" and they all
applauded the suggestion with admiration.
But when they come to consider whose
ears they should cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox, who had eaten
a Vast Quantity of Mice in his Day, said,
"Cut off the Ears of the Field Mice."
There was great rejoicing over this
wise Proposal, and when one Fox feebly
whispered that as the Western Foxes were
the real criminals, it would be more sensi-
ble to Cut off their Ears, his Companions
all looked at him with scorn.  "Why" said
they, "the Western Foxes are as Big as we
are." No no!  These Field Mice are little
and weak; they cannot hurt Us whatever
we do to them."  So the Foxes solemnly
resolved to cut off the Ears of the Field
Mice in order to destroy the Wicked Traps,
MORAL.--Always hit some one Smaller
than Yourself.


ANNA DICKINSON, at the solicitation of 
friends, has consented to appear again on
the lecture platform, and give, in a series
of lectures, the result of her studies. Miss
Dickenson is said to have consented to this
arrangement with reluctance, fearing it
might be supposed that she had given up
her intention to follow the stage. Her
lectures will be delivered in only the larg-
est cities, beginning in New York, and her
subjects for the series, which will include
four lectures, will be "John of Arc,"
"Henry IV," "Voltaire," and "Danton."
She will be under the management of the
American Literary Bureau—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A PROPHECY.
	The decision of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, and its bearing upon the 
Reynold's case, is calculated to rouse the 
indignation of the Latter-day Saints; and
many express great pity for Brother Rey-
nolds.  Do I pity him?  Not if he is the
man I think he is.  If I was a man I would 
envy his position to-day.  He is the peo-
ple's offering, and their prayers will ascend
up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth,
and the special care of the Almighty will
be over and round about him.  When I
view his case with a prophetic eye, I see
no cause for pity!  I pity the ignorance of 
our opponents and despise their temerity.
Brother Reynolds is guilty of no crime; if 
he suffers it will be for the principles of 
truth and right.  He is the Isaac that Abra-
ham is about to offer up as a sacrafice, and 
as in Isaac's case; a ram will be caught in
the thicket, and Haman (Anti Polygamy)
will hang upon the gallows, erected for
Mordecai, (Polygamy) while Mordecai is 
clothed in costly raiment, and a crown of 
gold placed upon his head, and nations will
bow in homage before him.
ENG.
12th ward S. L. City, Jan. 17, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT]
MY LITTLE HOME.
My little home!  I look around and days
and hours of happiness arise before me, I
recall the hours when my dearly beloved
husband sat and talked with me, or smiled
upon our children, or sang hymns with us
all.  Hours that come not again, save in
remembrance, the smile has faded from his
face and the song of "Sweet rest in Heaven"
has been realized; blessed hours of the past!
They live forever in the memory like the
fragrance of a crushed flower.  Those hours
will never be forgotton, and the memory
of them is often evoked by some slight oc-
curence, and a halo of happiness comes with
it. But then again arises the  memory of
hours of sorrow, at other times, hours of
bitterness of spirit, when death had inva-
ded the household, and life seemed a blank,
save for the comfort of my children.
Gloomy hours, sorrowful hours; but than
God, time has taken the keen edge from
those deep griefs, and I can look back upon
them now without sorrowing.  Here where
memory paints its pictures the happy hours
that I have spent with my children com
trooping before me, though anxious hours
again intervene.  Sunshine and shadow,
chase eacc other.  But all these have en-
deared my little humble home to me.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Jan. 4th 1779.


IT is now generally conceded that woman
is largely the moral teacher of the race:
that, by the sacred office of motherhood,
she becomes the primary instructor of eth-
ics.  But she has consulted Man's text book
of morals, imparting its lessons, age after
age, generation after generation.  Yet in 
this period of her awakening, she discovers
that Man's ethical standards are in great
need of revision; in short, that woman
herself should now largely determine the 
standard and method of moral education
for the race.  This work she will perform,
for the most part, through all womanly
methods in the home-life, and through all
the gracious spheres of her loves and friend-
ships.  She will thus fertilize the roots of
social life with the genius of an unselfish
spirituality. --E. C. BRISTOL.


THE WOLF AND THE CRANE.

A FABLE MODERNIZED FROM AESOP, BY
LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	A Wolf who had got  Bone stuck sn his
throat ran up and down in the greatest
agony, entreating every animal he met to 
relieve him.  A Crane moved by his en-
treaties, and pitying his sufferings, ventu-
red his long neck down the Wolf's throat
and drew out the Bone.  But although the 
Wolf thus owed his life to the Crane, he 
would not confess it, but went about saying
that after all Cranes were but silly crea-
tures; that they would rush into danger
foolishly, and that it was much to his 
credit that he had not bitten off this one's 
head when she had put herself so much 
in his power.
Moral.-Many a man who has owed his life
 to a woman's devotion has thought this no 
reason why he should not speak contempt-
nously of the whole sex.


ANOTHER truth, which is but faintly re-
alized by our civilization, and which wo-
man is pre-eminently fitted to emphasize
is the fact that only moral purity is able to 
perceive the divinity of things.  To see
the gods, we must become their peers.


NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS.
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.
SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
3 Bars for 25 Cents,
Harris' Soap, -- 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) ---35 Cents each
Brooms, ----- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARN, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimere $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS.  Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.
FRENCH HAIR STORE.
Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.        97 Kimball Block.
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE--Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and 
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.
TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price.
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.
Palace of Fasion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
D[--]ires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also a nice
selection in Flowers.  Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes  Country dealers,
please call   Ladies' Hair work in all its branches.  Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--]and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.
WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
TEASDEL'S 
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt 
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET.
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.
John Taylor, Pres't.                   Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the 
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt 
Lake City.  All those who desire to aid home manufac-
tures and at the same time purchase  Boots and Shoes
of the most reliable quality, at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE,
SUPERINTENDENT.
H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1879.


For the EXPONENT.
A YOUNG MISSIONARY TO HIS 
		MOTHER. 

 POETIZED BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Oh! bless thee, bless thee, mother dear,
In love's endearing name
I bless thee, love thee, and revere
Through all--unchanged, the same

	Mother, the mighty waters roll
		Between thy son and thee,
	But still he owns thy sweet control,
		And still thy form can see.

	Supreme of women, thou dost reign
		Within his f[--]al heart-
	And all his joys and sorrs fain
		Would to thine ear impart.

	Yes, think not, O my mother dear,
		I have forgotten thee,
	No! Memory must vacate her sphere,
		And love no longer be,

	Ere I forget thee, mother dear,
		Thou peeress of my heart!
	The thought of thee can wake the tear,
		And sweetest joys impart;

	The thought of thee can win me back
		To Virtue's own bright road,
	If e'er I wander from her track,
		Or from her pure abode.

	Oh! may this sweet, magnetic chain
		Through life extended be;
	It soothes my soul in every pain,
		And holds me true to thee!

	And next to God my mother stands
		Before my mental eye;
	When I obey her sweet commands
		I feel that God is night!

	Then think of me and pray for me,
		By day, by night-in joy,
	In sorrow-I implore of thee
		Recall thine absent boy!
Salt Lake City, Jan. 9, 1879.


[Column 1]

A SKETCH AND THOUGHTS.

	The "new crusade" has inspired many a 
dormant pen to try its skill in defense of 
the principle of plural marriage, and pro-
claim to the world the honest sentiments of 
the "women of Utah." As an American
Citizen—a child of Deseret, born amid the 
hardships incident to the Latter-day Saints,
toiling to make homes in this then barren
desert, I claim the privilege of expressing
my firm belief in the despised, abused, but
still heaven-revealed principle, that is re-
ceiving the unqualified disapprobation of 
the majority of the civilized world. I feel 
highly honored to be one of that "peculiar
people" who dare serve the Lord according
to His revealed will despite the opposition
and ridicule of Christendom. I will draw
a short and truthful sketch of one of the 
"down-trodden women of Utah," who have
excited the sympathy of our less fortunate
sisters. A long and very intimate acquain-
tance justifies the praise I may accord to 
my ideal—yet real woman. She is one of 
the most truly religious persons I ever met;
her high sense of duty to God and faith in 
His promises form striking characteristics,
making her heart a constant wellspring of 
cheerfulness, and friends love to linger near
to feel the sunshine of her social qualities.
Her trials are such as those that fall to 
wives and mothers in general, and added
to a frail body are the duties of public of-

[Column 2]
fice. In her family she reigns as a light
set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, and her
children call her blessed. Perhaps some
who affirm that a woman cannot be con-
tented, much less happy in Celestial mar-
riage, will not credit the fact that this hap-
py, intelligent woman is the first wife
of a number all married to her husband
with her cheerful consent, and welcomed
to her fireside as honorable and loved mem-
bers of the same family. Has true affection
decreased between husband and wife in
consequence of these additions? No, it has
not, for they each feel that their affection is 
built upon the solid foundation of mutual 
confidence, and each honors the other for
their faith and integrity in keeping God's
commands, while she is generous enough
to believe that man's heart is capable of ex-
pansion, which enables him to bestow affec-
tion upon more than one wife, even as a 
mother may love each of her several chil-
dren. How often have I wished that the 
whole world could witness the scenes of 
happiness in which I have participated with 
this family, and I think it would not con-
demn polygamy as being averse to the 
"peace and good order" of any community.
Could you see my ideal woman sitting at
the bedside of a frail, sick one, her hand laid
caressingly upon the frail brow, while her
low, gentle words were spoken and looks
were exchanged which told of deep and 
pure affection that was a fountain of happi-
ness to each—could you have heard a low
sweet voice warble forth two or three charm-
ing melodies at the request of the weary
invalid—could you note the earnest desire
to please, entirely forgetful of self, you
might ask if these were sisters with the 
ties of kindred? No; they are sisters of
Gospel tie, striving unselfishly to bless each
other as the wives of one man. From this 
peaceful scene goes forth the loving com-
panion to officiate in a meeting of her sis-
ters, where her influence is felt for good as
she urges all to lives of righteousness and 
purity, sowing seed to gladden the hearts
of the harvesters in after years, who will
surely reap the reward of the labors now 
being performed.
	From the performance of this duty she
joins the social evening party, only to win 
new laurels of esteem as a blessing and or-
nament to society. Besides visiting the 
sick and administering to the poor, she 
finds time to read good books, to correspond
with friends and even write many articles
in prose and poetry. She has no time and 
no disposition to indulge in morbid fancies
and vain imaginations, producing despon-
dency and dissatisfaction; she chooses to be
useful and happy, and of course succeeds.
	This description is from no over-wrought
fancy; it is a reality to which my feeble,
untried pen has not done justice, because 
there are always many instances of mental
conflict and battles with self, which result
in deeds of true heroism, and are not known
or appreciated by any save that "All-
searching eye," the just Judge above.
	May I ask, Where is the bondage in this 
case? Is such a life, a life of slavery? To
those ladies interested in improving the
condition of Mormon women, whose zeal
and sympathy are worthy of a wider field
of action—relieving those who are in the

[Column 3]
chains of sin and wretchedness in all the
cities of our Union—the victims of the
wickedness and abuse of men, many be-
trayed and abandoned. I ask, Is this not a
nobler work, a higher aim than to separate
families living in peace and comfort, be-
lieving in all sincerity that they are serving
God in the most acceptable way? From
whence springs this desire to disunite and 
send portions of a family adrift, dishonored
and disowned? Could you stand calmly by
and not be conscience-stricken and hear
the cries of thousands of women and chil-
dren, whose condition would be more pitia-
ble than that of widows and orphans, as-
cending to Almighty God against you?
	Would you separate children who play
together in the sweet relationship of brother
and sister? Would you tell women who
have lived in happy companionship for
years, who have watched over each other
in sickness through many a silent midnight
hour, rejoicing with almost equal enthusi-
asm over the birth of each other's children,
and together shedding bitter tears of be-
reavement when they were called heaven-
ward—women who have vowed to each
other, even as did Ruth of old to her
beloved mother-in-law, to share each other's
joys and sorrows together in preference to a 
life spent only for their own interest—that
such devotion and union is an evil course
and an abomination in the sight of God?
Was the Anti-polygamy Circular presented
to me, I would feel like inviting the car-
rier to an inspection of my comfortable
home—tell them of my husband's care and 
tenderness, my unbounded confidence in 
his virtue and honor; I would introduce
my home associates and their children, and 
ask them what they had to offer me in ex-
change for all this? Have they the power
to better our mental, physical and social
condition? We know they have not, so we
will continue to trust in Him who has been-
our unswerving friend in the past.
						OLIVE BRANCH.


BAYARD TAYLOR, born of Quaker parent-
age, in Chester Co., Pennsylvania, January,
11, 1825, died at Berlin, Germany, Decem-
ber 19, 1878--printer, poet, traveler, jour-
nalist, lecturer, novelist, diplomat--man!
In the last character he was greatest of all;
but Bayard Taylor was essentially a poet,
and had he devoted his tremendous ener-
gies solely to the development of his mar-
velous gifts in that direction, would have
been the greatest American poet of the
century. - Ex.
	MR. CUTLER has introduced a bill in the
House of Representatives to repeal section
4708 of the Revised Statutes, and give pen-
sions to widows of soldiers who are re-mar-
ried, or may re-marry.  It also provides
that pensions paid to dependant mothers or
sisters shall continue to be paid whether
they are married or not.  Mr. Cutler wisely
thinks--and thousands of others think with
him--that the pension acts which provide
that pensions shall cease upon the re-mar-
riage of the pensioner are contrary to pub-
lic policy.  The records of the courts in
every great city show it to be true.  We
are glad Mr. Cutler has introduced this bill,
and hope it will pass.--EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	   PROVO CITY, NOV. 21st, 1878.
Minutes of Meeting of the Relief Socie-
ties of Utah Co., held in the meeting House,
Provo City, Sept. 27th, 1878.  Present, the
Presidency of the Stake, Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Zina D. Young, with many of
the officers and members of Relief Socie-
ties of the Country.
	President Abraham O. Smoot announced
the purpose of the call to be an organiza-
tion of the Relief Societies of the County;
therefore the business of the meeting would
be to elect officers of the Stake organization,
consisting of a President, two Counselors,
Recording Secretary and Corresponding
Secretary.  On motion of Pres. Smoot, Sis-
ter E. R. Snow was elected President of
the meeting, and Elder Albert Jones, Sec-
retary.
	After remarks from Sister E. R. Snow
showing the power of organization of the
Sisters to be vested in the Priesthood, as
example, by the action of the Prophet Jo-
seph in the first organization of the Relief
Societies formed by him in Nauvoo, the fol-
lowing organization was effected:
Margaret T. Smoot, President.
Mary John,
Margaret A. Cluff,       Counselors.
Caroline Daniels, Recording Secretary.
Lucy W. Kimball, Corresponding Sec'y.
After the setting apart of the sisters to
their offices by the Presidency of the Stake,
Pres. Smoot briefly addressed the meeting
on the duties devolving upon the members
of the Society, showing that with prompt
and energetic action success would attend
their efforts.
	Pres. Margaret T. Smoot and her counsel-
ors then followed with oppropriate remarks.
Pres. M. T. Smoot announced that the first
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of Utah Stake of Zion would be held
in the Church, Provo City, Saturday, the
9th of November, 1878.  Meeting then ad-
journed.
	The first Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion con-
vened on Saturday, Nov. 9, at 10 a. m.,
Pres. M. T. Smoot presiding.  On the stand
were her Counselors and Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff of Salt Lake City.  There were present
of the presiding-Priesthood, Pres. A. O.
Smoot and Counselors, with a number of
the Bishops and other brethren.
	After singing, Pres. A. O. Smoot made
the opening prayer.  President Mrs. Smoot
stated the meeting to be a Quarterly Con-
ference of the Utah Stake of Zion; she was
pleased to see so many of the sisters pres-
ent.  Called on the Secretary to read the
minutes of former meeting, which were
read and accepted.  The statistical and fi-
nancial report of the different societies were
then read as follows:
Number of members.............................1875
Average attendance...............................  603
Number of meetings held.....................2421
Deseret News and Juvenile Instructor..  205
WOMAN'S EXPONENT......................   89
Total amount of Receipts...........$26,756 78
Disbursements to the poor.......... 11,581 80
To Temple..................................    1,219 71
Meeting House..........................        180 25
Missionary.................................       798 26
Emigration................................        731 53
Silk...........................................         782 95
Home Industries......................        1,874 19
Books......................................         100 30
Building..................................        2,461 38
Sundry disbursements............         1,114 14
Indians...................................        71 94
Legal Fund............................               313 32
E. R. Snow--expenses to Pales-
tine........................................               111 60
Amount on hand, cash and pro-
perty, investments in Co-op
Stores, Factory, &c.................         6,238 20
Wheat on hand.................................1,189 bu.
Cocoons................................................47 lbs.
2 oz. of eggs.
Mulberry trees........................................2,089
Mulberry plantation at American Fork,
number of trees not counted.
After the reading of the reports, Pres.
Mrs. Smoot called on the Presidents of the
different Societies to speak, and each one
gave a verbal report of the Society over
which she presided.  The meeting was
well attended, and each Society repres[--]ted
with but three exceptions.  A good spirit
was in our midst.  After singing and
prayer, adjourned to Feb. 28, 1879.
CAROLINE DANIELS, Recording Sec'y.
The organization of the Tooele Co. Stake
Relief Society took place on the 20th of
Sept., 1878; the first Conference was on
Saturday, Feb. 8, 1879; convened at 10
o'clock a. m. President F. M. Lyman called
the meeting to order.  After the usual
opening exercises, reports were read from
the several wards of the Stake, showing a
very fair condition of the different branches.
There were present on the stand, from Salt
Lake City, Mrs. M. L. Horne, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Mrs. E. S. Taylor; the meeting
was largely attended by sisters from Grants-
ville, E. T. City, Lakeview, St. Johns and 
other places.
	Mrs. Horne gave some instructions to the
Secretaries, and spoke at some length upon
the necessity for progression in woman, and
the value of these organizations in learning
us to use our faculties for the good of our-
selves and others; advised the sisters to lay
a foundation at home in the hearts of their
children for all that is good and honest and
virtuous, seek to possess the Spirit of God
under all circumstances, that we may not
be overcome, for the enemy is always on
the alert.
	Mrs. Jennette Delamare; President of
the Tooele ward, spoke of the unity that
prevailed amongst the sisters, and of the
good advice given by Pres. F. M. Lyman.
Mrs. M. A. Hunter of Grantsville, Mrs.
Anne Steel of Lakeview, and Mrs. Cowley
of E. T. City, each reported her ward.
Mrs. Zina D. Young said the sisters re-
minded her of mothers, who generally
think their own children the best in all the
world. She said we are learning to be or-
derly, so that in time we can go back into
the presence of our Father.  We come
down here and learn by contrast what
heaven is; we have pure spirits committed
to our charge, and if there was ever a time
that we need to be humble and diligent it
is now.  Made some beautiful remarks up-
on our being united and seeking to perfect
ourselves in every good word and work,
and to so train our children that in the
morning of the resurrection we may meet-
them with joy.
 Mrs. E. S. Taylor felt that there is a
marked progress in the young ladies who
attend to their meetings, and that they
will soon be competent to stand side by
side with a companion qualified and fitted
to lead them back into the presence of
God.
	In the afternoon the Young Ladies Asso-
ciation occupied part of the time in reading
reports, after which the ladies expressed
themselves highly pleased with the condi-
tion of affairs, and gave some instructions
for our future observance.
 On Sunday morning the sisters attended
the Sunday School.  In the afternoon, after
singing, prayer and admistering the Sacra-
ment, Pres. Lyman read the memorial that
has been presented to Congress by Mrs. E.
B. Wells and Mrs. Zina Young Williams;
then Counselor James Ure read an account
in the "Herald" of the good work those
ladies had done.  Reports were then read
of the Primary Association, which were
very encouraging.  President Lyman then
nominated a President for the Stake, with
two Counselors, and voted in other officers.
This business being done, Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke with great power and wisdom upon
many things very interesting to the Saints,
suited to both men and women - things to
be in the present and the benefits to be de-
rived in the future, by which we can in-
crease in wisdom and intelligence, and
draw down the blessings of heaven upon
our heads.
	Mrs. M. I Horne rejoiced in seeing so
many of our brethren meet with us, and
felt that we all have the same object--to
build up the kingdom of God.  She spoke
of home industry, the storing of grain, and
a great many other duties binding upon the
Latter-day Saints.  Spoke of Plural Mar-
riage and the need of our minds being
stored with spiritual food, and exhorted us
to set our mark high, and to labor diligently
to attain to a Celestial exaltation, for we
shall most assuredly have to earn it.
 Mrs. E. S. Taylor advised all the young
folks not to depend on father and mother's
testimony, but not to rest until they knew
for themselves that this work is of God.
Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg said this had been a
feast indeed; hoped the sisters would prac-
tice and carry out in their lives the good
things they had heard.  M[--] M. I. Horne
sang a song of Zion.  Pres. F. M. Lyman
appointed the Second Conference to be held
in Grantsville, on the second Saturday and
Sunday in June, and desired to give God
the praise for the very remarkable good
time we had enjoyed together.
Mrs. Mary A. Hunter, of Grantsville, was
set apart for President of the Relief Society
of the Stake; Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg, of
Tooele, and Mrs. Agnes Rich, of Grants-
ville, Counselors; Mrs. Mary A. House of
Grantsville, Secretary; Mrs. Ann Tate of
Tooele, Corresponding Secretary.
Financial Report of Tooele Ward Relief
Society since its organization April 5th,
1870, to Dec. 31st, 1878:
                                    Cash                Property
To the poor..............$ 23 45..................$242 15
Emigration.............. 227 50
Temple.................... 226 85.................       4 00
Home Industries.....   13 40
Books.....................    30 00
Building.................   149 25...............      91 18
On hand.................      20 10..............     233 32
105 bushels of wheat stored,
Statistical Report.
Teachers.........................................................20
Members......................................................174
Average attendance....................................... 40
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.............................. 30
ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


A gracious note from a learned young man
to his sweet-heart, how could she refuse to
mete the approval &c.—"There is to be a
gathering of the — at — in this city
on that interesting occasion, I would be su-
perbly happy to have the admissibility of
your company if it would be agreeable and
mete the approval of your attestation."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		201


TRIBUTE TO SISTER AMANDA SMITH.

Dear Sister Amanda, we meet here to-day,
With hearts full of love, a small tribute to pay
To your worth and nobility, knowing full well
That the whole of the truth only angels could tell.

		*		*		*		*		*		*

You have honored God's laws 'mid oppression and strife,
When mobs in their fury were threat'ning your life,
When husband and loved ones were slain by your side,—
You bore all in meekness, for God was your guide.

		*		*		*		*		*		*

Repeatedly driven from the homes they possessed,
You have willingly shar'd with the sorely oppressed'
Rejoicing that you were deemed worthy to go;
You said "They're my people and my faith I will show.

"I'll follow them even 'mid deserts to roam;
Where'er their abiding place there is my home."
And bravely you traveled o'er mountain and plain.
Determined through all things the right to maintain.

Then yon struggled and toiled to create a new home
Where the wild beast and savage were erst wont to roam,
Rejoicing the while that the Saints were made free
And could worship the Lord in such sweet liberty.

A blessing you've been to the daughters of light,
For your influence ever 'has been for the right;
With words of encouragement cheered many hearts,
The memory of which will never depart.

Your children you've trained in the ways of the Lord,
By example and precept you've taught them His word;
Now they're beacons in Zion, an honor to you,
Beloved by the good for integrity true.

And multiplied thousands will yet speak your praise,
For your trust and obedience to God and His ways;
Like Jesus, your motto has been and is still,
"Not my will be done, but O Father Thy will.

And now we all pray that the blessings of heaven
May rest down upon you "from morn until even,"
May your life be prolonged 'til your work is all through,
Then you be crowned queen with the righteous and true.

				With Love Sincere,
								MARY A. FREIZE.

	The 22d of February last was the Birth-
day of Sister Amanda Smith, when she
reached the goodly age of three score and
ten. A select company of her sisters went
as a surprise party to her house, and carry-
ing with them many good things, as well
as blessings for this aged sister, made the
occasion an enjoyable one.
	It is well known to the Saints that Sister
Smith has passed through much persecution
in times past, which has enfeebled her
health. Her husband and son were both
killed, and another son left for dead, at
Haun's Mill Massacre, in Missouri.


[Column 1]
THE PILGRIM MOTHERS.

WHAT MRS. BLAKE SAYS ABOUT THE NEW
ENGLAND DINNER. NO MENTION MADE
OF PLYMOUTH'S FOREMOTHERS—SENA-
TOR BLAINE'S WANT OF JUSTICE—ROSE
STANDISH IGNORED.

	There was recently given in this city a
grand dinner in honor of the landing of the
Pilgrims and the colonization of New Eng-
land. To this dinner came some two hun-
dred men. At this dinner various speeches
were made, and from the beginning to the
end of the feast there was not a word said
to indicate that women had any existence
in the world, or were in any way concerned
in that famous landing on the bleak Ply-
mouth rock two centuries and a half ago.

THE LADIES IN THE SIDE ROOM.

	It is true that the papers inform us that
after the material elements were disposed
of a few ladies were admitted into a side
room, where they remained throughout the
evening, being regarded, no doubt, by the
gentlemen present, as they sat there with
their elegant dresses and fair faces, as an
agreeable ornament of the occasion, like the

[Column 2]
flowers and the banners. How kind and
generous it was, by the way, to permit these
ladies to come "after the dinner was all
over." Doubtless, those wives and daugh-
ters of the men present eat a simple meal
at home, while their husbands and fathers
were gorging themselves with dainties,
and then meekly accepted not even the
crumbs that were cast from the table, not
even one glass of wine, but were permitted
to sit, hungry and silent, while the men
vaunted themselves and their ancestry.

IGNORING WOMEN.

	It is true that Secretary Sherman in the
course of his speech, as an illustration, said
that "the nation's faith should be like the
chastity of a woman above suspicion," it
must hardly be said, that in presence of
the gentlemen there assembled, he did not
speak of the "chastity of man," since such
a remark would probably have been looked
upon as a personal allusion by every man
present. With this single exception, how-
ever, a diligent perusal of the speeches has
failed to discover the slightest hint of the
existence, past or present, of the female
half of our people. A great deal was said
of the hardy men who colonized the land,
of the struggles of the men who built up
the country, and in reading these after din-
ner efforts one would actually think that a
race of grim masculine creatures had really
settled, populated and adorned New Eng-
land without the aid of a solitary woman.
Mr. James G. Blaine capping the climax of
forgetfulness by speaking of the hardships
endured by the men and declaring that
these "21,000 men were the progenitors" of
a great race! As if even in the matter of
increasing the census and raising families
men were quite independent of all feminine
assistance.

OUR FOREMOTHERS.

	In point of fact these 21,000 men were
hal[-] women; of the 101 persons who landed
from the Mayflower only forty-one were
men, and the hardships, the sufferings, the
devotion of these pilgrim mothers forms
the most touching part of that romance of
the landing of the pilgrims. It was the
wealthy wife of Edward Winslow whose
money enabled him to embark in the May-
flower, while the fair Rose Standish, who
left a noble home to share the hardships of
her husband, deserves a gentle remem-
brance from all who honor womanly fidelity.
Mrs. Carver, who was one of the first victims
of the heroism of seeking freedom in a for-
eign land, while to the sterling qualities of
Ann Brewster the colonists owed much of
their care and energy. Yet not one of those
heroines had the slightest mention from the
men who assembled to do honor to the
memory of that handful of brave men, and
women equally brave: women who, indeed,
sacrificed more than their husbands, inas-
much as home and home-comforts are
dearer and more important to women than
to men, while their frailer natures cause
them to suffer more in enduring hardships
than their more stalwart companions.

THE DAUGHTERS OF THE PILGRIMS.

	They were all forgotten, however, since
women count for so little in the public esti-
mation of men, though important enough
in their private lives! Not only were these
grand mothers of a noble race ignored, but
the great women of to-day, their worthy
descendants, were unmentioned. Invita-
tions were sent to all the distinguished
New England men to take part in the feast,
but the daughters of the Pilgrims were not

[Column 3]
noticed. No woman, whatever her high
achievements, had any recognition. Har-
riet Beecher Stowe and Lydia Maria Child
were not included among the representa-
tives of literature; Harriet Hosmer had no
word of honorable mention in art, and even
"Gail Hamilton," who certainly deserved a
seat beside the brother-in-law whose cause
she has so ably defended—even she had no
invitation.

ABIGAIL ADAM AND MERCY WARREN.

	The women who, in the past, by their
wealth and devotion founded the Plymouth
colony; the women who, like Abigail
Adams and Mercy Warren, adorned by the
lustre of their virtues the history of New
England; the women whose genius to-day
carries its fame to lands which never heard
of most of the men who took part in this
dinner; all were forgotten, and only as a
side show was a handful of well-dressed
ladies permitted to look on, while men ate
and drank and lauded their own and their
male ancestor's virtues. Thus did "the sons
of New England honor Forefathers' Day,"
in the very name of the feast insulting the
daughters of New England and the memory
of their foremothers.
			LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.


R. S. REPORT.

	Quarterly Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of the Juab County Stake, held Jan.
20th, 1879. Members of the Board all
present, also Patriarch J. G. Bigler, Bishop
Andrews and Elder Kendall. Meeting
opened by singing and prayer. Minutes of
last Conference read and accepted, also Fi[-]
nancial reports. The officers of the Stake
were presented and unanimously sustained,
also the local officers of Nephi, Mona and
Levan.
	Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough said: "I am
thankful for the opportunity of meeting
with you and am pleased to see so many of
my sisters here; I am also pleased that the
brethren have favored us with a visit. I
with my sisters am trying to the best of my
ability to promote the interest of the Soci-
ety. The sisters are doing a great work
feeding the poor, comforting and waiting
on the sick, clothing the living and the
dead, and I feel to bless them. I wish my
sisters who understand silk culture would
speak on that subject." Solicited the aid
of the brethren in building a granary to
store grain in. "I pray God that I may be
counted worthy to enjoy a celestial glory;
it was for that object that I came to this
land and am trying to work out my salva-
tion in connection with you all, which may
God grant for Christ's sake. Amen."
	Mrs. Eliza Sommerville, Pres. of Mona
Society, said: "I am pleased to meet with
you, and gladly embrace the opportunity of
representing the Mona Society. Since the
new organization of the Society by Pres.
Teasdale we are doing well; our meetings
are well attended and a good spirit pre-
vails."
	Bishop Andrews spoke very encouraging-
ly, and said, he would do all in his power to
aid in building the granary. Bros. Bigler,
Kendall and Allen gave some excellent in-
structions.
	Singing. Patriarch J. G. Bigler blessed
the Society, by virtue of his office, and dis-
missed the meeting.
		A. GOLDSBROUGH, Pres.
		M. PITCHFORTH, Sec'y.


202		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
	THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	We have no wise to tire our readers by dwell-
ing too much or too ardently upon our visit to
Washington, but as we have never given a 
summary of the proceedings of the convention
in order, and as it is a subject in which women
who hold the franchise should have a deep in-
terest, we propose now to take the convention in
order, commencing with the preliminary meet-
ing of the Executive Committee, held at Mrs. B.
A. Lockwood's on Wednesday evening, Jan. 8.
At this meeting the programme for two days
and evening sessions was all arranged.  Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman of Executive
Committee read the call for the Convention,
and after a thorougu discussion upon the sub-
ject in question the following committees were
appointed, &c.:  Committee on Credentials,
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Caroline B. Winslow; Committee on Resolu-
tions, Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Emmeline B. Wells, Helen M. Cool[--]
and Belva A. Lockwood; Committee on Fi-
nance, Ellen Clarke Sargent, Helen M. Slo-
cum, Julia B. Dunham, Zina Young Williams
and Ellen H. Sheldon; Committee on Pro-
gramme, Susan B. Anthony, Lilliee Devereux
Blake, Marilla M. Ricker.  Morning session—
Opening address, Elizabeth Cady Stanton; re-
port of the Committe on Frinance. Afternoon ses-
sion—Speeches by Lillie Devereux Blake; Eliza-
beth Oakes Smith, Lavinia C. Dundore and
Caroline B. Winslow.  Evening session—
Speeches from Emmeline B. Wells and Susan
B. Anthony.  Friday morning—General dis-
cussion on Utah and Wyoming—United States
Rights vs. States Rights, to be discussed by
Mesdames Gage, Stanton, Williams, Smith and
others. Afternoon session—Speeches by Helen
M. Slocum, Zina Young Williams and Sara
Andrews Spencer.  Evening session—Speeches
by Belva A. Lockwood, Frederic Douglas and
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	This was the original programme as laid out
by the Executive Committe; and here let us
say that this committee know how to make
the most of their time, and possess in a large
degree the requisite qualifications for dispatch-
ing business in an orderly and systematic man-
ner.  Women who travel hundreds and thou-
sands of miles for the sole purpose of laboring
in these Conventions are not the ones to waste
must time in dilly-dallying.
	The first morning of the convention was
very dark, and the rain literally poured down
in torrents, the wind blew furiously, and it
seemed as if the elements had combined to-
gether to show their disrespect.  However, a
tolerably fair audience was convened in Lin-
coln Hall just before eleven o'clock.  Mrs.
Stanton, who presided with dignity and grace,
called the convention to order.  Upon the plat-

[Column 2]
form were Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of Tenna-
ny, New Jersey, President, Susan B. Anthony,
of Rochester, New York, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Editor of the "National Citizen," from Fay-
etteville, N. Y., Sara Andrewa Spencer, of
Washington, Editor of "Woman's Words,"
Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, connect-
ed with the "Daily Evening Telegram," Caro-
line B. Winslow, M. D., Editor of the "Alpha"
at Washington, Helen M. Slocum and Helen
M. Cooke, of New York City, Belva A. Lock-
wood, lawyer of Washington, Marilla M. Rick-
er, of New Hampshire, and Lavinia C. Dun-
dore, of Maryland, also lawyers, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, the poet and author, from North
Carolina, Julia Brown Dunham, of Iowa, Han-
nah M. Sheppard, of Washington, Misses Julia
and Rachel Foster, of Philadelphia, Mrs. Zina
Young Williams, of Utah, and your humble
servant Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City.  Many delegates
from other States and Territories were scattered
through the audience.  From time to time
during the two days' session many other dis-
tinguished ladies and a few gentlemen (woman
suffrage advocates) were seated upon the plat-
form.
	First business was the reading of the call by
Miss Anthony, with a few appropriate com-
ments.  Next Mrs. Lockwood read the list of
the committees; these were confirmed and the
programme adopted.  Mrs. Stanton prefaced
her address by saying the heavens were weep-
ing over woman's wrongs, and the weather was
in keeping with the woman's rights conven-
tion, to which we would have added and while
heaven wept for woman Old Boreas, king of
the wind, with mighty power blew a loud
blast, strong and deep, for the lords of creation.
Mrs. Stanton then proceeded to deliver her elo-
quent speech in the most easy and graceful
manner.  She seems to possess in a great de-
gree the power of pleasing her hearers, though
she tells them many plain, unvarnished truths,
yet it is all done without the least apparaent de-
sire to offend the most sensitive. Mrs. Stanton
has not in the least degree the quality of sharp-
ness, not perhaps in its usual significance, but
in the sense in which it is applied to women
speakers and lecturers.  She commenced by
saying that for eleven consecutive years women
citizens of the United States had been in the
habit of assmebling in Washington to ask that
the principles of our government may be car-
ried out, making women equal with men before
the law.
	At some future time we will publish some of
these speeches in full, that our readers may
have the benefit of the expressed opinions of
some of these leading ladies in the woman
suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer next presented
the resolutions, which we published in our last
issue.  Upon motion the resolutions were tak-
en up separately to be discussed and voted up-
on.  Objections to some points were made by
some of the ladies and gentlemen present,
which occupied the morning hour.
	In the afternoon a much larger audience was
present.  Mrs.  Lillie Devereux Blake was the
first speaker.  Mrs. Blake is shrewd, witty and
sarcastic; she is well suited to the platform,
indeed she is perfectly at home in addressing
an audience.  Her subject was "The Propriety
of Abolishing Women."  She argued that
since woman had so often been ignored she
might as well be abelished, and all further
trouble saved by taken them to the end of the
world and dropping them off.  Judging by
present indications she thought it better to
abolish women altogether, and added that per-
haps some ingenious Yankee would invent a

[Column 3]
new kind of woman that would suit men bet-
ter; she said in this connection that the suc-
cessors of the noble progenitors of the race
spoken of by Mr. Blaine surely will be able to
hatch a new being without the help of woman.
(Loud bursts of applause.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith read an article
entitled "Biology and Woman's Rights." She
reads extremely well, has a very sweet, low
voice and a charmning manner; her reading was
frequently applauded.
	Mr. Frederic Douglas, by invitation of Mrs.
Stanton, made a few remarks suitable to the
occasion, the audience manifesting their plea-
sure of applauding him freely.
	Mrs. Stanton then announced as a committee
to wait upon President Hayes and inform him
of the existence of 20,000,000 women citizens in
the United States, which fact he failed to rec-
ognize in his recent message. Mrs. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage and
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Miss Anthony then
made some very clever, cutting and humorous
remarks.  Mrs. Dundore then addressed the
convention. In her remarks she said hers was
a guerilla warfare, she was bound by no parties
or methods.
	Evening session.  The rain poured in tor-
rents, the wind blew fiercely, and yet the hall
was crowded in every part.  Mrs. Wells, of
Utah, was the first speaker.  Miss Anthony
followed, delivering her very celebrated lecture,
"Bread and the Ballot."  She is a very earnest
woman and impresses every one with her indi-
viduality.  She was frequently applauded, and
certainly made some strong arguments and
good hits.  Mrs. Wells made a few more re-
marks.
	Friday morning.  Mrs. Blake made a few
remarks, and introduced Mrs. Helen M. Cooke,
who read the report of the suffrage association
of New York city.
	Dr. Cora Bland then spoke on the growth of
liberty, and began with the assertion that his-
tory teaches us in all ages that man is a natural
brute. After this there was some discussion
upon the resolutions, and Mrs. Gage stated
that Pres. Hayes had mentioned one woman
in his message, because she was the widow of 
some man.
	Mrs. Spencer related the interiew with the
President when Mrs. Sargent and herself had
called upon him asking him to say a good word
for women in his first message, and again in
the second.  They then asked if the bill re-
moving the poltiical disabilities of women
should pass, would he approve it.  "Probably."
"Would he indicate his friendliness in his mes-
sage?"  He could not tell; it was a huge ques-
tion, requiring great deliberation.  Mrs. Spen-
cer concluded by saying, "You see he did not
know what to say."  Whereupon Miss Antho-
ny remarked that men didn't know which
was the safe side of the fence.
	Hon. A. G. Riddle, a Washington lawyer,
then addressed the convention; his subject was
suffrage, and he spoke to the point.  He closed
by saying that the emancipation of woman
was as inevitable as any other fixed fact that is
foreshadowed.
	Mrs. Stanton made some remarks upon her
labors at the beginning of the movement; and
her husband's protest, Lucretia Mott, the sweet
Quaker lady, saying, "Now, Elizabeth, don't
thee make the whole thing ridiculous by say-
ing that the women want to vote, I beg thee."
She asked Fred Douglas to urge the resolutions
as she had not then learned to put three words
together before an audience, and the resolu-
tion was carried.
	Marshall Douglas then came forward and
gave a brief account of the first woman's con


vention. At the close he asked what he would
have been without the ballot. By it he was
made Marshall of the the District of Columbia,
and then recited in an impressive manner a 
poem upon liberty. Mrs. Zina Young Williams
of Utah was then introduced, and proceeded
to address the audience. Mrs. Wells and Mrs.
Spencer, each made a few remarks and the
morning session adjourned.
			To be continued. [handwritten] E. B. [---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		203


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

<waitd upon="" herself,="" keeping="" no="" servant,="" choosing="" to="" do="" her="" own="" work..'="" she="" has="" ad-="" ministered="" as="" preistess="" for="" many="" years="" in="" the="" “bold’s="" house.'="" travels’from="" place="" 'pface?fas="" duty="" calls="" attend="" meetings="" and="" conferences.="" <?f="" the,="" sisters="" all="" various="" ijocalitles="" territory,="" .never="" refusing..="" when="" it="" isposlblejfor="" go.="" .="" we="" feel="" con-="" aden="" tour="" will="" join="" withms.="" publicly="" .r="" expressing="" our="" gratitude="" this="" dearly)="" beloved="" r="" sister,="" wishing="" more-years="" of="" -i="" -="" usefulness="" and.="" actives="" work="" as;="" a="" leader="" among="" women="" tha="" batter-day'saints.="" y-="" onnqbsdayfeb.="" 27,we="" ahendecllhe="" joint="" g="" conference,="" earmipgton="" of,="" young="" men’s="" mutual="" improvent="" associations,="" badles="" improvement="" associations="" davis="" co.="" stake,="" in-="" company="" with="" pres-="" eliza="" r.="" snow="" elder="" junlps="" f.="" wells.="" the.young="" reports="" w.erp="" mad?,="" morning="" roberts,="" who="" presides-over="" y.="" m.="" i.="" a.="" that="" conducted="" meeting;="" there="" wasinot="" large="" attendance.="" after="" singing="" prayer="" jrom="" va-="" rious="" branches="" association="" were="" read="" by="" i="" secretary.="" presidents="" several="" reported="" verbally="" condition="" pf="" their="" respective="" then="" junius="" wells="" president="" central="" com-="" mittee="" x.="" a.,="" occupied="" time="" an:="" interesting="" discourse,="" giving1="" instruction="" exhorting="" peoplp.="" is="" very="" pleasing="" speaker,="" an;excellent="" :="" v‘voice,="" good="" flow="" language;="" in,="" short="" he="" winning,="" attractive="" graceful="" speaking.="" afternoon="" mra.nancya,clark?8uper-="" intendent="" yoiihg="" ladies="" x)avi3,="" co.,="" presided.="" county="" report;.,="" "="" officers,="" aggregate....="" .,.,..63="" -members..................="" ,......,..728="" (total,.[="" 791"="" average="" aupndancer="" tayerage="" hot="" reported.="" are="" generally="" under="" direction="" a;programme="" committee.="" reading="" mostly="" consists="" lh="" standard="" church="" works,="" woman’s="" exponent="" an="" d:juye-="" nile="" instructor.="" oho="" library="" id="" owned="" tiie="" ladies.="" 2207="" bible="" verses="" have="" been="" tbp-ihelnbers="" during="" quarter...="" ;kf'="" v.r="" 1="" donated="" a'ccuinulidedt.!,,..="" j(="" onhanci....',....="" -29="" 50="" '‘i="" l="" ja="" -j0="" iriopcrtyio="" u="">	RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.—The secretaries
of the various branches of the Society of this
Stake, are respectfully requested to send in
their reports to the EXPONENT Office before
the 15th of March, 1879. By order of

			M. ISABELLA HORNE, President.
			E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

	NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.—The Relief Socie-
ty is increasing in importance and usefulness
in the work of the Latter days, and for this
reason it should be the ambition of every sec-
retary in every ward in this Stake to prepare
and furnish to the Relief Society Secretary of
of the Stake, proper and business-like reports
invariably four days before the Quarterly Con-
ference, so as to enable her to prepare and cor-
rect her report to present before the general
Quarterly Conference. It seems impossible to 
do so when several of the wards are not heard
from, which has been the case heretofore.
	It is very important that the Secretaries at-
tend to this responsible duty. They will please
send their reports for the last quarter address-
ed to the Relief Society Secretary for the
Stake, in care of Mrs. Wells, Editor of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, before the 15th of March.
						E. HOWARD, Sec'y.

MISS ELIZA R. Snow, President of Latter-day
Saint Women's Organizations left Salt Lake
City Wednesday morning, Feb. 5th, to visit
the different organizations of Weber Co. and
assist in organizing Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations in various places.
	Ogden has recently been divided into four
wards, and Miss Snow, while there, assisted
the Bishops in their respective wards and Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, President of the Relief Socie-
ties in Weber Co. to organize Y. L. M. I. and 
Primary Associations in each of these wards.
Miss Snow and Mrs. Richards afterwards visit-
ed Lynne, Marrlott, Riverdale, Mound's Fort,
Huntsville and West Weber; and assisted the
Bishops in organizing a Primary Association
in each of these respective settlements. At
Riverdale these sisters also assisted the Bishop
in organizing a Y. L. M. I. A. Miss Snow 
was absent over two weeks, and held during
that time, seventeen meetings, at all of which
she occupied considerable time in speaking,
exhorting and giving instruction to the sisters
in their various duties and callings; her visits
are of great benefit, and her age, experience,
and her illustrious example of Christian life
strengthen the force of her advice and have a 
bearing upon all her labors, which 
makes it more effective. Our sisters should
uphold and sustain "Sister Eliza" as she is af-
fectionatly designated, that she may live long
to direct and counsel the mothers in Israel, and
daughters of Zion. On the 21st day of Jan.
she attained to the advanced age of seventy-
five, her life stretching over three quarters of 
a century, still active mentally and physisic-
ally, waits upon herself, keeping no servant,
choosing to do her own work. She has ad-
ministered as Preistess for many years in the
"Lord's House." She travels from place to 
place, as duty calls her to attend the meetings

[Column 2]
and conferences of the sisters in all the various
localities in the Territory, never refusing
when it is po[-]sible for her to go. We feel con-
fident our sisters will join with us in publicly
expressing our gratitude to this dearly beloved
sister, and wishing her many more years of
usefulness and active work as a leader among
the women of the Latter-day Saints.

	ON THURSDAY, Feb. 27, we attended the joint
Conference in Farmington of Young Men's
Mutual Improvent Associations and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations
of Davis Co. Stake, in company with Pres.
Eliza R. Snow and Elder Junius F. Wells.
The young men's reports were made in the
morning. Elder Roberts, who presides over
the Y. M. M. I. A. in that Stake, conducted
the meeting; there was not a large attendance.
After singing and prayer reports from the va-
rious branches of the Association were read by
the Secretary. The presidents of the several
branches reported verbally the condition of
their respective Associations, and then Elder
Junius F. Wells, President of Central Com-
mittee of Y. M. M. I. A., occupied the time in
an interesting discourse, giving instruction
and exhorting the young people. Elder Wells
is a very pleasing speaker, has an excellent
voice, a good flow of language, in short he is
winning, attractive and graceful in speaking.
In the afternoon Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, Super-
intendent of the young ladies of Davis Co.,
presided. County report;
Officers, in the aggregate..........................  63
Members...... ..............................................728
								      ——
Total								791
Average attendance and average meetings not
reported. Meetings are generally conducted
under the direction of a programme committee.
The reading mostly consists in reading standard
Church works, WOMAN'S EXPONENT and Juve-
nile Instructor. One library is owned by the
young ladies. 2207 Bible verses reported to
have been read by the members during the
quarter.

Donated and accumulated......................$476 54
Disbursed...................................................  447 17
On Hand.....................................................     29 50
Property.....................................................     13 25
Wheat.........................................................124 bu.

The Primary Association of Farmington was
represented by its President, Mrs. Aurelia S.
Rogers. The presidents of Young Ladies' So-
cieties each reported verbally, and the Super-
intendent spoke and prophesied many good
things to the young in Zion. Pres. E. R.
Snow made some truly good remarks, and we
talked a little about our visit to Washington.


OBITUARY

	At Marriottsville, Weber County, U. T. Feb.
4th, 1879. of Typhoid fever. Annie daughter
of Simon F. and Turbor Halvorson aged 17
years. Sister Annie was a girl of amiable dis-
position, possessing excellent traits of charac-
ter, she was a teacher in our Sunday School,
and an efficient member of the Y. L. M. I. A.
She was above reproach, and was respected by
all. The funeral services were conducted by
Bishop James Richie and Counselors at the
residence of her parents in a very impressive
manner, after which almost the entire ward
followed her rem[-]ins to their last resting
place, in Ogden City Cemet[-]ry. Her death
has cast a gloom [-]ver our neighborhood. May
she rest in peace.—Com.

	Died at Marriottsville, Weber County, U. T.
19th of Jan. 1879. Mrs. Martha Wayman aged


89 years 7 months and 11 days. Deceased was
born June 8th, 1789 at Fedstanton Hunting-
don shire England. She was baptized in the
year 1850, and from that time her house was
ever open to the Elders of our faith, feeding
and lodging them, and assisting to the utmost
of her ability to advance the cause of truth.
She came to Utah in 1868, and has finished her
earthly career in good faith, and buoyant hopes
of a glorious resurrection. Her remains are en-
tered in the Ogden City Cemetery.

	DIED, at her residence South Cottonwood,
of consumption, after a lingering illness, Mary
Jane, wife of Robert Maxfield; and daughter
of Jane Spencer and Daniel S. Cahoon. De-
ceased was born in Nauvoo, Ill., on the 8th da[-]e
of February A. D. 1845, and died on the 17th
of February, 1879, leaving a husband, two chil-
dren and numerous relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was a member of the Re-
lief Society, a faithful wife, an affectionate
mother, and a true saint. In the family circle
her example was worthy of imitation, and her
name will ever be held in honorable remem-
brance by all who knew her.
		MARY CAHOON.


ANY ONE ordering the "National Citizen"
with "Woman's Words" will be sent both
papers one year, postage paid, for $1.50,
thus saving fifty cents on the two subscrip-
tions.
	MINORITY REPORT ON SIXTEENTH
AMENDMENT.—The minority report of Sen-
ate Committee on Privileges and Elections
in favor of a sixteenth amendment to the
Constitution, protecting women citizens in
the right of suffrage, was made Saturday
morning, February 1st, by Hon. George F.
Hoar, of Mass. It had been waiting only
for the signature of Senator Cameron, of
Wisconsin, who was absent.
	The report will therefore be presented to
the Senate the first week in February. It
occupies about thirty-five pages of manu-
script, and will probably make about ten
pages of octavo print. It will be electro-
typed at the Government Printing Office,
and, with Senator Wadleigh's adverse re-
port, will be added to the pamphlet of ar-
guments before Senate Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections in behalf of a sixteenth
amendment by delegates to the Tenth
Washington Convention of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, January 11th
and 12th, 1878.
	The volume will thus consist of about
sixty pages, and will be standard material
for carrying on Woman Suffrage campaigns
until the victory is won.
	The friends of woman suffrage cannot
more effectually advance the interests of
women than to send money to the Treasurer
of the National Association, Mrs. Ellen
Clarke Sargent, 1733 De Sales street, Wash-
ington, D. C., to print this material. While
ten thousand copies could be immediately
used to advantage in preparing friends of
woman suffrage for an intelligent advance
upon the Forty-sixth Congress, for want of
means only one thousand copies can now be
printed. Thus at every step of this reform
want of money bars the work. Single
printed copies of the minority[-]report only
will be mailed to any one who encloses a
stamped envelope, properly addressed to
the applicant, to Mrs. Sara Andrews Spen-
cer, Spencerian Business College, Washing-
ton, D. C., after February 20th.—Ex.


204		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. C. FOWLER WELLS.

	The many instances which the world af-
fords of women who have excelled in art,
science, literature and business, prove be-
yond the possibility of doubt, that clear
perceptions, masterly intellects and execu-
tive ability are not peculiarly masculine
qualities.
	The lady whose sketch is here given has
not only threaded her way successfully amid
the intricacies and difficulties of a new and 
undeveloped science, but has competed fa-
vorably with the best class of men in con-
ducting a large and complicated business.
	Mrs. Wells is the sister of O. S. and L.
N. Fowler, the distinguished phrenologists,
and is herself, one of the ablest exponents
of that science the age has yet produced.
	Had it been a chemical laboratory which
her brothers established, or anything bear-
ing the stamp of antiquity upon it, her taste
in building up from penury a successful
business would have been much lighter
than it has been with the much questioned
science.
	The Fowler brothers established their
Phrenological Cabinet in New York in 1835.
They opened a branch office in Philadelphia,
and commenced the publication of their
journal in that city in 1838.
	They gave their attention largely to the 
development of their new science and the
editing of their magazine; while the sub-
ject of this sketch, who joined them in 1837,
looked carefully after the details of the
business.
	In 1842 they removed to New York, the
senior partner coming in advance, leaving
only a young and inexperienced woman at
that time to attend to the shipment of goods
and the closing up of the details of busi-
ness in Philadelphia.
	On her arrival in New York she found
her brother seriously ill; and before he
could again attend to business their stereo-
type plates and many other things belong-
ing to their peculiar business were seized,
and would have been sold at auction; as
would also the copyrights, but for the pre-
sence of mind and business sagacity of their
feminine business manager, who averted
the calamity.
	A year later she had occasion to leave
New York for a few weeks, and on her re-
turn found their office placarded "to let."
Before night, she had the obnoxious placard
removed from the door, and papers made
out leasing the premises for five years.
Handbills were immediately printed and
distributed, announcing lectures every eve-
ning is the same building, with both public
and private examinations of heads; and at
the end of a week when they counted their
cash, they had two hundred dollars above
expenses.
	Four other times in the history of the 
business has the office been about to close,
when her business sagacity and quiet deter-
mination have averted the calamity, and
under her management, as is a well-known
fact, has finally been built up one of the 
most successful publishing houses of the 
city; there, being not more than six that
rival it, either in capital or the number and 
extent of their publications.
	At the beginning of the panic in 1873 the 
firm was wholly free from any business en-
tanglements; but of course no publishing
house could meet the financial disasters of
the last five years and not suffer loss. They
still occupy one of the handsomest stores
on Broadway and are entirely solvent.
These details of business have been en-
tered into with some minuteness to show
how woman's skill has, in thousands of in-

[Column 2]
stances, saved a waning business, and how
it might have done so in many more were
they not so effectually ruled out of business
departments by the domination of sex on
the one hand, and their own easy subjection
on the other.
	Mrs. Wells was born in Cohocton, N. Y.,
August 14, 1814, making her now in her
sixty-fifth year.
	The remarkable skill with which she has
carried youthful vigor clear across life's me-
ridian, and maintained both the mental and
physical strength of early life even to that
advanced period is a strong argument in fa-
vor of the hygienic system taught through 
their extensive library.
	Another practical demonstration of the
effect of correct habits is found in the fact
that Mrs. Wells was born of a consumptive
mother, wh[-] died of that lingering disease
when she was only five years of age. But
the introduction of the water cure treat-
ment, a thorough system of hygienic living
or some unknown cause; have averted the
usual consequences which are so apt to fol-
low in such cases; and not one of the Fowl-
er family have since died of consumption
or ever shown a symptom thereof. The
youngest members are now over forty, and
all are hale, hearty and youthful for their
years. Mrs. Wells says that she expects to 
live till she is ninety, in the enjoyment of 
all her faculties.
	At the age of thirty she was married to
Samuel R. Wells, who, the year following,
became a partne[-] in the firm. His atten-
tion was first attracted to phrenology by ob-
serving a chart that had been marked for a
friend by Charlotte Fowler.
	He sought out the lady, made her acquain-
ance, and from that time became a devoted
disciple of the new science.
	Her very happy domestic life, and sym-
metrical development of character, show
that it is not fatal to woman's happiness to
remain single a few years longer than they
are generally wont.
	The "Phrenological Journal" has been
from the beginning uncompromising in its
advocacy of woman's equality. For a num-
ber of years before the Seneca Falls Con-
vention in '48, it had ably and fearlessly
sought for woman's recognition, an equality
of rights in all things. From that time
till the prosent never has a volume appeared
which has not contained one or more special
article looking to the elevation and better
education of woman.
	Mrs. Wells was one of the original foun-
ders of the Woman's Homeopathic College
of New York, and for twelve years one of 
its trustees.
	While she has acted a conspicuous part
in all the public enterprises of the day af-
fecting woman's advancement, by far the
larger share of her benevolence has con-
sisted in private charities. It has been her
aim to truly benefit those whom she be-
lieved worthy of help, without making any
public exhibition of either their necessities
or her own benevolence.
	Many a woman who reads this sketch
will remember with gratitude when the
kindness and benevolence of Mrs. Wells
was just the needed link in the chain that
enabled them to reunite their shattered for-
tunes, or the added plank that bridged
some fearful chasm of financial or social
disaster. Her labors have always been of
the unassuming kind, but whatever she has
put her hand to has been done with a quiet
determination that has seldom known de-
feat. In April, 1875, her husband, after a 
brief illness of but few days, was taken
from this world, in what seemed the prime
of a useful life.

[Column 3]
	Both of her brothers had previously with-
drawn from the firm, and thus was left en-
tirely to her care the responsibilites of a 
large and complicated business, and that,
too, at the most trying period of all classes
of commercial enterprise ever known in
the world's history.
	The ability with which she has conducted
its affairs amid the financial breakers that
have wrecked so many business crafts on
every hand, attest her skill, and add an-
other gem to woman's coronet of praise.—
C. A. Blodgett.					Ex.


EVENTS OF THE PRESENT DAY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We live in an age of wonderful events,
whether the people will believe it or not;
the vision of some is very opaque. they can
not or will not see anything very uncom-
mon in the marvelous events of the 19th
century--others, who watch the "signs of
the times," whose eyes are open, because
the vision of their mind is clear, have the
key that unlocks the cypher! and many
there are of that number. We hear of
"wars and rumors of wars," of fire and pes-
tilence, yes, of the most fearful kind. We
have seen empires overturned and sove-
reigns dethroned, and a few months ago
the Queen of England made Empress of
India! Though she has long had immense
possessions there, no one dreamed of
such a thing. Thirty years ago a musing,
far-seeing young mind, hid up in compara-
tive obscurity, wrote a book; he suggests a
policy for the then young Queen of Eng-
land; he elaborates the subject, shows a
neccessity for it. The book is not read by
the mass, it is "too dry, too visionary;" the
writer shows he believes in present revela-
tion, that he waits, watches for it! And
who will believe such nonsense in this en-
lightened age? He wrote other books, they
were watched and criticized by the "Litera-
ti;" there is something in them so unique,
so original, minds of strong calibre feel
there is in them an under current, a gulf-
stream if you please, that the common mind
does not see or realize; the policy he sug-
gests in his first book, thirty years ago, is
in these words: "Let the Queen of England
collect a great fleet; let her stow away all
her treasures, bullion, gold plate and pre-
cious arms, be accompanied by all her court
and chief people, and transfer the seat of
her Empire from London to Delhi! There
she will find an immense Empire ready
made, a first rate army and a large revenue;
we will acknowledge the Empress of India
as our Suzeram, and secure for her the
Levantine coast."
	He now leaves book making; he works
to become a Statesman; he seeks to enter
Parliament, he meets with great opposition;
he speaks on the Hustings; he attracts all 
ears; his language is glowing, fervid and
electrifying, his voice magnetic, and he is
felt to be a rising planet! He speaks in the
House of Commons, he is ridiculed; his
hearers forget to be gentlemen. He rises
and is put down, rises and is put down; at
last he calmly sits down, saying: "Gentle-
man, you will not hear me now, but a time
is coming when you shall hear me." Through
all he rises--he is the first of his race that
ever entered Parliament--he rises higher,
higher, till he stands Premier of England,
with the entire confidence of his Sovereign!
He stands to-day a power behind the Throne,
God being the power behind both the
Throne and the man. His first grand act
is to realize his dream of thirty years ago!


He proposes to the nation to make the
Queen Empress of India, as a necessary
policy to meet the times.  The influential
part of the nation, as usual, oppose the
measure—they feel it will compromise their
honor—but it is carried.  Queen of Eng-
land and Empress of India are her titles to-
day!  This is only a tithe of all he has ac-
complished in staying the hand of Prussia,
without shedding one drop of blood.  Is
not all this a subject for meditation when
we ponder on present events?
	Now I will come nearer home.  If the
Lord will help me, I will at some future
time try to give a brief poetical history of
the work of the Latter days.  At present I
wish to look at an event which twenty, per-
haps ten years ago would have been thought
impossible, and by some it would have
been ridiculed; to-day it is an event of the
past, and seems to have been all in the pro-
gramme.  It was mooted something in this
way: Mrs. Spencer, one of the prominent
women in the Woman Suffrage movements
wrote to Mrs. E. B. Wells, imperatively:
"Come and take your hitherto vacant chair
in the Woman's Suffrage Convention; come,
or our words concerning you will fall to the
ground. Come!"  Accordingly, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, accompanied by Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams, went and took part in the Convention
at Washington.  They go! are received by
the ladies as sisters.  President Hayes also
receives them with all the kindness and
affability of the true gentlemen; he talked
freely with them, and said he wished them
to put their statements in writing, and
let him have it, that he might not for-
get in the press of business all they had
told him.  He was most kind, saying:  "Tell
me what I can do for you."  The "Golden
Sceptre" was indeed held out to them at
every interview, and he himself fetched
Mrs. Hayes and introduced them to her,
and left her with them, not fearing the
least contamination, or perversion of her
mind or morals from association with the
women from Utah, and both plural
wives!  All honor to the President of the
United States of America and his true-
hearted wife! one day he will rejoice that
his feelings as a man and a gentleman over-
came all prejudice and bigotry, and enabled
him to receive them as sister women by
their brother man.  Mrs. Hayes also had
the very spirit of her husband, and treated
them with all the freedom and liberality
which ever springs from true nobility.  She
took them over the Executive Mansion
herself, with all ease and affability.  God
bless Mrs. Hayes, and may He grant her
her hearts desires in righteousness before
Him!
	Is not this an event, my sisters, in the
annals of our Church?  To me there is more
in it than meets the eye of those who look
only upon the surface of things.  God works
by instruments, sometimes the weakest as
a common observer would think, but in His
hands they become powerful, because they
are content to be "as clay in the hands of
the potter."  God will make such mighty.
They were received with the kindest
deference, and obtained interviews with
men of influence; this was true polite-
ness, for they had come from afar to
present the cause of their people.  They
spoke freely and I have no doubt wise-
ly and well; they have left an impres-
sion that God will daguerotype on the minds
of the influential men of Congress, nd
also on the women of that august assembly,
which will have a bearing, and I hope make
them forbearing.  My sisters, fear not!
Let us be prayerful and watchful--God is
with us; yes, the God of Jacob, is our refuge!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENT-
	TATVIES, BY THE LADIES' ANTI-POLYGA-
	MY SOCIETY OF SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	The Ladies of the Anti-Polygamy Society
of Utah respectfully represent to Congress
that while Delegate Cannon and represent-
atives of the Mormon Church in Washing-
ton are petitioning for amnesty and promis-
ing obedience for their people to the anti-
polygamy law of 1862, the expressions and
actions of the Mormons in Utah give no
evidence that this promise will be fulfilled.
	Apostle John Taylor, president of the
Mormon Church, in an interview with a
Federal official, published by himself, de-
clared that the revelation enjoining poly-
gamy came direct from God; that it is his
religion, and that neither Congress nor the
Supreme Court has any right to interfere
with his religious views, and in doing so
they are violating their most sacred obliga-
tions. He said further that the Supreme
Court decision would have no effect except
to unite, confirm and strengthen the Mor-
mons in their faith. And this same Taylor,
when in France about the year 1853, he
having at that time five wives, denied in
toto the existence of polygamy among the
Mormons, and in order to the greater pub-
licity to this untrue statement, employed a
French lady, Madame Brouse by name, to
translate his denial of polygamy into French,
and then circulated it in pamphlet form
throughout the country. In this spirit the
Mormon people concur, and it is a matter
of common notoriety that they are contract-
ing unlawful marriages the same as ever,
that John W. Young has married Miss A. Wil-
kins, of this city, for his fifth wife since the
decision of the Supreme Court in the Rey-
nolds case was published; that James Welch
of Coalville, Summit county, has married
Ellen Vaughan for a second wife; that John
White, of East Mill Creek, Salt Lake coun-
ty, married Mrs. Samuels (a widow) for a
third wife, all since the decision above re-
ferred to.
	"The Deseret News," the official organ
of the Mormon Church, casts reproach upon
the Supreme Court, by declaring that the
decision was rendered under popular pres-
sure, by judges who are feeble-witted and
cloudy-minded; and in the ward meeting
houses, the most violent diatribes have
been uttered against the judges and the
judgment of the highest court of the land.
	We therefore respectfully ask Congress,
during its present session, so to amend the
act of 1862 that it may become operative by
making the general reputation of conjugal
relations, proof of marriage and living to-
gether in polygamy, to constitute the of-
fence. Unless the prosecuting officer of the
Government is enabled by some such appro-
priate legislation to prosecute and punish
offenders against the above named law, we
feel warranted in saying no regard will be
paid to the statute; polygamous marriages
will be as numerous as ever, and the de-
luded Mormons will be encouraged in their
violation of law from the religious belief
that the Lord has interposed in the behalf
of His people by confounding the designs
of their enemies.
	By resolution the Secretary was directed
to forward a copy of the above to Senator
Edmunds, with a request to present them
in the Senate, and a duplicate copy to Hon.
Martin Maginnis of Montana, with a re-
quest to offer them in the House, also to
send them by telegraph to the newspapers
of the United States for publication.
	The Secretary read a number of letters
from ladies and ministers in different parts
of the country, reporting the progress of
the work being done in their respective
localities, and giving assurance of the
hearty co-operation the ladies here are
meeting with from their sisters in the
States.		SARAH E. COOK, Pres.
			VICTORIA REED, Vice Pres.
			MARIAN CHISLETT, Sec'y.


GENEROSITY.

	READ AT THE Y. L. M. I. A.

	As generosity is the subject before the
house, for discussion this evening[-] I will
commence by saying that generosity[-] not
only consists in being open-handed but in
exhibiting those qualities which are prop-
erly regarded as belonging to noble minded
men and women. It is not always those
who are the most liberal in giving, but my
idea is that those who can endure the most
privations and hardships[-] taking every
thing for the best, and being contented
with what they have to endure are truly
generous. Look at our Heavenly Father
how magnanimous He is, pouring blessings
down upon all, with-holding nothing which
is for our good, nothing which is truly
beneficial. Certainly there are times when
we feel down[-]hearted and think we are not
very liberaly blessed with his holy spirit;
but all our trials and harships are for the
best. God has a purpose in all things, and
He sometimes allows stumbling-blocks to
be put in our way to try us, for[-] if we are
never tried with any thing and[-]our paths
are always flowery, of course we would
feel much better, but could not have the
same experience; God has not willed it so,
He tries us every day to see what we can
stand, some few bear their trials nobly, and
others sink under them. I do not profess
to show the magnanamity of God, but mere-
ly speak of it in my humble way, and as
generosity is our subject—I do not think
we can find a more generous, or just person
for example than Joseph Smith. Look at
the trials and hardships that this noble per-
son passed through for this people, and to
show them the right way, the greatness of
his mind, the elevation and dignity of his
soul, how he encountered dangers and trou-
ble with tranquility and firmness. He dis-
dained injustice and meanness, and his no-
ble spirit prompted him to sacrifice all for
this same noble object. And then our be-
loved President Brigham Young took up
his great work and followed in his footsteps,
giving generously ta the poor; helping and
blessing all who were in distress and need-
ful of his attentions and benevolence; nev-
er faltering until he was called to join his
brother, Joseph Smith, in the land of the
blessed, where we all sooner or later will be
called to go; that is if we prove faithful to
the end. When I picture the narrow, con-
tractedness and selfishness of our souls
with the nobleness and generosity of these
great persons it causes me to shudder.
While we are speaking of the generosity of
those great persons, we must not forget our
kind and generous hearted parents who
toil night and day striving to give us ad-
vantages, which some day will exalt us
among the[--]number of great men and wo-
men. How many [-]s yaung people now
could endure what our parents have been
called to go through in times past and
never falther, but with untiring diligence
stem the tide and at last win the victory.
I am afraid not very many, I think after
we go through as much as they have been
called to pass through, and preform as
many noble and generous acts and never
falter it will cause us all to shout "Eureka."
		MISS DESERET BRINGHURST.


206		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
		AMERICAN LITERATURE.

	Attention is drawn anew to this subject
by the very recent History of American
Literature by Moses Coit Tyler, Professor
of English Literature in the University of
Michigan.
	The book cannot be characterised as a
great work, yet it supplies a long felt want.
The authors of whose life and writings
these two volumes give an account, are for
the most part little known, if at all, by the
great reading public, but will be known in
future, not through their own writings but
through the copious extracts from their
works given in those volumes. This is one
of the merits of the "History". Professor
Tyler has had access to the most valuable
libraries of our country,—not merely to our
large public libraries, but to those private
libraries where only is to be found our earli-
est American Literature. These two vol-
umes cover the period from 1607 to 1765.
This fact suggests the very important ques-
tion. Have we a distinctively American
literature covering this period, or must we
mark a later date for the birth of our liter-
ature?
	Unlike the early literature of England,
we cannot point with the pride of ancestry
to our Chaucer, the Ballads of Robin Hood
the vision of Piers the Ploughman and
others. We must remember that at the
date which Professor Tyler has placed the
birth of our literature, England was at the
summit of her literary fame, was in the
glory of the Elizabethan age. Shakespeare
had written most of his plays; had become
proprietor of the Globe Theatre; was now a
respected squire, and lived in gentlemanly
competency, riding in his own carriage. At
this period Elizabeth had been dead four
years; Francis Bacon had become solicitor
general, and thirteen years after gave to
the world his Noverm Organan; Rare
Ben Jonson had written "Every Man in
his Humor" nine years before; Beaumont
and Fletcher were young men seeking pres-
ent fame and acquiring future fame; Milton
was born a year after, he whose name was
to last so long as lasts the English language.
	America can at this period present no
such names, nor since. We think that the
succeeding volumes of Professor Tyler's
mark will be the history of American liter-
ature. The subjects that the hundred
years of our national existance will present
are the cues which create the same lan-
guage as the literature of England but a dif-
ferent type of mind and manner. A. L. F.


THE BILL generally known as the Lock-
wood Bill, but technically as the Legal Disa-
bilities Bill, recently passed the House and
Senate. This bill has won a victory for
women, and after this let women be encour-
aged, however adverse circumstances may
be, for difficulties and obstructions are giv-
ing way before endurance, perseverance,
persistency and tenacity of purpose. The
bill provides that "any woman, a member
in good standing of the highest court in
any State or Territory, or of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, for three
years, shall be admitted to practice in the
United States Supreme Court." The bill
passed at last without amendment, 40 to 20.
Senator Sargent, who has been an able and
magnanimous friend of woman suffrage,
has been untiring in his efforts in advocat-
ing the passage of this bill. This noble
friend and defender of the rights of all
women merits the highest approbation and
esteem of all who desire to see woman
stand free and equal beside her brother
man.


THE NEXT annual convention of the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association is to be
held in May in St. Louis, Mo. This city
has been chosen because of the proposition
there to license the Social Evil law. The
suffrage women consider, and all deep-
thinking women surely will agree with
them, that this licensing of vice by govern-
ment is an infringement upon the liberty of
all women. Wherever this law has been
enforced, instead of securing the object for
which it was (professedly) designed it "has
had most oppressive moral and physical
tyranny over woman. As far as women
are concerned it reverses that rule of law
which holds all persons innocent until they
are proven guilty, for under it all women
are held guilty until proven innocent." The
call for the Convention made through
the "National Citizen and Ballot Box" says,
"Now let every Western and North West-
ern suffrage woman prepare herself to be in
some way represented at this great meeting,
either personally or by delegate from her
society	No more important convention
has ever been held than this will be; none
in which all women of whatever shade of
opinion are so deeply concerned.


[Column 1]
MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Six cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
			MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
					Salt Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, -	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	35 Cents each.
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

TRUNKS, SATCHELS AND VALISES
Of Every Variety and Price,
EITHER FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN
MANUFACTURED BY
J. H. CLEMETSHAW,
35 FIRST SOUTH ST., SALT LAKE CITY.
P. O. BOX 1089.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

WINTER GOODS
DAILY ARRIVING.
Shawls, Dress Goods, Blankets,
Flannels and Ladies' Coats, every variety,
AT
TEASDEL'S

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Salesroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

John Taylor, Pres't.		Wm. Jennings, Vice-Pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N.
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time purchase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders to
WM. H. ROWE,
		SUPERINTENDENT.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1879.				No. 20.


[For the EXPONENT.
	WE CAN.

The dearest of all precious treasures,
	The pet and the pride of our hearts;
What sunshine and sweetness and gladness
	Its heavenly presence imparts!
OUR darling will stay with us, surely;
	For its future we lovingly plan;
WE "couldn't keep house" without Baby—
Yet it goes, and we find that we can!

What wealth of intelligence reigneth
	In manhood's awakening power;
What purity crowneth our maidens,
	Like th' freshness of opening flowers.
Oh! the young folks. our hope, who are taking
	First parts in life's beautiful "play;"
Death comes and selects, oft the brightest—
	We can hear it—there's no other way.

The kindest and truest companion
	The fendest and gentlest friend,
At whost loss every prospect seems blighted,
	Life's interests all suddenly end:
Such are called, and half blind and bewildered,
	We rise from the groveling dust;
We stagger and reel, but we gather
	And stand, for we CAN when we MUST.

The leaders of people and nations,
	The men whom we value and prize,
And look upon as without equals,
	So noble and gifted and wise;
They leave us, and yet we press onward,
	As earnest and seemingly strong;
There is no standing still for the people,
	We must and we can move along.

We can live, though bereft of the blessings,
	Which seem more than half of our lives;
The babies, the youths and the maidens,
	Even parents, and husbands and wives:
Our Prophets, indeed, may be taken,
	And we bow'neath the chastening rod,
'Till the blessed, sweet Comforter cometh—
	We can do without all but our GOD!
		LULA.
L. G. Richards


"STAND STILL."

	A young friend asked me what we should
do "if Congress, or the Supreme Court of
the United States, should take us in hand
as earnestly as it appears they intend to
do?"
	I answered by opening the Bible and
reading from the fourteenth chapter of
Exodus, thirteenth verse: "And Moses
said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand
still, and see the salvation of the Lord,
which He will shew to you to-day."
	This is the way I feel, I said. If the
Lord wants us to make any particular move
in the matter, more than we have already
done, He will let us know. Otherwise, we
will "stand still." We will at least show
our enemies that we have more patience
and politeness than some of their party
possess. We will listen while they are
speaking to us and of us, no matter how
absurd their expressions may seem to us.
And that is more than some of our accusers
in this city are willing to do.
	At the Woman's Mass Meeting held in
the Theatre, two ladies of the opposing
party took seats directly back of where I
was sitting. And when Miss Snow in her
remarks said, "As true and loyal American
citizens we claim the right," &c., one of
these ladies observed, in a tone loud enough
to be distinctly heard, "Not very loyal!"
	Further on in her remarks Miss Snow re-
ferred to the Latter-day work as being es-
tablished "upon the principles of purity,


peace and righteousness," when one of the
ladies at my back echoed, "Purity! and
Righteousness!"
	Thus the speakers remarks were com-
mented upon, until she spoke of the feel-
ings of sympathy instead of revenge which
she felt for those banded together in our
midst to work evil, and who are trying to
measure arms with the Almighty. Then
came whispers from the ladies behind me,
of "Let's go!"
	And they did go. Instead of listening
to the Mormon women's vindications and
explanations of their faith and practices,
and why they held to them, these ladies
arose and left the house before the first
speaker had concluded her remarks.
	This is but one of a great many instances
of a similar kind. And such are the char-
acters who represent us, or misrepresent us,
as disloyal, unrighteous and everything
bad. They do not know us, and they refuse
to hear us tell what we are. But we can
afford to bear with them, and when we
have nothing to say or do for a little time
we can "stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord."					L. G. R.


For the EXPONENT.
				TIME.

	Time is a measured portion of duration.
It is divided into three grand divisions, viz.,
the past, the present and the future. The
past we know. Memory, that faculty of
the mind that retains so vividly the knowl-
edge of all our past thoughts and actions,
does its duty faithfully in this regard. It
brings to mind the bitter remembrance of
things that are past and connects them with
the present and the future. It makes them
live through all time, and may, perhaps,
through all eternity. It shows us all our
failings, all our imperfections, and points
out to us wherein we have failed to come
up to the standard of our expectations. It is
therefore necessary that we remember the
past, to make us not unmindful of the pre-
sent, and to better prepare us for the future.
There are some things we would not forget.
Memory may bring many pleasant recollec-
tions, that we are as anxious to retain as
we are to forget all past trials and disap-
pointments. There is in every one's life
some bright oasis to which memory will
revert with gladness, and linger on, as a
sweet strain of music to the weary heart.
The present is now. We cannot live in
time that is past, nor in time that is to
come. We actually live only now. It is
now we must bend all our energies to make
life a grand success. Now we must work
and toil for the crown of reward we are
anxious to gain; now the spade must be
struck, the soil turned up and our crop of
good deeds sown, if we wish to reap a har-
vest. It is now we lay the foundation of
future usefulness and greatness. Our time
is our life; it is given us in trust, and like
all other things that are entrusted to our
care, we will be held accountable for the
use of it. Present time is all we can call
our own and it is wise to make the best use
of it we cau. Fill it with all the good
deeds, pleasant thoughts and kind actions
in our power, so that when it becomes the


past, it will be one we will charge memory
to retain. Of the flowery future we know
nothing, but dream much. It is the place
where imagination loves to live. It is
where we look for the fulfilling of all our
fond hopes and bright dreams. It is where
we expect the grand scenes of life's drama
to be enacted. What bright hopes and
rosy dreams we have of the future. God
grant they may all be realized.
							JUNE.


THE WISE OWLS.

	[Apropos to the decision of the Supreme
Court refusing a woman the right to appear
before it.]
	In a certain place there were nine old
owls who sit all day on a bench and looked
very wise. They tried a great many hard
cases and listened solemnly to the chatter-
ing of magpies and the cawing of crows and
the twittering of tomtits. But one morning
when the blue jay came in and asked them
to hear her, they all hooted in horror and
cried out, "Go away, you are a female!"
	Moral—If you wish to succeed, do not be
a female.—A fable by Lillie Devereux Blake.
	Now that the Supreme Court have ad-
mitted Mrs. Lockwood, to practice before
that honorable body there is a good chance
for Mrs. Blake to write another fable with
a moral, and as her efforts in that direction
are certainly very pleasing we hope soon
to see one on this same subject.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	VIRGINIA F. Stephens, of Springfield,
Mass., edits an amateur monthly paper en-
titled "The Springfield Joker."
	MRS Belva A. Lockwood was admitted
to practice at the bar of the United States
Supreme Court on the third inst.—Ex.
	ONE of the courses of Cambridge lectures
to women this term is to be given by a 
lady—Miss Crofts. The subject is English
history.—Ex.
	PETITIONS have been received by both
branches of the Michigan Legislature for
the admission of girls to the Agricultural
College, on equal footing with boys, and to
make females eligible as school officers.—Ex.
	THE Suffragists of Indiana had a hearing
before their Legislature on Tuesday last. A
memorial prepared by the Indiana State
Suffrage Association was read. Mary E.
Haggart made an argument upon the just-
ness of the claims set forth in the memori-
al. Mary F. Thomas, M. D., followed in a
speech upon the legal disabilities of women.
Mrs Governor Wallace answered the object-
ions offered to giving the ballot to women.
Amy E. Dunn closed with an address on
representative women.—Ex.


THE intellect has only one failing, which,
to be sure, is a very considerable one; it
has no conscience. Napoleon is the readi-
est instance of this. If his heart had borne
any proportion to his brain, he had been
one of the greatest men in all history.—
Lowell.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<ui utah="" .stake="" report.="" 7="" minutes="" of="" the="" .quarterly="" conference="" belief="" societies="" stake="" zion,="" held="" beb.="" 28="" th,="" 1879;="" sister="" m.="" t,="" smoot,="" with="" her="" counsel,="" presiding;="" present="" priesthood,="" "pres,="" pavjd="" john,="" bro.="" patman="" and="" others.="" sisters="" e.="" b.="" snow,="" zina'd.="" young="" e="" wells,="" salt="" lake="" city,="" were="" also="" present.="" after="" singing="" prayer="" the.="" former="" meeting="" .read="" accepted.="" quarterly="" reports="" thenr="" read="" by="" secretary.="" paxman="" addressed="" for="" a="" short,="" time,="" wbipti="" -meet-="" ing="" adjourned="" till',3="" o’clock="" in="" afternoon.="" afternoon="" meeting,="" opened="" prayer.="" b="" wells="" occupied="" portion="" time="" giving,="" very="" pleasing="" manner,="" an="" account="" trip="" to="" washington.="" zina="" d.="" r.="" snow="" gave="" great="" deal="" good="" instructions="" pertaining="" their="" several="" duties.="" presidents="" dif-="" ferent="" wards="" gayeli="" verbal="" pf="" wards,="" speaking="" ,'wpii="" over="" whom="" they="" presided.="" spirit="" love="" uniop="" exists="" pmphg="" the'="" sisters,="" and’all="" seem="" to.="" feel="" well.="" "="" following="" js'.our="" statjgticaind="" fi-="" nancial="" report="" .for="" stake:="" ui.="" ojl="" members.............................="" ...187,5="" teachers............="" .2="" 08="" meetings="" held..............................,06="" average="" attendance.......................-430="" church="" papers="" taken......,.....v,.v...!463="" woman’s="" exponent...="">			R. S. REPORTS.

	NEWTON, CACHE Co., Feb. 14th 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A brief report of the annual meeting of
Newton Relief Society, held in the school
house Feb. 10th 1879. We were honored
with the presence of Bishop W. H. Rigby
and his Counselors J. H. Barker and W. H.
Griffin, and there were several others of
the brethren who attended the meeting by
invitation of the President, M. A. Parsons,
there was also a good attendance of the
members. After singing and prayer, our
President made some encouraging remarks,
and stated the object of the meeting. Bish-
op Rigby then addressed the meeting, he
referred to various principles pertaining to
the Relief Society, which were very in-
teresting. He informed us that it was the
largest consolidated quorum of Newton,
hence its importance, and the necessity of
the members being wise in all their move-
ments.
	The financial report of the past year was
presented and accepted. Summary of the
same:
Cash on hand from 1877......................... $12 00
Received by donations from members	  31 58

		Total						  43 58
Wheat on hand from 1877.......................  6 bu.
Wheat donated by the sisters in 1878.....  38
Received on city lot....................................  26

		Total						   70
	To the Logan Temple $26 45. By labor
and means, with the aid of the brethren, as
well as the sisters, we have fenced and
cultivated our city lot to the amount of $72,
70.
	The meeting also passed a unanimous
vote in favor of upholding the principle of
plural marriage, taking the Resolutions on
the same topic as published in the "WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT" of Jan. 1st 1879.
	Mrs. Mary Griffin, a visitor from the
Clarkston Relief Society, of which she is
the President, expressed her approval of
polygamy as revealed from God, and prac-
tised among the Latter-day Saints, in a
very decided manner.
	Mrs. J. M. Welchman, who had passed an
experience of many years as a practical
polygamist, said: she would not like to
give it up, though there were many sacri-
fices to make, but it all tended to purify
the life and character of women, she real-
ized that it was a principle of temporal
and eternal salvation.
	Singing, Benediction by Bishop W. F.
Rigby.
	A party was held in the evening, which
was well attended, we had a very pleasant
time and all present seemed to enjoy
themselves.
				ELIZABETH J. CLARKE, Sec'y.

			TOQUERVILLE, Feb. 20th, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of our Society was
held Jan. 18, 1879. The report of the year
1878, was as follows:
Donated to needy....................................... $40 55
Donated to Sanpete Temple cash............   6
Capital Stock in Co-op store......................    30
Capital Stock in Washington Factory            25
Cash on hand..............................................    20
Sundry articles.............................................    94 80
	We have bought a lot, to raise mulberry
trees, for which we paid $50. The brethren
turned out "en masse" and fenced the lot
entire and made other improvements. The
sisters arranged a picnic and surprised the
workers, which they received thankfully
and had a good time. The Society gave
the workers a party and supper; over one
hundred and fifty persons partook of the
supper, "and all went merry as a marriage
bell." We had a very pleasant call from
Sisters Minerva Snow, Anna Ivins, Lizzie
Calkins, Elizabeth Bently and Eyring from
St. George. They gave us some excellent
counsel and spoke very encouragingly to
the sisters, which was highly appreciated
by us.
	Wishing prosperity to the "EXPONENT."
		Your Sisters in the Gospel
			ELIZABETH KLIENMAN Pres.
			ROSILIA SPILSBURY, Sec'y

		UTAH STAKE REPORT.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion,
held Feb. 28th, 1879; Sister M. T. Smoot,
with her Counsel, presiding; present of the
priesthood, Pres. David John, Bro. Paxman
and others. Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City,
were also present.
	After singing and prayer the minutes of
former meeting were read and accepted.
The Quarterly Reports were then read by
the Secretary. Bro. Paxman addressed the
sisters for a short time, after which meet-
ing adjourned till 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
	Afternoon meeting opened by singing
and prayer. Sister E. B Wells occupied a
portion of the time in giving, in a very
pleasing manner, an account of her trip to
Washington. Sisters Zina D. Young and
E. R. Snow also gave the sisters a great
deal of good instructions pertaining to their
several duties. The presidents of the dif-
ferent wards gave a verbal account of their
wards, speaking well of the sisters over
whom they presided. A spirit of love and
union exists among the sisters, and all seem
to feel well.
	The following is our Statistical and Fi-
nancial Report for the Stake:
Members.............................................. 1875
Teachers...............................................   208
Meetings held......................................     66
Average attendance............................   430
Church papers taken...........................   163
WOMAN'S EXPONENT..........................     86
Disbursements to poor........................ $371 30
Temple...................................................  191 21
Buildings................................................. 966 13
Books......................................................    17 70
P. E. Fund................................................   25 00
Sundry disbursements, Home In-
	dustries, Silk.....................................   17 84
On hand in cash and property..............   4478 70
Wheat...............................................1288 bu., 4 lbs.
	A few of the Societies did not send in
their Quarterly Reports. Our Conference
adjourned for three months.
						C. DANIELS, Secretary.

		BOX ELDER STAKE REPORT.

	Financial report of the Branches of Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake of Zion from
1863 to Sept. 10th, 1878:
Donations received........................$14,016 94
	Disbursements
Missionary Fund............................$ 30 15
Temple............................................... 1843 62
B. C. Tabernacle................................   829 48
P. E. Fund..........................................    520 75
Lamanites...........................................    17 00
Woolen Factory..................................   135 30
Sunday School Library......................     16 25
Books, papers, etc.............................    150 00
Public Buildings..................................   219 40
Charitable purposes.......................... 2118 26
Sericulture.......................................... 1000 65
Loaned................................................    222 62

			Total				7103 48

Property on hand................................ 4998 45
Cash......................................................  383 31
Capital Stock........................................ 1541 70

			Total				6912 46

Wheat Stored....................................... 1145 bu.
					MRS. MARY E. SNOW,
						R. S. Stake Sec'y.
					LYDIA MAY SNOW,
						Y. L. M. I. A. Sec'y.

	The Second Quarterly Conference of Re-
lief Societies and Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations of Box Elder
Stake of Zion was held in Brigham City,
Dec. 10th, 1878. Meeting called to order
by President Harriet Snow. Present on
the stand were Bishops of different Wards,
Patriarch Box, Presidents of R. S. and Y.
L. M. I. A., and others. After the opening
exercises, the minutes of first Quarterly
Conference were read and approved. Re-
ports from fifteen R. S. read by the Stake
Secretary, after which the presidents of R.
S. of Brigham City gave verbal reports of
their respective societies, each seeming to
fully sense the importance position to which
they were called, and expressing a desire
to aid in furthering the cause of righteous-
ness. Pres. H. Snow made a few closing
remarks, stating her pleasure and satisfac-
tion with the efforts of the sisters. Con-
ference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benediction
by Bishop Harper.
	After the opening exercises of the after-
noon, presidents of R. S. of the adjacent
settlements each gave verbal reports. The
reports of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of
the different wards of the Stake were read
by the Secretary, Lydia May Snow, after
which the presidents of Y. L. M. I. A. re-
ported verbally. Primary Associations
were also represented. The remainder of
the afternoon was devoted to business.
	Conference adjourned until March 10,
1879.
	Quarterly Report of Relief Societies of
Box Elder Stake of Zion, from Sept. 10,
1878 up to Dec. 10, 1878.
			Statistical.
No. of Members................................. 677
No. of Teachers..................................	114
No. of Meetings held......................... 66
Average attendance........................... 296

			Financial.
Donations received.......................... $469 50
Wheat stored.....................................  583 bu.
	Disbursements.
Temple............................................... $151 25
Charitable purposes........................      60 77

	Total						212 02
Remaining in Treasury......................   248 48
			MRS. MARY E. SNOW, Stake Sec'y.
				per LYDIA MAY SNOW.


Faith evermore overlooks the difficulties
of the way, and bends her eyes only to the
end. She looks back to the Gross and is at
peace; and forward to the crown, and pants
for its possession.—Bishop Hall.
	If our religion is not true, we are bound
to change it; If it is true, we are bound to
propagate it.—Whately.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		209


[For the EXPONENT.
	"MY SON GIVE ME THINE HEART."

She rocked her baby, singing low
	Love tones that mothers
To tender words that mothers know
	How fittingly to string.
And aye! the secret of her song,
	In each and every part;
Was ever all the sweet time long,
	'My child, give me thine heart.'

When nature's fairest beauties smiled.
	She loved with him to stray,
And taught the listening trustful child,
	To fairer realms the way.
And when amid earth's scenes of ill.
	Her anxious fears did start;
The pleading of her love, was still,
	My child give me thine heart.

My child give me thine heart, he hears
	The heavenly Father's call;
For fleeing to his throne, her tears
	And prayer before him fall,
When Christ hath died that thou might'st live,
	And facing evils dart,
Thy mother's love, no less would give
	Wilt thou withold thine heart?

Alas! how e'en Immanuel's cry
	Of desolation, pain;
Pleading for strength, with him on high,
	While midnight hour did wane;
Fell on disciples loved, who slept,	
	Though soon with him to part
While He in love, and anguish wept,
	'Father give me their hearts.'

Alas! for him, who had denied
	His Master's name and power;
Of whom, e'en nature testified,
	In crucifixions hour.
Spare me the cry of souls that wait
	The dread command depart,	
Remembering at last, too late,
	'My child, give me thine heart. 
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Feb. 10, 1879.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		CONSISTENCY THOU ART A 
				JEWEL.

	Will our enemies please be consistent, if
only for the novelty of the thing? How
reasonable they are! they never turn their
coats, no never! A short time since the
cry was the poor, down-trodden, broken-
hearted women of Utah, who dared not
raise their heads, much less their voices,
for fear of the vengeance of their tyrant
husband, for instance tie them up in sacks
and throw them into the Salt Lake to
pickle. They said give the poor, ignorant
creatures the franchise, and they will turn
the tables on their tyrants by pitching them
into the big pickling tub nature has pro-
vided. Well, our husbands gave us the
right of franchise, showing how little fear
they had of our vengeance, and for eight
years we have gone to the polls with those
husbands to cast our votes for those we felt
the best qualified to hold the offices we had
the power to bestow; no quarrelling, no
rowdyism, all peace and harmony.
	All of a sudden we hear a cry. What's
the matter now? Why, those women that
we have liberated, instead of voting for us,
and giving us all power to crush their ty-
rants, they are as bad as their husbands; we
thought we had thrown sand in their eyes,
and blinded their reason, but we find we
have failed; we thought they were fools,
but find they have out-witted us. Now,
what are we to do? We will move earth
and that other place, where they keep the
furnace red-hot, but we will stop your vo-
ting. What have they done here in Tooele
County? Thrown out all the precincts but
two. What for? To use the words of one
poor sniveling creature of this most liber-
al (?) party, who put in a petition asking

[Column 2]
that all returns from all the precincts voting
the peoples' ticket be thrown out, "because
the WOMEN voted." How magnanimous!
poor fellow, I wonder if he ever had a
mother, a wife, or a daughter; if so, what
do they think of him? Is he not afraid
they will pickle him?
	What is all this hue and cry about? Is
it our religion? Oh no! we don't care what
you believe in, you can believe in anything
you like only you must not practice it.
They roll up their eyes in holy horror at
plurality of wives, yet practice it them-
selves, after their own manner. The old
saying is "those that make the greatest
cry of 'stop thief!' are those that need
watching." What do such men care for wo-
man but to abuse her? Nothing; less than
nothing. The vast majority of mankind, if
women will do as they wish, and keep
quiet, they will spend their money to adorn
their person—never mind their soul—until
they get tired of them and want a change,
then if married to one they will often treat
her to magnificent contempt, twirl a cigar
between their lips, and talk of the folly
and imbecility of women, and bestow time
and means upon other women to beguile
their idle hours; if unmarried, spend their
money and degrade their manhood in gam-
bling dens and other vile places.
	They call the Mormons vile, whose lives
are spent in caring for their wives and chil-
dren, both temporally and spiritually, who
endeavor to exalt themselves and all de-
pending on them, who work early and late
to provide for their household honestly; not
striving as our enemies are doing, no mat-
ter how, to get their hands into "Uncle
Sam's" pocket, to rob him in utter shame-
lessness, following the Quaker's advice to
his son: "My son, get money; get it hon-
estly if thee can, but get money." Any one
that reads the papers cannot help but see
that the amount of fraud inflicted on the
people of the United States is stupendous,
and every pretended investigation is but an
added robbery of the nation. If our de-
famers are sincere, let them commence at
home to set things right, and they will find
so much to do that they will forget to trou-
ble us.
	Then again, how very consistent are the
friends of the Chinese Bill (these same
men); their strongest arguments are that
they have no family ties; they do not amal-
gamate; they do not seek to become citi-
zens, but as soon as they obtain sufficient
money return to their own country. Now
they must be driven out of the country, or
exterminated for not having families. The
Mormons must receive the same treatment
for having families, and seeking to become
citizens of the United States. Oh, how
very consistent! They are like the man
that was going to be hung—could not feel
satisfied. Well, they may drive John from
the country, and do many other mighty
works, but we intend to stay here so long
as we or our posterity may live.
							MARY.
	Grantsville, March 9th, 1879.


[Column 1]
OUR MISSION.

READ BEFORE THE CONJOINT MEETING OF
THE M. I. ASSOCIATIONS OF IHE 11TH,
WARD, S. L. CITY, JAN. 1879.

	My young brothers and sisters, we were 
all sent here on the earth, for a purpose,
and we all have a mission to perform. It
is the duty of each of us to understand that
mission. We have been told by many of 
our great men, that the noblest spirits were

[Column 2]
reserved to come forth in this our day, be-
cause of the great and mighty work to be
accomplished, in preparing for the second
coming of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ. I wonder how many of us realize,
that ours is one of those noble spirits, and
do we ever ask ourselves the question, are
we honoring and striving to bring our bo-
dies into subjection to that pure and noble
spirit, that inhabits it, which ever invites
to deeds of virtue and holiness, and would
check us when prompted to do any evil or
wrong. How our hearts should swell with
gratitude to God, that for us was reserved
this great privilege, which so many of our
forefathers longed to enjoy but were de-
nied.
	How little we realized these great gospel
truths, until these organizations were in-
stituted for the growth and development
of the young, Now we begin to know who
we are, from where we came, and what
will be our future destiny, if we are faith-
ful to God and obey all his commands: and
let us not think for a moment, that we can
do too much good the little time we
stay; for it will be only through the utmost
diligence on our part, that we can earn a
place in the Celestial Kingdom. We must
not only be able to say, we have done
harm to no one, but we must be able to say;
we have done all in our power, for the
furtherance and advancement of the Zion of
God on the earth, being prompt in every
good word and work. Let us attend faith-
fully to all our meetings, and seek know-
<and,peek know-="" ledge="" frome.vefy="" a="" yah="" bio="" source,="" for="" knowledge="" 4spofter,.and,ihpuaoro'wo="" pos-="" sess="" the="" more="" capable="" weyul,="" bq="" irtha$sisjt-="" lug.in="" great’latter-day'="" work.="" ,="" we="" all="" desire="" tp.bp.'.gppd="" 'and‘useful,="" 'so="" let="" us="" put="" our="" good="" desire'="" into="" execution,="" it="" is'q="" our'power="" soda="" dp.="" if="" proba-="" that="" covenanted="" with="" heavenly="" father="" before="" came="" here;="" tifdt'we="" would="" be="" energetic="" in="" cause="" of="" tightedusness,="" he="" grant="" u3="" great="" ahd="" inestf-="" mable="" privilege="" having="" a-body="" oh="" earth';="" wo="" could="" then="" see="" how="" grcatr="" blessingto="" be-thus="" obtained,="" which="" bb="" obtained="" hdother="" way.="" cannot="" now="" as="" theri,="" but="" have="" holy="" gospelto'lead="" and="" guide1="" truth,="" teafch="" duty="" from="" 'time="" to="" time,="" are="" iso="" blest="" living="" priest.="" hoodj="" through="" .which="" can="" receive="" i="" .word="" of.gbd,="" so="" not="" left="" grope="" thoidark.="" these="" "associations="" were="" [organ-="" ized="" ,thqt‘living="" priesthood,="" consequently="" .from="" heaven;="" any="" young="" man="" or="" woman="" who="" will="" faithfully="" attend="" thesp="" meetings,="" taking="" part="" they="" may="" called="" upon="" by="" those="" preside="" advance="" rapid="" brides,="" know="" their,="" mission,="" and.="" yill="" become="" mighty="" pillarys="" chqrch="" god="" earth;="" finally="" crownfed="" presenco="" lamb,="" while="" take="" no="" part,="" shrink="" duty,="" also="" reap="" reward="" deeds="" done="" inthe="" body,="" recelyo="" only="" what="" justly="" earned.="" ma:y="" wh'b'are="" hero="" this="" evening="" on="" whole="" armor="" of'righteousness;="" battlo="" bravely="" 1="" overcome="" sin,="" establish="" reign="" peace="" -tlio="" hrth,="" glory,="" capacita.="" ted="" enjoy,="" is'the’prayer="" ofyour="" sister.="" mary="" a.reeze.="" ..="" hxii="" ol="" 11,="" t<="" div="">ledge from every available source, for
<and,peek know-="" ledge="" frome.vefy="" a="" yah="" bio="" source,="" for="" knowledge="" 4spofter,.and,ihpuaoro'wo="" pos-="" sess="" the="" more="" capable="" weyul,="" bq="" irtha$sisjt-="" lug.in="" great’latter-day'="" work.="" ,="" we="" all="" desire="" tp.bp.'.gppd="" 'and‘useful,="" 'so="" let="" us="" put="" our="" good="" desire'="" into="" execution,="" it="" is'q="" our'power="" soda="" dp.="" if="" proba-="" that="" covenanted="" with="" heavenly="" father="" before="" came="" here;="" tifdt'we="" would="" be="" energetic="" in="" cause="" of="" tightedusness,="" he="" grant="" u3="" great="" ahd="" inestf-="" mable="" privilege="" having="" a-body="" oh="" earth';="" wo="" could="" then="" see="" how="" grcatr="" blessingto="" be-thus="" obtained,="" which="" bb="" obtained="" hdother="" way.="" cannot="" now="" as="" theri,="" but="" have="" holy="" gospelto'lead="" and="" guide1="" truth,="" teafch="" duty="" from="" 'time="" to="" time,="" are="" iso="" blest="" living="" priest.="" hoodj="" through="" .which="" can="" receive="" i="" .word="" of.gbd,="" so="" not="" left="" grope="" thoidark.="" these="" "associations="" were="" [organ-="" ized="" ,thqt‘living="" priesthood,="" consequently="" .from="" heaven;="" any="" young="" man="" or="" woman="" who="" will="" faithfully="" attend="" thesp="" meetings,="" taking="" part="" they="" may="" called="" upon="" by="" those="" preside="" advance="" rapid="" brides,="" know="" their,="" mission,="" and.="" yill="" become="" mighty="" pillarys="" chqrch="" god="" earth;="" finally="" crownfed="" presenco="" lamb,="" while="" take="" no="" part,="" shrink="" duty,="" also="" reap="" reward="" deeds="" done="" inthe="" body,="" recelyo="" only="" what="" justly="" earned.="" ma:y="" wh'b'are="" hero="" this="" evening="" on="" whole="" armor="" of'righteousness;="" battlo="" bravely="" 1="" overcome="" sin,="" establish="" reign="" peace="" -tlio="" hrth,="" glory,="" capacita.="" ted="" enjoy,="" is'the’prayer="" ofyour="" sister.="" mary="" a.reeze.="" ..="" hxii="" ol="" 11,="" t<="" div="">knowledge is power, and the more we pos-
sess the more capable we will be in assist-
ing in the great latter-day work.
	We all desire to be good and useful, so
let us put our good desire into execution,
for it is in our power so to do. It is proba-
ble that we covenanted with our Heavenly
Father before we came here, that we would
be energetic in the cause of righteousness,
if he would grant us the great and inesti-
mable privilege of having a body on the 
earth; for we could then see how great the 
blessings to thus obtained, which could
be obtained in no other way. We cannot
now see as we could then, but we have the
Holy Gospel to lead and guide us into all
truth, and teach us our duty from time to 
time, we are also blest with a living priest-
hood, through which we can receive the 
word of God, so we are not left to grope in
the dark. These associations were organ-
ized through that living priesthood, and 
consequently are from heaven; and any
young man or woman who will faithfully
attend these meetings, taking part as they
may be called upon by those who preside,
will advance with rapid strides, will know
their mission, and will become great and 
mighty pillars in the church of God upon
the earth; and finally be crowned in the
presence of God and the Lamb, while those
who take no part, or taking part shrink
from duty, will also reap the reward of the
deeds done in the body, and will receive
only what they have justly earned. May
we who here this evening put on the 
whole armor of righteousness[-] and battle
bravely to overcome sin, and establish a
reign of peace on the earth, and that we
may receive all the glory, we are capacita-
ted to enjoy, is the prayer of your sister.
		MARY A. FREEZE.


No man has come to true greatness who
has not felt in some degree that his life
belongs to his race, and what God gives
him He gives him for mankind.—Phillip
Brooks.


210		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Room No. 1, up stairs, Old Consti-
tution Building, East Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communicaitons to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
CONTINUED.

	Friday afternoon session: On the platform
in Lincoln Hall were assembled more ladies
than at any previous session; Dr. C. B. Pervis, of
Philadelphia, and Federic Douglas occupied
front seats, with a crowded audience anxiously
awaiting. President Mrs. Stanton addressed
the Convention on the condition of the age
and the tendencies to a more one-sided suffrage
system. She said, "All are now admitted to
the ballot except idiots, Chinamen and wo-
men." that the existing state of affairs tended
to "irreverence, infidelity and corruption."
She pronounced it absurd, and added that under
man's rule the system of politics was such it
was impossible to tell whether the Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the land held his seat by fraud;
or otherwise; she referred to the cipher system
as looking exceedingly bad.
	Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage next delivered her
remarkable speech upon United States' Rights
vs. States' Rights.
	We consider Mrs. Gage's speech of so much
value that we intend to publish it in full, also
Mrs. Stanton's opening address, Miss Anthony's
lecture, Bread and the Ballot, Mrs. Lockwood's,
Mrs. Slocum's and our own delivered on the
first evening of the session; but our readers
will be so kind as to give us time, our paper be-
ing so small we can only publish one at a time.
	Mrs. Helen M. Slocum, of New York City, a
very finely educated and talented lady, with a
very intelligent face and an earnestness that
must have thrilled every woman's heart in
that large assembly, so impressive were her
manner and tone, plead as a mother would
plead for her own child, for the fallen and de-
praved women who sell their souls for bread,
and the innocent children born to shame and
reared in crime, if suffered to exist at all. She
appealed to the mothers of the land and asked
them if they did not think it was time they
had the privilege of owning their own chil-
dren. She informed them there were but few
States in the Union where the father had not
power to dispose of his children as he pleased,
by appointing guardians, taking them from
their mothers, and even willing away her un-
born babe if he so chooses. Mrs. Slocum stated
there were, according to the carefully prepared
statistics of the "Working Woman's Protective
Union,'. five hundred thousand women in New
York City and its immediate vicinity, outside
of domestic service, who are working for wages
which do not average over two dollars a week.
She vehemently exclaimed, "Can any one tell
how it is possible for these women to clothe,
feed and shelter themselves upon such wages
as these? *	* There is a great army of wo-
men called outcasts, whose ranks are constantly
being filled for want of bread. *	*	* The
men who withhold from women the power of

[Column 2]
self-protection through the ballot, thus pre-
venting them from being able to dictate terms
to their employers, are largely responsible for
this state of things." She appealed most elo-
quently and fervently to mothers. *	* "We
mothers cannot separate ourselves from the
great mass of women, and who of us are to f[-]r-
nish the recruits for this army whose [-]anks are
being continually refilled? for death goes hand
in hand with such foul corruption."

	Dr. Caroline B. Winslow, a resident physi-
cian and the able Editor of "The Alpha," pub-
lished in the interests and for the benefit and
elevation of women, made a thrilling speech
upon the same subject as Mrs. Slocum, al-
though Mrs. Winslow confined her remarks
more to the wickedness and corruption of the
District of Columbia.
	Mrs. Williams, of Utah, then gave a short
discourse upon Mormon women, their motives,
principles and efforts; in short made a strong de-
fense for her Mormon sisters.
	Mrs. Spencer styled Washington a Congress-
ional boarding house, and advised women
who desired the suffrage not to feed Congress-
men so well.
	Mrs. Blake emphasized "The protection of
women by men" by relating a story of a young
girl in Michigan driven out of town to die on
Christmas night, and referred to the murder
column of the newspaper. She declared
that man was not the natural protector of wo-
man, as alleged. She drew on the calendar of
crime to bear out her theory. Mrs. Lockwood
sprang up, interrupting Mrs. Blake, and said
such remarks only tended to widen the breach
between men and women, and for her part she
would not stand it; as Mrs. B. had mentioned
several cases where men had murdered their
wives, she could show half a dozen instances
in that vicinity alone where women had not
only murdered their husbands, but their chil-
dren. There was some sharp sparring between
these two, both of them women of wit and
versed in the learning of the world, but Mrs.
Stanton, with her uncommon tact, succeeded
in obtaining order and a truce, after which she
made a few remarks herself, speaking in strong
terms of commendation of men, and the after-
noon session adjourned.
	Second Evening session. The first speaker
was Mrs. Julia Browne Dunham, from Iowa,
who gave a concise annual report of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of that State; she
thought the Iowa Legislature nearly ready to
vote for woman suffrage, and that public opin-
ion was largely in their favor. Women had
already been given many offices of trust and
honor, especially as trustees of schools.
	Mrs. Stanton rose, greeted with enthusiastic
applause, and introduced Mrs. Lockwood as
Lockwood versus the United States. Mrs. L ,
the celebrated lawyer, then made her earnest
and eloquent speech entitled "Waymarks."
She was frequently applauded, and at the
close received a very beautiful bouquet.
	After this there was a sharp discussion be-
tween Dr. Perivs, and Mrs. F. Douglas on the
fifth resolution, which referred to the Presi-
dent's message and his neglect to mention
twenty thousand women citizens. Dr. Pervis
is a very talented man and a very fluent speak-
er, and of course used strong language. He had
taken exception to the phrase "possible bull-
dozing of some of the hapless race in the
South," and felt insulted by any such connec-
tion with the President; he denounced the
policy of President Hayes. Of course there
were loud cheers and applause and hisses. Mr.
Douglas resented the saddling of everything
upon the President, and there was a great deal
of confusion created; people called out "What's

[Column 3]
this to do with woman's rights," etc. Mrs.
Stanton had to rise quite often to call to order.
During the colloquy between Messrs. Pervis
and Douglas, Mrs. Spencer arose and stated that
the resolutions had been drafted with special
care &c. Mrs. Stanton called for a copy of said
resolutions, and thought the offending clause
was in the wrong place. The construction of
the sentence was afterwards changed. Mr.
Pervis closed his remarks by saying; "I speak
for black people because I know that on this
platform they can be spoken of (applause).
Speak for them, because there is no power un-
der heaven to protect them."
	Mrs. Stanton arose and said from the events
of the evening it was very evident there was
need of women in the councils of men. That
we must never forget the right and sacredness
of free speech, which is a woman's right tenet,
and that women must teach their sons when
they go to public meetings to use their tongues
like men and not like serpents. *	* They
must learn the great American lesson of tolera-
tion of free speech.	*	*	*	*
	Mrs. Stanton was enthusiastically applauded.
She gave notice that next winter there would
be some new speakers, both men and women
Her youngest daughter, now studying in the
Boston school of oratory, would be there on
the platform and take part in the Convention.
It was then announced the Convention was
over.	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.—Having had several
applications to join my winter ob[-]te[-]rical class
rather late, I propose commencing a new class,
beginning May 1st, and ending Nov. 1st, if a
sufficient number apply. Any one desiring to
join this class please advise me by April 15th.
	Further particulars can be had by applicants
by letter.
		ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.

	YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVENENT AS-
SOCIATIONS.—The secretaries of the different
branches of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations in this Stake of Zion
are repsectfully requested to forward their quar-
terly reports at once, so as to be ready for the
Quarterly Conference, to be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, March 21 and 22.
	Address Mary P. Freeze. President, P. O.
Box 1183.
		AUGUSTA J. CROCHERON, Secretary.

	WE HAVE been requested by Pres. M. Isa-
bella Horne to announce that the fifth Quar
terly Conference of Salt Lake Stake Relief So-
ciety will convene on Friday and Saturday of
this month, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m. on Fri-
day. It is expected this will be an interesting
conference, and that the secretaries will each
hand in their reports to this office, as previously
requested, a few days before the meeting, so
that the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard, may have
time to read and arrange them. We trust the
sisters will feel the importance of attending
this conference, and that they will not only
send in written reports, but be prepared to give
a verbal report of the progress and improve-
ment made through the influence of these or-
ganizations. The Primary Associations of this
county will also please report, that a complete
knowledge of the practical and spiritual devel-
opment of those enrolled in these[-] societies, or
the need of it may be understood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY 
	DIED, at South Cottonwood, Feb.—, 1879,
Mrs. Sophia Godfrey, wife of James Godfrey,
leaving a husband and large family to mourn
her loss. Sister Godfrey was baptized into this
Church when quite young, and emigrated to
Utah with her father and mother in the first
hand-cart company in 1856. The father was
taken sick on the plains, and she, although a
very young girl, aided her mother very materi-
ally during his illness; he died at the Sweetwa-
ter, and they continued their journey across
<eryi.y°ung. girl,="" aided="" :her="" mother="" very="" materl-="" aljy.during="" his="" illness;="" hp="" died="" at="" the="" sweetiva-="" rlter,:and="" ,they="" continued,="" their="" journey="" across="" thetplains="" pndei="" a="" complication="" of="" difficulties,="" ;="" t-proving,="" firmness:="" in="" thefaithof="" goa-="" (="" s.pel,;orh©pipther="" died,="" few="" years="" aftertheir="" prriyal.here,="" ieavjng="" care="" younger="" o="" biater,torsisterr="" godfrey,="" iowfrom="" ehe.has.been="" oiatqr,="" counselor="" .and="" friend.="" bister="" godfreyhaa="" been="" worthy="" and="" active="" member="" pu?.="" relief.="" .society="" place="" itp="" organization,="" faithful;="" to="" eyery="" duty;="" alepakind="" and-="" indul-="" gent;="" wjfe="" another.="" y="" deeply,="" sympathize="" i="" iwihf[the="" bereaved="" .husband.="" orphan="" childrenxdeprived="" of-a="" mother's="" love:&nd="" pro="" tecsng;iare,="" .trust="" xiord="" will="" succor="" themjp.tfm="" severn="" affliction.="" .="" ypujp.’t-<="" div="">the plains under a complication of difficulties,
proving their firmness in the faith of the Gos-
pel. The mother died a few years after their
arrival here, leaving the care of the younger
sister to Sister Godfrey, to whom she has been
mother, sister, counselor and friend. Sister
Godfrey has been a worthy and active member
of our Relief Society since its organization,
faithful to every duty; also a kind and indul-
gent wife and mother. We deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband and the orphan
children, deprived of a mother's love and pro-
tecting care, and trnst the Lord will succor
them[-] in this their severe affliction.
		M. G. YOUNG.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE are very grateful to our friend and
brother, C. R. Savage, Esq., of the Fine Art
Gallery, who presented us recently with an
excellent likeness of President John Taylor
neatly framed; we like to be remembered
in this way, and it is always pleasant to see
the faces of our friends looking down upon
us when at work in the office.

	PRESIDENT ELIZA R. Snow, accompanied
by Pres. M. Isabella Horne, of Salt Lake
Stake R. S., went to Pleasant Green, Brigh-
ton Ward, on Sunday the 9th inst., and
while there assisted Bishop Schoenfeld in
organizing a branch of the Relief Society
in that place. Sister Charlotte Hurst was
elected President, Sisters Ann Bertosh and
Frances Hardman, Counselors, Fanny Jen-
kins, Secretary, Alice Crockwell, Assistant
Secretary, and Sarah Coon, Treasurer.
This makes thirty-six branches of R. S. in
Salt Lake County.

	WE RECEIVED from our dear friend and
co-worker Mrs. Sara Andrews Sp[-]ncer, in
pamphlet form the Majority and Minor-
ity Report of the United States Senate Com-
mittee on Privileges and Elections for and 
against "A Sixteenth Amendment to the
Constitution prohibiting the several States
from disfranchising United States citizens
on account of sex. The Minority report
was made by Senators Hoar of Mass., Mitch-
ell of Oregon, and Cameron of Wisconsin.
The pamphlet arrived too late for us to
make much mention of it, but will give
our readers the opinions of the Minority
as soon as practicable in their own words.

	THE FIRST Quarterly Meeting of the
Primary Association of Farmington was
held in the Farmington Meeting House
Saturday, March 8th. Mrs. Aurelia Spen-
cer Rogers presiding. By invitation we
attended, accompanied by Mrs. Louie Felt
and Miss Maggie Freeze, the President and
Secretary of the 11th ward P. A. of this
city. There were 133 children present, and
good order and quiet was observed by all.
The exercises were short and very interest-
ing, especially the singing which was spirit-
ed and melodious. Mrs. Felt told them
something of the manner in which she con-
ducted her Association; the lady is a very

[Column 2]
pleasing speaker and cannot fail to interest
children. Miss Freeze, a child of 13, spoke
to that large assembly without hesitation;
it was wonderful to see this little girl
stand up and bear her testimony in such a 
sincere and earnest manner, and such a
growing interest among the young cannot
fail to bring about great and grand results.

	THE PRIMARY Association of the Elev-
enth Ward gave a grand Jubilee on Wed-
nesday evening, the 12th inst. Mrs. Louie
Felt with her counselors had charge of the
entertainment, and conducted it so perfectly
as to make it a grand success. Some of 
the children were only five years old, yet
performed their part nicely. The opening
scene was a chorus, "Sweet Bye and Bye,"
by seventy-five children, which was an in-
spiring melody chanted forth by so many
fresh young voices. The song Alice Ben
Bolt was rendered by a child five years old,
Laura Denney; she sang it through without
being prompted. There was a great variety
of songs, dialogues and recitations all by
little children. The performance closed
with the Charade of Matrimony, the part
of Lady's Maid was acted in a very charm-
ing and sprightly manner by Miss Maggie
Freeze. These Juvenile entertainments
wsll develop capabilities otherwise dormant
in the little folks, and they must have recre-
ation.


[Column 1]	
	RESPECT AND SELF-CONTROL.

	I am often led to reflect on the lack of
respect that is shown in our intercourse
with each other, especially among the most
intimately associated—husbands and wives,
parents and children, brothers and sisters,
and companions bound together by strong
and holy ties, are all more or less guilty;
and it always appeared strange to me that
disrespect should be more common among
those who have every reason to love, than
it is among friends or mere acquaintances.
It cannot spring from lack of affection, be-
cause it is often the case that those who
love most are the most guilty; as the poet
says,

	"Oft for our own the bitter tone,
	Tho we love our own the best."

	It does not spring from want of thought,
because we can nearly always be thoughtful
enough to avoid the error while in the pre-
sence of strangers; so I have to come to the
conclusion that the most fruitful source of
disrespect is the want of self-control. The
adversary often tries us sorely through our
nearest and dearest ones. 'Tis often they
who force us to drink the very dregs of bit-
terness, surely not because they design to
afflict us, but they do not gain the mastery
over the angry thought, or impatient word,
that always makes such deep wounds; for
though unkind words may fall apparently
unheeded, they never fail to make an un-
favorable impression.
	How often would we save ourselves the
humiliation of seeking forgiveness, if we
would seek to be governed more by princi-
ple and less by impulse. The older we
grow the more clearly will we see the beauty
and wisdom of self-control. It will shield
us from so many of the little vexatious
trials that spring entirely from our own
fault no matter how much we may think
others to blame. Some people pride them-
selves upon always "speaking as they feel;"
that is very good if they always feel right,
and if they do they must be exceptionally
good; but in case they should sometimes
feel as "cross as two sticks," gloomy and
impatient, they had better either be silent

[Column 2]
or "speak as they don't feel;" a little de-
ception might be better in such a case.
	We will never regret checking ourselves
when about to say something very sarcastic
and taunting, something which an evil
spirit would convince us was just the right
thing to say; but oh, how many times do
we regret the want of self-control and power
to resist the tempter. We are all capable
of inflicting pain, and often do even when
studying to avoid it, and the heart cannot
be right where there is premeditation. I
think we allow our personal feelings to in-
fluence us too much in our conduct toward
each other. We do not stop to consider a
person's age, their superior qualities and
the many claims they have upon our respect,
or even reverence, but should they offend
us, we consider ourselves perfectly justified
in treating them with any degree of disre-
spect that will satisfy a feeling of revenge,
for call it what you will it is revenge.
	Manifestations of our deep and tender
affection are not proper and wise at all
times, but respect and kindness are never
out of place; they are acceptable to all.
Especially should we be guarded in our de-
portment towards parents in the presence
of their children, for who feels capable of
bearing the responsibility of teaching, by
example, a child to disrespect its parents.
Doubtless all parents have failings that they
are striving hard to overcome, are they to
be discovered by their children? Who
would be cruel and heartless enough to
draw the vail aside, teach a child to disre-
gard that binding command to "Honor thy
father and thy mother?"
	Need I speak upon the duty of respect to
the aged? That should be among our first
lessons, and never lost sight of. There may
be things that we all understand, but it is
good and may be very profitable for some of
us to have our minds refreshed upon sub-
jects that so greatly affect our every day
happiness, and everthing that tends to our
peace and happiness is of the Gospel, and
should claim our study. May we each seek
to be guided by the Spirit of God in every
thought, word and action, and thus will we
be inspired to respect the rights, privileges
and feelings of each other, preserving peace
in our own hearts while we are laboring
here on earth for that never-fading crown
of glory that is laid up for those who falter
not by the wayside, but endure faithful to 
the end.
		LILLIE FREEZE.


FROM LAIE.

	The following items are from a private
letter written by Sister Jane E. Molen,
Feb. 5th, 1879.

	"I have just been preparing a mess of
string beans to cook for dinner; I think you
could enjoy our beans, raddishes and tur-
nips. We are having rains off and on every
day; our "dry Laie" is looking so green
and fresh it makes our Elders feel quite en-
couraged.	*	*	*	We are looking for
Brother Richards every day. He was well
when last heard from. The mission is
slowly progressing, the health of the Elders
usually good. Brother Alexander and wife
live with us; they are a nice intelligent
young couple. Sister Dean lives in the
yard, and we are all feeling first rate and
thankful things are so prosperous with us,
so far away from home and Zion. Brother
Molen joins in kind regards to yourself and
family, and to all friends who may inquire
after us"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	[Prom the "Philadelphia Times," Jan. 19, 1879.]
MORMON LADIES CALLING AT THE 
WHITE HOUSE.

	On Saturday, when Mrs Hayes had her first
reception, the two Mormon ladies, Mrs. Em-
meline B. Wells and Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Spencer, of this 
city and others called, and the President, when
they asked a hearing from him, appointed
Monday at 10 a. m.
	The two Mormon wives named, one of
whom, Mrs. Williams, is the daughter of Brig-
ham Young,and the other wife of Ex-Mayor
Wells, of Salt Lake, went to the White House
promptly at the hppolnted hour, accompanies
by Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage and Mrs. Spencer.
These two ladies and Mrs. Wells, of Utah, were
of the committee appointed by the Suffrage
Association. Miss Rachel C. Foster and Miss
Julia T. Foster, of Philadelphia, Miss Wood-
bury of this city, and myself were the only
others present during the interview with the 
P[-]esident, which began at the hour named.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hayes are punctual in keep-
ing appointments, although they frequently
make them for half-past 9 a. m.  Their house
is always in order, too, by that time.  The
bed-chambers into which Mrs. Hayes has some-
times taken me as early as 10 o'clock, look as if
no one had used them the previous night,
though all are occupied every night.
	The President invited the ladies named into 
the library, as being more secure from interrup-
tion than his office.  The resolutions of the 
Suffrage Associations were first read to him by
Mrs. Spencer and he listened with interest,
though he sometimes wore an amused smile as
he was reproached for his neglect in failing to 
mention the political, civil, or social rights of 
women. He occasionally asked questions cour-
teously, and I was amazed, having seldom wit-
nessed a similar interview, at the direct, con-
cise, forcible and yet invariably respectful re-
plies given by the ladies. They had evidently
carefully considered what they wished to say,
and said it as briefly as possible, determined to
lose nothing by boring their auditor (the only
man in the room), who was, on his part doing
the polite thing in every way. Is not this
progress when the chief of a great nation is
willing to receive from a band of women, ap-
pointed by women, suggestions as to affairs of
state and a reproach for past omissions?
	PLEA OF THE MORMON WIVES.
	But the beauty of the interview to me was
when the two Mormon ladies laid their case
before the President and he showed such
kindly sympathy with them when they proved
what misery would follow in Utah the enforce-
ment of the act of 1862 against polygamy.  He
told them he would not trust so important a 
matter to his memory of a verbal interview,
but wished them to put their case in writing
and lay before him.  He seemed pained, evi-
dently, reflecting how little he could do to help
them since the United States Supreme Court
has rendered a decision within a month against
polygamy in Utah.
	How favorable an impression the party pro-
duced on Mr. Hayes is best proved by his offer
to bring his wife in to see them, a proposition
gratefully accepted.
	I must not omit to mention just here that
while the ladies of the Suf[-]rage Association
showed a decided sympathy with the Mormen
ladies, who had stated that by the enforcement
of the act of 1862 many thousand women,
would be made outcasts and their children il-
legitimate before the world, Mrs. Gage and Mrs.
Spencer were careful to explain to the Presi-
dent exactly on what ground the National

[Column 2]
Woman's Suffrage Association had received
the Utah delegates.  They said the Association
must not be construed as taking part in any
other branch of the Mormon question except
that of female suffrage. The women of Utah
have enjoyed the right of suffrage and now 
Congress proposes to take it from them, and 
the Association which met here last week con-
tends that as Congress has repeatedly refused
to interfere with State or Territorial govern-
ments to grant suffrage to women, it should 
not interfere to take it away when local au-
thorities have conferred it.
	Mrs. Hayes heard the Mormon wives with
such earnest sympathy as to completely win
their hearts.  She listened and spoke to them
in a sisterly manner that aroused in all present
a feeling of reverence for her noble, womanly
nature. She invited the party to visit all the 
private apartments, and, when they left, sent
them through the conservatories.
		MISS GRUNDY.
THE WOMEN OF UTAH. MRS. BLAKE'S 
ANALYSIS OF THEIR PLEA FOR PO-
LYGAMY.
	At the recent National Woman Suffrage
Convention in Washington there were present
two delegates from the Territory of Utah. They
were Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, editor of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT of Salt Lake City, and
Mrs. Zina Young Williams, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young. They were both of them women
of culture, well dressed and well appearing.
Mrs. Wells was a lady of perhaps fifty, with a
pleasing, intellectual face. Mrs. Williams was
young and very good looking.  They were both
Mormons, apparently from devout, religious
belief, and had come East principally "plural
marriages," as they preferred to call their social
institutions.  In pusuance of this wish they
have within the last few weeks had several
hearing before the Judiciary Committee of
the Senate, on which they have presented their
views with force and clearness.
* * * * It was quite evident
that both these ladies were by conviction firm
believers in the divine origin of their faith,
and that they had in a large degree the tem-
perament that may perhaps be described as
eminently pious, or spiritual, in the best sense
of the word--a temperament which causes its
possessors to cling closely to their faith, and, if
necessary, to suffer martyrdom for it.  In
speaking of their peculiar institution they both
admitted that there were elements in it which
were painful to a woman's heart, but added
that they were doing what was ordained by
their religion, which commanded as a sacred
duty that they should share those attentions
which a selfish human instinct would cause
them to wish to retain undivided.
* * * * Mrs. Wells was careful
to say that they did not consider all men fitted,
either by nature or outward circumstances, for
plural marriage.  It was only men of principle,
of large, kindly hearts, who were proper per-
sons to have more than one wife. Nor did she
feel that this portion of their system was adapt-
ed to all communities, but thought it would be
especially desirable for rural regions where
women are in excess in the population, and
urged that in New England, for instance, the 
army of celibate women would be better off
as wives of good men, even though they shared
the honors, than passing to their graves in the
childless coldness of single life. We can fancy
that the dignified old maids of Massachusetts
would indignantly resent so base a suggestion,
[Column 3]
but we give it in justice to a really conscien-
tious thinker. * * *
	The women of Utah have enjoyed the right
of suffrage for eight years, and it was at first
supposed that political freedom would at once
cause them to tear off the yoke of polygamy;
yet this was surely a hasty conclusion, since
there was no more reason to think that giving
them the ballot would move them to disbelieve
in their religion than to imagine that men, on
reaching manhood and being able to vote
would change their religious convictions. We
do believe that political freedom cannot fail,
with the increased facilities for education, and 
freedom of thought which will accompany it,
to lead women gradually to throw off the
shackles of superstition, while their more spir-
itual uatures will still cause them to cling to 
all that is true and pure in religion; but it is
not to be expected that such a result will follow
at once, or that Mormon women, with their
most sacred affections twined about the insti-
tution of plural marriage would violently re-
pudiate it.  Yet the right of suffrage has al-
ready had for these women the most beneficial
results. It has led to the formation among
them of societies for mutual education and im-
provement. These associations meet through-
out the whole Territory, and women are con-
stantly employed in visiting the different so-
cieties to inform their members upon topics of
interest and importance. Already the influ-
ence of the women as a power is felt in the
body politic, while it is quite evident that free
thought on all topics is doing its work among
them. Of course it could not be expected that
they would make the first use of their liberties
by tearing down their homes, and the fact that
these Mormon women cling to these homes,
poor as they are, ought to silence forever those
objectors who maintain that enfranchising wo-
men would destroy the home.
`		LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
—The Evening Telegram, N. Y., Feb. 11, 1879.
	The extracts published above were written
by ladies whom we met while in Washington.
Miss Grundy (a fictitious name by the way)
boarded at the same hotel, consequently we
saw her often.  She is a pleasing and popular
writer, a regular correspendent of the "Phila-
dephia Times" and "Boston Herald," and al-
luded to us in both, in a way which was very
kind and thoughtful, and which we appreciat-
ed. She writes also for Washington papers,
and indeed I think her letters upon society are
worthy a place in any journal or magazine.
She mingles in the best society, and is there-
fore competent to write of it, and she is on in-
timate terms with Mrs. Hayes.  She is young,
and in every respect a very sensible girl, not
spoiled with flattery at all. She is general
favorite with the ladies at the hotel, and to us
she was extremely kind.
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake is very witty and
very sarcastic; our readers will remember we
have republished many of her scathing articles.
Mrs. Blake is uncommonly gifted, and as
shrewd a woman as we ever met. She dresses
well, and contrary to the general argument
used by men in regard to women who defend
the woman question on the public platform,
has a nice home and no doubt a happy one,
beautiful daughters, and a husband all her
own. She speaks for women everywhere boldly,
defiantly perhaps, but certainly positively.
She has written us fairly as one could who
stands outside and knows nothing of the spirit
of the latter-day work.  She says the women's
organizatiens here have originated from our
having the Ballot. This is an error we wish to
correct, but one that strangers who do not un-
derstand Mormon women's home-missionary


work would naturally fall into.  That we
should understand the principles of govern-
ment is essential in our opinion, whether we
enjoy the franchise or are denied its privileges.
Our sisters should seek to inform themselves in
regard to all the existing forms of government
and in fact the ancient patriarchal manner of
governing. There are abundant opportunities
given the women of our day to make them-
selves acquainted with politics, and it is not at
all probable, as Mrs. Blake has said, that en-
franchising women will destroy the home.  It
has been proven here that such is not the case;
for have not Latter-day Saint women voted
for nine years, and what complaint can be
brought to condemn woman suffrage from
their experience?  Friends of woman's suffrage
in the House and Senate remarked to us they
would protest against the suffrage being taken
from our women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	What extraordinary pains the Gentile la-
dies are taking to suppress that blotch on
the body politic, which we hold so sacred,
viz., Plural Marriage!  If there is anything
morally or religiously wrong in the practice
of it, it is to be hoped they will succeed;
that is, in view of their introducing a more
moral and elavating mode of carrying out
God's great command to multiply and re-
plenish the earth.  He endowed us with
principles and desires pertaining thereto,
and gave laws whereby it should be carried
out in purity.
	Marriage was instituted as a principle
whereby virtuous love might be fostered
and protected, all intercourse outside of that
being condemned as unlawful and unholy.
The marriage ceremony enjoins upon men
and women to be true to themselves and to
each other.  It is usual for either men or
women, after the death of their relative
spouse, to marry again, but according to
the doctrines of modern Christianity they
must not marry a second wife while the
first is living.  Death releases their obliga-
tions.  But the marriage tie as revealed in
these last days binds for time and for all
eternity; therefore, if a wife dies, her hus-
band must spend the remainder of his life
alone or must of necessity have a plurality
of wives.  It is not the law of God, neither
does it accord with woman's physical con-
stitution, that she should marry several
husbands at one time, but if the parties are
agreed and are true to each other, what is
there wrong or degrading in a man having
several wives?  If he supports them, ac-
knowledging their claims and raising their
children in respectability, what is there do-
grading in the principle?  In the olden
time men after God's own heart practiced
polygamy, and we read of jealousy and dis-
satisfaction sometimes arising, as is fre-
quently the case at the present time.  There
is also jealousy and dissatisfaction in mo-
nogamous life, the marriage relation being
frequently severed.  But that in no wise
condemns marriage, nor degrades the law
of home-ties and influence, of which mar-
riage, is the foundation, although the argu-
ment is often used by men who wish to live
single, for not entering into the marriage
relationship.
	Polygamy in a moral or religious view
we have no intention at present to discuss.
If people who practice it are all pure in
heart, or correct in their judgmont, are
matters we are not open to judge, and over
which we have no control; but when we
look around us and see the corruption in
the world, and our comparative free-
dom from licentious practices we are led to
infer that our systems and principles are by
no means to be condemned.  There is no
degree or condition in life but has its pecu-
liar trials connected therewith.  It is not
polygamy as a principle that our enemies
are exercised over, that is a mere pretence
-a handle with which to turn the rack
whereon they would stretch us morally, re-
gardless of the physical suffering it might
cause us to endure.
	It was long ago the cry that Mormonism
must be put down, no matter what the cost
of suffering, murder and rapine, it must be
put down.  But how?  That is a problem
they have vainly tried to solve for over forty
years, and the solution still seems a mys-
tery.  Do they not know that if not sup-
ported and protected by Almighty God, our
peculiar institutions must of themselves
die out in time, and that opposition but
fans the flame which they are trying so hard
to extinguish.  That by their slanderous
and unwarrantable attacks they bring us to
the notice of the thinking public, and peo-
ple will investigate our cause who have
never before given us much thought.
	Who are those that are coming to the
front with their abusive epithets and their
heroic efforts to overthrow our established
religion?  Pity their heroism was not ex-
ercised in a better cause.  The leaders en-
raged in this undertaking are many of them
of those who once professed to believe in
the same doctrines, who have borne their
testimony to the work; whose fathers,
mothers, or sisters have laid down their
lives, perhaps, while promulgating the doc-
trines they professed.  They have joined
hands with us in the bonds of sisterhood,
have sat at our firesides, and partaken of
our cheer; they have been protected and
sustained by the ties the bind a growing
community.  And now they would raise
their hands against us and strike a dagger
to our hearts.  Sisters, I know them, I am
personally acquainted with several of them.
My childhood was passed in their society,
and their names are connected with some
of my earliest recollections.  We danced
at the same parties, shared the same rustic
amusements, and the same religious ser-
vices.  We worshipped at the same altar
and prayed to the same God.  We saw
nothing then to shock our sense of proprie-
ty or interfere with our conscientious prin-
ciples.  Our paths have widened and sepa-
rated; what their experience has been I am
unable to say, but I will venture to suggest
that of all the strong language they use,
and the terms they apply to us, they know
comparatively nothing.  We have no home-
less waifs cast on the tender mercies of pub-
lic charity.  Our religion forbids infanti-
cide, and its institutions protect women
against it and its concomitant evils.  We
have no starving poor, no licensed dens of
gambling and infamy.  We are  sober, in-
dustrious people, trying to pursue the avo-
cations of daily life in peace and content-
ment; we ask only to be let alone, and that
we do most emphatically insist on.  We
want none of the modern vices which ouor
Gentile citizens are introducing into our
midst, but they are forced into our midst,
to the detriment of the manners and morals
of our young people.  I saw a pitiful sight
a few days ago while visiting in Salt Lake
City.  I saw two women locked in jail-
they had both been ruined and abandoned.
Was it polygamy that had done this?  I
assure you it was not.  Salt Lake City is
the only city in Utah that is to any extent
populated by the element that are so anx-
ious abont us-the pure (?) in heart who are
so shocked by our sense of morality that
they would fain bring a ranting mob into
our midst, and turn us from our homes and
firesides. And what for?  For advocating
those principles which protect virtue and
innocence. I would recommend that they
sweep the streets of Salt Lake City and
clear from among us the vices that attach
to their own apron strings, before they at-
tack a principle that in and of itself at least
protects its victims, if such they may be
called.  Let them watch their own hus-
bands, and find if their conduct will bear
inspection, before they take a course to rid
our "poor, deluded women" of their natural
protectors and open up an avenue in society
for more corrupting influences.
	Provo.	Mary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	My dear sisters of the Relief Societies
and friends of truth: This seems to be a
day fraught with great events; things that
have been plainly predicted by our Lord
and Savior, and also by all the holy pro-
phets both ancient and modern, are now
daily fulfilling before our eyes, and we see
the spirit that Jesus spoke of being made
manifest, even the spirit of betrayal, not
only among the Saints, but all over the
world, and no doubt that spirit will increase
more and more until the Savior comes.
How much it stands us in hand to watch
over ourselves and cultivate the Spirit of
God, and have our minds stored with that
eternal truth that will guide us in all the
acts of our lives. There are many things
coming along to try us to the very center,
and if our minds are not staid on God our
Father with faith and confidence, we may
give way in the hour that we would need
the most firmness and strength. My heart
is drawn out in prayer to my Father to pro-
tect His daughters from the influence of
this evil spirit, and to increase the light
and life of the Saints, that we may be
found on the watch-tower holding on to the
Rod of Iron, which is the word of God, and
be able to say as Jesus did, "The Prince of
this world cometh, but hath nothing in
me."
	We are a small Society here in Cedar
Fort, but we have embraced the same Gos-
pel that our sisters in Salt Lake City have,
and have gathered here for the same pur-
pose, namely, to be taught of the Lord and
to enjoy the blessings, ordinances and sa-
craments of His holy House; and when we
heard of the Anti-Polygamy Crusade, our
President called a Mass Meeting of the two
settlements, and we drafted resolutions
corresponding with the faith of the Gos-
pel that we have received, resolved to
to stand by the revelations that we have re-
ceived from the Lord through Joseph Smith
the Prophet, by the help and assistance of
our Father and God, trusting in His Al-
mighty arm for protection, firmly believing
that He is able to save to the uttermost all
those who put their trust in Him. We there-
fore had a desire to be represented in your
valuable paper.
	Hoping that the blessings of God may
rest upon your labors, and upon the lawful
labors of all the daughters of Zion is the
prayer of your sisters in the Gospel of peace,

Sophronia Cook, President, R. S.

S. J. Meeks,	}	Counselors,
P. Rodeback,	}

Martha Wilcox, Secretary,
Elizabeth Berry, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER

			No. 2652 OLIVE STREET.
		St. Louis, Mo. Feb. 20th, 1879.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS : — DEAR
	MADAM:
	I have been authorized and requested to
give notice that the annual meeting of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will
be held at St. George's Hall, corner of 7th
and Locust streets, St Louis, on the 7th,
8th and 9th days of May next; on which
occassion you are most cordially invited
and requested to be present.
	It is believed that the time is auspicious
for making this the most important meet-
ing of the Association ever held, for which
purpose no efforts will be spared to make
the attendance as large and influential as
possible, so that it may prove to be a veri-
table "Ecumenical Council" of the friends
of Woman's enfranchisement. I am as-
sured that delegates will be in attendance
from every section of the country, more
especially from the South, and what is term-
ed, the Great North-West
	I have every reason to believe that the
Convention will be well worth your attend-
ance, and do much to speed the cause we
have so much at heart.
	Every attention will be paid to delegates,
and accommodations secured for them, as
far as possible, in private families.
	I trust you will give this notice as wide
a publicity as possible, and inform me
whether or not, you will attend.
	With much respect,
			Yours Truly,
				VIRGINIA L, MINOR,
			Vice President for Missouri


THE HARP IN HEAVEN.

	One of the sweetest recollections of my
girlhood is a beautiful reply my mother
once made me, when my heart was swell-
ing with childish grief.
	I had just returned from the house of a
wealthy neighbor, who had kindly given
me the use of their piano for a few hours
every day to gratify my extreme love for
music. Our own cottage home looked so
plain in contrast with t[-]e one I had just
left, and no piano within its walls, I laid
my head upon the table and gave vent to my
overflowing heart. I felt grieved, and per-
haps a little angry, that we were unable to
afford the one thing I desired above all
others—a piano—and expressed my feel-
ings to my mother.
	Never shall I forget her sweet, gentle
tone, as she simply replied, "Never mind,
daughter, if you cannot have a piano on
earth, you may have a harp in heaven."
Instantly the whole current of my feelings
was changed. Earthly things dwindled
into insignificance, and the "harp in heav-
en," with its golden strings, became the
object of my desire. I felt reproved for my
repinings against the Providence that had
placed me in a humble home, and from
that moment the enjoyment of heaven
seemed far to outweigh all the plesures of
earth. That beautiful reply has followed
me all my life, or rather has gone before
me like a bright guiding star—lifting my
thoughts above this transient life, and
opening to my spirit's vision the glorious
scenes in that "land of life and light." I
have a "piano on earth" now, but its charm
is gone. Its music no longer gladdens my
heart as it once did, for the ears that loved
best to listen to its sweet tones, are now
enraptured with the grand harmonies of


heaven. The dear fingers that so often
touched its keys now sweep the golden
harp-strings. O, that "harp in heaven!"
How my soul longs for one breath of its
rich melody!
	As I look upon the dear baby fingers in
the cradle near me' I think it matters little
whether my child be poor or rich—whether
her path be strewn with thorns or flowers—
if she may only have a "harp in heaven."
—Mother's Journal.


GENGHIS KHAN AND THE OWL.

	Nearly seven hundred years ago, a
young Mongolian prince named Genghis (or
Zinghis) while engaged in warfare with a
Tartar tribe, was defeated in battle, and so
hotly chased by his enemies that he was
like to be captured. His shattered defend-
ers lost sight of him, and he fled alone in
momentary peril of death. Exhausted at
last, and with scarcely a hope of saving
himself, he plunged into a thicket, and lay
listening with beating heart while the Tar-
tars came on, raging for his blood. They
knew he had disappeared somewhere in
the immediate vicinity, and to his horror
they stopped directly before his hiding-
place. Instead of searching the bushes,
however, they held a short consultation
and passed on; and from the words he over-
heard, Genghis learned the cause of his de-
liverance. As the pursuers approached, a
white owl was seen sitting calmly on a tree
directly over the thicket. It flew away,
frightened at their appearance and noise,
and the barbarian warriors said, "If the
man had been here, that bird would have
been disturbed before. Let us go on."
	And so Genghis was saved, to become
one of the conquerors of the world, and Em-
peror of all Tartary and Northern China and
Eastern Persia. In grateful remembrance
of his preservation, he and his followers
adopted the snowy owl as their guardian
ensign, and ever after the picture of the
bird was displayed on the Mongol and Kal-
muck battle-flags.				T. B.
—EX.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVIN[-] DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES OF
Ladies' Bows in Silk Lace, Ties, a large varie-
	ty of Collars, Cuffs, Ribbons, an excellent
	variety, Dress Goods, and in fact everything
	you want in general merchandise. Confer-
	ence visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!
P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE

	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M.I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW FALL STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.

FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
Salt Lake Ciy.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL.
Wishing to accomodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 7	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1879.		No. 21.


CHARITY.

		A PLEA FOR PRODIGALS.

	Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.—
Jesus' words.

	And though I bestow all my goods to feed the POOR, and
though I give my body to be burned and have not Charity
it profiteth me nothing.—St. Paul.

Out in the wilderness, out in the night,
By misfortune or misery mystified quite;
From one evil fleeing and turning aside
To evils still greater, unseen and untried;
Dangers behind them, before and below—
How shall the erring know which way to go?

There are serpents too subtle to warn ere they sting,
There are serpents that charm ere upon you they spring;
The wise may escape, but the simple and young
Too oft are betrayed by the flatterer's tongue;
Evil designers that speak you so fair,
More to be dreaded than howling wolves are.
You may arm and prepare for a clamorous foe,
But these silent ones aim to destroy at a blow;
Like the treacherous tiger, remorseless to slay—
Creeping and crouching to pounce on their prey—
The tender and trusting and feeble they seek,
'Tis the nature of brutes to destroy what is weak.
If oppressor, or tempter, assaileth the strong,
There is power, there is force to resist what is wrong.
Since Eve in the garden did Satan believe,
He knows very well who and how to deceive.
For an innoc[-]nt woman an apple sufficed;
But the world and its treasures was offered to Christ;
Who else would have measured the enemy's chain,
Or refused with a word such a princely domain?
All have not the wisdom and courage combined
To say to the tempter "Hence, get thee behind."
Temptations that move not the prosperous few
Oft try others poorer, more honest and true;
Full many would stumble who never did fall.
If they ever were troubled and tempted at all;
And many would err that in goodness delight,
If they trusted no God to direct them aright;
The soul like the body would oft be crushed down,
If He looked not in mercy instead of a frown.

Lo! in the edge of the desert a gleam!
Look up! thou lost one, a light it doth seem;
Pray! that the light may be steady and clear;
Pray! that thy duty may plainly appear.
Oh! there is One watching over thee now
Whose pity extendeth to all such as thou,
Trust Him to guide thee, nor fear aught amiss,
The tiger's fierce growl, or the serpent's low hiss;
Courage, press forward thy troubles shall end,
And thou shalt be safe in the house of a friend.

Open the door, for the night it is dreary;
Open the door for the weak and the weary;
Open it quickly and welcome them in—
Many are sinned against more than they sin.
"Judge not," said Jesus, be merciful too,
Lest ye be judged by one greater than you.
Hold the light downward, the lost silver seek,
Then call in the neighbors, the kind and the meek,
And rejoice that "'tis found," for our Father above
Declared, through a being of infinite love,
That more joy was felt by the angels divine
O'er a lost one restored than o'er ninety and nine
So screened from the storm in a sheltering fold,
Safe even in darkness from dangers untold,
Without a temptation to stray from the track,
Too faithful, or favor'd, to want to turn back.

Who never was tried, or betrayed with a snare,
Or lost in the night of oppression and care,
Or felt what the erring or tempted endure,
Should censure but lightly; compassion doth cure.
Enough, that a merciful God gives command
To extend to the penitent freely the hand.
Shall we, Pharisee-like, dare to boastingly say,
"We thank Thee, O Lord, we are better than they?"

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.

	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Why do the Heathen rage, and the peo-
ple imagine a vain thing? The kings of
the earth set themselves, and the rulers
take counsel together, against the Lord, and
against his anointed saying, "Let us break
their bands asunder, and cast away their
cords from us." Psalms, ii 1, 2, 3.
	I am reminded of this saying of David's,
when I hear and also read, the acts of Con-
gress (the bills before that body) for the
destruction of this people, they seem very
fearful that the prophets words will be lit-
erally fulfilled. (I wonder if they read the
Bible) They are doing all they can to ful-
fill the decrees of Jehovah, whether they
know it or not.
	The Jews said, in the day of Jesus, that
if we let him alone, all men will believe in
him, and the Romans shall come and take
away our place and nation. John, xi 43.
	In 1830 this church was organized; it
numbered very few members, but it re-
ceived the same attention then, from the
Clergy, as it now does from the Govern-
ment, of the nation. They wished to crush
it in its infancy, it was then said of us,
"these Mormons are preaching to the Indi-
ans, they are in opposition to the govern-
ment, they vote to one interest, they are
going to protect their homes and their
families, we will drive them, we will exter-
minate them.
	In 1844 this feeling of enmity had spread
through Missouri and into the State of Ill-
inois. They took the prophets of God, Jo-
seph and Hyrum Smith, and did unto them
that which they had long desired, they
murdered them while under the protection
of the Governor of the State of Illinois; and
that same Governor, Thomas Ford, in a long
message to the House of Representatives,
screened the murderers. (one of his plea's
reads thus:)
	"But the great cause of popular fury was,
that the Mormons at several preceeding
elections had cast their votes as a unit." (As
if American citizens are not free to vote as
they choose). Unity is a crime when con-
nected with religion, according to the views
of Governor Ford and others of his class,
and will bring violence and mobocracy.
These enemies of the Mormons understand
that unity is strength, and they say if we
can divide them, bring discord among
them, follow Balaams advice, send an army
among them of young men, to seduce their
wives and daughters, and corrupt them, we
can overthrow them, and then we can feast
ourselves, as wolves on the carcasses of
the slain.
	But they know not the way of the Al-
mighty. The wicked shall not always
triumph. The Lord will come out of his
hiding place, and vex the nations in his
sore displeasure, when their cup of iniquity
is full. The Lord has spoken it by the
mouth of his holy prophets.
	But now here is another thing that must
be attended to (this polygamy) O. S. Holis-
ter Esq. in a question to President Taylor,
inquired, was not the great object, of the
institsution of polygamy to rapidly increase
the numbers of adherents to the chruch?

[Column 2]
	What could have induced that question?
	Is he and Congress, afraid that this peo-
ple will increase so fast that they out-num-
ber their enemies?
	Pharaoh was afraid of the Israelites, in
the same way and he commanded all the
male children born among the Israelites, to
be put to death. Exodus i I6: But he did
not thwart the purposes of God, though he
put into execution this cruel law.
	Herod, when the wise men were seeking
for the child Jesus endeavored by crafti-
ness, to learn where he was that he might
kill him. But an angel warned Joseph in
a dream, to take the young child and his
mother, and flee into Egypt. And then
Herod * * slew all male children that
were in Bethlehem, and in all the coast
therof from two years old and under. *
Matthew ii 16.
	How determined he was to bring to
naught, the purposes of God, how signally
he failed, and what a miserable death he
died. Acts xii 23.
	This is the work of God, and man with
all his devices cannot overthrow it.
								KANAB.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEORGE ELIOT is in poor health, and will
probably write no more novels.—EX.
	JANE EYRE dramatized has been present-
ed upon the stage in Lowell, Mass. by Gen-
evieve Ward.
	IT IS said Queen Victoria has expressed
a great desire to visit Canada. Report
says her son the Prince of Wales is encour-
aging her to do so and also to visit the
United States.
	IN Philadelphia, March 13, at the annual
commencement of the Woman's Medical
College, the degree of Doctor of Medicine
was conferred on twenty lady graduates
from various States in the Union.—EX.
	PRINCESSE LOUISE MARGARET, of Prussia
was married, March 13th, to Queen Vic-
toria's son Arthur, Duke of Connaught, at
Windsor Castle. The affair was exceeding-
ly brilliant, and the English papers dovote
column after column to the dresses of the
ladies and the elegant paraphernalia of the
whole affair.
	THE bill for Woman Suffrage in Colorado
passed the Senate, and in the House the
vote stood seventeen to tweny-four, and
not fifty-four as the Denver "Tribune" re-
ported. So that there was only a majority
of seven against it. Judge Haynes cham-
pioned the bill and earned the thanks of all
women, as did others who rendered good
service.—EX.
	ANNA METZ Byland's "Women of Pro-
gress" a neat little paper of four pages is
now in its first volumn. We have just
received a copy the first we have ever seen
of it, it is full of interesting reading matter
and certainly deserves patronage. One of
its mottoes is; If the public want firstrate
newspapers they must pay for them liberal-
ly. We should be pleased to have the pa-
per added to our list of exchanges, as we
have no WOMAN'S paper published in the
City of New York.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

					KANAB, Jan. 20, 1879.

	The Annual meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty of Kanab was held in the Schoolhouse,
Dec. 5th, 1878, at 2 p. m., Mrs. Harriet
Bunting presiding. After the usual exer-
cises and reading of minutes the Financial
report was read as follows:

Receipts.............................................$ 80 00
Profit on work...................................   46 20
								———
		Total					126 20
	Disbursements.
To the poor........................................      2 35
To Manti Temple...............................    28 50
For stationery....................................          50
								———
		Total disbursements              31 35

	In the Treasury:
Merchandise......................................     35 68
Sundries.............................................      22 07
Cash....................................................        5 60
Wheat, 21 bu.....................................      31 60
								   ———
		Total					    94 95

	Mrs. Elizabeth H D. Solomon resigned
her office as Treasurer, on account of mov-
ing to Arizona, and Mrs. Lovina A. Farns-
worth was appointed Treasurer, and Mrs.
Sabina A. Oliphant Assistant Secretary.
	President Bunting spoke upon the neces-
sity of duty and obedience and of listening
to the still small voice, and said the plan of
life and salvation is well defined. Sisters,
let us walk therein!
	Pres. Elizabeth Nuttall exhorted the sis-
ters to duty, and they would have faith
given them to rebuke sickness in the name
of Jesus. Coun. Lucy A. Johnson spoke
upon secret prayer.
Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun., said we were
placed here to beautify the earth and to do
good. No blessing is oblained without la-
bor. The sisters, through their faithful-
ness, can do a vast amount of good. Let
them seek for the Spirit of the Lord, and
they will have faith to obtain any blessing
they need. There had been fifty cases of
Typhoid fever in Kanab, and only one
death; the Lord had blessed the people
through the administration of the Elders.
Let us be very thankful for these blessings,
and give God the glory.
	After singing and prayer meeting ad-
journed.
	The sisters of Kanab have just com-
menced to store up grain. We have lumber
to make a temporary granary, and hope the
coming season to do much more.
	We appreciate the privilege of living
where we have no contaminating influences
to contend with. We fully endorse the
sentiments and resolutions of our sisters
North, which we have seen published. We
are determined to defend our rights and
uphold the principles of our holy religion,
including Plural Marriage.

				KANAB, March 18, 1879.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of Kanab Stake of Zion was held
in the Kanab Schoolhouse, March 7, 1879,
Mrs. E. Nuttall presiding. The presidents
of the different wards were present, and
each gave a good report. Various subjects
were spoken of by the sisters, and we had
a very good meeting; the Spirit of the
Lord was in our midst.
	By the counsel of Pres. L. J. Nuttall, Sis-
ter Mary Judd, of this place, planted quite
a number of mulberry trees, and she has at
the present time fifteen ounces of cocoons

[Column 2]
and five ounces of eggs; we intend to do
what we can to start sericulture here.
	Wishing our valuable paper success in
every sense of the word,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					M. E. LITTLE, Sec'y.

	Report of Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association from first organiza-
tion up to Dec. 10, 1878. The Y. L. M. I.
A. of Brigham City was organized July 30,
1875, by Miss E. R. Snow. Number of
members, 235. We generally had a good
attendance, and a lively interest was mani-
fested in the various exercises.
	March 13, 1878, a special meeting was
called by Miss E. R. Snow, when it was
csnsidered policy to dissolve and re-organ-
ize, having an association in each of the
four wards of Brigham City, and effecting,
at the same time, a Stake Organization.
There are eleven organizations, nine of
which reported at the Conference, showing
a membership of 420, and giving the fol-
lowing financial report of the Stake:
Donations received...................$1299 70
Wheat stored........................121bu., 38lb.
	Disbursements.
For Wheat...................................$ 33 60
Temple........................................ 177 90
Books and various charitable pur-
	poses................................. 1043 70
Remaining in Treasury............   144 60
		MINNIE J, SNOW, Superintendent,
		LYDIA A. SNOW, Becording Sec'y.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
TO THE LADIES OF THE ANTI-
POLYGAMY CRUSADE.

	There has been so much talk from press,
and pulpit,and from ladies opposite of prin-
ciples, that I thought I would say a few words
to them on the subject of Polygamy. Now
these ladies and the clergy profess to be
Christians, and I wonder that they oppose
that which is so clearly set forth in the
New Testament as this subject is. Chris-
tians signify that they are the followers of
Christ; if they are they cannot consistently
denounce Polygamy. "And if ye be
Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed and
heirs, according to the promise. (Galatians,
iii, 29.) The promise to Abraham was that
he should have a numerous posterity. In
the 12th chap. of Genesis, 2 verse it reads:
"And I will make of thee a great nation,
and I will bless thee and make thy name
great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I
will bless them that bless thee and curse
him that curseth thee; and in thee shall all
families of the earth be blessed."
	22d chap., 17th and 18th verses, the Lord
says: "In blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the
stars of the heavens and as the sand which
is upon the sea shore, and thy seed shall
possess the gate of his enemies; and in thy
seed shall all the nations of the earth be
blessed, because thou hast obeyed my
voice." The same promise is given to Isaac,
and also to Jacob. We find no promise of
this kind made to any one but Abraham and
his seed. Now to Abraham and his seed
were the promises made; He saith not to
seeds, as of many, but as one. "And to
thy seed, which is Christ." (Gal., iii, 16.)
27th verse—"For as many of you as have
been baptized into Christ, have put on
Christ." 29th verse—"And if ye be Christ's
then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs ac-
cording to the promise." Then you see
you are adopted (through being baptized
into Christ) right into the family of a po-

[Column 2]

lygamist; and Jesus Christ himself honored
the family of that polygamist, Abraham.
Paul says: "For verily He took not on Him
the nature of an angels, but He took on Him
the seed of Abraham." (Hebrews, ii, 16.)
Abraham is called the father of the faithful
and the friend of God; those appellations
themselves are treasures.
	Seeing that Jesus took not on Him the
nature of angel, but the seed of Abraham,
we find Him teaching repentance and bap-
tism, which ordinance adopts them into
the family of Abraham, for as many as are
baptized into Christ have put on Christ, and
if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's
seed, &c. "Know ye, therefore, that they
which are of faith, the same are the chil-
dren of Abraham." "And the Scripture,
foreseeing that God would justify the heath-
en through faith, preached before the
Gospel unto Abraham, saying: In thee
shall all nations of the earth be blessed. So
they which be of faith are blessed with
faithful Abraham." (Gal., iii, 7, 8, 9.) "That
the blessings of Abraham might come upon
the Gentiles, through Jesus Christ." (14th
verse.) Now, if we are the followers of
Christ we cannot discard our polygamic fa-
thers. Isaiah says, 14th chap., 8 v., "But
thou, Israel, art my servant Jacob, whom I
have chosen, the seed of Abraham my
friend. If we have no connection with
these polygamous families, we must indeed
be outcasts, for there is no promise made to
any one else. Now, I would ask those LA-
DIES who oppose us if they are willing to
fight against this principle, seeing that in
doing so they fight against Christ? Con-
sider well before you decide; do not be led
to persecute those who are honestly and
truly fulfilling the command of God, and
have been adopted into the family of Abra-
ham, who, God says, "obeyed my voice and
kept my charge, my commandments, my
statutes and my laws." (Gen., xxvi, 5.)
There is a great deal more might be told
from the New Testament than has been
used in these few remarks. How is it pos-
sible that men who profess to preach the
Gospel are so blind that they cannot see
that Jesus and his Apostles sanctioned po
lygamy.
		KANAB.
	March 17, 1879.


PROVOKING CHIROGRAPHY.— Professor
S——, whose loss is deeply lamented in the
scholastic circles of New York, was at one
time a highly valued contributor to the
journal of which he afterward took charge,
and being one day introduced to its editor,
was greeted with every expression of cor-
diality and respect. It was a great pleasure
to meet one whose learning and services
had been, etc., etc. "But, professor," add-
ed the editor, turning upon him and seiz-
ing his hand with sudden earnestness, and
with solemnity in his face, "I hope you
pray for my printers!"
	The professor replied that he was very
happy to offer his prayers in behalf of any
who were in need of them; but what was
the special urgency in this case? "Ah!"
answered the editor, shaking his head im-
pressively, "if you could but hear them
swear when they get to work on your man-
uscript!"—Harper's Magazine for January.


A LADY in Hungary owns the distaff
used by Marie Antoinette during her im-
prisonment. It is of wood and ivory inlaid
with silver, and still is wound with the
flax left upon it by the ill-fated queen on
the eve of her execution.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE VOICES.

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO AUNT EM.

FIRST.—
Gone from my heart is the sunlight of gladness,
	Gone from my soul is the music of your,
For mine eyes are oft dim with warm dews of sadness,
	And I sigh for the presence of one gone before.

In the springtime and spring of her life she was taken,
	When the pitying tears of young April wer shed
O'er the slumbering germlets of May, to awaken
	The sentinel flowers to vigil the dead.

And the daintiest blossom of God's lower Eden—
	Fair centre and setting of purity's wreath—
When the spring heralds welcomed the life-giving season,
	Was slain by the frosts of the winter of death.

Ah, many to spare were our hearts better willing,
	Than the soul in whose beauty all others were blest,
But "Death loves a bright mark" and ever is filling
	His graves with the spirits of those we love best.

SECOND:—
Their spirits? Ah no, for the Gospel of heaven
	A promise of glorious destiny gives—
Time's comforing balm and eternity's leaven—
	Which tells thee, sad mourner, thy dear one still lives,

'Tis only the clay that now slumbers beneath us,
	For death o'er the spirit no sceptre can sway;
And both shall unite yet again to bequeath us
	The joy of re-union at some future day.

For the mortal but rests on a motherly pillow
	While its spirit mate shines like a jewel on high,
E'en as glimmering stars in the depths of the billow
	Have their twin fires sparkling aloft in the sky.

To the future then, heart, turn for ne'er ending gladness,
	And music lorn soul for the sweetness of yore,
Where the warm light of hope drys the fountains of sad-
		ness,
	And life is all spring and the spring evermore.
									ANONYMOUS.
	S. L City, Sept. 10, 1878.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Without discussing the vexed question
of "what is woman's work and what is her
sphere," we will assume that it is her duty
and privilege to do whatever she can that
will promote the advancement and eleva-
tion of her own sex. We particularly be-
lieve her life work is most specially needed
and appropriate among women and chil-
dren. It is not within the capacity of our
minds to become familiar with every sci-
ence which may be of service in the course
of a lifetime, so that it becomes necessary
that some shall give particular atteniton
to one branch and some to another, each
constituting a factor of the whole. As the
preservation of life and health is of so much
importance to us all, a general knowledge
of our own organization cannot fail to be a
source of satisfaction as well as an actual
benefit to every one. If medical knowledge
to a certain degree was a part of every
daughter's education, she would be far bet-
ter fitted to fulfill her future destiny as
wife and mother, and she would know
more about the infant on her bosom than
that it is a little form of throbbing clay and
that she loves it; and there might be fewer
little mounds in the "City of the Dead."
It is only the few comparatively whose
taste it is, to make a life study of the hu-
man system, and the diseases and acci-
dents peculiar thereto; but with intelli-
gence, reason, integrity of heart and the
pure motive to do good with their might
wherever they go, this factor of the com-
munity is as invaluable and necessary as
any other. It requires long and close ap-
plication to the standard text works of this
branch of science to lay the necessary
ground-work foundation upon which to
build future observations and experience.
	It is neither safe not right for any one
[Column 2]

with a smattering knowledge picked up
promiscously to undertake the practice of
medicine, and go forth to hold the balance
of life and death in their unskillful hands,
too often unnecessarily resulting in the des-
olation of hearts and homes. I do not by
any means depreciate sound practical ex-
perience, for it is of great value and in
newly settled countries it is often an im-
perative duty for those having the nerve
and natural ability, to reach forth and as-
sist suffering humanity; but whoever finds
it her lot to fill such a responsible and im-
portant position in a community, should
feel it an incumbent duty to thoroughly
prepare herself at her earliest opportunity
for such an important work. Some may
say if we live right we will need no doc-
tors which is theoretically true, but where
is there one who can live in this fallen es-
tate without hygienically or physically
making a mistake or mishap sometime.
Nature herself often makes most grevious
errors entirely incapable of spontaneous or
natural rectification requiring the most
cultivated skill to meet the emergency.
	Our reason, the greatest gift of God to
man was given us for cultivation and our
life here on earth presents a series of oppor-
tunities of transforming circumstances into
eternal knowledge. Progress is the key-
stone of heavenly thought and plan, and for
an individual to live and die without the
world being the better for it, comes short
of the object of their existence. True knowl-
edge no matter of what science or art is
given man of God, and every acquisition
which advances us one step should only
broaden our reason and strengthen our be-
lief (which is simply physical knowledge.)
in the existence of God, and of our unbound-
ed obligations to him. True medical knowl-
edge can never corrode the soul or unfit us
for usefulness in any way. It is said in Holy
Writ that "faith without works is dead,"
and it is a matter of correct observation
that good intelligent common sense-work
is very frequently a most excellent subor-
dinate to faith.
	In every growing community there seems
to soon develop the need of a hospital de-
voted more especially to the interest of wo-
men and children, and this is now being
felt among us. It would be a place where
those, especially from a distance, needing
surgical or special medical attention could
come and have every care from physcians
and nurses. Such an Institution would
also afford most excellent opportunities for
a class of students to gain a partial knowl-
edge of medicine. (A college being requir-
ed for a thorough education) and also there
would be facilities for establishing a train-
ing school for nurses, than which there is
no greater need at the present time. Could
not such an institution be organized and
carried on under the auspices of the Latter-
day Saint ladies of Utah? It may be said
"it will require so much money"—It will
certainly require a considerable sum, but
an enterprise with such far reaching benefits
and one in which all can have individual
interests upon the co-operative plan,certain-
ly can, by the united effort of so large a
community as ours, combine the numerous
small efforts into one efficient whole. To
accomplish this it only needs that a com-
pany of active managers take the matter
in hand, and lay it before the people. It
is to be hoped that every Latter-day Saint
woman in Utah and adjacent settlements
will think on this subject, and use her in-
fluence in its behalf, that at no distant day
the result may prove a living success, and
inasmuch as the interests of the Latter-
day Saint men and women are ever mu-

[Column 3]

tual, it is also hoped that the brethren will
extend their influence and material aid in
promoting this much-needed and laudable
enterprise. In the meantime our only al-
ternative is for classes to form, and be taught
according to our best circumstances until
better facilities can be furnished.
			ROMANIA B. Pratt, M. D.


PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.

OF THE LADIES OF HYRUM.

	Whereas, We the women of the Church
of Jesus Chrsst of Latter-day Saints have
been misrepresented to the nations by
Christian Missionary Ladies dwelling in
our midst, in regard to our most holy re-
ligion. We do hereby declare most solemn-
ly our true sentiments.

	Resolved; that we the women of Hyrum
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints earnestly endorse the
sentiments of the ladies of Salt Lake, St.
George and other places that have reported
through the EXPONENT and with them
claim the privilege to practice the princi-
ples of our holy religion, and God being
our helper we will sustain and co-operate
with our husbands, fathers and sons in
obeying every principle of the gospel we
have embraced.

	Resolved; that we solemnly avow our
full faith in the doctrine of Celestial Mar-
riage established by the command of our-
Heavenly Father and knowing his promis-
es to the faithful, we endorse it as one of
the most important principles of our holy
religion and claim the right to put it in
practice.

	Resolved; that we will obey the com-
mands of God and leave the result with
him. That we protest against the enact-
ment of any law that deprives American
citizens, whether male or female of any con-
stitutional rights.

	Resolved; that we take this opportunity
to tender our thanks to the ladies of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association,
who have bravely defended our cause in
the halls of Congress, and that we appre-
ciate the labor of our own lady delegates
who have braved the world in defence of
our religion.

	Resolved; that we respectfully suggest
that those ladies opposed to our institutions
keep their sympathy for the poor unfortu-
nate outcast women and fatherless children
in the cities of the world, as we by the
help of God can take care of ourselves, and
don't need their assistance. We wish to
say that although we are late we are never-
theless in earnest and wish to have a
voice with the rest of our sisters.

		C. Liljenquist President,
		N. M. Neilsen,	} Secretaries.
		E. Wight,		}


MRS LYNN LINTON is engaged on a new
book that is shortly to be published. The
subject is the influence of clergy on women,
and the story is a fight between a husband
and a ritualistic cleagyman for influence
over the wife of the former.—EX.


A NEW paper edited by a woman is issued
at Louisville Kentucky by Mrs. H.E. Housh;
it contains reports of the work of women and
supports the idea that work is as honorable
for women as for men. Her son a young
man of seventeen years does her printing.
It is very neatly executed on fine paper.


218		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
NOBLE WORK FOR WOMEN.

	There has never been a reform of any sort in
the history of the world but has been met
with opposition. All new discoveries, of what-
ever name or nature, all new truths, no matter
what divine power they may possess, or what
elements of reform they may embody, or en-
gender, are sure to meet a storm of ridicule and
disputation. Every movement which makes
any advance, every new ray of light that
comes into the intellectual world, and irradi-
ates the darkness which has heretofore en-
shrouded the mind, is met with an opposing in-
fluence which it must have the courage to
overcome. Peradventure it is faint as a rush-
light, and the strong atmosphere of concentra-
ted ages snuffs it out, but the enthusiasm of
the individual, or individuals, which inspired
and made it glow even faintly rekindles it, and
by and by, after repeated effort, it gathers
sufficient vital force and power to shed its rays
abroad. A few who possess a latent spark of
the love of truth and light may gradually be-
come enlightened, and thus little by little the
reform, which grows out of new truths finding
place in the bosom of mankind, forces itself
upon society, and one by one the iron bars
which hedge in the old-time customs wear
away, and the revolution of a new age and the
inventions of its people are understood and
appreciated.
	There has never been any breaking away of
the silken cord which binds woman to the pro-
prieties and delicacies of that life which in
times gone by every mother marked out for her
daughter, saying, "Thus far shalt thou go and
no farther;" but some great alarm has been
raised, and the cry is heard, "stepping out of
her sphere," and evil prophecies and the de-
struction of home and total disregard of pro-
priety and womanliness are apprehended by
those who cannot bear to see the removal of
any old land-mark, but who desire to protect
women in their weakness and keep them
within the pale marked out by mankind in
past ages, ere they had so far advanced as to
appreciate or comprehend woman's ability, or
strength of soul. This is a new dispensation;
men should remember this fact, and women
too, and that this new dispensation is for wo-
man as well as man. Then, when men ad-
vance with rapid strides do they expect women
to stand still? If woman bears the noble souls
who are to reform and regenerate the earth,
she herself must possess, in a large degree, this
redeeming and regenerating power and influ-
ence to impart it to her posterity.
	Mechanism has supplied, in a wonderful de-
gree facilities for the farmer, the tradesman,
the man of business; has it done nothing to
favor woman? That would be unjust indeed—
but it is not so. The generation of women a
hundred years ago must not only perform ma-

[Column 2]
ternal and household duties, but must spin,
weave, dye, and afterwards knit and sew, make
and mend, and many other things that are not
now expected, or necessary. New inventions
have been made that lighten in an immense
degree the labor of this kind, once wholly per-
formed by hand. Man's work is thus lessened,
woman's housewifely duties are proportionate;
men have more time to devote to science and
literature, what then of women? Have they
not talents and gifts of a high order to develop?
Who will say us nay? Why then should a
limit be set to their culture, or a boundary to
their education? And above all else, why
should women themselves seek to draw tighter
the silken cord, because perchance not even a
rushlight of higher intelligence has entered
into their life, so shaded by the towering oak
to which they cling, that until the darkness of
the whole forest is illuminated they are unable
to discern, that here and there are lamps burn-
ing, with oil in them, but believe woman's
highest prerogative is to "learn of her husband
at home;" or perchance another class live in
constant fear of Mrs. Grundy. Is there not a
wide field of labor which it is scarcely possible
for men to comprehend, even if they had the
inclination? God has endowed woman with
faculties and instincts, with the right of con-
science inherent in her soul. No one doubts
the propriety of woman's being an active
member in the Church, in the Sunday School
and all benevolent organizations, but she must
step so far and no farther; and the moment she
does move a few steps in advance of her prede-
cessors she becomes the subject of ridicule, or
persecution; and for fear of this, many women
in all parts of the enlightened world remain
inactive and indifferent, and clog the wheels
of true progress. But women should awaken
to the duties and responsibilities which de-
volve upon them now, and not be afraid of be-
ing ridiculed or sneered at, or called "over-
religious." Goldsmith says in his "Citizen of
the World," "Persecution only serves to propa-
gate new religions; they acquire fresh vigor
beneath the executioner and the axe, and like
some vivacious insects, multiply by dissec-
tion."
	In the awakening of the sisters to duty there
seems to be hope for greater and higher culture
and progress in the church. If men and wo-
men will only work in harmony with each
other, and this must be done or no good can
possibly be accomplished. The brethren, the
Elders, those who proclaim the Gospel at home
and abroad, have done faithfully their work,
but their hands will be strengthened by the
help of women-workers, and their forces dou-
bled, and the husband who has upon his shoul-
ders heavy burdens to bear pertaining to the
duties of his high and holy calling, will not
need to spend his precious time to teach the
wife at home, but she herself will be qualified
to stand side by side with him, and from the
love of the work in which both are mutually
interested, they will bless and sustain each
other, and extend the helping hand to the
poor, the sorrowing and the tempted.
	Heretofore the laborers have been too few,
and it was not considered proper for woman to
teach her own sex, except in the schoolroom,
or in that which pertained to household work
and the care of children. But time, in its on-
ward march, has brought with it wondrous
changes, and some noble women have felt
impressed with a strong sense of duty and
"the still small voice" within which speaks to
all that they had a mission to fulfill, a work to
perform, and with the sweet memories of
childhood rising up before them, of a mother
who could touch their hearts as with a holy

[Column 3]
touch, have realized the woman-power that
might perhaps reach poor human hearts, with
a pathos and tenderness, and even an inspira-
tion, and minister, giving faith and hope to
those who yearn for help and encouragement.
	It is well known that Christian women "feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, shelter the
homeless;" why, then, is she not also fit to
minister spiritual food? The Prophet Joseph
said when he organized the sisters in the Re-
lief Society that their mission was not only to
relieve the wants of the poor, but to save souls.
And there are sisters living now, who have
heard him speak of the power and blessing
that should attend the sisters who were hum-
ble and faithful in these societies. Humility
is necessary; the Savior is the example for all,
He descended below all things, that He might
fulfill all righteousness. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS. 
	ON the 6th of the present month the Forty-
Ninth Annual Conference will be held in this
city. No doubt the fine weather will make it
a large and pleasant one. On Saturday, April
5th, will be the Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion, and the Sisters are invited to at-
tend. We hope there will not be so many
empty benches as we saw there one year ago.
	WE WOULD say to our sisters who have sent
in reports of meetings held in the different
Wards of this city and elsewhere, that we have
published them as our space would permit and
shall continue to do so. We devote one page
always, and often more than one to R. S. Re-
ports. It is necessary to publish these reports
so that all may understand what is being done
in other organizations, and thus work in har-
mony. We intended mentioning the several re-
ports we have on hand at this present date, but
find them too numerous. This proves that the
sisters are doing a vast amount of work through
these organizations. We shall be glad to receive
original articles or essays for publication from
the sisters; we intend that the paper be mostly
filled with the writings of the sisters, but a few
selections from other papers are necessary, in
order to understand what women are doing
elsewhere. We designed to publish in this is-
sue Mrs. Stanton's opening address in Lincoln
Hall, at the N. W. S. A. Convention, Jan. 9.,
but it is crowded out this time.
	A QUARTERLY Conference of the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake of Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 21 and 22,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne and her counselors pre-
siding. Friday morning: after the opening
exercises, which always consist of singing and
prayer, the Secretary read the report of the
Annual meeting held in December and the
Quarterly reports from the various branches of
the Society in the County. There were also
verbal reports from some of the societies. Fri-
day afternoon was occupied in hearing the
Presidents from the country settlements, many
of them giving excellent instruction, and each
and all reflecting credit upon themselves and
the Society they represented. Pres. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each gave a short ad-
dress, speaking of the present condition of so-
ciety and the great need of reform, and other
subjects suited to the occasion.
	Saturday morning: Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presided. The meeting was devoted to hearing
from the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Associations of this Stake of Zion. The Secre-
tary read the minutes of the meeting in De-
cember, and all the reports which had been re-
ceived. Several organizations had not sent in
a written report. After the reports were read,


Pres. Eliza R. Snow nominated Mrs. Louie
Felt and Mrs. Clara Young Conrad as counsel-
ors to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Salt Lake Co. The vote in their favor was
unanimous. Pres. Freeze and Counselors Felt
and Conrad each made a few remarks, express-
ing their good desires and asking the faith of
the sisters to sustain them in this important
home-mission. Saturday afternoon: Mrs. M
I. Horne presided. Much good instruction was
given by the sisters who spoke. Pres. E. R.
Snow addressed the sisters on many subjects
pertaining to our lives here and hereafter. She
specially exhorted mothers to have their chil-
dren attend the Primary Associations, and said
that there they would be instructed in the
ways of the Lord. She alluded to home indus-
tries and other necessary labors which devolve
upon the Saints, The storing of grain was
another dnty woman had been called upon to
perform, which seemed a heavy responsibility,
and she felt great caution and wisdom wasneeded in the work. Coun. Zina D. Young
gave an excellent exhortation to mothers and
daughters, advocated the sericulture, and
urged the societies to set out mulberry trees as
a beginning. Alluded to the words of the late
President Brigham Young in the old Bowery,
the first year after the settlement here, when
he said the elements here were full of the ma-
terial necessary to the production of silk.
Pres. Horne made a few choice remarks, in
which she urged the sisters to take the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. Mrs. E. Bull, who has re-
cently returned from a visit to Europe, gave a 
graphic description of the places she visited in
England, and faithfully entreated the sisters
who had friends or relatives there desirous of
emigrating to help them out. Mrs. M. A.
House, of Grantsville, gave a short account of
the Relief Society work in Tooele Co., and
made other interesting remarks. Elder Joseph
E. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the sisters,
and dwelt eloquently upon the good works of 
women in this and other ages of the world.
Altogether this woman's Conference surpasses
any we have held hitherto. Much good coun-
sel has been given and the Spirit of God was in
the midst of the assembly. The meeting was
closed by singing part of the hymn "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." The closing
prayer was offered by Elder J. E. Taylor, and
the Conference was adjourned to June 20 and
21. We trust that the Secretaries will be 
prompt in handing in reports early. The Sec-
retary, Mrs. E. Howard, has not yet prepared
for publication the Stake Statistical and Fi-
nancial report.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in West Jordan, Feb. 2, 1879, of in-
flammation of the lungs, Mary Ann Leather,
wife of William Leather. She was born in
England, March lst, 1814; was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints on the 24th day of December, 1850. She
emigrated with her husband to Utah in the
year 1866. The fune[-]al services were held in
the Social Hall in this place, where a large
concourse of people m[-]t and then followed the
remains to the grave.
	Sister Leather was a member of our Relief
Society. She lived the life of a true Latter-
day Saint, and died in full faith of the Gospel.
								M. G.

	DIED, in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, on
Tuesday, Feb. 11. 1879, aged 27 years, 5 months
and 11 days, Charlotte Elizabeth Edmisson,
daughter of William and Ma[-]y Ann Gingell,
born in Camden, Cook Co., Australia. She
embraced the Gospel in 1853 and emigrated to


Utah with her parents in 1857. She was an
active member of the Relief Society of Evan-
ston Ward since its organization in November
last. Her loss is deeply felt by her fellow-
members of the Society. She leaves a husband
and seven children.


MRS. SPENCER IN "WOMAN'S
WORDS."

	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer, well-known to
the women of Utah through her good words
and works in their interest, and to women
everywhere for her material help in their ad-
vancement, and also as one of the editors of
"Woman's Words," has dissolved partnership
with Mrs. Juan Lewis, the orig[-]nal sole editor
of that interesting Journal, and in the March
number published her valedictory. It con-
tains, in strong, earnest language, some ideas
on the (so termed) "Woman Question," which
bespeak a new innovation, so entirely opposed
to the old accustomed groove in which women
have been accustomed to walk, that we cannot
forbear republishing a few extracts. It shows
something of the dissatisfac[-]ion which dwells
in the hearts of ihose who have an opportunity
of watching Congress.
	"A whole Congress of men have not suc-
ceeded in a century in providing satisfactorily
for the welfare of men. There is needed here,
at the heart of the nation, a perpetual CON-
GRESS OF WOMEN, to supp[-]ement, inspire and
ennoble the work of men in legislation; though
much more is it needed to represent the mani-
fold interests of women and children!  The
prophetic eye of woman discerned this long
ago, and influences have been at work to bring
it surely to pass.
	"Why wait for men, bewildered and blinded
by the material disasters they themselves have
wrought, to invite, or even permit mothers
and daughters of men to come to their own
capital and make and execute their own laws?
"The question need not be whether men will
permit us to join them in legislation, but
whether we will permit them to join us; for 
that a Congress of women is the more level-
headed and efficient body of the two, and does
more in less time for the genuine prosperity of
the country, has been abundantly demonstrated
by the six Congresses of Women already held
in New Yo[-]k, Syracuse, Chicago, Philadelphia,
Cleveland and Providence.
	There is among women wealth of culture,
intelligence; experience, insight. There may
be lack of determination; and they tell us there
is lack of money. Let the over-worked and 
the[-] under paid women of the country claim
th[-]ir one half or three quarters of the joint-
earnings of families, and the determination
and money may come together. Personal en-
ergy, high purposes, and inflexible determina-
tion have enabled large numbers of women to
assemble in conventions in various parts of the
world for many years. Let constituencies and
representatives of women in this country con-
centrate their scattered aims and forces upon
Washington, and the representation women
demand and need will be an accomplished
fact.
	"Taxes upon widow's houses have helped to
rear the capitol dome. Taxes upon alcoholic
d[-]inks, coined from the tears of worse than
widowed wives, have helped to rear the marble
s[-]af[-] that support the nation's Treasury. Wo-
men of America, why wait you to be called to
come and take possession of your own? Men
come here to do [-]h[-]se things wi[-]hout your per-
mission, come you without theirs, and inaugu-
rate such a r[-]ign of justi[-]e t[---]h, and univer-
sal love, that the earth will gladly heed your
counsels and own your sway."


UTAH COUNTY SILK ASSOCIATION.

	A general meeting of the Utah County Silk
Association was held in Provo Feb. 28th, 1879.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	A report of the finances showed that there
had been $197.69 1/2 subscribed by the citizens of
Utah County in aid of the silk enterprise since
August 30th, 1878; one silk reel purchased and
about 50 pounds of cocoons.
	Prest. M. Hindley invited the sisters present
to speak their feelings in regard to raising silk
and to give a report of their doings in their 
various wards.
	Several sisters spoke of the increase of the
silk interest in the settlements. The people are
planting mulberry trees and preparing to raise
silk, believing that after a little experience it
will be as easy to raise silk as to set a hen, or
to dry fruit.
	It is the intention of the Association to buy
up all the cocoons in th[-] county (if possible)
and get them reeled before this year's silk is
ready, as it is considered best to have them
worked up while fresh.
	Sisters Zina D. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y.
Williams, and S. M. Kimball were present, and
each spoke a short time, encouraging the sisters
to raise silk and make this branch of home
manufacture successful. Advised them to color
the silk, to make handkerchiefs, mitts, stock-
ings, neck ties, veils, sewing silk, etc.
	Were pleased to see specimens of home in-
dustry and effort being made in practical seri-
culture; would like to see the sisters wearing
home-made silk dresses. Children can help in
the work. Plant the trees as near the house as 
possible, and keep them cropped down so as to
be handy for feeding.
	Pres. M. Hindley expressed her thankfulness
for the good meeting and valuable instruction.
Meeting adjourned until next Quarterly Con-
ference.
	M. HINDLEY, President,
	EMMA FEATAERSTONE, Secretary.


AS GEORGE ELIOT (Mrs. Lewes) has nev-
er had a photograph taken the great major-
ity of her admirers are compelled to view
her only through pen and ink sketches.
This "counterfeit presentment" is given by
a recent visitor: "She is a woman who
must have passed her fiftieth year. Her
hair is dark brown, and has none of those
silver threads one might expect where the
burden of half a century of years is added to
incessant labor, and experience full of deso-
lation. She is not at all handsome; her face
is long and very pale, with a small sensitive
mouth, eyes dreamy, introspective, and sad
always. Her hair is worn low over her
intellectual forehead, and her slender figure
has no robust energy about it. George
Eliot's is the energy of the mind, not of
physical power. She is one of the greatest
living conversationalists. She is one of the
most accomplished amateur pianists in
England, and a fine linguist, and seems to
know as much about the healing art as of
history and philosophy. What the witty
Mrs. French said of Madame de Stael—that
she is consolingly ugly—applies to George
Eliot; but her plain features are made
beautiful by her expression. She composes
slowly and methodically, not more than
sixty lines a day; and report says that when
she has completed a book her nervous ex-
haustion is such that her husband used to
take her abroad at once to recruit her fail-
ing health. While writing, she is most
scrupulously arranged as to surroundings
and person. She is not only a wonderful
author, but a clever housewife, and, her
home life is perfect in all its details."—The
American Home.


220		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				[For the EXPONENT.
THREE SCENES IN THE HISTORY OF
A DIAMOND NECKLACE.
BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The sun shone gloriously on the Parisian
Capitol, the birds sang joyously, bands of
music welcomed in the auspicious morning.
Notre Dame had its grand entrance thrown
open to admit the elite of France in a 
few hours—its altars decked with bouquets
of orange blossoms and other emblematical
flowers. The Tuilleries was alive with
human beings, that being the centre for the 
company to assemble. What was the event
of the day that had so excited that grand
city? The beautiful Hortense de Beauhar-
nais, the only daughter of the Empress Jo-
sephine, and the equally beloved adopted
child of Napoleon, Emporer of France, was
on that day to unite her destiny with Louis
Bonaparte, the Emperor's brother. This
she did in obedience to the wishes of her
mother and her adopted father. Before
this alliance was proposed to her she had
given her heart to a young officer of the
Court, and, singular enough, Louis had also
loved devotedly, believing he should make
the lady his wife; but the Throne had to
be strengthened by every available alliance,
and therefore this young couple had to be
laid upon the altar of sacrifice! and for their
obedience they were made King and Queen
of Holland.
	Hortense was reclining in her beautiful
and gorgeous dressing-rooms, listless and
unambitious. She had surveyed the mag-
nificent trousseau, the costly and elegant
presents, with which the adjoining room
was full. All the Court, all the elite of 
France had sent their tokens of love and 
fealty—but among them all there was not
one that bore the presentation of the Em-
peror! For the moment she felt hurt, but the 
second thought was "It will come, he will
not forget me."
	Her ladies and dressers stood around, at-
tiring her in the faultless bridal robe that
lay around. The Valenciennces lace dress
and costly bridal veil were ready to adorn
her person—all but the veil was now com-
plete, when a soft, gentle tap was heard up-
on the door. Who could it be at such a 
moment? The door was opened by a dresser
and the first lady in attendance approached
to receive the visitor. "The Emperor!"
she announced. Yes, it was he himself in
his robes of state! He held in his hand a 
casket of pure gold, and on the top of the
lid the monogram of Hortense, surmounted
by the imperial crown in diamonds of the
purest water—its worth? the ransom of a 
kingdom! He approached Hortense, and 
she arose to meet him with a smile. He
viewed her with intense love and admira-
tion, and imprinting a kiss upon her beau-
tiful forehead presented the love token he
had brought. The ladies had retired a lit-
tle, and now the Emperor waved them to
approach, calling upon the first lady in
waiting to open the casket and place the
carcanet upon the lovely neck of the Bride-
[-]lect! It was formed of diamonds of the
purest water, and was of priceless value;
the workmanship of the whole was exqui-
site and unique! When this was done
the bridal veil was thrown over her, and it
fell in all its elegance to the termination of
her dress. At that moment, she looked
more than mortal! she looked indeed a 
Queen, for she was beautiful, both in form
and feature! Napolean viewed her for a
moment with moistened eyes, for he loved
her sincerely, and then retired as he had

[Column 2]
entered, the lady acting the "Lord Cham-
berlain."
	In this act Napoleon displayed one of his 
grandest characteristics—that of being
original, being himself. He did not sum-
mon his grand chamberlain to bring his
golden salver on which to present his bridal
offering—no! his own hand carried it, and 
in person he presented it, as a father to his
child.

SCENE II.

	The Tuilleries is once again the scene of
action. In a retired room a gentleman is
seaetd at a small writing table. He is alone.
Writing materials are before him and the
pen is in his hand; thought seems to over-
power him, and appears to disable him from
carrying out the purpose for which he
seated himself. Had he intended to write
a farewell to his beloved ones? Was he
going to depict the agony of his soul? Was
it his last will and testament that he de-
sired to make palpable? All is unknown;
but there he sat as one paralyzed by con-
tending emotions, the mighty spirit bowed
down, the glorious dreams of ambition dis-
pelled. The loved ones were away from
him, yet he knew that one or two—yes,
three hearts were beating true as ever—one
true even unto death, waiting only for the
one word from his lips—Come! and she
would have walked into exile with him,
rejoicing gladly. There he sat alone, en-
gulfed in the whirlpool of his fallen for-
tunes! At this moment the door is softly
opened. He starts and slightly stamps his 
foot—who dare intrude upon this, his hour
of almost despondency? A woman! Yes,
a woman still young and still beautiful, but
lines of sorrow, of bereavement, of a yearn-
ing for love, had marked that once faultless
face, and told a tale that would have filled
a volume. In a moment Napoleon (for it
was he) recognized her! She glided to-
wards him, and kneeling clasped his knees,
and for a moment could not speak. Both
were silent, but oh! 'twas a silence that
spoke louder than words; at last she spoke
just above a whisper: "Sire, forgive me, do
not call me an intruder; let me say it is a 
mission of love the most devoted. Sire, I
want to condense the language of my full
soul, that I may say as few words as possi-
ble! Allow me a few moments to express
myself." Napoleon bowed assent. "Sire,
times have changed with us; you will re-
quire means; this casket and its contents I
have hoarded as your love-token to me
when you studied to make me great and
happy. Your love and goodness to me
would alone have been my 'exceeding great
reward;' this was but the index of it. It
contains a king's ransom! I shall never
wear it more, but you shall live in my
heart forever, and the thought that through
your love I am enabled to, perhaps, assist
you, will be the day-star of memory to my
saddened heart!"
	Napoleon trembled as with a palsy, (the
Hero of France, who had restored her from
the desolation of a mighty revolution and
elevated her to the highest pinnacle of
ambition and fame—the hero of many bat-
tles) and laying his hand upon her bowed
head as she knelt before him said: "No,
my beloved Hortense, I cannot take it;
keep it in remembrance of all the sweet
associations connected with it, and above
all of my love and appreciation of you; I
shall not need it, I am a soldier, and my
wants will be few."
	Hortense had hitherto commanded her
feelings, but at this repulse, though the re-
pulse of love, the deep fountains of heart
were broken up. She arose from her kneel-

[Column 3]
ing posture, she wept as when a child—and
well it was she did, for had tears not re-
lieved her she would have sunk in uncon-
sciousness at his feet. Napoleon arose also
—the strong man needed comfort as well as
the weak, loving woman! "My Hortense,"
he spoke with difficulty, "I appreciate your
love to me, it is a sweet balm that I will
carry with me into exile. Remember this 
in every hour of your future life, that I love
and appreciate all your love and obedience
to me." "Then let me entreat you, sire,
to accept this love token from me, as I ac-
cepted it from you. Accept it, and make
me happy!"
	Napoleon "groaned in spirit." "Hortense,
you unman me; say no more, I cannot bear
it; at this most trying hour of my life!"
Hortense again sank on her knees at his
feet. "Sire, forgive me; think only of my
love and admiration of you and accept my
offering, that I may be assured of your for-
giveness." She gently forced the casket
in his hands, and clasping them in both
hers she imprinted kisses on them, arose
noiselessly and glided from the apartment.

SCENE III.

	And now, my readers, let us in imagina-
tion transport ourselves for a few moments
to that bleak and barren spot, that God-
forsaken island springing up in the broad
Atlantic, St. Helena. I blush for England,
that amid her numerous strongholds—her
Gibralters, and others of like fortifications
—she could select no place for a fallen man,
who in dire necessity cast himself into her
hands, than such a prison as St. Helena,
and such a jailer as Sir Hudson Lowe! I
know of no public character in history that
I execrate as I do the vile, the low, the ig-
norant, the execrable Sir Hudson Lowe; I
would say strike off his spurs of knight-
hood, he is utterly unworthy of them! But
he has gone to his ancestors, and the Lord
says, "I will repay."
	On this dreadful island did Napoleon drag
out the remaining years of his eventful life,
made wretched by the very man who had
it in his power to make the path of life
tolerable at any rate, but who took advan-
tage of that power to afflict, to annoy, to
intrude upon the man whose name the na-
tions had bowed to, and who, if in his
mighty course could be found some evil,
did a vast, a mighty amount of good.
	In idea we enter this forlorn, barn-like
habitation; in idea we find ourselves in a
room old, barren even of common comforts,
the walls stuffed with old tapestry, or any-
thing to keep out the cold, bleak winds; on
one side is a camp bed with faded white
silk curtains, and an ample military cloak
covers the bed, beneath which lies a man
in the last stage of a long, wearying, wear-
ing disease, brought on and accelerated by
the cruel treatment he had received. A
devoted friend, devoted even unto death,
sits beside the bed, watching if in any way
he may give ease to the sufferer, or receive
any commands he may desire to make.
This friend, General Montholon, was one
of the noble five generals who went into
voluntary exile with him, whom they had
delighted to serve under. Life is ebbing
fast away; the feverish dream of earthly
life will soon be over! The mind of the
sufferer wanders—again he is leading on his
men; again he gives the charge at the head
of his forces! Now all is still, he sleeps for
a moment. He wakes calm and collected;
he looks around and calls "Montholon."
He answers, "Sire, I am here, what can I
do for you?" "Monthonlon, I am passing
away; give me your hand; thou, with Les
Cases and others, have been true and faith


ful to me, even unto death, and I bless you
all for your fidelity. The dream of earthly
life is over for me; you all have voluntarily
shared my exile, God will reward you.
When I am gone you will return home, and
your last days will be your best days; re-
member me. Montholon, a few more
words: when death closes my eyes slide
your hand under my pillow; there you will
find a diamond necklace! it has quite a his-
tory and is of immense value. Keep it
safely in your own possession until you re-
turn to France; then seek out Hortense,
the Ex-Queen of Holland, and deliver it
yourself into her own hands. Tell her that,
like Jacob, I took those stones for my pillow,
and they were to me a Talisman, given by
love and holiest feelings of human nature.
Even these stones will rise up and speak to
her of me. Montholon, I have no more
to say. Give me both your hands, and God
be with you.” 

 ACROSTIC.

Now the hero bows his head, 
And now he joins the MIGHTY DEAD?
Permit, O God, his soul to flee 
On mercies wings to rest and thee.
Let no base slander cloud his fame,
Evict each stigma from his name;
On Thee for justice we rely,
Nor fear thou wilt the boon deny.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		221


[Column 1]
			LETTER

	FLORIDA HOUSE, ST. AUGUSTINE,
						March 8, 1879.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	I had resolved to defer this letter until
arriving at Jacksonville, the end of my trip
down the St. Johns river, but here at St.
Augustine my interest is at its zenith, and 
fearing that it may fall during the latter
part of my trip, I shall begin with the in-
cidents and scenery in which I have been
rapt intervening between Jacksonville
and St. Augustine. We embarked on the 
steamer "Pastime" for a three days' trip
up the St. John's River. It merits more
the name of an arm of the sea than that of
a river, as it is effected by the tide at its
very source. Its flow is almost impercepti-
ble, and in width it varies from one-half to
three or four miles. We left Jacksonville
in the beautiful afternoon of last Wednes-
day. Nothing of note occurred on that
afternoon sail, but we enjoyed immensely
the grandeur of the scenery through which
the river gently bends its winding way.
On each bank the lofty pines, with a net-
work of shrubbery clinging at their feet,
afford an almost impenetrable barrier to the
unknown interior, and increase two-fold
their mass in the reflection they cast upon
the glassy surface of the water. Here and
there along the sides the "cracker's" ax has
paved the foundation of his little home, and 
his well-planned orange grove, with its
yellow fruit, gives a cheerful change to the
would-be sameness of the vegetation.
	In one of the river bends we pass the
"modest mansion" of Mrs. H. B. Stowe—a
little house, almost hidden in its adjacent
orange grove. We travel till dark, but
the moon arising as the sun goes down
scarcely makes distinction of the night and 
day.
	In the evening we land at some remote
hotel, whose patronage and style Fifth Ave-
nue might covet. Here the Cuban plays his
festive harp, the traveling traps are cast
aside, and dress suits donned, and sun-
browned faces mingle in the "hop."
	Night passed and breakfast over, the
pleasure-seekers crowd the boat again. "A
change comes over" the shape of things,

[Column 2]
and where the lofty pine was yesterday
now the spreading cypress shades its poison-
ous limbs. Glistening rifles shine upon the
steamer's deck, ugly alligators sleep along
the shore, and as the sun grows warm the
sport begins, and excitement rages as the
bullets fly, and only ceases when the river
gently draws its banks beyond the rifles'
range, and unconscious fades into a little
lake. Now vegetation takes a different
form, and the palmetto, rearing on its white
and polished trunk, shades the water with
its umbrella top. From these great flocks
of curious birds and reptiles send out their
hideous screams and take the rifle from the
sleeping alligators. Still the vegetation
changes, and the magnolia and centaury
plants claim their different beds in the gar-
den of flowers. Night comes on; another
"hop," and we return from whence we
came, and along the banks count the with-
ering prey of yesterday. Now we leave
the boat, and an hour's ride on a rickety
train brings us to still more rickety St. Au-
gustine. And here, the oldest cradle of
the Union, in which the conquering Span-
iard, Juan Ponce de Leon, in his search for
the fountain of youth, laid his lovely head,
before the Pilgrim Fathers peopled Ply-
mouth Point, is what I hope will interest
you most.
	Here is where the consumptive Northerner,
who but a week ago muffled in his ulster
and arctics at home, now lounges in his
duster and slippers. Here is where the
now free negro finds a home in the moul-
dering prison walls of what was once a 
Spanish Fort. In St. Augustine a few hotels
and winter residences are the only signs
that mark the changes of centuries. 'Tis
verging on to three hundred years since the 
foundation of the old Fort was laid. I
visited it to-day, and as I saw it I will de-
scribe it.
	The material of which it is built seems to
be hewn out of fish shells which are formed
into solids by the tide along the shore. A
battery of this substance faces the sea on
three sides forming the outer wall. This
wall surrounds a second wall built in a cir-
cle, with little star-like corners all around.
These two walls form a protection to the
inner fort. Between the inner wall and
the sides of the fort is a trench about
twenty-five feet deep and thirty feet wide,
which seems to have been filled with water.
The sides of the fort tower above the outer
walls thirty or forty feet, and the whole
mass presents the appearance of a crum-
bling ruin. To enter the fort the trench
mentioned is crossed by a bridge; on the en-
trance is the Spanish "coat of arms," almost
faded away by time, and under it is inscribed,
almost too dim to read, "Ferdinando Sexto,"
which marks the structure's age. The in-
terior is a complete catacomb of dungeons.
Each dungeon seems to be carved into the
shelly substance, and connects with its ad-
jacent hole by a door, on whose massive
hinges and iron bolts cling the rotten rem-
nants of decaying wood. Here and there,
sticking out from the solid floor, or wall, a
rusty cannon shows its terrible mouth, and
the oval surface of what seems to have been
a cannon ball forms a stumbling block in 
the floor. No ray of light can penetrate
these dungeons, and the disclosure of 1835
tells what they once held. The wall of one
fell in, and tumbled down with it some iron
cages in which were found human bones.
Other secrets of their history are known, and
which I am promised to be informed of be-
fore leaving. After leaving the dungeons
we ascend the walls on what were once
steps, but now smooth stone, worn by con-
stant passage, and thence on to the lookout,

[Column 3]
which command a view of the whole town,
and shows up streets that one can jump
across, and houses built so close to each other
that now the crumbling ruins join together.
All are made of these shells carved out in
the shape and size of our adobies, and called
coquina. The whole town covers now an
area of about half a mile, and has covered
the same area for three hundred years, and
possibly will never change till it gradually
vanishes by the wear of time. Such is St.
Augustine and a trip up the St. John's 
river.
	*		*		*		*		*		*
	I could write nothing more that would
be of interest to you, except possibly a trip
through the Southern States, or a descrip-
tion of quaint old Charleston, but having
enjoyed my St. John's trip and view of St.
Augustine, I could not forbear describing it
to you, and I hope our tastes do not so
widely differ as to make it unpleasing to
you.	*	*	*
	I am yours very truly,
								JOE.


[For the EXPONENT.
		PIPSEY PAPERS.—No. 10.

	Mrs. Blake’s remarks regarding the cele-
bration of “Forefathers’ Day” are highly
interesting. We had so long heard the cry
about the “women of Utah” and their cruel
and barbarous treatment, that we ought to
have supposed women in other parts of this
“Glorious Republic” were petted and hon-
ored past anything we were capable of un-
derstanding, or appreciating. As I read
and observe such matters I am led to be-
lieve that in contrasting their position with
our own, the balance shows in our favor.
The idea of a dinner or celebration of any
kind being carried out without the assist-
ance of the ladies would seem to us very
absurd, as it has not yet come within the
range of our experience. We may readily
suppose that the men of Utah are very fond
of the ladies. They prove it in private life
by their extensive relationship and their
willingness to protect and support so many
wives; in public no enjoyment is considered
complete without their presence. Even in
the celebration of the national birthday the
ladies hold a conspicuous part. In com-
memorating the first settlement of the val-
leys it is not forgotten that the women of
Utah shared the hardship of the brethren;
not only with the pioneers, but in the weari-
some march of the Mormon battalion were
the ladies in the foremost ranks. They
have so long held prominent positions in all
matters, both religious and political, that it
is no doubt quite time Uncle Sam interfered
to keep them from taking the leading
strings into their own hands.
	Her ideas regarding the purity of her
brethren seem somewhat clouded. We
hear many insinuations and accusations
made of a like nature, which leads us to
suppose that the ladies of the East have
not unbounded faith in the chastity of their
husbands, or of mankind in general. Per-
haps experience and observation serve to
strengthen their ideas. It is different with
us, we have the fullest confidence in the fi-
delity of our “liege lords,” and of all our
brethren; our knowledge of their lives both
in public and private strengthen our opin-
ions.
	Provo.					MARY.


A WESTERN editor, in response to sub-
scribers who grumble that the paper is in-
tolerably damp, says it is "because there is
so much due on it."


222		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MASS MEETING IN FILLMORE.

	The ladies of Millard County Stake met
in Mass Meeting, for the purpose of pro-
testing against the Anti-Polygamy Crusade.
	Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt was elected Chair-
man, Mary M. Lyman Secretary, and Me-
lissa Brown Assistant Secretary. Choir
sang, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion."
Prayer by Adelia A. Kimball. Sang, "Let
those who would be Saints indeed."
	Mrs. B. M. Pratt: "My dear sisters and
friends, the Anti-Polygamy ladies of Salt
Lake City have entered upon a Crusade
against Plural Marriage, and have addressed
themselves to the Christian women and
clergy of the United States, also to the 
Senate and House of Representatives, to
make effective the Anti-Polygamy Law of
1862, setting before them the great crime
of Polygamy, falsely misrepresenting and
wishing to deprive us of our rights as citi-
zens, wives, mothers and children. And
shall we sit idly down and not vindicate our
cause? God forbid! Let us lift up our
voices with one accord in behalf of this
great principle which our Heavenly Father
has revealed for the exaltation of the hu-
man family. I know by the revelations of
His Holy Spirit that He has given unto me
that this principle is true and emanated 
from Him; and that which He has esta-
blished He is able to preserve. The Gov-
ernment of the United States is great and
powerful, but He Who rules above is greater,
and in Him we trust. This principle is
holy and from God, and though all nations
should legislate against it, yet He will pre-
serve and uphold it and bring to naught all
their schemes and plans. We will not fear
what man can do, but walk humbly before
our God, and in the end gain eternal life,
which is the greatest of all blessings."
	Very spirited speeches were given by
the following ladies: Delilah King Olsen,
Martha Bennett, Sarah L. Partridge, Adelia
Kimball, Eliza Lyman, Angeline Hinckley,
Helen Callister, Abigail Stephens, Henrietta
Powell, Emma J. Bennett, Ann J. Bennett,
Huldah Teeples; A. J. Pratt, Jean Hol-
brook, Sarah Davis, Emily Ralph, Elizabeth
Thompson, Catherine Wilcox, Lemira Rob.
inson, R. T. Stephenson, Bird Robison,
Caroline Lyman, Eliza Wicker, Mary A.
McBride, Minnie Anderson, Columbia Mc-
Bride, Ann Ashman, Lizzie Partridge and
Emily Crane.
	Report of Mass Meetings held in Scipio
and Deseret Wards were then read. Song,
"The trumpet of our foeman."
	The preamble and resolutions which were
adopted by the Ladies of Salt Lake City
were read, with the following additional
resolution:
	Resolved, That we will not fellowship or
associate with those in our own community
who have given aid and support to the acts
and doings of the Gentile ladies of Salt
Lake City, by circulating and signing the
petition against Polygamy.
	Singing, "Guide us, O Thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction by Pres. I. M. Hinck-
ley.
		M. M. LYMAN,	} Secretaries.
		F. M. BROWN,	}


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Miss Laura Caillard, whose melancholy
and mysterious death is creating so great a
sensation in Wiltshire, is a relation of Lord
Beaconsfield, for her mother was the grand-
mother of Mr. George Basevi, of Brighton,
the Premier's uncle. Her father is the
country-court judge in Wiltshire, and resid-


es in the pleasant village of Wingfield on
the Frome.

	It will make some middle-aged people
feel very old to hear that the Princess Roy-
al, who was born within their remem-
brance, has already become a grandmoth-
er. through her daughter, the Heredit-
ary Princess of Saxe-Meiningen, her
Majesty the Queen is a great-
grandmother before she is sixty. Up
to this time no Queen of England has
ever lived to see her great-grandchildren;
but her Majesty may now reasonably hope
to be a great-great-grandmother and to see
her grandchildren's grandchildren.—Ex

	THE death of the Princess Alice has been
felt and deplored at Berlin even more than
in London, and the details of her illness
are still the one absorbing topic of conver-
sation in every class of society. Great dis-
satisfaction is expressed in the highest
diplomatic circles at the supineness of her
medical attendants, and Sir. William Jen-
ner is loudly blamed for not having insist-
ed on her immediate removal, at all haz-
ards, from the infected air of Darmstadt,
when it was evidently her only chance of
life. His experience of the disease in Eng-
land made him suggest this course; but he
suffered himself to be overruled by his Ger-
man colleagues, who were afraid, forsooth,
of the invalid catching cold! It was proved
last year at Uppingham that change of air
is almost a specific cure for diphtheria; for
when the complaint broke out in the school
every single case which was locally treated
ended in death whilst every boy who was
removed to his own home recovered, with-
out exception. Removal in the last stage
of prostration is, of course, a forlorn hope;
but it succeeds so often that the Princess's
physicians will never be forgiven for their
cowardice in not trying the experiment.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace.  Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.
Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
		3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap, - - 3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc) - -35 Cents each
Brooms, - - 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO 
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY  The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents eac[-]
and upwards.
Please forward all orders to
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
Salt Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodat[-] her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49  MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine her stock of [-]ats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.
	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. [-]ash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
		JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of 
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake [-]City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1879.		No. 22.


[For the EXPONENT.
SONNET.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

I love thee still! these words contain
A language that the angels do rehearse!
Yes, Yes, 'tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim!
The running brooks and all the mountain streams;
The glorious sun, with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flower's sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the Queen of night,
On which the lover's mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim, with never failing thrill,
To the responsive soul, I love thee still!

Salt Lake City, April 6, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT.
	TRUE WOMANLINESS.

Woman the foe of woman! Can it be?
Woman should be all love and charity;
No dark suspicion through her soul should steal—
She should go forth to comfort and to heal;
To cheer the tempted as they strive to stand,
And, if they fall, to give a helping hand;
To scatter flowers in the path of woe
Is woman's mission to the world below.
Should she fling serpents in a sister's face.
And lips and tongue be linked with her disgrace?
God is the Judge of all—let thoese beware;—
And glory not whose feet escape the snare.

Woman, relentless, iron-browed and stern,
Watching her sister's steps at every turn
Of life's sad way—with loud, indignant calls

B[-]dding the world to brand her as she falls—
is not true woman, though she bear her name[-]
For the true woman mourns her sister's shame,
Steals to her chamber when the world's asleep,
Not to upbraid her, but with her to weep;
Kisses the lips by agony made white,
And whispers blessings with her soft goodnight.
						MRS. E. A. W. HOPKINS.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN IN THE ARIZONA MISSION.

	We are so isolated here there seems but
little to write that would interest the sis-
ters of Utah. If we are living as saints
surely we have something to say in defense
of the principles revealed from heaven, and
of the many mercies our God has shown
unto us. We have been greatly blest with 
good health the past year; though three
weeks ago Sister Malinda Wanslee died.
She was from Arkansas. Left a husband
and three little girls, the youngest but
seven days old. She was impressed from
the first that her time had come. The
brethren and sisters exercised all the faith
they could, and she was repeatedly prayed
for. She said she knew the Lord was able
to heal her, yet felt it was his will to take
her to himself. It is ever sad to see a
friend laid in the silent grave but doubly
so when there are so few together as there
are here. We know we have more reason
to mourn for the living than those who die
with the hope of a glorious resurrection,and 
we should all live so that we can have that
hope, and merit the blessings in store for
the faithful. We have never seen  a time
when the evil one held such sway over the
hearts of the ungodly, and that is why we
as saints should strive the harder to do
right, so we too may not full victims to the
tempting of Satan.

[Column 2]

	The EXPONENT contains great comfort in
its pages. It seems every number is bet-
ter and more interesting, or at least I enjoy
and appreciate it more. I glory in the
courage of the noble sisters who went to
Washington to plead the cause of Zion, and
I pray God to bless them and the hundreds
of brave wives and daughters who daily
defend the principles of the Gospel and es-
pecially that of Celestial Marriage. I thank
my heavenly father I have never spoken
against it, and through the teachings of a
good mother always respected it. I was
pleased with "A little sketch" by Olive
Branch in the last paper, and can say I know
many such true-hearted unselfish wives
who would not exchange their conditions
for the wealth of Rothschild; and it is my
belief if we are not happy, it is because of
our weakness and our lack of determina-
tion to overcome our inherent selfishness.
No wife need to fear that her place will be
usurped by another if she is worthy. God
is first and will reward according to the
merits of each, and if the first is a faithful
Latter-day Saint the rest are very apt to
follow her example. Love begets love, and
her kindness will win the respect of all.
There may be exceptions but it will gen-
erally prove so. How much we miss the 
great and good meetings our Utah breth-
ren and sisters enjoy; yet we would not
wish to return, for we feel if we honor our
calling to this land "our father" will amply
reward us for the little sacrifice we are re-
quired to make at present. I think in due
time the sisters will be able to do as much
good in redeeming the Indians as the breth-
ren; for if the civilized mothers need con-
stant teachings to aid them to bring their
children up in the ways of the Lord, how
much more does the savage mother need.
The Navajo woman has a very pleasing
appearance. She is much superior to the
women of the Northern Tribes of Indians.
I trust I have not wearied the patience of
your readers, or that they will not forget to
help the Indian Missionaries with their
faith and prayers.
	MARY STUART
Savoia, New Mexico, March 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
		A TRIP ON THE CARS.

	Towards the latter part of the summer of
1878, circumstances rendered it necessary
for me to make a flying visit to the metro-
polis.
	Having passed over the route several
times, famaliarity with the natural objects
of interest along the line, detracted some-
what their novelty, and as my book failed
to rivet my attention, I devoted myself to
the study of human nature in its various
phases as represented in a railway car.
	There was the usual assortment of pass-
engers, including the old gentleman with
gold-bound spectacles silently devouring
the contents of his newspaper, the chubby-
fisted urchin munching an enormous piece
of cake, the tired mama with the inevitable
restless baby etc. etc.
	My attention was attracted by a company
of gay pleasure seekers consisting of a gen-

[Column 2]
tleman and two ladies. To the elder of the
ladies, and the gentleman, I merely gave a
passing glance in my general hasty survey
of the car, but there was something about
the younger lady that fixed my attention.
She was dark and petite, with liquid brown
eyes and a dimpled laughing mouth. At-
tired in a dainty traveling suit. She looked
as fresh and sweet as a rosebud. In inno-
cent abandon she had thrown her hat aside,
the better to enjoy the mountain breeze
that came through the open window. She
had removed her glove from the perfect
right hand, in which she held a cluster of
bleeding-hearts and pansies. It was a 
pleasant picture to look upon; in fact, sim-
ple perfection from the crown of the curly
head to the tip of the dainty boot.
	Forthwith I commenced to weave roman-
ces about my little party, establishing her
without hesitation upon the pedestal of re-
finement and purity.
	She was engaged in an animated conver-
sation with her companions, the words of
which were inaudible to me. But present-
ly, in answer to some remark from the
gentleman opposite, I saw the laughing
brown eyes raised, the corners of the sweet
mouth dimpled, and the perfect lips formed
the words "you bet!"
	Horror! my air-castles were ruthlessly
dashed to the ground! The radiant crea-
ture whom I had invested with all the
qualities of a refined and noble nature, was
after all only a specimen of the young lady
of the period, who would forfeit her claim
to the attributes one would be led by her
outward appearance to credit her with, by
allowing herself to use slang. I was di[-]ap-
pointed and disgusted, for slang is my pet
aversion.
	I betook myself to my book, finding it
much more satisfactory to study the ficti-
tious characters described by the author,
than the real human creatures by whom
we are surrounded, and whose faults are so
palpable.
	But I could'nt forget the sho[-]k to my
feelings caused by my traveler's careless
words. I could imagine the feelings of
Fanny Fern when she saw a fair young
lady, in an exquisite morning toilette, come
down to the fashionable late hotel break-
fast table, and after examining the exten-
sive bill of fare, order—"Coffee, fried pigs
feet, fried oysters,omelette and pork-steak!"
						JENNIE JINGLE.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	TWENTY ladies graduated from the Wo-
men's Medical College in Philadelphia last
week.

	HEREAFTER, lobbying is classified in
California among the felonies, to be punish-
ed by fine and imprisonment.—Ex.

	A PETITION for the restoration of the 
prohibitory law of 1854, signed by 50[-]0 wo-
men, has been presented in the Seuate in
Connecticut.—Ex.

	THE committee on Woman Suffrage of 
the Connecticut legislature has reported
against giving women the right to vote in
school meetings and on the liquor question.


224		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

	Statistical for Quarter ending March 21,
1879.

Teachers........................................................... 438
Officers and members...................................2248
Average attendance........................................ 659
Church papers reported................................  199
WOMAN'S EXPONENT..................................... 399

FINANCIAL.

On hand at date of last report:
Cash.........................................................$ 455 99
Property.................................................... 5168 47
Wheat....................................................... 2486 bu.
Receipts for Quarter:
Cash.........................................................$ 594 52
Property.................................................... 1153 17
Wheat......................................................... 183 bu.
Disbursed                   Cash                     Property
To the needy...............$334 33...................$958 37
To the Temple............. 113 58.................... 181 36
Home Industries.........            .....................   11 00
Home books...............   35 60....................
To building...................388 99....................
To Indian fund..............            ...................     2 00
In treasury.................... 560 00.........  .........4779 96
2669 bu. of wheat stored.
					M. I. HORNE, Pres.
					E. HOWARD, Sec'y.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE BOX ELDER
STAKE.

	Third Quarterly Conference of R. S. and
Y. L. M. I. A. of Box Elder Stake of Zion,
held March 10, 1879. Pres. Harriet Snow
presiding. Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Bishops
of different localities, Presidents of R. S.,
and officers of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
were present. After singing and prayer
the minutes of previous conference were
read and approved; reports of the branch
societies read by the Secretary. Pres. Har-
riet Snow spoke in her usual motherly
manner upon the principles of our religion,
and then requested the presidents of R. S.
to give verbal reports, who did so, occupy-
ing the principal part of the day. Meeting
adjourned till 10 o'clock March 11.
	Met per adjournment March 11, 1879.
After the opening exercises Pres. H. Snow
addressed the conference, dwelling upon
sericulture, and that the sphere of woman
was one of great importance. The re-
mainder of the day was devoted to the Y.
L. M. I. and P. A. A condensed report of
the Y. L. M. I. A. read by the Secretary,
L. May Snow. Verbal reports by the presi-
dents of both M. I. A. and P. A., each do-
ing honor to the cause of improvement, in
which they seem to be solely engaged.
Reports of P. A. read by Virginia Snow.
Remarks by Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Bishop
Dunford and others. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing. Benediction.
	Quarterly report of R. S. Box Elder
Stake.
Teachers......................................... 93
Members.......................................657
Meetings.......................................118
Average attendance......................421
EXPONENT taken........................ 72
Receipts.
Wheat............................170 bu. 49lbs.
Cash.....$209 24 | Property.....$699 32
Disbursements.
Temple...................................$118 95
Home Industries.....................   44 15
Charitable purposes................   64 35
Lamanites...............................     4 25


Books....................................      6 20
Missionary Fund...................     4 00
Public buildings.................... 345 13
Remaining in Treasury,
Cash..........$50 35 | Property...278 20
					M. E. SNOW, Sec'y.

	Quarterly report of Y. L. M. I. A.
Members...................................  477
Meetings...................................     60
Average attendance...................232

Receipts:
Cash....$119 30 | Property....$117 40

Disbursements:
Temple.................................$   3 50
Public building....................   49 75
Books..................................    42 30
Associations' expenses.......    3 00
Remaining in Treasury:
Cash......$29 75 | Property.....$117 40
		LYDIA MAY SNOW, Sec'y.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	Our Second Quarterly Conference was
held March 14. The officers of the Stake
were all present; the several wards of St.
George were represented by the presidents,
who all gave good reports. President Mi-
nerva Snow feels the spirit of her mission;
she arose and addressed the meeting, speak-
ing words of comfort and encouragement
to the sisters. Mrs. Anna S. Ivins bore her
testimony to the truth of the work. Presi-
dent J. D. T. McAllister was present for a
short time, and advised the sisters to adopt
neatness and simplicity in their style of
dress, and not to follow the fashions of the
world. Rockville was represented by Sis-
ter Smith, and Toquerville by Sister Slack;
both manifested a humble spirit and a de-
sire to do right.
The following is our statistical and finan-
cial report for the quarter:

STATISTICAL.

Teachers................................................  61
Members...............................................605
Meetings................................................100
Average attendance.............................233
WOMAN'S EXPONENT..........................  87

FINANCIAL.

On hand at date of last report:
Cash.................................................$ 15 29
Property.......................................... 983 66
Wheat..................................................5 bu.

Receipts during quarter:

Cash................................................$ 36 15
Property......................................... 216 17
Wheat...............................................70 bu.
Disbursements            Cash.         Property.
To the needy.............$ 5 10..........$   57 41
Emigration................. 27 00
Temple.......................   1 00..........     56 00
Home Industries......    5 90..........     53 41
Books........................    6 65
Missionary................    4 14
On hand....................  76 20.........  2,949 66
Wheat.................................................75 bu.

Relief Society Stake officers:

	Minerva W. Snow, President,
	Anna S. Ivins,		} Counselors.
	Hannah Romney,	}
	Eliza S. Calkins, Secretary,
	Elizabeth P. Bentley, Ass't Sec'y.
	St. George, March 19, 1879.


THE price of Julia E. Smith's Bible is
$3. 00, which includes the postage.


PEOPLE WITHOUT HOMES.

HABITS OF LIFE OF FASHIONABLE ENG-
LISH FAMILIES.

	"Home sweet home, there is no place
like home," is often said and sung by peo-
ple who never care to be at home, and in-
deed are ever ready to escape from home,
and when at home are always looking for-
ward to the happy time when they shall
escape from the dreary, humdrum place.
In truth these people have no home; they
have a dwelling, but a dwelling is not the
exact synonym of a home. Architects can
build you a dwelling and put in it every
possible convenience--make it, as the arch-
itects say, replete with conveniences, but
no architect can make a home of it. Neither
Michel Angelo nor Palladio could do that.
Architects can build you a house, but to 
make it a home is beyond their power.
And yet the thing is not difficult to do. Day
laborers can do it. Not far from where I
live there is a palatial residence. It stands
in a magnificent park studded with ancient
trees. Dappled deer and tall antlered stags
roam about in the park. I have never been 
in the house, but I am told by one who
has—by the gardener, in fact—that all that
art can achieve has been done to make it a 
perfect residence, and yet, as my friend
told me, it is rarely occupied by the family.
In the London season, if not abroad, they
live in Belgrave Square. As soon as the
season is over they are off to the Continent
—Paris, Naples or Rome. In the winter
my Lord, and perhaps my Lady (there are
no children), come down, my Lord to hunt
and shoot; but they seldom stop there more
than a month or so; my Lady never more
than two or three weeks, as she "doesn't
like the place."
	"Well" he replied, "they never seem to
me to have what I should call a home. They
are never often together, and my Lord has
his friends, and my Lady hers. At least so I 
am told, but we know but very little here
about their London life. All I have to do 
with them is to send twice or three times a 
week fruit and flowers to the butler. Come
he said, and see my home."
	"With all my heart," said I, and im-
mediately we crossed the park and entered
a pretty double cottage, which I saw at
once was a "home." The room was spot-
lessly clean, as was everything in it. On
the sill of the quarried window was a row
of brilliant flowers. Through the open door
which led into the garden the sweet voices
of young children came to my ears. Pres-
ently the buxom matron came to greet me,
and asked me to take refreshments.
	"This," said my friend, as he dropped
into an old-fashioned easy-chair, "is my
home."
	"When I come here after my work is
done I do not envy my Lord."
"Nor I, my Lady," said the wife; "poor
miserable creatures." — Temperance Re-
former.


(THE General Statutes of Massachusetts
exempts property to the amount of $500 of
a widow or unmarried woman, and of any
"female" minor whose father is deceased,
if her whole estate, real or personal, not
otherwise exempted from taxation, does
not exceed in value the sum of $1,000. This
law, as it now stands, was framed in 1860,
but a law to exempt certain personal prop-
erty of unmarried women and widows
dates back to 1853. ED. N. C.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOU WILT NEVER GROW OLD.

BY MRS. HOWARTH.

Thou wilt never grow old,
	Nor weary, nor sad, in the home of thy birth:
My beautiful lily, thy leaves will unfold
	In a clime that is purer and brighter than earth.
Oh, holy and fair, I rejoice thou art there,
	In that kingdom of light, with its cities of gold;
Where the air thrills with angel hosannas, and where
		Thou wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

I am a pilgrim, with sorrow and sin
	Haunting my footsteps wherever I go:
Life is a warfare my title to win—
	Well will it be if it end not in woe.
Pray for me, sweet; I am laden with care;
	Dark are my garments with mildew and mould;
Thou, my bright angel, art sinless and fair,
		And wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

Now, canst thou hear, from thy nome in the skies,
	All the fond words I am whispering to thee?
Dost thou look down on me with the soft eyes,
	Greeting me oft ere thy spirit was free:
So I believe, though the shadows of time
	Hide the bright spirit I yet shall behold;
Thou wilt still love me, and, pleasure sublime,
		Thou wilt never grow old, sweet—
			Never grow old!

Thus wilt thou be when the pilgrim grown gray,
	Weeps when the vines from the hearthstone are riv[-]n;
Faith shall behold thee, as pure as the day
	Thou wert torn from the earth and transplanted to
		heaven.
Oh, holy and fair, I rejoice thou art there,
	In that kingdom of light, with its cities of gold,
Where the air thrills with angel hosannas, and where
		Thou wilt never grow o[-]d: sweet—
			Never grow old!


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
CRITICISM OF ANTI-POLYGAMY ME-
MORIAL.

	In reading the Memorial of the ladies of
the Anti-Polygamy Society, to Congress,
I find statements which in my estima-
tion are entirely erroneous and evince a
great lack of knowledge.
	First they state that Delegate Cannon
was petitioning for amnesty and promising
obedience to the law of 1862.
	Now I never heard through any other
source that Brother Cannon ever made such
a promise. I read in the "Deseret News"
that certain members of Congress proposed
something of the kind to him, but I feel
positive that he never accepted it. If he
had he would have died politically and re-
ligiously, for he has borne testimony in pub-
lic that plurality of wives was revealed to
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and that it was
a true principle. And had he given such a
promise, what assurance could he have had
that this constituents would obey, when he
knew that they had accepted that principle
as a part of their religious faith.
	Second: they also state that President
John Taylor while in France in 1853, then
having five wives, denied IN TOTO the ex-
istence of polygamy among the Mormons.
Here the memorialists are in error again.
In answer to this I will make a quotation
from the work entitled, "Three nights pub-
lic discussion between the Reverends C. W.
Cleeve, James Robertson, and Philip Cater,
and Elder John Taylor; on the 11, of July
1850 at Boulogne-sur-mer, France."
	Elder John Taylor speaking in reference
to some works published of an obscene
character referring to this people, says;
	We are accused here of polygamy and
actions the most indelicate, obscene and
disgusting, such as none but a corrupt and
depraved heart could have contrived, these
things are too outrageous to admit of belief,
therefore leaving the sisters of the white

[Column 2]

veil, the black veil and all other veils
with those gentlemen to dispose of togeth-
er with their authors as they think best. I
shall content myself by reading our views
of chastity and marriage, from a work pub-
lished by us.
	I fail to see any denial of plurality of
wives in the above extract and failed to do
so at the time, and wondered that he did
not do so, as the revelation on that subject
was not published until 1852, and think
his hearers had on some kind of very thick
veils or they could have seen it.
	Thirdly; they accuse the "Deseret News"
of casting reproach on the Supreme Court
of the Unitid States, that the decision in
the Reynolds case was rendered under pop-
ular pressure by judges who are feeble wit-
ted and cloudy minded.
	The memorialists had "Deseret News"
in such large letters before their eyes that
they failed to see the accusations of many
Eastern papers far more derogatory, even
hinting that these same judges accepted
$ 250,000 for their decision in the Electoral
College case.
	We have had the skimmed milk now
for the cream.
	Fourth; they ask Congress to so amend
the act of 1862 that it may become opera-
tive by making the general reputation of
conjugal relations proof of marriage and
living together in polygamy to constitute
the offence.
	Oh! Oh! Oh! just to think of Congress
making such a law. What would become
of them if they did, our penitenitaries would
be filled full of men who fill high positions
and are honored members of the best so-
ciety, and there would be but few left to
receive Anti-Polygamy petitions. If re-
port says true, the honorable petitioners
might have spared themselves the time
and expense of sending their petition: were
it granted it would strike home too close,
"for those that live in glass houses dare
not throw stones.
	MARY.
Grantsville, April 6, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMENTS ON THE ANTI-POLYGAMY
				PETITION.

	On reading the last anti-polygamy peti-
tion and letter to Mrs. R. B. Hayes I could
not but query in my mind what the insti-
gators of that petition and letter wished to
accomplish.  Was it to rescue fallen, de-
graded creatures from the grasp of their
destroyers? Was it to introduce truth for
error? To give homes to the homeless,
husbands to the husbandless, and children
to make glad the hearts of the desolate?
Or was it to enact laws that would improve
our social position, make us better citizens
and allow us that liberty of conscience that
the fathers of this free and enlightened
country fought and died for? No! these
were not the motives.
	Wicked and designing men would like to
take possession of our happy homes, our
hard-earned property, our beautiful gardens
and fields of smiling grain; of our virtuous
and pure-minded daughters; it is this they
want. They would like to introduce their
grog shops and dens of iniquity, their bil-
liard rooms, and also their sectarian church-
es. How soon would our pleasant, happy
homes be turned into resorts for worldly-
minded men and women, yes, even evil
spirits and birds of prey; and because we
will not submit to these outrages, like the
fox they cry "sour grapes."
	Men from the first have signally failed in


their attempts to put down plural marriage;
now they have called to their aid some
foolish women—for foolish they are in this
respect, no matter how wise and intelligent
they may be in others. By flattery and
poor-pussyism they have so blinded these
women that they fail to comprehend the
motives of these unprincipled men, and are
led on to become traitors to their fellow-
sisters, to their own good common sense,
and to themselves as ladies of this enlight-
ened age. What care these busy-bodies for
the purity of this people, our social posi-
tion, our family relations, our prosperity,
our loyalty to the parent government?
	But it is this: we serve the true and liv-
ing God; we are willing to keep His com-
mandments and to raise up to Him a God-
fearing people—noble, stalwart sons, virtu-
ous, spiritual-minded daughters, who will
build up a kingdom of righteousness, and
make the earth fit for the coming of the
Son of man.
	Surely the blackness of darkness has
overshadowed them; and they see the pure
and humble through their own darkened
mirror. We ask not their sympathy, we
need it not; we care not for their censure,
we serve the Lord according to the dictates
of our consciences. We are determined to
stand by the right! We cannot give up our
husbands! we cannot allow our children to
be branded illegitimate!  Better let us hide
in the dens and caves of the earth, than
give up any of the pure principles of the
holy Gospel of the Son of God. The vision
becomes clearer. The winds may howl and
the waves dash against the old ship, Zion;
some of the seamen are washed overboard,
yet she rides majestically on, for at the
helm stands the Lord God of Hosts, and I
hear the still small voice say, "Fear not,
my children, I will fight your battles and
bring you safe to that desired haven of
peace and rest.
				M ELIZABETH LITTLE.
	March 20, 1879.


MINETSVILLE, BEAVER CO.

						March 17, 1879.

EDITIOR EXPONENT:

	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvem ent
Association here meet every Saturday.  We
number thirty six members. Our exercises
consist of Book of Mormon class, read-
ing from Church works and bearing testi-
mony. Much of the good spirit is felt in
our meetings. We also edit a monthly pa-
per entitled the "Young Ladies' Index:"
many excellent pieces are contributed by
the members of the Association. We de-
sire with the help of the Lord to do some
good, and be co-workers with our brethren
to help roll on the Latter-day work. Know-
ing that great events are at our doors, and
unless we keep pace with the times we
shall fall short of the blessings in store for
the faithful.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
			Margaret A. Goodman, Pres.
			Frances Pamela Wood, Sec'y.


ALL unmarried women and widows in
England who are householders or rent-pay-
ers, can now vote on municipal questions.
But the Parliamentary Suffrage is still
withheld. The vote on the bill for this 
last was 103 for, to 217 against. The steady
work and courage of the Suffragists of
Great Britain will continue till Suffrage
there is as free to women as to men.


226		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
ZION'S HOPE.

	How often the remark is made that much of
Zion's future welfare depends upon the gener-
ation now growing up in these mountains.
Children born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, lawful heirs to the holy priesthood,
children of promise. Yet how little have pa-
rents realized in the past the responsibilities
that rested upon them as the guardians to whose
care these precious spirits were entrusted. This
is the most difficult subject to treat upon, and
yet it is, perhaps, the most important one at
the present time. It embraces a large field of
great truths, and truths too, which should be
presented in a light that will strike forcibly the
fathers and mothers, tutors, guardians and
protectors of children.
	The subject itself forces upon the mind the
widest range of thought in the greatest variety
of phases.
	That the education of the youth in Zion
should be more carefully considered than it has
been, none will deny. That there is a slow
awakening to the enormity of the inevitable
result of neglect in the past is true; but even
this is only among the few. To relieve, in
some little degree, the tired and sometimes
overburdened mother, the Lord inspired (we
cannot say less) a few of his handmaidens to
introduce in the various wards and settlements
what is termed Primary Associations. These
are more especially for spiritual culture and to
impress upon the young and innocent the ac-
tual necessity of that training which develops
the higher nature.
	We are fully aware that much has been said
to mothers, more particularly in regard to the
disciplining of their children, that they may
grow up to be noble, honest, industrious and
virtuous men and women, honorable members
of society, and set an example worthy of imita-
tion. But to reach the hearts of children is
more especially what is needed; all the moral
lessons in the world will not eradicate the evils
which exist among the young, and which of late
are becoming so vividly apparent unless the
hearts of the children can be reached. To edu-
cate and cultivate the heart of the child to the
highest and noblest aspirations seems to us the
only possible method of correcting the wrongs
th[-]t now exist to an alarming extent. There are
of course some, perhaps many exceptions, but
even among the Latter-day Saints the children
are in many ways neglected in not being taught
principles that will give them strength and
power to resist temptation and flee from evil
influences.
	Notwithstanding the most careful and judi-
cious solicitude and watchfulness, children
will sometimes go astray and bring sorrow and
grief to the most conscientious and God fearing
parents; and in summing up or noticing in-
stances of this kind, it really seems there

[Column 2]
must be a wrong that dates far back and crops
out again after long years. These are things
not yet comprehended by those who have made
the science of life the study of years. These
are among the mysteries yet to be unfolded;
but to return to the simplicity of our subject.
	The Savior said, "Love is of God," and a com-
mon saying is "Love begets love," and "there
is no labor in love," these and many other fa-
miliar quotations might be given from the
Scriptures, and eminent authors; but the lives
of men and women themselves confirm the fact
that children must be trained up in love; and
"perfect love casteth out fear." Indulgence is
not love, nor the out-growth of love, but of
weakness, want of firmness, lack of decision,
energy, and of the requsites of character that
constitute true government, either in the
family or State.
	Mothers must, or should possess this con-
trolling or governing power to a large extent,
otherwise they are wholly unfitted to under-
take the training of immortal souls. There is
nothing more important in a woman's life
than the exercise of self-government, which
will admirably qualify her to govern wisely the
precious jewels committed to her charge. Per-
haps we should not be so positive, or speak of it
in so broad a sense; but until the children of
Zion are taught from their very infancy to res-
train evil passions, and direct the good properly,
it is useless to expect thorough reformation. If
the most delicate plants, transplanted from a
sunny soil, were given to those who dwell in
less genial climes, perhaps exposed to heavy
dews and poisonous gases, would they not need
the most constant care, that they might be pre-
served, and could it be expected they would
blossom into beauty without their nature and
condition being carefully studied.
	Yet it is expected that children transplanted
from heavenly soil need but little care and at-
tention while very young, except to minister to
their material wants. Children's natures
should be studied and they cannot be too ten-
derly, if judiciously cared for. And yet in this
land of enligtenment, there are children grow-
ing up without affection. Mothers are so busy
making and mending, and attending to house-
hold duties, they forget the little hearts that
beat beneath the elaborate or simple garments,
(it matters not which it may be) and so the little
child is sent out to play or off to school, and
merges into boyhood or girlhood lacking the
true cultivation of its best instincts, purified
through the fountain of mother-love.
	Duties of parents are not easily defined, even
in a general sense, and circumstances, temper-
aments, conditions and changes all have their
relative effect, but there is one grand, primeval
truth which characterizes all instances, and
that is the fact that, to the father and mother
the existence of the soul is due, and children
should not be thrown upon the world wholly
unprepared and unfortified, for their life-work.
Mothers do not drive your children from you,
but draw them near you and teach them the
pure principles of the Gospel, in love and ten-
derness, and while you would extend charity to
all, be sure you do not forget to bestow such
charity upon them, as their tender years and
hearts have need of. Do not wait until it is
too late to make the impression, but while you
have time and affection, spare no pains, but
remember the highest and holiest duty is the
charge of human souls. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON THURSDAY, April 17th, the Relief Society
of Davis County, will hold their annual meet-

[Column 2]

ing in the Farmington Meeting-house. It is
expected President Eliza R. Snow and other
sisters from this city will attend.
	TELEGRAM FROM Washington, April 14, states
that Arthur L. Thomas, of Piitsburg, has been
confirmed by the Senate as Secretary of Utah
Territory.
	ON MONDAY, April 14, at 12 o'clock, the cor-
ner stones of the Manti Temple were laid with
all the grand and imposing ceremony which
distinguish occasions such as these in building
Temples to the Most High. There were pres-
ent nine of the Apostles. President John
Taylor called the congregation to order, which
consisted of between three and four thousand
people.
	ON SUNDAY evening a large and crowded audi-
ence assembled in the Theatre at the Territo-
rial meeting of the Sunday Schools. All
parts of the Territory were definitely represent-
ed. The people were delighted to have in their
midst Hon. Geo. Q Cannon, delegate to Con-
gress and Territorial Superintendent of Sunday
Schools. He came home on a flying visit to
attend Conference.
	THE Territorial Conference of the Y. M. M.
I. A. was held in the Theatre on Tuesday eve-
ning, April 8th, 1879. The report was nearly
complete from every section of the Territory.
These societies are doing a great deal towards
the elevation and spiritual culture and im-
provement of the young. The audience was
very large, and after reading the reports, ad-
dresses were made by Elders Joseph F. Smith,
Erastus Snow, Moses Thatcher and Junius F.
Wells.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of this Stake
of Zion convened in the Tabernacle on Satur-
day, April 5th, at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M.
Cannon presiding. Reports were read from all
the wards; a few bishops also reported verbally.
The Relief Society, the Y. M. M. I. A. and the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake were also repre-
sented. Pres. Cannon stated very definitely
the condition of the building committee on the
New Tabernacle: just how much money was
needed to complete the work. A vote was
taken that the money should be furnished by
the people through the bishops of the several
wards. The Conference was well attended.
	ON SUNDAY morning, April 6, at 10 o'clock,
the hosts of Israel convened in the Tabernacle
to hold their Forty-Ninth Annual Conference.
The house was crowded to overflowing, and
many really could not obtain admission. The
Conference lasted three consecutive days, the
interest of speakers and hearers never flagging
in the least. Many powerful discourses were
delivered, and the people who came from a
distance must have felt amply repaid for their
toil and journey. The people need feeding
with the bread of life, and on occasions such as
these they partake freely. The Quorum of the
Twelve, in which the death of Elder Orson
Hyde had made a vacancy, was filled by elect-
ing Elder Moses Thatcher to complete the
number. It is impossible to make quotations,
even from the speakers' sermons, as much was
said that was excellent—but we cannot forbear
mentioning the fact that the sisters were not
forgotten. President John Taylor alluded to
the sisters' organizations, their benevolence
and their good works in a truly brotherly man-
ner, and it will no doubt encourage and
strengthen them in their several fields of labor.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to give a brief account of a meeting
held in the 3d Ward Nov. 14, 1878, which was
called for the purpose of reorganizing the


Young Ladies' Association. Sisters S. M.
Heywood and Marinda Hyde were present,
and the reorganization was completed as fol-
lows:

	Martha Smith, President.
	Louisa Irvine,	} Counselors.
	Agnes Balto,		}
	Della Eardley, Secretary.
	Annie Weiler, Treasurer.
	After the business of organizing was finished,Sisters Heywood and Hyde made some very
interesting and appropriate remarks to the
girls, urging them to be faithful to their duties
and punctual to their meetings, and try and
create a spirit of kindness towards each other.
Their remarks were followed by several sisters
belonging to the ward, they having a great
desire for the welfare of the young, and will
do all they can in assisting to make their meet-
ings beneficial to them.
	There are thrirty-four members belonging to
the Relief Society in the Ward. The general
attendance is very small, but those few are
alive to their duties, and we wish unitedly to
be co-workers with our sisters throughout the
Church in building up the kingdom of God.
	Ever with you in the Gospel,
		MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres't.
		MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Sec'y.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of the 8th Ward convened in the
ward meeting house, Feb. 21, 1879. Mrs. M.
A. Freeze, President of Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake of Zion, and her Counselors, were pre-
sent. Meeting opened in the usual way. Mrs.
Louie Felt made some excellent remarks;
spoke upon young girls choosing partners for
life, and associating with those who are not of
our faith; also spoke upon the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, and advised every one to be 
careful what they say about it. She said she
was sorry so many mothers neglected to answer
their children when they asked questions.
	Mrs. Clara Young Conrad made a few re-
marks, and related how she received a testimo-
ny of this work. Miss Sarah Barney then
sang a song. Mrs. Freeze said: "There is a
calm and peac[-]ful influence in our midst. I
am pleased to see the punctuality you have in
commencing your meeting, and also the order
that is here. Store your minds with useful
knowledge, and try to improve In everything."
She dwelt earnestly upon the principle of Ce-
lestial marriage and the joy there is in seeing
cheerfulness. Advised every one to keep the
Word of Wisdom. Remarks were made by
several others, after which Pres. Mary Leaver
and Counselor Chamberlain made a few closing
remarks. Benediction
		MRS. MARY S. Leaver, Pres't.
		MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Sec'y.
		MISS LIZZIE NEEDHAM, Ass't Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		227


[For the EXPONENT.
	THE DANGER IN READING BAD
					BOOKS.

	The world is full of books, journals and news-
papers, and they are not all good. A bad book
must in the nature of things be written by a 
bad man or woman, since a good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit: hence the time you spend
in reading bad books is so much time spent in
company with a bad character. There is a 
powerful influence for evil in reading, and it is
not so perceptible at the time, because of its
silent power. Your life and conduct will re-
flect the company you keep and the books you
read; you cannot come in contact with filth
without some of it sticking to you. It is not
the quantity of reading, but the quality that
should be considered. The reading of bad


books has done more during the last fifteen
years in our country to poison the minds of
young people, lower the standard of high moral
rectitude, and shut the heart against the Spirit
and word of God, than almost any other evil.
Go to the convict's cell and ask what kind of
books he has read; he will tell you, in nine
cases out of ten, if he has read any, that they
were bad books—tales of crime portrayed in 
glowing colors, which roused the evil passions
and unholy desires that might have lain dor-
mant in the heart. Show me the youth that
pores over tales of fiction, and I will show you
a fictitious character. Better not to read at all
than to read bad books. It is just as essential
that books and reading matter should be care-
fully chosen as the company we keep. I en-
treat you, especially young people, to shun all
books that advocate false systems of religion.
Let the Bible be your daily companion, and
make yourself familiar with such books as
have been written by the best of men. And
choose biographies of the best men who have
lived in this or other ages, and follow them as 
far as they have followed Christ.
	By reading light literature it destroys rather
than improves the mind; it does not awaken
the reflective organs, or give rise to elevating
thought. Yet this trash finds ready sale in 
our cities, while the more solid works and good
books are neglected. Our talents are not given
us for our own special use, but for each to bene-
fit the other. Then store your minds with use-
ful knowledge that will be beneficial to society.
There is more glory in mounting the hill of
science through our own perseverance, than if
we had thousands of help. Knowledge is
boundless, and if we study a lifetime with the
greatest zeal we could not say "I have learned
all and am perfect."
	How often has the world been benefitted by
the ideas of one person. For instance, the in-
ventive man, by the aid of labor and close ap-
plication to study, wins for himself a name
that will ever be respected. Observe these
things, and every experience will be to us
means of advancement. In the business of
life there is satisfaction in conquering difficul-
ties.
	I am so much interested for the young peo-
ple, I am desirous of warning them against
the coming of those who are trying to deceive
them and lead them from the truth.
	MARY JANE CROSBY.
East Bountiful, Feb. 7, 1879.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, of diphtheria, Feb. 8, in Bellevue, Kane
County, Jeremiah Johnson, aged four years
and ten months. We deeply sympathize with
Brother and Sister Johnson in the death of this
little boy, and can only say to them, as we were
compelled to acknowledge in our own sore be-
reavement, "God knoweth best."

	DIED, in Snowville, Box Elder Co, Sister
Mary B. Potter. She was baptized in Leices-
ter, England, in 1843; emigrated to Utah in
1863; was married to Richard Potter, Dec. 1,
1866, and departed this life July 28, aged 73
years, 3 months, and 20 days. She lived and
died a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	SAD DEATH—In Harrisburg, Washington
Co., April 4, Samuel Russel, infant son of Re-
vi[-]o and Mary D. Fuller, was drowned in their
own well on the corner of their lot. When
they found him they thought perhaps he might
be resuscitated, but all their exertions proved
unavailing. The child's age was one year and
ten months. We sympathize with the bereaved
parents; only God can comfort those so sorely
bereft.


DIED in Virgin City, Kane County, Utah,
in child birth, Betsy Christena Jenson, born at
Fulster, Denmark, January 13th, 1844. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1854. She was married to
Charles Burke in 1859, and was the mother of
nine children, died March 18th, 1879. Her hus-
band was called to Dixie in the year 1861, and
they have lived there ever since. She was a
faithful member of the Relief Society from its
organization, and was ever ready and willing
to impart to those who needed assistance. She
was an honored and loving wife, a kind and
gentle mother, and always gave good counsel
to her family and friends, who now deeply feel
her loss. Although they feel an assurance
that their loss is her gain. We feel a deep sym-
pathy for the bereaved husband and motherless
children, and her aged mother and step-father
who have been called to part with an affec-
tionate daughter. Her funeral was large for a
small settlement; thirteen vehicles formed the
procession that followed her remains to the
grave. Our whole community mourn her loss,
we feel to say she filled a mission of usefulness,
and has gone to receive her reward with the
faithful in Christ Jesus.
	E. PARKER and E. D. GARDNER.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of deep regret we record
the demise of one of our beloved sisters, Isa-
bella Catherine Maxwell, daughter of Ralph
and Isabella Maxwell of Peoa, Summit Co.
Deceased was born Jan. 4, 1864; she departed
this life Feb. 11, 1879, aged fifteen years, one
month and seven days. After great and con-
tinued suffering she at last quietly fell asleep.
She has left loving and affectionate parents
and friends to mourn her loss, and while we
sympathize with the bereaved family and feel
the loss of our dear sister, we can look forward
to the day when the faithful dead shall hear
the angel's trump, and rise to shine as the sun
forever. We do not mourn as those without
hope. No, my sisters. Let us prepare our-
selves while here on earth to dwell with our
Father in heaven. Our dear sister whose death
we record was a member of the Y. L. M. I. As-
sociatiation in Peoa; she was ever anxious to
do good, and she was loved and respected by
all who knew her.—Com.


HOTEL RATES, ST. LOUIS.—LETTER
FROM MRS. MINOR.

DEAR MRS. GAGE:
	The Indianapolis & St. Louis R. R. say from
stations on their lines will give return tickets
to those attending the N. S. Convention, if ap-
plied for at Office in St. Louis.
	Illinois & St. Louis R. R. give return tickets.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis return to Alton
only. Others not heard from.
	"Missouri roads refuse because the Legisla-
ture fixed their rates." As we are not repre-
sented in the Legislature it is perfectly proper
that we should be punished for its actions.
Hotel Barnum, on the European plan, situ-
ated corner 6th and Washington avenue, 3
squares from the Hall, will reduce rates for
members of the Con. This Hotel is just
opened, everything new, and the Barnum's
have had for thirty years the reputation of
keeping the best table in the city, so that who-
ever is so fortunate as to be their guest will be
sure to be well taken care of.
	The Laclide Hotel takes the delegates to the
Homoeopathic Convention for $2 per day,
meals and all, and would doubtless take our
delegates at the same price, but it is farther
from the Hall. Both of these are fine and rea-
sonable houses.—N. C. & B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	My very dear sister:—This is the first
time I have ventured to address you as an
editor, but your time is so much taken up
with public duties that it is hard to find
you at leisure for an hour; so I take this
way of claiming your attention, and to ex-
press my opinion of your late visit to Wash-
ington.
	I heard you say at one of our meetings,
that if the sisters thought you had a good
time while absent they were very much
mistaken. I for one can readily believe
you in this; to me it appears the most ardu-
ous mission any of our sisters (as yet) have
been called upon to perform. It must have
been a trial for two plural wives to meet
the talented and worthy ladies of the Con-
vention, at a time when prejudice towards
us as a people abounds to such an extent.
Even the very best of those ladies were
very careful to have it understood that their
acquaintance with the Utah ladies was all
included in Woman Suffrage. When I read
of the charitable acts and self-denial of those
honorable women, I think of the young
man whom our Savior loved; the Scripture
tells us He found him lacking in one thing
and sent him away sorrowful.
	I do not think it was any great trial for
you to meet the question of woman suffrage.
That is a national subject and pertains to 
earthly things, and there was no difficulty
you need feel or suffer on that point. But
you went to the highest court of this great
nation as a Delegate from the women of the 
Latterday Saints—as an advocate to plead
the cause of those who practise the laws
and ordinances of the Gospel, as revealed
from heaven in this our day; and the faith
and power which was exercised for you was
very great. You were answerable to God
for all your words and actions, and this I
consider the most vital subject of your mis-
sion.
	You were surrounded by the wisdom and
learning of this great nation; those who
would read your very thoughts before you
could utter them. I assure you my thoughts
were with you all the time, praying the 
Lord to give you strength and wisdom, so
you could speak by the same power as St.
Paul did when speaking before King
Agrippa.
	I have had some experience myself, from
twenty-five to thirty years ago, in England,
my native land. I was well established in 
the business of millinery and dressmaking,
before I knew of the Latter-day Saints and
for eight years after I joined them. I
worked for many highly connected ladies,
some of whom were titled. It soon became
known in the small town where I lived that
I had joined the Mormons (so called), but
my business did not suffer, it was too well
established. As a rule ladies did not con-
descend to converse with trades people, ex-
cept upon business. About that time po-
lygamy was first published; and one very
pious lady came and told me she respected
me so much that she would like to have a 
talk with me. She asked me how I could
think of leaving the pure and holy Church
that I was brought up in (meaning the
Church of England), and believing such
awful doctrines as those strange people
taught. I told her the Bible taught me to
believe in the restoration of all things, con-
sequently plural marriage was a Patriarchal
order and had to be restored, and I had
considered lately a great deal upon the de-
graded condition of my own sex, and I said
the Christain maiden (in my opinion) was
not protected half as well as the Turkish

[Column 2]
maiden, and their cries had gone up before
God and He was preparing a way of escape.
The lady then spoke of reformatory institu-
tions and societies for the amelioration of
the fallen, and told of some six different
societies that she and Sir John (her hus-
band) subscribed to. I told her I did not
think that method would ever reach the
foundation of the evil. That women, par-
ticularly the poorer class, would never prac-
tise celibacy; they must have protection.
The nature of the sex is compared to the
vine, continually reaching for support. She
got vexed and said: "Well, Mrs.—what
would you propose to do? would you rec-
ommend your husband to marry one of
these women?" I told her that would all
depend on circumstances; but I would tell
her what I was prepared to do, If she would
like to hear me. So I proceeded, and said
if I saw an innocent girl belonging to that
class in danger, I would take her to my
home, and by love and kindness win her
over to better ways; and, eventually, if it
was agreeable to my husband and the girl,
would give my consent to their marriage;
and if my husband is a man of God, he
would love me all the more for the sacri-
fice. And if all honorable women would
act on this plan there would soon be a great
revolution. The lady arose and said, "I
thought I was a great and good philanthro-
pist, but I could not do that.
							E. L. H.
	Salt Lake City, April 3, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Dear Sister:—I have received several
specimens of insects which infest the wheat
and wheat flour in this vicinity, from Bro.
S. I. Sudbury of the Empire Flour Mill.
That gentleman has imparted much infor-
mation to me, which would probably be
new to many of your readers, for which
reason I lay before you the result of his ob-
servations, and those of entomologists who 
have paid attention to this branch of natural
history.
	It is found that for preserving grain from
the ravages of weevil and other insect pests,
it is necessary to have sound bins placed in
well ventilated stone rooms; that where
grain has become infected, kiln drying
must be resorted to, at a temperature not
higher than 167° Fahrenheit, for twelve
hours; or, the grain may be fumigated in 
close vessels by charcoal gas. This last
method appears to me to be less practical
and more dangerous than drying in ovens,
or kilns. The rationale of either process is
to deprive the grain of moisture, which
favors heating and the development of in-
sect life. Brother Sudbury's mode of effect-
ing this condition appears to be based upon
very reasonable conclusions, and has the
merit of having been practically tested by
him. He uses very fine, dry, air-slacked
lime, which is well mixed with the grain,
in the proportion of two bushels to the 
thousand bushels. In practice this has been
found to answer, even with "smutty"
wheat, from which the lime is readily sepa-
rated by putting it through the smut ma-
chine. It seems that "the grain is made
brighter" in appearance, and entirely free
from everything objectionable, if indeed
lime can be considered so, which I very much
doubt, it being in such infinitesmal quanti-
ties. Of the great importance of well sea-
soned and tight bins, as well as good venti-
lation, there can be no doubt, as insects get
through very small crevices. Besides this,
such places are resorted to by the parents
to deposit their eggs. For this reason open
granaries have been found preferable to de-

[Column 3]
fective bins, as the grain can be seen, turned
over and ventilated. I have had flour on 
exhibition which had been "cached" for
several years in dry situations, and there
has been no sign of insect life. But as soon
as it has been brought to this city and ex-
posed, even in cabinets, life has been devel-
oped. The danger that besets flour is the 
result of lack of care among some people,
for which their neighbors have to suffer.
Careful watching and cleansing, with ven-
tilation, are the safeguards against destruc-
tive insects; darkness, damp and dirt are
the sources of evil in the granaries and
flour bins as they favor development of de-
graded life forms. This reasoning applies
to moths, beetles and other vermin affect-
ing grain, corn, peas, beans, rice and other
articles of food. Should it not be trespass-
ing on your space, I may again address you
on this subject, and show some of the
modes of distinguishing between our 
friends and foes in the insect world.
	With great respect,
		Yours very fraternally,
					JOSEPH BARFOOT,
	Museum, Salt Lake City, April 2, 1879.


REFLECTIONS.

	A few reflections have passed through
my mind while reading the travels of our
worthy sisters, yourself and Mrs. Williams,
your doings and your reception, both at
Washington and elsewhere, in the presence
of Mrs. Hayes, the President, Senators, or
Representatives of the houses of Congress,
all treating you with kindness, courtesy
and due respect. I felt while considering
this subject that man was not the only be-
ing endowed with power from on High to
go forth and battle with the enemy of all
righteousness; and I felt there must have
been legions of holy angels round about our
sisters, to ward off the powers of darkness
and open up the way before them, that they
might have access to the ruling powers of
this mighty nation and tell them the truths
of heaven. I felt that God was with our
sisters and is at the helm, and though
wicked men and women may try to do all
they can to oppose those who seek to up-
hold and sustain this work, God will say,
"Thus far shalt thou go and no further."
	It seems as though we have to pass
through a rough and thorny path, and be
tried and tempted, as Jesus, our elder
Brother, was, and Joseph, our beloved pro-
phet, in order that we may attain to the
glories of the word to come. I feel if we
will live our religion, attend to our duties
at home, get the holy influence of the
Spirit of God to be with us, we would have
access to the heavenly powers above, and
have the angels of God to aid and assist us
to battle with the power of the lower re-
gions that surround us and seek to lead
away the unwary; we should have power
to put them away from us, that they might
only associate with their own kindred spir-
its. Then we could live like the people of
Enoch, or like the Nephites on this conti-
nent when they were all converted to the
Lord—no poor or rich, no division or con-
tention, all united in the work of the Lord.
	AMY MILLER.
Fayette, March 8, 1879.


THERE is a limit to the work that can be
got out of a human body, or a human brain,
and he is a wise man who wastes no energy
on pursuits for which he is not gifted; and
he is still wiser who from among the things
that he can do well chooses and resolutely
follows the best.—W. E. Gladstone.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿MRS. STANTON'S. OPENING SPEECH
AT THE WASHINGTON CONVEN-
TION.

	For eleven consecutive years, women
citizens of the United States have assem-
bled here in Washington, to ask that the
principles of our government be carried to
their logical results, making women equal
with men before the law. And we have
asked this not only for the protection of
one-half the people of this nation, but for
the safety of the nation itself, for every
violation of a great principle is sure to be
followed by its penalty. Our fathers de-
clared the equality of the human family,
but by their laws enslaved the African race,
and all women. But the experiment of
limiting universal principles to a favored
few is ever fraught with danger; liberty
for white men only convulsed the nation
for half a century; and mid the thundering
cannon of a civil war the requiem of slavery
was chanted round the world. Out of this
baptism of blood, statesmen with clearer
moral vision saw for a time a new signifi-
cance in the words, justice, liberty and
equality, and in the 13th, 14th and 15th
amendments declared the status of an
American citizen, and the rights, privileges
and immunities involved in citizenship.
When learned judges, lawyers and philoso-
phers, gave it as their opinion that woman
too was enfranchised by the 14th amend-
ment, with new hope we pondered the con-
stitution of our country, and felt that at
last it was indeed the Magna Charta of our
rights.
	With kindling interest we listened to the
eloquence of leading statesmen in their
paeans to liberty, and words cannot describe
the joy that filled our hearts. To realize at
last the hopes so long deferred was happi-
ness such as they only who have belonged
to a disfranchised class can understand.
	To make assurance doubly sure, women
in many States tested their new found
rights, at college doors, in the courts, at the
ballot-box. Some asked the right to prac-
tice law, and were denied; some voted and
were arrested; some tested their civil and 
political rights in the Supreme Courts of
the United States, and thousands petitioned
Congress to declare that women were en-
franchised under the 14th amendment, but
they prayed and petitioned in vain. Though
every great principle involved in the
amendments, and all the thrilling debates
of the republican party since the war, have
been freighted with new hopes of freedom
for all citizens, yet no sooner have the
pleading voices and glowing periods of these
statesmen died away, than woman learned
that they had no significance for her. The
Supreme Court of the United States and
Congress in their decisions and arguments
on the constitutional rights of woman, have
alike stultified themselves and falsified both
the letter and spirit of these amendments,
in making them a protection for one class
of citizens and a new denial of political
freedom for another. We prophesied on
this platform, years ago, that this violation
of principle and the spirit of the amend-
ments, the illogical decisions in our courts
and the frivolous arguments in Congress on
the constitutional rights of woman, must
blunt the moral sense of the whole nation
and ultimately imperil the liberties of the
colored voters of the South; and our pro-
phesies are fulfilled, President Hayes in his
last message complaining that the spirit of
these amendments have not been faithfully
fulfilled by the Southern States; and for the
best of reasons they have never been ful-

[Column 2]

filled by those who first pressed them on
the nation's heart.
	The South in the reorganizing of its po-
litical parties, is simply adopting the tactics
of Northern politicians. Northern carpet-
baggers, so-called, "bull-dozed" the colored
men into voting the republican ticket in
1872, and Southern politicians "bull-dozed"
the same class into voting the democratic
ticket in 1878.
	In neither case have the purity of the
ballot box, nor the sacredness of the elec-
tions, nor the best interests of the colored
voters themselves been protected. It is one
thing to utter high-sounding principles and
quite another to carry them into practice. I
would recommend that the large appropri-
ations made annually to the department of
justice, should hereafter be applied to the
education of our rulers into a knowledge of
what justice is.
	"President Hayes says in his message
that all over our wide territory in the near
future, the name and character of citizen of
the United States shall mean one and the
same thing and carry with them unchal-
lenged security and respect."
	And yet where do we see any preparation
among our rulers for the security and re-
spect of the rights of women even in the
District of Columbia, under the very shad-
ow of the Capitol. Here in 1871, the first
time the District had a republican form of
government, a legislative assembly, 72 wo-
men marched to the city Hall and asked to
register their names as qualified voters.
This experiment of government in the Dis-
trict was made to swell republican power,
by a solid colored vote. Intelligent Ameri-
can women were crowded aside by burly
African men, who could neither read nor 
write. Yet President Grant, who main-
tained the rights of freedmen in Louisiana,
at the point of the bayonet, never gave a
thought to the disfranchised women of the
District. And yet there were 7,000 more
women than men in the District at that
time; industrious, tax-paying, law-abiding
citizens, who neither kept nor haunted the
dram shops nor gambling saloons. A large
part of the taxes paid for the support of
the Police force, criminal and civil courts,
station houses, alms house and jail come out
of the hard earnings of women, and yet if
a little vagrant, harmless, hungry girl steals
a loaf of bread, a doll, or a pocket handker-
chief, the jail filled with hardened crimi-
nals is the only place the District provides
for her reformation, while a reform school
for boys received an appropriation of $100,-
000 and $35,000 a year for its support. And
yet in view of all these outrages on women
and girls, President Hayes in his recent
message gives them no thought, though he
makes a truly paternal review of the interests
of this republic, great and small, from the
army, the navy and our foreign relations,
to the timber on the western mountains,
the switches of the Washington railroad
and the education of the fifty little Indians
in Hampton, Virginia—from the Postal
service, the Paris exposition, the abundant
harvests and the possible bulldozing of
some colored men in the various southern
districts, to cruelty to live animals and the
crowded condition of the mummies and
dead ducks in the Smithsonian Institute,
and yet he forgets to mention 20,000,000
women citizens, robbed of their social, civil
and political rights.
	Hon. James G. Blaine, in his speech in-
dicting the Southern democracy, enlarges
on the injustice of their treatment of col-
ored voters, and makes a strong point on
that section of the 14th amendment, which
says if colored male citizens are not per-

[Column 3]

mitted to vote, neither shall they be count-
ed in the basis of representation. The
Senator considers it the height of injustice
to count citizens in the basis of representa-
tion when not allowed to vote, and thus
compel them to swell the number of their
tyrants. He says:
	"The colored citizen is thus most unhap-
pily situated; his right of suffrage is but a
hollow mockery; it holds to his ear the word
of promise, but breaks it always to his
hope, and he ends only in being made the
unwilling instrument of increasing the po-
litical strength of that party from which he
received ever-tightening fetters when he
was a slave and contemptuous refusal of
civil rights since he was made free. He
resembles, indeed, those unhappy captives,
in the East, who, deprived of their birth-
right, are compelled to yield their strength
to the upbuilding of the monarch from
whose tyrannies they have most to fear,
and to fight against the power from which
alone deliverance might be expected. The
franchise intended for the shield and de-
fense of the negro has been turned against
him and against his friends, and has vastly
increased the power of those from whom
he has nothing to hope and everything to
dread."
	But we need not go to Louisiana or South
Carolina to find such injustice. The women
of Maine, New England, the Western,
Southern and Middle States are all counted
in the basis of representation. Com-
pelled to send hundreds of men to Congress
who care nothing for their rights and inter-
ests, who wholly misrepresent them, and 
yet not one of all these has the right to
vote. The Senator further says: "The war,
with all its costly sacrifices, was fought in 
vain, unless equal rights for all classes
be established in all the States of the
Union." I wonder as he uttered that sen-
timent if the faintest shadow of a woman
fell aslant his brain.
	It is a sad reflection that all these glowing
sentiments of justice, liberty and equality
that have thrilled the hearts of the Ameri-
can people for the last quarter of a century,
should now have no meaning—be but hol-
low mockery, naught but the stock in trade
of clap trap politlcians. We on this plat-
form agree with Mr. Blaine, "that the war
with all its costly sacrifices was fought in
vain, unless equal rights for all classes be
established in all the States of the Union,"
North as well as South. And to this end, I
would recommend the Senator to begin his
work in Maine. There is a large class of 
citizens, intelligent, refined, virtuous,
whose moral power we need to have repre-
sented in the government, not only for the
nation's safety, but for the more complete
development of that class itself in political,
religious, and social ideas. As a question
of civilization, the enfranchisement of wo-
man is of more vital importance than that
of all other classes put together, as her en-
lightened influence would do for politics
and religion what her higher education in
the domestic arts has already done for social
life. There is more buried wealth in the 
minds of the women in Maine than in all
the lumber and fisheries that State can
boast. And yet this large class, represent-
ing so much intelligence, wealth and latent
power, claims no political consideration from
its great Senator.
	In less than sixty days the 45th Congress
will have passed into history. What shall
we find on its pages concerning women?
That to forty thousand citizens of the
United States, filling every department of
art, science and literature, teachers, minis-
ters, lawyers, "the cream of the philan-


thropy and intelligence of the country," as
senators said upon the floor, in presenting
to this Congress the petitions asking for a 
constitutional amendment protecting wo-
men citizens in their right to vote:—that
the Senate Committee on Privileges and
Elections gave three minutes to these peti-
tioners, to the final decision of this vital
question; three minutes! at the close of the
session, and at the close of the day, in the
twilight hour, when even bats and owls
begin to see clearly and to roam forth on
their nightly haunts, and after this three
minutes of consideration, two of which
might have been consumed in the roll call,
and the third in awaiting the arrival of the
tardy chairman, this committee of the
[-]ighest legislative body in the land, voted
down the woman suffrage resolution 6 to 3.
They who voted in favor of the 16th amend-
ment are Senators Hoar, Mass.; Mitchell,
Oregon; Cameron, Wis.; Nays, Wadleigh,
N. H.; McMillan, Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.;
Merrimon, S. C.; Hill, Ga.; Ingalls, Kansas.
	In the other House the Judiciary Com-
mittee were promptly in their seats. Five
members of this committee, Lapham, of
N. Y., Lynde, of Wis., Frye, of Me., But-
ler, Mass., Conger, Mich., eminent Judges,
able Lawyers and honored Statesmen rose
early in the morning, Feb. 5, 1878, to vote
Yes on the constitutional amendment for
women. Five more rose early in the morn-
ing of the same day, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMalion, O.:
Culberson, Texas, to vote No on the rights
of women. The eleventh Hon. gentleman,
Harris, of Virginia, for some reason, did
not rise that eventful morning, and there
our question lies waiting for him to get up
and make his toilet. In both Houses,
therefore, our question is pending. In the
Senate upon the calendar, waiting for some
brave man to call it up and force it before
that body for debate and action. In the
House our question rests on that tie vote.
	The days are rapidly passing, and what
shall be the record on this question of the
statesmen of the 45th Congress. In each
of these Houses are men of sterling integ-
rity, who have served the men of their
States faithfully and well. Yet these men
have deserted them and turned their alle-
giance to new heroes lifted out of obscurity
by the last election. To these men elected
to retirement we appeal. You are writing
many of you the last chapter of your public
career. What page shall the mothers and
daughters of this republic find therein, to
which they can proudly point and say:
"This was for us." As the years roll on
and bring to us victory at last, the men who
have helped to fight our battle will be proud
of their old time loyalty to woman, and
their courage in facing a false and wicked
public sentiment, to so amend their laws
and constitutions as to make all citizens
equal before the law. The air of Washing-
ton is heavy with the wrecked hopes of
disappointed statesmen, of those who led
by personal ambition and party allegiance,
have sacrificed principle to expediency.
They only hold a place in the hearts of the
people, they only are immortal who live not
for themselves alone, but for all humanity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SOIL others is no way to make our-
selves clean.—Tennyson.
	HE that believes without having any
reason for believing may be in love with
his own fancies, but neither seeks truth as
he ought, nor pays the obedience to his
Maker, who would have him use those dis-
cerning faculties he has given him to keep
him out of mistake and crime.—John L[-]oke.


[For the EXPONENT.
		AN OPEN LETTER.

	When duty and pleasure unite we feel
happy, as I do at this moment in offering
the gratitude of my heart to my friends,
whose name is Legion, for their prompt
and unbounded liberality in patronizing my
little pamphlet, "Women of the Scrip-
tures," 2000 copies of which have been
sold, by the unsleeping exertions of my
friends, in about seven months. The print-
ing cost me sixty dollars, which I paid in
a little over two months. A favorite axi-
om of one of our home missionaries is,
"action tells the tale!" and my friends have
demonstrated it to a charm, Mrs. E. B.
Wells heading the list, and "tis written
where every day I turn the leaf to read it."
				HANNAH T. KING.


THE rather startling announcement was
made the other day by the President of the
Women's Protective Association of New
York, that there are in the city over 100,000
women doing work outside of the family
at an average of $2 a week.
	Remember that this $2 covers the ex-
pense of food, clothing, car-fare and amuse-
ments. Is it a matter of surprise that the
feet of so many women are in the path
that leads to death? The question of wa-
ges for woman and virtue in our land, are
synonomous ones.—Ex.


As long as each day comes singly, each
freighted with its own load only, people
can bear a great deal.—Rhode Broughton.

	THE Princess Louise may be seen almost
every afternoon on the reserved bench to
the right of the Speaker, listening attent-
ively to the debates on the new tariff.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each.
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents ea[-]h
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to 
		MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
					Salt Lake Ciiy.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 7.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1879.	No. 23.﻿


[For the EXPONENT.
		AFTER LONG YEARS.

Impromptu lines sugges[-]ed on unexpectedly meeting a friend
			after a lapse of twenty two years.

After long years over time’s shifting sands
	Of strivings, of conflicts, and care,
When leaving behind us youth’s sunny lands,
	That once looked so golden and fair,
And th’ bright stream of life merges into the tide
	That is nearing eternity’s sea,
Whose waters no longer sparkling glide
	Through vales where it sported with glee.

Like a rift in a cloud-darkened sky,
	Gleaming down on chill winter’s snow,
Is the clasp of a hand, or glance of an eye,
	From dear ones of long, long ago.
Old years roll back like the vesture of day,
	We’re carried on swift wings of thought;
Bright scenes, fair faces, long hidden away,
	Well up from the depths of the heart,

Invisible powers sweep over the soul,
	Like	glory that heralds the dawn,
Bearing glad visions of beauty untold,
	From out the long years that are gone;
Households deserted are peopled again,
	We mingle with them as of yore;
Sweet voices blending in thrilling refrain
	Come back from the “Evergreen Shore.”

Welcome the power that after long years
	Cements broken links in time’s chain;
Helps us to see, through the rainbow of tears,
	Restored to the ranks of the slain,
Heroes who battled for freedom and truth,
	Daring dangers, righting foul wrong,
Now all clothed anew, in eternal youth,
	Shout anthems of Freedom’s glad song.

Magical choir, reaching down through the years,
	And up through the heavens above,
Like a wind-driven wave rounding the spheres,
	Key-note of our Father’s great love.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 16, 1879.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		A LESSON TO MOTHERS.

	To those who are permitted to live the
allotted time of man upon the earth, to live
to a good old age, life seems but a passing
dream; in speaking of their childhood they
often say, "It seems but yesterday." Very
little can be accomplished by those who 
make the best use they can of their time.
Scenes change so quickly, duties and cares
crowd upon us, so much to do and to think
of, that to a reflecting mind there is no
time for superfluities. If we would make
our record one of usefulness and honor here,
and of glory and exaltation hereafter, we
must make every hour count, we must not waste our time upon things wherein there
is no profit. We shonld strive to store up
knowledge and to lay up such treasures as
will not fade.
	Some will spend their time, means and 
principal thoughts in cooking, cleaning and 
adorning their houses and persons, to the 
neglect of their own minds and the minds
of their children. If you ask these persons
about any of the current items of the day,
they do not understand you. I admit that
it is right and proper, nay, more, it is our 
duty to make our homes pleasant and at-
tractive; every Latter-day Saint will do 
that, every mother will aim to make her
home the best place on earth to her loved
ones; It is her duty also to provide suitable
clothing for them, and to arrange it in the

[Column 2]
best, most comfortable and tasteful way
with the means she has at her command,
but she has no right, it is not her duty to 
waste her precious time, or wear out her
body in putting on so much useless, yea,
worse than useless trimming, causing so
much labor and wasting so much time in
washing and ironing. Many a young
mother has been permanently injured by
this folly at the sewing machine. I think
it is wrong, it is not pleasing in the sight
of the Lord; far better would it be for us
who profess to be above the follies of the 
world to spend our time in trying to adorn
and cultivate our minds and the minds of
those who are given to us of the Lord.
	There is enough of sorrow and suffering
for all to bear who live out their days on
this earth, and mothers should try to fortify
the minds of their children wtth good and
true principles, and unwavering faith in
God under all circumstances. This will
make them brave and strong, this will con-
stitute men and women of character; we
do not want "paper men." We should
teach our children correct ideas of life, and
with patience and gentleness teach them to 
labor and to endure some of the fatigues
and cares of older life. Do not, dear sister,
give your beloved and carefully nurtured
daughter to some one for a wife and mother
who, though she may be educated and ac-
complished in branches taught in school,
yet knows nothing of the more important
duties of life, or the responsibility she has
assumed. There is sorrow and vexation in 
store for her, poor girl; the education of
her hands has been neglected. This will
apply to boys too. No father should send
his son out to fight the battle of life with-
out giving him a knowledge of getting a 
living, which cannot slip away from him;
no matter how much property he may have,
teach him to labor.
	We should try to arrange all that we do
so as to accomplish the most and best good.
If we can give our children good school
education, that is good, but let not this ex-
clude other practical and useful knowledge.
If we can afford to have good comfortable
houses and costly apparel without getting
into debt, that is good too, yet let not that
suffice; better to have a soul adorned with
love, meekness, patience, honesty, truth
and thankfulness, than all the glory and 
riches of the whole world, for these will
fade, but the beauty and riches of the soul
will reach beyond the grave.
	We should try to cultivate in the minds
of our children a love for the beautiful in 
nature, in the grand old mountains around
our homes, a love for music and good read-
ing, and for everything that is noble and
true and that will refine and exalt their 
ideas. It needs not wealth to attain these
things; there can be refinement and peace
in the humblest cottage. I once knew a 
family who lived in a dirt-roofed log cabin,
so brown and bare outside that no spear of
grass, or even a weed grew around it, only
a green field not far away could be seen, to 
save the mark and relieve the eye. Inside
some of our best papers and books could be
seen, a few choice flowers stood in the win-
dow, every little arrangement in the house,
though of the simplest kind, betokened

[Column 3]
neatness and taste; the boys would bring
out their little instruments of music in the 
evening, and there was "love at home."
There was a spirit of improvement. I have
watched the boys from that home; they 
are now making a mark in this kingdom,
putting their shoulders to the wheel and 
trying and expecting to do their part in the 
redemption of Zion. When father and 
mother co-operate together to make home
pleasant, and reach after improvement, it
is not hard for children to follow.
							ANNIE N.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN'S RIGHTS IN JAPAN.—A wo-
man's rights d[-]monstration has been made
by a lady in the Southern Province, who 
protests against paying taxes unless she is
allowed the privilege of voting. Her let-
ter which is pertinent and logical even in 
Japanese estimation, has been referred by
local authorities to the central government
and awaits decision at the capital.—EX.
	ON the outside of the April number of 
the "Womah's Suffrage Journal" published
in Manchester, Miss Lydia E. Becker,
editor, is an earnest entreaty to the women
of England.
	VOTE! vote! vote!—Women Ratepayers
are reminded that Elections of poor-Law
Guardians, Members of Local Boards,
Church wardens, Overseers, Auditors and 
other Officials take place during April.
Vestry meetings for the Elections of 
Church wardens usually take place on the 
Tuesday in Easter week. Women Rate-
payers have the right to attend and vote in 
all local elections, and they are earnestly
exhorted to use the suffrage, which the 
law confers upon them. Elections for 
Guardians and Members of Local Boards
are conducted by means of voting papers,
which are left at the houses of the Rate-
payers, and are called for before the election.
Women ratepayers should see that their
papers are duly filled up and signed ready
to be given up when called for, and in case
of failure to collect the papers they should 
themselves forward them to the proper
officer, who is bound to notify by public ad-
vertisement the time and place when he
will receive papers which have not been 
called for.
	It is of the utmost consequence that wo-
men should exercise their votes on every
lawful occasson.
	Dorcas, drawing-room, and other meetings
have been held in various parts of England
to awaken an interest and prepare Parlia-
mentary petitions for the member Hon. Mr.
Courtney in support of his resolution. The
question was submitted to the House in
March under new conditions, and in a 
slightly altered form. This question was a 
resolution offering the principle once laid
down by Lord Beaconsfield that it is anoma-
lous that the Parliamentary franchise at-
tached to a household or property qualifica-
tion when possessed by a woman should
not be exercised, though in all local elec-
tions, when similarly qualified she exerci-
ses this right; and that this anomaly is in[-]
jurious to the best interests of the country.


232		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

		HEBER CITY, WASATCH Co.,
						Feb. 10, 1879.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	We rejoice that you with Sister Williams
have been back East as our Delegate to
plead our cause, knowing the intense inter-
est you feel in the great work we are en-
gaged in. We take pleasure in represent-
ing the Relief Society of Heber City. Our
President meets with us once a month, giv-
ing us instructions and showing us our du
ties as members. She has had a bin for
storing wheat put in the Relief Society
Hall. The teachers visit once a month,
and there are a number of sisters who
attend meetings faithfully and are very en-
ergetic; more have recently come forward
to have their names enrolled, and a good
spirit prevails in our meetings.
	Relief Society Quarterly Report from
Nov. 2, 1878, to Feb. 1, 1879.

Teachers..........................................23
Members.........................................30
Donations received...................$8 28
Disbursed to the needy............  3 25

		Yours very respectfully,
			MARGARET MUIR, President,
			ELLEN LEE, Secretary.

	CHESTER, SANPETE Co., FEB. 7, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The sisters of Chester Ward were organ-
ized into a Relief Society by our Bishop
and counselors. We held our first meeting
Jan. 29, 1878; number of names enrolled
thirteen. We feel very small, but we know
that God sometimes takes small means to
accomplish great things. I will not say
that Chester is a small place, on the contrary
it is a very large one with but few people
in it. We are considerably scattered, our
husbands being farmers, yet notwithstand-
ing the disadvantages under which we are
laboring at present, we are striving to assist
in the great work of the latter days. We
are taking the EXPONENT in the Society,
and as we have not yet become eloquent
speakers ourselves, we give much of the
time in our meetings to hearing valuable
lessons from its pages. We send you the
report of our first year, ending Jan. 29,
1879.
Total amount of cash and sundries raised
	by donations..............................$22 28
Disbursements in cash:
Manti Temple.....................................    3 00
EXPONENT..........................................    2 00
Stationery...........................................     1 92
Emigration Fund................................        25
								———
	Total						   7 17
Balance cash, etc., on hand.............   15 11
Wheat stored, 24 ¼ bu.

	Yours sisters &c.,
				S. E. COWLES, Pres't,
				E. E. ALLRED, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Report of Beaver Relief Society from
Aug. 31, 1878, to Feb. 28, 1879:
Amount in Treasury Aug 31..............$105 30
Receipts to Feb.28,.............................  214 28
								————
	Total						 319 52
Amount disbursed during 6 months 286 87
In Treasury..........................................    32 65
Wheat stored, 193 ½ bu.
Members enrolled, 116.
	The Society is in a thriving condition;
meeting are well attended, and a lively

[Column 2]
interest is manifested in all that pertains to
the great latter-day work.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT and the welfare of Zion, we
remain your sisters in the covenant,

	RUTH W. TYLER, President,
	ELIZA W. HAWKINS,	} Counselors.
	ANN LEVIE,			}
	MARY E. ASHWORTH, Secretary.

			PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co.,
						April 1, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Report of Y. L. M. I. A. of Paris, 1st
Ward. Our Association, formerly compris-
ing most of the young ladies of the place,
has been re-organized, and two associations
formed, one in each ward. The Association
of the 1st Ward has been re-organized now
about four months. We are progressing
finely; have started a little paper, called
"The Young Ladies' Advocate," Miss Cad-
die Rich, editor, Mrs. Ella Rich, assistant
editor, and Mrs. Mary A. Horne, local re-
porter. It is written monthly, and the
girls contribute freely. We also have a 
Temple fund started, donating five cents, or 
more. We have made a quilt worth six
dollars, and intend to give the means to 
the Temple. We hold conjoint meetings
once a month, in which a lively interest is
taken. Our President, Mrs. Alice M. Rich,
with her counselors, Miss Caddie Rich and
Mrs. Mary A. Horne, are enterprising and 
alive to their duties, and all seem to realize
what a great work they are engaged in, and 
how diligently they can perform their part.
	Our spring here is earlier than usual: the
weather is pleasant, and the farmers are
very busy putting in their crops, looking
forward to another bountiful harvest.
	Trusting that we as an Association will
ever be found in the path of duty, and that
our Heavenly Father will continually bless
us and the remainder of our sisters with a
spirit of self-improvement, is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel,
			ELLA A. RICH, Secretary.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE, March 28, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The First Ward of Paris Relief Society
was organized Feb. 19, 1878, when the fol-
lowing officers were elected.

	Maria Rich, President.
	Elizabeth Collins,	} Counselors.
	Eliza Rich,		}

	Alice M. Rich, Secretary.
	Caddie Rich, Assistant Secretary.
	Nora Spencer, Treasurer.

	There are fifty-two officers and members
enrolled. We hold our meetings the first
Thursday in each month; average attend-
ance, twenty-five.

ANNUAL REPORT.

Amount of property.......................$80 50
Donated...........................................  37 34
For Logan Temple...........................  36 62
Work done by members................. 18 50
Cash on hand...................................   8 00
Dividend received on Co-op stock.   2 00

Disbursements:
To Logan Temple............................  47 34
Linen, calico, etc.............................     9 55
WOMAN'S EXPONENT...................     1 00
Amount on hand........................... 125 07
Wheat on hand, 79 bu.

	We are pleased to state that we have had
a very pleasant winter, there being scarcely

[Column 3]
any sickness, and we have none among us
but who are able to support themselves, as
you will see by the above report. Every
member of the Society seems ready and
willing to do all the work they can in this
great work in which we are engaged. Also
wish to state that Mrs. A. M. Rich having
resigned her office as Secretary some time
ago, Caddie Rich was elected in her stead,
and Miss Phebe Rich assistant. The EX-
PONENT is ever a welcome guest in our
midst, and we fully realize the benefits de-
rived from the perusal of its pages.
		Very respectfully,

				MARIA RICH, President.
				CADDIE RICH, Secretary.

	EAST MILL CREEK, April 11, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of East Mill Creek
Ward was organized March 30, 1879, by
President Mary A. Freeze and her counsel-
or, Sister Clara Young Conrad. The officers
elected were:

	Sarah A. Skidmore, President.

	Eudora V. Ranck,		} Counselors.
	Barbara M. Moses,	}

	Harriet S. Stillman, Secretary.
	Delia B. Neff, Assistant Secretary.
	Lydia Osguthorpe. Treasurer,
	Ann E. Neff, Superintendent.

	There are forty-four names enrolled in
this Association. Meetings are held once
in two weeks on Sunday evening, at seven
o'clock, with a general attendance.
	Respectfully,

			HARRIET S. STILLMAN.


[For the EXPONENT.
	THE BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

	We look around us, and on every hand
we behold the beauties of Nature. How
exceedingly refreshing everything looks.
The trees, flowers, shrubs and plants, each
arrayed in its own peculiar coloring, make
up a variety pleasing to the eye. How
wonderful! each specie of plant is distinct,
ever producing the same kind. The fruit
that grows, how beautiful to the eye and
pleasing and delicious to the taste. The
perfume of the lovely flowers enhance
their charms, and with the singing of the
birds tells us that "Spring is here," the
happiest time of all the year; perhaps this
is partly owing to the contrast with the
leafless months that we have just passed
through. When spring comes arrayed in 
beauty we love her cheering influence; not
only human beings, but every living crea-
ture rejoices in the warmth of the sun's
bright rays. Man cannot make anything to
compare with the handiwork of Nature, for
the One who created the world created
man, and our knowledge is still finite, and
it is He, our Father in Heaven, we should
ever thank for every good thing we enjoy—
for the beauties of Nature, and for sight to 
see the loveliness thereof, and hearing, to
hear the music of Nature's voices.
						EVADNE.
	St. George.


BAYARD Taylor's body lay at Cedarcroft,
Pa. until 11 o'clock, Saturday morning, and
was then followed to Longwood cemetery
by great numbers of prominent persons
from all parts of the country. The cere-
monies attending the interment were im-
pressive and imposing.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			TRUTH.

There is beauty and grace in many a fa[-]e
	’Neath a bonnet tattered and torn;
There is fragrant perfume in the wild rose bloom,
	On the summer breezes borne

And thoughts, not a few, that are noble and tru[-]
	In many a bosom untaught;
And hearts there are some by sorrow bowed down
	That are studded with gems of thought.

No darkness can dim the glistening gem
	That is culled from the depths of the sea;
And thus doth truth shine with a radiance divine;
	Though hid in the depths it may be.
April 12, 1879.                        ANONYMOUS.


[For the EXPONENT.
		FACES IN THE FIRE.

	Memory's tide is backward pressing,
		As I sit before the fire,
	In an easy chair reclining;
		And the glowing flames rise higher.

	And within the rosy furnace
		Faces come and faces go—
	Friends, companions of my childhood,
		Of the long, long time ago.

	As they quickly come and vanish,
		I remember all full well—
	There is little toddling Alice,
		And our little rosy Nell.

	Both are now above in heaven,
		But their faces in the fire
	Seem to beckon my soul onward
		To a something, nobler, higher.

	Where all mortals who were faithful
		In their earthly mission here,
	Dwell in love and light eternal,
		And no pain or sorrow fear.

	Yes, my babes, for your sweet sakes
		I will bear my cross along,
	And will meet you in "the morning,"
		With a pure and happy song.

Salt Lake City.					ELINOR ELMWOOD.


[For the EXPONENT.
			WHAT I SAW.

	As I was walking the streets one day I 
saw a sight, a striking sight! It was a poor
old man stooped and gray. But oh! what a 
pitiable looking object! He was so intoxi-
cated that as he walked along the sidewalk
he swerved from side to side, and it was all
he could do to keep his balance. I expect
if his history was known, he is a father and
a grandfather, and most likely was a man
of influence.
	Oh! what an example to set before the 
rising generation! This sight I shall never
forget! As he seemed to be getting worse,
there came a buoyant youth, just from his
day's work, tripping along. He at first past
the man to be pitied, then turned suddenly
around, and went back to where the man
was tottering ready to fall. He kindly of-
fered him his arm, but the old man was too
far overcome to know what the kind heart-
ed boy wanted of him, so the boy took the
aged hand and put it on his arm, and after
a good deal of persuasion he got him to 
trudge along with him, most likely to his
home, yes a most wretched place, with a 
broken-hearted wife and hungry children.
I shall never forget this kind act of that
noble young man. How proud a mother
ought to be when her sons try to be kind
to the aged. But oh! strange, yes passing
strange, that God's creatures here below,
cannot learn from such lessons to shun the 
poison that causes many a poor mother's 
heart to throb with sorrow, and which
hastens loving wives to an untimely grave.
Their hearts were full of pain with the
thoughts of one that they had loved, and


pictured a happy life with, through time,
and all eternity, to go down to a drunkard's
grave, and their children to be taunted
with his disgraceful name. His name
might have been remembered for good, if
he had taken the right course. His happy
household has beer scattered and broken.
Disgrace has come where once was peace,
joy, love, and comfort. Where is his hap-
py innocence?
	The youth takes a glass, and then follows
one glass after another, not once thinking
what the result will be until he ruins him-
self body and soul, his home and all that
makes life pleasant and agreeable.
	Boys, you know not what dangerous
ground you are treading on. If I had a 
voice like the thunder and as keen as the
lightning to pierce every heart to the core
I would say, "touch not, taste not," for how
can men expect to enjoy the spirit of God,
and have his blessings to guide and direct
them, if they give themselves up to such a 
debasing habit. Why cannot the boys take
warning before it is too late?
	Not one of the young ladies should
choose a husband that had contracted any
such habit, or that would be likely to dis-
grace his name in such a degrading way.
					JULIA SPENCER.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT
				BABIES.

	In reading the daily newspapers and pe-
rusing the annals of crime, we find that in-
fanticide, with its kindred evils, is increas-
ing to an alarming extent both in the Old
and New World, and until the causes which
produce these terrible results are removed,
I fear there is little hope for a better state
of things. O virtue! chastity! thou crown-
ing beauty and glory of woman, why have
so many of earth's fair daughters suffered
themselves to be robbed of thee? Deeply
is the loss to be deplored. What is life
without virtue and honor? When the first
step is taken, who can tell where it will
stop? leading on from bad to worse, until
the victim is left to commit the most hein-
ous and revolting crimes, and the once
happy and confiding young girl becomes
guilty of that which is too dreadful to name
—the shedding of innocent blood. Oh!
horror of horrors! Only to think that a 
woman could ever become so degraded, so
lost to every feeling of a mother, as to take
the life of the innocent, helpless creature
whom she herself has brought into the
world, and whose very helplessness should
insure it against injury, even in its mildest
form. This is too revolting to think of, and
yet, who shall condemn? Who among the 
multitude (so clamorous and indignant)
shall cast the first stone? "He who is with-
out sin," the Savior said. This is indeed
just, for who is there that is capable of sit-
ting in judgment on those who have been
cruelly betrayed and abandoned, when they
know not the impassioned emotions of the
trusting heart, nor the circumstances which
have driven the victim to desperation.
	Besides these extreme cases of violence,
there are others of wilful neglect. We
read of infants and young children being
left alone in a house, while parents are out
visiting, who on their return found the
house in ashes and the children perished.
And coming nearer home, even to our own
little city of St. George, we find one or two
cases where mothers are scarcely worthy of
that sweet and holy name. But then we
should forbear to censure too severely, as
theory is much easier than practice, and we

[Column 2]
all know better; though I maintain that a
woman's first duty is to watch over those
helpless little treasures whom God has en-
trusted to her care. Children are indeed a
comfort and a blessing. What can exceed
the joy of the honorable wife when she
takes her new-born babe in her arms? Her
whole heart goes out to the little creature,
and she feels amply repaid for all her suf-
fering; how interestedly she watches every
movement, through the different stages of 
its infancy; how eagerly she listens for the
first word from its lips, and watches for its
first timid step, and until they increase to
the almost incessant prattle of the tongue
and the busy patter of the little feet. Is
there anything sweeter, dearer, more inter-
esting or lovable than a sweet, clean, inno-
cent babe? Methinks the heart of every
true mother will answer, Nothing. Is there
anything that can replace or for which we
would exchange them? No! emphatically
NO! Of course there are exceptions to this
as to all general rules; there are some
whom trifling circumstances will cause to
yield up their offspring to the care of stran-
gers, though, thank the Lord, in our com-
munity these cases are few and far between.
Then let us try to raise our little ones so
that they will be a credit to us and the
kingdom of God when they arrive at ma-
turity. Thus our greatest earthly blessings
will certainly prove to be our babies, the 
proverbial aversion of bachelors and old
maids, and their unchangeable opinions to
the contrary notwithstanding.

	St. George.					KATE.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	The evening of Wednesday April 9, 1879.
was one of interest to those who were in-
vited to celebrate the anniversary of Mrs.
M. A. Smoot's birthday. The lady was
seventy years of age, but is a hale, hearty,
fine-looking woman yet. The young girls
of the family took the greatest pleasure in
surprising "Ma" and the guests participat-
ed in the general enjoyment. A large din-
ner was given in the afternoon, and num-
erous presents betokened the love and
affection bestowed on Sister Smoot. The
evening was passed in singing, reading and
conversation.  The B. Y. Academy Choir
rendered one or two hymns in a spirited
way.
	These occasions would make the eyes of
a stranger to our customs open with aston-
ishment, and his heart warm to that pure
sentiment felt and exhibited in our polyga-
mous families. Ma Smoot is a noble good
woman and worthy of all her family's trib-
utes. May Heaven lengthen out her life.
						SUSA.


THE towns of Berkshire and Georgia in
Franklin County, Vermont, have elected
women to the office of town clerk. Miss
Leavens of Berkshire is a daughter of the
former town clerk, and, having assisted
her father a great deal in the office, she is
entirely competent to discharge its duties.
Mrs. Post of Georgia is the widow of the 
late town clerk and is well qualified to fill
the office. She was also chosen treasurer.
The Randolph town-meeting was v[-]sited by
quite a number of young ladies in attend-
ance upon the State Normal school there,
and they seemed much interested in the
proceedings. No sooner was their pres-
ence observed then the men took off their
hats, removed their pipes and maintained
the best of order. Thus the sure growth is
made.—Ex.


234		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1879.


[Column 1]
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN.

	"He that would live clear of envy must lay
his finger on his mouth, and keep his hand out
of the ink-pot."—LE ESTRANGE.

	This was applied to men in that day, but it
will certainly apply to women equally as well.
This is woman's era, and of course she will be
criticized, censured, sneered at, even by her
own sex. After all it is expected--women pos-
sessing more humility than men, more delicacy
of nature and true refinement of soul, more
spirituality in fact, will scarcely stoop to perse-
cution. Yet even this we find to be the case;
cruel as the grave. Pope said,

		"The world with calumny abounds,
		The whitest virtue slander wounds."

	It is well that persons of greatness of soul
possess the peculiar faculty, or tact, to judge of
those with whom they come in contact, other-
wise they might be prejudiced against the in-
nocent and good by evil-designing people.
	It seems to have been peculiarly the fate of
Mormons to be slandered, but until recently it
was confined to men mostly, Mormon women
being considered too low, degraded and igno-
rant, otherwise they certainly would not live
in plural marriage.
	Now a change has come. The franchise has
been given to Mormon women, they have been
heard from, and as they will not give up the
principles of their religion, which they know 
to be elevating and pure, they must needs be
scandalized. And because a few noble-souled
ladies who are working for universal good, as
we understand it, have dared to allow Mormon
women to come into their councils, and sit on
a public platform with them, a great many ex-
planations must be made for them, lest the
National Woman Suffrage Association should
be understood as endorsing Polygamy.
	After the women of Utah have held the
ballot ten years, and with the best possible re-
sults, they are to have no representation. "Tell
it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of
Askelon," that Mormon women vote, or have
any education, or culture. Oh, no, don't
come near a Mormon woman, she's a plural
wife, or at any rate believes in it, and "Polyga-
my degrades womanhood." "Where Polyga-
my exists all women are essentially degraded."
Well, we are very sorry for these "wise wo-
men of Gotham," who are at sea in a bowl
without any ballast—who as[-]ert that Polyga-
my is not better than prostitution, but infin-
itely worse in its effects upon society, how-
ever it may be in individual cases. They
pity Mormon women fanatics just as they do
the Hindoo women. Well, there's every reason
to pity them, for in their midst all sorts of
abominations abound, and they have no reme-
dy. The cries of the women who have been
cruelly and wantonly betrayed and abandoned,

[Column 2]
with the blood of their murdered offspring,
has pierced the throne of the Eternal, and ere
long He will avenge their wrongs.
	We affirm just as strongly as our opponent
that instead of degrading, plural marriage ele-
vates woman; we and hundreds of others have
proven it by practical experience. Mother-
hood exalts woman; it is her crowning glory;
and in no other marriage covenant is there
such perfect freedom for woman to pursue any
pursuit or avocation she may choose, as where
there are more wives. To be sure, if she de-
pends entirely upon her husband to direct her
every thought and action, she would be un-
happy, but it gives women the highest oppor-
tunities for self-development, exercise of judg-
ment, and arouses latent faculties, making
them more truly cultivated in the actual reali-
ties of life, more independent in thought and 
mind, noble and unselfish. The women of
Utah have the ballot still, and intend to make
good use of it, and educate the rising gen-
eration and those who come from foreign
lands every year to a higher and nobler stand-
ard of thought, feeling and action than to per-
secute any people because of their religious
faith. In Zion will the standard of welcome
be unfurled to all nations, and women as well
as men will help to raise this standard, for the
work is one of mutual benefit to both, and 
many honest and true souls will come gladly;
and the Saints can afford to wait until the 
Lord's time to redeem Zion, working and watch-
ing the while, to do good to all, and "especially
those of the household of faith." [handwritten] E. B. Well


HOME AFFAIRS.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt will open a class in
Obstetrics and the training of nurses, on Mon-
day, 5th inst., to continue Mondays and Thurs-
days for six months, at her office in the Old
Constitution Buildings.
	DURING THE last month Pres. E. R. Snow
has organized Primary Associations in the 1st,
2d, 12th, 13th and 20th wards of this city. Also
re-organized the Young Ladies' M. I. A. of the
2d Ward. 
	AT THE Territorial Fair which will be held
October next, it is expected there will be
great many prizes distributed to those who pro-
duce the best articles of home manufacture.
Ladies, if you wish to work for this, do your
best in useful, ornamental, or elegant work;
with all kinds of materials used in such articles.

	AT THE General Meeting of the sisters in
the Fourteenth Ward, Saturday, April 26, the
officers of the Silk Association of Salt Lake
Co. were sustained in their positions, and Bro.
Paul A. Schettler was elected as a committee
to judge of the quality of cocoons. The officers
of Relief Society agreed to act as committees
to see that all the mulberry leaves in their vi-
cinity were utilized to the best advantage.
	THE THEATRE has been rendered attractive
of late by the H. M. S. Pinafore, which has
been performed several times, the performance
being entir[-]ly composed of home talent, di-
rected by Prof. Careless. He certainly deserves
all the e[-]comiums he has received. Mrs.
Sigel, Miss White, Miss Olsen, Miss Sanders,
and several of the gentlemen also played and 
sang remarkable well Although the opera
was well performed in every part, so every-
body says; "and what everybody says must be
true.
	"A MESSENGER from Jarvis Section" was
quite sensational, but very funny. "Uncle
Daniel" was really a true Yankee in style and
in tone, and little "Clip" acted her part per-
fectly.


WE HAD the honor of attending a pleasant
entertainment on Thursday last, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Mary Emma Van Schooven.
The hostess had prepared a delicious repast for
her guests, the occasion being the close of the
term of a class in Obstetrics taught by Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, a young and rising physician,
a favorite with her students it would seem,
who all united in presenting her with an ele-
gant pencil and cuff-pins of gold and jet. Dr.
Pratt, though taken by surprise, replied grace-
fully, expressing her good feelings for all the
class, and her ardent desire to aid them and to
honor the profession in which she had enlisted
	IN COMPANY with Pres. E. R. Snow we at-
tended the Annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Co., in Farmington, April 17.
The reports from branch societies were very
satisfactory, and everything was conducted in
an orderly manner, Mrs. S. I. Holmes presid-
ing. Elder Anson Call was present and made
some remarks so favorable to the woman ques-
tion that we shall take pains to publish them
with a full account of the meeting. The Presi-
dents of societies made excellent verbal reports.
Pres. E. R. Snow assisted Coun. Call and the
presidency of Relief Society in organizing a
branch Silk Association in Davis Co., Mrs. Do-
rinda Robinson, President; Nancy A. Clark
and Jane Smith, Counselors. A large majority
of the sisters enrolled their names as active
workers.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE SHALL be compelled to confine our col-
umns in future exclusively to Stake reports of
R. S and Y. L. M. I. A., except where the R.
S. Stakes have not been organized. These will
report as before.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from Samaria, Ma-
lad, Franklin, Hebron, Minersville, Kingston,
Lewiston and Ephraim; Primary Association
reports from Santaquin, 16th Ward S. L. City.
Letters from Santa Clara, St. George, Goshen
and other places, which we intend publishing.

	MASS MEETINGS have been held by the sis-
ters in nearly all the settlements great and
small in Utah Territory, to protest against the
Adti-Polygamy petitions, letters to Mrs.
Hayes, &c., and to defend one of the vital
principles of the Gospel, viz., Celestial Mar-
riage. It is impossible to publish them all. It
is specially gratifying to know that there is a
united feeling on this subject throughout the
entire Church. At Hyrum, Woodruff, Clark-
ston, Wallsburg, Midway, Tooele, these meet-
ings have all been spirited and interesting, and
the sisters in their respective localities have
either adopted the resolutions passed in Salt
Lake City or have drawn up resolutions corres-
ponding in every respect with the spirit and
sentiment therein expressed.

	WE PUBLISH in this issue an item on the
celebration of Mrs. M. A. Smoot's Surprise
Party on her birthday, and we would not wish
our dear friends, sisters and patrons to think
we were unmindful of any good sister's "Birth-
day Party," so will inform them we have in
our desk many such tributes, which we would
gladly publish,—Mrs. Louisa B Pratt's of
Beaver, Mrs. Sarah M. Peterson's of Ephraim,
Mrs. Martha J. Thomas' of Lehi. We will
mention in connection with this fact, we did
not give our readers any account of the party
held at our own house in honor of Sister E. A.
Whitney, well known to nearly all the Saints
from the days of Kirtland, nor to that of Mrs.
Zina D. Young, held at the residence of Mrs.
B. W. Smith, nor of Mrs. M. I. Horne, Presi-


dent of R. S. S. L. Stake of Zion, nor of Pres.
Rachel R. Grant or Elizabeth H. Goddard, and
many other good sisters, simply because it is
utterly impossible to mention all these things
unless we had a daily paper.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		235


A HUMBLE TRIBUTE,

TO THE MEMORY OF MRS. MARINDIA J.
CARLETON.

	Mrs. Marindia J. Carleton, wife of Mr. Geo.
H. Carleton, cashier of the Georgetown Na-
tional Bank, departed this life March 15, 1879,
at her residence in Georgetown, Mass. The
deceased was the beloved niece of Sister Vienna
Jacques of this city, and Mrs. Boynton of
Bountiful is the sister of Mrs. Carleton. Hav-
ing made her acquaintance, with that of her
worthy husband, on my recent mission to my
native State, Mass., and becoming conversant
with her blameless and holy life, I could not
do justice to my feelings did I not testify in
some public manner to her worth as a consis-
tent and devoted Latter-day Saint. Truly, in
her daily deportment as a wife, daughter, sis-
ter and frien[-], all the virtues and beatitudes
were exemp[--]led and shone pre-eminently.
	Moving in a circle of society that was inimi-
cal to her religious principles, she never faltered
or hesitated to declare her professed faith in
the restoration of the Gospel, when it was ex-
pedient and wise so to do. Nor in words only
did she manifest a vital interest in the great
latter-day work, but in her generosity freely
contributed to the varied interests of the king-
dom of God. To the Temple fund alone she
donated ten dollars monthly, preferring to lay
up treasures in heaven, rather than to expend
the means in undue personal adornment. The
Elders who were laboring in that portion of
the Lord's vineyard always received a hearty
welcome, and never departed without receiv-
ing something substantial to help them in
their mission. She ardently desired to gather
to Zion, and in her last letter to her Aunt Vi-
enna, dated Feb. 22, she expressed herself as
being strongly impressed of the nearness of the
great calamities that await the nation, and
hoped that she would be gathered out of Baby-
lon before the time came that "He that would
not take up his sword to fight against his
neighbor must needs fly to Zion for safety."
Truly has the Lord garnered the pure spirit of
Sister "Rinnie" as a choice jewel to the Zion
above, to mingle with the Saints of all ages
and there enjoy sweet rest until the time shall
arrive when Zion below shall be perfected and
prepared for the coming of the Lord.
	To the bereaved and loving husband, all who
have had the honor of his acquaintance will
sincerely condole in the great loss he has sus-
tained; and may he be soothed by the cher-
ished memory of the many virtues and beauti-
ful life of his deceased companion, and may
the recollection of his untiring devotedness for
her happiness be as a healing balm to assuage
the poignant grief of the present, and endeavor
to look forward to a happy reunion in the fu-
ture, in that peaceful realm where sorrow and
parting shall be known no more, is the sincere
desire of his well-wisher,
						GEORGE HAMLIN.
	Salt Lake City, April 13, 1879
	We have read the tribute dedicated to Mrs
Carleton in the "G[-]orgetown Advocate," and
will here quote one paragraph, attributed to
"a lady who had known her from childhood."
	"She was the b[-]st woman I ever knew. Gen-
tle, quiet, charitable, conscientious, generous
and kind. I would not exchange a single trait
in her character if I could." What a glorious
epitaph!


<let my="" saints="" appeal="" to="" thd="" highest="" court="" in-the="" land-="" ahd="" if="" they="" will="" not="" do="" them="" justice,="" then="" let="" to-="" their="" father="" in="" heaven,-="" and="" he="" hear="" come="" out="" with="" judg-="" ments="" upon="" those="" unworthy="" servants="" ‘whq.="" have="" the="" snt8="" inose="" unwortuy="" butvuuw="" "“.v,="" vethe'power="" saints'justice,="" tbbv="" ll="" not.="" tliey="" fluff="" w'he’nihod="" ldtd1="" i="" -ji="" .........-i.ij="" iy.—jilv.7v.-="" what="" it="" jar="" td="" measure="" armsvitlii="" tbeitriil="" god’of="" beaven.="" "we="" knwt’his="" principle="" is="" of="" god,="" we="" knew="" are="" firm="" cause="" troth,="" princi="" pies="" wo="" espoused.="" right,="" can="" no="" doubt="" p.3="" to,="" jesuit.="" may="" future,(as,="" done="" past)="" .="" pass="" through="" trials="" pereecutlpn3,="" try="" tis-,="" and;="" prove="" our="" faith.="" our:="" religion="" worth,="" vfilling="" tqdive="" for="" die.for="" itj-too,="" peed="" be.="" us.="" live="" up.="" the.="" plural="" piar-="" riage,="" teach,="" ,o‘ur="" ’="" daughters'="" as="" ipuro="" holy,="" revealed="" by!="" almighty,="" o'per-="" patuate="" tf="" noblpracofpeopleupoii-the'="" earth,="" that="" noble="" intelligent="" spirits,="" ‘have="" been="" hold="" reserve,="" eternal="" worlds="" forth="" thesq-last="" days="" take="" part="" great="" latter-day="" work,="" and.="" prepare="" a="" people="" coming="" ©f="" savior.="" glorious="" privilege="" receive="" parentage="" among="" saints,="" responsibility="" resting;="" on="" parents="" to.="" bring="" this="" rce.="" up,.iri="" principles="" rigfiteousnesahd="" truth="" bet="" an="" example="" worthy="" imitation'="" hotymahy="" us="" there="" thatrealfze="" light="" should.="" each="" one="" answer="" themselvesl="" lord="" heaven="" bless="" you="" health="" srengb,="" fco="" enable="" carry="" work="" so="" worthily="" engaged="" in,="" your="" valuable="" paper="" continue="" be,="" ever="" has.="" been,="" true="" exponent="" ;="" rthe="" feelings="" views="" women="" utah..="" remain="" over,="" yoar="" sister="" the'gospel.="" sarah="" mi:="" pomeroy.'="" mesa="" city,="" arizona,'="" feb;="" j41879.="" rt'-i---="" :="" 7="" ln="" parowan,="" feb.="" 12,="" 1879.="" editor="" exponent:="" feel="" duty="" our;="" yoices.be="" heard="" these="" eventful="" time3,="" when.="" satap-,="" labor-="" ing="" incessantly="" destroy="" kingdom="" understands="" his="" reign="" short,="" son="" man="" draweth="" nigh.="" opr="" enemies="" n’otlinderstand="" god="" ofheavqnhey="" fighting="" "against,="" angel="" jromdieaven="" shouldi="" declare="" unto="" them,="" wpuld="" think="" some="" eyil="" ,="" spirit="" had="" pcsseeelpn.of="" ,their="" senses.,="" how-="" rhe="" saying="" .that="" :‘darkness="" covers="" earth="" and,="" gross="" darkness="" minds,="" people'?,.="" ,-wo="" w.lsh="" lo.ndd="" .testimony="" thousands="" who="" pave="" already="" published="" same,="" :thafc="" la="" work;of="" lord,="" joseph="" smith="" was="" prophet,="" carrying="" wpifc="" began.="" marriage="" religion,="" defend="" every="" other="" faith="" -with="" latest="" breath.="" willing="" obey="" laws="" the,="" land,="" loye="" name="" washington,="" names="" framers="" declaration="" independence,="" born="" or.="" daughter="" ameri-="" ca="" loves="" freedom="" liberty.="" ourb.0.="" met="" the.lt.="" thursday="" present="" month,="" bister'read="" inter-="" view="" between="" pres.="" john="" taylof="" and'="" ilr.="" hoi-="" lister!,="" after="" which="" many="" .eistejs="" time="" would="" admit="" of,'="" spoke="" bore="" strong;="" testimonies="" work;="" celestial="" marriage,="" pplrlt="" manifested="" throughout="" interview="" by="" our,="" beloved="" pres-="" ident.="" pray="" be="" lengthened="" olrtb,="" accomplish="" all="" good="" heart="" desires,="" bold="" jn="" high="" esteem="" pur="" slaters="" who;="" are’="" filled="" splrltof="" ably="" represented="" capitol="" of.="" kation.="" blessed="" prospered="" undertake="" tn="" righteous-="" ness,="" also="" that.="" ,will="" of'-hla'="" faithful="" hand-malleus="" who.="" striving="" elevate="" mankind,="" fully="" appreciate="" qur;familles;and="" homes="" earnest="" desire="" bisl="" ore,.-="" emma="" s.="" smith,="" b.="" mary="" j.="" west,="" coun.<="" div="">[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE.

		GOSHEN, APRIL 3, 1879.
TO MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS,
	Dear Sister,—I pen these few lines to ac-
quaint you with a sad accident which befell
two young men "brothers" Lorenzo and
Thomas Wilson of this place on the 1st, inst.
caused by a cave while working in an iron
mine in Tintic; which instantly took the life
of Thomas the younger aged 21 years, and
dislocated the hip of the other and otherwise
badly hurt him; hopes are entertained of his
recovery. He has a wife and two small chil-
dren. The funeral took place yesterday, when
great respect was shown. Several young peo-
ple preceded the corpse (walking in couples)
which four young men carried to the school
house, where appropriate and consoling re-
marks were made. Their mother Mrs. Mary
Dodds, who probably you recollect, is Coun-
selor in the R. S. here. She has experienced
similar distress before, but is a person full of
integrity and faith, and places her trust in
Jehovah upon whom she relies in her great
trouble.
	We held the first meeting in our new Relief
Society House on the 28, ult. Bishop Wm.
Price met with us and dedicated the house.
We are thankful to have it so far finished, and
hope yourself Sister E. R. Snow and other
sisters will favor us with a visit, for your good
teachings still abide in our memories and help
to stimulate us to diligence.
	Ever praying God to abundantly bless you,
is the desire of your sister in the Gospel of
Christ.
		MARY ANN TILL

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	When I read in the papers of the noble
stand taken by my sisters in their several
Mass Meetings throughout Utah, in defence
of the glorious principles of their religion; I
felt desirious of raising my voice with the rest
of my sisters in solemn protest against any
interference with our religious rights.
	We have no organization of Relief Society
as yet, so I thought I would pen a few of my
thoughts upon paper. I feel to say, thank
God that we have such noble advocates who
dare stand forth in the face of the whole world,
as it were, and proclaim that they were the
wives and daughters of good and great men
who practised patriarchal marriage, and pro-
test against any interference with their sacred
religious rights.
	Our enemies may scoff and sneer as much as
they please, at the idea of polygamy being
part of our religion, in their corrupt hearts
they cannot see any thing pure and noble in
this principle. They judge us by themselves,
which is not always a righteous judgement.
And the noble self sacrificing sisters who went
to Washington to plead the cause of the Saints
of God; I feel that they deserve the lasting
gratitude of their sisters in Utah, whether
their appeal has any effect or not, it does not
make any material difference to us, let the
result be with God. As the Lord has said
through his prophet Joseph Smith, "Let my
Saints appeal to the highest court in the land,
and if they will not do them justice, then let
them appeal to their Father in heaven, and
He will hear them and come out with judg-
ments upon those unworthy servants who
have the power to do the Saints j[-]stice but
will not. They will fi[-]d when it is too late
what it is to measure [-]rms with the Almighty
God of heaven. We know this principle is of
God, and we know if we are firm in the cause
of truth, and the principles we have espoused,

[Column 2]
we will come out right, we can have no doubt
as to the result. We may in the future,(as we
have done in the past) have to pass through
trials and persecutions, to try us and prove
our faith. What is our religion worth, if we
are not willing to live for it, and die for it too,
if need be.
	Let us live up to the principle of plural mar-
riage, and teach it to our daughters as pure
and holy, revealed by the Almighty, to per-
petuate a noble race of people upon the earth,
that the noble intelligent spirits, that have
been held in reserve, in the eternal worlds, to
come forth in these last days to take part in
the great Latter-day work, and to prepare a
people for the coming of the Savior. What a
glorious privilege to come forth and receive
parentage smong the Latter-day Saints, and
what a great responsibility is resting on the
parents to bring this noble r[-]ce up, in the
principles of righteousness and truth, and set
an example worthy of imitation. How many
of us is there that realize this in the light we
should. Let each one answer for themselves.
	May the Lord of heaven bless you with
health and strength, to enable you to carry on
the work that you are so worthily engaged in,
that your valuable paper may continue to be,
as it ever has been, a true EXPONENT of the
feelings and views of the women of Utah. I
remain as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel.
		SARAH M. POMEROY.
MESA CITY, ARIZONA, FEB. 14, 1879. 

		PAROWAN, Feb. 12, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We feel it our duty to let our voices be heard
in these eventful times, when Satan is labor-
ing incessantly to destroy the kingdom of God,
for he understands that his reign is short, and
that the coming of the son of man draweth
nigh. Our enemies do not understand that it
is the God of heaven they are fighting against,
and if an angel from heaven should declare it
unto them, they would think some evil spirit
had possession of their senses. How true the
saying that  :darkness covers the earth and
gross darkness the minds of the people". We
wish to add our testimony to the thousands
who have already published the same, that
this is the work of the Lord, and that Joseph
Smith was a true Prophet, and that this People
are carrying out the work he began. Plural
Marriage is a part of our religion, and we will
defend it and every other principle of our faith
with our latest breath. We are willing to
obey the true laws of the land. We love the
name of Washington, and the names of the
framers of the Declaration of Independence,
and every true born son or daughter of Ameri-
ca loves Freedom and Liberty.
	Our R. S. met on the 1st Thursday of the
present month, and one sister read the inter-
view between Pres. John Taylor and Mr. Hol-
lister, after which as many of the sisters as
time would admit of, spoke and bore strong
testimonies of this work; of Celestial Marriage,
and of the true and noble spirit manifested
throughout the interview by our beloved Pres-
ident. And we pray that his days may be
lengthened out upon the earth, that be may
accomplish all the good his heart desires.
	We hold in high esteem our sisters who are
filled with the spirit of our religion, who have
so ably represented us in the Capitol of our
Nation. We pray that they may be blessed and
prospered in all they undertake in righteous-
ness, and also that God will bless all of his
faithful hand-maidens who are striving to
elevate and bless mankind, and may we all
fully appreciate our families and homes is the
earnest desire of your sisters,
		EMMA S. SMITH, Pres. R. S.
		MARY J. WEST, Coun.


236		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A GEM FOR EVERY MONTH.

	We have been reading recently in "The
American Home," some articles which were
very interesting on the subject which forms
the heading to this chapter, from which we
select the poems for each month. "The
American home is a pleasing weekly jour-
nal published in Chicago, and contains many
items of special interest, letters from
Washington, and articles on floriculture, in
fact a great variety of literary matter that
must certainly benefit those who read it
with care.

JANUARY.

By her who in this month is born
No gems but Garnets should be worn;
They will insure her constancy,
True friendship and fidelity.

	This is a mineral combination of silicates
of alumina, lime, iron and manganese, and
is colored in variety according to the differ-
ent proportions of the ingredients.

FEBRUARY.

The February born will find
Sincerity and and peace of mind,
Freedom from passion and from care,
If they say Amethyst will wear.

The Amethyst is a sub-species of quartz,
of a bluish violet color. The name is from
the Greek.

MARCH.

Who on this earth of ours their eyes
In March first open shall be wise;
In days of peril firm and brave,
And wear a Bloodstone to their grave.

April.

She who from April dates her years
Diamonds should wear, lest bitter tears,
For vain repentance flow; this stone
Emblem of innocence is known.

MAY.

Who first beholds the light of day
In Spring's sweet flowery month of May,
And wears an emerald all her life,
Shall be a loved and happy wife.

Emeralds are found in Grenada and Siberia.
It is a silicate of alumina and glucina, col-
ored with oxyd of chromium. Its color is
a decided rich green.
	Queen Victoria's state crown contains
3,093 precious stones, among which are
eleven Emeralds, 1,363 brilliant diamonds,
and 1,273 rose diamonds.

JUNE.

Who comes with summer to this earth,
And owes to June her day of birth,
With ring of Agate on her hand
Can health, wealth and long life command.

JULY.

The glowing Ruby should adorn
Those who in warm July are born;
Then will they be exempt and free
From love's doubts and anxiety.

	The glowing Ruby serves its patrons born
in July, and so rare is the real ruby it is
considered more precious than the diamond.

AUGUST.

The August born should
Wear a Sardonyx, or for thee
No conjugal felicity.
The August born without this stone,
'Tis said, must live unloved and lone.

This is a reddish yellow stone, nearly allied
to onyx, which is commonly a light brown
and white. This is the mineral used for
Cameos, the figure being cut in one layer,
the other layer funishing the back-ground.

SEPTEMBER.

A maiden born when autumn leaves
Are rustling in September's breeze

[Column 2]
A Sapphire on her brow should bind,
'Twill cure diseases of the mind.

The oxyd alumina comes in the form of
emery. This is granular. It appears also
in crystalline forms, and when clear, in all
its beauty and rarity, is the gem known as
sapphire, which is of various colors, though
it is only the blue crystals that generally
receive this name; a red crystal of it is call-
ed the Oriental Ruby, and a yellow one the
Oriental Topaz.

OCTOBER.

October's child is born for woe,
And life's vicissitudes must know;
But lay an opal on her breast,
And hope will lull those woes to rest

Opal is a silicious mineral. The color of
the Noble Opal, so highly prized as a gem,
is commonly milky, and has a play of bril-
liant but delicate internal reflections. In
the Fire Opal the reflections are a fire red
in color. This stone is esteemed unlucky,
but the absurd superstition cannot be traced
farther back than Scott's novel of "Anne of
Gernstien," in which the Baroness of Her-
mione of Arnheim wears one.

NOVEMBER.

	November's wail finds its solace in the
thought that,

Who first comes to this world of woe
With drear November's fog and snow,
Should prize the Topaz amber hue—
Emblem of friends and lovers true.

DECEMBER.

If cold December gave you birth,
The month of snow, and ice, and mirth,
Place on your hand a Turquoise blue;
Success will bless whate'er you do.

The Turquoise is found in Persia, and the
Shah is supposed to have in his possession
all the first gem[-], as he allows only those of
inferior quality to leave the country. In
consequence large Turquoises of good qual-
ity bring great prices.
	The "Home," in writing up the gems, has
given them in Analectic Chapters, num-
bered. The writer says in looking over a 
huge package of old newspapers her eye fell
upon a poem entitled "A Gem for every
Month."
	The diamond is perhaps the most inter-
esting of all gem subjects to most readers.
"Some people believe that the time is not
far distant when some chemist will discover
the secret of making the Diamond. And
why not? Lapis-lazuli, an azure blue min-
eral, from which are manufactured costly
vases and other ornamental articles, once
worth its weight in gold, can now be manu-
factured by the ton." The arrangement of
the stones of the Diamond constitutes the
difference between it and pure charcoal. In
Amsterdam there are 10,000 Jews directly,
or indirectly, dependent upon Diamond-
cutting as a trade, and they are poorly paid.
The three forms in which Diamonds are cut
are the table, the rose, and the brilliant. The
brilliant is a double pyramid, or cone, cut
off at the top by a large plane, or table, and
at the bottom by a small one called the col-
let. The Romans, taught by the Indians,
valued the diamond entirely on account of
its supernatural virtues, and Pliny says of
it, it baffles poisons, keeps off insanity, and
dispels vain fears. The Italians asserted
that it maintained concord between hus-
band and wife.
	Doubtless, jewels are best beheld in situs,
the situs, however, being neither the mine
nor the matrix, but in their proper place—
about some fair person, which gives you a
chance of admiring two beautiful things at
one time."


MISS ANTHONY'S SPEECH AT THE

WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

BREAD AND THE BALLOT.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony took the stand,
and made an earnest and logical speech,
the subject being the relations between
"Bread and the ballot."
	Miss Anthony said w[-]man wants bread
not the ballot. It was usual with people as
long as they got all they wanted to be con-
tent. She cited the British workingman,
sketched his rise and progress from the
time when he never made a ripple on po-
litical thought down to the present, when
the franchise gives him the power behind
the throne. She said disfranchisement is
always political degradation to any class
affected by it—disfranchisement and degra-
dation being in politics synonymous terms.
The English mechanic and laborer who were
ground down and robbed by capitalists fifty
years ago mobbed their best friend, John
Bright, when he advocated the ballot for
them at a public meeting. They did not
want the ballot, they wanted bread.
	So woman may think she does not want
the ballot. Miss Anthony then proceeded
to show that parties and politicians show no
respect to any person or sex, color or condi-
tion, unless such person has power, power
to vote, power to control results, power to
influence elections, power to give success or
defeat to parties, to elect such persons to
office or to defeat them. She quoted Eng-
lishwomen voting at municipal elections,
and how the instinct of self preservation
makes party leaders court the laboring vote
here as there. Human nature is selfish. It
looks out for its own interests. It shows
favor to those upon whom it depends for
success. It is not magnanimity and gener-
osity that controls parties or men. Politics
and Republics are ungrateful. Self-interest
is the great incentive that yields homage to
the power of the workingman.
	The Grand old Democratic Party was the
party that early advocated the rights of the
workingman, of the poor man. Jefferson
opposed property qualification. Some per-
sons here perhaps are old enough to remem-
ber when a man could not vote unless he
was worth a certain amount of property.
Old Ben Franklin ridiculed this doctrine.
He said here is a man who owns a donkey
worth say $250. Because he owns this
property to-day he can vote. To-morrow
the donkey dies, and he can not vote. Was
it the man or the donkey who voted?
[Laughter.]
	Martin Van Buren advocated the right
of the poor man to vote. It was this posi-
tion toward the poor man that gave the
Democratic party its power. The word
Democrat meant opposed to aristocracy.
The Irishman, ere he left the green island
shore, was a Democrat, prepared to vote
the Democratic ticket because he was poor
and that party favored him, and ever since
that time the Democratic party has stood
ready to give him whatever he asked for,
because he had a vote and could give them
power and place and party success by his
vote.
	He wanted ten hours work for a day's
labor, and the Legislature gave it to him.
He wanted eight hours' labor to make a 
day's work and the Legislature gave it to
him, and so everything he demanded has
been at his service because he had a vote.
These votes gave the Democracy power un-
til they abandoned their record and showed
they had no real sympathy with the poor
man and the oppressed, by smiling and


[Column 1]
bending to the Irishman and consenting to
the degradation and oppression of the black
man.
	Then Democracy lost its prestige. Then
the Republican party, founded on the ruins
of the Whig party, stepped forward to
power, and the Republican party won suc-
cess by emancipating the black man, by be-
coming his friend, by giving him the ballot,
and this party, so long as it is true to its
professions, will have the vote of and the
affection and sympathy of the negro to
whom it gave liberty and the ballot.
	But it was all selfishness. The Republi-
can party did not love the negro. It was
his aid they were after, his ballot, his vote
and aid to give them victory and power.
Emancipation was not adopted as long as it
could be safely put off.
	Her description of the great change
which had taken place in the condition of the
colored race, and how much colored voters
are respected and loved by politicians since
they have the ballot power in their hands,
was vivid. She added that the wool of a 
negro is just as curly, the lip just as thick,
and the heel just as long as it ever was.
Yet these politicians see more beauty and
symmetry in them somehow—and how
would it be with the women voters? Why
these candidates for political honors would
no doubt, just before elections, imagine
they saw the wings just cropping out on 
them! [Applause.] The old masters of the 
negro now often address them thus: "Fel-
low-citizens, I thank you for the honor con-
ferred on me," etc. With what terms of
deference and endearment they will address
the female voters in the future is left for
that happy millennium to develop. [Ap-
plause.]
	She argued to show how necessary it is 
for the laboring men in this country to com-
bine together to command the respect of
politicians and capitalists. By this means
can labor maintain its dignity and self-
respect. And how essential for women to
participate in this power and means of self-
protection and preservation.
	Miss Anthony referred to the number of
women supporting themselves in this coun-
try: 300,000 engaged in farm work, half a 
million in domestic service, women at work
in factories and other employments, some
two millions outside of home life. For
these women she asked the ballot, to pro-
tect them in their wages. The women are
ready to join any political party that comes
to the front in behalf of woman suffrage.
Workmen who have the ballot must be con-
sulted. Miss Anthony resurrected dead
and gone conventions, sketched the Cali-
fornia mining strike and the Ohio railroad
strike to show the power the ballot gives
the laboring man. She gave the instance
of Gov. Hicks, of California, who aided the
capitalists to employ Chinamen in the mines.
He was defeated when next he ran and an-
other Governor elected.
	On the other hand Gov. Hayes waited for
official notice of mobs of laborers and work-
ing men—until the row was over—and lo!
he is President. Shrewd party men and
managers grant the position of working-
men, or make believe they do.
	The Grangers had revolutionized the 
western railroad system, reduced the fare,
and benefitted themselves. They had bal-
lots and used them to help themselves.
	The ignorant Irishman, the uneducated
foreigner, the benighted and almost bar-
barous negro have each been enfranchised.
They have been enabled to protect them-
selves by the ballot, but women, the moth-
ers, the wives, the sisters of our native-born
citizens, cultured, educated, the peer of

[Column 2]
their brothers, husbands and fathers, are
left to pay taxes without a voice to consent
or refuse, left to the grinding selfishness of
capitalists, the sport or the caprice or whim
of parties and legislatures who make laws
that control or oppress them and for whose
complaints and petitions they have no time
or inclination to listen. Women have no
votes. They can therefore make no im-
pression upon parties. Are women working
15 hours for a day's work in a factory? They
will ask in vain for a 10 or 8 hours law for
themselves. They have no vote to compel
the party to aid them. She quoted a strike
of women in a Troy, N. Y., collar factory,
who, after holding out for six months, were
at last obliged to go to work at less wages
than they had when they stopped work,
clearly demonstrating that the lack of the
ballot had caused this great injury.
	Justice demands that woman should have
the right to say if her property be taxed or 
not.
	Woman wants bread not the ballot, but
give her the ballot and she will vote her-
self an opportunity to get her bread.
	Give her the ballot and she will then hold
her share of public offices. Then some
delicate woman will sit at the office desk
while the yawning six footer will go out to
labor as he should at some work to develop
his manhood and strength. Women then
will sell papers of pins and yards of tape
and the tin whistles. Women will keep
the books. Women will then be in partner-
ship, will carry on the business. Wives of
laboring men and mechanics will then own
half the money that the husband earns.
	And not only will they do this, but when
women vote then whiskey will close its
reign, then will righteous laws be passed,
vice and crime be largely eliminated, taxes
reduced, honesty and economy obtain in
public affairs and justice be administered to
all. Miss Anthony gave some startling
facts proving that woman's work for tem-
perance, without the ballot, had in reality
been productive of injury to the cause of
temperance and had thrown increased
power in the hands of the liquor dealers.
She showed woman working without the 
ballot had thus killed the Prohibitory law
in Massachusetts, Local Option in Indiana,
drawn insults upon the 18,000 women of
Chicago who had opposed Sunday liquor
selling, and in Minnesota had created a for-
midable society of the liquor men, who in
one year expended a million of dollars to
defeat woman's work.
	She took a vote of the audience as to wo-
man's need of the ballot for the protection
of her wages, and in order to do effective
temperance work, receiving in reply a
hearty "aye."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		237


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

	ST. CHARLES, IDAHO, APRIL 15, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In reading Elder Woodruff's Epistle to
the saints, I was very much pleased with
the spirit that it breathed. "Do right let
the consequence follow" brought forcibly
to my mind the narrative of the Jewish
Mother and her sons, as stated in the Tal-
mud, of which the following is an extract.
"During the terrible times which followed
the fall of the Holy City, Hannah and her
seven sons were cast into prison.
	According to their ages they were brought
before the tyrant conqueror, and command-
ed to pay homage to him and his gods "God
forbid" exclaimed the eldest lad, "that I
should bow to thy image. Our command-
ments say to us, 'I am the Lord thy God' to

[Column 2]
no other will I bow." He was immediately
led out to execution, and the same demand
was made of his brother, the second son.
"My brother bowed not" he answered "and
no more will I." "Wherefore not?" asked
the tyrant. "Because" replied the lad, "the
second commandment of the Decalogue tells
us, 'thou shalt have no other God but me."
His death followed immediately his brave
words.
	"My religion teaches me 'Thou shalt wor-
ship no other God" (Ex, xxxiv: 14) said the
third son, "and I welcome the fate accord-
ed to my brothers rather than bow to thee
or thy images."
	The same homage was demanded of the
fourth son, but brave and faithful as his
brothers, he replied, "He that sacrificeth
unto any God save unto the Lord only (Ex.
xxii: 20) and was slain pitilessly. "Hear
O Israel! the Lord our God, the Lord is
One!" exclaimed the fifth lad, yielding up
his young life with the watch-word of
Israel's hosts.
	"Why art thou so obstinate" was asked
of the sixth brother, when he too, was
brought before the tyrant and scorned the
propositions made him.
	"The Lord thy God is in the midst of
thee, a mighty and a terrible God" (Deut.
vii: 21) he said; and died for the principles
he proclaimed.
	Then the seventh and youngest boy was
brought before the murderer of his rela-
tives, who addressed him kindly, saying,
"my son, come bow before my gods." And
the child answered. "God forbid! Our holy
religion teaches us 'Know therefore this
day, and reflect in thy heart that the Lord
he is God, in the heavens above and on the
earth beneath, there is none else;' (Deut. iv:
39.) Never will we exchange our God for
any other, neither will he exchange us for
any other nation, for as it is written, Thou
hast this day acknowledged the Lord, and
the Lord hath acknowledged thee this day,
that thou art a peculiar people!"
	Still the tyrant spoke smoothly and with
kind words.
	"Thou art young" he said; "thou hast
seen but little of the pleasures of this life,
not as much as has fallen to the portion of
thy brethren. Do as I wish thee and thy
future shall be bright and happy,"
	"The Lord will reign for ever and ever,"
said the lad; "thy nation and thy kingdom
will be destroyed; thou art here to-day, to-
morrow in the grave; to-day elevated to-
morrow lowly; but the Most High One en-
dures for ever."
	"See" continued the other, "thy brothers
lie slain before thee; their fate will be
thine if thou refuseth to do as I desire;
see I will cast my ring to the ground, stoop
thou and pick it up: that I will consider
allegiance to my gods-"
	"Thinkest thou that I fear thy threats!"
returned the unterrified lad; "why should
I fear a human being more than the great
God the King of kings?"
	"Where and what is thy God?" asked
the oppressor; "is there a God in the world?
"Can there be a world without a creator?"
replied the youth. "Of thy gods 'tis said,
mouths they have but speak not: of our
God the psalmist says 'By the word of the
Lord were the heavens made.' Thy gods
have eyes but they see not; but the eyes of
the Lord run to and fro in the whole earth.
Thy gods have ears, but they hear not; but
of our God 'tis written, 'The Lord heark-
ened and heard; of thy god 'tis said s nose
they have but smell not; while our God
smelled the sweet savor; hands have thy
gods but they touch not; while our God
says, 'My hand hat[-] also founded the


earth,' of thy gods 'tis written feet they
have but walk not. while Zachariah tells us
of our God, 'His feet will stand that day
upon the Mount of Olives."
	"Then" said the cruel one; "if thy God
hath all these attributes why does he not
deliver thee from my power."
	The lad replied; "He delivered Chanan-
yah and his companions from the power of
Nebuchadnezzar, but they were righteous
men, and Nebuchadnezzar was a king de-
serving of seeing a miracle performed, but
for me, alas I am not worthy of redemp-
tion, neither art thou worthy of the demo-
stration of God's power."
	"Let the lad be slain as were his bro-
thers," commanded the tyrant.
	Then spoke the mother of the boys: "Give
me my child" she cried, "Oh cruel king,
let me fold him in my arms ere thou des-
troyest his innocent young life!" she threw
her arms around the lad, clasping him
tightly to her bosom, and pressed her lips
to his. "Take my life!,' she cried "kill
me first before my child,"
	"Nay" he answered, scoffingly, "I can-
not do it, for thy own laws forbid; whether
it be ox, or sheep ye shall not kill it and its
young in one day" (Lev. 27)
	"Oh, woe to thee" replied the mother,
"thou who art so particular to regard the
laws. Then pressing her boy to her heart,
"go my dear one, she said, "say to Abra-
ham, that my sacrifice hath exceeded his.
He built one altar whereon to sacrifice
Isaac; thy mother hath built seven altars,
and sacrificed seven Isaac's in one day. He
was but tempted thy mother performed."
	After the execution of her last son she
became insane, and fell from her house-top.
Where she fell she expired.
								NESTOR.


238		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS OF THE GOSHEN PRIMARY
ASSOCIATION.
	A little party and meeting was held in
the schoolhouse at Goshen on Thursday,
April 17. Bishop Wm. Price was present,
with some unexpected visitors from Santa-
quin, whom we were pleased to see. The
meeting was opened by singing, and prayer
by our Bishop. Singing, "Don't think
there is nothing for children to do." Bish-
op Price then addressed the children, mak-
ing appropriate remarks which were very
gratifying to those who preside as well as
to the members. Sister Louisa Taylor
made some suitable remarks, and Bro. Stick-
ney, of Santaquin, likewise spoke to the
comprehension of the little folks. Several
of the children then recited pieces, after
which their President, Sarah Roberts, di-
rected them through a series of exercises,
and questioned them upon what we had
taught them, to which they creditably re-
sponded. The meeting then closed by
siuging and benediction. The President
then arranged the children by two, and 
marched them to the new Society House
close by, where they were surprised by the
sight of buns, tarts, candy and good things
neatly arranged upon low tables, to which
they were seated; Bishop Price asked the
blessing, and while they partook of the
feast prepared, showed them the necessity
of having their names enrolled, so
they could partake of the feast, and nar-
rated the history of the Supper of the
Great Bridegroom. We had a large attend-
ance that day, and several came who never
attended the meeting before; as a large
supply of refreshments was made there was
abundance for all, also for some aged per-
sons and sick people. The children then


dispersed outside and ran races, &c., and at
an early hour they were finally dismissed.
Ever desiring the interest of Primary As-
sociations, with love we are your sisters in
the Gospel,
			SARAH ROBERTS, Pres't.
			M. A TILL, Sec'y.


THE April number W. S. J. Manchester
states that the smallest division that has
been recorded since 1870 took place on
March 7th, when Mr. Courtneys resolution
was rejected by 217 votes to 103. Majority
114. In the majority by which the motion
was defeated were 107 Conservatives, in-
cluding 24 members of the Governments, 6
Home Rulers, and 64 Liberals. The mi-
nority comprised of 62 Liberals, 29 Con-
servatives, and 12 Home Rulers.
	There were many excellent speechei on
this question while it was before the House
which we will perhaps make extracts from
soon. Suffice to say the woman question
is at present being successfully agitated.


PROGRESS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.—There
is light and hope. The world moves. On
Saturday evening last, at a district school
meeting, which district comprises most of
the inhabitants in a town of 4000 persons,
the district elected Miss Mary Gordon, one
of the Prudential Committee. She is a
lady worthy of such a phsition, and a high-
er one. It is a victory for Woman Suffrage.
The town is three to one Republican, as
against Democrats and Greenbackers. Of
course, Republicans, like all in power, are
inimical to Woman Suffrage; but the law is,
and is destined to be supported by the wo-
men. Women are timid at first, but bold and
brave afterwards, and are seldom wanting
in strict integrity and unalloyed sympathy
with right and justice.				H.
	Exeter, March 17, 1879.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
And in fact everything you want in general
merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASEDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 Bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS, Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly reponded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
		MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
						Salt Lake Ciiy.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodat[-] her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
next door to the Woman's Exponent Office.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of 
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES

Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 7.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1879.		No. 24.


[For the EXPONENT.
THREE RAIN-DROPS.

	I sat at my window one morning,
		And heard the sweet splash of the rain;
	While the musings of things long-forgotten
		The musical tinkling refrain
Chimed in with my dreaming, and, haply, a thought
Embodied the lesson the rain-drops taught.

	Three crystal dew-drops were descending,
		Whispering and dancing with mirth;
	"Dear sisters," said one, "though together,
		How soon will we now reach the earth;
Sent down by cloud-mother to land or to sea,
And where, oh, where will our resting place be?"

	They sped down the wind-path, and, parting,
		Each one went a different way;
	One, sorrowing, felt her bright beauty
		Grow dim with the mud where she lay.
"Ah me," sighed the rain-drop, "and is this the last
Of all I had dreamed and hoped in the past?"

	Another fell with sweet trembling
		On the glossy green leaf of a tree.
	"You need me, bright leaf, and I'm content
		To give all my strength unto thee,
For all I asked of the future was this—
To give life to earth with my life-giving kiss."

	The last, on a velvet rose resting,
		Glistened with pride, and softly said—
	"O sweet, I am adding to beauty a charm;
		How happy am I that we're wed!"
While deeper, with shame, sank far down in the ground
The rain-drop so soiled with the home she had found,

	But earth to her bosom enfolding
		The dew, whispered, 'God knoweth all;
	And he will accept thee, though tarnished
		With filth of the street at the fall."
So; meekly content with her lot, she passed through
the changes that come to earth-moistened dew,

	When soon she came laughing and singing
		To the spring bubbling up near the hill,
	And sparkling with joy kissed the pale cups
		Of lily-bells close to the rill.
Thus; chasing her sisters with frolicsome glee;
She gains the riv[-]r and sweeps to the sea.

	When the dew-drop was sadly wishing
		Such honor had never been guessed;
	But experience had given the power
		To live for and love but the best.
Have I not felt dimmed by the mud on mo cast?
Have patience, God rules, He'll right all at last.
			ESIUS.


[Column 1]
FRIENDSHIP AND CONFIDENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we take a retrospective view of 
our past life, and examine our relative posi-
tion to our Heavenly Father, what is it that
gives us confidence in Him? It is to know
that we have ever loved His laws, and as
far as we know them they have ever been
our delight; that we have also loved his at-
tributes and desired to imitate them; con-
sequently, virtue and goodness have been
exemplars to us, and we have practiced
them according to the light and knowledge
we possessed; that we have loved those in 
whom such were conspicuous; have set our
foot upon all that opposed these principles,
though to do so we had to wage a continual
warfare with surrounding circumstances
and surrounding spirits, both embodied and 
invisible, the warfare being generally the 
silent battle and the secret strife connected
with the working of our own soul! and 
when no eye was upon us save those of God
and angels. When we know all this has
been our experience it gives us a confi-

[Column 2]
dence towards God that nothing else can
impart with equal force! We offer up our 
prayers with a more confiding spirit, for we
have a conviction that they will be heard
and accepted. We may lose our friends,
poverty may become our portion, isolation
our present lot, calumny may assail us with
"back-wounding" stripes, misunderstand-
ing, that hydra-headed monster, may cast
its baleful influence around us, but no mat-
ter—none of these, separate or combined,
can destroy the confidence in our God which 
such a life bestows upon us; amidst it all 
we feel the light of his countenance beam-
ing upon us, we hear the whisperings of 
His Spirit in our heart, saying, "Fear not,
I am with thee; I have redeemed thee,
thou art mine!"
	Again, when we have been so fortunate
as to find a friend "after our own heart,"
when we have proved them by oft-repeated
trials, often "weighed in the balance, but
never found wanting," in our prosperity
near to us and rejoicing with us, upholding
us in the sunshine that was flooding our
pathway, watching that we became not
dazzled by it, cautioning us to be moderate
in our joys, temperate in our pleasures,
humble in our wealth, charitable in our 
riches, grateful to the bounteous Giver for
the blessings He bestowed upon us, and re-
minding us that we are but stewards, who
will have to give an account of our steward-
ship. To such an one we might confide our 
bosom secrets, with a confidence that the
grave would not be more silent. In all the 
scenes of life they would be unchanging;

		Near us when our sun doth shine,
		But nearer still when in decline.

	When wealth had made wings and fled
away, when summer friends had departed
from us, frozen up by the chilling winds of 
adversity, when our heart indeed felt heavy
with its many trials and its adverse cir-
cumstances, who remained that had waited
on our footsteps while prosperity beamed
upon us? Who stood fondly lingering by
to speak the consoling word and point us to 
a brighter day? The friend whose love
was no earth-born passion, and therefore
the things of earth had no power to affect
it—the friend that had ever had our confi-
dence! Oh, there is a divinity in the con-
dence such souls repose in each other! Such
friendship is heavenly, Godlike, and conse-
quently eternal. Are all capable of such
sentiments? I will leave an open verdict
on that query, but I know generally educa-
tion, association, and above all that prolific
source, circumstance, make us what we are,
and I know these exalted sentiments only
thrive in a cultivated heart and mind, and 
in a warm, sincere and reserved disposi-
tion, in a self-denying, self-controlling, self-
reliant spirit. These characters are the 
few, hence we find genuine friendship is 
rare, as such but rarely meet their counter-
part. But there are few whose path of life
has been so sterile as not to furnish them
with some object by which they might
form bright ideas of the truth and beauty
of a confidential friendship. I sympathize
with those who do not carry a model in 
their own bosoms, even if it be only an
ideal one; for I verily believe the ideal will
yet be realized

[Column 3]
	Let us then cultivate everything that
will promote confidence in each other. Let
us practice sincerity, and never profess one
sentiment the duplicate of which is not
in our own bosoms. Let none profess more
than they feel is truth, for it is a fearful
and most injurious thing to be deceived—it
has ruined many a character that otherwise
might have been bright and valuable, and
woe be to the deceiver, for if conscience is
not dead, no other skeleton will be needed
in the closet than such a woeful reflection.
A kiss has often sealed many a sacred com-
pact, and should not be lightly given at
any time. There should be temperance
and a "word of wisdom" in kissing, most
assuredly; this is always observable in all
high toned, refined and cultivated people;
they never kiss indiscriminately, and gen-
erally very rarely. Confidence is the very
soul of all compacts, of whatever grade or
condition. It is the spirit of love and
friendship, and friendship is love without
his wing!


THE HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHIL-
DREN.—This subject has been laid before and
received the unqualified approbation of the
authorities of the Church as an enterprise
worthy the attention and support of all
Latter-day Saints. The plan of construction,
organization and arrangements will be soon
drawn up and presented for consideration
and approval, after which the several
stakes of Zion will be solicited to take shares
in the enterprise. We trust the people
will give due consideration to the matter,
remembering that no one knows in this 
sphere of uncertainty how soon such an
institution may be a place of greatest need
and benefit to him (or her.) It will be a 
place where each settlement can look for-
ward to for instruction to students desiring
to prepare themselves to be a source of
benefit and comfort to their sisters and also
as a center where those desiring to obtain
a knowledge of the art of nursing will find
a place of instruction.
	A special meeting was called, during the 
Quarterly Conference of the sisters at Og-
den Friday evening the 9th inst. at which
time the subject was well talked up by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
David M. Stuart, C. F. Middleton, coun-
selor to Pres. Peery of that stake and Dr.R.
B. Pratt whose remarks and suggestions
were especially calculated to impress her
hearers with good ideas upon this im-
portant subject. An encouraging interest
was manifested in the project and a prom-
ise of assistance with faith, prayers and 
MEANS. An awakened spirit is being
manifested in many of the settlements
upon this subject which is to be hoped will
extend to all and result in a complete suc-
cess to the undertaking.


IT is one of the proofs of the indestructi-
ble religious nature of man that it is easier
to rob him of his liberty than his conscience,
even though it be a superstitious one; easier
to despoil him of his gods than of his 
goods, though he would so often gain by
the loss; easier to enslave his body than
coerce his mind.—Henry Rogers.


240		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

		SOUTH BOUNTIFUL, April 24, 1869.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	At South Bountiful Ward, Aug. 17, 1877,
a Young Ladies' M. I. A. was organized.
There were present Mrs. Sarah Holmes,
President Relief Society Davis Stake, and
Mary S. Clarke, Counselor. Nancy A. Clarke,
President of the Y. L. M.I. A. of Davis
Stake, and also Bishop Wm. Brown and
Joseph Hoyan, Counselor Brolter, Wm. At-
kinson. Officers of Y. L. M. I. A. elected:

	Lucinda Brown, President.
	Sarah Hogan,	}
	Eliza S. Nelsen,	}	Counselors.
	Phebe Hales,	}
	Evelyn Benson,	}

	After the organization was completed
some of the sisters and brethren spoke, en-
couraging the young ladies to be faithful
and united and sustain each other. The
Association now numbers fifty-seven mem-
bers, average attendance thirty-five. We
meet semi-monthly, and a good spirit pre-
vails.
	Sister Brown resigned her position on ac-
count of moving away, and on the 4th of
April the Society was re-organized as fol-
lows:

	Eliza S. Nelsen, President,
	Sarah A. Hogan,	}
	Phebe Hales,	}
	Evelyn Benson,	} Counselors,
	Melvina Moss,	}
	Helen M. Ellis,	}
	Martha Arnold,	}

	Sarah P. Moss,	} Secretaries.
	Alice E. Nobles,	}
	Olive Jonson, Treasurer.

	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, we
remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ELIZA S. NELSEN, Pres't.
				SARAH P. MOSS, Sec'y.

			PETTYVILLE, April 21, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We were organized into a Relief Society
Oct. 3, 1870, by Bishop Petty and Elder
J. C. Snow. The following officers were
elected unanimously:

	Jane C. Snow, President,
	Susan A. Barton,		} Counselor.
	Emeline M. Johnston,	}
	Hannah M. Henrie, Secretary,
	Almira Bunce, Treasurer.

	Two Teachers and six members enrolled.
Since then our numbers have gradually in-
creased, and we hope and trust that we
may ever be alive to our duties and respon-
sibilities that rest upon us in common with
our sisters in such a great and glorious
cause.
	Yours very respectfully,
		HANNAH M. HENRIE, Sec'y.

				FRANKLIN, Feb. 10, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We do not wish to be forgotten, and there-
fore will endeavor to give a short sketch of
our progression. Although we are back-
ward in reporting ourselves we are in a 
thriving condition. We were reorganized
last May by Sister Eliza R. Snow and E.
Davis. I think it aroused the sisters and
caused them to realize more fully their po-
sition in the kingdom of God, for we have

[Column 2]
a better attendance at meeting, and all
manifest a desire to press onward in the
work that we are engaged in. We feel
truly thankful to our beloved sisters for
their visit and good instructions; would be
pleased to see them oftener. We appreciate
their good counsel and feel to say God bless
them in their labors. Our officers are as
follows:
	Elizabeth Fox, President,
	Sophia Meechan,	} Counselors,
	Mary Hawks,	}
	Susie Parnell,	} Secretaries.
	Annie Hatch		}
	Agnes Durant, Treasurer.
	Quite a number of Teachers and the
names of fifty-two members enrolled; thirty
average attendance. Our meeting house,
that has been in contemplation so long, is
now completed with the exception of seats,
which will be finished soon. It was dedi-
cated Dec. 12, 1878. We had a supper and
ball given the evening before on the occa-
sion. Pres. Moses Thatcher and Counselor
Hammond, accompanied by Bro. Ormsby,
were present. We had a time of feasting
and rejoicing, in our prosperity not forget-
ting the poor. The brethren gave much
good instruction in regard to the poor,
storing grain, and raising our children,
which if we regard will prove a great bene-
fit to us. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly. We send our annual report end-
ing June 18, 1878.
Total receipts................................$333 63
Disbursements:
To needy........................................ 48 11
Relief House................................. 80 03
Logan Temple............................... 14 02
Total amount on hand................... 191 47
We have 100 bu. and 44 lbs. of wheat on
hand at present.
	With our estimable President at our
head we are trying to do our duty and keep
up with the spirit of the times. We are
always glad to receive your valuable paper,
and fully endorse the remarks of the sisters
contained in its pages. I remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				SUSIE PARNELL, Sec'y.

		MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO.,
					April 1, 1879.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Brief report of the annual meeting of
Minersville Relief Society, held in the
Meeting House Jan. 2, 1879. We were
honored by the presence of Bishop James
McKnight and his two counselors William
Wood and Joseph Banks, Sen.; many more
of the brethren attended. After singing
and prayer, our President made some en-
couraging remarks and stated the object of
the meeting. The Bishop and his counsel-
ors instructed the sisters in the various du-
ties pertaining to Relief Societies, which
were very interesting. The Financial re-
port of the past year was read and accepted.
Account of same:
Donations from members.............$102 96
For Temple.......................................      2 00
							      ———
	Total					      104 96
			DISBURSEMENTS.

To the needy, &c.............................$102 96
To build Granary.............................  115 00
Wheat donated the past year... 27 bu., 27lb.
Amount of wheat stored.........101 bu.

		STATISTICAL REPORT.

Members................................................47
Teachers.................................................10
Meetings.................................................30

[Column 3]
Average attendance...............................19
WOMAN'S EXPONENT............................  6
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
		POLLY ANN ZABRISKIE, Pres't.
		SUSAN ROBERTS, Sec'y.

			PANGUITCH, March 12, 1879

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In behalf of the Panguitch Ward Relief
Society, we send you the following report:
There has been donated since our last Semi-
Annual Conference (aside from anything
paid to our Relief Society house) the sum
of $62 58.
Disbursed to Manti Temple.............$26 75
Missionary..........................................  17 60
Needy..................................................    9 95

	At a recent meeting of our R. S. our
President said, although we were a little
behind the times she would like to have
an expression of the sister's feelings in re-
gard to polygamy and the opposition that
is manifested against it. It was carried
unanimously that we heartily endorse and
sustain the sentiments of our sisters in Salt
Lake and other places with regard to the
anti-polygamy movement of our enemies.
			MYRA HENRIE, Pres't.
			MARY B. HEYWOOD, Sec'y.


MRS. STANTON AND MORMON
WOMEN.
	Mrs. Stanton enquires, "Did you see in
Lucy’s paper of the 29th a correspondent
makes some strictures on the Mormon wo-
men on our platform, which Lucy does not
defend as she should? If George Q. Can-
non can sit in the Congress of the United
States without compromising that body on
the question of Polygamy, I should think
Mormon women might sit on our platform
without making us responsible for their re-
ligious faith. If, as the husband of four
wives, he can be tolerated in the Councils
of the nation and treated with respect,
surely the wives of only the fourth part of
man should be four times as worthy of ten[-]
der consideration. When the women of [-]
whole Territory are threatened with dis[--]
franchisement where should they go to
make their complaint but to the platform o[-]
the National Suffrage Association? If yo[-]
have not already rebuked the ‘Woman'[-]
Journal,’ do say this much."
	We have not rebuked the “Woman'[-]
Journal” for this and many other evidenc[--]
of the slave spirit, because we have only
pity for those women who turn and rend
their sister women working differently from
themselves. We so well know the sharp
wrongs women have endured, crushing in
many instances all their self-respect, th[-]
we do not like to rebuke them, and [-]-spe[-]
cially those who are our fellow-laoore[-]
For all slavish women a large amount[-]
pity mingles with our contempt. Whe[-]
we assumed the editorship of the "Ball[-]
box," adding to it the name of "Nation[-]
Citizen," as peculiarly significant of the d[-]
mands of the National Woman Suffrag[-]
Association that the right of suffrage shoul[--]
be secured by National law to all citizens [--]
the United Staies, thus taking the pow[--]
over the ballot out of the hands of State[-]
we issued a prospectus in accordance wi[--]
our purpose. * * *
	In accordance with this announcemen[-]
we have striven to act. There is not a wo-
man in the vilest slums and streets of New
York to whose protest against wrong the
National Association will not give heed
and the "National Citizen" espouse their 
cause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		241


For the EXPONENT.
				BE FIRM.

	My sisters be firm! If trials we have
		Either in pleasant or stormy weather
	Let us c[-]ing to each other in union and love
		And go hand in hand together

	Oftimes we are sad when clouds appear
		Yet cheerful when days are bright,
	The Spirit of God our hearts will cheer
		And show us the truth and the light.

	If chastened in love let us kiss the r[-]d
		And face all kinds of weather,
	Be true to each other, ourselves and our God
		And walk hand in hand together.

									—M. W. W.
Salt Lake City.


GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY.

Softly, oh softly, the years have swept by thee,
	Touching thee lightly with tenderest care:
Sorrow and care did they often bring n'gh thee;
	Yet they have left thee but beauty to w[-]ar,
		Grorwing old gracefully,
			Grac[-]fu[-]ly fair.

Far from the storms that are washing the oc[-]an; 
	Nearer each day to the pl[-]a[-]ant home light;
Far from the waves that are big with commotion, 
	Under full sail and the harbor in sight!
		Growing old cheerfully,
			Cheerful and bright.

Past all the winds that were adverse and ch[-]ll[-]ng;
	Past all the islands that lured thee to rest;
Past all the currents that wooed thee unwilling,
	Far from the port of the land of the blest,
		Growing old peacefully,
			Peacefully and blest.

Never a feeling of envy or [-]orrow,
	Where the bright faces of children are seen;
Never a year from their youth wouldst thou borrow,
	T[-]ou dost remember what lieth between,
		Growing old willingly,
		Gladly, I ween!

Rich in experience that angels might covet;
	Rich in a faith which has grown with thy year[-];
Rich in a love that grew from and above it;
	Soothing thy sorrows and hushing thy fears.
		Growing old wealthily,
			Loving and dear.

[-]earts at the sound of thy coming are lightened,
	Ready and willing thy band to relieve;
Many a face at thy kind words has brightene[-],
	"It is more blessed to give than receive!"
		Growing old happily;
			Blest, we believe.
				—Christian Globe


[Column 1]
	SPRING TIME AND VIOLETS.

	The sweet breath of the young maiden
Spring is on the air, and her pathway is
strewn with flowers, rare. She has come
in all her blushing beauty, and our hearts
go out to her in cheery welcome. The
whole machinery of nature is in motion;
all that was still and drear, gloomy and dis-
mal, in its outward, aspect, warms into
vigor and life at her approach. The swal-
lows fly back to the same old places in the
eaves, the porches and balconies, where be-
foretime they reared their fledgelings,, and
twitter away as familiarly as though they
knew the places and people rejoiced to see
them again. The robin sings in his sweet-
est strain to welcome the light.footed maid-
en in her flowery garb and fresh green
mantle, as she softly glides along o'er val-
ley, hill and plain, breathing fragrance ev-
erywhere, and revivifying earth-life in all
its varied forms. Her drapery is fringed
with evergreen, and fluttering white in the
breeze and sifting round her in cloudy
mists are the apple-blossoms the very per-
fection of sweetest perfume. Violets peep
up from their lowly beds, too modest to
open wide the[-]r bright eyes, but linger in
the shade of the soft grasses, till they hea

[Column 2]
the voices of the brooklets murmuring, the
chorus of the forest birds tumultuously
trilling glad notes, and then the bright-
eyed violets whisper softly to the forget-
me-nots she approaches and the gentle
breeze faintly wafts their sweet odors, like
a messenger of welcome. Daisies and lilies
nod to each other and bend gracefully as
she passes by.
	All nature gives evidence of some great
change, some life-giving power that mor-
tals comprehend not, but name it mnst
have, and what title could be more signifi-
cant of the processes that are going forward
in earth's realms than Spring?
	Gentle maiden, thou hast been most gra-
cious in thy favors, for earlier than they
were wont the roses bud and lilacs bloom;
profusely hast thou scattered garlands of
woodland flowers and wreaths of trailing
evergreens; loyally didst thou bequeath
thy heritage of bloom in the merry May-
day festivities. And the birds, who ever
wait thy coming and watch for the first
tender leaves ere they begin to weave their
nests, are pouring forth their highest notes
not only in the orchard and meadow, but
"in the heart of the dim old woods."
	Many are the pleasures the pretty maid-
en brings and scatters round our pathway;
how joyously we welcome her fair young
face, on which the sunshine lingers long
and tenderly. No burning heat, no scorch-
ing rays, but subdued by the gentleness of
her modest manner, the sun is like a bashful
young lover who takes his cue from the
freaks and fancies of his lady-love. Beau-
teous maiden, we welcome thee to our moun-
tain home; we are better for thy coming, for
all things brighten in the sunshine of thy
smiles. We greet thee proudly! for thou
bringest us royal blessings—in thy hand is
the wand of enchantment, that clothes the 
whole [-]arth in freshness and beauty, and
opens up the fountains of water, that give life
to all animate nature. We talk to thee, and
thou answerest us in the voices of birds, and
trees, and rills, and flowers; these speak to
the heart pathetically, and impart a con-
sciousness of the inherent germ that warms
iuto being through auspicious influences,
but stinted and chilled by winter's frost
and snow lies dormant. Thou teachest us
many lessons, and thy methods are simple
and grand, and we may learn of thee if we
will, for thou art most gentle towards earth's
children. There's not a footprint thou hast
made but bears the impress of a living
power inherited from God, the genuine
stamp of Him, Who lives and moves in all
things by his infinity.
	Who does not love the Spring and the
crown of glory that she wears so regally?
Let me see, her jewels are the flowers—the
violet, it is suggestive of modesty; the
forget-me-not is memory; the rose of love;
the pansy of thoughts, be they sad or gay;
the water lily of grace; all these and many
more she brings to the laps of the fresh
young maidens who wait for her with eager
anticipation, knowing that she has been a
long journey far over the seas. Year after
year our Father sends us this sweet messen-
ger, and should we be forgetful of the ten-
der love and devotion manifested in the
harmony and order of the seasons? And
while we sew the seeds in springtime, let
us engraft into our hearts the moral lesson
of good seed sown in good ground, that
shall spring up and yield an abundant har-
vest in our hearts and the hearts of our
children, and thank the Great Creator for
the beautiful methods of instruction in wis-
dom, faith and hope vouchsafed to us
through the poetry of Springtime.
							AUNT EM.


[For the EXPONENT.
	WOMAN’S VOICE.

	After listenting to the reports of the last
General Conference, I cannot help reflecting
upon the wise providences of God with re-
gard to the Latter-day work. Who is there
among the Latter-day Saints that cannot
see the great and mighty work that eventu-
ally w[-]ll be brought about through that so
much despised principle called plural mar-
riage. How honored are the women of
the Latter-day Saints, to bear the souls of
the men and women who will build up the
kingdom of God in these last days. Not-
withstanding the power of the destroyer,
the rapid increase of children that have
been born in Zion in the last few years is a
testimony to every honest lover of truth
that “the stone the builder rejected will
become the head of the corner.”
	How careful we ought to be to train the
minds of the rising generation, to give
them a correct understanding of the duties
and obligations that will rest upon them.
Let us as mothers be alive to our responsi-
bilities, by setting them an example that is
worthy of imitation. I think our Gentile
neighbors are helping the work along a
great deal in trying to stop the practice of
plural marriage. I feel like saying, Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do.
They can never do us any harm. I believe
these things are necessary to keep us on
our guard against the hour of temptation,
and remind us of the covenants we have
made to our Heavenly Father. They can-
not realize that our spirits have been re-
served for this great Latter-day work; they
are envious toward us because they cannot,
help themselves. Our help is in the God
of Jacob; we have proved Him to be our
friend when we have been true to Him and
true to ourselves. Let us show to our ene-
mies our integrity and confidence in God
the Eternal Father, and they will hide
their faces in shame. I never trouble about
the plans and devices of the wicked against
us, for it will all recoil upon themselves,
and if they do not believe it now, if they
wait a little while then they will realize
the truth of it. Our Lord and Master said
when he was on the earth, that through
much tribulation we should enter his king-
dom. Let us as mothers in Israel never be
found, either in public or private, speaking
evil, or using any influence against the de-
signs of the Almighty, for if we do we
shall surely feel the chastening rod; and 
better it would have been for us if we had
never known for ourselves the will of God
concerning us. If we wish to receive the
reward of the faithful we must be true and
faithful ourselves; we must not stand still
and think we have done all that is required
of us, each day as long as we live in mor-
tality we will always have outside influ-
ences to contend with, until we entirely
overcome ourselves and bring our wills into
perfect sujection to the will of our Father
in Heaven. The sooner we do this the less
power our enemies will have over us. The
Lord has promised that no weapon that is
formed against us shall prosper. Sisters,
let us be thankful that our lot is cast with
the Saints of God, and let us strive to dis-
charge the duties of life honorably before
the Lord, and all will be well with us.
		SARAH LAYTON.
Kaysville, April 21, 1879.


﻿THE new Secretary for the Territory of
Utah Arthur L. Thomas arrived in this
city on the 12th inst. He took the oath of
office the following day. The oath was ad-
ministered by Judge Emerson.


42		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1879.


[Column 1]
﻿PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION.

RECEPTION GIVEN TO GEN. D. H. WELLS.

	Never has there been such a grand public
demonstration by this people as that given to
Gen. Wells on his release from the Peniten-
tiary, Tuesday, May 6. The people were in-
dignant—words are too weak to express the
feelings that were aroused in the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints by his sentence to two days'
imprisonment and $100 fine—for not betraying
that which he held more sacred than his life.
His words in the Court Room on that momen-
tous occasion will be handed down to posterity,
and his name will forever be cherished by all
who reverence and honor integrity to principle.
"It has ever been and is a principle of my life
never to betray a friend, a brother, my country,
my God or my religion."
	At a large meeting of the brethren and sis-
ters held in the Council House, Sunday, May
4, after the services in the Tabernacle, commit-
tees were appointed to arrange a programme
of the proceedings: Mayor Lit[-]le, Hon.
John Sharp, Col. Theo. McKean, Hon. Wm.
Jennings, Col. John R. Winder, Marshal A.
Burt, Geo. Crismon, Esq.

ASSISTANT COMMITTEES:

	Judge Elias Smith and Col. McKean for Salt
Lake County;
	First Presidents of Seventies, Presidents and
Counselors of the Quorums of Priests, Teachers
and Deacons;
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Hannah
T. King, Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard for Relief Societies;
	Messrs. Junius F. Wells, Joseph H. Felt,
George C. Lambert, John W. Taylor, R. R.
Badger, M. H. Hardy, Young Men's Improve-
ment Associations;
	Mrs. Louie Felt and Clara Conrad; for Young
Ladies' Societies;
	Messrs. George Goddard, Wm. Willis, S. L.
Evans, F. A. Mitchell, L. W. Richards, J. C.
Cutler, for the Sunday Schools;
	C. W. Penrose, John T. Caine, Miss Annie
Wells, Jos. A. West, J. C. Graham, Geo C.
Lambert, A. W. Winberg, editors and re[-]re-
sentatives of the press;
	J. C. Sanberg and Henry Reiser for the Scan
dinavian and German citizens.
	Order of p[-]ocession: Band. Pr[-]s. Taylor
and escort. Territorial, County and C[-]ty offi-
cers, Mayors and City Councils from various
places, and invited guests. Repr[-]sentatives of
the press. Salt Lake City fire bigade. Band.
Relief Societies with banners. Band. Sab-
bath Schools with banners. Band. Mutual
Improvement and Retrenchment Societies
with banners. Band. Seventies, High Priests,
Elders. Bishops and the lesser Priesthood

[Column 2]
with banners. Band. Scandinavian and Ger-
man citizens with banners. Band. General
citizens on foot and on horseback.
	The trains from the North and the South
brought a laage number of leading citizens and
people from the counties adjacent to Salt Lake
Co.
	At 9 o'clock a. m. the carriages to convey
Pres. John Taylor and escort were drawn up in
the vicinity of the President's office, and start-
ed out to receive Gen. Wells. First was the
Tenth Ward Brass Band in uniform, in a large
band-carriage drawn by four spanking gr[-]y
horses. Next came a carriage with the Com-
mittee, then a barouche drawn by four white
horses, containing Pres. John Taylor, Mayor
F. Little, Bishop Edward Hunter, Pres. Angus
M. Cannon. Next, carriages with Elders C. C.
Rich, Lorenzo Snow, F. D. Richa[-]ds, Jo[-]eph
F. Smith and Albert Carrington of the Apos-
tles. After these, carriages with the Mayors
and City Councils of this and ten other muni-
cipalities, Territorial and County officers, re-
presentatives of the press, the various quorums
of the Priesthood, Relief Societies, Young
Men's and Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciations, with several bands of music and a
long train of carriages containing ladies and
gentlemen, followed by a company of horse-
men. The co[-]tege proceeded to Gen. Burton's
farm, where Gen. Wells had spent the night
after his release from imprisonment. Arriving
at Gen. Burton's, Gen. Wells was g[-]eeted by
the party in the following

EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEECH MADE BY PRESI-
DENT JOHN TAYLOR.

	President Wells: In behalf of the commu-
nity who feel outraged by the treatment you
have received, I propose to pr[-]sent to you the
confidence, the respect, the honor and the es-
teem of the people whose hearts, feelings and
affections are with you.
	We do not come here to interfere with any
matters pertaining to the action of courts; we
leave an intelligent public to act upon that
matter, and to judge according to their wisdom
and discretion. But we have come to exhibit
to you our esteem and to show you that whilst
you are true to your friends, your principles,
your country and your God, that your friends
are equally true to you. You see exhibited be-
fore you the spontaneous feeling of this vast
people who have come to meet and to honor
the man who rather than submit to betray his
friends, his country, and his God, would per-
mit himself to be deprived of liberty and be
immured in prison. We have come, General
Wells, to wipe away a stain sought to be heaped
upon you by the bigoted, unreflecting and
thoughtless, and this demonstration is the
spontaneous impulse and action of a generous,
patriotic, kind-hearted and friendly people.
For this purpose we have assembled here to-
day; and in behalf of this whole community,
I tender to you our sincere regards and our
most heartfelt sympathy."
	To which the following impromptu response
was made by

GEN. D. H. WELLS.

	"I will simply say that I should feel exceed-
ingly sorry for myself if I felt, for a single mo-
ment, that any of my friends supposed, or
could entertain the idea, that I could do other-
wise than I have done. I would be sorry for
myself to feel, or to even think for a moment,
that I could swerve from my integrity to the
covenant which I have had the privilege, yes,
the inestimable privilege, of making with my
God. I can well afford to suffer bonds, fines
and imprisonment, and even death if necessa-
ry—which by the way has no terrors for me—

[Column 3]
but to forfeit my fellowship with you, my
brethren, or a single particle of that confidence
which is reposed in me by the people of God,
through violating the sacred and holy cove-
nants we have entered into, I could not afford.
That would indeed be a source of sorrow and
regret, not only through time but for all eter-
nity.
	My treatment at the hands of the United
States officers during my imprisonment has
been civil and courte[-]us.
	I feel happy and well, and am rejoiced to
meet you, though I did not expect any such
demonstration as this. I thank you heartily;
but not, however, so much for myself as the
expression of your feelings to sustain the prin-
ciple. I knew that you are my friends, and
that you are the friends of the Most High God;
and I pray that I may ever be worthy of your
confidence and esteem, and be the friend of the
Lord. I will not detain you; but in the fulness
of my heart I say, God bless you forever; and
again thank you for this expression of your
kindness and love."

	Gen. Wells entered the carriage with Pres.
Taylor, the most spirited music was played by
the bands in attendance, and the cortege start-
ed for the city at a fast trot. On East Temple
Street were formed in order the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Improvement Associa-
tions, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops,
Priests, Teachers, Deacons; the City Fire Bri-
gade in uniform, Scandinavian and German
citizens besides a vast concourse of people, on
the streets,and filling the porches and balconies,
and standing on the roofs. Stores were closed
and hundreds of flags, banners, and stream-
ers, with appropriate mottoes and sentiments
fluttered in the breeze, giving enthusiasm to
the populace. It was an immense gathering;
never was there such a day in Israel. Over three
hundred carriages were in the procession, be-
sides the long line of people on foot. They pro-
ceeded to the large Tabernacle, which was soon
filled in every part with people, and many thou-
sands could not gain admittance. A magnificent
sight, never to be forgotten by those who were
present, Seven bands of music were seated in
the choir; banners, flags and mottoes were ar-
ranged around the gallery; and when Gen.
Wells appeared upon the stand the cheers were
deafening; ladies waved their handkerchiefs,
banners and streamers moving, added to the
general enthusiasm, which for a few moments
was unrestrained. After inspiring music by
the several bands, the congregation was called
to order by Pres. Taylor, and Elder F. D.
Richards offered up, in behalf of all assembled,
a most eloquent, inspiring and significant
prayer, dedicating the meeting and all assem-
bled there to the Lord. Closed by saying,
May the doings of this day be sanctified to the
good of many people; and we ascribe all honor,
praise and power to Thee O God now and for-
ever, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer.
Amen.

BRIEF SPEECH DELIVERED BY COUNSELOR D,
H. WELLS.

	My Friends, my Brethren, my Sisters and
Fellow Citizens;—I sincerely thank you for
this demonstration of your love, sympathy
and respect: probably this is a demonstration
of such a character as never was seen before.
No words can express the indignation and re-
sentment which burns within our bosoms, un-
utterable! Has it come to this that in free
America a man cannot keep his covenant with
his God, nor worship him in accordance with
the dictates of his own conscience without
suffering the penalties of bonds, fines, im-
prisonment and death? Oh tell it not in


[Column 1]
Britain, nor publish it in the streets of Rome
or Spain! Acts speak louder and are more ex-
pressive than words. Therefore, after again
thanking you, in the name of insulted freedom,
and in accordance with the dictates of wis-
dom, we will close these proceedings and re-
tire in silence to our happy and undisturbed
homes. And now may the peace of heaven
and the blessing of Israel’s God rest in rich
abundance upon you all, and upon every one
whose soul responds to the sound, the echoes
of truth and integrity, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR

Delivered an address expressing the most
kindly feelings, and lofty sentiments.
	We are not assembled here to-day for any
other purposes than those of peace. We have
no quarrel with our Government; we have no
quarrel with our Judiciary, nor with the
United States; we have no quarrel with any
people upon the face of the earth. Our mis-
sion is, “Peace on earth and good will to all’
men.” And although men have [-]ought to in-
terfere with our religious faith and to control
our consciences, it is understood by us that
God and His laws have never been palatable
to the great mass of mankind generally. And
therefore if men in the different ages have had
to endure persecutions and prosecutions for the
sake of the eternal truths of God, it is nothing
strange that we should have to partake a little
of the same thing.
	We have met here, however, to welcome our
friend and brother, President Daniel H Wells,
to our midst; to evince a feeling that exists
and permeates among the Latter-day Saints
and that dwells in their bosoms, as well as in
the bosoms of all honorable men, namely, that
of maintaining and sustaining their friends
that dare be true to God, to their country and
its institutions, to their religion and their
friends; who have the moral courage and dare
to act upon the principles of honor in the face
of narrow prejudice, proscriptions, penalties,
and the evils which even honorable men have
to meet in life, frequently, from the hands of
those whose positions ought to raise them
above the narrow limits of bigotry and in-
tolerance; and knowing what the feelings of
the Latter-day Saints were in relation to those
things, we wished them to be gathered to-
gether to evince that respect to General Wells
which, independent of his honorable position
for years in our midst, his conduct merits. We
wish to evince a disposition to sustain correct
principles under all circumstances.
* * * * * *
	Do not then, my brethren, let us have any
quarrel with these people. Our mission is
“peace on earth and good will to men.” And
if men are in error we will try our utmost to
correct them; if they are weak and ignorant
or tyrannical, we will try to bear with
them and then leave them in the hands of
God, for we can afford to wait. There is a God
that rules in the heavens. There is an old say-
ing, that “the mills of the gods grind slowly,
but that they grind exeeding fine.” We can
wait the time, the Lord’s just time in relation
to th[-]se matters, placing ourselves in His
hands. We appeal to the great God for re-
dress, and let all Israel say “amen!” (the vast
concourse of people re ponded, “amen!”) We
can afford to treat all people right whether
they can us or not.
* * * * * *
	We will not try to place ourselves in op-
position to the government, but stand shoulder
to shoulder with all true patriots and lovers of
their country and its institutions; as long as

[Column 2]
there are any to maintain .these, principles we
will be with them and on the side of right.
Amen. (Great applause.)	
	After the speeches were over there was music
by a martial band, “See the conquering hero
comes.” Col. John Sharp, of the committee,
said there had been preparations made to have
a cold lunch in the Tabernacle for invited
guests and visitors from the country. Benedic-
tion by Elder Joseph F. Smith.
	The bands were playing while the people
dispersed. About 10,000 people took part in
the procession, and 15,000 more were spectators.
	In the evening Gen. Wells was serenaded at
his home by the Tabernacle Choir and Scandi-
navian vocal club. Pres. John Taylor, Elder
Joseph F. Smith, the Committee of ladies and
other frends called upon him and participated
in the enjoyment of a pleasant social enter-
tainment with the family.
	The day was a most remarkable one, and the
memory of that day's occurrences will live in
the hearts of the Latter-day Saints to the end
of time. It is impossible to do justice to it in
the few paragraphs we are able to publish, but
it will be written of in story and in song, and
will be a theme worthy the author.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		243


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SENATE Judiciary Committee consid-
ered the nomination of Corbin as Chief Jus-
tice for Utah Territory, and decided to report
adversely, unless the president should with-
draw the nomination.

	THE CASE of Elder G[-]orge Reynolds, in
which the Latter day Saints are so deeply in-
terested, has recently been receiving direct at-
tention from the Supreme Court of the United
States. The decision is, "And that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Supreme Court (Utah), with the instruc-
tions to cause the sentence of the District Court
to be set aside and a new one entered on the
verdict in all respects like that before imposed,
except so far as it requires the imprisonment
to be at hard labor."

	THE "CARTHAGE Republican" (an Illinois
paper) states that Mrs. Emma Bidamon, died
in Nauvoo on the 30th of April. Among the
Latter-day Saints, in days gone by, she was
familiarly known as "Sister Emma," wife oi
the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was consid-
ered rather a remarkable woman, possessing
great influence and unusually strong charac-
teristics, which if properly directed, as in the 
ea[-]ly days of this Church, would have made
her name illustrious in the history of the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints down to the end
of time.

	THIS MORNING our beloved sisters Pres. E.
R. Snow and Pres. M. I. Horne start on a tour
to some of the settlements in Sanpete and Se-
vier Counties. They will meet with the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A in the settle-
ments upon their way, transacting such busi-
ness with these institutions as may be essential
and practicable; also organizing branches of
the Deseret Silk Association and Primary As-
sociations. They expect to reach Richfield to
attend the Stake Conference, which will be
held on the 24th and 25th of this month.

	DR. ELLIS R. Sh'pp has just returned from
a professional visit in the North, and by per-
sonal observation has become cognizant of the 
increasing need of woman physicians—women
thoroughly edu[-]ate and trained for the impor-
tant duties of attending the sick and ailing,
especially of their own sex. She desires to use
her energies in meeting this demand by giving

[Column 2]
instructions both theoretical and practical.
The course will consist of two terms, six
months each, with five lessons a week. The
first lecture will be given on the 26th inst.
Any further information can be obtained by
correspondence, or personal communication at
her residence 11th Ward, Salt Lake City.

	WE HAVE learned by letter of the sudden
death of a young lady whom we met and
formed a pleasant acquaintance with while in
Washington. Miss Minnie Nason died early
in April last of congestion of the lungs. At
noon she was bright and happy, and between
five and six o'clock she was dead; she took a
chill, and congestion of the lungs followed so
quickly she was gone in a few moments. She
was indeed a lovely girl, graceful, sensitive,
refined, and possessed that charming good na-
ture that imparted a kindly feeling to all. We
sympathize deeply with her mother, aunts and
relatives, for we know how deep the wound
must be, but we can only say to them, believe
"Our Father doeth all things well,"

	WE LEFT this city Wednesday morning,
April 30, in company with Miss E. R. Snow,
President of L. D. S. womens' organiza-
tions. We traveled through some of the
settlements North, in Utah and a part of
Idaho called Malad Valley, to visit the sisters'
societies in that vicinity. At Brigham City
Mrs. H. A. Snow, Pres. of R. S. Box Elder
Stake, her counselor S. P. Booth, Sec. Mary E.
Snow and Pres. Harriet Huntsucker joined our 
party. Together we visited several towns in
Box Elder and Oneida Counties, re-organized
two Relief Societies and organized five Primary
Ass[-]ciations. We returned to Ogden in time
to attend the Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake held May 9th and 10th in the Ogden
Tabernacle. We were all most cordially
welcomed and hospitably entertained; the
brethren and sisters came in wagons from one
settlement to another to hear the sisters talk.
We intend to publish notes made during our
absence, but have not space in this issue.

	THIS NUMBER completes the seventh volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. This little paper
has now become widely known, and has en-
tered many a home where a Mormon woman
would scarcely be received at all. It is a power
in the hands of Latter-day Saint women,
which should be wielded for good. The EXPO-
NENT speaks brave words for women in encour-
aging them in the elevation of their sex. It is
also a medium through which the organizations
among the sisters are represented and thus be-
come interested in each others welfare and aid
and assist mutually in sustaining home indus-
tries, and in educating the youth of Zion in all
that pertains to practical usefulness and spirit-
ual culture. Sisters, you who appreciate your
position, you cannot afford to be without the
EXPONENT. It will silently strengthen you
mothers, sisters and daughters in your labors
of love. We have ample opportunity of know-
ing that this little paper is doing a good mis-
sionary work for Mormonism. We trust our
patrons will renew their subscriptions prompt-
ly.


FOUR ACCOMPLISHED sisters, Clara, Hilda,
Ellen and Henriette Montalba—of Spanish
blood—live in London. The youngest,
Henriette, is a charming sculptor; the other
three are successful painters,—Miss Clara,
a pupil of Isabey, being especially remark-
able for her venetian scenes. There young
ladies are friends and favorites of the Prin-
cess Louise, and Misses Hilda and Henri-
ette Montalba have crossed the ocean at her
invitation, and are now visiting her at Ri-
deau Hall.


244		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MRS. GAGE'S SPEECH AT THE WASH-
INGTON CONVENTION.

UNITED STATES RIGHTS VERSUS STATES
RIGHTS.

	Mrs. Gage said, I have never so fully felt
the responsibility of the work in which we
are engaged as at the present time. Never
had such a feeling of solemnity, such a con-
ception of the vastness of our undertaking.
To lift the burden which for ages has
weighed down one-half of humanity, to
meet the wrongs, the accumulated suffer-
ing, the injustice of the world:—to combat
the unceasing prejudice which everywhere
meets the reformer. Fain would I stop
and rest,—shut my ears to the cry of sor-
rowing souls, and rest for the remainder of
my day[-]. But I cannot. The burden of
the world's wrongs is upon me. I cannot,
though I would, shut my eyes to the sor-
rows of the crushed ones of earth. Every-
where the great problems of poverty and
vice and crime rise before me, and remem-
bering the words of the good book regard-
ing the one who grasped the handle of the
plough and looked back, I feel that shrink
from it as I may, I must still work on.
	I shall speak upon the foundation princi-
ples of our government, which, without
conceit to myself, I can say are better un-
derstood by the ladies of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association, my associates
upon this platform, than by the statesmen
in yonder Capitol. These consist of per-
sonal, individual rights. It is a curious
anomaly in the history of the world that
the rights of property have always been
recognized before the rights of person.
The revolution had for its war-cry, "No
taxation without representation." What
our forefathers wanted was simply protec-
tion of property, and at the meeting of the 
first Congress, Washington indignantly dis-
claimed the intention of the colonists to
frame an independent government. The
English idea of rights has always been the
rights of property. Many persons are
amazed that the woman suffrage question.is
so much farther advanced in Great Britain
than in our own country, for women house-
holders, rate-payers, vote there at all muni-
cipal elections. But it is not themselves,
but property which votes. For instance, a
woman with several grown sons pays a cer-
tain rental for a house in which she lives
with these sons. She pays the rent and
she votes, but her sons not being rent-pay-
ers, do not vote. This is the action of the
law in Scotland and, I doubt not, in Eng-
land also. You see it is not the person who
votes, but the property. Our country start-
ed tnto govermental life under this idea of
property rights, and our nation is not yet
fully impregnated with its own true princi-
ples, which are the rights of person, indi-
vidual rights. I was looking through a
work issued by the International Peace So-
ciety, when I came upon a paragraph ex-
pressing surprise that although the time
was past when subjects were vassals whose
property and lives the sovereign could alike
use at his option, yet now when sovereigns
could not thus take the property of subjects
without the consent of their representatives
they could plunge the country into war to
which these subjects had not consented,
thus controlling their lives where they
could not their property. But this is ex-
plainable when we recognize the singular
fact permeating history, that property has
ever been held more sacred than person
and its rights secured before the rights of
person.

[Column 2]
	At the framing of the Constitution some
twelve years after our Declaration of In-
dependence, an effort was made on part of
certain delegates to allow States influence
in proportion to their property instead of
their population. It was argued that
States should not desire influence only in
proportion to the taxes they paid. But
this proposition was combatted by other
delegates who recognized the real princi-
ples of our government to be those of per-
sonal rights, and they argued that all per-
sons in a state of nature would have equal
right to representation at time of the first
formation of government, and that to allow
property to have greater representation
would be to make slaves of those not pos-
sessing property. So after much debate
the question was finally settled upon the
basis of personal rights; but still, such is
the influence of inherited tendencies: We
find our nation still governed, in great de-
gree, by these fancied rights of property.
We frequently hear men say, "I am will-
ing to have tax-paying women vote."
	In other words, these men are more En-
glish than Ameriean; they are more per-
meated with the rights of property than of
person.
	There is another American idea that is
not understood as it should be; this is, pro-
tection for the right of suffrage, and here
I shall endeavor to show you the principles
of the National Woman's Suffrage Associa-
tion, and their true accordance with the na-
tional idea of personal rights. What we
demand is national protection for national
citizens in the exercise of their right of vot-
ing, and this principle does not confine
itself to women, but applies equally to men.
United Stated rights is the next great ques-
tion to come before the nation. State
Rights we have heard of until we quite
thoroughly understand its demands, but it
is a singular anomaly in the carrying on of
our government that while the nation con-
trols all these minor questions of post-roads,
revenue, tariff, coinage of money, declara-
tion of peace and war, it allows the very
right of self government upon which it
stands as a nation, namely the suffrage, to
be under the control of the States.
	Experience has not yet taught the people
its danger, although the doctrine of State
Rights has been the Rock upon which the
nation has several times nearly foundered.
	Under the Confederatisn of 1778, (July 9,
1778, ratified by eight colonies,) before we
became the United States, * the doctrine of
State Rights was not primarily, a southern
one; it originated in New England, and as
far as fatherhood of this theory is concern-
ed, the North and not the South, must bear
the burden. Calhoun learned its first prin-
ciples in a northern college, that of Yale,
in Connecticut, from President Dwight,
and in a Massachusetts law office, that of
Theophilus Parsons, he was taught it in an
intensified form to take back with him to
South Carolina.
	Women interested themselves in it as
well as men. Miss Pinckney, the only
lady who ever received the honor of a pub-
lic funeral in this country, wrote so vigor-
ously in its favor that it was said the Nulli-
fication Party of South Carolina was con-
solidated by the nib of a lady's pen.
	Miss Pinckney is an illustrious example
of the power, irresponsible though it may
be, that ever has been wielded by woman
in political affairs. To her we may look
back as one of the chief instruments in
bringing about our present remarkable po-
itical complications. As the invention of-
the Cotton Gin was said to have perpetuata
ed slavery, (and its invention was due to a

[Column 3]
woman) so Miss Pinckney's powerful writ-
ings fixed the public thought in the line of
State Rights. She gathered all the fleeting
impressions brought by Calhoun from New
England, consolidated them into a harmoni-
ous whole, and the real State's Rights party
was born. It is always acknowledged that
not the originator of an idea is so truly re-
sponsible for its fatherhood as is the one
who brings it prominently before the world.
This was Miss Pinckney's position as re-
gards the State Rights question. It was
begotten in New England, born in South
Carolina, and reared to manhood by Miss
Pinckney.
	Despite all that man says, despite all the
opposition she meets, woman will play her
part in politics; it may be well, it may be
ill, but always with power. From Mercy
Otis Warren, of Massschusetts, down
through Miss Pinckney, of South Carolina,
to the latest by-play of Agnes Jenks, it is
impossible for our country—or any other—
to eliminate women from politics.
	The question comes down finally to this
one: Shall women be endowed with a re-
sponsible power, or shall she continue to
exercise her rights in an unrecognized and
irresponsible way whose results may bring
harm that responsible recognized power
cannot do?
	It is a matter of regret that women do
not thoroughly inform themselves of wo-
man's powerful influence in the past, upon
politics. At least let them recognize her
power in our own country in the past and
to-day, where we not only have a Jenks
but a "Gail Hamilton" exposing frauds, and
a western wife and daughter openly recog-
nized as obtaining through their influence
a senatorial seat for husband and father.
	But to go back. In 1782 Rhode Island re-
fused compliance with the recommenda-
tion of congress for a tariff dnty on imports
and prize goods, and through the speaker,
Hon. Wm. Bradford, of the Lower House
of Assembly of that State, made their ob-
jections known to congress, under three
heads, which it is not necessary to present
here.
	This action of Rhode Island led to pro-
longed debate and finally to a recommenda-
tion from congress that the States should
invest that body with greater power for
collecting revenue and prosecuting the
war, than it then possessed. So permeated
was the confederacy with the idea of colo-
nial supremacy—remember that although
this was two years after the Declaration
of Independence the union was only a con-
federation of the colonies, not yet having
grown to either the stature of States or of a 
constitutional government—so thoroughly
was this separated sovereignty idea a part
of the confederate idea, that the proposition
to invest congress with greater power was
only agreed to by four of the thirteen ccu-
federate colonies, and yet it was an ob-
viously necessary suggestion provided the
union, such as it was, was to be preserved.
	This non-compliance with what was need-
ed to establish and confirm the nation
again led to active debate. From revenue,
public debt, and the security of property
rights, the debate took wider range, and
the controversy soon based itself upon the
security of personal rights. Then were ut-
tered these memorable words "that it had
ever been the pride and boast of America
that the rights for which she contended
were the rights of human nature" and "that
the citizens of the United States were re-
sponsible for the greatest trust ever confid-
ed to a political society," and that it was
for the people of the United States, by
whose will, and for whose benefit, the Fed-


[Column 1]

eral Government was instituted, to decide
whether they would support their rank as
a nation.
	My own State of New York was the first
to acknowledge the necessity of stronger
power in the national hands. In July, 1782,
the Legislature of this State in a series of
nine concurrent resolutions, pointed out
the defects of the Confederacy, or State
Rights system, and proposed a general con-
vention of the United Colonies for the pur-
pose of amending the form of government.
	Thus, barely two years had elapsed be-
fore the actual necessities of the new-form-
ed republic proved the need of stronger
power in the hands of the general govern-
ment. The subject. however, passed, and
not until 1786, upon a resolution of the
House of Delegates of Virginia, appointing
commissioners to meet with commission-
ers from such other States as might appoint
them, did this very vital question press
itself upon the people with sufficient force
for action.
	In September, 1786, duly appointed com-
missioners from New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware and Virginia, two
of them Southern and three of them slave
states, met to discuss this now most impor-
tant question. The delegates from these
five states proposed a general convention
of the states to meet in Philadelphia. which
convention framed our National Constitu-
tion.
	Rhode Island, as she was the first state
to exhibit state-right tendencies, was the
last state to ratify the constitution, which
was to take from her all power to question
the right of the United States to lay a duty
upon imported goods. But at various
times and for various pretences, since that
memorable refusal of Rhode Island in 1778,
to be bound by national authority, down to
the present hour, has this conflict between
state and national authority risen. Not
alone to-day, in regard to any supposed
election frauds or intimidation in South
Carolina or Louisana in regard to the
voting of black men, but up in Wyoming,
a territory which nine years ago secured to
women the right of voting, is there a
conflict between state and national power.
I shall not go back to the civil war which
you so well know, but I can be permitted
to refer to some of its results, as it is a sub-
ject of discussion in congress.
	Senator Blaine's recent speech struck the
key-note of Republican policy--mind you,
I say policy, not principle, as far as the
black male citizen is concerned.
	I must be allowed to review Mr. Blaine's
speech. Mr. Blaine is not only the Repub-
lican Senatorial mouth-piece, as far as the
south is concerned, but he is also consid-
ered a presidential candidate for 1880, and
as such, is supposed to stand at the very
foundation stones of the Republican party.
	He declares the issue is not one of mere
sentiment for the rights of the negro, but
one of more portentous magnitude, and that
is, whether the white voter of the North
shall be equal to the white voter of the
South in shaping the policy and fixing the
doctrines of the country.
	There are two curious features to us wo-
men which rise in looking at this speech of-
Senator Blaine. First, we remember his
going through the country in 1872, declar-
ing that the 14th amendment secured the
rights of all citizens to the ballot. He did
not qualify his assertion either by the
words "white" or "male." He simply said
the rights of all citizens were thus secured
by this amendment.
	I came to Washington that following
winter and with the remembrance of this

[Column 2]

speech recently delivered in my own city
of Syracuse, I sought an interview with
Mr. Blaine. I said to him, "Mr. Blaine,
inasmuch as the 14th amendment declares
all persons born or naturalized in the Uni-
ted States to be citizens of the United
States, and inasmuch as the women of the
United States were either born here or have
been naturalized here, they are necessarily
citizens of the United States. You admit
that. Very well, then, in your Syracuse
speech you declared the 14th amendment
secured the right of suffrage to all citizens;
now why are you not consistent? Why do
you not uphold the voting right of women
citizens by a speech in congress?"
	I need not say to you Washington people
what politicians are, for you all know how
easily they dodge a leading question, and
Mr. Blaine dodged my question in a very
peculiar way for he invited me to his house
to see Miss Dodge, otherwise known as
Gail Hamilton. [Laughter and applause.]
So, of course, you may rest assured I
read Mr. Blaine's speech of December 10th,
with an appreciative eye.
	Now while Mr. Blaine was so emphati-
cally pointing out the intimidation of the
black United States citizens of the South
by State Rights men, he forgot to mention
how the United States itself was at that
moment and for years had been oppressing
certain of its own white citizens of the
North.
	He forgot to say that the United States
is inconsistent with itself.
	Although, theoretically, the power over
the suffrage is held to be in the hands of
the States alone, yet practically, the United
States has endowed whatever class it pleas-
ed with the suffrage. Chief Justice Waite
in his decision in the Minor vs. Happersatt
case, against woman's right to vote under
the Fourteenth Amendment, declared the
United States had no voters. But this as-
sertion was false upon the very face of it.
	First, every enfranchised male slave had
the ballot secured him under United States
law, a law which overrode all state provi-
sions against color. At time of ratification
of the last amendments, the State of New
York possessed a color property qualifica-
tion of two hundred and fifty dollars. The
moment these amendments were ratified,
that law became dead on the statute book.
The New York Legislature did not repeal
it. The United States repealed this prop-
erty prohibition, by creating a class of
United States voters out of colored men.
So here is one class of United States voters,
and a clear mistake on the part of Judge
Waite.
	Second, every Southern man disfranchised
because of having taken part in the war,
and who has since been granted amnesty,
has again been made a voter through United
States law; all such men then become
United States voters. Here is a second
class of United States voters, and a second
mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Third, the naturalized foreigner secures
his right to vote under United States law,
and cannot vote unless he first becomes a
United States citizen, or announces his in-
tention of so becoming. In Missouri, Ne-
braska, and some other States, the declara-
tion of such intention permits him to vote.
This is a State regulation, but the fact of
his United States citizenship must in some
form first exist. In the naturalized man is
a third class of United States voters. With
one and the same hand he at the same mo-
ment picks up his naturalization papers and
his ballot. It matters not what the state
law may be, the foreigner secures his vote
under United States law. And here is a

[Column 3]

third class of United States voters and a
third mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Fourth, the 39th or 40th Congress took a
step farther than this, passing a law that
all foreigners who had served in and been
honorably discharged from the army, should
possess the right to vote, even though they
had not previously filed intention of natur-
alization. Thus at the time of Judge
Waite's decision we already had four classes
of United States voters; the black man, the
amnestied man, the naturalized man, and
the foreigner who fought in the union
army. So you see we already possess four
distinct classes of United States voters, and
when woman demands that her right to the
use of the ballot shall be secured by United
States law, she has four distinguished
precedents, and so far as it has gone, the
United States has exercised its rightful
power. We ask that it should be consistent
with itself and secure the ballot to women.
	While theoretically denying its control
over the suffrage, the United States in
many ways besides those mentioned, prac-
tically acknowledges its possession of this
right.
	In Miss Anthony's case. She was not
prosecuted by the State of New York for
voting. That great State took no action at
all in the matter, it was the general govern-
ment which thrust itself forward and took
up the question. If the United States has
no control over the suffrage, then Miss An-
thony's trial was a clear interference of the
United States with the right of states.
And so great was this interference, it is be-
lieved a judge was especially appointed to
try her case, who left Washington with his
verdict in his pocket already written. Let
none of my audience forget this trial, for in
the future it will be looked upon as one of
the great State Trials of the world, for as
we have shown, if states have the sole con-
trol of the suffrage, there was interference
in the rights of the State of New York by
her trial; and if United States citizens of
any class have a right to be protected in the
use of the ballot, then the United States
very flagrantly and tyrannously interfered
in Miss Anthony's individual right as a
citizen of the United States.
	Then let us look at the Territory of Wyo-
ming. Much has of late been said in regard
to woman not making use of the ballot
there. I am not careful to answer that
statement. I care little about it one way or
the other, as long as her right to vote is
not interfered with. It will be time to re-
quire all women to vote when we have such
law for men; until then let each voter re-
irain from voting at his or her own option;
it is not the vital question. But there is a
point connected with woman's voting in
Wyoming that is well worthy of our con-
sideration. That is, the interference of the
United States with the concomitants of this
right. For a time the women of Wyoming
sat upon juries, and the fact was heralded
over the country that thieves, gamblers,
murderers fled the country rather than fall
into the hands of these women jurors. The
first conviction for a murder in that Terri-
tory, not committed in self-defense came
from a woman jury.
	But of late we have ceased hearing of
women jurors. And why?  Because wo-
man's sacred jury right has been interfered
with by the United States.
	The Marshal of the Territory, an officer
appointed by the United States govern-
ment, has absolutely refused to place the
names of women on the jury lists. Conse-
quently the women of Wyoming are denied
the exercise of this right by United States
power.


Whether the Marshal has been ordered to
omit the names of women, as Judge Hunt
was ordered to convict in Miss Anthony's
case, we do not know and it does not signi-
fy. The duty of the United States is none
the less clear; the territories are in an es-
pecial way the wards of the nation, and
should be protected in all territorial rights.
The Territory of Wyoming having secured
to women the exercise of their right of 
voting, it remains the duty of the general
government to protect them in the exercise
of concomitant rights, of which the jury is
one.
	This deprivation of woman's jury rights
in Wyoming is not only an United States in-
terference with her political rights, but also
an interference with her industrial rights.
It is a well-known fact that some women
earned their first independent dollar by sit-
ting in the jury box. And whatever inter-
feres with woman's industrial rights helps
to force her down, down, down, to those
depths where want of bread has forced so
many women into the gutters of shame.
This is a question of morals as well as a
question of industrial and political rights.
Every adverse touch upon a person's politi-
cal rights touches a hundred other rights
adversely.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		245


246		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	Died on the 5th of April 1879. Mrs. Amanda
Susanna Chamberlain, wife of John A. Cham-
berlain. Deceased was the daughter of Wm. and
M. A. E. Watmough, the latter a lady well
known in this community; was born in Wi-
gan, Lancashire, May 18, 1844, and, her moth-
er being a Latter-day Saint, was baptized and
confirmed when eight years old, by Bishop
Cairns.
	She moved with her parents to Boston in
1856; remained there for six years, and gradu-
ated with honors from the Welles School. In
the June of 1862 she came to Utah and was
married on the 29th of December, 1864. They
resided in Cedar Fort, Utah County, ten years
and then moved to a remote district about ten
miles from Deseret, on the Sevier. She was a 
faithful Saint, a true wife and mother, and 
leaves a husband and three little children to
mourn her loss.


HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty of
sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as true of
babies as it is of grown children. If the infant
is accustomed from its birth to sleep from six
o'clock at night till daylight, the habit of carly
sleep will be formed, and the mother may have
all the evenings to herself.
	If the baby sleeps all night, a long morning
nap will naturally come about dinner-time, after
which the child, except when very young, should
be kept awake until six o'clock. Preseverance
in this routine will soon result in securing quiet
evenings for both the child and the parent.
	Some mothers have a long season every morn-
ing and every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is entirely
unnecessary. An infant can be accustomed, by
a few days' training, to go to sleep itself for a
morning nap as well as for a longer rest at night.
	A mother has duties to herself as well as to her
offspring. While she should exercise a constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort, she
should secure rest and recreation for herself. In
no other way can she keep fresh in feeling and


buoyant in spirit. Nothing is so wearing as the
unceasing tending of a fretful baby.
	Every means should be employed to aid the
child in taking care of itself and giving as little
trouble as possible. It may learn in babyhood to
amuse itself with toys or by watching movements
going on around it.
	Fashion as well as good sense requires infants'
dresses to be made with long sleeves, and high
in the neck. Fashion requires children of all ages
to be warmly clad. Flannel should encase the
whole body, with the exception of the head and
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in infants is
the nakedness of their necks and arms.
	Regularity in feeding is as important as either
of the other requisites. Babies cry as often from
being fed too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense in this
matter and not force food into a baby's stomach
for every little complaint it makes.
	Children of three or four years old need much
more sleep than they usually have. For irritable
and nervous children sleep it is a specific, and it
can be secured to them only by the force of habit.
Many light forms of disease may be cured by
keeping a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read this
article experiment upon these few suggestions,
and we are sure they will have many an hour in
the nursery for reading and thought.—Ex.


NEITHER days nor lives can be made
holy by doing nothing in them. The best
prayer at the beginning of a day is, that we
may not lose its moments; and the best
grace before meat is, the consciousness that
we have justly earned our dinner.—Ruskin.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence—11th Ward.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

NEW SPRING GOODS
ARRIVING DAILY,
IN THE LATEST NOVELTIES
Ladies' Bows in Silk and Lace. Ties a large
	variety. Collars, Cuffs and Ribbons, an ex-
	cellent variety. New Style. Dress Goods.
	And in fact everything you want in general
	merchandise. Conference visitors, call at
TEASDEL'S

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

SOMETHING NEW--HOME-MADE.

Snell's Soap, warranted First Class,
					3 bars for 25 Cents.
Harris' Soap,	-	-	3 Bars for 20 Cents.
Washboards, (Zinc)	-	-	- 35 Cents each
Brooms,	-	-	-	-	- 35 Cents each
A FULL STOCK OF YARNS, JEANS,
ALSO
Cassimeres $1.00 to $1.25 per Yard.
TRUNKS. Etc.
JOHN C. CUTLER,
Agent, Old Constitution Building.

[Column 2]
﻿Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.
MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY. The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes. Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale, and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL, IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Three cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
Salt	Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
nvites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, io call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every,
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment-
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
							JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.					97 Kimball Block.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake :City

