[Vol22 | February 1935 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department

Theology and Testimony
(First Week in April)

LESSON VII
GEMS OF TRUTH

1. Those Who Serve the Lord. Here is great comfort for those who serve the Lord: "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church." (D. and C. 100:15.) It is frequently said that rain falls on the just and the unjust alike, and that sorrow visits the homes of both those who serve the Lord and those who do not. Let it be admitted that there is at least partial truth in the statement. The just, however, have the assurance that all things will work together for their good, while the unjust have no hope of reward.

2. The Lord has said: "Whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation." (D. and C. 95:1.) Again: "They who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down their lives for my sake yet shall they partake of all this glory." (D. and C. 101:35.) But: "Those who will not endure chastening, but deny me, cannot be sanctified." (D. and C. 101:5.)

3. God's promises never fail. There are untold numbers of Latter-day Saints who testify that adversity has often been a source of great blessing to them, and that trying conditions often prove to be a source of strength. Great comfort arises from the belief that no matter how dark the hour, or distressing the circumstance, God will bring all things together for the benefit of those who love him. There is probably no greater source of solace in times of trial.

4. Lives unattended by sorrow are like photographs taken in the full glare of the sun,—flat and characterless. In a beautiful life, like a beautiful photograph, the high lights are accentuated by shadows.

5. Leave Judgment with the Lord. Many people are prone to pass judgment. Almost without restraint they discuss the merits and demerits, particularly the latter, of others about whom they commonly know but little. Judgments are usually unjust and often injurious both to the judged and to those who sit in judgment.

6. It is evident without argument that fair judgments cannot be rendered in the absence of full knowledge of all facts in the case. In civil court procedure judgments are deferred until both sides to the controversy have been given ample opportunity to present whatever evidence appears to be relevant. After this has been done the evidence is fully weighed, and only then is the verdict rendered. Judges of civil courts are chosen primarily because of their supposed wisdom, fairness, and ability to differentiate between proper and improper conduct. But even under such conditions, errors in judgment are not unknown.

7. Little wonder then that judgments rendered in the absence of full information, particularly if influenced by bias and envy, are characteristically wrong. The Latter-day Saints are warned against conduct of this nature. The Lord says: "Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay." (D. and C. 82:23.)

8. Spirit and Element. There is much food for thought in the following: "Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy." (D. and C. 93:33, 34.)

9. The first statement, namely, that man is a spirit, should answer once and for all time the muted question among certain materialistic investigators—both scientific and religious—as to whether or not man is more than merely a physical being, actuated solely by mechanical impulses and entirely devoid of spiritual stimuli. Elsewhere the Lord has said that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. and C. 88:15.) That mortal man is a dual person—composed of both body and spirit—it is thus plainly evident. The Lord makes the further illuminating statement: "All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; we cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter." (D. and C. 131:7, 8.)

10. The statement that "The elements are eternal" answers all questions as to the ultimate duration of what is commonly called matter, although, of course, it does not describe its nature or composition.

11. Finally, the quoted statement goes on to say that man can receive a fulness of joy only when the spirit and the body are inseparably connected. It is little wonder that the resurrection from the dead is spoken of as the redemption. (See D. and C. 88:16-19.)

12. Knowledge and Intelligence. In bold contrast with the widespread sectarian notion that in the next world men will be placed in two classes—the saved and the damned—the Lord gives the following: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. and C. 130:18, 19.)

13. Justice, of course, demands just such a provision. It would be manifestly unfair if devout individuals who had exhibited a life-long devotion to the Lord should receive no more reward in the resurrection than those who had been scarcely less than indifferent. Fairness demands that all forms of industry be commensurately rewarded. That men be rewarded in conformity with their deeds is in strict accord with every law of the universe, wherein causes are invariably followed by similar and compensating effects. Anything short of this would be a violation of the fundamental principles of right and justice.

14. Moreover, if men were to be separated into only two classes in the resurrection, and particularly if the doctrine of unmerited rewards were to apply, a considerable part of the incentive for right living would disappear from the earth. While it is theoretically true that men should live Christian lives merely for the reason that to do so is right, yet incentive is a powerful factor in human conduct. Very few individuals would attempt to climb a mountain if it were not believed that a more comprehensive view would be obtained by so doing. Likewise, few students