[Vol22 | February 1935 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Our Relief Barker]
Our Relief Society By Amelia M. Barker  The Book of Mormon opening 4 ft Illus. No. Illus. No. 1
The following proportions serve nicely: each frame 6 ft. High, 3 ft. Wide, made of thin "re-saw", side strips and bottom 3 or 4 in. Wide, top strip 6 or 8 in. Wide, leaving an opening in the center of each leaf about 5 by 2½ ft. The framework for the covers is entirely covered with paper and lettered to represent a Relief Society Magazine. For the leaves only the framework is covered. Through one side of each page and also the covers a hole an inch in diameter is bored about a foot from the top and 4 in. From the bottom. The pages are numbered as in any book. The title announcing the program number is lettered on the odd-numbered pages. A companion title to it is lettered on the opposite even-numbered page and is in full sight when the page is turned back, as in illustration number 1. Our titles were: Page 1. Welcome. 2. Home. 3. Motherhood. 4. Block Teaching. 5. Handiwork. 6. Ethics. 7. Music. 8. Drama. 9. Literature. 10. Poetry. 11. Art. 12. History. 13. Biography. 14. Health. 15. Food and Nutrition. 16. Civics. 17. Social Welfare. 18. Theology. 19. Book of Mormon. 20. Theology. 21. Doctrine and Covenants. Eleven leaves, two covers,—13 frames in all. Illus. No. 3
The standards on which the leaves swing are made by bending two small iron rods 5 ft. Long as shown in illustration number 2. The hardware store where we bought our rods bent them for us without extra charge and made threads on each end so they could be bolted firmly into the 2 by 4 uprights. The uprights (illus. No. 3) are 6 ft. High and are braced 3 ft. Apart with the rods inserted top and bottom so the leaves will swing clear of the floor. Of course the leaves must be slipped on the rods before the rods are bolted into the uprights. Then this supporting frame is placed at such an angle that when the leaves grouped at AA' are slipped along the rods to B the center opening in the leaf will be squarely before the audience. The performer steps over the rod from the back, then through the opening in the leaf to enter upon the stage. Two 'pages' in costume stand at A' and C', the first to swing the leaf into position at B, and hold it as the performer steps through and gives her number, the second to swing it around to C when that number is finished. No reader is needed. The number is announced by the title at the top of the page through which the performer enters. ' 104
Magazine No. 2. Is a lath framework 4 ft. High, 2 ft. Wide, and 18 in. Thick, covered with paper lettered and decorated to represent a Relief Society Magazine.
Pleated paper indicates the leaf edges. It will be large enough to enable a child of 7 or 8 years to stand inside it and carry it around. Peep-holes must be provided among the cover decorations to allow him to see his way around the stage.
Careful costuming adds to its effectiveness.
Time for presentation, 1½ hrs, Setting. A living-room. The ordinary curtain cyclorama. At the left, back stage, stands the Relief Society Magazine closed. To the right of it a writing table on which are books, Relief Society Magazines, a work basket, sewing materials, etc.
Against the right wall, a divan with pillows, a reading lamp.
Several easy chairs. The curtain rises showing the pages in their places at A' and C'.
They slide the front cover into place at C', then bring page No. I into position at B. The President of the Relief Society steps through the page, advances to center front and speaks. "Dear friends, we welcome you here tonight on this the......
Anniversary of the founding of our Relief Society. We have a pleasing little play that we think you will enjoy. It shows the various phases of work taken up in our meetings and the many interesting and instructive subjects for study and discussion outlined in our lessons. We invite all you sisters to join with us, come to our meetings, that all of you, old and young, may be encouraged and blessed in our association together. March 17th, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society with only 18 charter members.
Since that time our membership has increased to over 65,000. Our activities have been so farreaching and so effective that today The Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known as one of the most efficient organizations for women in our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great nation and has gained international recognition. Not only does it look after the relief of the sick and the needy, but it is also a great educational institution, offering to its members valuable instruction in all subjects tending to uplift and enlighten womanhood, — personal culture, temporal vision, spiritual inspiration.
This is given us through the medium of The Relief Society Magazine. We shall now try to give you an idea of the enjoyment to be derived from its pages." (Exits left. Page 1 is slipped into place at A. Page 3 is brought forward.) (Pages 2-3.
Home and Motherhood.) (Mother steps through the page. She shifts chairs, arranges articles on the table, etc., sits down at table, picks up work. "Pages" exit quietly. Freddie, 6, and Buddie, 3, enter right.
Buddie sits down front center and plays with a toy.
Freddie approaches his mother. She lays down her work, and inspects him carefully, neck, ears, hair, hands.) MOTHER: That's fine, son. You look nice. You needn't start to school for ten minutes yet. But be careful and don't get all mussed up. (He joins Buddie.
Mother takes up work as Jean, 10, enters right, calling eagerly.) Jean: Mother, did you get my sewing material for this afternoon?
Where is it? MOTHER: Here on the table. Don't lose my scissors, will you, dear. (Jean goes round back of the table, examines her material. Paul, 13, enters, right, holding out a scout neckerchief all wet.) PAUL: Look, mother, what a funny color it's gone. MOTHER: Hang it on the rack, dear. It will be all right when it's dry.
Remember to press it as soon as you get home from school tonight. PAUL: I'll sure have to hustle after school. I've made an appointment to pass a test before scout meeting tonight. (He hurries out with neckerchief, right, almost collides with George, 16, entering, intent on arranging books and papers in his brief-case. He drops some. ) GEORGE: Here, look what you're doing! (Stoops to pick them up. Ella, 18, enters behind him, pulling a frock over her head as she hurries in. She trips over George's papers scattering them again.) ELLA (quickly): Mother, will you pin the collar in place on this dress, please. Dr. Munn's taking us on a Geology hike this afternoon, so I'll be late getting home. I won't have a minute before Mutual and the dance starts right after. (Mother helps her.) GEORGE (explodes): The next one that comes barging in here I'll— (Aunt Lulu enters, left, swiftly followed by Father, hat in hand, smiling. Aunt Lulu is a charming, gracious woman, about 50, welldressed, wears traveling ulster and hat.) ELLA (exclaims): O, here's Daddy and Aunt Lu! (Mother and Ella rush to greet her affectionately.
They stand with their arms around one another. Jean, George, Paul, and Buddie crowd round her.
