[Vol22 | February 1935 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Pelleas Social Service]

Pelleas Social Service (Fourth Week in April) JANE ADDAMS AND 1. The Beginnings of Settlement W ork. In the year 1867 a young man of wealth, an Oxford graduate, called on the Reverend John R. Green, later to be the most popular English historian, and offered his personal services.
Greatly surprised at so unusual an offer, Mr.
Green nevertheless accepted the proffered aid.
Accordingly the stranger took up his residence among the poor of this part of London. His name was Edward Denison, and Mr.
Green was then the vicar of St. Phillips, Stepney, London. The inspiration for this self-sacrifice on the part of Denison, as the world has come to look upon it, SETTLEMENT WORK came, it appears, from the University circles. In those days there were connected in one way or another with Oxford several men of exceptional talent and exceptional.
Interest in social questions?Ruskin, for instance, and Kingsley, and Maurice.
Besides being greatly interested in the condition of poor people, these men sought to enlist the interest of others, particularly of young men. "In thought," said the compassionate Ruskin, "I have not yet abandoned all expectation of a better world than this. I believe this in which we live is not so good as it might be. I know there are many who think the atmosphere of rebellion and misery which wraps 126 the lower orders of Europe every day, is as natural a phenomenon as a hot summer. But God forbid!" And he importuned his hearers and readers to "'act like men," and help to make a new and better world! It was under the impulse of such appeals to action as this that young Denison formed his resolution to help the poor. The spirit in which he worked is indicated in these words: "Would indeed," he says, "that we could have some real Christianity taught... Taught?but in the way our Founder taught it, by living it.
That is the only way.
Those who would teach must live among those who are to be taught." In another letter he tells of his work: "Just now I only teach a night school, and do what in me lies in looking after the sick, seeing that the local authorities keep up to their work. I go tomorrow before the board at the workhouse to compel the removal to the infirmary of a man who ought to have been there already. I shall drive the sanitary inspector to put the Act against overcrowding in force, with regard to some houses in which there have been as many as eight and ten bodies occupying one room."
Other university students took up the cry for better conditions in the London slums, through taking up residence among them.
These was Arnold Toynbee, a brilliant young Oxonian, who offered his services to the Reverend Samuel A. Barnett, a clergyman resident in Whitechapel, vicar of St. Jude's, in London.
Barnett had been to Oxford, where he had delivered an address on the conditions of the poor, which he had seen with his own eyes. It thoroughly aroused a group of young men, including Toynbee, over what Ruskin termed the making of a better world in which to live. Barnett,  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE before actively taking up the ministry, had served an apprenticeship with Octavia Hill. He therefore could speak with knowledge of the poor in London, both as to their condition and the way in which they might best be helped. When Toynbee Hall was established in 1884, Cannon Barnett became its first warden.
With respect to his work in the settlement there it is said' that "there is scarcely any modern movement for social betterment?health, visitation, slum clearance, old age pensions, city planning, workers' education?which was not anticipated by Barnett's plans and work." 2.
Details of Miss Addams' Life. Like Octavia Hill's interest in human welfare work, the interest of Jane Addams finds its roots in her early environment.
Walking with her father once, when she was a child, and seeing for the first time "the poverty which means squalor," she inquired of him why people lived in such horrid little houses, and declared with much firmness that when she grew up she should of course have a large house, but that it would not be built among other large houses, but right in the midst of horrid little houses like these. Her father was an unusual man, it seems. All her early impressions, she says,' were directly connected with him. The following incident is revealing, not only of the father's character, but also of the daughter's. After Hull House had been established, Miss Addams began agitating for some sweat shop laws. She "was told by the representatives of an informal association of manufacturers that if the residents of Hull House would drop this non Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. Twenty Years in Hull House (Jane Addams), p. 1.