[Vol22 | February 1935 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature (Third Week in April) LIFE AND LITERATURE Topay's DRAMA "All the world's a stage, and. All the men and women merely players; they have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts."?S hakespeare. RT is a world of Man's makA ing. In art man has found an outlet. The expression of the artist is the adjustment of man to that tension called life. The great art of the ages is drama. Man is a traveler on a shadowed road. In his unfolding both the individual and the universal are revealed.
Every man is a hero and.
Every life-story is a drama.
Hence human life and human destiny are the materials of the great art, drama. Art is a continual revelation of Life. To every observer with a trained vision comes the joy of understanding. "It is by art and by religion men have always sought rest." The Story of the Theatre Literature has been defined as a "criticism of life."
Drama is more than a criticism, it is an interpretation; also it is a vision of what life might be at its best.
Wherever human beings strive and suffer there is drama. It -has been persistently claimed that the basis of all art is religion; in the case of drama the truth is well established.
From every corner of the earth comes the evidence that dancing and music have had their place in primitive religious ceremonials.
Different forms and varying stages of development have been discovered, but the spirit ls the same. It is likewise revealed that the Hebrews and the Egyptians developed little dramatic expression while the Greeks, Hindus, Chinese, and Japanese developed elaborate and intricate theatrical systems. In primitive drama, love, hatred, food-getting, initiation and sacrifice were the chief motifs; the lines of heroic and mythical ancestors furnished the stories } the action was in the nature of a spectacle; and the overpowering seriousness made its expression tragic. 'The comic spirit entered LESSON DEPARTMENT dramatic art when the spectacle becaine detached from a religious ceremonial and took the form of a revel (comus-revel).
Literary expression, intensity of thought, mechanical equipment, and organization, have developed the art of the theatre to its present perfection, yet for beauty, effectiveness, and impressiveness primitive drama is often found to be superior to the drama of culture. The origin of Greek drama was in the ceremonial worship of Dionysius (dio ni' sus). A combination of song and dance formed the early festivals held in honor of this god. For the great spring festival visitors came to Athens from all parts of Greece. The semi-circular seats on the hillside leading up to the Acropolis could accommodate almost twenty thousand people.
About the middle of the sixth century B. C., Thespis, the leaders of the chorus, dressed himself as Dionysius and made the chorus acts as-followers.
This first impersonation in ceremonial led to rapid dramatic development. Aeschylus (es ki' lus) 525456 B. C., the first great dramatist added a second character, thus using dialogue independent of the chorus. Sophocles (sof o klez) 495-406 B. C., added a third character in his dramas.
Competition added a great impetus to the art when great honors were bestowed upon the successful dramatists.
Aeschylus is said to have won thirteen contests and Sophocles twenty. The stage evolved from the original sacrificial altar.
Masks were used to simulate character, later they were equipped with small megaphones in the mouthpiece to project the voice. The actors, all men, took great care in the training of the voice. The chorus took the place of action in the drama, announcing any change in time, place, or action. The themes were taken from the old hero tales so dear to 121 the Greek race. The theatre grew in two centuries to be an important institution in Greek life.
With the advent of the three great tragic poets, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides (u rip' i dez) Greek tragedy reached its highest point. In comedy Aristophanes (ar is tof' a nez) and Menander brought a criticism of the life of the times by satire, banter, burlesque and humor to the festivals. The Greeks loved their great plays. The torch of Greek drama passed to the hands of the Romans as they became conquerors. The Romans developed a form of drama reflecting the temperament of the race. The Greeks were artists and dreamers while the Romans were fighters and men of action. The revel became a thrilling spectacle which in turn became the forerunner of modern vaudeville including monologue, dialogue, and song. The Romans also were the originators of the circus.
Their theatres were also arenas where gladiatorial combats, races, and gymnastics were presented with popular approval. At the advent of Christianity, the drama had become so degraded that all performances were prohibited by Constantine, the converted emperor. For nearly a thousand years the dramatic spirit remained silent in Europe.
English drama began in the Middle Ages when the church introduced into its services a ritual of illustration.
Scenes from the Bible appropriate to the Christmas and Easter services were first used.
These presentations known as mystery plays performed by the priests became very popular.
Later the ceremony was removed to the steps of the church to accommodate a larger audience.
Again it was removed to the village common.
When the play left the confines of the church the acting was taken over by laymen. 122
From this point the development of English drama was very rapid. The mystery play was so called because it portrayed the mystery of the life of Christ. The Miracle play came into existence as a presentation of the life of a saint or a martyr. Another type of play, the Morality, was a presentation of a story containing an abstract truth or a life-lesson. The saints were superseded by historical characters, and short comedy scenes or interludes were interposed between the serious episodes. The play became in time secular. The scenes were mounted upon movable stages and drawn through the streets. Companies of strolling players traveled through the country giving performances in the courtyards of inns and on the village commons. The advance of the drama during the Elizabethan period is associated with Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The portrayal of human character through an understanding of human frailties and nobility; the sweep of imagination, and a new poetic form, blank verse, were new characteristics. Shakespeare is the undying glory of England. It is he who made England and all English speaking countries lovers of the play. English drama, however, declined during the next two centuries, the interest in poetry and fiction being paramount. Tury English drama took on renewed life until today it is assuming again its great role. It is generally agreed that "modern drama" began with Henrik Ibsen. Ibsen stands at the turnstile of yesterday and tomorrow. Ibsen has changed forever the dramatic map of Europe. All of our modern drama is the brain of Ibsen grafted on another land. Suderman and Hauptmann (haupt'man) in Germany, Schnitzler in Austria, D'Annunzio (dan noon'tsi o) in Italy, Late in the nineteenth century.
Shaw in England and O'Neil in America are among his greatest followers. The individual takes his place in modern drama to preach the gospel of individualism. Traditionally, the serious drama dealt with the transgression of an immutable moral law..
Ibsen saw human tragedy as man's failure to achieve peace with his universe?a social order dominated by outworn custom, unjust law, inherited instinct, and malevolent circumstance. His plays are a fearless disclosure of social evils. Ibsen's characters are ordinary people in contrast to the gods, kings, and princes of the older dramatists. His characters seen at a crisis make an unforgettable impression upon an audience. The content of Ibsen's work demands that thinking people look at the larger wrongs, problems, and possibilities in life. In our own day the greatest dramatic figures, Maeterlinck (ma'ter link), Tolstoy (tol'stol), Galsworthy, Yeats (yats or yets), and others have by their definite ideals and their splendid genius steered the drama through the struggles of commercialism to its rightful place as a great art. It is a long span of years from the time that a Greek audience of twenty thousand spectators watched the soul struggles of Prometheus chained to a mountain defying Jupiter, or viewed with awe the Antigone of Sophocles stand in si'lence awaiting the judgment of Creon in answer to her defiance, that of bestowing the right of burial upon her dead brother, to Maeterlinck's Pelleas (pell'e as) and Melisande.
Standing upright struggling to understand their love, and D'Annunzio's Giaconda (ge a con'da) having sacrificed her beautiful hands to save her husband's masterpiece still facing life without his love.
Many soul cries have been recorded in-the interim. "Human nature and human LESSON DEPARTMENT destiny are the two mysteries that the drama endeavors to reveal," says Hebbel, the German author.
Drama as such becomes a mirror of life recording the processes by which human intelligence acquires identity.
Ancient and medieval drama made the spectator an onlooker of the sufferings of man; modern drama makes the spectator a part of the drama as Bernard Shaw says, "We are not feathered spectators, but guilty creatures sitting at a play." Dean Inge pleads that "the stage of today must of necessity become the pulpit of the world."
Time has taken great liberties with the actor, the author, the theatre, and the dramatic form, but with the materials there is little change, because they are the materials of life which remain unchanged during the ages. Everyman, A Morality Play The best of the Morality plays which have come down to us is "Everyman," a beautiful interpretation of the meaning of life. The Morality play was a development of medieval English drama intended to teach the beauty of goodness and the punishment of-sin. 'These plays were allegorical, that is, the characters were personifications of virtues and vices such as Charity, Pride, Truth, Falsehood.
Curiously enough professional companies have revived the play, "Everyman," and carried it through many countries including England and America in the past few years. The revival made a profound impression upon all who saw it, the reason being that the play appeals to man's deep and universal instincts and feelings. "Everyman" is supposed to have been written by one Peter Diestenes, a Hollander, who lived near the end of the fifteenth century. The play is based upon a Buddhist parable which is as follows: A rich man 25 had three friends.
When his king demanded money as the payment of a debt, the man went to his friends for aid. Two of his friends with polite excuses refused the request. The third friend came to his aid and pleaded for mercy at the hands of the king. The meaning of the parable is this: the first friend was the rich man's personal property; the second his worldly companions; the 'third was his own good deeds?charity, human kindness, love: "The best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless, unremembered ~ acts of kindness and of love." The action of the play begins much the same as "Job" and "Faust" with a prologue in heaven. God reflects upon the moral condition of the world and the general activities of mankind. He sees men living on earth with no other thought than the satisfaction of their appetites, passions, and desires.
Their chief quest is worldly things.
Life has become a vain show. Death, God's messenger is sent to bring Everyman to his reckoning. As the messenger receives his instructions Everyman saunters on the stage. He is joyous youth, full of smiles. And gaily clad.
Death accosts him, "Everyman stand still; whither art thou going thus gaily?
Hast thou thy Maker forgotten?"
Everyman in fear, asks for time promising much gold if but a day of respite is granted: Death is relentless and will grant no respite for gold.
Only one concession is granted.
Everyman is given time to find one of his friends to accompany him on his journey.
Everyman seeks his greatest friend, Fellowship.
This friend when approached will do any earthly task for Everyman but he will not take a journey to Eternity with him.
Everyman seeks other friends to aid him, Wealth 124 whom he has loved so dearly, declines also. One by one the worldly friends decline to help Everyman. Finally, he bethinks him of a once dear friend, Good Deeds. Good Deeds is in the form of a maiden, she appears to be weak and much neglected. She offers Everyman her counsel. She calls her sister, Knowledge, to guide him.
Knowledge is a radiant figure representing the light of the mind.
Everyman allows" himself to be led by Knowledge to confession, where in humility he seeks cleansing in acknowledgment of his wrong-doing.. His gay apparel is replaced by sackcloth. A sense of confidence comes to Everyman. Good Deeds accepts the penitent and offers to accompany him on his journey.
Knowledge further advises Everyman to summon Discretion, Strength, and Beauty, and his five wits to prepare him for his last hour.
They come to his aid and give him courage.
Having performed their service they leave us as they cannot enter the grave.
Knowledge goes within the shadow of the grave and then withdraws.
Everyman is not alone, Good Deeds is present; she goes down into the tomb with him because she is part of himself, she is his better self, and will remain with him forever. The distant chanting of angels is heard on some approaching shore.
Everyman goes to the reckoning and the Book of Life registers the judgment the soul has brought upon itself. It seems unnecessary to add any comment on this old Morality play, but the analysis of a sympathetic critic, Ramsden Balmforth, is enlightening: "It is true to Nature and what we believe to be behind Nature. It will give rise to a multitude of thoughts and speculations concerning the mystery of Life, sin, the will, endowment, the limitation of capacities, the light within, the meaning of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of temptation, eternity, God? all these things crowd upon the mind as we see or read this old Morality." The Irish National Theatre One of the most interesting modern dramatic movements is the establishment of the Irish National ThePart of an interesting national revival by Irish literary figures in an attempt to strengthen a national consciousness, it has revived almost forgotten legends of ancient Ireland, and pictured the peasant life with its charm, merriment, and inherent tragedy. William Butler -Yeats is the prime mover in this revival. Since 1904 the Irish National Theatre has produced plays by internationally known writers such as Yeats, Lady Gregory, Padriac Colum, and St. John Errins. The most powerful playwright of the new theatre was John Millington Synge.
After completing his education at Trinity College, Dublin, he traveled on foot through France, Bavaria, Germany, and Italy.
Upon his return to his native land, Yeats suggested, "Go to the Aran Islands.
Live there as if you were one of the people; express a life that has never known expression."
Among the primitive fisherfolk still using the original tongue of Erin, Synge found the materials for his genius to produce the finest poetic dramas in Irish literature. ?In the shadow of the Glen," 'Riders of the Sea," are one-act plays. A comedy, "The Playboy of the Western World," won wide recognition for its imagery and characterizations. "Deirdre of the Sorrows" is from the world of Irish legend, Dierdre, the Helen of Ireland, is here portrayed in the story of her deathless love. Note: The lesson, "Irish National Poetry," in the Relief Society Journal of April, 1933, provides a backLESSON DEPARTMENT ground for the study of the Irish Theatre. Suggestion: If it is deemed advisable one of the Irish plays could be used in the lesson. 'The following Irish plays have much of delight in them. "The Lost Silk Hat,'' Lord Dunsarry. "The Gods of the Lord Dunsarry. "The Land of the Heart's Desire," William Butler Yeats. "The Rising of the Moon," Lady Gregory. Mountain," Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy. 2. The Story of the Theatre, Hughes. 3. "Everyman'?This play can be procured in the "Little Blue 125
Book"' series at a small cost from "Haldeman-Julius Co., Kansas City. 4. Relief Society Journal, April, 1933. Lesson?Irish National Poetry. B. Program: 1. Music: "Melisande" from and Melisande." 2. Discussion: a. The Story of the Theatre. B. The Place of the Theatre in Modern Life. 3. Review: a. "Everyman" or b. One-act play?Irish Plays. C. Objective: As the theatre is an important institution in modern life an understanding of its history and the scope of drama should be interesting and stimulating. It is not intended to make a critical study. "