[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: International Council Notes | Author: Unknown]

INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL NOTES. 
	The annual executive session of the
International Council of Women was held
at the Hague, July 10, and 11. A report by
cable testifies to a successful and interest-
ing session, presided over by the vice-
president, Lady Aberdeen. At this ex-
ecutive the National Councils of France
and the Argentina formed during the past
year, were received into membership in
the International.
	Since the adjournment of the Interna-
tional Council news has come from Bul-
garia of the successful organization, after
two years of preliminary effort, of a Nation-
al Council of Women of that country, with
an application for affiliation with the
International Council. The application
came too late to be acted upon at The
Hague, but the president of the Inter-
national Council will at once send for the
written ballots of the presidents of National
Councils, that Bulgaria may come in as a
peer with the other nations in this inter-
national band.
	Through the courtesy of the Board of
Women. Managers of the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo, the International
Council of Women opened a headquarters
in the Women’s Club House on the
Exposition grounds on August 7, to con-
tinue during the months of August and
September. This bureau of information
will be open daily from 11 to 12 o’clock a.
m. Beginning with August 7, weekly
conferences will be held on successive


Wednesdays. The subject will be “Inter-
nationalism and its Promotion by the
Council Idea.” No programs will be
printed for these conferences, but all visitors
at the Pan-American Exposition interested
in the progressive work of women will be
welcomed, and speakers from different
parts of our own country, from Canada,
and from the different states of South and
Central America, will discuss the subject
above named, each from her own point of
view as modified by her nationality and the
needs of her own country.
	The Council stands always for friendly,
co operative nationalism. It is intended to
make these conferences a means of stimu-
lating increased interest in organization as
a method of promoting good work in South
and Central America. The successful
organization of the National Council of
Women of Argentina, which on June 9th
voted unanimously for affiliation with the
International Council, augurs the success
of the Council method in the states of
South America.


[Column 1]
