[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | March | Issue: 6 | Title: HANNAH C. WELLS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

HANNAH C. WELLS.
“Oh, thou who dry’st the mourner’s tear
	How dark this world would be,
If when deceived and wounded here,
	We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in our sunshine live,
	When winter comes, are flown;
And he who has but tears to give
	Must weep those tears alone.
But Thou wilt heal that broken heart
	Which, like the plants that throw
Their fragrance from the wounded part.
	Breathes sweetness out of woe."
	Again it becomes our sad task to record
the death and write for the last time of a
beloved and cherished sister and friend. An-
other devoted and sainted mother in Israel
has gone to her long rest. “Aunt Hannah,”
as most of us loved to call her, lived a long,
good life—more than the allotted time—and
her life’s work was rounded out to com-
pletion. In her home she was a queen,
where loved ones paid her all homage and
the stranger and the friend found alike a
hearty welcome.
	When one has lived so complete a life it
is not well to mourn; but nevertheless there
is a sadness and a loneliness in the heart
with the realization that never more in life
can we behold her, never more clasp the
warm hand nor look into the kindly eyes.
That she is happier is our comfort, that we
shall meet again our consolation.
	Hannah C. Wells was born June 9, 1829,
on her father’s farm in St. Clair county,
Illinois. She died on Thursday morning,
March 6, 1913, at her home, 140 A street,
Salt Lake City. She would have been

[Column 2]
eighty-four years old next June. Her par-
ents were Absalom P. Free and Betsy Strait.
Her father was born in North Carolina and
her mother in Kentucky. They joined the
Church about 1833 and moved to Missouri,
near Far West, in 1836, and were driven
from there by the mob in January, 1839.
Sister Wells’ grandfather, Andrew Free,
and his wife, Mary Pennington, were also
in the Church and passed through the Mis-
souri persecutions.
	It was at Far West that the Prophet
Joseph walked up to her grandfather, whom
he never had seen before, and grasping him
by the hand, said: “Brother Free, you are
a true Ephraimite.” Aunt Hannah remem-
bers seeing the Prophet at Far West, when
she was about seven years of age.
	From St. Clair county, to which place the
family returned from Missouri, except the
grandparents, who died there, they moved
to Nauvoo in 1845, and were expelled from
there in 1846. They made the journey
through Iowa to Winter Quarters, and from
there, in 1848, to Salt Lake valley, traveling
in President Brigham Young’s company.
	Upon this journey Sister Hannah met
President Daniel H. Wells, whom she after-
wards married. There were born to them
eight children, six sons and two daughters.
Of these her oldest daughter, Abbie, and
three sons, Junius F., Gershom B. and Vic-
tor P., survive her.
	Sister Wells’ life was devoted to her
family, though she made several trips with
her husband through the Territory in early
days, and accompanied him on his mission
to England in 1864-5. She later visited her
relatives in Illinois, and as far east as New
York. She also went with members of her
family twice to the Pacific coast. She took
a keen interest in Temple work and offici-
ated for many of her kindred, mostly in the
Salt Lake and Manti temples. She was
called at the opening of the Salt Lake tem-
ple to be one of the workers, holding the
position until her death, though excused
from active labor the last two or three
years, owing to her feeble health.
	She was a suffragist, and always exer-
cised her right to the franchise from the
time it was first given women in Utah.
She was a faithful member of the Relief
Society of the wards in which she lived,
and a woman of charity and hospitality
who ministered to the sick and to the poor
through this society, and always individu-
ally, to those who required her aid. Her
greatest blessing, she often said, was the
gift of faith, which she possessed in a
marked degree. There was never an atom
of doubt that found place in her heart as to
the truth of the Gospel or the authority of
the Holy Priesthood. She knew person-
ally and reverenced all the Presidents and
most of the Apostles of the Church, and her
associates and dearest friends were their
wives and the leading sisters in the Relief
Society, and other Church organizations.
	Sister Wells died in her old age through
the wearing out of her body, but it was
a painful ordeal, leaving this mortal life


and its associations, which she so dearly
loved. She has gone to her reward, which
comprises every blessing ever pronounced
by the Lord’s anointed upon a faithful and
devoted Saint who has kept the faith.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel on Saturday, March
8th, 1913, great respect and love was shown
her by the many of her kindred and friends
who attended. The impressive services were
conducted by Bishop T. A. Clawson, the
singing by the quartet, Pyper, Spencer, 
Whitney, Ensign; the prayers by Presidents
J. Golden Kimball and Seymour B. Young.
Inspired, consoling discourses were given
by Presidents F. M. Lyman and Joseph F.
Smith. Many beautiful flowers, were sent
by loving friends who accompanied her
body to its last resting place, in a beautiful
plot of the city cemetery, which was ded-
cated for the graves of herself and de-
scendants by President Rulon S. Wells.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
