[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work-Meeting Plan Now Gifts]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 561 LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS BANQUET President Ellsworth gave a short talk and her daughter, Mary Alice, responded.
Other songs sung during the evening were 'Down by the Old Mill Stream,' ?When Irish Eyes Are Smilin,? "That Wonderful Mother of Mine' (the verse was sung by Mildred Ellsworth and the chorus of the first verse was sung by the daughters to the mothers, and the chorus of the second verse by the mothers to the daughters). A piano duet was given by a mother, Nora Clifford, and her daughter, Lenora Tate. Two mothers. Sisters Alice Welker and Rosa Welker, who have daughters in the service, were presented with corsages, after which all sang 'God Bless America.' A double duet was sung by two mothers, Jennie Brown, and her daughter Betty, and Sylvia Burrell and her daughter, Thressa Moody. Two little daughters, Joy Racy and Freddie Boggs, gave a tap dance accompanied on the piano by a mother, Vaun Raey. Sister Effie Richardson gave a toast representing the mothers, and her daughter. Carmen Richardson, gave a response representing the daughters. All sang 'Auld Lang Syne' and the benediction was given by a daughter. La von Evans. "The ward bishopric, assisted by about twelve young men, did an excellent job of serving this lovely banquet."  LAYTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. GRAHAM STAKE, (ARIZONA) Members of the bishopric and young men who served the lovely banquet for mothers and daughters of Layton Ward Relief Society. ANNUAL PICNIC OF THE LINCOLN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY', (TACOMA), SEATTLE STAKE, (WASHINGTON) Photograph submitted by Vilate C. Bottoms, secretary Work Meeting Plan now for Christmas AN APRON DAY FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS CHRISTMAS will be upon us before we know it!
Conditions this year present a real opportunity for Relief Society to help its members make lovely gifts for Christmas out of materials they may have on hand. Let us plan the three remaining Relief Society work meetings before Christmas most carefully, so that they will be profitable for all who attend. In addition to necessary work-meeting activities, let us offer special projects designed to interest women who have not hitherto taken an active part in work meetings.
There is a way to catch and hold the interest of every woman in the ward if the right way can be found. In order to find it, it is necessary to study carefully the needs of the particular group to which you wish to appeal and try out a number of activities that would seem to meet their special needs. If our program is organized to take care of all members who attend the meeting, we will be able to hold them and help them to solve many of their problems. The women who are interested and busy are not the ones who slip out and go home.
Almost every woman makes or buys aprons to be given as Christmas gifts. We all delight to receive one, but how often the delight changes to disappointment when the aprons are tried on and are found to be uncomfortable and poor fitting.
This year, when good materials are so difficult to get, it is more important than ever to have those who in the past have given "just any apron" consider whether the style and fit they select will be suitable for the one who will wear the apron. One ward with a very enterprising work leader planned a most successful apron day last fall. By looking ahead she was able to purchase enough materials and trimmings for the use of her group. No organdy ruffling was obtainable, but she found an organdy curtain which she had hemstitched in strips.
This provided plenty of ruffling.
Other trimming was picked up here and there, and soon the class leader had a very interesting assortment of materials and findings for her day.
Patterns were selected carefully so that there were some suitable to each material and to every type of figure.
Invitations were given to the ward women to come, purchase their materials, cut their aprons, and sew and fit them in the regular work meeting.
Making aprons in a group is fun Page 
 ?SEPTEMBER 1945 because many ideas may be exchanged. Even though a ward leader may feel that she cannot purchase enough material this year for her entire group, such a day could still be carried out by using all the material available and having every woman who has an apron length of print tucked away in her home bring it for her own use. Odd lengths of bindings, bias tape, rickrack, and bits of lace, too, might be donated. When they are all brought together it will be astonishing to discover what can be done with them. Every tiny scrap can be utilized some way in Relief Society. Save odd pieces of material for toys or gift wrappings which will be discussed in future articles in the Magazine on activities for work-meeting days. This year let us help each other to see the possibilities in the things that are on hand. see: "Combination Apron and Sewing Bag," Relief Society Magazine, February 1945, pages 96-97. "Utility Aprons," Relief Society Magazine, March 1945, page 183. "Notes From the Field," Mount Ogden Stake, Relief Society Magazine, August 1944, page 457.
