[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Regular Weekly Spafford]

535 EDITORIAL 
VOL. 32 SEPTEMBER 1945 NO. 9
Regular Weekly Relief Society Meetings Begin for 1945-46
Season 
THE month of October marks the beginning of regular weekly Relief Society meetings for the 1945-46 season. Beginnings are always interesting. They represent a space or period of time at which action is taken in the fulfillment of dreams or in the realization of plans, many of which have been long in the making. Beginnings are accompanied by all sorts of reactions on the part of persons identified with them. Some approach them with enthusiasm, full of faith in that which has been initiated, and determined that the outcome will be successful and glorious. Others are skeptical, approaching them with doubt and criticism, seeing errors in judgment, weakness in plans, and insurmountable obstacles in the way of fulfillment. Still others are passive or indifferent toward beginnings, taking them much for granted and little concerned with their own responsibility toward that which has been started.
One cannot always judge the outcome of a beginning by its auspiciousness. Often beginnings which to all but a few seem of little import are proved by time to be of greatest moment, defining objectives, introducing activities, setting patterns that touch the lives of tens of thousands and that exert a profound influence in the forward march of society. Such was the case 103 years ago when eighteen Latter-day Saint women were organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith "under the Priesthood and after the pattern of the Priesthood" to "look to the wants of the poor, search after objects of charity, and administer to their wants, ... to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." These sisters were early taught the proper relationship to their husbands, and their position in the home was an integral part of gospel teachings.
Women, young and mature, were quickly drawn toward the new institution. Forty-four new members came into the Society at the second meeting. Something had been initiated that appealed to all.
Today, 102,000 women are awaiting the beginning of the regular weekly meetings for the 1945-46 season. The objective as set forth by the Prophet will be adhered to carefully, adapted to present-day conditions and in line with present-day Church procedures.
Welfare work will receive a great deal of our time, with full support being given to the Church Welfare Plan.
Concern for neighbors will be emphasized. Page
536 EDITORIAL 537 WE must "cherish" one another, and graciously and willingly render service that will bring comfort and happiness into the lives of one another. Homemaking, too, will receive special emphasis during the coming season. It is the duty of Relief Society to train women to be skilled housekeepers and good homemakers.
Attendance at Relief Society should give women an enlarged vision of the importance of maintaining their homes according to Latter-day Saint standards.
Officers are urged to enlist young women as members of the Society, and to interpret and conduct the program so that it will attract them and meet their needs. The Latter-day Saint viewpoint and the spirit of the gospel should characterize all that is done in Relief Society, and the testimony of the truth of the restored gospel should be strengthened in every woman attending. Let us each resolve to be among those who approach the beginning of this season's work with enthusiasm, full of faith in that which has been initiated, and determined that the outcome of the year's work will be successful and glorious. -B. S. S.