[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Bible Driggs]

Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 3?Bible Influences As Revealed in Our Lyric Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, December 18, 1945
Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace. Good will toward men. THIS heavenly lyric, voiced by angels over gentle Bethlehem in the long, long ago, touches the heart of our study. Its soulful lines carry a message of divine meaning for wayward humanity. They point the way toward heaven. This inspiring song is sometimes called the first of Christmas carols. Carol singing among human folk, however, did not come until more than a thousand years following that holy night. And yet, it was the inspiration of that beautiful song and the coming of the Christ child it heralded which gave to us the car- (Luke 2:14) ols we love to sing to help keep Christmas a holy day. In a true sense, a carol is a song of praise for a festal occasion. As Christianity was spread among the common folk, their joyousness began to find expression, particularly at Christmas time, in singing praise to the Savior. Lyric lines springing out of their hearts became, with time, charming folk songs; and the best loved of these were passed on through the years.  
From this rich heritage we get such soul-lifting expressions as the following; It came upon the midnight clear, that glorious song of old, From angels bending near the earth, to touch their harps of gold; Peace on earth, good will to men; from heav'n's gracious king. The world in solemn stillness lay to hear the angels sing. O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant; O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem; Come and behold him, born the king of angels; O come let us adore him, O come let us adore him, O come let us adore him, Christ the Lord!
Some of our gifted writers, catching the spirit of the folk carols, have created lyrics which take place with those time-honored songs.
Among these are Luther's "Cradle Hymn" and "Silent Night, Holy Night" by Franz Gruber, known by heart and sung in many tongues.
Another that holds our affection for its sweetness and light is "O Little Town of Bethlehem" by Phillips Brooks, inspired on a Christmas Eve spent by him in this town where the Savior was born.
Following is the first stanza of that beautiful song: O little town of Bethlehem! How still we see thee lie; Above thy deep and dreamless sleep, The silent stars go by; Yet in thy dark streets shineth The everlasting light; The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in thee tonight. All down the years the story of the Christ child, with the angels and the shepherds, the star and the wise men, has been the inspiration of lyric expression.
Countless songs have been and are still being created around this theme.
Another sacred theme that has profoundly influenced our lyric literature is the resurrection of the Savior. To a world groping in spiritual darkness, this divine event brought radiant light.
With the sublime revelation that man can rise from the tomb into immortal existence, life took on new meaning, more heavenly purpose. For art expression, it was the opening of a new vista, arched by a rainbow of hope for a more glorious future.
Lyric lines, expressive of faith in immortality, accepting death as a part of the eternal life plan, as but a portal opening into a larger life, are to be found in many outstanding poems.
Following are a few such sincere and helpful expressions: Life is real!
Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returneth. Was not spoken of the soul. ?"Psalm of Life," Longfellow Ah, well for us all some sweet hope lies Deeply buried from human eyes. And in the hereafter angels may Roll the stone from its grave away. ?"Maud Muller," Whittier #? * I stay my haste, I make delays? For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways And what is mine shall know my face. ?"Waiting," John Burroughs * ?# Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea. But such a tide as moving seems asleep. Too full for sound and foam.
When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell. And after that the dark And may there be no sadness of farewell. When I embark; LESSON DEPARTMENT 573
For though from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to meet my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar. ?"Crossing the Bar," Tennyson Another appealing theme was found in the loving service of the Savior. His living lessons in true charity, tolerance, brotherhood, neighborliness, and other Christian virtues have been a constant inspiration to authors.
Illustrations that follow are typical of thousands of lines that echo the divine precepts and example of the Master in making the gospel live among men: She never found fault with you, never implied Your wrong by her right; and yet men at her side Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole town The children were gladder that pulled at her gown? ?"My Kate," Elizabeth Barrett Browning *?? It is not just as we take it.
This mystical world of ours. Life's field will yield as we make it A harvest of thorns or of flowers. ?"Perseverance," Goethe KY God send us a little home To come back to when we roam. Red firelight and deep chairs.
Small white beds upstairs.
Homely flowers in brown sod.
Overhead thy stars, O God! ?"Prayer for Home," Anonymous If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching.... I shall not live in vain. ?"Success," Emily Dickinson I see from my house by the side of the road, By the side of the highway of life. The men who press on with the ardor of hope. The men who are faint with the strife. But I turn not away from their smiles nor their tears?
Both parts of an infinite plan; Let me live in a house by the side of the road And be a friend of man. ?"The House by the Side of the Road," Sam Walter Foss All such poetical expressions serve to further the great purpose of the Savior in bringing the gospel to earth. He spent his life doing good among men.
Lyrical lines such as these help us to see more clearly the inner meaning of his divine work, and to feel something of the joy of our Father in heaven when we follow in the footsteps of his Only Begotten Son. It was something of this thought that inspired James Whitcomb Riley when he penned in homely dialect the little poem called ?Jim?? a tribute to a self-sacrificing shoemaker. Jim was always giving, always helping and cheering those who came to his shop.
Even in his closing days, when an incurable illness was taking his strength, the kindly cobbler had ever a pleasant word to give to others. And after he had passed to his reward, the poet has one of Jim's fellow workers say tenderly: When God made Jim, I bet he didn't do anything else that day But jest set around and feel good. No small contribution to the bringing of the Savior into our daily lives has been made by gifted poets of our own faith.
Songs of their creation that we love to sing not only keep us actively helpful, but also lift us closer to a heaven of reality, where the warmth of both father and mother love awaits those  who win salvation through a life of righteousness.
This appealing truth finds most artistic expression in "O My Father," a lyric prayer by Eliza R. Snow, which ranks among the finest of religious poems.
Besides the wealth of carols and hymns, anthems and oratorios linking directly with the Bible, there is a wealth of other lyrics that are in tune with its spirit.
Songs of innocent childhood, of nature in all her moods, of home and friends, of pure love, of loyalty and patriotism?all are in consonance with true religion.
Lines like these that follow surely lift us a little nearer heaven: My heart leaps up when I behold a rainbow in the sky. ?Wordsworth The little bird sits at his door in the sun A-tilt like a blossom among the leaves. ?Lowell I can hear the robin's warble and the meadowlark's sweet trills All around the dear old homestead lyin' there among the hills. ?Harrison R. Merrill But the air's so appetizin'; and the landscape through the haze Of a crisp and sunny morning of the early autumn days Is a pictur' that no painter has the colorin' to mock?
When the frost is on the pumpkin and the fodder's in the shock. ?"When the Frost Is On the Punkin," James Whitcomb Riley It has been a long evening. I have watched A sky of clouds go by. God lent A crown of sunshafts To flash and fall away. I am content. ?Leon Loofbourow Think every morning when the birds peep through The dim, leaf-latticed windows of the grove. How jubilant the happy birds renew Their old melodious madrigals of love! And when you think of this, remember, too, 'Tis always morning somewhere, and above The awakening continents from shore to shore Somewhere the birds arc singing evermore. ?Longfellow I'm hungering in the city for the smell of fragrant timber. For the valleys where the birchbark smoke goes curling through the trees. For the lazy miles of lakeshore, where the blue waves kiss the pebbles, In the land of skyblue water, up beyond the inland seas. ?May Stanley And last, this soul-stirring stanza from a nineteen-year-old American air pilot who gave his life to help preserve our freedom: Up, up the long delirious blue I've topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace Where never lark, or even eagle flew? And while with silent lifting mind I've trod The high untrespassed sanctity of grace, Put out my hand and touched the face of God. ?John G. Magee, Jr.
Discussion and Activities 1. (a) Be prepared to respond to roll call of your class with one or two lyric hnes from a favorite carol, (b) Join with class members in singing a carol chosen by your class leader, or chorister. 2.
What memory gem in verse has helped you hold some precious gospel principle before yourself or inspired you to keep doing good?
Join with your class in recalling lines that inspire hope, courage, humility, cheerfulness, love of home, honesty, neighborliness, or other Christian virtues. For example: "It's the songs ye sing, and the smiles ye wear, That's a-makin' the sunshine everywhere.
3. (a) What is the two-fold meaning of the expression, "learning a song by heart"? (b) Show with lines from a song you have thus learned how some song writer of our faith has helped to keep a precious truth or commandment in our heart. What truth, for example, is impressed in "O My Father"? in "Come, Come, Ye Saints"?
4. (a) What is a well-known song, anthem or oratorio which was inspired by the Bible, such as, "The Holy City" or "The Messiah."
(b) What, in a more general sense, is the influence of the Bible on lyric poetry? Select a poem or lyric of a modern song which, though it does not allude directly to any character or story, or use words or lines from the Bible, yet reveals the uplift of Holy Writ.
Suggestive Activity: Let each class member begin the making of a scrap book, or collection of choice modern lyrics expressing of truth, beauty, and goodness. Social Science NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season.