[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Lesson | Author: Magazine]
2 Rexburg, Idaho November 9-11 Arizona December 28-31 Page 242 Lesson Previews to Appear in the Yune Yssue of She Relief Society Magazine THE previews for the 1960-61 lessons will appear in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1960 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine, it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the general offices by the first of May 1960. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. Ward presidents, also, should make this announcement in the April meetings. << She Widening Circle Charlotte R. Leyden Associate Director, Public Education American Cancer Society, Inc. HE widening circle made by a pebble in a lake always reaches the outer edges. If it's a large lake it takes longer than if it's a small lake. If you dropped a pebble from a boat into the center of Lake Michigan you might never witness the moment when the widening circle meets the shoreline. But you know for a fact that it will. Not all of us may live to see cancer conquered.... 'The concensus of scientists is that cancer will be conquered just as were other once dread diseases, such as tuberculosis, pneumonia, and polio. The question is no longer if, but when. There are many doctors in practice today who remember the time when there was no if about it, when the outlook for the average cancer patient was death and disaster. 'hat was when a small group of men and women dropped a pebble of hope into the dark, seemingly impenetrable depths of the cancer problem. Slowly it spread into what has now become a vast life-saving network of research, service, and educational programs. Independent volunteers built the American Cancer Society as their instrumentality for achieving cancer control. 'The Society is a grass roots organization which belongs to its 2,000,000 volunteers, working in fifty states. They raise the funds, they set the policies, they do the chores that each year help save the lives of 165,000 men, women, and children cancer patients. In many: areas informative films for group -showing: may be: obtained from local organizations of the American Cancer Society. One million living Americans cured of cancer bear witness to the success of these efforts. In April the Cancer Crusade will give you a chance to drop a pebble with a dollar sign into the widening circle of hope for every cancer patient in America.. Page 243 Recipes Sion the Vest Central States Nission Submitted by Anna C. Merrill HuCKLEBERRY DESSERT 1 Cc. Sugar 1 ¢c. Flour and pinch of salt 2 tbsp. Butter 3 c. Ripe huckleberries, washed 1 egg, beaten % ¢c. Sugar, mixed with cinnamon 1 tsp. Baking powder, sifted with or nutmeg Mix in order given, stir in huckleberries. Spread in greased cake pan, 8" x 10". Sprinkle top with 4 cup sugar mixed with cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake 25 or 30 minutes in 400 degree oven or until brown and crusty. May be served with cream, whipped cream, or lemon butter sauce. Serves four. BerF lN SouR CREAM 3 Ibs. Lean stewing beef 2 ¢. Sour cream 3 tbsp. Fat "A tsp. Oregano 5 large onions 1 tsp. Salt Cut beef in chunks suitable for serving. Roll in flour and brown in fat. Remove to baking dish. Slice onions thinly and brown in remaining fat. Add sour cream and seasonings. Cover and bake in 300° oven for 2 hours or until tender. Serves 8. BANANA Drops 2% c. Flour 1 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs "2 tsp. Salt "" tsp. Vanilla "" tsp. Soda 1 c. Chocolate drops or chips 24 c. Shortening 1 c. Mashed bananas Mix as for standard cookie recipe. Drop by teaspoons on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 400° for 10 to 12 minutes. Yield: 6 dozen. BurteERSCOTCH BROWNIES " c. Shortening *% c. Flour 1 c. Brown sugar "2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs 72 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Baking powder ""% c nuts Mix as for standard cookie recipe. Bake at 350° for 20 to 25 minutes in 8-inch square pan. BARBECUED VENISON Use round, T-bone, or other cut of steak. Sauce is for approximately four servings. Sauce: " c. Catsup salt, pepper to taste 3 tbsp. Mustard (onion salt if desired) 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce " ¢c. Water Page 244 RECIPES FROM THE WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 245 Combine all ingredients in the order given to make bar-b-que paste. Place meat in greased baking dish. Spread prepared paste over meat. Add small amount of water to bottom of pan to keep meat moist. Cover and bake at 350° for 1% hours or longer, depending on tenderness of meat. Add water if needed. Roast PHEASANT 1 pheasant 1 tsp. Salt 1 gt. Boiling water ¥, tsp. Pepper 3 stalks celery 4 strips bacon 1 onion 1 c. Water Clean pheasant, place in pan, and pour boiling water over bird and into cavity. Place celery and onion in bird. Do not sew up. Rub bird with salt and pepper. Place in roasting pan and place the bacon strips over breast. Add the 1 c. Of water and roast in moderate oven (350° F) uncovered for 2 hours or until tender. Wixtp Duck 1 duck 3 strips bacon 1 stalk celery 2 tbsp. Bacon drippings " apple salt and pepper to taste 1 onion Clean duck and soak in strong salt water 2 or 3 hours. Remove from water and dry well. In cavity of duck place celery stalk, apple, and onion. Season outside of bird with salt and pepper. Fasten strips of bacon across the breast of bird with toothpicks. Place duck, breast side down, in uncovered roasting pan. Add bacon drippings. Roast at 375° F. Until it begins to sizzle and turn brown. Place lid on, and reduce temperature of oven to 300° F'. Baste every 20 minutes and roast for 3 hours. During last half hour remove cover and turn duck so breast will brown. De Luxe Hor Cakes 3 c. Unsifted whole-wheat flour 2 egg yolks 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1% c. Whole milk "4 tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Oil 3 tbsp. Honey 2 egg whites, beaten Combine in order given, folding in beaten egg whites last. Bake on lightly greased hot griddle. 'These are really light and tasty. Pan Cakes, Cuyuck Wacon STYLE 6 slices bacon 2 c. Flour Ys c. Cooked bacon fat 4 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs 1 tsp. Salt 2 c. Milk - "4 Cc. Sugar Chop bacon and brown lightly: Set aside while fat cools. Sift flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt together. Beat eggs, stir in milk and cooled bacon fat. Add dry ingredients. Beat to a smooth batter. Makes about twenty 3-inch cakes. Cook on hot griddle.. 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 DovucuNuts 2 eggs, beaten "2 tsp. Soda 1 Cc. Sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Oil 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Sour milk or buttermilk 1 tsp. Nutmeg 4 c. Sifted whole-wheat flour "7 tsp. Cinnamon Combine beaten eggs, sugar, and oil. Add sour milk or buttermilk and beat. Sift dry ingredients together twice and add to first mixture and beat well. Knead for /, minute. Roll to %" thickness, cut, and fry in deep fat. PRUNE CAKE 1% ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2% c. Flour 1 tsp. Nutmeg 3 tsp. Baking powder "4 tsp. Cloves " tsp. Salt % tsp. Allspice Mix well in a large bow], then add: 3 eggs. 1 tsp. Vanilla "2 ¢. Chopped nuts " ¢. Shortening 1 c. Prunes (cooked, cooled, pitted, and add juice) Beat until smooth, about 4 minutes. Bake at 350° for 45 to 50 minutes. Easy CaraMEL IcInc 1% c. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Butter "4 c. Top milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Mix in saucepan, bring to boil, and boil for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add vanilla, beat until thick and creamy enough to spread. Add a little cream if needed to spread. Wild Mlorn ing G lortes Ethel Jacobson Colors run riot Over the plain! Here like a purple Hurricane The morning-glory Armies sweep Till we walk in glory Ankle-deep, Where a myriad tiny Trumpets blare Triumphant paeans On April air! To Die Before 'Thy Time Helen Bay Gibbons ARY Sheridan was smiling M as she hung up the telephone. It was easy to break that appointment, she thought. I'd better call Martha again nght away —she is so insistent, and the luncheon does sound tempting. For a moment she glanced outside at her flower bed, neat and colorful behind the billowy, white Priscilla curtains. Mary took great pride in her excellent housekeeping. She enjoyed creating for her husband and children the peace and comfort of a clean, uncluttered home. Her eyes surveved the shiny kitchen, and discovered in the corner a small boy's Cub Scout cap, carelessly crumpled. "Oh, dear, I forgot about Jamie's scout program this afternoon." She tapped her toe impatiently. "Well, it isn't very important. Jamie will understand about the luncheon," she reassured her sinking spirits. Remembering the Cub Scout commitment really troubled Mary, for she was a conscientious person, but deliberately pushing aside her misgivings, she raised the telephone. That's when she heard the voices. Her startled senses suddenly became aware of an unexpected conversation. "Who else is coming in to see Dr. Sterling today, Sue?" "Not too many patients. A Mrs. Mary Sheridan just called and changed her late afternoon appointment to Friday." Many blocks away, Mary listened silently. She was a very proper person who usually wouldn't dream of eavesdropping, but hearing her own name mentioned, curiosity conguered. She held the receiver quietly — straining to hear the muffled voices of her doctor's nurse and receptionist amid the background of doctor's office noises. Apparently no one there had noticed the telephone ajar on its cradle, and the earlier connection with Mary's line remained unbroken. "Mary Sheridan!" she heard the nurse exclaim. "Did you check with Dr. Sterling to see if it would be all right to postpone the appointment?" "No. I thought it was just a routine matter. Is it important?" "I don't know for sure. Dr. Sterling had asked Mrs. Sheridan to come back today so that he could discuss with her the results of the tests we ran. Where are the lab reports?" Mary sat stiff and attentive. She heard the rustle of shuffled papers, and a comment or two that she just could not make out. 'Then she heard the nurse exclaim, quite clearly: "Oh, dear. This is a bad one!" '\Vhat do you mean?" "Pm not an expert at assessing lab reports, but see what it says: 'evidence of widespread malignancy.' It's sad when a case like this occurs. I don't envy Dr. Sterling. Of course, hell check and double-check, run more tests, and do all that he can, but when his efforts fail, he must face the patient. It must be tertibly difficult to tell a woman that she has only a few months left to live." Page 247 248 ARY felt a heavy agony begin to grow inside her. "Only a few months Icft to live." Her shocked mind repeated the phrase over and over. Its chilling force paralyzed her muscles and she sat with the telephone frozen in her grip, totally unconscious of the click of the other receiver, and the buzz of the dial tone. "It isn't true — I don't believe it,' Marvy cried aloud at last. But even as her ears heard the words, she realized that she did, too, believe it. A fear of just this sort of thing had taken her to Dr. Sterling's office in the first place. She put down the telephone, buried her face in her arm and wept. She cried only a short time, however, for Mary Sheridan had never been inclined to hide from reality. Always, when something went wrong, or when something had to be done, she had gone to work with a kind of aggressive energy to resolve her problems. Now that the first force of the shock was receding a bit, her mind probed urgently inward, and she began dispassionately examining her own soul. What was to be done? She tried to weigh her strengths and weaknesses just as she might have inspected the items in her daughter's back-to-school wardrobe. "Here I am," she finally admitted to herself, "just another middle-aged matron with a somewhat dusty mind and well-polished furniture. I have carefully cultivated my flower garden, and neglected my character. I live with my drab spirit in a lovely, cheerful house." "How did it happen?" she kept asking herself. "Dear, generous Dan works overtime to buy the things I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 want, and we are all too busy to have much time together. Oh, Jamic and Louisc, how I've neglected you." It did not take long for Mary to realize that there was much to do. And being very conscientious, she wiped away her tears, rose to her feet, and began to rearrange her way of life. % OK OK KK SONTOW, boys," said the den mother, Mrs. Whitney, "will you please stand, one at a time, and introduce your guests. Mothers, welcome to our Cub Scout party." Mary Sheridan sat very straight in her chair, resisting the urge to hug Jamie and his scrubbed freckles. No need to embarrass him in front of his friends. 'There was a certain manliness about him, but Mary could still see in him the baby son she had held in her arms such a short time ago. A big grin kept popping out all over his face, and his head bobbed around excitedly. He was so lovably like Dan, big, exuberant, and perpetually in motion. As Mary glanced at Jamie, she remembered uncomfortably the snowman they had not had time to make, the hike in the canyon that would have made them too dirty, and the noisy friends that were too unruly to invite into the house. "Boy, that was a real neat party, wasn't it, Mom!"