[Vol47 | April 1960 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Leyden]
[The Widening Circle Charlotte R. Leyden]

The logical step is to write upon the blackboard all of the problems before attacking any of them, eliminate duplications, and arrange them in a logical order. Hence the discussion takes a direction and purpose. The whole of the problem can be seen, and the relationship of one question to another becomes apparent. Likewise, the blackboard is invaluable in listing the answers of class members to questions or problems raised. This method enables both teacher and class to visualize the discussion and to keep in mind all the suggested answers so as later to evaluate them properly. This method glorifies the member's answer. USING THE BLACKBOARD IN TEACHING LESSONS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 229 It was important enough to wnite down. It glorifies the class members by making them the judges of their own responses. (C) Maps The most effective maps a teacher can use are outline maps sketched upon the blackboard. 'This can be done from time to time by a few simple chalk lines, or at a nominal cost of a few cents, an outline map can be drawn on the blackboard with white paint that is usable for years, putting in the details needed for each lesson with chalk as the occasion arises. (For illustrations of the type of details see J. Lewis Browne, The Graphic Bible). A painted outline map does not interfere with use of the blackboard for other purposes as other writing can be written over it freely and erased without destroying the map. (D) Charts and Diagrams The need of charts and diagrams in teaching for the purpose of clarification is apparent to allteachers. The blackboard simplifies and encourages their use because of the ease with which a chart or diagram can be made with chalk. Charts help students to see the relationships of time, proportions, distance, weight, and effects. (E) Objects, Directions, Events The use of the blackboard to illustrate objects, directions, and events has been greatly neglected. In teaching adults, however, its use is best confined to illustration of objects, directions, and events outside the usual experiences of the group. For example, one does not draw an illustration of a horse for adults who already have mental images of horses, but might illustrate the Temple of Solomon or the sequence of historical events. Illustrations can be made graphic without necessarily being accurate or artistic. Three fine books on this use of the blackboard are available: Blackboard Sketching by Freperick Wuitney, Milton, Bradley Co., Springfield, Mass.; and Chalk Talks; and Talks in Crayon and Chalk, both by Etta M. Woop, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. (F) Central Thoughts and ChalJenging Statements A sentence carrying the central thought of a day's lesson, placed upon a blackboard before or at the beginning of the class hour, has a powerful effect upon the class discussion, and upon retention. (G) Summarizations The use of the blackboard to summarize must not be overlooked. 'The best summaries are built up of responses by the class as to what has been accomplished during the class hour, and, when written on the blackboard, enable the students to carry away from class a unified message. (H) Assignment The best assignments arise from problems raised by the class members and listed on the blackboard. If the class cannot answer the questions, assignments for special study are obvious. 'The name of the person assigned and reference or directions for finding the needed information can then be suggested by the class or teacher and written upon the blackboard by the question. Placing assignments to a group, upon the blackboard, saves teaching time and the assignments are remembered longer. Use your blackboard at each lesson period for at least one thing, and you will find yourself preparing your lessons with greater care and teaching with increased satisfaction.