Francis Marion Lyman. An Appreciation by Alice Louise Reynolds. For many years I have lived in the home of one of Francis M. Lyman's relatives. I have met many members of the family, particularly from the south of the state. As often as I have met them I have heard them say, "Uncle Marion says this or thinks that" about a given matter. I often wondered how in his busy life he could come to know their affairs so intimately; but early concluded that God had made him a mighty counselor in Israel. I was sixteen years of age when I first met President Francis M. Lyman. He looked down at me over his glasses in his kindly, never-to-be-forgotten manner and said some things both appreciative and directive to me, every word of which I remember even to this hour. After that first meeting no matter what the circumstances, President Lyman always had time to say something to me; and nearly always had time to say something genuinely helpful. I fancied that because of very intimate association with members of his family that I was especially favored. I have never relinquished the thought that I was especially favored, only I have grown to know that I was but one of a very large class, and that there were tens of thousands of other persons in that favored group. This certainly is a quality that set him apart from most other men, for it is nothing short of marvelous that any one person could come in contact with such a host of people in the kindly sympathetic and intimate way that Francis M. Lyman did. To him surely will come that reward promised to those who seek above all else to save the souls of men, for he did strive with all his might early and late for the salvation of mankind. Whatever the offense committed, whether of major or minor character, he would be found nestling close to the offender seeking to have him see the error of his way. Face to face with one who was walking in byways and crooked paths he did not palliate the offense but sought to have the offender realize the gravity of it; nevertheless he did not leave the offender dismayed, but hopeful and encouraged. Face to face President Lyman made his corrections. It was his wont to correct in private, not in public. President Lyman did everything in his power to encourage people in well doing; everything to let them know their good deeds were not unnoted. He once said to a young man of my acquaintance, "I hear you have a well-ordered home and I am glad to hear it." "How did you hear it?" asked the young man in astonishment. "I heard it," replied President Lyman, "from a mutual friend: a nurse in my family who has done service in your family." Duty was once the watchword of society. Francis M. Lyman was of that school. It is part of his life's history that during the thirty-seven years that he was a member of the Council of Twelve, he never missed his quorum meeting, if he could reach the place of meeting in a day's travel. The one exception to this rule, so far as is known, was the Thursday before his death occurred. Just as he was leaving his office to go home for the last time, Harold G. Reynolds met him with the remark: "I am glad to meet you, Brother Lyman, I have some missionaries in the Seventies office to be set apart." He replied: "I have never before refused to set missionaries apart, but I feel very ill and I must go home and go to bed." This was two days before his demise. His devotion to his family was one of his marked characteristics. I have often noted with what tenderness he would embrace and kiss his daughters.

His genial nature is very largely reflected in his children, for as a rule they are most cheerful in their natures. The kindliest humor possible pervaded President Lyman's conversation in his home and in his general association with people. It relieved tension and serious and embarrassing situations. It was not two-edged but kindly. It is said that the American appreciates the humor in Mark Twain, and that the German appreciates the philosophy lurking there. There was much of philosophy in Brother Lyman's humor. A story in point was told me by a member of his family. At one time one of his sons went to him considerably wrought up. Somewhat excited he said, "Father, if I had your influence, if I had your position in the Church, I would do so and so, and so and so, and I would do it quickly and with force, I can't tell you." Putting his hand quietly upon the young man's knee, his father said, "My son, I am very much afraid, indeed, that if you had my influence you would not keep it long." President Lyman appreciated the good works of all people no matter who they might be, nor from whence they might come. His interest was in the achievement, in the main, not in the person who had accomplished the task. As he associated with people he gained his own impressions of the worth of men and women, and of their lack of worth. After a conviction had come home to him on a subject, or in relation to people, other persons were usually without influence either to change or modify that conviction. Especially impressive to me have been President Lyman's FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 67 sermons on the Sacrament and at funeral services. It was the practice of his life to partake of the Sacrament each Sabbath day. I doubt if many persons can be found anywhere who have preached as many funeral sermons as did he. It was the way in which he spoke of death that appealed to me. "Death," he would frequently say, "is just as natural as birth." We mourn at the departure of our loved ones and call it death; but doubtless there is rejoicing behind the veil, such rejoicing as we feel at a birth. I began this article by telling of the host of persons who have felt President Lyman's personal influence in their lives, and of his desire that all men should be righteous and do the works of righteousness. I shall conclude by calling to your mind such matter as combines both characteristics. For years I have seen missionaries go to him anywhere, everywhere and report that they were keeping the faith. One nearby might hear them say, "You know, President Lyman, you told us, while in the mission field, to come and report to you whenever we see you." Then one would see him look straight into their eyes and catechise them in relation to their lives. A missionary from Great Britain told me this story with the utmost feeling. A man came into the Liverpool office who was unknown to the other elders. He sat there for a number of hours looking very lonely. Finally President Lyman came in. The elder approached him saying, "My name is Anderson. I come from Grantsville." "What," said President Lyman, "my old friend Anderson of Grantsville who did so much good work among the Indians?" "Yes," said the elder. President Lyman put his arms around the man and hugged him hard, and the man's heart overflowed and he wept. What a father in Israel he was, only the intimate thousands who loved him for just such help may testify! He has gone to his reward how great it will be!