Birth Control The articles on birth control printed in the July and August numbers of the have attracted national attention to our Society and to the Magazine.

So widely distributed has been the interest and the inquiries concerning this article that the editor felt it imperative to inquire of the First Presidency of the Church if they approved in full of the statements made by the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and especially Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., who treated the matter authoritatively, and if all said was in harmony with the views of the First Presidency. We are pleased to present the following answer from them: Office of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Salt Lake City, Utah, December 13, 1916. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor , City. Dear Sister: The July and August numbers of the contained brief articles by some of the prominent elders of the Church on the subject of birth control, and in view of the importance of the subject and the attention it is receiving throughout the nation, you desire an expression from us in writing in regard to the attitude taken by the writers thereof, together with the soundness of the doctrine contained therein, with special reference to the article by Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr. We give our unqualified endorsement to these articles, including that of Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and commend the sentiments contained therein to members and non-members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints everywhere. Your Brethren. (Signed) Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency. Officers, members of the Relief Society, herein you have the word of the Lord, on this subject. Can anything be clearer or more emphatic? It is a very strange thing that people can believe BIRTH CONTROL. 69 that the Lord of Life could countenance for one moment, the refusal of his children to comply with the first commandment given to Adam and Eve. It is so easy to avoid parenthood, if people wish to do so, and that, too, innocently, even if selfishly. Men and women can remain unmarried. That is all there is to it. It may be interesting to our readers to peruse some of the comments made upon these articles by the contemporary press. Here follows the article given in the Journal of Heredity: RELIGION AND BIRTH-CONTROL. "Antagonism of the Roman Catholic Church toward the 'birth control' movement is well known. This antagonism is based on theological grounds, but it has frequently been pointed out that the result, whether the church has the fact in mind or not, will be to give the church a slowly increasing preponderance in numbers, in any community where the population is made up in part of Catholics and in part of Protestants. "The Church of Latter-day Saints of Jesus Christ, popularly known as the 'Mormon' Church, has taken a similarly antagonistic stand on birth control. Theological objections are raised against it; but in this case what may be called the eugenic aspect, the problem of altering the relative proportions of different classes in a population, is clearly seen and acknowledged. "In the July issue at Salt Lake City, , an official twelve elders who public make up the supreme council of the organization state their views on birth control. Elder Rudger Clawson says that it is sinful to restrict the number of children in a family, continuing: " 'Woman is so constituted that, ordinarily, she is capable of bearing, during the years of her greatest strength and physical vigor, from eight to ten children, and in exceptional cases a larger number than that. The law of her nature so ordered it, and God's command, while it did not specify the exact number of children allotted to woman, simply implied that she should exercise the sacred power of procreation to its utmost limit.' "Elder George F. Richards writes: 'My wife has borne to me fifteen children. Anything short of this would have been less than her duty and privilege.' "The eugenic view of the subject is most clearly seen by elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., who points out: " 'The first great commandment given both to man and beast by the Creator was to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth; and I have not learned that this commandment was ever repealed. Those who attempt to pervert the ways of the Lord, and to prevent their offspring from coming into the world in obedience to this great command, are guilty of one of the most heinous crimes in the category.

There is no promise of eternal salvation and exaltation for such as they, for by their acts they prove their unworthiness for exaltation and unfitness for a kingdom where the crowning glory is the continuation of the family union and eternal increase which have been promised to all those who obey the law of the Lord. It is just as much murder to destroy life before as it is after birth, although man-made . laws may not so consider it; but there is One who does take notice, and His justice and judgment is sure. "I feel only the greatest contempt for those who, because of a little worldly learning or a feeling of their own superiority over others, advocate and endeavor to control the so-called "lower classes" from what they are pleased to call "indiscriminate breeding." "The old Colonial stock that one or two centuries ago laid the foundation of our great nation, is rapidly being replaced by another people, due to the practice of this erroneous doctrine of 'small families.' According to statistics gathered by a leading magazine published in New York, a year or two ago, the average number of children to a family among the descendants of the old American stock in the New England States, is only two and a fraction." "It is unquestionable that the number of births has been much limited in the economically most efficient sections of the population of the United States, and very little limited in the least efficient sections. "It is also unquestionable that the spread of the birth control propaganda in the 'lower classes' is at the present time very, very rapid. Whether or not one approve of that spread, it is certain that the birth-rate of those classes is likely to fall, thus checking the very serious differential nature of the present birth-rate. "If, at the same time, eugenics can succeed to some extent in increasing the birth-rate among the socially most valuable sections of the community, then the present demonstrable deterioration of the American stock, as a whole, will gradually become less menacing." The Literary Digest also commented at some length on the articles. Not long since the editor of this Magazine received a letter from the Medical Journal of New York asking for copies of our Magazine. Very recently the following letter from the Birth Control Review came to this office: THE BIRTH CONTROL REVIEW. Margaret Sanger, Editor; Frederick A. Blossom, Managing Editor; Elizabeth Stuyvesant, Secretary-Treasurer. Dedicated to the principle of intelligent and voluntary motherhood. December 2, 1916. The , Salt Lake City, Utah, Please send me the copy of your magazine for July, 1916, which opposes Birth Control and what other material you have on the subject. We respect an honest expression of conviction and want to know your attitude. Any courtesy you may show us will be appreciated. Sincerely yours, The Birth Control Review, By Frank V. Anderson, Assistant Editor. We add here some passages taken from that quaint, old, recently discovered Book of Jasher, and you will see from this that BIRTH CONTROL. 71 the crime of race-suicide, or, as the milder term now has it, birth control, was one of the contributing causes of the flood which swept over the earth in the days of Noah. It is easy to understand how people who do not believe in life before they came to this earth, and in life after death it is easy to understand how such people can justify themselves in prevention of offspring, but it is incomprehensible that anyone should assume to be a Christian and make of marriage a mockery in this modern fashion. THE BOOK OF JASHER. Chapter 2, Pages 3, 4 and 5. 3. And it was in the days of Enosh (or Enoch) that the sons of men continued to rebel and transgress against God, to increase the anger of the Lord against the sons of men. 4. And the sons of men went and they served other gods, and they forgot the Lord who had created them in the earth: and in those days the sons of men made images of brass and iron, wood and stone, and they bowed down and served them. 9. And it was when men continued to rebel and transgress against God, and to corrupt their ways, that the earth also became corrupt. 17. And Lamech, the son of Methusael, became related to Cainan by marriage, and he took his two daughters for his wives, and Adah conceived and bare a son to Lamech, and she called his name Jabel. 18. And she again conceived and bare a son, and called his name Jubal; and Zillah, her sister, was barren in those days and had no offspring. 19.

For in those days the sons of men began to trespass against God, and to transgress the commandments which he had commanded to Adam, to be fruitful and multiply in the earth. 20. And some of the sons of men would render them barren, in order that they might retain their figures and whereby their beautiful appearance might not fade. 21. And when the sons of men caused some of their wives to drink, Zillah drank with them. And the child-bearing women appeared abominable in the sight of their husbands, as widows, whilst their husbands lived, for to the barren ones only they were attached. * * * * * * * * * And Noah found grace in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord chose him and his children to raise up seed from them upon the face of the whole earth. Sisters, readers, members of the Relief Society, everywhere be warned, watch your conversation, guard your lips, and 72 . see that you do not permit our young people to be infected with this dreadful marital heresy through your careless words or thoughtless agreement with this modern evil. We are happy to close this article with a clear exposition of the case by Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve: "Multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it" was the first great commandment. Since which time the prophets of the Lord have spoken in commendation of the large family. From the beginning until now the women who willingly became the mothers of legitimate children have been respected and honored by good men. Children are an heritage from the Lord, and those who refuse the responsibility of bringing them into the world and caring for them are usually prompted by selfish motives, and the result is that they suffer the penalty of selfishness throughout eternity. There is no excuse for members of our Church adopting the custom of the world to either limit the size of the family or have none at all. We have been better taught than they. The desire to gain an exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom should prompt us to take advantage of every child, and one opportunity for happiness, there, is the association with the children the Lord offers us to be our eternal companions. The small families in New England have made it to some extent the home of the alien. The devil deceived many excellent people, causing them to believe they would be happier without children or with only one or two. This resulted in the gradual dwindling of many families until names that were held in honor a century ago now have no living representative. Their talent has been buried. How will they feel when they arise in the morning of the resurrection and learn that they violated the law of the Lord and yielded to the temptation of the evil one and closed the door to eternal happiness? They may plead that they knew no better. But what will be the condition of the Latter-day Saints, for we have been taught the truth? When we refuse to assume the responsibility of parenthood it is with the knowledge that we are displeasing our Creator. What is more beautiful in life than a home in which father and mother are surrounded by a large family of children and grandchildren! Compare it with the willfully childless home. One typifies the eternal springtime of life, the other the eternal winter of death. One of the tricks of the adversary is to suggest that the fewer children in the home the better the chances for education, etc., and the contribution to society will be more worthy. If the parents had the choosing of the intellects coming into their homes they might successfully BIRTH CONTROL. 73 discard the weaklings, but they haven't. If they reduce the number born to them by prevention of conception, etc., they may deprive themselves of the honor and eternal happiness of bringing into the world a genius that will add lustre to their names throughout eternity. Many of the world's greatest characters were born in large families. The small family tends to selfishness, the large family to generosity. One child or two are likely to be pampered and spoiled, but where there are a number of children, each learns to divide with the others the favors bestowed upon him, each learns to serve part of the time instead of always expecting to be waited upon. Each learns the rights of the other and that those rights must be considered.

The gospel teaches that our happiness depends largely upon our posterity which, being true, should inspire us to desire a large and honorable family of children who by reason of being properly born will be heirs of the choicest blessings of the Lord. When we go from this sphere of existence we will not take any of the wealth of this world that we have been stewards over. It is only loaned to us for our development. But the children born to us under the new and everlasting covenant are ours for eternity, and no one can take them from us. They are a gift of a loving heavenly Father to us, and our happiness here and hereafter will be greatly enhanced by their companionship and love. Let the Latter-day Saints understand this and not exchange this eternal blessing for the folly and fashion of the world. (Signed)