Current Topics. 
By James H. Anderson.

Seven dollars a ton for beets in 1917 is good for the growers, but affords no promise of cheaper sugar to the consumer. Wheat acreage in the United States is considerably greater for 1917 than it was for 1916—a much needed condition. Radium as a cancer cure has been found to be ineffective, thus shattering the hopes of many sufferers from the terrible malady. Americans in Turkey are to be permitted to leave, at Germany's request, after a request therefor by the United States had been made. The Utah State Fair will be held in September this year, thus giving good prospect for fair weather which heretofore usually has been denied at the later season. Irish prisoners to the number of nearly 600, who took part in the recent Sein Fein uprising in Ireland, have been released from prison in Great Britain. Mexico has added two revolutions the past month, one in the state of Jalisco and the other in Oaxaca. Surely peace is yet far off in our southern neighbor's domain. Utah Battery A has returned from the Mexican border. A cordial reception was given the returned batterymen on their arrival in Salt Lake City. Military authorities in the United States now declare in favor of universal military training. They have learned that the United States is utterly unprepared for even a defensive war. Retiring State officers who have had to do with finances in Utah uniformly recommended ways of increasing the State's income by various methods of further heavy taxation, but none suggested the needed economy in every branch of the State's affairs. The Ford Motor Co., to relieve the railway car shortage complained of, closed down for a week in December, at the same time relieving its workmen of $1,400,000 in wages through the enforced idleness. Absolute prohibition of alcoholic liquors in the District of Columbia was defeated in the United States Senate by a vote of 61 to 8. The provision in its favor was introduced by Senator Smoot, of Utah. The Union Pacific Railway, at the close of 1916, paid to 22,000 employees whose salary is under $4,000 each per year, a bonus amounting to $1,500,000—something surely substantial in that Christmas gift. Five nations engaged in war changed all or part of their cabinet officers the past month—Austria, Russia, Japan, France and Great Britain; each of them with a view to more intense warfare. Jewish magnanimity toward the Hebrew race received an illustration at a meeting held in New York the week before Christmas, when nearly $2,500,000 was raised by those present to aid Jewish sufferers from the European war.

The new 640 acre homestead law requires seven months' residence on the land. Under this provision, there yet remains millions of acres of the public domain in the west that must continue in government ownership. Germany has announced a willingness to make peace, but no terms are given. Great Britain also expresses a similar wish, but states no terms. It is understood, however, that each side is so far from the other's view of what should be that peace is impossible for many months to come. Romania has been practically overrun by the Teutonic armies. The fighting ability of the Romanians was greatly overrated, the result being a decided disadvantage to the Entente allies, both from a moral and a military standpoint. Utah school teachers assembled in convention in Salt Lake City passed a resolution to take the office of State Superintendent of public instruction out of politics by making that official appointive. As there is proportionately more political jugglery connected with appointive than with elective officers, the teachers have something to learn.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto: