The First Presidency of the Church have paid the high compliment of asking this Society to lead out in a general movement looking to a change in some of the prevalent modes of dress, dancing, and of general behavior among the young and old people. For the young will never indulge in unseemly conduct unless their elders wink at it in the initial stages of its development. We are not disposed to begin this movement too hastily, nor with overmuch zeal. When individuals or the public are sick, your curative doses must not be too heavy, at first, lest prostration result. But sickness, which is a physical body out of harmony with the laws of nature, needs curative remedies. And the public generally, which includes the majority of persons, is certainly sick. When our girls and women go into public places with their dresses three inches shorter than their shoe-tops, with nothing to cover their bodies from arm-pits and corset rim, to chin, except transparent muslin; when they go in bathing clothed in tiny trunks and shoes only, with mothers complacently looking on, and fathers and brothers allowing such exposures, and with moral standards gradually lowering to accommodate these lapses, there is something certainly "rotten in Utah." Mothers who have persistently violated modesty and their own covenants by wearing short sleeves and half-low necks, who have been card-players, breakers of the Word of Wisdom, and of the Sabbath Day—these mothers would naturally view with entire complacency the half-naked condition of their daughters in public places. But when these examples spread, and we hear good Latter-day Saint mothers defending such looseness on the ground of expediency, or common custom, it is time for public teachers and watchers upon the towers of Zion to arise and cry out a warning note. What can we do, then, women and sisters, our members and officers in this Relief Society? We can guard our own conduct. Any little lapse from the strict rules of modesty in dress, speech, or behavior, of which we may have been guilty must be reformed before we can expect a change in greater lapses on the part of our daughters or granddaughters. We can refuse to countenance by word or thought the immodesty shown by our children or grandchildren. If they are grown or married, and they will indulge in these things, at least we may not smile at it nor treat it as a light matter.

Don't be deceived. Satan fools a good many people with that phrase, "be easy on the young people." Be as easy as you will on the young person, but never, under any circumstances, be easy on her folly or violation of moral decencies. We can refuse to read or buy books and magazines that exploit adultery and loose moral standards. We can remain away from theaters and picture shows that portray vice and sin in glittering colors and suggestive references. A play recently produced in this city was so vile in action, word, and reference, that good people who inadvertently attended it, suffered for days from a sense of personal humiliation; yet the play was beautifully staged, and presented by a first-class company. Such evident decadence of public, moral standards fills the mind with disgust, and a horror of the future for this nation and other nations like this one. Mothers and fathers can't afford to be seen at such places. When absent they can consistently advise their children not to attend.

We can refuse to buy or to make clothing for ourselves and our daughters which exposes the body and is indecently immodest. If girls earn their own money, at least a mother may advise and assist her daughter to choose wisely. If mother's word is insufficient, let father be called into the council. Don't worry over that old gag about the stern parent driving away the wild son or daughter by harshness. Ninety children go wrong from over-indulgence and weakness where ten go wrong from harshness and severity. This is the age of obedient parents, you know. Finally, which is the wisest preventive of all, we can devote our days and nights to contriving ways and means to keep our young people constantly engaged and employed in interesting work and clean amusements of all kinds, so that their minds and hands are not left idle. Drive out evil with good. Here endeth the first lesson!

The General Board, the Stake and Ward officers, and every member of the Relief Society join in loving congratulations to our honored President, Emmeline B. Wells, on her birthday. She will be eighty-nine years young on the last day of February. Woe to the wight who calls her old, feeble, or grandmother.