Guide Lessons. Second Week in March.

BIBLE LESSON. SEEKING A WIFE REBECCA. (Reading: Genesis Twenty-Fourth.)

Seeking a wife in marriage, from the very beginning, has been one of man's chief and most delightful interests. But there are ways and ways of doing this necessary thing. One of these ways we shall discover in the case of Rebecca's winning by Isaac. This is quite a suggestive romance, when you stop to think of it, that affair of this interesting couple. Getting down under the surface of the details presented to us in Genesis and in Josephus, we disclose some foundational ideas in the affairs of marriage, and also some customs in vogue during those ancient times which it would be by no means to our discredit to imitate. But let us get some other, and less important, matters off our hands first.

In those days, as in these, people lived in what we call the country and the city. Isaac's home was in the country; Rebecca's in the city. It must be remembered, however, that the city of those ancient times was very different from ours. What Nahor, the town where Rebecca lived, was like can be surmised from the following description: This pastoral region was to become so distinctively the home of that portion of the race which remained on the far side of the Euphrates, that it became known as the "town of Nahor." A vast limestone plateau, seamed by deep ravines, extends east and northeast of Corfu, but sinks into an alluvial plain to the south. On the slope of a low hill in the midst of this lies Haran, looking out over a wide and richly fertile level, of more than twenty square miles in extent. A circle of low volcanic hills shuts in the view and marks the character of the landscape towards the Euphrates. Small brooks appear after rains, but they soon disappear, and leave the open expanse to the fierce heat of the sun. In winter the temperature is low, but in summer the heat is intolerable, especially when the wind blows from the Southern Arabian desert. October and November see all traces of vegetation burnt up, except on the edge of any trickle of water; but, as soon as rain falls, all nature revives, though only to be speedily withered by the winter winds.

Spring alone covers the soil with a comparatively more abiding carpet of grass, varied by countless flowers of every color, and offering every attraction of form and height. It is, however, as a whole, far from being what we should think a desirable climate. The change to summer is as rapid as that which ushers in the spring. The verdure of the plains perishes in a day. Hot winds from the desert burn up and carry away the shrubs; nights of locusts, darkening the air, destroy the few patches of cultivation, and complete the havoc begun by the heat of the sun, which soon grows over the face of the country, and can be seen advancing from the desert, carrying with them clouds of sand and dust. Almost utter darkness prevails during their passage, which lasts, generally, about an hour, and nothing can resist their fury. The Arabs strike their black tents and live during these hot months in sheds of reeds and grass, on the banks of the river: if they can find a spot furnishing the materials for such shelters. The thermometer ranges from 112 to 115, or even 117 degrees; and hot winds sweep, like blasts from a furnace, over the desert during the day, while they drive away sleep by night. Compared with such a home Canaan was a paradise. In the town itself, the ruins of an ancient stronghold, built of large blocks of basalt, still attest the military importance of the position. Nor was it less favorably placed for commerce. Four roads passed through it from the earliest times: to Assyria, on the east; to Babylon and the Persian Gulf on the southeast; towards Asia Minor on the north, and to Syria on the southwest. At the foot of the slope which is crowned by the ruins of that fortress, are nestled the beehive-shaped huts of the Bedouin population, who thus, like the inhabitants of the many villages of the open plain, still use dwellings exactly similar to those seen on ancient Assyrian slabs; scarcity, or rather want, of timber, forcing them to adopt this singular style of building. Bare stone walls raised without cement into the shape of a sugar loaf, with a hole at the top for light, have in all ages been characteristic of the neighborhood. Everywhere in the plain one meets traces of ancient canals of irrigation, by which the waters of the Belik were utilized to spread fertility throughout the year on all sides. But the traveler is especially attracted by the "Wells of Rebecca," where Eliezer met the future wife of Isaac, and where Sarah had certainly often been, long before her. Even now, the flocks of Haran gather round them each morning, and the women still come to them to draw water for the day's use. The fullest description of this temporary home of Abraham, which became the permanent center of the eastern branch of his race, is given by Dr. Malan. He approached it from the north, where "the green slopes of the lower hills of Armenia" have sunk into the rolling hills on the right hand and on the left of the plain recede farther and farther, until you find yourself fairly launched on the desert ocean; a boundless plain, strewed at times with patches of the brightest flowers, at other times with rich and green pastures, covered with flocks of sheep and goats feeding together; here and there a few camels, and the son or daughter of their owner tending them. One can quite understand that the sons of this open country, the Bedouin, love it, and cannot leave it; no other soil would suit them. The air is so fresh, the horizon is so far, and man feels so free, that it seems made for those whose life is to roam at pleasure and who owe allegiance to none but themselves. The ruins of the castle surmounting a mound makes Haran a landmark plainly visible from every part of the plain. That same day I walked at even to the well I had passed in the afternoon, coming from Corfu; the well of this, the city of Nahor, "at the time of the evening, the time when women go out to draw water." There was a group of them filling, no longer their pitchers, since the steps down which Rebecca went to fetch the water are now blocked up, but filling their waterskins, by drawing water at the well's mouth. Everything around that well bears signs of age and of the wear of time; for, as it is the only well of drinkable water there, it is much resorted to.

Other wells are only for watering the flocks. There we find the troughs of various height, for camels, for sheep, and for goats, for kids and for lambs; there the women wear nose-rings, and bracelets on their arms, some of gold or of silver, and others of brass, or even of glass. One of these was seen in the distance, bringing to water her flock of fine patriarchal sheep. When she reached the well, shepherds, more civil than their brethren of Horeb, had filled the troughs with water for her sheep. She was the sheik's daughter, the "beautiful and well-favored Sadheefeh." As the shadows of the grass and of the low shrubs around the well lengthened and grew dim, and the sun sank below the horizon, the women left in small groups; the shepherds followed them, and I was left alone in this vast solitude. Geikie, "Hours with the Bible," Vol. I, Chap. 14. Rebecca was like the Sheik's daughter. When Abraham's servant came to the well at Nahor, he asked more than Laban's sister for a drink, though they all refused, and only Rebecca took down her jug and quenched his thirst and that of his camels. This custom of women doing heavy work is characteristic of all primitive peoples. Indeed, some of the more civilized peoples of Europe today have not entirely gotten over this habit. As a rule, Americans treat their women better than most other peoples. Oriental travel in those far-away days was accomplished almost altogether by means of the camel. This animal was the most serviceable for the purpose, largely because he could go a long time without water. Those were not the days of the automobile, the steam railway, the electric line, or even the horse-carriage. It is in the matter of marriage, however, that we see the greatest contrast with our own times. Marriage with Abraham was a very solemn affair. So it was with his people after him. He and they, as do the Latter-day Saints today, enshrined it in the sanctities of religion. Listen to that well-known conversation between the Patriarch and his servant: "And Abraham said unto the eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, 'Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh; and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell. But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac.' "And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me into this land, must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? "And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again. The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, 'Unto thy seed will I give this land' he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence. And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath. Only, bring not my son thither again.' "And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter." From this passage it is clear that Abraham held a marriage between his son and a Canaanitish woman in utter abhorrence. There was only one thing he would not rather see happen—the return of the family to the land from which he had been called by the voice of Jehovah. So he made his most trustworthy servant swear in the most solemn manner and in the name of God that he would do his best to turn aside such an evil chance. Why? Because Abraham had been given a sacred promise by the Lord concerning "the seed." It thus became his duty—there is no higher word—to preserve the purity of this seed. In the marriage of Isaac, therefore, the Patriarch appears to have been thinking of his remote posterity rather than of the personal happiness of his son. In terms of our own day, race was with him the prime consideration in marriage. Coupled very closely with this idea is the Abrahamic conception of the purpose of marriage. And this conception, as we shall see over and over again, was held to with great tenacity by his descendants. It was, that marriage is chiefly racial, rather than individual, in its aims and purposes.

That Sarah was barren appears to have given Abraham more or less concern. Today alas barrenness is often assiduously cultivated in certain quarters of worldly society. It followed naturally from this ideal of marriage that the contracting parties, being young and inexperienced, should not have the final say in the matter of the mating. Indeed, they appear to have had no say in the matter at all. And this was true at the time of which we are speaking, not only in the case of Isaac, but of others as well. Abraham seems to have taken the initiative, the servant chose the young lady; and Isaac did not see her till she was brought home to him "engaged." Nor does it appear that she was consulted in the matter. For, according to Josephus, she told the servant at the well that her brother Laban was "the guardian of her virginity." Moreover, the question which the Bible account says was put to her in the words, "Wilt thou go with this man?" was really intended to ascertain whether she would go before ten days or abide with her family for a time. How different, this, from the independent attitude of young people today, with their ideas of individual happiness, who look upon the slightest hint from their parents that so-and-so will not do for them, as an unwarrantable interference with their personal rights and liberty! And yet how reasonable is the thought that God could as easily inspire the wise parents to choose rightly, as He could the immature young people, often guided only by sex-impulses. There is present in this incident the thought that God directs all matters. "Behold," says the servant, "I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. And let it come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say, 'Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink;' and she shall say, 'Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also' - let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac." And when this very thing happened, he took it for a sign that the hand of the Lord was guiding him. Abraham himself had already promised the servant that the Lord would "send his Angel before thee." Marriage, therefore, among this rising people, whatever it may have been among other peoples of the age, was an institution established for purposes of race perpetuation, which ought to be guided, not by the personal whims, caprices, and fancies of young, inexperienced persons, but rather by the matured wisdom of such elders as have posterity in mind and know what is good for posterity. There seems to be even in the outside world a veering of sentiments respecting marriage, back, in some respects, to this ancient conception we have been speaking of. It is coming to be more and more believed among wise men of the world that marriage is after all a social or communal institution and that therefore society should have the direction of it in its own hands. Of this fact recent marriage laws in various states are an attestation. Collective man is endeavoring more than ever to say who shall and who shall not marry and to prescribe the conditions that shall obtain in the rearing of children. The Latter-day Saints teach, and have always taught, that those entering the marriage relation should seek divine guidance in the selection of a companion "for time and for eternity."

1. Give some of the conditions under which people lived at the time of Rebecca.
2. How was long-distance travel accomplished in those days?
3. State the substance of the conversation between Abraham and his servant concerning Isaac.
4. Why did Abraham hold in such abhorrence a marriage between his son and a Canaanitish woman?
5. Is there any matrimonial alliance which he would avoid for his son today, if he were living here?
6. What do you think of the practice of those times of not consulting the contracting parties in their marriage? Would such an idea work today? Why?
7. Why should the state have something to say in the matter of who should marry and the conditions of child-rearing? How much should the state have?
8. What, in your opinion, are some things that should prevent the marriage of certain persons, or classes of persons?

"Oh how I love thy law! It is my meditation all the day."

Bible, Genesis. Chapters 26; 27; 28.

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in March.

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in March.

In the middle ages all over Europe people who engaged in trades occupied a very respectable and responsible position in society. Especially was this true in Great Britain and among the Germanic people. The trades united together in guilds much in the same way as we have trades unions amongst us today. There was a guild of tailors, of haberdashers, of shoemakers, of cordwainers, of carpenters, of cartwrights and cobblers. The clerks and the coopers, the turners and the sextons all were bound up into separate guilds. So powerful did these guilds become that the professionals like the musicians or minstrels, the painters and architects, finally joined to each other in separate guilds and became so aggressive that they dictated the policy of the reigning families through their representatives. The Guild Hall in London today is one of the most ancient and elaborate public buildings in that great city.

These guilds took great pride in the products of the guild. The council examined specimens of workmanship, passed upon the qualifications necessary for apprentices who aspired to become masters, and in short formulated rules of conduct and bylaws to govern the body. They held great feasts and had public days when their pageants passed through the streets of the town or city in brilliant array. The survival of these ancient customs is found today in the Fourth of July and other public holiday festivals, such as the Wizard of the Wasatch festival during the past summer in Salt Lake City.

The guilds frequently sent an apprentice who had completed his course, out upon his travels, both in his own country and in foreign lands. Letters of introduction would be given him to fellow guilds in other countries, thus opening the door for him into his own class of society where he traveled. A singular feature of these guilds was their choice of totems or emblems which represented the guild. The symbol of the trade would be surrounded by a wreath and placed upon a banner. If they had a crown above the emblem it signified that Royalty had acknowledged the guild. Moreover, the crown expressed the high esteem in which the workers held their own trade. The members considered themselves ennobled by their toil and that they merited a coronet as truly as does any baron or earl. In their annual festivities each trade marched its own particular guild, bearing its banner aloft on a wonderfully carved gilt pole, surmounted by a figure of the patron saint of the trade—Crispin for the shoemaker, Blaize for the wool combers, Barbara for the armorers, and so on—between two flickering tapers. Almost every guild had its own band, each its chapel in the great church, its guildhall, its special coffer, and its particular symbol of the trade.

To the present day, in many English villages, a man is spoken of by his trade, as Millard, Carpenter, Mason, Cobbler, with the Christian name attached and the surname ignored, as John Millard, Joe Carpenter, Mason Bill, and Cobbler Dick.

Adam, a gaoler ("Comedy of Errors," IV:iii).

Archer, a bowman. Every town, every village, had its archer. And the Butts were outside the town for common practice. The Butts as well as the Archer have provided family names.

Baker. The feminine form of Bagster or Baxter. The French Boulanger furnished the surnames Bullinger and Pullinger. The French word Fournier has also furnished the surname Furner.

Banister, the keeper of the bath; from the French bain.

Barber. Till the year 1745 every surgeon was a member of the Barbers' Company. The surname Surgeon is not often met with, but that of Barber is very common.

Blacksmith. This trade has constituted the surname Black and Smith, Smyth, Smeyt, Smijth, as well as Faber, Fabricius, Ferrier, Ferrers, Fervour, Fearon.

Caird, a tinker.

Carpenter needs no explanation.

Cartwright, maker of carts.

Chandler, candle-maker.

Chapman, a traveling merchant. Cheap-Jack takes his name from the word, so does Cheapside.

Chaucer, from Chausseur, a shoemaker.

Clerk, one who could read, and plead the benefit of the clergy. Hence Clark and Clarke.

Cobbler, a mender of boots and shoes.

Collier, although originally a charcoal-burner, the name came to be used for the dealer in the town in charcoal and in sea-coal.

Cook enters into many combinations, as in Norman-French LeCoc, Badcock (Bartholomew the Cook), Hancock (John the Cook), Wilcox (William le Coq), etc.

Cooper, a maker of vats and barrels. Cooper or Couper, a maker of cups.

Cryer, a town bellman.

Currier, the curer of skins; hence Curry. Cutter, a cutter of cloth for the tailor. Cutler, properly Scutler, a shield-maker, from the Latin Scutum. Dyer or Dister, also Dexter, Dwyer. Flaxman, dealer in flax. Fletcher, an arrowsmith; French fleche. Fuller, already described. Girdler, a maker of girdles. Holder, an upholsterer, or stuffer of mattresses, bed, and cushions. Hooker, a maker of crooks. Hooper, a maker of hoops for casks. Launder or Lavender, a washerman. Layman, lagman or lawyer. Lorimer, maker of straps, bits, and girths. Malster, for Malster. Merchant, also Marchant, from the French, in place of English "monger." Ostler, hence Oastler and Hostler; but Oseler, as already said, is a birdcatcher. Packer, a woolpacker; also Pack as a surname. Painter, often as a surname Paynter. Platner, a maker of dishes and plates. Surname Piatt. Plumber remains in surname as Plumer and Plummer. Potter, maker of common pots. The name remains both as Potter and Potts. Quiller, also Keeler, the dresser of quilled ruffs and collars, such as were worn in the reign of Elizabeth. Salter, also Saltman, as salt-boiler. Sawyer, self-explanatory. Sexton, also as Saxton, for Sacristan. Skinner, one who prepared skins for the tanyard. As a surname, Skiner. Smith, a general term. There were Whitesmiths, i.e., Tinmen, Goldsmiths, Brownsmiths, Blacksmiths, Arrowsmiths, Spearsmiths, Nailsmiths, etc. Spooner, maker of spoons in wood and horn. Sreyner, the maker of steenes, or stone jars, out of white clay. The surname remains as Steyner or Stayner. Tailor, variously spelled as a surname, in the vain hope to disguise its humble and somewhat despised origin. Tanner needs no explanation. Tapiser, a tapistry worker, contracted to Tapster. Turner, spelled as a surname also Tumour. Tyler, tilemaker; sometimes Tittler. Walker. Cloth before the introduction of the roller had to be trodden underfoot. In Wyckliffe's version of the transfiguration he describes Christ's raiment as shining so as no "fullers or walkers of cloth" could whiten. Wayte, a watchman (Old French, guet), hence the surnames Wade, Gates, Yates, and Wakeman. Weaver, came as Webber, and Webster. Whittier, a white Tawier; one who prepares the finer skins for gloves.

Third Week in March. the song or lyric. A song or lyric is an expression of emotion in musical words. It usually bursts forth when "the heart is so full that a drop overfills it." At such times, one is most likely to pour out one's feelings in a song of joy or sorrow, according to the emotion that fills the heart. Most of us depend on others to create for us the songs we sing, but few persons like Bobbie Burns and Stephen Foster, or our own Eliza R. Snow, Chas. W. Penrose, Emily Hill Woodmansee, Emmeline B. Wells, Parley P. Pratt, Orson F. Whitney, Henry W. Naisbitt, John Jacques, and Evan Stephens, have the gift to sing like the meadowlark, their own feelings in their own way. Such gifted persons become a voice for all, expressing the emotions of others, stirring their souls, and shaping their sentiments. It is truly a wonderful gift this art of songwriting, and it is one that may be used for good or for ill. Three things characterize the best songs: music, feeling, and word beauty. In our choicest lyrics, the words seem to flow like liquid silver. Read aloud these lines and listen:

"Soft o'er the fountains, Lingering falls the southern moon, While o'er the mountains Breaks the day too soon." From Juanita.

And to these:

"O my Father, thou that dwellest In that high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence And again behold thy face?"

Voice these songs in full, or take other sweet songs, such as "Annie Laurie," "O awake, my slumbering minstrel," "O ye mountains high," "Down on the Suwanee River," "Love at Home," and observe how the words melt into one another, as the beautiful sentiments and pictures of life are expressed. The true song does not tell a story. It simply sings. Nevertheless, a story is usually suggested by the song. For example, in "My Old Kentucky Home" are these lines:

"Bimeby hard times comes a knockin' at de door, Den my old Kentucky Home, goodnight. Weep no more, my lady, Oh weep no more today, We will sing one song for my old Kentucky Home, For my old Kentucky Home far away."

No story is told here, yet between the lines one can read the tale common to the times of slavery, when the negroes were sold from a happy home and sent far away down the river. In their song, they are trying to console their mistress.

BALLADS. In some songs the story is even plainer than this. It is sketched for us. Such songs are called ballads.

The ballad is a song story, or a story told in song. In earlier times, the ballad was very popular. Many of our old legends like those about Robin Hood have been brought down to us in the form of ballads. A fairly good illustration of the ballad is the old song, "Mistletoe Bough" or "Nellie Gray," beginning, "Oh my darling Nellie Gray, they have taken her away," etc. But whether the story is sketched, as in the ballad, or merely suggested as in other songs, this seems true: Back of every song there lies a story. It may be so hidden that one cannot easily find it, nevertheless, it is there. Some incident of life, some train of events, generally leads up to the writing of a song. Instances to illustrate this point are numerous. 

We feel the pathos and the pain of renunciation as well as the calm of death expressed in the exquisite hymn of Henry W. Naisbitt written on the death of his close friend, President Joseph Young: 

Rest for the weary soul, 
Rest for the aching head. 
Rest, on the hillside, rest, 
With the great uncounted dead. 

When Cardinal Newman was once returning from a visit to the Holy Land, he lay on his cot one night on the deck of the steamer as it was plowing its way through the Mediterranean sea. The good man had been distressed with religious doubt and uncertainty; was now ill of body. As he lay there tossing in discomfort, he saw off through the gloom a little star towards which the vessel seemed to be going. As he watched it, a feeling of sweet calm came over his soul, and out of it came this beautiful expression: 

"Lead, kindly light, lead thou me on, 
The night is dark, and I am far from home, 
Lead thou me on." 

Find the remainder of these two great songs and enjoy them with the story just told to help enrich the meaning of its musical lines. One gets an added beauty with any song when one knows something of the story that lies back of it. Our appreciation of "Home, Sweet Home" is enhanced when we know that John Howard Payne wrote the song while he was wandering alone in a foreign land. We get a keener thrill from the stirring lines of the "Star Spangled Banner," when we realize that the author, Francis Scott Key, wrote them while he was a prisoner on the deck of a British warship. He had watched all night with anxious heart the fate of the battle that was raging around him. When the morning broke to show the old "red, white and blue" still waving above the ramparts, he drew from his pocket a letter, and on this he penned the words that have thrilled the hearts of true Americans ever since. 

The beautiful stories that lie back of many of our own hymns give them new light and meaning. "Come, Come, ye Saints" was written by William Clayton, at the request of the great Prophet-leader, President Young, as a song of cheer to shorten the weary stretches of the plains, and to give added courage to those hearts to dare the hardships of that desert march. The soul-stirring history of the Latter-day Saints is easily read in their hymn book, when one learns how to read the story that is between the lines of their songs. So, too, may we hear the heart beats of the Hebrews of old in the songs that inspired the Bible. When Moses, for example, had delivered Israel from bondage, when Pharaoh and his host had been destroyed, the people, under the leadership of Moses, broke into an anthem of praise and rejoicing beginning thus: "I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously, Exodus. The horse and the rider hath he thrown into the sea." When Hannah is given a son, in answer to her pleadings with the Lord, she breaks forth into a song of rejoicing and praise. David, too, when Saul and Jonathan are slain, expresses grief in a great song of sorrow. And Deborah sings her martial strain of victory while Mary voices motherhood for all time in her Magnificat. All through the Holy Book are found other songs that reveal the feelings of the people. "Our sweetest songs," says Shelley, "are those that tell of saddest thought." There is much of truth in what the poet says. Songs like "Old Black Joe," "Way Down Upon the Suwanee River," and many others of our most beautiful songs are suggestive of sorrow.

We love to sing these sadly sweet songs; but there are many other songs we should also sing that are not at all sorrowful. Songs like "The Lord is my Shepherd" and "O my Father" are sublimely beautiful and full of comfort. We need more pure songs of good cheer. A rollicking song of innocent fun is a tonic to the weary heart. The trouble with our so-called funny songs too often is this: they are suggestive of evil and are sometimes vulgar. Such songs are out of place anywhere; yet, they frequently find their way into our homes, where they sow their poisoned thoughts and false sentiments. There is no more important work before the parents than that of selecting the music that goes into their homes. In these days when the choicest songs are available, there is no excuse for feeding our hearts on any but the purest and the best. In choosing the songs for our homes, we should always put them to this test: What pictures of life, what sentiments, do they bring to our minds and hearts? Music may lead us to heaven or to evil places; it depends upon the music. "Give me the privilege of writing the songs of a people, and I care not who makes their laws," a saying of one great philosopher. Let this be our third guiding principle: The songs that find their way into our homes must suggest pure stories and uplifting sentiments.

1. What is a song?
2. Why may the song-writer be called "a voice for all?"
3. Who among our own people have earned this title by creating beautiful songs? Name some of these poets and tell what are their most popular songs.
4. What characterizes the words of a beautiful song? Illustrate by quoting a line or two from some song you love.
5. What is meant by this remark? "Back of the song there lies a story." Illustrate by telling the story that some song suggests to you, or by telling how some author came to write a certain song. For example, what story is suggested by "School thy Feelings," and "Oh, say what is Truth," and "Hail to the Prophet."
6. How does it help a song to know the story that is connected with it?
7. Show how the history of the Latter-day Saints is reflected in some of their hymns.
8. Show how the song is used in the Bible to express the feelings of the people of Israel at certain times.
9. What is the danger in many of the songs that are being sung today? Where do they come from?
10. What practical steps can be taken to get purer, more uplifting songs in our homes?

LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in March.

A. Bottle-fed Babies.

In the preceding lesson I emphasized the necessity of maintaining the baby on the breast during the first year of life. In the Great Ormond Street Hospital of London, England, statistics taken over a long period of time show the death rate from dysentery during the hot summer months to be ninety-six per cent in bottle-fed babies. These same statistics will be borne out in all congested districts. The treatment of dysentery in breast-fed babies is a comparatively simple proposition, but with the bottle-fed babies the physician is taxed to his utmost ingenuity. Mother's milk is the natural food. It contains unknown elements which we cannot analyze and, therefore, cannot duplicate in any of our milk modifications. Perhaps the principal source of trouble with bottle babies comes from the frequent contamination of the food. In spite of the most extreme care exercised on the part of the mother in the preparation of the food, bacteria will find their way into the milk and produce subsequent trouble. A bottle of milk allowed to stand in the sun for one hour will develop millions of organisms which will cause dysentery or other intestinal disorders. Mothers frequently make complaint at the extreme caution enforced by the physician in the preparation of food for the babies. If they will just keep in mind this rapid development of bacteria, they will realize the necessity for the greatest of care. In order to avoid contamination as much as possible, the food for the entire twenty-four hours should be prepared at one time. Six or seven bottles should be obtained, preferably the narrow neck bottles, for reasons that will be seen later. The food should be prepared and put in the bottles and then placed on ice and kept there until feeding time. They should then be placed in hot water to bring them to the proper temperature, and fed immediately.

If these directions are followed there will only be necessity for handling the milk once, thus lessening the danger of contamination. A plug of sterile absorbent cotton should be placed in the neck of the bottle to serve as a cork. This keeps out bacteria but allows the entrance of air. The large neck bottles are easier to be kept clean than the narrow neck but you cannot properly cover them with absorbent cotton and are compelled to pour your food from a large container into the bottle at each feeding. The bottles should be scalded thoroughly each morning before filling with the food and rinsed out with a solution of borax water. Nipples should be scalded every day and kept in boric acid solution. If these directions are followed out carefully in the preparation of the bottles and the nipples the danger of contamination is reduced to a minimum and the death rate from dysentery would be greatly reduced.

B. Modification of Cows Milk: When the baby has reached proper age for weaning, or when from any cause your physician deems it necessary to wean from the breast, nothing but a modified cow's milk mixture should be considered. The child's food should contain in proper proportion all of the good elements—carbohydrates, fats, salts, proteins and water. If any one of these food elements is neglected, although the child may apparently be well, he will, in time, show signs of trouble to the experienced eye. Fixed formulas for the modification of milk are impossible because every child has to be fed according to its weight and condition of nutrition. Guess work in the feeding of babies is responsible for more deaths than the infectious diseases. A careful estimation should be made by the physician as to the exact number of calories of food the child requires during the twenty-four hours and the formula should be worked out from this basis. The condition of nutrition must be considered carefully, otherwise, one is very apt to include in the formula too much or too little of one of the food elements—for example, a fat, flabby baby, slow in teething, slow in walking, yet of over-weight for its age, should not receive as much fat in its food as the child that is thin and emaciated and under-weight. The reason why mothers so frequently have difficulty in feeding their babies is because the formula is not worked out along these lines and the result is that they try every food that is recommended. For a delicate babe they modify cow's milk; they try Eskay's, Mellin's, Horlicks and all of the rest of the proprietary infant foods until finally the child reaches a stage where the physician has to take the case in hand, and there is no more difficult case in medicine than the feeding of such a child. Rickets and scurvy, the common diseases of the second year of childhood—the causes of lowered vitality—are the results of these errors in feeding. A few simple rules will help mothers with normal children. The child should be fed from one to two ounces more than its age in months at each feeding. With the minimum of three ounces and the maximum of eight to the feeding—for example, a child three months old should be given from three and one-half to four ounces of food every three hours; a child six months old should be given from six to eight ounces of food every three hours. The younger the child the greater the dilution of the milk should be. With babies under four months of age I usually begin with the two-thirds milk and one-third water mixture. As the child increases in age the strength of the milk can be increased until at the age of one year the child is getting all milk without any modification. The sugar to be used should be some form of malt, since it is much more easily digested than any other form of sugar. Milk-sugar has been too widely recommended and used. It is very frequently the cause of severe nutritional disorders in childhood. Dextrimaltose is a very excellent form and is most easily assimilated by babies. For the average child from one to one and one-half ounces of sugar should be given in twenty-four hours. Other than these few points no definite rules can be given. A careful record of the weekly gain in weight should be kept with all bottle-fed babies since the scales are the most reliable guide as to when the baby is getting enough or when we are over-feeding.

C. Proprietary Foods: There is no doubt but that the proprietary foods play a part in infant feeding.

By proprietary food, I mean Mellin's, Horlick's Malted Milk, Dennos, Eskay's, Nestles,