[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 826 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Ellen C. Henderson, eighty-three, a native Utahn, has finished a year's service with VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) in Las Vegas, Nevada, and is now teaching in New York City. Teaching children and illiterate adults to read is her specialty. Several books written by her on this subject have been used in schools in various States of the Union, and one, of which she is co-author, is recently off the press. Mrs. Henderson, one of the earliest instructors in speech therapy at the University of Utah, taught at the Indian School at Brigham City, Utah, for seven years. Dr. Virginia Apgar is Director of the Division of Congenital Malformations, of the National Foundation — March of Dimes; also Honorary Fellow, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. She stresses the fact that the pregnant woman takes care of her baby by taking care of herself. Miss Lenore Tawney, a former sculptress, of New York, is an outstanding figure in the American handcraft revival. She weaves shimmering fabrics, principally of black and _ uncolored fibers, using yarns of varying textures and densities, to achieve a sculpturelike effect in her weaving. The suspended bamboo rods, over which she divides her yarn, remain part of the finished product, which may also incorporate some pigeon feathers and fish bones. These are used as wall hangings, and are very beautiful. Diane Erickson, wife of a schoolteacher at Anchor Point, on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, and mother of three children, has won recognition as a painter of Alaska's rugged mountains and ''wild blue waters.'' Her work has been displayed at many exhibits and acclaimed as presenting with grandeur 'fone part of the earth as it was when God created it."' Phyllis S. Peterson, mother of two children, a stockbroker and partner in the firm of Sayd & Company, Washington, D. C., is one of two women ever to be members of the American Stock Exchange in its 116 years of history. The other woman was Julia Montgomery Walsh, a general partner in Ferris and Company, also of Washington. Marty Mann is director of the United States Council on Alcoholism. An important part of her work is to plan and supervise organizations and _ institutions which endeavor to rehabilitate alcoholics, and to prevent teenagers from becoming alcoholics. Carol Beery Davis, wife of Trevor Davis, famous Alaskan photographer, and a graduate in music from the University of Washington, has been a remarkably. Successful music teacher in Juneau, Alaska, for many years. Recently the Juneau-Douglas Concert Association established a music scholarship in her honor. Her booklet ''Songs of the Totem,'' is composed of the haunting melodies of the Tlingit Indians. Three of Mrs. Davis' four daughters are distinguished musicians. Dorothy J.