[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 868 | Home | Social Relations — Heirs to the Kingdom | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2—Heirs to the Kingdom Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 17 and 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To point out some general aspects of gospel ordinances and to point out that the ordinance of baptism is not essential to the redemption of little children. INTRODUCTION The following conversation overheard immediately preceding and at the conclusion of an informal lecture, is particularly relevant to this, and two subsequent lessons: Friend A. I don't know exactly why I am in this audience today. I know all about the subject to be discussed. Friend B. (at the conclusion of the informal lecture) Why didn't you raise your hand when the speaker asked the questions? I thought you knew all about the subject. Friend A. Well, I thought I did know the subject, but when it came to giving concrete, specific answers, I simply didn't know them. Friend B. You mean there is a difference between knowing about a subject and actually knowing the facts? Friend A. Very definitely. I am so grateful that I came today. Relief Society women are generally familiar with the blessings and purposes of the ordinances of the Church, administered by bearers of the Priesthood. They often may not be informed, however, as to the scriptural sources and full dimensions of these ordinances, nor with the meaningful facts with which they are as- 868 sociated. While all gospel ordinances are an expression of the divine will, designed for the good and blessings of mankind, not all ordinances are of equal importance in relation to man's salvation. This lesson will outline briefly the plan of salvation and will discuss some of the ordinances which are associated with this gospel plan. GOSPEL ORDINANCES When the scriptures speak of ordinances, generally, they mean the law and requirements which God has instituted for the salvation of man, as illustrated by the following statement: "And this shall be our covenant—that we will walk in all the ordinances of the Lord" (D&C 136:4). In this lesson the term ordinance refers to rites and ceremonies of the gospel which are performed by the authority of the Priesthood for the blessing and salvation of man. An essential feature of all gospel ordinances is that they must be performed by authority of the Priesthood, for he who performs the ordinance must be endowed with power and authority to act in place of the Master. The Priesthood bearer evidences this requirement when he states that the ordinance is performed in the name of Jesus Christ, and by authority of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. Those gospel ordinances which are essential for entrance and exaltation in the celestial kingdom are known as ordinances of salvation. Those ordinances which are not a requisite for salvation, and which are given to bless, encourage, and for adminstration are known as ordinances of administration. Class Discussion Why and where would you classify the following ordinances of the Church? Blessing and naming of infants. Healing the sick. Giving a patriarchal blessing. Setting an individual apart for a position in the Church. Baptizing an individual. Temple ordinances. Eo PANE SALVATION OFFERED TO MAN Of God the Father, and our relationship to him, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself, finding he was in the midst of spirits and glory, because he was more intelligent, saw proper to institute laws whereby the rest could have a privilege to advance like himself. The relationship we have with God places us in a situation to advance in knowledge. He has power to institute laws to instruct the weaker intelligences, that they may be exalted with himself, so that they might have one glory upon another, and all that knowledge, power, glory, and intelligence, which is requisite in order to save them in the world of spirits. As spirit children of God, we dwelt with him in a pre-earth » asked: LESSON DEPARTMENT life. We knew him as a glorified, exalted Personage, who possessed both immortality and eternal life. We knew him as the Author of the plan of salvation, providing the laws and the means whereby his spirit children might be saved. His plan, based upon the law of free agency, "called for a preexistent life of preparation, a period of mortal probation, and a separation of body and _ spirit called death, a resurrection for all men, and an inheritance of eternal life for such of his spirit 'children as obeyed the fulness of his laws." This plan of the Father required that an atoning sacrifice be made by one of his spirit children who would be born into the world as his Son, "'thus inheriting from him the power of immortality." CHRIST THE APPOINTED REDEEMER Familiar to all Latter-day Saints is the truth that he whom we know as Jesus of Nazareth was chosen in that premortal life to become the Christ, that Son who would make the atoning sacrifice for all mankind. They know that during his ministry among men, he set the perfect example as to how men must live in order to inherit eternal life. They know that he kept all the commandments of God, that he taught the doctrine of the gospel, that he performed ordinances, healed the sick, wrought miracles through the divine power inherent within him. The question is sometimes "If God is the Author of the plan of salvation, why do we speak of the gospel as the gospel of Jesus Christ?"'"'Because he accepted and advocated the Fa- 


 ther's plan of salvation, thus adopting it as his own, he became the Author of eternal salvation unto all them that believe. This plan of salvation is known as the gospel of Christ." Relevant to this truth is the following scripture:... Salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent (Mosiah 3:18). In Jesus The Christ we read: the Father operated in the work of creation through the Son, who thus became the executive through whom the will, commandment, or word of the Father was put into effect. The part taken by Jesus Christ in the creation, a part so prominent as to justify our calling Him the Creator, is set forth in many scriptures (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus The Christ, page 33). Thus we see that "Christ, as God, possesses the power of his Father. He, too, can do all things necessary to save and exalt the spirit children of the Father. Christ, accordingly, became both the Creator and the Redeemer of the world—the creation and the redemption being the two great events without which there could be no salvation." OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF GOD The ordinance of naming and blessing a child, although not essential to its salvation, is of special importance in establishing and maintaining its identity upon the records of the Church, and is a blessing to both child and parents. 1. In what ways may the blessing of a child involve the parents? 2. How may the ordinance of blessing children contribute to unity within a family? 870 3. How may this ordinance impress parents as to their parental responsibility to guide their children in light and truth? The ancient disciples apparently were concerned about the ordinance of blessing children, since they rebuked those who brought their children to Jesus to be blessed: But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God (Mark 10:14). And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them (Mark 10:16). From The Book of Mormon we read this impressive scripture: And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them (3 Nephi 17:21). ESSENTIAL ORDINANCES Since the ordinances of salvation are essential for exaltation in the celestial kingdom, and since baptism is an essential ordinance, no accountable person can be saved in this kingdom witL ut benefit of this sacred ordinance. This truth necessitates the vicarious baptism for the dead. For Discussion: How does this fact evidence the law of divine justice? How does this essential ordinance relate to children who die in infancy and therefore have: not reached the age of accountability? HEIRS TO THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM Both ancient and modern revelation assures parents that their children who die in infancy (and therefore are not accountable) are automatically heirs to the celestial kingdom and do not need the ordinance of baptism. The Lord revealed to Joseph Smith the truth that, Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God (D&C 93:38). But behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29: 46-47). Thus, the spirit children of God leave his presence and enter mortality free from sin, having no need for repentance until they arrive at an age of accountability. Should they die in this state of purity, they are automatically qualified to return to the celestial presence of God the Father from which they came. They will not, however, attain exaltation "in that kingdom until they have complied with all the requirements of that kingdom" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2:54). How comforting to all parents whose children have died in infancy to learn the glorious doctrine which President Joseph Fielding Smith expresses in these words: The Lord is just and will not deprive any person of a blessing, simply because he dies before that blessing can be received. Jt would be manifestly unfair to deprive a little child of the privilege of receiving all the blessings of exaltation in the world to come simply because it died in infancy. LESSON DEPARTMENT The same thing is true of the young men who were deprived of these blessings and laid down their lives during 'he war. The Lord judges every soul by the intent of the heart. All that we need do for children [before accountability] is to have them sealed to their parents. They need no baptism and never will, for our Lord has performed all the work necessary for them. Children who die in childhood will not be deprived of any blessing. When they grow after the resurrection, to the full maturity of the spirit, they will be entitled to all the blessings which they would have been entitled to had they been privileged to tarry here and receive them (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2: 54). The significance of this gospel doctrine can 'be more fully realized by a parent whose infant has been taken by death and who has heretofore believed that child to be lost forever. LIFE STORY Sister "R" was a parent, having lost two children in infancy before they had been christened. Her grief was not to be assuaged. One day two Latter-day Saint missionaries called at her home. When these young men, with a message of truth, told her that all children who die before the age of accountability need no baptism, for they are saved in the celestial kingdom, she asked eagerly for scriptural proof. One of the missionaries opening the Bible recalled the words of the Savior: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10: 14). For a fuller explanation he then opened The Book of Mormon. How sweet to her were these comforting words: 


 Behold I say unto yon that this shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of sins (Moroni 8:10-11). Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy (Moroni 8:19).. Wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children (Moroni 8:9). Sister "R" is now a devoted member of the Church, the door of a receptive mind having been opened through this important gospel truth. Of like comfort to many families is the message by President Joseph Fielding Smith in these words: Mentally deficient persons, those who are incompetent of understanding, are classed among those who are redeemed as little children through the atonement of our Redeemer. They need no baptism (Doctrines of Salvation, 2:55-56). One may ask, if baptism is for the remission of sin, why was Jesus of Nazareth, who was withRESOLUTION Estella S. Johnson Age eighty-three out sin, baptized? It is evident from the fact that he was baptized by immersion of John the Baptist that there are other considerations. The following lesson will discuss those aspects of this saving ordinance. CONCLUSION The gospel of Christ is a gospel of blessings to all mankind; ordained to bring peace, honor, and progress toward ultimate perfection to the spirit children of the Father. To the extent that they keep its foreordained commandments, performing the ordinances of salvation which are an inseparable factor, this perfection will be attained. How blest are they who are humble enough for faith; who develop the spiritual insight to understand, to know, and to obey! FOR DISCUSSION Questions that arise during the lesson development. FOR HOME DOING If available, read lesson 17 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, for 1967. Check to see if there are any children in your family who have reached the age of accountability who have not as yet been baptized. Help your children to know that the Savior loves them. Help them to understand and cherish the gospel ordinances they may receive while in childhood and in youth. My hands got too tired to work on a rug, My eyes with cataracts sore, I said to a heavy quilt I was making ll never look at you more. So after my flowers got hit with the frost, I picked up my tablet and pen; They can call, they can shout, They can let the calves out, I'll never be bothered again.