[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 832 | Home | Comfort Your Baby | Shirley Thulin]
Comfort Your Baby Shirley Thulin @ Here is an idea so attractive and inexpensive you will want to make one for every special baby in your life. This beautiful comforter and crib bumper (covering for the sides of the crib) can be made for less than a third of what you would pay for them at the stores, and are so serviceable and easy to do, you will be pleased with the results. All you need is one double bed sheet (81" x 108"), one large quiltsize batting, two packages of 114" white blanket binding, one package of white bias tape and one skein of white nylon yarn (for tying the tufts). The sheet should be of a pastel color. Yellow or pale green are pretty choices. If you choose dacron batting, rather than wool or cotton, the comforter will have more washability. If you already have some nylon yarn, it would not need to be all the same color. This would be a good project to use some of your odds and ends, as a sprinkling of colored yarn would add a decorative touch. Use only nylon, however, because wool will shrink and pull tight, spoiling the comforter. Be sure to unpick the hems and pre-wash your sheet, as many sheets shrink at least five inches with the 81" COMFORTER COMFORTER BOTTOM TOP 60" ow:. = =5 aE mon oe Oo 45" >I <- 45"; CRIB BUMPER TOP 14" <= 81" Je IK first washing. Also, remember that the stated size of the sheet is the size before it was hemmed at the factory. Now press the sheet and cut as in the diagram. The laundered sheet, with the hems ripped, will measure about 81" x 103". Next, mark with tiny pencil dots, on the comforter top, where the tufts will go. They should be about 4 inches apart. If you place the tufts in even rows 414" from the side edge and 4" from the top edge, this gives even spacing with rows of 10 tufts across the width of the comforter, and 14 tufts down the length. Now place two layers of batting between the top and bottom pieces of the comforter. If you don't have quilting frames, you can place the quilt on the carpeted floor to tuft it. Just place the bottom of the comforter on the floor first, then the two layers of the batting, then cover with the top piece of the comforter. Now thread a large needle with a length of yarn and, using double threads, 10. 9 make a running stitch, taking a stitch at every tufting mark of the entire quilt. Cut the yarn halfway between each stitch and tie (in a double knot) the ends to make a tuft. Now bind the entire comforter with blanket binding, being sure to miter the corners for neatness. To make the bumper, which is separate from the comforter, and which is used to protect the baby from getting his head through the bars, cut as in diagram and mark the tufting on the top piece, which is the 14" piece. The tuft marks should be 4" apart. Place a double layer of batting between the top and bottom and tuft as you did the comforter. Now fold the bumper down the long way, with tufts to the outside, making the bumper 80" long and 7" wide. Stitch the double edges all along, turning the raw edges under. This makes a nice, thick bumper. Now, with the bias tape, place ties, stitched securely, where needed to tie to crib corners.