[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 851 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities ^ | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities ^]

Reno Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Concert Fallon, Nevada, May 12, and Reno, Nevada, May 13, 1966 Dorothea J. Folsom, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "We are delighted with the success of the first Singing Mothers concert held in Reno Stake. The Singing Mothers are now known to the general public of this area. They were enthusiastically received. The program was of sacred and secular music, along with specialty numbers, with interest for all ages. The script for the concert was written and narrated by Carol Martin. We are so pleased with the response to this concert, and have had many requests to make it an annual affair. We wish to pay special tribute to our very talented chorister Glenda Luekenga, who arranged the program and worked so diligently to make the concert possible. We traveled with her to each ward for rehearsals, and she was truly an inspiration to all. It was an outstanding accomplishment to bring the sisters together from widely scattered wards, one as far away as 140 miles, another ninety miles, and some sixty-five miles—to blend their voices in sweet song was truly a thrill.". Insert: Chorister Glenda Luekenga 851 Wayne Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Serving Thirty Years Honored at Social May 5, 1966 Front row, left to vigilate Artie Taft; Eva Albrecht; Maud Pace; Emma Jane Brinkerhoff; Nettie Brian; Loa Johansen. Second row, left to right: Lula Taylor; Emma Forsyth; Laura Behunin; Roxie Jackson; Mary Duncan; Amanda Chidester; Annie DeLeeuw. Back row, standing, left to right: Pearl DeLeeuw, Dorthy Taylor; Della Nelson; Grace Baker; Addie Jackson; Belle Allen; Lela Chappell; Rena Chappell. Ora C. Morrell, President, Wayne Stake Relief Society, reports: "Special recognition was given to the active visiting teachers who have served thirty years or more, and special honor was given to Nettie Brian and Nellie Cannon (not in picture) who have served for fifty years and are still serving. A dramatization 'Beyond Each Door' was presented. The stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, directed by chorister Viola Rees, accompanied by Lola Brown." Danish Mission Relief Society Conference June 4-5, 1966 Relief Society officers, front row, beginning fourth from the right, left to right: Tove Bernskov, Secretary-Treasurer; Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor; Inger Rasmussen, President; Edith Christensen, Counselor. Ingrid A. Sorensen, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, rpeorts: "On Saturday, June 4th, all the sisters who had traveled to Copenhagen from the outlying districts and Jutland were served breakfast. At 7:30 the Singing Mothers attended a practice for the combined choruses from Copenhagen and Jutland. At 9:30 all the sisters attending the conference were welcomed by the mission leaders, after which they separated into departmental work. At eleven o'clock everyone enjoyed the film 'A Light Shining.' After this presentation, the sisters boarded buses for Tivoli Gardens, where each received a lunch. The buses then returned everyone to the church where a fashion show was presented. At 5:30 everyone gathered for a delicious banquet. Some of the sisters presenied a clever skit which everyone enjoyed. The day ended with a concert held in the chapel. The Singing Mothers presented several numbers, as well as other singing groups from the different branches.. "The conference continued Sunday morning with a meeting for the Relief Society leaders. Other members of Relief Society attended Sunday School and testimony meeting in the different branches in Copenhagen. In the afternoon the main session of conference was held and a spiritual feast was enjoyed. After the meeting all those from outside Copenhagen were given a sack of fresh fruit to eat while traveling home. Many fine comments were heard from those who attended the conference, and everyone seemed to be spiritually uplifted and rejuvenated." Toronto (Canada) Stake Relief Society Presents ''A Flight Into Fashion" June 4, 1966 In the picture, Sandra Gill is wearing a dress which she made, and is representative of the fifty-two models who appeared in the "Flight Into Fashion," wearing costumes which they sewed for themselves. Marjorie Innis, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Three hundred fifty Relief Society. Sisters, their husbands, and friends attended an evening dinner and entertainment, June 4, 1966. The models demonstrated the lovely garments which could be made at very little cost, and how Relief Society contributes to the growth and development of our talents. The tables in the cultural hall were tastefully decorated with lilacs. The stage decor typified a spring garden complete with bubbling fountain, trees, and flowers. The combined stake Singing Mothers chorus contributed some beautiful music to the outstanding program. The food was delicious. Many commented that this was the nicest affair they had attended since joining the Church." 852 New Jersey Stake Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts April 20th and April 22nd, 1966 The chorister Maleka Brown stands at the piano; accompanist Ann Park seated at the piano; Ella H. Farnsworth, President, New Jersey Stake Relief Society, at the left on the back row; Alma Saunders, Secretary-Treasurer, at the right on the first row.; Sister Farnsworth reports: "Using as a theme 'Our Promised Valleys,' the Singing Mothers presented two concerts. The program selections covered a variety of musical styles, classical, religious, and contemporary. A narration developed the basic theme that in each heart there are many 'promised valleys' to be discovered. The first concert was presented in the Short Hills Ward chapel, with about four hundred people in attendance including many friends and investigators. After the concert, the audience was invited into the cultural hall, where exhibits from each Relief Society department were displayed and refreshments served. "The second concert was presented in Cranbury, New Jersey, in response to a request from a non-Latter-day Saint group of women who had been impressed by the singing at a concert last year. There were over 250 nonmembers in the audience, who were enthusiastic in their appreciation. The chorus was invited to present another program next year, and two new invitations for further concerts were received. The group was part of the chorus which previously sang at the New York World's Fair, and for two consecutive years at the 'Mother of the Year' awards presentation." NOVEMBER 1966 Florida Mission Relief Society Convention June 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: President Elroy Stapleton, First Counselor, Florida Mission; Jeanette Owens, Counselor, Georgia-Florida District Relief Society; Florida Mission Relief Society officers: Lena Bruner, SecretaryTreasurer; Ruby Powell, Counselor; Mildred Barlow, Counselor; Moneta Oates, President; Linnie F. Montierth, guest speaker; Tracy Dinkins, President, Gulf District Relief Society; Elvia Peters, President, West Florida District Relief Society; President Lincoln Barlow, Counselor, Florida Mission, and Relief Society advisor. Sister Oates reports: "The annual Florida Mission Relief Society Convention was held at the new West Florida Stake Center in Tallahassee. We were thrilled at the attendance of over 125. Many of the sisters from the Gulf District had to leave their homes at three o'clock in the morning to be in attendance. Our theme was 'Home Is My Harbor.' The Georgia-Florida District, under the direction of Jeanette Owens, presented the play 'Home Is My Harbor,' which was one of the highlights of the convention. Sister Oates spoke on 'Home Is Our Harbor,' and President and Sister Barlow spoke on 'The Ideal Latter-day Saint Woman, Wife, and Mother,' and 'Attaining Ideal Latter-day Saint Womanhood Through Service in Relief Society,' respectively. Our guest speakers were President Zeniff D. Harrison, who spoke on "The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Boys Successfully,' and Linnie F. Montierth, who spoke on "The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Girls Successfully.' The film strip 'And Then Came the Women' was presented. Lovely musical numbers were presented by the West Florida District, under the direction of Elvia Peters, and by the Gulf District, under direction of Tracy Dinkins. Informative departments were held, and a small potted plant was presented to each sister as a token of love and appreciation for her faithful labors. A delicious luncheon was served under the direction of Ellen Bryan, President, Tallahassee Branch Relief Society." Leeds Stake (England), Sheffield Ward Relief Society Closing Social June 28, 1966 Standing, left to right: Margaret Phillipson (partly visible); Irene M. Bustin; Bessie Nettleship; E. Mary Brownlow; A. Margaret Parsons; Katrina Melbourne; Helen Bell (partly visible). Seated, left to right: Lily Machell; Vera Beattie; Sister Lakin (Sister Beattie's mother (partly visible). Margaret Greenfield, President, Sheffield Ward Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a social given for the Relief Society sisters, marking the end of the winter lessons, but held over to June 28th, being the last Tuesday that Vera Beattie would be with us before leaving Sheffield with her husband and son Roger. (Their eldest son, John, is at present away at University.) We decided this social should be held in Sister Beattie's honor. She has been a member of the Church all of her life, and a valuable worker, being President of Leeds Stake Relief Society when the opportunity was presented to Brother Beattie to work in the London Temple as an electrician. We shall miss them so much in Sheffield, but look forward to seeing them many times on temple visits. "The tablecloth in the picture was presented to Sister Beattie by Sister Bustin. The tablecloth was beautifully made, with the names of Sister Garlick, our homemaking leader, and the names of the other Relief Society sisters embroidered on it, giving the tablecloth a very effective appearance."