[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 816 | Special Feature | Report and Official Instructions | Belle S. Spafford]
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS the downtrodden, and disconsolate. It provides opportunity for women to develop their talents and enlarge upon their native endowments, and helps them to realize their full potential as women. It holds ever before them their divine mission as wives, mothers, and homemakers. Such a comprehensive program should enlist the active participation in Relief Society of every Latter-day Saint woman. None should feel justified in not holding membership in Relief Society regardless of what other responsibilities she may carry in the Church. COMPASSIONATE AND CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES The spirit of the gospel is a spirit of selfless service, and this is exemplified in the compassionate service program. Reports bear record that Relief Society sisters gave over 29,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care to the sick during 1965. There were approximately 400,000 visits to the sick and homebound, and approximately 700,000 hours of other types of compassionate service. Over 800 bodies were dressed for burial and assistance was given at more than 10,000 funerals. In reference to the care of the sick, it seems appropriate to remind you that as the life span is lengthened, disabling, but not necessarily terminal diseases, often attack older people. They seem to become prime targets for such cripplers as_ stroke, heart disease, cancer, emphysema, and arthritis. Many of them become accident prone and are victims of broken hips and other broken bones. Accidents, particularly highway accidents, 


 add to the list of the chronically disabled. Nursing care for such people is posing one of the serious health-care problems of our day. While hospitals provide primary care, long days of caring for the patient in the home setting must usually be faced. Families are often strained to the breaking point. In view of this, it seems appropriate to suggest that classes in home nursing be conducted by Relief Societies where 'such programs are feasible and where home nursing courses are available. We also urge Relief Society presidents to become knowledgeable regarding available nurse training programs for both practical and registered nurses. Our own Brigham Young University offers a four-year baccalaureate course and a two-year associate degree course. Where you know of a woman with nursing aptitude who may be in a position to avail herself of nurse training, encourage her to do so. Relief Society sisters continue their services to the Church Welfare program, as directed by their respective bishops. There were 110,000. Family visits made during 1965 with 87,000 other contacts with families receiving assistance. There were 55,000 Relief Society members who assisted on Welfare projects and approximately 750,- 000 hours were contributed by women to these projects. COURSES OF STUDY Courses of study taught by 24,- 000 class leaders deal with subjects that truly tend toward the elevation and advancement of women, and direct their thinking, mold their attitudes, and influence their actions along Churchapproved lines. In harmony with the correlation program, the lessons for the coming year are being prepared so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussions. The titles of the courses beginning in October 1966, reflect the concept of involvement. Theology is now designated Spiritual Living; Work meeting— Homemaking; Social Science — Social Relations; Literature, which will include some music and art, has taken on a new depth and will become Cultural Refinement. The General Board feels that there is being offered to Relief Society members through the Priesthood - coordinated courses of study an unusually valuable educational program. For the past two years special lessons prepared for Relief Societies requiring simplified _courses of study, and originally issued as "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies," have been issued by the General Board.

Volume 3 is now available through the General Board, office, price $2 postpaid. These lessons are a continuation of the courses of study contained in Volume 2 as follows: Lessons From The Book of Mormon; Latter-day Saint Church History; Gems of Truth From The Book of Mormon; Development Through Homemaking Education; 'Teaching the Gospel in the Home (three lessons); and On Earth and In Heaven (five lessons). Volume 1 "Lessons for Indian Relief Sccieties" ($1.25) and Volume 2 "Special Lessons for Relief Society" ($1.75) continue to be available. HOMEMAKING PROGRAM The homemaking program is one of Relief Society's attractive programs with the homemaking meeting continuing as the second best attended meeting. Last year there were 1,300,000 articles completed during this meeting. Of this number, nearly 800,000 were sewed articles with 175,000 being wearing apparel for men, women, and children. This is an excellent record of practical accomplishment. We caution you to hold the homemaking discussions within the recommended time. The homemaking meeting must allow time for the women to actively engage in learning homemaking skills and to see demonstrations of homemaking activities. It is also felt that effort must be made to preserve the informal social atmosphere of the day. Relative to the homemaking program, we call to your attention the following statement from the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions, page 97: The service of a professional person from outside the Society is sometimes enlisted by Relief Society officers in furthering certain aspects of the work meeting program. Professional help is valuable in training the women in some special homemaking activities; however, such professional persons should not independently plan the.... Meeting activities nor should they use the meeting to promote their own homemaking programs in substitution for programs planned by Relief Society officers assigned this responsibility. Professional persons from outside the organization who assist in the homemaking program should not be authorized to call meetings in the name of the Society nor to initiate or conduct REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS projects or programs involving Relief Society. Such matters are the jurisdiction of the Relief Society president. Relief Society is so organized that~> authoritative procedures must be _ respected. Responsibility for safeguarding the time, talent, and energies of Relief Society members, as such, rests with the Relief Society president and should not be relinquished to others regardless of their competency or professional standing. RELIEF SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS 1. Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine (English edition) which, at the end of 1965, had a paid circulation of 241,276—an increase of 9,345—is an important asset to our educational program, making available to the general membership the basic lesson material, thus promoting involvement of the members in class discussions. This, of course, is only one of the many educational values of the publication. 2. Magazine in Spanish We are delighted with the response of the Spanish-speaking sisters to the Magazine in the Spanish language. We are advised that the Spanish-speaking group of sisters is second in number to the English-speaking group. The first edition of the Spanish Magazine came from the press in June of this year. 3. Magazine Honor Roll A change is being made in the annual Magazine subscription report which is to be submitted at the end of the year. This year (1966) stake Magazine representatives will not be required to submit a report of the number of members enrolled and the num- 


 ber of subscriptions obtained during the year in the respective wards of their stake. Following November 15, a report will be sent by the General Board office to each stake Relief Society president for distribution to the stake Magazine representative, listing the number of members enrolled January 1, 1966 in each of the wards of the stake as indicated on the organization's annual report, together with a list of the subscription orders that have been received in the General Board office during the year and the number of subscriptions listed on each order. Stake Magazine representatives will be requested to check the report with the ward representatives and to report any discrepancies to the General Board office. They will also be requested to send a list of the names and addresses of the ward representatives. It will be necessary for this information to reach the General Board office not later than January 10. A delay may make it necessary to eliminate the stake from the Honor Roll. Upon receipt of this information, any necessary changes in either the number of members enrolled or the number of subscriptions will be made in the records at the General Board Magazine department and the percentages will be computed there and the Honor Roll compiled. Further details will accompany the report forms that will be sent to you. We feel this procedure will result in more accurate percentages and save the time of stake Magazine representatives. It will eliminate a great deal of correspondence that has been necessary in the Magazine de- 820 partment in the past concerning errors in the reports submitted to the General Board office. 4. History of Relief Society to be issued. We are pleased to announce that it is anticipated that a pictorial history of Relief Society covering the period 1842-1966 will be ready for distribution before the end of the year. It will contain a running history of the Society similar to that contained in the Centenary of Relief Society, together with sections giving more detailed information relative to the various programs and activities engaged in by Relief Society in the 124 years of its life. You will be advised later as to the exact date of the availability of the history, the price, and how and where to obtain it. FINANCIAL STATUS OF RELIEF SOCIETIES Reports indicate that Relief Societies, with rare exceptions, are in good financial condition. We especially commend the stake boards for their resourcefulness in maintaining themselves financially since garment earnings no longer accrue to Relief Society. It has been excellent training for the sisters and a source of great satisfaction to them through the years to. Have been able independently to finance their respective Relief Societies, thus justifying the confidence placed in them by the First Presidency in ruling that they do not go on Church budgets. VISITING TEACHING A vast corps of more than 125,000 visiting teachers continue the devoted service started in Nauvoo of visiting Latter-day Saint families "to search out the poor and suffering." Visiting teachers also convey a spiritual message based on_ scriptural truths. In excess of 4,500,000 visits were made during 1965— a marvelous record. We call attention to the importance of the oral reports being given in the visiting teacher meeting. We understand that in some instances presidents have discontinued oral reports, feeling that the present emphasis being placed on the confidential reports eliminated a need for the oral reports. Confidential reports in no way reduce the need for the oral reports. SINGING MOTHERS Singing Mothers choruses increased during 1965 by 112, making a total of 3,225 with over 44,000 sisters participating. The singing at quarterly conferences has been good, according to reports of General Board members. A number of special invitations to sing at important national events have been extended to certain stakes. We caution conductors, however, to use judgment in the number, and timing of rehearsals. Frequent and poorly timed rehearsals which work a hardship upon chorus members or which take them away from regularly scheduled Relief Society or Church activities could destroy the spirit and interfere with the ultimate success of the program. MERCHANDISING OPERATIONS DISAPPROVED We call your attention to an item in the Priesthood Bulletin of May-June, 1966, as follows: Stakes, wards, priesthood quorums or other Church units or organizations REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS are not to engage, as such, in merchandising operations for private gain of individuals. Neither are they to circularize the Church or large parts of it in an attempt to augment building or other funds through the sale of pamphlets, articles of merchandise, pictures of historic monuments or events, and the like. Units of the Church are requested not to solicit funds in other Church units outside of their own jurisdiction. AFFILIATIONS A number of requests have been received by the General Board for guidance as to whether Relief Society should affiliate as enrolled members with community organizations. The General Board does not endorse such affiliations. The General Board of Relief Society, which is the governing body of Relief Society internationally, holds membership in the National Council of Women of the United States. By virtue of this membership, it is an affiliate of the International Council of Women, and is usually represented at conferences of the International Council of Women. The General Board regularly sends a representative to the United States Council of Women conferences. In this way, Relief Society makes its contribution to the thinking and action of organized women of the free world. In turn, there is disseminated through the General Board such viewpoints and information from the councils as would be of value to the stake and mission Relief Societies. The General Board feels that Relief Society officers do not have the right to involve Relief Society members, as such, either directly or indirectly, in the work of other organizations through affiliation with such organiza- §


 tions. What the sisters do as individuals, of course, is their own responsibility. Relief Society officers may call upon the time and talents of Relief Society women for the work of Relief Society since the sisters have voluntarily joined Relief Society and must expect to make their contribution to it; but we do not feel that officers are justified in diverting the time and talents of Relief Society members to the service of other organizations. THE SECOND MILE Sisters, in your love for one another, in your love for the Church, and in your love for those who need you, be unafraid to go the second mile; but measure your labors according to your strengths and your resources. Do not let your enthusiasm outrun your judgment. Let responsibilities be shared by all, and let your labors be confined to the sphere assigned to Relief Society as an auxiliary of the Church.