[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 824 | General Feature | Editorial: "I Am the Light of the World" | Louise W. Madsen]
[Editorial: "I Am the Light of the World" Louise W. Madsen]

Reuben Clark EDITORIAL 

 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Eltiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner B24 trene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind ' Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West i am the Light af 1 am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life (John 8:12). As we commemorate the birth of the Savior with the advent of Christmas and we read and reread the various scriptural accounts of the birth of Jesus, the actual and spiritual meanings of the '"'light'' become more apparent. Every sign which announced his birth signified the coming of the great light to the darkened world. Prophecies of the circumstances that would attend his birth contained references to lights appearing in the heavens as well as the "Light" which would come to lift the veil of darkness from the minds of men. According to Luke, as the angel of the Lord came upon the ''shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night.... The glory of the Lord shone round about them,'' while the angel announced the birth of the Savior and the multitude of angels sang "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men"' (Luke 2:8, 9, 14). Matthew tells of the bright new star which led the three wise men from the east, ''and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was"' (Matt. 2:9). the Wo rf ff -» "'When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy"' (Matt. 2:10). The new star, '"'such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you,'' Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, told the people on the American Continent as he predicted the birth of the Savior. Helaman records that Samuel further prophesied that there would be "great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day'' (Helaman 14:3). I Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting... And it shall be the night before he is born (Helaman 14:4). The significance of the ''Light'' he brought into the world is even more marked when the contrast of the impenetrable darkness which covered the earth during his crucifixion is noted. But behold, as I said unto you concerning another sign, a sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead (Helaman 14:20). Great destruction accompanied the fearsome and oppressive darkness. Nothing could have more clearly or forcibly illustrated the condition of those who do not believe on him and must walk in darkness. What could be more plain or more graphically illustrated? I John states: ''In him [Christ] was life; and the life was the light of men.'' He speaks, also, of John the Baptist who "'was... Sent. To bear witness of the Light.... That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world'' (John 1: 4, 7, 9). Light represents all that is good and true, the gospel and the plan of salvation. The Light of Christ is love, it embodies faith, hope, and charity. It is all that is clean and pure and righteous. Perhaps there-is a significance of light at Christmastime that has deeper meaning than a casual observer may feel. Do we need the reminder this early before the Christmas season that we have a part in keeping this marvelous light alive, that he has entrusted his Church with the responsibilities of carrying his light to the souls of them who walk in darkness? Surely the brightly lighted Christmas world can help us remember that with the birth of the Savior light and hope and salvation came to man. As you place Christmas lights in your homes and see them in your cities, contemplate on the blessings coming from the "Light of the world,'' and ponder them in your hearts. —L. W. M.