[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 802 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I enjoy the stories, the beautiful pictures, the delicious: recipes, the lovely poems (which seem to just fit my needs), and the. Handwork. The. Magazine reminds me of the verse in the Bible: "He hath made everything beautiful in his time." Mrs. John Flowers Knoxville, Tennessee I wish to thank Mary Scopes for illustrating my story ''That Certain Sparkle"' (April 1966) so beautifully. She certainly adds that final touch that a story needs. The April issue is just wonderful throughout. I am sending a copy to a friend in Germany who was a mission mother to my son. She has learned the English language the past two years, and writes to me faithfully. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The Relief Society and the Magazine are both a tangible help in improving my marriage and in rearing four beautiful children—three boys and a girl my husband and I have been blessed with. Of particular interest to me are the thoughtful and well-written lessons in literature, and, of course, I especially like the poetry. Donna F. Swain St. Paul Park Minnesota The Relief Society Magazine was a gift from my mother-in-law five years ago, when I joined the Church. Since then, I have found helpful hints and beautiful stories and pictures to help in rearing my children, and in growing within myself. I hope the day will come when I will be able to pour out the joy I have received to help others. Although my mother is not a member of the Church, she also enjoys receiving the Magazine. Marlene Spriggs Covina, California I enjoy the Magazine so much, especially since I am not able to get out to meetings. I enjoy the poems and stories and the gospel messages. To see the pictures of the Singing Mothers brings back memories. I cannot sing very well since my-accident, but I am happy that so' many can sing. It is a wonderful privilege to sing in the Tabernacle, and I appreciate the opportunity I had to sing there, and partake of the Spirit of the Lord: in that house. Thanks, also, for the recipes in the Magazine, and the sewing and handwork features. I loved all the decorative features in the December Magazine. All of the covers are lovely, too. Martha Steffensen Brokaw Preston, Idaho May I say how very grateful I am 'for The Relief Society Magazine, and for the beautiful poems. As a convert, and as a recent emigrant to Salt Lake City, Utah, from England, I am trying to build a new life. Having a little time to spare, and not having any ideas as how to spend it, I picked up the March Relief Society Magazine and came across the article ''This Day Is Mine," by Helen A. Nielsen. Thank you for showing me how to spend this day that is mine, and for being so very blessed. Joan E. Gifford Salt Lake City, Utah I returned recently from a visit to Utah, where I was visiting relatives who belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am a Baptist, but I have received The Relief Society Magazine for the past year and a half, and enjoy it very much. I went to a Relief Society work meeting with my niece and enjoyed every minute. I think all the women are wonderful, and I have never seen more friendly people. I have visited Utah six times, and I love it there. Mrs. Martha Woods St. Louis, Missouri I enjoyed the May frontispiece poem "Place of Prayer,"" by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is interesting to see new talent and different types of poetry. Lois S. Clayton Englewood, Colorado The a € Relief Society Oe —_
