[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Hinckley]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes Lesson 7?Blessed Are the Peacemakers Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, April 3, 1945 "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God" (Matt. 5:9). Objective: To show that enduring peace between men and nations, in the home and abroad, will come only through the adoption of the precepts of the Master. TO be able to compose differences, reconcile those at variance, promote harmony and happiness is a rare and precious gift, and this is within the reach of the humblest. We may not be able to write a book, accumulate a fortune, distinguish ourselves in the field of statesmanship or politics, we may not startle the world with inventions, but we can all contribute to the peace and happiness of those about us, and, in so doing, we become real peacemakers.
Such indeed are the children of God.
Whosoever cherishes hate in his heart, whoever makes it easier for men and women to suspect each other, to mistrust each other, that individual, regardless of his profession, is fighting against peace.
Whoever is hard to live with in the home, whoever is a promoter of strife between man and man, whoever creates discord, discontent, and misunderstanding, whoever preaches selfishness, whoever fosters prejudice is a disturber of peace. On the other hand, if we are peacemakers, if by what we say, by what we are, by what we do, we preach the "Gospel of Reconciliation"; if we promote peace in the home, peace in social circles, peace between nation and nation, then we are making common cause with the Prince of Peace. His gospel is the gospel of peace.
Enduring peace between men and nations, in the home and abroad, will come only through the adoption of the precepts of the Master, and through magnifying these precepts by actually applying them in our daily lives. "Peace on earth" is not to be established by congress and parliament, nor by any group of international representatives, peace cannot be legislated into existence for it comes from within. The only way to build a peaceful community is to build men and women who are lovers and makers of peace.
Each in of your Father which is in heaven, dividual holds in his own hands, in a... (Matt. 5:44-45) measure, the peace of the world.* Ruskin said: **Do you ask to be *'Love your enemies, bless them the companions of nobles?
Make that curse you, do good to them that yourself noble and you shall be." If hate you, and pray for them which you asked to be called the "children despitefully use you, and persecute of God," cultivate the divine gift of you; That ye may be the children making peace and you shall be. *See discourse of Elder John A. Widtsoe, Conference Pamphlet, October 1943.