[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: That Which Miner]
which is almost moving. The whole landscape seems diﬀused with a soft
light reminiscent of the end of day. Also there is a feeling of the last day of
summer. This painting, purchased for a gift painting to honor Bath-sheba
W. Smith, pioneer artist, is a part of Mrs. Taylor's collection.
Rachel's love for art is not stronger than her husband's, for John H.
Taylor, though modest of his prowess, is an art collector in his own right
and cherishes his art collection.
Ruth Ballard Snow — a Utah artist who resides at Arlington, Va., is
winning for herself a place among contemporary American artists. Mrs.
Snow holds membership in the Society of Washington Artists, and Virginia
Art League. Her work has been exhibited at the Philips Memorial Gallery
and with the Society of Washington Etchers, Carnegie Library. Recently, at

the Seventeenth Biennial Exhibition in the Corcoran Gallery of Art, she
won honorable mention. She is an art instructor at Corcoran Art School,
being assistant to Nickolai Cicousky, the noted ﬁgure painter.
Formerly in Utah as head of Granite High art department, her
—Ruth Ballard Snow
PORTRAIT OF MY MOTHER
work was more or less profound. Ruth married Dale C. Snow and went to
Washington where her husband was employed with the Government.
Opportunities came fast from the day she entered Corcoran School to
continue her art studies. The work of this artist has found ready sale in Utah
when she exhibits with the Utah Art Colony of which she is a cherished
member. In the East, sales follow her exhibitions. Mrs. Snow's father, the
late Melvin J. Ballard, has been recognized for his eloquence as a preacher
and he could have made a place for himself in the concert hall with his ﬁne
baritone voice. Like her father, Mary Ruth, as she is often called, possesses
a ﬁne presence, is a good speaker and wins friends by her charming
personality. Her mother has the gift of design. The writer,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1945
with President Emmeline B. Wells, visited the Ballard home in Portland as

guests of the Northwestern Mission. Mrs, Ballard's home management, her
hospitality, her entertainment of guests, and the work of her hands shown
in clothing her children and decorating the home, revealed an artistic
temperament which carried over to Mary Ruth.
Grace Cutler Solomon, granddaughter of the late John C. Cutler, has gifts
in her own right. A water colorist of varied attainments, she writes verse
and paints pictures as did her poet uncle, Alfred Lam-bourne. This young
artist's Winter Exhibition contained a subtle ''Winter Fields" as well as
''House of Memories," which bravely depicted a quaint pioneer home—
both water colors were snatched up by a private
—Grace C. Solomon
GARDEN FLOWERS
UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS
19

-Ida May Savage
ANCIENT POTTERY
collector. Mrs. Solomon is often represented by a design which is fancifully
created from one ﬂower. Several collections have chosen her design from a
magnolia or some other favorite ﬂower. This ambitious artist is able to
maintain a beautiful home and family life with her gifted husband, C.
Francis Solomon. Recently she, with her daughter, was in Chicago,
brushing up at the Chicago Art Institute.
Ida May Savage was blue-eyed, fair, a true blonde, with a charming
personality. She was a promising student of Harwood and painted ﬂowers
with ﬂower quality. There was grace and charm in her compositions and
she painted only clean color. Daughter of Charles R. Savage who made a
circle of love for art around him, Ida died too young, and to keep her
memory green the lovely creations of her hand could well be brought
together to establish a school collection with her dear name attached
thereto.
Mary Teasdel — a much traveled person, was a graduate of the University
of Utah. She studied piano, voice, and an extended art course under J. T.
Harwood and continued in Paris for three years. On her return home, Miss
Teasdel was elected third president of the Utah Art Institute when, with the
help of Cyrus E. Dallin, her close friend, the New York and Boston artists
sent outstanding canvases to the annual exhibition held at the old Social
Hall. Mary took her mother with her for a second trip to Europe. Miss
Teasdel was a brilliant conversation-ahst and correspondent. Perhaps no