[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Dorothy Clapp Robinson]
Forward, Without Fear Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Watch your words," Matt Lewis had cautioned the girls as two officers came into camp.
They were hunting Niels.
They accused him of stealing a sack of food.
Niels hearing them from the side of Johanna's sick bed slipped away. Ann Kristin thinking to save both him and the sick girl confesses to taking the food.
Instead of freeing Niels the officers decided to take both of them, and started to hunt for the "big Swede."
They were saved by Jake who pretended he had also been hunting Niels. He told the officers where to go to find him.
After they had gone, the girls persuaded Jake to stay and eat with them. Patty Lou transferred her anger at him to Ann Kristin, demanding to know just where she got so much food. Ann refused to tell, then Helga discovered Ann's ring was missing.
That broke down the resentment Patty Lou had always felt toward Ann Kristin. So she told them that Tom Bedloe had taken their money. He had also taken her money?claiming to have given it to Elder Lewis. The two men were just starting out to find Bedloe when Helga came running for help.
Johanna was dying.
CHAPTER VI THE Camp of Israel was a long way from the banks of the Mississippi. A long way in time, in wearied footsteps, and in heartaches over what had been left behind. In the same crowded cemetery Johanna and Edward Lewis lay sleeping side by side.
Because she had so loved the city, which to her had meant Zion, Niels and Matt had taken Johanna there, where her bones could rest in the shadow of the temple. A week later they had placed Edward Lewis beside her.
Still later, they had begun the series of moves that had, two years later, placed them on the plains of Iowa not far from Winter Quarters. Twice Jake had been able to move their few belongings, and twice Matilda Lewis had put them in her own overloaded wagon. Ann Kristin was thinking of all this and much more as she walked toward her home. It was late afternoon and hot, but the heat was dry. Not sticky as it ha'been along the river. Ted Lewis, walking beside her, sighed. "Tou should not have come with me, Ted," Ann Kristin told him. "It is too much walking." 'Pooh. I can walk as far as any girl."
Then he sighed again. "I wish I was a sheep herder.
That was a big band of sheep. I bet there was a million sheep in it." *] am afraid not quite so many. If there had been a million brambles, there would have been more wool." "Have we got enough wool to make Anna a coat?" he asked. "Well," Ann Kristin looked at the mat of dirty wool in her apron, "there is enough for a pair of stockings, perhaps. Tomorrow I shall follow the herd again.
Perhaps then we will have enough for a coat." "You can't go out alone," Ted warned. "The Injuns might see you." "But there will be more wool farther out.
There were too many women following the herd today." "I am going to marry Anna when Page 37 I grow up. I like girls with yellow I grow up. I like girls with yellow hair."
"That will be a long time. Anna is only ten."
"Oh, not so long," Ted answered wisely. "I'm not going to be an old bachelor like Matt. He says he has enough of women. I'm not going to make an excuse. She says she is in love with someone, and is too stubborn to know it. Anyway, Becky didn't wait for him. She got married."
"Was he in love with Becky?"
"Gosh, yes. He walked her to all the meetings and dances. Anyway, I have to go west before I get married or maybe I won't. I might be a freighter like Jake and Matt or even a scout like Jim Bridger."
"Does your mother say whom he is in love with?" Ann Kristin asked, hesitantly.
"Who is in love?" Ted demanded. "I do not know. You said your mother?"
"Ah, don't care if I am in love with Anna. She says it is quite safe. Golly," he cried suddenly, "look at the dust. It's a wagon train. They will have the mail. Maybe Patty Lou will get her letter."
"Perhaps," Kristin wasn't sure she wanted Patty Lou to receive her letter. That would mean she would leave them. "Jake might be with them."
"It is a long one. Let's run," Ted urged.
Ann Kristin shook her head. "You run, Ted. Probably if you can across the coulee you can meet them."
The boy dashed away, his bare feet skimming over the dry earth. It was incredible after all the walking he had done. She watched closely. She could tell by the dust that it was a long train. Probably on its way to Winter Quarters, or perhaps even to Fort Laramie or Fort Bridger. It would bring mail and very likely more saints. It would lay over here in camp all night. Her pulse quickened. If Tom did come back and news of the saints scattered among the trail. There would be no news for her, unless she held the thought a moment, unless Tom should write to her.
The evening of Johanna's death, Jake and Matt had visited the trader, Willkins, seeing them had given them more satisfaction than information, for Willkins, seeing them in time, had bolted his door and fled, thereby establishing his guilt. Becky had never found him. Nor had he ever returned to Ann Kristin for his answer. The humiliation of it had left its mark.
Of all the scars there was none so deep as that caused by the death of Edward Lewis, and none that had brought with it such deep humility. They had chosen to leave Norway, the death of her parents had not been preventable. Poverty she was learning to endure, and camping would, in some happy day, be a thing of the past; yet she would never be able to forget what she had done to her. "Tell Evelin she can't do it. It will be too hard. To make it harder to bear, almost in last words had been to her. "Tell Evelin not to blame herself," Ann Kristin was learning to trust my Maker."
The weeks had passed, Tom said. "Pa had done a good work and his time had come. Let's honor him by working for the future, not the past. There is too much to do to spend time in grieving or regretting."
Ma, her eyes told Ann Kristin she would always grieve; and the girl wondered again at the depth of her love and understanding, her capacity for forgiveness. FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 39
