[Vol32 | January 1945 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Aftermath Second Prize Coles]
Society Short Story Contest to emerge winner of ﬁrst prize. Mrs. Eccles has
for some time been writing prose, poetry, and ﬁction. Her early work was
published in the Gold and Blue, a L.D.S. high school periodical, and later
in Playground, issued by the Playground System of Washington, D.C. She
was at one time special reporter for the Deseret News with a column in
each Saturday edition. She is at present contemplating the publication of
her work in book form. She is an active Relief Society worker; prior to her
recent move to Washington, D.C, she was Relief Society president of the
Cleveland District of the Northern States Mission.
A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists
Alice MerrilJ Home Former Member of Relief Society General Board Part
II
artist in a day, when it was accepted and hung in the beautiful Woman's
Building of the Columbian Exposition at Chicago. Hattie was a painter of
ﬂowers, too. Her still life was distinguished. Hattie's father and her
grandfather, Dr. Willard Richards, who was ﬁrst editor of the Deseret
News, were both college men of high attainments. Hattie, too, possessed a
legal mind. She read her father's scientiﬁc works, took extension courses in
research, and such studies as geology and astronomy at the University of
Utah. Hattie's mother, Julia Johnson, was a daughter of Ellis Johnson,
biologist and horticulturist of Southern Utah in pioneer days. Both mother
and daughter had the gift to propagate rare house plants. The Harwoods
went to California in search of greater art opportunities. The young mother,
stricken with a toxic goiter, was forced to lie in bed. From books brought
her from the public libraries, before her death, she went, in imagination,
with the North and South Polar Expeditions. Ruth Har-wood, poet and
illustrator, is their daughter. Harwood painted several lovely portraits of his
beautiful wife. A school collection should be named for her and contain
some of her own work, and also some of Harwood's portraits of this gifted
woman.

—Hattie Richards Harwood
PETUNIAS AT WINDOW
Hattie Richards Harwood — While Dr. Heber John Richards was visiting
and traveling in art centers of Europe with his wife and daughters, Hattie
married, in the city of Paris, J. T. Harwood, her former art teacher in Utah.
The young couple spent their honeymoon at Pont Aven—a French ﬁshing
port where they both painted. Hattie Harwood's still life "Pumpkin" won a
narne for the young
Page 16
UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS
17
■>(* *

—Rachel Grant Taylor
THE HOME OF YESTERYEAR
