[Vol18 | February 1931 | Sequence: 11c | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature - The Short Story in France]

Literature (3rd Week in April)
THE SHORT STORY IN FRANCE
Suggested Stories: Bernier's The Divided Horsecloth; Voltaire's Memnon the Philosopher; Rabelais' He Who Married a Dumb Wife; Merimee's Mateo Falcone.
At the beginning of this century Brander Matthews, who is one of the greatest literary critics America has produced, wrote: "Probably there is no rashness in a prophecy
118
that the short story will flourish even more luxuriously in the immediate future than it has flourished in the immediate past." (He had just written that the nineteenth century had been a short story and novel era.) "Of a certainty we can assert that a literary form as popular as the short story, as well established in every modern literature, is deserving of serious consideration and is worthy of careful study." It is useless to ask if Brander Matthews' prophecy has been realized by 1931, but it is worthwhile to know something of the causes that have brought about this supremacy of the short story. And we owe more to France than to any other European country. To tell the account briefly, for we are more interested in the short story of modern France, long before the close of the Middle Ages, France had its native writers who wrote their tales in Fabliau form. This form, for our purposes, is a brief tale, little more than an anecdote, with a sharp sting at the end. The Fabliau is full of gayety and has the simple shrewdness of the plain people. One of the few Fabliau authors known to modern times is Bernier, whose story, "The Divided Horsecloth," is found in the text. About the middle of the fourteenth century the Fabliau lost its importance and the forms of the Lay, Miracle, and Devotional stories were in vogue until after the close of the Middle Ages. Troubadours and minstrels roved in France, as in other countries, and many of their stories were recorded by later writers. In Italy, Boccaccio was the master and in France Rabelais and Marguerite de Navarre are two names that have lived. In the seventeenth century France paid most of her literary attention to the drama and to long drawn out
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sentimental romances. However, in the second half of the century Charles Perrault and La Fontaine (both of these writers are represented in the text) developed the fable and fairy story into beautiful forms. A great many of the stories that are told children today were written by Perrault. To him we owe Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood, Blue Beard, Sleeping Beauty, Puss-in-Boots, and many others. This distinguished Parisian was born in 1628. He was the author of elaborate works in prose and verse, but his fame rests on a few tales that he wrote for recreation when he was growing old?tales to which he was not even willing to give his name. They were first published under the name of his son, a ten year old boy. Because of the stories' simplicity there is a slight reason for thinking that Perrault might have had the boy tell the stories and then record them in their charming and simple style. Perrault's fame made fairy tales the rage. There were imitators down to the eighteenth century, with its new philosophy, its skepticism, and its interest in pure literary form. As in England, French writers of this century occupied themselves largely with the moral tale and Voltaire was the great master of this form. (One of Voltaire's stories is found in the text and the reader will readily notice the difference between his profundity and the lighter touch of Addison.) In the nineteenth century the modern short story was born and by the second quarter it was reaching a perfection that has not yet been excelled. These early modern stories were written not so much as consciously following a purpose as by a certain turn of genius in the men. Their stories made the short story one of the most highly per-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
fected forms of literature in France. It was in France and in the United States that the short story was finally achieved and it was done almost simultaneously and quite independently. There are perhaps two reasons for France's development? first, she has a finer artistic appreciation and has acquired the Latin liking for logic, which includes the classical code of unity and proportion, and secondly, the Parisian newspapers. In France, then and today, there are not many magazines. Instead, the newspapers, cheap in price and widely read, give the same thing that is obtained in America from more expensive sources. The French newspapers welcomed and definitely encouraged writers of short stories; the stories, themselves, were widely read and much criticized. And it was in the Parisian newspapers that such writers as Coppee, Daudet, and Maupassant first became known. Balzac, one of the great writers of all time, broke definitely with the past in his art, and his methods were adapted by the great writers of fiction, many of whose names are as familiar as our English ones?George Sand, Anatole France, Daudet, Merimee, Zola, Maupassant, Flaubert, and others. Stevenson in England, you will recall, was much influenced by the French writers. He summed up their art when he said in reply to a friend who had asked him why he did not change the ending of a certain story: "Make another end to it? That's not the way I write. The whole tale is implied. I never use an effect when I can help it unless it prepares the effects that are to follow. That's what a story consists in. To make another end than that is to make the beginning all wrong."
119
Notes to the teacher: If the material on the short story in France were divided into two periods, the last being the modern one, Balzac's story would begin the latter. However, if it is possible, Merimee's story of "Mateo Falcone" should be given in the first lesson, in addition to at least one of the briefer, older ones. The modern short stories represent a section of the best of France's art, and as many of the stories as can be arranged for should be given in class. "Mateo Falcone" is counted one of the greatest short stories of all time, and if the majority of the class are not acquainted with it, the members will enjoy it much better than they will some of the older ones. Balzac's story, in its way, is equally great, but it is not placed on the suggested list because it might not appeal to all the members of the class. Questions on the stories should bring out the characteristics of the French art in comparison with that of other nations previously studied, and on the style of the individual stories. One easy way of getting at this latter is to ask the members if they could tell another story by the same author if the name were withheld, then ask them to explain why. Questions on the short story as a form of art, given early in the course, may be used to good effect on the French stories.
"The Divided Horsecloth" by Bernier
Nothing is known of Bernier except that he lived in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries and that his name is signed to the ms. of "The Divided Horsecloth." This is a beautiful story of a certain trait in human nature that has not varied much from the beginning of man. It is the account of a wealthy and
120
prudent man from the common ranks who went up to Paris so that he might better himself and family. Time passed, the wife died, and the father loving his son and desiring to see the boy well and happily married, forgot how necessary wealthy possessions are for retaining independence of ways and thought, and gave all of his wealth to his son. It was not long before the father was looked upon as an object of charity in the home he had built. The wife, who had been obtained at such a price, grew weary of the old man and asked that he be sent away. The old father, grown weak and weary, protested and then agreed to go if first he should be given a piece of cloth to protect him from the cold. Selfishly, the son refused, but later relented by saying the old man could have one of the cloths now used to cover the horses. The son called for his young boy to do the errand, and it was here that the child's wisdom asserted itself, and gave the unexpected ending to the Fabliau.
Questions on "The Divided Horsecloth"
1. In what ways can you place the period in which the story was written?
2. What is the universal appeal of the story?
3. What are the characteristics of the Fabliau as exemplified by "The Divided Horsecloth?"
"Mateo Falcone" by Prosper Merimee
Prosper Merimee, who is one of the great masters of French style and of short story writing, was born at Paris in September, 1803. He studied at the bar but never practiced law. It was his good fortune
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to become acquainted with the mother of the future Empress Eugenie, and when Eugenie married Napoleon III, Merimee became a court favorite and was given a number of coveted positions. He was a man of deep emotions, which he successfully hid from all but his best friends, and even they found it hard to pierce his stoical reserve. In spite of his kind and helpful nature, he had a distrust and even a contempt for mankind. Several times he was disappointed in love affairs, and this fact may account for the hard, vampirish quality of many of his women characters. His deep but hidden emotions also give a clue to the wild, unbridled nature of his characters. When "Mateo Falcone" was written, Merimee had not been to Corsica, but he afterwards visited there and was entertained by an aging woman who had long been the leader of a famous feud. He told her story in "Colomba." Merimee died at Cannes, September, 1870 just after the close of the Franco-Prussian War. Many of his short stories are known throughout the world, and one of them, "Carmen," inspired the famous opera by that name.
Questions
(It must be remembered in this story that the Corsicans, through long years of being unjustly treated and governed, had learned to take the law into their own hands. The men killed, not for lust and robbery, but to see that justice was administered. The weak man was the one who let an offense go unpunished.)
1. What features of the setting are necessary to make the action appear probable?
2. What traits of character in Gianetto. Fortunato, Gamba, and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Mateo are motives for the successive stages of action? 3. Do you judge these characters most by what they think, say, or do? Which method of indicating character is most dramatic? 4. Do you sympathize with For-
121
tunato or are you merely shocked by his death? 5. Is the repetition of the bribery artistic? 6. Could the story be made into a play? If it were a one-act one, where would you lay the scene?