The Lamanite in the Gospel Scheme

Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference October 1, 1930
By Rey L. Pratt, President of the Mexican Mission

WHILE sitting here, my mind has gone back to the many, many sad times in my contact with the Lamanite people, knowing and feeling how misunderstood they have been. How my heart has longed for an opportunity such as this, that I might be transported from where I was to some great gathering of the Church to tell my story in their behalf! And now I find myself looking at it from the other point of view and I wish with all my heart that I could transport you out to where they are so that you might get a personal glimpse and have the contact that would let you know intimately the feelings and the problems and the conditions of the Lamanite people.

THE past year in your work in the Relief Society you have been taking up the study of the Book of Mormon. I thank the Lord for that. I feel that the Church could well afford to devote more time to this study than it has done for some time past. Perhaps what the Lord revealed to Joseph Smith concerning the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the very specific reasons for its coming forth has been missed by you in your study of it.

The assumption in the Church in regard to the Book of Mormon is that the primary purpose was to give us the gospel. In it is contained, as we know, the fulness of the everlasting gospel, but I should like to read in that connection a quotation from the Doctrine and Covenants that seems to put us right as to why the Book of Mormon came forth in this day and age in which we live. The Lord was rather reproving Joseph Smith for letting the manuscript get out of his hands and told him what he might do to regain favor with the Lord and go on with the translation, and said,

"Nevertheless my work shall go forth, for inasmuch as the knowledge of a Savior has come unto the world, through the testimony of the Jews, even so shall the knowledge of a Savior come unto my people,

"And to the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephites, and the Zoramites, through the testimony of their fathers—

"And this testimony shall come to the knowledge of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites, who dwindled in unbelief because of the iniquity of their fathers, whom the Lord has suffered to destroy their brethren the Nephites, because of their iniquities and their abominations.

"And for this very purpose are these plates preserved, which contain these records—that the promises of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he made to his people;

"And that the Lamanites might come to the knowledge of their fathers, and that they might know the promises of the Lord, and that they may believe the gospel and rely upon the merits of Jesus Christ, and be glorified through faith in his name, and that through their repentance they might be saved. Amen." (Doc. and Cov. 3:16-20.)

So you see the primary purpose of the Book of Mormon was to bring to the knowledge of the Lamanite people the promises that the Lord had made to their fathers and that they might know who they are and what their destiny is to be.

Now, in the 49th chapter of Isaiah we have a very beautiful prophecy concerning this people. Let me read a few verses:

"Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; The Lord hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.

"And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath he hid me;

"And said unto me, Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be glorified.

"Then I said, I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strength for nought, and in vain: yet surely my judgment is with the Lord, and my work with my God.

"And now, saith the Lord that formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him, Though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord, and my God shall be my strength.

"And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth." (Isaiah 49:1-6.)

This is a prophecy that has reference to the Lamanite people and their work among the Gentiles in the last days.