Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in April.)
Our RESPONSIBILITY TO SUSTAIN THE LAW
"Law commands that which is right and prohibits that which is wrong." ?Blackstone.
"We believe in honoring, obeying and sustaining the law."?Articles of Faith.
"We stand for the observance of law, the people who live it and the officers who enforce it."?M. I. A. Slogan.
"By strict obedience Jesus won." ?Hymn.
I. Origin and History
Civil law, rule, and order came with the advent of man. It began with family, patriarchal and tribal organization,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
changing in form and requirements as man spread over the earth. The purpose was protection, defense, and progress.
II. Purpose and Necessity of Law and Government
1. To establish justice.
2. To insure domestic tranquility.
3. To promote the general welfare.
4. To secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.
III. Teaching Law and Order
A. Home? Beginnings of obedience: The earlier in life that a child can appreciate and respond to the responsibilities of life, the safer he is and the more sure he will be of success. No one can successfully escape the real responsibilities of the full requirements of proper conduct of life.
B. Church? The real progress and pleasure of life comes from a response to the law of God. Man is that he might have joy, predicated on the principle of an attitude of responsibility. This means a proper attitude to God and man and country.
117
C. School? School is closely associated with the home and enlarges the child's experience. He carries to the group the principles taught and nurtured in the home. Every human being must learn the majesty of the law.
D. Society? Strong and potential factor for human conduct.
IV. Benefits and Blessing of the Law.
Security Order Progress?Education Unity of effort. A response to the requirements of law and order measures true citizenship, which aims to live above the law. Responsibility serves two purposes: first, upholds and sustains the law; secondly, sets a good example and thereby influences others to support and sustain the law. Not only is this true in the civil law but in the law and requirements of God. "Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven."?Matt. 5:16. Responsibility is closely allied to opportunity, privilege, power, authority, and influence.