[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Hanks]
Recipes for Winter &venings Emma A. Hanks OLp-FASHIONED CHILE 2 Ibs. Ground meat 1 tsp. Salt 2 No. 2 cans tomatoes % tsp. Black pepper 2 cans kidney beans 1 tsp. Chili powder 1 large-sized onion, chopped fine "* tsp. Cayenne pepper Crumble meat as fine as possible and braise slightly. Pour into kettle and add tomatoes, beans, onion, black pepper, salt, chili powder, and cayenne pepper. If needed, add a little more water. Cook for one hour. Serve with crackers or French bread spread with a garlic spread. CHICKEN GUMBO 1 hen cut up for frying salt and pepper to taste 2 c. Chopped onions % c. Raux (see below) flour 2 c. Chopped celery dash of file (powdered sassafras) into 2 c. Chopped okra each serving % tsp. Finely chopped garlic 2 qts. Water Brown chicken in small amount of fat and add onions, celery, garlic, salt, and pepper. Then add water and boil until chicken is tender, adding additional water as needed. When the chicken is tender add the raux and mix well, and then add the okra and cook until okra is tender and until desired thickness is obtained. Add small amount of file just before you serve the gumbo over the rice. To make the raux: " ¢. Flour small amount of fat Brown flour in fat or use a patent brand. Texas Hasu 2 large-size onions, sliced 2 green peppers, chopped fine 3 tbsp. Shortening 1 lb. Ground beef 2 c. Canned tomatoes "2 c. Uncooked rice 1 tsp. Chili powder 1 tsp. Salt "4 tsp. Pepper Cook onions and pepper in shortening until golden brown and add the meat and cook until it separates. Add the rest of the ingredients and bake in greased baking dish for forty-five minutes at 350°. Makes six to eight servings. Texas CREAM PIE 2 c. Scalded milk 4 tbsp. Cornstarch " c. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs separated 1 c. Whipping cream baked pie shell Mix beaten egg yolks and cornstarch. Add milk and sugar to this mixture and cook until thick enough to coat spoon. Add the stiffly beaten egg whites to mixture while still hot. Add vanilla and let cool. Pour into baked pie shell, cover with whipped cream, and grate a little chocolate over the top. Chill before serving.