[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Johnson]
(Vor IT leeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8 — The Chronically III and the Aged Maria Johnson For Tuesday May 9g, 1961 Objective: To point out the special needs of chronically ill and aged patients and to consider how we can help meet their needs. Problems of Chronic []lness HE increased number of elderly persons today is focusing our attention as never before on the problems of chronic illness. It has been estimated that over 50% of persons 65 years of age or older have some form of chronic illness or disability, which requires long continued treatment and nursing care. Chronic illness, however, is not limited to elderly persons. An acute illness can leave a patient, young or old, with a chronic illness. Many young men return to civilian life from active service in our armed forces with chronic disabilities. 'The incidence of mental illness is also on the increase. Heart disease and cancer rank high as causes of death. To these diseases we might add tuberculosis, arthritis, nephritis, strokes, diabetes, and others. For many years bed rest and inactivity were the treatment, only to find that the patient's disabilities multiplied as complications developed. LESSON DEPARTMENT I / i Tila, 127 For example, the heart condition might improve, but other disorders presented themselves. More recent years have brought about radical changes in treatment. This new treatment calls for activity in order to maintain normal functioning of all parts of the body. Even heart cases spend little time in bed compared with the old treatment. Rehabilitation and Sufficient Exercise Rehabilitation, which means care which aids the patient to maintain or restore her best capacities and make her self-sufficient, has become the watchword for the chronicallv ill, both young and old. Exercise is a must for each patient. She should be encouraged to do as much for herself as she is able to do. The doctor will tell you her limitations. You will assist her to do what she cannot do for herself. The nurse, the patient, and family must understand the goal that is set and must work together in carrying out the plan. 'The patient who does not understand the plan may feel neglected and that you are not interested in her welfare because you do not do everything for her. Often it is less time consuming to do something for the patient than it would be to help her do it for herself. This, however, is not good nursing care. We all know a muscle not used becomes weak and useless, a joint not exercised will become stiff. 'The patient in bed can develop limited motion in her shoulder and be unable to comb her hair, if the joint is not exercised. Foot drop and contractures can develop when pillows are used incorrectly, and the position of the patient is not changed frequently. Meeting the Emotional Needs of the Patient The emotional needs of the patient are often the most difficult to meet. 'The chronically ill patient needs protection from loneliness; she needs companionship, she needs to share in the family interests, plans, and, in so far as possible, the activities. If her condition permits, have her join the family at mealtime, even though it mav be more trouble to get her to the table than to carry the tray to her. If she must have a tray, a member of the family can be served a tray with her, or a friend might be invited in to eat with her occasionally. Bring outside interests to Iver; tell her of your experience for the day, something you have read, done, or planned; read aloud, play games, etc. Your librarian can help you with things to do and things to read. Keep a basket of things to do within reach of the patient, and an overbed table large enough to work on. It is easy to become discouraged and depressed. Think how bored you could become if you were the patient without companions or interests outside the sick room. Sce that the patient has a bell, mouth organ, whistle or other device for calling you. It gives the patient a feeling of security and saves you many steps. Pin a paper bag on the bed within easy reach for the patient's scraps of paper, tissue, etc. Family Planning for Care for the Chronically Il Caring for the chronically ill in the home can be a real burden, if a plan is not worked out so that the patient and all members of the family 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 196] understand and co-operate. One person should be in charge, but should not be expected to carry the full load. When there is a visiting nurse service or a public health nurse in the community, a nurse will help you plan and show you how to give the treatments ordered by the physician, and how to improvise equipment that will better meet the needs of the patient and conserve your energy. RE] a7) if N= i l ELEVATING THE BED BY PLACING THE LEGS IN CANS HALF-FULL OF SAND 9 If the patient is to have care in bed, you will want to raise the bed to a height that will save you back strain and fatigue. One good way is to cut the top from four large cans; fill them about half full of sand or gravel; drop the lid you cut out on top of the sand and place the cans under the legs of the bed. (See illustration.) Wooden blocks or cinder bricks may be used to raise the bed. If wooden blocks are used, a depression should be cut in the top of 6-inch square blocks of wood in which to place the legs of the bed or casters to prevent the bed from falling. If the patient is heavy, you may be able to rent a bed with a frame and cross bar over which a strap can be suspended. 'The patient can grasp the strap and raise herself when linen is changed, when the bedpan is needed, and when she changes positions. 'he bed rope is another device helpful to many patients. It can be made by tieing a stout rope to the foot of the bed with a loop for the patient to grasp at the other end. Back rests, foot supports, and pillows were discussed in Lesson 4. Feeding the Aged and Chronically Ill The chronically ill patient must be encouraged to eat a balanced diet or the special diet prescribed by the physician. The diet for the elderly patient must be planned as carefully as for the growing child. Pressure Sores and Incontinence Pressure sores and incontinence (lack of control of urine or the bowels) present special problems in the care of the aged. Many studies have shown that the patient who has lost her desire to live is much more prone to incontinence. She simply gives up and makes no effort. Stimulating the LESSON DEPARTMENT 129 patient to co-operate and giving her the bedpan at frequent intervals have proved very rewarding. The prevention of pressure sores is worth any effort it may take. They are frequently called bedsores because they are most often found in patients who remain in bed a long time. Elderly or helpless patients are especially susceptible to bedsores. 'They develop most frequently over parts of the body which are subject to pressure — the end of the spine, shoulder blades, heels, elbows, or hip bones. Prevention is the best treatment. Prevention: 1. Turn the patient frequently. 2. Keep the patient clean and dry. 3. Keep the bed dry and free from wrinkles or crumbs. 4. Cushion the reddened area with a soft pad such as sponge rubber or pieces of lamb's wool pelt or a cotton pad. The soft pad provides evenly distributed pressure and, today, is replacing the round rings, called doughnuts, popular at one time. Do not let the patient lie on the reddened area. Give gentle massage around the reddened area. When giving the bedpan, hold your hand over the part of the pan that will support the buttocks, as you gently slip the pan under the patient. Special care will be necessary for the incontinent patient, the one who is unable to control her bladder or bowels, as she develops bedsores very readily. Always remove all discharge promptly, wash the soiled areas immediately, rinse well, pat dry, and lighty dust with talcum powder. Keep a waterproof pad under the patient. 'This may be made of several thicknesses of newspaper covered with a clean cloth. When soiled, the papers can be easily removed and replaced with a clean pad. The cloth cover can be washed. Keep a stock on hand. Remember, changing the pad will not take the place of washing and drying the patient's skin. Ao atau or 4 & a= by I / HELPING THE PATIENT INTO BATHTUB SECURITY RAIL THE BATHTUB 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 The Tub Bath Many accidents occur in getting in and out of bathtubs. For this reason the patient should not be put in the tub until she is able, with a little support, to get in and out herself. A rubber mat in the tub helps prevent slipping. Bathtub rails and seats that can be adjusted to fit old and modern type tubs are now available. 'These give the patient support and make a tub bath possible for many who could not otherwise have one. (See illustrations. ) The Stroke Patient The patient with a stroke will need special care. She can become a helpless, bedridden patient, or she can, in many instances, be helped to become self-reliant in getting about and caring for herself. If a physiotherapist is available, ask your doctor about having her teach you the exercises needed. If this trained person is not available, your doctor or the public health nurse will help you. Today we have a new medical specialty "Geriatrics" dealing with the problems of the aged. The research and studies being made in this field are changing our attitudes and proving that later years of life can be challenging, interesting, and satisfying.