[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: New | Author: Thulin]
[New Stockings From Old Ones Shirley Thulin]

Shirley, President; Norma N. Peterson, Second Counselor; Fern P. Ladle, Secretary-I'reasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Bianca J. Allen, visiting teacher message leader; Ethel K. Archibald, Magazine representative; Merle A. Luke, literature class leader; Phoebe N. Williams, work meeting leader; Janet R. Mortensen, organist; Geneva B. Thomas, social science class leader; Mary R. Thomas, chorister. _ Ada S. Sharp, the new president of North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports the' faithfulness and devotion of the retiring officers: "Faithful and diligent service has been the aim of these sisters. Sister Rigby was the first president, appointed when the North Rexburg Stake was organized in November 1945, serving as president until 1951, and as theology class leader since 1954. 'Two sisters, Mary G. Shirley and Janet R. Mortensen, have served continuously on the board, each in three different capacities, since the stake was organized, and Fern P. Ladle has served as secretary-treasurer continuously since 1945." Page 114 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 115 Photograph submitted by Edith W. Hubbard BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 25, 1960 Seated, center front: Geraldine T. Forbush, director; at left of Sister Forbush: Shirley Hubbard, stake organist; at right: Edsel Prescott, who assisted with accompaniment. Edith W. Hubbard, President, Bannock Stake Relicf Society, reports that fiftyseven mothers participated in the chorus and presented the following numbers: "Such Lovely Things'; "Come, Ye Blessed of My Father'; ""O Divine Redeemer'; and "Let There Be Music." SS Photograph submitted by Wilma F. Turley SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION, MOENCOPI BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT MISSION CONFERENCES Wilma F. Turley, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports that these sisters love to sing together in the Navajo language. They presented the music for two mission conferences. Sister Millet, a missionary who directs the chorus, stands at the right in the back row. Sister Turley reports that the work of Relief Society is progressing in her mission, and the sisters are learning many skills. At Shiprock, New Mexico, the Relief Society women have made several quilts, and at Ramah, they held a successful bazaar in November 1960. 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 Sea ive Photegraph submitted by Leone T. Homer IDAHO FALLS (IDAHO) STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT "OUR TOWN AND RELIEF SOCIETY," June 5, 1960 Left to right: Gertrude Collard, a member of Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society Board, representing a pioneer woman; Elder Rheim M. Jones, representing a trapper; Marcia Collard, daughter of Gertrude Collard. Leone T. Homer, President, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "The pageant was a real success. We had over 500 people out to see it, and judging by the comments, telephone calls, and notes, it must have been enjoyed by everyone. It has been a tremendous task to do the research and writing, but we feel that it has been very worthwhile. "The first stake organization of Relief Society in Idaho Falls was perfected in 1895. Pnor to that time there were seventeen scattered wards and branches over an area of one hundred miles. This first organization was commemorated by our pageant. The town of Idaho Falls was first incorporated in 1900, so the pageant tied in town and Relief Society history. "Elder Rheim M. Jones, representing a trapper, told of the early beginnings in this part of the State — from 1860 to 1880, recalling the first ferry across the mighty Snake River, the first bridge, the gold hunters, and the constant fight with the hostile elements. "Representing a pioneer grandmother and granddaughter, Gertrude Collard and her daughter Marcia told of the coming of the Latter-day Saints to Idaho, their struggles, hardships, and joys, up to 1895, when this huge area was divided into two stakes, and the Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society was organized. "The twelve women who served as presidents over these years (or their representatives) were then presented. The history of the town, its mayors, and important NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117 events in its development were woven into the narrative of the years of service of those women, This was given by readers, as the women were spotlighted in large picture frames. "The pageant was interspersed with lovely music from a sixty-five voice Singing Mothers chorus directed by Edna Johnson, and interpretive background music was played on the organ by Grace Karstad.