[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Old | Author: Walton]
[The Old Fireplace Bertha M. Walton]

Avoid letting any soil come in contact with the stems. The points of all leaves should face the front of the bed, else you will find yourself looking at the rear of the plants with the blossoms facing the wall. After transplanting, careful watering is still essential, especially until new roots form and growth is firmly established. After that keep plants damp but not wet. ERY effective beds and satisfactory blooms are assured if seedlings are ordered instead of bulbs. They are less expensive than bulbs and equally profuse. Both are ordered in the autumn from the catalogues while stocks are complete and delivery assured. 'The nursery will air mail them to customers at the proper time for planting in their area, if the buyer so orders. 'These seedling plants take hold quickly and grow most miraculously, so that half way through the summer one can hardly tell which plants came from seedlings and which from bulbs. 'They do not make large bulbs the first year, however, and so are precarious to store as they dehydrate easily. Hanging basket begonias are available in double and single blossom varieties. 'hey require a location where winds never stray, as they are easily wind-damaged. 'They add lush beauty to bare walls and patio plant stands. Most nursery and garden centers carry abundant stocks of begonia plants already started from bulbs. They are sold at a nominal price, and while a great number run into considerable outlay, a few plants fall within the limits of small budgets. They are usually sold by color and form alone, so that one must wait till the plant blooms to find what it is going to look like. Catalogue buying is recommended for the gardener who likes to plan meticulously, but some very beautiful surprises come out of potluck buying from the garden centers. Fibrous begonias, pink, white, and red make gorgeous borders, giving beds a lush, finished look. Most visitors are more delighted with the borders than with the beds, if you can judge by exclamations. Storage of bulbs at the end of summer requires care, but is neither heavy nor difficult work. Plants should be left in the earth until November, if the weather is not too severe. Don't be in a hurry to take them up. Let them become fully matured. 'They will keep better at that stage. As soon as the first killing frost has inactivated the tops, the bulbs can be dug, washed, dried in the sun, and stored. A cool dry place is required. 'Too dry and hot an atmosphere will wither them. Too damp a spot will encourage rot. Bulbs can be reset in February so the storage time is not overlong (as is the time for cannas, gladioli, and dahlias). Make sure that all stalks are cut back clean, as decaying stalks can cause damage to the bulb. Take care as you go, and you will enjoy the most delightfully varied, profuse, and exotic blooms your garden has ever grown. Shady nooks become twice as inviting when lush with exquisite form and magnificent color. Rell G. Francis MAPLETON MOUNTAIN (UTAH) IN WINTER Giloenie of Frost Christie Lund Coles Now, that the white season is upon us And the cycle wears a slim mustache of frost, When the sky is as gray as a speckled mare, And the tremulo of spring's song is lost; Now, when the sleigh's almost forgotten bell Chimes diamond-clear against the crystal air, When bladed skates engrave the heavy ice, And trees are regal in the pearls they wear; I think of winter days we knew together Running across the crisp, protesting white, Our breath a plume before us, and our cheeks Red as the apples that we ate that night. Outside, the icicles hang out — glass-clear, And children sleigh and skate in warm attire, The way we did once in that sweet-ago, Though now we are content here by the fire. Page 99 My Own Stove, My Own Table Sarah O. Moss HE day was young. Martha Fields looked at the kitchen table with satisfaction, for it was filled with bottles of freshly canned peaches. She began counting her yield, when suddenly the jam on the stove boiled over. The room immediately became filled with smoke. Martha pulled the kettle off and quickly began wiping up the smoking syrup. "What happened?" asked Edith, her daughter, hurriedly coming into the room, her arms filled with asters. "Oh, Mother!" she exclaimed, with a note of impatience in her voice. "What a mess!" "You can't turn your back a minute on Heavenly Hash,' said Martha, with some embarrassment. She was always a little uneasy around Edith's efficient ways of housekeeping. Both women mopped at the sugary fruit, Martha getting down on her knees to clean the floor and part of the wall. "If youll finish, Mother," said Edith, "Tl start the cake. Or didn't I tell you that Grace is coming out today? She's bringing her brood, all three children, pre-school." Edith laughed wryly. "No, you didn't say," said Martha, tiredly. "What time?" "Oh, for lunch," said Edith. Keeps the youngsters occupied." Martha finished her task, then rose. Her back ached. Her knees creaked. Something inside pulled at her with rebellion. She looked around. 'The breakfast dishes stared up at her. 'The floor was stained Page 100 "It and sticky from yesterday's canning. A bushel of pears stood in the service hall, ready for the bottles. For the first time since her husband had died a year ago, Martha wanted her own home to herself. She longed for those few years just before Burt died. 'The household had been small, just the two of them, going and coming as they pleased. 'They ate out often. They had friends in when they felt like it. Marketing and cooking were kept at a minimum. 'There had been time for many things — enjoyable things. But now. Martha heard the whirr of the beaters as Edith put in the various ingredients of the cake. She hardly heard her daughter's talk about the frosting, the arrangement of the asters, and the plans for the preparation of the noon meal, when the three lively youngsters would invade all privacy of the big house — Martha's house. "It would be a lot worse if my two were home, but, luckily, school is in session. By three-thirty Grace will probably be gone." Edith checked the oven, then put the cake in to bake. Martha did the breakfast dishes, as Edith arranged the asters in vases. "I think Ill run down to the store," said Martha suddenly. "I need some jars for the jam. 'The old ones are chipped." She finished the dishes, then hurried into her room, and changed into the new wool jersey dress. She picked up the big black bag that held almost MY OWN STOVE, MY OWN TABLE everything, and taking the short black coat from the hall closet, Martha knew she was ready for more than just a trip to the store. "I think Ill 'stop in and _ see Louise," she said. "I haven't seen her for months." "That ought to be good for you," smiled Edith. "Louise always did inspire you. And believe me, you look sharp in that new jersey, Mom." Martha smiled back as she hurried out to her car. OW fresh the air felt! The smell of apples and flowers was in each breath. A_ soft waving breeze rocked the trees gently, as she sped along. She didn't want the invigorating jaunt to end, but all too soon, there she was at her friend's house. But after ringing the bell several times, Martha knew that Louise was not at home. At the wheel again, Martha kept on toward the south. She didn't want to go home — not just now. She tried to restrain her speed, that she might hold onto the bracing moments. On she went, not knowing or caring. She only knew that a sudden wanderlust had seized her. She didn't want to go back to the noise and chaos that usually lasted long into the evening. It wasn't that she resented Edith, Charles, and the children who had come to live with her. She knew they had come out of sympathy in her aloneness. Thev had filled the emptiness of her life many times over. But there were times when she wanted to be alone. She wanted her own friends again, in the privacy of her own home. She often wished she could be left to read by 101 herself, sew by herself. She wanted to prepare a small repast and talk with a friend. In short, Martha once more wanted her own stove and her own table. And then she shuddered, when she thought of the big house with no one in it but herself. Suddenly she realized how far she had come. She had passed the point of the mountain. But she drove on. Lehi, American Fork, then Provo. She couldn't get enough of the bracing air and the smell of the harvest all around her. Why not keep driving and go on to Manti and see Florence, her niece? It had been a vear since she had seen her sister's child. With five children, Florence stayed pretty much at home. Martha called Edith from a pay phone. It was with some embarrassment that she tried to persuade her daughter that she was doing a rational thing. Was Mother upset over Grace's coming? Did the children make her nervous? Edith wanted to know. "It's just wanderlust, dear. I just felt that I had to get out in this wonderful weather. Tell Grace hello, and I'll be back in a couple of days. I promise." "All right, Mom," answered Edith uncertainly, "but we'll miss you." Martha felt a little guilty at that. "Better bottle that jam, dear," she spoke with practicality. "Goodbye for now." ORE of the long, beautiful stretches. More of the lush valleys, deep meadows with cows and horses grazing. And then she was there, at Florence's. Martha walked around the side 'door. She heard voices. Not stop- 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 196] ping to knock, she opened the door. "Surprise!" she exclaimed. "Aunt Martha!'" Dean had been pouring cereal into some bowls. He dropped the package on the table and came hurrying toward Martha. "Am I glad to see you?" he said, as he embraced her. The older children left their seats at the table and hovered around. The two smaller girls, tucked in high chairs, stared as Martha put a hand on their heads. '"Where's Florence?" Dean grinned. "Now isn't that a foolish question, Aunt Martha?" "You mean she's in the hospital? Another baby?" Dean nodded. "Sure thing. Number six. And she's a cute little one. Looks like her mother. Floss is wild over her. You'd think it was her firstborn."