[Vol48 | February 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: My Own | Author: Moss]
[My Own Stove, My Own Table Sarah O. Moss]

Mary Ellen raised the tiny scratched finger to her lips and kissed it, and finished the song, So now you jump down from the top of the knee, And forget where you hurt, and go play.. W. The little girl slid from her knees "For a biographical sketch of Mrs. Todd, see page 105. Page 82 THE HAPPETY ROAD and ran happily out the door to the other children. Mary Ellen sat for a minute with her eyes on the empty door where Lindy had disappeared. 'Two round tears rolled down her wrinkled cheeks and she dabbed at them with the corner of her apron. "Silly old goose," she muttered to herself, "crying because you've erown too old to play nonsense games with the orphans any more." She stood up determinedly and straightened her apron as_ she walked to the window. "But it's Joe that makes it so difficult," she said, looking out into the garden. She could see him now under the sprawling old crab apple tree. He was sitting there against the trunk while he dug, without looking, in the dirt with a stick. HAT would Joe do without her! With the years she had always known there would come a time when she could no_ longer serve as matron of the orphanage. Thirty years, this time had been edging nearer. But Joe Her thoughts flew back over the seven years to the might Joe came. It was autumn, a windy night with leaves whirling through the trees. Fiveryone else was in bed, and Mary Ellen was sitting reading by the fireplace when the knock came at the door. As she opened it, a gust of wind nearly blew the small boy into her arms. She would always remember his frightened little face as he shoved the note into her hands. The note was a torn piece of wrapping paper with a few words scrawled across it: "His name is Joe. Take care of him." That's all there was. Mary Ellen looked behind him, down the row 83 of dark trees that bordered the driveway. It was empty except for the leaves that fluttered like phantoms across the bare space. Anyone could be hidden in the shrubs and trees. But what did it matter! She looked down at the pitiful little figure, at his thin patched coat, and his bare feet. He dropped his eves and she saw that he was crying without making any sound. In that moment there was born in her a closeness to him that she knew would always be with her. She reached out and took his hand. "How old are you, Joe?" she asked kindly. But he did not say. Felt him shaking. Maybe five or six, she thought. She tried once more. "Who brought you?" "Nick," he said so low she could barely hear. Nick could be anybody. Father? Brother? The milkman? No, not the milkman. He had _ probably never tasted milk. Mary Ellen never in all the years knew who Nick was. Joe was not like other children. Mostly he played alone, if he was not with her. He followed her, ai not with his person, then, with his eyes. If she ever wanted someone to run an errand, it was Joe who heard her request first. The "Happety Road" song seemed important to Joe, from the first. It was a jingle that had grown in snatches and bits through the years as she comforted the children with their various hurts and grievances, until it became a tradition. So that all the children clamored for the song down the "Happety Road," with anything that went wrong, whether it was real or made up. Instead, she 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 Its first introduction to Joe was only a few days after his arrival. Billie had fallen from trying to climb the crab apple tree and made his nose bleed. So Mary Ellen was soothing him with the song. She saw Joe watching her intently from behind the big chair where he had secluded himself. After Billie, Susan came with a bumped head, and then Jill with her severed tooth on the end of a string. Joe came timidly to her from his corner. He was too frightened to say anything, but he motioned to her knee. And Mary Ellen lifted him up to the cherished spot while she struggled to keep back the tears as she sang. HEN she leaned down and kissed the top of his head for the Make-it-well Fairy, he slid down and ran behind the chair and stayed the remainder of the day. He never again asked or accepted an invitation down the "Happety Road." But whenever she sang it to any of the other children, she learned that he would be watching from some hiding place. Through the years he had _ lost some of his fear. Sometimes he laughed and played with the others. But there were times when he sat morosely by himself in some corner. The talk now of Mary Ellen's leaving soon, seemed to have driven him completely into his shell. Only once had anyone ever wanted to adopt Joe. Always the ones who came seeking for children would pay little attention to him. Perhaps some remark, like "Doesn't he get along?" or "Such a plain little fellow." But there was an older couple a month ago, barely within the age limit for adopting children. "A little girl," the lady said, "maybe three or four years old." Joe was standing away from the others under the crab apple tree. He always went some place away from the others when there was someone to see the children. The slightly plump little lady had a sweet face with big, childish blue eyes. She saw Joe standing under the tree. "Who is he?" she asked. "He looks lonesome. May we talk to him?" Mary Ellen looked at her quickly. "Why, of course," she said, and ai to him, But he didn't come. Then she called again and he came hesitantly. 'These are the Watsons, Joe," she said. Joe didn't say anything. Im, the woman said, turning to her husband, "I wonder if it wouldn't be better, at our age, to have an older child?" Mary Ellen started a little. It was difficult at best to place an older child. She had never expected anyone to adopt Joe. She looked at the woman who was smiling in such a pleasant sort of way. "But, Molly, you always wanted a little girl," her husband said. He was a pleasant little man with a round, boyish face. It was very plain that he adored his wife. "But he looks so lonesome. And he must be just the age of the Johnson boy next door. They could be pals." Mr. Watson looked at her fondly. "The boy is fine with me," he said. Mary Ellen's eyes were on Joe, wondering what he would do. He stood a moment, the color draining THE HAPPETY ROAD from his face. Then he looked beseechingly at Mary Ellen. "No, thank you," he said, "I want to stay here.", "Oh, I'm so sorry," Mrs. Watson said, "the moment I saw you I was sure you were the one we wanted." She reached out her hand to touch his arm, but he moved away. Everything inside Mary Ellen seemed to be churning. "Joe," she said, "I locked Ginger in his pen. Would you turn him out?" He turned quickly to do as she asked. AFIER he had gone she faced the Watsons apologetically. "I'm sorry. You see Joe is different from the other children. I'm sure he didn't mean to be rude." "Oh, that's quite all right." Mrs. Watson smiled sweetly. "We can wait a few days until he gets used to the idea, couldn't we, Jim?" "Perhaps I can talk to him," Mary Ellen said, "we like our children to go willingly." But she was wondering what she could say. She found him on the garden bench staring into the crab apple wee. He made no sign to acknowledge her presence. Mary Ellen sat beside him, ignoring his silence. "Someone always coming and someone always going,' she mused. "Remember Sue with her golden curls?" She glanced at him, but he paid no heed. "Before you came there was little lame Peter and the twins that we couldn't tell apart." She paused again, but he just sat looking into the apple tree. "They couldn't all stay with us, 85 Joe. Look at the people in the homes, besides us in the orphanage, that they made happy." Suddenly he burst out, "It's not happy out there!" "Why, Joe, many of them have come back to tell me." "No!" he said, excitedly. "It's mean and ugly and." He broke off suddenly. Mary Ellen stared at him. It was the first time, but he must be referring to those dark years before he came to the orphanage. "Believe me, Joe," she said tenderly with her arm around him, "it isn't all that way." She could feel him trembling. "Remember the 'Happety Road,' Joe?" He turned and looked at her sadly. "It's only here that you pretend there are round jolly elves and beetles that laugh." "Joe!" she said. "What do you have to go for?" he demanded suddenly. She hesitated and then answered thoughtfully. "Things change, Joe. It's life. We grow from one thing to another. Neither of us is the same as we were yesterday or last year. Mrs. Bradley will take my place. And then sometime somebody will take hers." He said nothing. "You will come and see me? We'll do lots of things." He smiled a forlorn half smile that she was sure meant nothing. JOE remained in his shell. Twice the Watsons called, but Mary Ellen could only suggest that they wait a little longer. And then it was the last night, and the orphanage was having a party for her. They were gathered 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 on the big green lawn, all the children dressed in their finest clothes, with fancy hats that Mrs. Bradley had helped them make. "Silly old thing," Mary Etlen scolded herself, as she dabbed at her eyes with her handkerchief, 'do you want all these children to see you crying?" With a determined swallow she cleared the lump from her throat. She winked at Jimmie, seated nearby, who grinned shyly and covered his face with his arm to hide an embarrassed giggle. 'Then, parading sprightly around the circle, she patted a head or lifted a chin or tweaked a nose, stopping here and there with some gay remark. "Now, Lula, don't ever let me hear of your sliding down the banister and bumping your knees. It's a long way for me to come hurrying back to take you down the 'Happety Road.' "Benny, no more climbing the crab apple tree. After all, you aren't a monkey because you haven't a tail. "Jerry, be sure you wash your freckles, all of them. No skipping the two under your chin." So she went around the circle. And then she stopped and looked back around it again. "Where is Joe?" she asked. Mrs. Bradley looked around concernedly. "He must not be far away. You know Joe." "He went down the driveway. I looked at him," Lindy said. A feeling of uneasiness spread over Mary Ellen. She quickly put it out of her mind. Joe often walked down the driveway. "Tl catch him watching from behind the crab apple tree," she said to herself. But all through the party she watched in vain for some indication that he was near. Nor was he to be found after the party. Everyone was searching now, all through the garden and the orchard, in the house and the tool shed, and in every possible crack in the playground, but Joe was gone. Mary Ellen sat down on the garden bench with a great heaviness hanging over her. In all her years at the orphanage no child had ever run away. No child had ever wanted to, that she knew of. Outside of the ordinary problems, the children were happy here. Poor little Joe! Would the police be able to find him? Certainly she would never leave until he was found. Y the fourth day Mary Ellen was terrified. "Maybe old Reddy Fox put him in his bag and carried him away like the little Red Hen," Lindy said with wide eves. Mary Ellen smiled faintly at the little girl. "The old fox couldn't get out of the storybook, Lindy," she said, patting the shiny head. But the suggestion sent a chill through her. Joe could have met with foul play. He had never before been away from the orphanage, except with other children under strict supervision. He would not know the dangers of untrustworthy persons. And then he came back. It was the fifth night. Mary Ellen was sitting on the garden bench utterly dejected. It was getting dusk. A stiff breeze had come up, moaning softly in the crab apple tree. Here and there a leaf or petal from a flower went sailing down the driveway. Mary Ellen thought of the THE HAPPETY ROAD night Joe had come, with the leaves blowing and of his frightened little face. Perhaps if she had tried harder to find what lay behind that night at the orphanage door with the meager note, perhaps she could have helped him more. Then, suddenly, she saw him watching her through the branches of the tree. Oe!" she cried, getting to her fect. "Joe, where did you come from? Where have you been?" His clothes were soiled, and his slim face even thinner. "Tm sorry," he said, lowering his eyes, "but I had to go." "You had to go? What do you mean?" "IT had to go out there somewhere.' He looked briefly toward the driveway. "But why?" she asked, bewildered. "I had to find out." "Find out? What — what did you find?" she asked, wonderingly, and pulled him gently down beside her. He smiled. "I found a man with a banana cart. He whistled as he went along. And he gave me a banana. I was very hungry." Mary Ellen wiped the tear quickly from her eye and thanked the banana man silently in her heart. "What else did you find, Joe?" "A — a baby in a buggy in the park by the bushes where I slept. It had a bonnet with a ruffly mbbon. Its mother sat by me on the park bench. And she asked me to watch the baby a minute while she went to get her little boy from the wading pool. The baby laughed when I looked into its face." Mary Ellen wiped her eyes again 87 and whispered a little prayer for babies. "I found some boys playing ball. They needed another player, and they told me to play because I was standing by the fence watching. It was fun." Mary Ellen could no longer stop the tears from streaming down her cheeks. She was glad it was quite dark now. She could only tighten her arm around his shoulder. But, presently, she said, "I'm so glad you went, Joe." "Do you think those Watson people would still like to adopt me?" he asked then. Mary Ellen's heart pounded joyfully. "I'm so sure they would. Only today they called." She started to rise, but he hesitated. "Mary Ellen...." He paused. "Once a long time ago I asked you to sing to me like the other children. But the things I had known were so — so bad, I didn't want to any more. I just always wished it could be true for me like the others.' He turned to her and his eyes were shining in the moonlight. "Could you please just sing me the 'Happety Song?' " "Better than I have ever sung it before, Joe." Then, with her arm around his shoulder she began in her firm, sweet voice, It's wonderful to travel the Happety Road, High up on a rock-a-bye knee. When she came to the Make-itwell Fairy she kissed the top of his head soundly. And then they looked at each other and laughed. Sant tesy Chureh Historian's Office PIONEER CABIN ON TEMPLE SQUARE Temple Square in Salt Lake City Brief History of Its Growth and Development PART IV—MONUMENTS ON THE TEMPLE SQUARE Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian PIONEER HOUSE ERHAPS the oldest exhibit on the Temple Square, except for certain articles in the museum, is the small one-room log house, which stands under an attractive canopy in the southeast corner. We are told that this little cabin was constructed in September 1847, by Osmyn M. Deuel, who came with the pioneers during the first year that a settlement was formed in this valley. It was originally a part of Page 88 the Old Fort, which stood on the block just east of the present Rio Grande depot, where the first houses were erected, but during the 113 years of its existence, it had been moved from place to place in the city, until, finally, it reached its present location, on 'Temple Square. Once it was a home for which the pioneer Deuel family was, no doubt, very thankful. There they found protection from the heat of summer and the cold of winter. I have heard my father say that when his family reached Wellsville, in Cache TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY County, in the fall of 1860, after their long journey from Scotland and erected a crude pioneer log cabin, partly a "dugout," on a hillside, his mother often remarked that "No queen who ever entered her palace was ever happier or prouder of shelter, and the blessings of the Lord, than she was when she entered that completed dugout." Yes, it is a true saying: "Be it ever so humble there's no place like home." MONUMENTS TO JOSEPH SMITH, HYRUM SMITH, AND THE THREE WITNESSES EAR the Pioneer House are lifesize statues of the Prophet Joseph Smith and_ his faithful brother Hyrum, done in bronze, by the gifted Utah sculptor, Mahonri Courtesy Church Historian's Office 89 Young. Of these distinguished men the historian Brigham H. Roberts once said: "On the Temple Square, we have the bronze statue of Joseph, the Prophet of the great, new dispensation of the Gospel; and the same also of his faithful brother Hyrum Smith, standing upon granite pedestals, properly inscribed, declaring their mission and their achievements in the world, so far as those achievements can be briefly stated, saying, doubtless, in the inscription, what the Prophet Joseph would like to say if he could meet face to face the tens and hundreds of thousands of people who read the burning words of truth which God gave him to speak to this generation. "These utterances are recorded upon the bronze tablets, and the MONUMENT TO JOSEPH SMITH, HYRUM SMITH, AND THE THREE WITNESSES 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1961 Prophet is thus voicing forth his message to the world, and though dead, yet speaketh in this memorial of bronze and stone, that loving hands have erected upon this square" (B. H. Roserts, Conference Address, Oct. 4, 1913). A few yards to the east of the statues of Joseph and Hyrum Smith is a monument that was dedicated on April 2, 1927, to honor the Three Witnesses of The Book of Mormon, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris. The dedicatory prayer was offered by President — Heber J. Grant, after which President A. W. Ivins, First Counselor to President Grant, spoke as follows: "He testified that eleven persons saw the plates. Reading the testimony of the Three Witnesses, he told how those testimomies were sustained until the death of the witnesses, in spite of the fact that all three of them, at one time, left the Church. However he said that the contents of the Book of Mormon, and not the testimonies of the witnesses, is the greatest evidence of its divine authorship." President Grant said he was proud of the fact that a Utah man, Avard Fairbanks, was the sculptor of the monument. SEAGULL MONUMENT TANDING near the south gate of ''emple Square is the Seagull Monument, the only monument I have ever seen erected to honor the heroism of birds. The story of the manner in which these graceful and determined little creatures saved the cfOps af the™insr settlers mm Sait Lake Valley —by destroying the myriads of crickets which were Courtesy Church Historian's Office SEAGULL MONUMENT swarming over and devouring the gardens and fields of the pioneers, consuming every green and growing plant, perhaps to leave the people in this isolated valley without sustenance—is a story that will never die. Mahonri Young was the sculptor of this monument. The historian Brigham H. Roberts, once said of the Seagull Monument: "I rejoice with my whole heart, not only in the beauty of that great offering, as a memorial to God for his goodness to our fathers, not only in perfections as a work of art, but I look beyond all that to the thing that it represents — our recognition of God's great goodness in delivering his people from threatened destruction—It will stand, I believe, through many generations, one of the most beautiful, or to memorialize one of the most beautiful incidents in the wonderful experiences TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY of the Latter-day Saints. For indeed Israel was so situated in the summer of 1848, that if God had not wrought out a deliverance for them, then there was nothing but starvation for the people, and reproach to the God of Israel who had brought them to this land. For this reason 91 the Lord no doubt felt himself bound to work out the deliverance which that combination of bronze and stone, stands to memorialize." (Sermon of B. H. Roserts in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, October 4, 1913). (To be continued ) Homecoming Leslie Savage Clark With what glad tenderness the heart Turns toward home to trace Each dear familiar landmark Of that beloved place. So, surely, when the spirit mounts Some vast celestial stair It, too, will find love's welcoming And homeland there. Gdyll Mloment Marie Call Webb To my side has come my love With all the blossoms his hand can hold; The last of the roses and cosmos, Snapdragons and manigold. To my side has come my love, Most carefully and slowly came, His flowers spilling from his hand. He touched my hand and said my name. It is not strange when lovers Bring to lovers flowers, And surely these are fitting To tell of love like ours. For often has my lover come With flowers as his gift for me— I am his wife of years and years, And my love is eighty-three. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1901 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" HOME AND IDEALS: Whether built of logs or marble, be the surroundings picturesque or desolate, a spot marked by squalor or opulence, the four walls of home close in and nurse the best there is in man.... The birds on the garden shrubs unfold their secrets to the growing child, from birds, blossoms, fruit seed, over and again he learns his first lessons of his relation to God and nature. If art reigns in the home there will grow out of it beautiful parks, streets, thoroughfares and cities.... A life consumed by following society's unprofitable and foolish fashions has a parallel in that of a woman who never takes a moment for study and self-improvement but makes herself a very slave to her home. 'The home must be kept sweet and clean but the brain is as prone to get cobwebby as the best room. —Alice Merrill Horne OUR PRINCIPAL MISSION: We are told that our principal mission on this earth is to save souls. Not alone to be saved, but to save others. Saviors upon Mount Zion! It is a term of solemn import. No trifling, no carelessness of purpose nor act should be found in the mature Latter-day Saint. Souls to save! Either by love and service to the living, or by service and love for the dead! Is not that our mission? —Susa Young Gates A FRIENDLY LETTER FROM GLENEYRE, COLORADO: I came up to visit a friend who lives eighty miles from the railroad, we were cut off from all sociability, only within ourselves. 'The wild natural beauty and the spicy breath of pine woods and mountains.... Friendship induced me to come to this romantic spot.... I would I had the gifts to describe the beautiful sunsets, the elevation is 8,500 feet. The house is picturesque, large and roomy, built of logs. Situated aloft on the very summit of a mountain range, yet nestling in the shelter of pine-covered heights, sweeping into circles around it. The little pine gulches put me in mind of "The Deserted Trail': "And half way up there stands all slim and white, A grove of quaking asps, And often there when morn the mountain clasps, I've stood in mute delight. Between each silvery stem you catch a glance Of ranges far and blue, And one great peak that leaps so straight and true, A mighty ice-tipped lance...." —Luella M. Rhodes NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND, RELIEF SOCIETY PARTY: The members of the Nottingham Relief Society held their annual party on Boxing Day, December 26, 1900. A hearty invitation was extended to all. A committee of young ladies was appointed to decorate the room with Christmas decorations, the tables being also tastefully arranged and decorated with flowers and ferns.... About sixty persons sat down and took a hearty meal... A short program was rendered, consisting of an opening address... Songs, duets, etc.... The rest of the evening was devoted to games and various amusements were indulged in to make the evening a success.... Refreshments were also on hand for those who required them, the proceeds of which were to be given to the poor. —Fdith Cable, Sec. Page 92 AURINE NEUBERGER (Democrat), a fifty-three-yearold former school teacher, was elected at the United States November elections, in Oregon, as a Senator, to serve the six-year term, beginning January 1961. She also completed the unexpired term of her late husband, Senator Richard Neuberger who died suddenly in March 1960. She is the third woman to be elected to a full six-year term in the Senate, Mrs. Hattie Caraway, of Arkansas, being the second, and Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith, of Maine, (Republican) the first. Mrs. Smith had served in the House of Representatives from 1940 to 1948, the year of her election to the Senate. In 1960, she opposed a Democrat, Miss Lucia Cormier. This was the first woman-versus-woman senatorial contest in United States history. OMEN elected to the United States House of Representatives are: Democrats: Mrs. Edith Green, Oregon; Mrs. Gracie Pfost, Idaho; Mrs. Iris F. Blitch, Georgia; Mrs. Kathryn E. Granahan, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Martha W. Griffiths, Michigan; Mrs. Elizabeth Kee, West Virginia; Mrs. Edna F. Kelly, New York; Mrs. Julia B. Hansen, Washington; Mrs. Lenor Kretzer Sullivan, Missouri; Republicans: Mis. Katharine St.