What! No Vocation? By Marba C. Josephson
"So you've no work? You're just a housewife?" From house to house the census man makes his rounds with these same words to the woman who as she answers him juggles an infant on her hip, keeps order among her other three babies, and has an eye to the stew which is on the stove.; Well, maybe he's right. I'm certain of one thing: being a house-wife isn't exactly an avocation either.
Dad comes home from the office, weary and ready for diversion. Junior romps in, grabs his hand, and says, "Dance with me; play bear; let's race!" Willingly the Man-boy plays for twenty minutes. "My, I wish I could be with Junior all day. Wouldn't it be fun?" he exults. The only girl (no, it's not his wife now) runs, all smiles and dimples: "Isn't she adorable? She's so lovely; I'd love to play with her all the time."
Oh, yes! But have you ever noticed this same Dad on a Sunday or a holiday? First of all, he's anxious for a little longer sleep than usual. Adorable sister comes to him. "Daddy, daddy, me sleep wif you." Sleepily he mumbles, "Oh, Mary, can't you take Rose in with you and let me sleep a little longer?" A few minutes later Junior rushes at him. "Dad, let's play ball." Impatient gutturals greet the exuberance of Junior. "Now, Junior, you know Daddy has to work hard all week. Let him sleep now. Run and see what Mother's getting for breakfast."
Two meals later, after Mother has sent the children to church, swept and dusted the house, bathed the baby, massaged Dad's thinning hair, Dad booms forth, "When Mother gets ready (which means washing dishes, cleaning up baby and herself, inspecting hands, necks, and ears of the rest of the family—Dad not excluded) we'll all go to the zoo." If Mother dare say, "Please, John, you take them and let baby and me stay home," Dad acts hurt and says, "Why, I should think you'd love to get away from the house for awhile. You should be proud to go with such a fine family." So Mother hastens some more, and when she finally sinks into the car, she feels as if she would never rise again.
After a luxurious walk of two miles in the park-zoo, pointing out bears, lions, tigers, and elephants, and trying to answer semi-intelligently just why bears are bears instead of being lions, Mother notices that: Rose has vanished into thin air. Dad pooh-poohs any idea of her having been killed or kidnaped and says casually, "Mother, you stay right here with the others. I'll be back in a jiffy with Rose." A half-hour passes. Mother is frantic. With baby in her arms, Junior holding her skirt (yes, it's long enough these days), and Phil dragging from Junior's limp clasp she retraces her steps. Nightmares of what could have happened to Rose precede her every footstep. At last she spies her, dancing around her dad, as he talks and laughs with a chance acquaintance. He chats on until Rose, weary of her captivity, WHAT! NO VOCATION? again darts off. Dad catches her and comes to where Mother is vainly struggling to keep the remaining family intact. "Well, now, Mother, you've enjoyed the outing, haven't you?" Dad roars joyously. "Let's buy some ice cream and go home to eat it." Mother thinks, "Wouldn't it be nice if he'd get cones! That would save washing dishes." They arrive home—the children tired, dusty, and hungry; Dad elated at the pleasure he has given; Mother humbly hoping that the children won't have stomach aches during the night from the great number and variety of Dad's treats.
Dad settles down to read a story that one of the fellows told him was the best ever. Junior flip flops over the rug and knocks Dad's book from his hands. "Junior, go to bed now. Mother'll get your pajamas for you." Junior is tired one stubborn, "Aw, do I have to? I don't want to go to bed. Why do I have to?" — Junior goes—prodded on by Dad's ungentle hand. Again Dad settles down, Junior isn't easily quelled, however, and war-whoop succeeds 583 war-whoop until Dad shouts in exasperation, "Can't something be done with that child? He's driving me mad." Mother battles, cajoles, and finally, if peace isn't in the home, at least an armistice has been declared. Mother cleans the dishes, gathers up the clothes, turns off the unneeded lights, and takes one last peek at the babies. As she looks at them —cherubic in their sleep—all her weariness, her feeling of repression vanish—she has been made responsible for these priceless gifts from God. Then she goes into the living-room where John is reading. He surely is handsome and good—the only man in the world. When he, feeling her eyes on him, glances up and says, "Mary, you're wonderful. I'm surely in love with you. You're a marvelous wife and mother," her heart is full to overflowing. When he takes her in his arms and kisses her in the manner of their courting days, she thinks, "Oh, well, who cares about an old vocation, anyway?" And she answers the census man! Serenely, "Yes, no vocation!