My Baby By Josephine Gardner Moench
What, though I passed through the shadow of death, What, though in agony paid, A life brimming over with sunshine and joy Your coming for me has made.
Patterns By A. H. C.
Jim was past sixty, and according to Ma Carlton, was much too old to be learning new tricks. But Anne was insistent. Just because a man had never acquired the habit of putting away his own bedroom slippers or of making himself a ham sandwich was no reason why it couldn't be done.; Now Jim Carlton was fully aware of his principal vice. In his earlier years he had been teasingly admonished by a fond wife, and more recently had been reminded by two daughters with more than playful irony. But Jim had a sense of humor. He did not particularly resent their reproofs, and certainly felt no inclination toward reform. It was his opinion that a man had no business fiddling about the house. Besides, it rather agreed with his sense of proportion to have his clothes put out for him or put away.
"Collar buttons are too darn small to be found in a dresser drawer," he would remark good-humoredly every Sunday morning, and Ma Carlton would bring forth the necessary accessories saying, "Where's your eyes, Jim!" and then, "Hadn't you better wear another tie today, being it's Church you're going to?" To Jim ties were simply ties—a somewhat superfluous appendage. Why should one worry over color or design, as if there weren't plenty of important matters for a man to worry about. Besides, he rather liked her choice; he liked the way she adjusted the tilt of his hat, brushed dust from coat lapels or straightened the knot of his tie. He liked the way she buttered his toast every morning. And though he wore an attitude of calm indifference throughout, the fine lines about his blue eyes contributed to the queer smile which was his only expression of gratitude. Jim never talked much; he was that way. But Mary Carlton understood and did not ask for more.
Then the letter arrived. Amy had been ill and was wondering if 'mother couldn't just spend a month of visiting with her during the summer. Amy was her mother's girl alright—Jim Carlton wiped his eyes and nose with one swish of his handkerchief, pretending a sneeze, as he read the letter. "There ain't no question 'bout it, Ma, you'll have to go."
Mrs. Carlton was more hesitant. For forty years she had lived in Maplegrove, never traveling beyond the limits of the county. For forty years she had managed the Carlton household, attending duties connected with the rearing of six children, and the thought of picking-up and vacating right in fruit-bottling season was a serious one. Besides, who would take care of Jim?
"Why I will, you silly dear," Anne said on her return from college the following week. "But you've promised—" "Course I promised Sal I'd stay nights with her mother while she's away at summer-school. Just nights, Mom—I'll be home most of the day."
Ann propped the hand mirror against a stack of books on the dining table and eyed her face critically. She winced a little as the tweezers brought out a truant hair from her PATTERNS pink lid. Then moistening her forefinger upon her tongue, she ran it smoothingly along the dark brows to their tapering ends.