"Anne, I wish you wouldn't do that. Your eyebrows are plenty good enough as they are." Anne smiled, and with a playful gesture hastened, Now, Mom, you aren't going to be old-fashioned, too. I'd expect it from dad, but you're more modern. Besides, there wasn't a single Frosh who didn't have hers arched just so. It's the mode—the current pattern."
Mrs. Carlton settled helplessly in her chair. How many times in the past two days had she heard those words, "not a single Frosh." "There's simply no use, Anne," she 'said in tones of firm finality, "I can't go to Amy." "Why not?" "Your father's never cooked a meal in his life and he's too old to be learning new tricks.'
"Nonsense, Mother, this idea of being too old to learn things. I've heard of people much older than—" "Was they men folks?" Mrs. Carlton's interruption evinced strong doubt. Anne's laughter was genuine. "Course they were, Mom." Then seriously, "It's merely a matter of mental patterns." "Of what?" "Neural patterns, Mother, over which the response to stimuli must flow," Anne repeated bookishly. "Daddy simply hasn't developed any —not in this field of activity, and being older it will be a little more difficult to establish the pattern. But it can be done."
Mrs. Carlton eyed her daughter skeptically above the silver rims of her spectacles. Patterns! Could it be that Anne was a little—no, she couldn't allow such a thought. Still the older children had never gotten 589 such ridiculous stuff at high school. "Well anyway,' Anne went on, "We'll apply the stimulus by letting the gentleman in question get his own breakfast. After a few trials, he'll form the necessary pattern and the trick's done."
"I'm sure I don't know what on earth you're talking about, Anne, but I'd be tempted to go if I thought he'd do it, and not go down to the Seed Store every morning without a bite. Your father's not so young now and it seems to me he's been losing weight this spring."
"Bunk. You're stewing, Mom. If you've pictured coming home after two months to find Dad a walking skeleton, please turn the slide. I. Wager he'll be as weighty as ever when you return."
"You don't know your father like I do—he simply isn't handy about the house. And I've often said he'd starve most to death with bread in the can if there wasn't someone there to fix it for him."
"He's always had you here to do the fixing, that's the trouble."
"Yes, me or the girls."
"He likes it,; Mom. He's got a complex for having you baby him."
"A what?"
"An over emphasized mental pattern, my dear," Anne said, glorying in the display of her newly acquired scholastic information. "Inhibited here and overdeveloped there."
More patterns! Mrs. Carlton groped helplessly in the maze of unheard of phraseology. "Putting all these pattern things aside, do you suppose, Anne, that you could get things ready for your father's breakfast?"
"Sure I could—put the krispies on the table every night."
"And an egg, Anne — they're nourishing." She hesitated. 'Sounds impossible, Anne, but your father's never fried an egg in his life."
"He doesn't need to fry them, boiling's easier. I'll put one in the kettle every night." Anne was not to be defeated by so frail an argument. "You're not going to stay at home, Mary Elizabeth Carlton, on account of a silly old egg."
"If I was just sure he'd do it, Anne."
"Of course he will, just leave it to me to establish a pattern for boiling eggs."
It was evident from the tone of her voice, that Mrs. Carlton was weakening in the direction of personal desire. She wanted the vacation, wanted to see Amy, her eldest daughter, and after all, Anne must be right. It wasn't so difficult to get a bit of breakfast if things "was set."
And such a trip it was for Mary Carlton—this riding in a fast train in which beds were made by joining seat backs together! She wasn't so sure she liked the idea of sleeping in a stuffy car with so many folks, and porters rummaging around among the baggage. A telegram from Amy informed Jim of Mrs. Carlton's safe arrival, and thereafter came frequent missives describing the wonders of the coastal metropolis. Such ships! And such unbelievably high buildings! Jim would just have to see them himself. But always there was anxiety concerning Jim's breakfast. Anne's reply was crisp—telegraphic. "Don't worry, Mom. Dad's fine. Consumes egg daily. Moreover, he's become a real asset. To kitchen management, even clears dishes away. The pattern is firmly established."
Three weeks later Mary Carlton returned. Jim met her at the station and they rode home in the old Ford. Jim was more talkative than usual—he had missed her alright. Heaven only knew how he had counted the weeks, but as Mrs. Carlton eyed him critically she knew that Anne was right. "I win, don't I?" from Anne the next morning as she teasingly kissed her mother's flushed cheeks. "But proof of the pudding's in the tasting. Dad's going to boil the eggs this morning, aren't you, Dad?" Jim's face took on a peculiarly whimsical expression — an expression akin to humor but mingled with disapproval as if he were being forced to reveal a secret he had preferred keeping to himself. "T'm afraid you wouldn't... That is..." "Course you can suit us. You know it all—boiling water — gas turned off. Why, you've done it all summer." "I'm not quite sure you folks'd like them the way I've done them all summer." He ran his fingers through his thinning gray hair. "You see, I didn't cook them eggs at all. They're darn good jest beaten up well, with a sprinkle of salt!'