Crying for Nothing By Eva Wangsgard "OUT of the mouths of babes and sucklings cometh forth wisdom," quoted my father who was a small town lawyer but a truly great psychologist. I was worried about my first baby and had asked his advice. In those days, the family physician could tell a mother what to do for an ill baby but was utterly indifferent if she asked him about the care of a well one. I had just received a pamphlet from the state health department informing me that a babe of that age should be on a three hour schedule and ours was on a two hour one. Father said, "Study the baby. He came to you with all the wisdom of the ages behind him. Study the child. Find out what is natural. Then see that it is done. It will be correct if you yourself do not pervert it." His advice proved so valuable physically that I used it, as a foundation policy, in the psychology of child training, both physical and mental. Consequently, the children have taught me many things I have never read in books. One such instance I record here. Jenay was only twenty-two months when she came into the kitchen where I was peeling potatoes and asked, "Please, mother, may I have a piece of potato?" Fearing she might choke on the raw vegetable, I said, "No, you don't like them." "But I do," she insisted. "Oh! I think not. Open the drawer. There's a cracker in there you may have." She found the cracker, climbed upon a chair and ate it all. Then, emptying her small apron of crumbs into the coal skuttle, asked, 'Please mother, may I have a piece of potato?" "No," I answered, "You had the cracker." "But the cracker's all gone." "Yes, but you had it." "Then I'll cry," she said. Surprised at such tactics, I exclaimed, "All right! Cry if you like. Let's hear how loud." Now it was her turn to be astonished and she said, "I can't. I can't do it. I can't cry for nothing," and tossing her small head in the air she walked out. Could a sage have said that more aptly? That lesson was learned. Years later when we could no longer finance the dancing lesson of which she was so fond she still knew better than to "cry for nothing." The difficulties of the last few trying years have been greatly lessened by that knowledge. Truly, "Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings cometh forth wisdom." Let us use it.