[The One Hundredth Anniversary of the Founding of the University of Utah by Vesta P. Crawford]

Hundredth Anniversary of the Founding —_ of the University of Utah (1850-1950) NE hundred years have passed since the General Assembly of the State of Deseret passed a resolution founding a university in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. The time was only three years after the first pioneers drove their covered wagons through the portals of Emigration Canyon and beheld the valley of promise before them. Our pioneer forefathers, who had already established a university in their beloved Nauvoo, set themselves to build an institution of learning in the western wilderness. In the midst of poverty, insecurity, and the exacting labors of conquering a desert land, they looked well to the future and laid the foundation for a university which has grown to large stature and ranks high among American institutions of learning. In the interval between 1850 and 1950, men of intellectual strength and broad vision have presided over the university and directed its advancement. Orson Spencer was appointed as the first chancellor and was followed by John R. Park, the first president, who served twentythree years and willed to the university his entire estate, including a 4,000 volume library. Our own beloved apostle, James E. Talmage, a world-renowned scholar, served as president four years and resigned at the time of his selection as a member of the Council of the Twelve. He was followed by Joseph T. Kingsbury, a scientist, who became president in 1897. John A. Widtsoe, now a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, also served as president of the university, which: attained high standards of scholarship and influence under his leadership. George 'Thomas, an able and experienced educator, followed President Widtsoe and, in turn, was suc-.
Ceeded by LeRoy E. Cowles, whose administration was marked by the establishment of many new departments. Since 1946, A. Ray Olpin, who completed his undergraduate work at Brigham Young University, 316 has presided over the University of Uah, directing the institution in a period of rapid expansion. The centenary observance which took place in February was an occasion for remembering the struggles and achievements of the past and a dedication to future progress.
Many distinguished visitors attended the celebration and thousands of alumni returned to the campus. An outstanding feature of the occasion was the academic procession, which was followed by a convocation in beautiful Kingsbury Hall. At this meeting, President George Albert Smith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was honRELIEF SOCIETY ored by the conferring upon him of the honorary degree of Doctor of Humanities. In presenting the degree to President Smith, Dean Meredith Wilson read, in part:

He has helped to build a living economy, devoted years to the handicapped, kept alive a devotion to the ideals and achievements of the pioneers, and invested his best efforts in the leadership of tomorrow. A prophet to the members of his Church, a counselor, and friend to all, being a servant of all men, he is in truth, a man of God. For this lifetime of devoted service to the welfare of his fellow men, I recommend that he be awarded the degree of Doctor of Humanities. . . .

—V. P. C.