[Vol37 | May 1950 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: 321 Skirt Hangers in a Jiffy | Author: Rachel K. Laurgaard]
hangers. Randy tried to fix Richard's shirt which was dislodged when he took off his overcoat. Miss Carroway assigned everybody seats on the platform. We couldn't see Susan. "Isn't your niece going to be here?" Richard planted himself in front of Miss Carroway. "Of course," said Miss Carroway, who kept dashing back and forth very busily. "She's going to be in the audience. Everyone ready now?" We lined up. The audience clapped politely as we went onto the platform. My program was wrinkled ' took it over to him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 from my damp hand. Richard wadded his into a ball. We stared out at the audience. I picked out Mama and Papa. Papa was staring back hard at us; then 'I noticed he was staring at Richard. Papa looked very flustered. I looked at Richard. He looked quite odd in Papa's dress shirt. Richard had to keep pushing it up because of the large neck size. Papa leaned over and said something to Mama; she shook her head and frowned. She didn't look at us at all. Miss Carroway was announcing that the program was to be carried out as written on the programs. Then the music began. The less advanced students played first. We had our pieces memorized, but Richard kept looking at his piece which he had brought to review until the last moment. He also kept searching the audience. The door at the back of the hall 'finally opened, and Susan Carroway slipped in. A tall man in a tweed overcoat followed. They sat in seats at the rear. Richard straightened up, stared wildly, and then slumped back in his seat. Randy and I both had to poke him when it was his turn. He went awkwardly to the piano and slouched on the seat. He began, stumbled, and came to a halt. He had forgotten! Randy picked up his music and "What's the matter with you?" she hissed. Richard scowled at her and opened his music. I looked at Papa who had slid way down so I could hardly see him. Mama had fixed her eye on a chandelier. Richard began again and went THE RECITAL clear through without a mistake. I played and then Randy, and at last it was all over. Mama and Papa came up to us. "That was fine," said Papa heartily. 'Richard, why don't you put on your overcoat? Ready to go, girls?" We were. It was fun now that it was all over. Susan Carroway made her way up to the front where we were. She brought the tall man with her. "My fiance," she explained. "Why, where is Richard?" He had slipped back into the cloak room. I I went for him. "You have to come out, Richard," I said. Richard came out. "You played very well," said Susan smiling, and she shook hands with him. Richard looked very stiff and pale, but he shook hands. 303 "Well," said Papa when we were all going home, "what kind of sundaes do you want?" We chose hot fudge, but Richard didn't say anything. "Richard?" asked Papa. "Not any kind," said Richard, but when we drove up, he said maybe he'd have a fudge one. Mama let us have a brief holiday from practicing the piano, and then we had to start again. Thump, thump, went Richard doing his scales. "T'm glad there won't be another recital for a whole year," said Mama. "Me too," said Richard tiredly, stumbling over his new piece, keepine one eye on the clock. He was back to practicing one half hour a day. She Childless