[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: HEPHZIBAH. | Author: Unknown]

HEPHZIBAH.
				XVII.

	'Tis early morn and thro' the air there floats,
		Odors of pine woods rich and rare perfume;
	The birds are pouring forth their sweetest notes
		And fresh young buds are bursting into bloom.

	After Hepsie’s brief conversation with the
trustee, she thought it necessary in view of her
engagement to teach, to put on a more serious
air, and deport herself in a womanlyfashion;
just turned fifteen, still in short dresses, and
always among the rocks and brooks and orchards,
shadowy lanes and singing birds were her
chief attractions, but she took in the situation
and resolved to put off childish ways, and be-
gin a new page in her history. She examined
her slender wardrobe and reported to her
mother concerning her wearing apparel.
	"I have two or three French cambrics and
muslins that will be light and dainty for
summer wear, if the skirts can be lengthened
a trifle, and with new ribbons, laces and gloves
I can do very well for a few weeks," suggested
Hepsie, "and I shall have my own money soon
you know and can buy what I like."
	"That is all right my little daughter, but I've
been thinking over a much more serious
matter, and it puzzles me somewhat I must
confess."
	"What is it mother, can I help you is it
about going to Nauvoo because I am in no
hurry, I should like to try teaching nearer
home at first."


[column 1]
	"It is about the certificate from the minister,
you understand that although we are such
near neighbors and friends, he has never spoken
to me since the day you were baptized, he
does not consider Mormons upright and moral
you know."
	“And that is more than a year now, and
living next house but one; well he must give
me the certificate there is no reason why he
should not and if he refuses I’ll ask the Squire
his word is as good."
	“He hates Mormons just as much as the
minister does and his wife is far more bitter
than dear Mrs. M. in fact I do believe she
would have been a believer in our doctrines
but for his forbidding her to attend the meet-
ings;" said Mrs. H. in reply.
	There is no time to lose" said Hepsie I'll
go this very day, there is nothing like trying
I do not believe in failure." Mrs. H. knew
better than Hepsie how bitter the prejudice
was in the little village for she had felt it
more keenly, since the larger number of con-
verts, had loft for Nauvoo, and one obstacle
after another had come in her way to prevent
her selling out and going where she could be
among the saints and have congenial society.
	Hepsie carried out her intention; she hastened
immediately to the minister's cottage, and
Mrs. M. who was in the front yard among the
lilacs welcomed her most tenderly. "So glad
to see you Hepsie, you are back from school,
have you finished?" Before Hepsie could
answer she asked a half a dozen more questions
and invited her in, but Hepsie declined saying
she had so much to do, and had come over on
purpose to see the minister.  "Tell me first
said Mrs. M. eagerly how is your mother, for
I have the most profound respect for her and
admiration of her moral courage in maintaining
her position in the faith for which she has
made such sacrifices."
	Hepsie realized the truth of these words and
knew they came from the heart, with tears in
her eyes and thanking Mrs. M. for her sympathy
she followed the good lady to her husband's
study and was ushered into the august presence
of the Reverend man. "Miss Hathaway, Hepsie"
he said as he rose from his table to meet the
girl pale and trembling, "have you come back
repentant to ask advice?"
	"O, no, I have come on quite a different
matter, it is to ask for a certificate from you
of moral character, I am engaged to teach at
Beechwoods and shall need one."
	The minister was like one bewildered, "teach,"
said he, "you are only a child yourself and
much in need of being taught, you astonish
me, a young girl in short dresses and a Mormon
asking for a certificate to teach, you will not
be allowed to promulgate any of your Mormon,
doctrines in a New England school." "O, as
to that I know so little myself that would be 
quite impossible," replied Hepsie.
	It is the more fortunate for you, that you
know so little but I must consult with 'Squire
W. about the certificate I'm not sure it would be
the proper thing to do. I was in hopes you
would come home after a year's absence among
Christian people with a change of heart and
convert your mother from the errors into
which she has fallen and become a member of
the Church in which you might have such a
great and powerful influence, that needs the
help and support of just such refined and
educated young women." "All this time
poor Hepsie was trembling and shivering, not
speaking out as she would have done had
she not wanted the certificate. Her heart
was bursting with indignation, yet she must
not be in the least seemingly disrespectful,
lest she should lose the little item on paper
that was to be so much to her. Finally after
more pressing interrogatories, and assurances
from Mrs. M. that she would get the certificate
the next day, she began to be more self-
[column 2]
possessed, and turned to leave the study, when
the minister broke out anew in the most ex-
cited way, "how is it that your people have
taken away more than half of my congrega-
tion? Your mother is at the bottom of all
this, she is the strong pillar of Mormonism in
this place, and you could influence her per-
haps to give up this nonsense about going to
Nauvoo, and the village might become more
flourishing, as it was before those ranting
Mormon Elders came here in November two
years ago."
	Hepsie appreciated fully the embarrassment
of the situation, she could not retaliate, not
even defend her own mother; she saw that
Mrs. M. understood her difficulty and she
knew her to be such a strong minded thorughly
good woman, that it was some relief to think
she would be stoutly defended if she could
once getaway. She tried to say "good morn-
ing" in the midst of the minister's harangue,
but it was quite impossible.
	Mrs. M. put a stop to the scene at last by
saying, "Husband you can scarcely be aware
how you are wounding the feelings of this
dear child; she is not answerable for any of
the mistakes made by the Mormons and has
had nothing to do with their leaving to go
to Nauvoo. Its all folly to talk in that way, 
she came for a certificate and ought to have
it at once."
	By this time Hepsie was in tears, one great
sob after another had welled up until she could
no longer control her emotions.  Mrs. M. put
her arms around her tenderly and said "poor
child, never mind come with me, you shall
have the certificate now," and they left the
study together. Once out of the minister's
presence Hepsie ceased sobbing and Mrs. M.
leaving her alone returned to the study; five
minutes after she came in with the little slip
of white paper on which a few words were
written and signed by Edward Morton D. D.,
Mrs. M. handed the certificate to her and said
while entwining her in her arms, "you are a
brave girl and deserve success, you know how
to control yourself and that is a great thing
in a teacher; I shall be proud to hear you have
done well and I am sure you will."  Then
followed the usual good byes and "remember
me to your dear mother," and Hepsie flew
down the yard and out into the great wide
road. She could not go home until she re-
covered her composure, her mother must not
know what had transpired.  The fresh morn-
ing air soon cooled her heated brow and when
she came in to her mother's room shortly after,
no one would have guessed the struggle she had
gone through.  She held up the paper and
Mrs. H. inquired, "How did the minister re-
ceive you and how is his wife and family?
Did he demur at all because you were a Mor-
mon?"
	"Not exactly" replied the girl "he talked
about seeing the 'Squire first but Mrs. M. in
sisted on my not having to wait."
	"Very kind of her," replied the mother
"she is much superior to him in nobility of
character and in personal attainments; they
could never live on the salary he receives if
she were not always economizing and helping
in various ways."
	"I'm sorry for her and for all minister's
wives that I've ever seen, the husband gets
the honor and the wife contrives to manage
the house and does half the brain work; the
best half too; I hope if I ever marry it will
not be a minister," Hepsie retorted sharply.
	"I hope you'll marry a Mormon Elder and
devote your life and talents to the Latter-day
work," said Mrs, H. enthusiastically.
	"Wait until we go to Nauvoo mother, I
shall not marry until I'm twenty-one or more;
my guardian would not allow it you know, and
he'll stop my going to Nauvoo if he can; I
[column 3]
have never even hinted such a thing to him,
have you mother?"
	"No Hepsie, but I shall not brook any in-
ference in that matter."
	Here the conversation ended either mother
or daughter little realizing what lay before
them in the near future. Preparations were
hurriedly made for Hepsie and on Monday
morning, the open carriage came to convey her
to Beechwoods.
	Her heart was in a great flutter, but her
mother knew it not, outwardly she was cool
and dignified—and away she went to pass the
trying ordeal of a specific examination. She
had no idea what questions would be asked nor
who would be present. The little wagon drew
up in front of an old farm house, she recalled
in a moment as the residence of the trustee, the
front door opened and in a moment more she
was ushered into an old-fashioned square
parlor, where sat in state awaiting her Mr.
Merriam himself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


