[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Honorary President
of the N. W, S. A., and one of the most
famous women of our time, perhaps the
most renowned, was celebrated in Wash-
ington, D. C, on Thursday, February 15,
and on the same day a committee from
the N. W. S. A., of whom she had charge
had a hearing before the Woman Suffrage
Committee of Congress. Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. Joseph Howell, of
Utah were among the number.

[Column 2]
	An excellent illustrated article of Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift appeared in the Feb-
ruary number of “The Ladies Review.”
Mrs. Swift is the president of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United
States; she is a very handsome woman of
high cultivation, has refined taste and an
excellent heart, she is just and upright in
character, and is a humanitarian in prin-
ciple. Her history as told is extreme-
ly interesting, but that which is untold
must be even more delightful. She is
fearless for the right, a staunch suffra-
gist, and withal a woman in whom to re-
pose confidence without doubts of her
untrustworthiness.
	At last a woman has argued a case be-
fore the supreme court of the United
States, and the roof of the old senate
chamber, where the court meets in Wash-
ington, has not fallen in. Women began
to be admitted as practitioners in the su-
preme court many years ago, but no wo-
man has ever stood up and conducted
one of these animated conversations with
the big gentlemen in black gowns which
is called arguing a case in the supreme
court room. It fell to the lot of Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the pioneer woman
lawyer in Washington, to perform this
feat, and she is said to have acquitted
herself well.—Hartford Times.
	The Executive session of the National
Council of Women will be held in Toledo,
Ohio, the first week in April. Sunday
evening, April 1st, there will be religious
exercises, President Mary Wood Swift
presiding; distinguished speakers will ad-
dress the meeting. Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday morning will be executive
sessions for the transaction of business.
Afternoon sessions will be given to reports
or papers from affiliated societies. The
evening programs will be arranged by the
Local Council of Toledo under the super-
vision of Mrs. Pauline Steinem. Promin-
ent speakers will address these meetings
and the public is invited to be present.
Mrs. Steinem is one of the most charming
women we have ever met, brilliant, logi-
cal, affable and altogether lovable.
	The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its 38th Annual Convention in
Baltimore, Md., this year, from Wednes-
day, Feb. 7th to 13th inclusive. Susan
B. Anthony, Pioneer suffragist and Hon-
orary President, was present and partici-
pated as usual, though the Associated
Press has not sent much news of the pro-
ceedings westward. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Utah Suffrage or-
ganization, is in Baltimore, and will ably
represent Utah in all movements for ad-
vancement of the cause of women. She
has been for many years engaged in the
work and is thoroughly qualified. We
hear she has been joined in Baltimore by
Mrs. Joseph Howell and Mrs. John Henry
Smith.
	Mrs. Mary E. Howell, wife of our Utah
representative in Congress, Hon. Joseph
Howell, gave an elegant reception at
their residence in Washington, D. C.,
1828 Calvert street, on the Heights. Mrs.
Howell was assisted by her sweet daugh-
ter, Mrs. Lewis T. Cannon. “Mrs. How-
ell wore a handsome costume of black
lace over white silk, and Mrs. Cannon


was pretty and attractive in a toilette of
white silk. There were ices and other
dainties served amidst an atmosphere
of hospitality and homeness. Mr. and
Mrs. Cannon have two interesting young
hopefuls to add greater vitality to the
bright family circle of Mr. and Mrs. How-
ell. Mrs. Howell will receive again early
in February.” At a recent levee at the
White House, among the guests were
Representative and Mrs. Howell, Senator
and Mrs. Heyburn, Mr. and Mrs. Cannon,
also Senator Warren of Wyoming.


