[Column 1]
EFFORT MAY OVERCOME ENVIRON-
			MENT.
	In dealing with a text so sweeping in
its assertiveness, one is met on the
threshold of its consideration by a ques-
tion of its truth, to those who have stood
face to face with the problems of life, and
have battled with its difficulties, winning
after the utmost effort but a partial suc-
cess; who have witnessed the struggles of
friends and neighbors as they, too, have
sought to shape circumstances to their
needs; and have seen them go down to
defeat, such an assertion may seem but
a mockery of their distress, and yet there
is much to sustain the assumption. No
good, great or small, has ever been ac-
complished but by effort. But for effort,
man would yet be housed in the caves of
the earth, disputing with the beasts of the
forests his right to supremacy. Every ad-
vance in the fields of intelligence and civ-
ilization has been won only by long con-
tinued effort and perseverance. The
struggle upward, from darkness into
light, has been long and tedious, the way
beset with difficulties; but little by little
the advance has been made, the mind has
b[-]en developed and the earth subdued;
education has widened the field of oppor-
tunity, science has lain bare the secrets of
the heavens, art and industry have filled
the world with beauty and comfort, and
we of today are enjoying the fruits of the
efforts, and successes, of the toilers of the
past. Every victory gained brings to view
others to be won.
	The world is still progressing, and will
continue to do so; it is for us to say,
whether we shall go on with it to its ulti-
mate destiny, as a fit dwelling place for
the Master, or, allowing ourselves to fall
behind, be pushed aside, forgotten or de-
spised.
	Work is one of the first great laws of
the universe, we cannot escape its man-
dates; then if we must labor, let us look
well to the manner of its performance.
“What is worth doing at all is worth
well doing.” Let us train our hands to
skilled and practical industry, cultivate
our minds and train them to do their best.
Brains grow strong by use. If we would
have strong minds, we must put them to
right thinking. If we would succeed we
must be sure our efforts are well directed.
If our desires are great, let us see that
they are such as God and conscience can
approve; then bend our energies to their
attainment, stand firm and persevere,
learn to labor and to wait. It required
the labor of thousands of men through
many years to complete the Pyramids of
Egypt, but they stand today, after the
lapse of centuries, a wonder of the world,
and a monument to the industry and per-

[Column 2]
sistent effort of the toilers whose weary
hands have long since crumbled to dust.
	Little by little by little the ant builds
his home, gathering his material by slow
degrees, here a tiny pebble, there a twig
or glittering fragment; toiling early and
late, never counting fatigue, pushing aside
obstacles. overcoming difficulties and
teaching by his silent industry a lesson of
persevering effort. Shall we who boast
superior intelligence be content with less
success?
	Character is either the stepping-stone
to success or the stumbling-block over
which we trip and go down to defeat.
Every man and every woman is the build-
er of his or her character. As we build
so shall the structure stand.
	If our characters be strong, we shall not
falter mid the trials and battles of life;
but be our station high or low, will strug-
gle on to perfection in our sphere.
	Life at best is but a continual warfare
of the good and bad within our breasts;
let us be valiant in upholding the right.
	It requires as much courage to meet the
little trials of daily life as would be nec-
essary to lead an army up to the firing
line; and not all of the heroes are to be
found on the field of battle.
	Every morning brings a renewal of op-
portunity. Every day is a little life, and re-
peated days make up the cycle of the years;
as our days are spent, so shall the years
be counted, and their record stand through
time and eternity.
	Let us seek for contentment with our
surroundings; it matters not so much
where we are as what we are; not so
much what our life’s duties may be as
how we discharge the obligations. God
created all things, great and small, let us
honor His work by respecting ourselves.
	Better be a little mountain daisy, lend-
ing grace and sweetness to some barren
hillside, than a gorgeous rose lost mid a
maze of beauty in a garden of flowers.
There is no environment so undesirable
that we cannot profit by its lessons and
better its conditions.
	If we wish for hlgher places, let us fit
ourselves to fill and adorn them.
	The great men of our country, those
who have outlined its policies and shaped
its destinies–– Webster, Clay, Jackson,
Lincoln and many others–– were almost,
without exception, of poor and obscure
parentage; yet by personal effort and
force of character, they rose to greatness
and power, and while the nation stands
their names and deeds will shine as a bea-
con light to struggling ambition.
	The conditions surrounding the early
settlers of these valleys and the whole
west, emphasize the fact that effort not
only may but has overcome environment.
Who that considers the struggles of those
first great pioneers, in their efforts to
redeem the desert wastes, can doubt its
truth? But for their courage and perse-
verance this fertile valley would still be
unreclaimed, a rendezvous for roaming
bands of Indians.
	All about us is nature in her sublimest
aspect; every day she is giving forth in-
spiration in sunshine and shade, in cloud
and shadow. The mountains are calling
to us to “come up higher,” shall we be
content to grovel at their feet, mere plod-
ders in the ruts of ignorance and sloth?
	There is no age limit set for the ac-
quirement of knowledge. “Never too old
to learn” is a well worn saying but a true

[Column 3]
one. Gladstone, England’s greatest mod-
ern statesman, began the study of a for-
eign language when nearly eighty years of
age, and mastered it so well that he was
enabled to win a great diplomatic victory
for his country over a hostile rival. Never
give up to the advancing years; we are
just as old as we think ourselves to be.
There will always be something for us to
do; let us keep up the fight as long as we
can. Better die with a new task unfin-
ished than sit idle, too timid to begin.
	If we would accomplish anything
worth while, we must bring faith and
courage to our task. He who only half
tries will but half succeed; if after we have
done our best failure comes, let us not be
discouraged, resistance will but strengthen
the sinews for greater effort. Do not fear
to stand alone. The tree forced to meet
the wind, but sinks its roots deeper into
the soil, and stands firm for repeated
blasts.
	If we go to the highest peak in our
lofty mountains, there, on its bleak brow,
we shall find the Pinion Pine, far below,
are his more timid kindred of the forest,
clinging to favored places, sheltered on
sunny slopes from the chilling winds,
and drawing nourishment from the yield-
ing soil, while he, aspiring to loftier place,
strikes for the summit, and wrapping the
forbidding rocks with his roots, struggles
upward to his goal. The winds roar fierce-
ly about him, shriek through his scanty
branches, and toss his defiant plumes,
they but increase the tension of his
gnarled roots, and, bending his trunk to
meet the rocks, he mounts steadily up-
ward till his pinion sweeps the arching
skyline, and he stands supreme, king of
the mountains.
	As in nature so in human affairs, it is
ever the brave and enduring who win in
the race.
	Should the winds of adversity assail you,
		Or storms beat in fury where you tread,
	Should friends grow cold or desert you,
		Be not dismayed, there is light overhead.
	’Tis easy to drift with the shore tide,
		It takes courage to breast the wave,
	Better fall where the battle is fiercest
		Than sink in a coward’s grave.
