UNIQUE PARTY.
	The General Officers and Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. entertained in a most
pleasing and hospitable manner the Gen-
eral Officers and Board of the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association at the
residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall on
West Temple St., where very many not-
able gatherings have been held, from
time to time for years past.
	The party was given as a tribute of re-
spect and honor in memory of two of the
most illustrious women in Church history
and who have each of them occupied the
position of “Elect Lady” in the Relief
Society, Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. H. Young, whose names are coupled
together as household words through-
out all modern Israel.
	The desire of those now living who
knew these veteran sisters intimately, is
to keep their memories fresh and green
in the hearts of the younger generation,
that they may not only honor their
names, but follow in their footsteps, re-
membering that these heroines “blazed
the way” for the grand opportunities
open to them and those who follow after.
There are many others whose names we
mention with reverence, but these two
lives were closely blended and anniver-
saries of their birth come in the same
month. Sister Eliza R. Snow was born
Jan. 21, 1804, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young Jan. 31, 1821. Therefore, it
seemed a very fitting thing to meet in
memory of both between the two dates.
	Ceneral President Martha H. Tingey of
the Young Ladies’ Associations, ap-
pointed an able committee to take charge
of the program, Sisters Minnie J. Snow,
Julia A. Brixon and Joan Campbell.
	About fifty or more guests were gath-
ered at 2 p. m., the appointed hour, and
as a prelude to the opening the hymn by E.
R. Snow, “O, awake my slumbering min-
strel, was sung, young Mrs. Tuddenham
leading. General President, (really the
hostess of the occasion) made an informal
address of welcome that drew all hearts
towards her in sympathy and love for the
great loss she had so recently sustained in
the death of her beloved mother, Sister
M. Isabella Horne, who had always on
like occasions been present, and taken an
active part, a woman of affairs, both spir-
itual and temporal. General President
Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, responded
in behalf of the Relief Society, and spoke
in endearing terms of Sister Eliza R. and
Zina D. with whom she had been asso-
ciated and labored for so many years,
and rejoiced in meeting with those she
met here. General President Louie B.
Felt responded feelingly in behalf of the
Primary Association and paid a glowing
tribute to the women who had helped


